Seventh plenary meeting
21 October 1974 at 3,20 p,m,  President: Mrs, JOBORU (Hungary)  Septième séance plénière
21 octobre 1974, à 15 h. 20  Présidente : Mme JOBORU (Hongrie)  Séptima sesiôn plenaria
(20481) spon Taal: Aus)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)  OBCY XJIEHHE BONPOCOB OBMEI MNONHTHKH (npononxenne)  (belt dast.
1. The PRESIDENT:  The meeting is called to order. The first speaker is H. E. Mr. Feysal Ibn AU Al-Seid, head  of the delegation of Oman.  eleuhle) dune JT bom Jad aed — 1)  ART last Goll ddl San  PENN URRECC b Are JVI ON | DET WI J [SUIS SREP EES PCL Ip WS SIL SE O8  RI CLJRE: PRTC JU Su JSR I dupe ais  RTI RPI COL TORR FN  Sa IS ep Ld raat aed LA) SA, Sadly pu Y Roll ads atl gai YS  REVS. A fol cs WT: 90 | J WEY WV J BRUIT IF) I OPC ROPER  ode US JM adi lin J AB) 1 Lady bho pai Noy pond 011 Rad Sune — VON
(5—eisdly god bpd peo oo Lan of oz gd pl Baa (JU Loy by ds) 5  Lit rap debs V1 buis Ait ais (JL Gyo 5 hope Laally plane pba  ole Violen Lua «31 dmlegd Goda lized goes Segall dude pis à JL JULIE 5 YAJI,
50 AÏN aan ly,  +55 Bipaally pal p55 ÿ AO dupe on Spd IL Se 0) OF oe fF phi Ÿ — or  abo dy a Ls SU cle 5 Lsoby Lipesiag Lae clay ols pla ole  el_ze¥l JS Ad gl, 3h subi gel pes o 354 ap oe whadl sad L So!  tilly edly OB Land Badly Lal pole (a2 Godly 0 Geely pala Jak  pela ablicuy pUIVL pdasdl 5 petty poially dybially pedals pedadl lusty LSE palais  Api poll Leb (2) à ud alle Le Bmp pag Boaied ol NR IPI Ml 50e — OC  y AL pese Wall We Les buis pays pe die dod Lag Jo uae!  «XL
135   tS phil Je (JB — vo  pS jure (vr) GM VAY pl SSA Go le BE (NV) on plu vue dol  fravo/yg ple all  Nad (1004) oI 1ave 1a pl SAU Nad (NC) or Reb) Said vus Md phy —  fyavo sve ple bil pSal Ll  yore pls aly WE (sy rvy) of raver 61 cl (420) oe Rd ous By —  Last J Tp DS 85  MYo/Ye pl gb (Tree) GM AY NAN pb (ve) or Gr lV ls pedal sas dsl —  > JAIN JETIF SLUM | pL psd Lis Bs! stad oR yavy pb du halt ob — V1
8 LL eus FR IT J WPA 1  took L prête pl bin ale JS edi Yap ums pat GE (1) — To)  € pelailly Royal Bly BLL! Boge VI Gili (ubizy peu —  ool deal Warlzly maid) JF à cel lai peladdl Slue¥ sen Slut -  f atlas Yl  ily HSA Lo unter JUS SNA Beebe VE galls gual) poe LET —  cht elo Ïlänalasdl @hledl 6 SU SY das Leu Gall eb  Voy whine ppl oF REVUE NA oll Beal, CI AIN lag on piss 6 Rg ell  eh 0558N JPEN 5 TN PX SFU PU past) BELTS WP OY SRR IY) J  f adbsn close 155 30d wlye o wel pt ibs (VL als,  élit elu clay Go geaniadly thal SUIS Gr AT plan l OG —  s hylls pedal SU cites Ÿ Mal ha Jl J Besa  tol Etes lanl Ges pha) ey Jby pr ue Less GL Jd (Y) — VON)
1 saad! gy 2d! o Iyladl path le lle LA 47 edad NUSPORL VU) UND oR  Caplan) pall aed) phil pig Reh udl Labs ube —  $f pdadll Les hs Jeol —  Dpt Rett wl aally Bey along) AJ ol ally dal cités 8 pale ps —  | f Llane Ciba ap II  Bel Gall Gp! Sabin) 6005 Ly ane Lege US plais Te Vi god aly (J pill nn  cieoldly Bell clus! pe pla  onl adipaly ato Yh ade pd ops gl y AU 51, GB (J SFR É vena (FP) — VON
136   Ltd aps aus Luly à aelplly ag leally dwsbiall Lely! Gliding ated] dost)  ST  | I.  Lows obsinhle J palastl Sl ge AA la de way vsel of se)! 0 dant) 5 — OUT  ob SUI JUVE gle ly à plasty age Be oSasall ane Lo pis ail 3000  t oh LS ae J sR) ¢ IUT Gall tS NIP | IP o boul oy pes  (SSS PCT] J [) PPE] JPY RETR aapll CSL sobs Olas YI wuss dpi aus pees —  ts
1 dag Las his,  ELablags des all 48 —  fing Beil! ES POI  { SUSI Las ie VV goad CLE bys —  fabyly SI pelaadl po) wis § 15) 1501 —  dl jaadt 5 Lai Li plied à hoped! palais (op OUT plea ne ll  Lpardsy we Vlado lly Jo 91 30a) Spall bast pop) Mail, oll CUS VE bys —  sels lala cond! Jobs elas! Boy hod! ssp! palasll dels —  JI VC MR VL URS | JPOK SYR WHET SVPRPVC LS Lans Lie ol e 65938 ds à AU BPR) [RE €  Cleat ge Se al Glas V1 Gla à cls JS 530
(2.1) Mr. FAYCAL IBN ALI AL-SAID {Sultanate of Oman) {Translation from the Arabic):  Madam President, distinguished members of the Conference, I am happy to convey to you, Madam  President, my heartfelt congratulations on your election to the presidency of our Conference, Indezd, to  have these functions assumed by a lady of your experience and capabilities augurs well for the success of  the Conference. It also gives me pleasure to present my thanks and appreciation to the former President  of the Conference for his valuable efforts during the period of his presidency. I also take this oppo.tunity  of conveying my thanks and appreciation to the Director-General for all his efforts to enable our Organi-  zation to fulfil its sublime noble mission under his wise direction,
(2.2) Madam President, 1 am proud and pleased to have the honour of addressing you in this forum as the  head of my country's delegation to this Conference. We wish with all our hearts that the Conference may  be successful and conducive to the development of teaching and learning, and to the positive and construc-  tive use of the educational process, in all countries of the globe, as a means of achieving the welfare of  humanity and the reign of prosperity and peace with justice throughout the world.
(2.3) In this respect, no one can deny Unesco's priceless efforts to propagate science and knowledge and  its contribution to this purpose by providing the experlence and skills of {ts experts, specialists and lead-  ing men of learning. The Organization has in fact undertaken valuable action to provide {ts Member States  with material, technical and technological assistance, withinaframeworkof co-operation and co-ordination,  in the various fields of science and knowledge, such as academic, /ocational and technical education, adult  education, teacher training, planning, evaluation, spreading compulsory primary education and the demo-  cratization of education.
(2.4) Madam President, I should like bricAy to review what my country has achieved, notwithstanding its  limited material and human resources, in its educational renaissance since the accession to power of His  Majesty Sultan Quabous in 1970.
(2.5) From the point of view of quantitative development:  - the number of schools rose from three boys' schools in 1969-1970 to 173 boys! and girls schools in
1974-1975;  - the number of classes thus increased from 24 classes for boys in 1969-1970 to 1,552 classes for  boys and girls in 1974-1975;  - the number of pupils and students grew from 900 males in 1969-1970 to 57, 377 males and females in
1974-1975, which constitutes a unique leap forward;  - the number of teaching and administrative staff rose from 30 in 1969-1970 to 2, 300 in 1974-1975.
(2.6) Since the seventeenth session of the Unesco General Conference {n 1972 until now, i.e. within two  school-years, the evolution was as follows:  - the number of schools rose from 68 to 173, which represents an increase of 254%;  - the number of male and female pupils and students rose from 24, 481 to 57,377, which represents an  increase of 234%;  - the number of teaching and administrative staff rose from 735 to 2,300, i.e, to 313% of their original  number.
(2.7) As my country Is accelerating its educational development in order to provide educational services to  children of school age and to other groups of the population who had been deprived of education in the past,  {t could not wait until the necessary school buildings were constructed and the required number of Omani  teachers were trained. It therefore had recourse to the following measures:
137   adopting à plan to éonstruct school buildings as fast as possible, while af the same time exploiting  existing buildings to the full by using them for two school shifts and for other activities, such as  adult education and literacy classes, Use has also been made of tents to meet the requirements of  this great expansion and the increasing demand of the population for education;  enlisting the help of sister Arab countries, who contributed generously by seconding the required  numbers of male and female teachers to my country.
(2.8) My country's present educational plan includes the following:  constructions of 43 primary schools and one new secondary school;  erecting 500 tents to accommodate new schools until the school buildings are ready;  constructing 150 prefabricated houses for male and female teachers pending the construction of the  necessary buildings.
(2.9) From the point of view of ‘qualitative development: the Sultanate of Oman lays stress on developing  education qualitativély as well as quantitatively, to ensure positive and effective results for the educational  process. To this end, it has undertaken the following measures:
(2.10) (1) Adoption of an Educational Development Project to be started before the end of this year, which  includes the following:  - strengthening and organization of the different services of the Ministry of Education;  establishment of an Institute to provide pre-service and in-service training for Omani primary  school teachers;  establishment of two centres for fundamental education and training for over-age pupils, one for  males and the other for females, to teach them the basic theoretical skills along with manual skills,  and to enable them to cover the primary school curricula in four years instead of six;  establishment of a secondary agricultural school to train medium-level agricultural personnel, and  to train agricultural staff through short courses at different levels;  sending Omani teachers and counterparts of experts and specialists on study and training missions  abroad to prepare them to assume various teaching and educational functions in the future.
(2.11) (2) Dedfcating all possible efforts, resources and time to improve the quality of education, by under-  taking the following:  - In-service training of Omani male and female teachers. This activity was initiated in 1971-1972,  and we are considering the establishment of two teachers' institutes, one for males and'one for fe-  males, in addition to the one included in the Educational Development Project;  - improvement of school curricula and defining the broad lines of Omani curricula;  - Introduction of educational technology;  - introduction of vocational education and training in academic (general) education schools of all levels;  - expansion of literacy and adult Education programmes with technical and material assistance from  the Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization.
(2.12) (3) We plan to establish vocational training centres for primary school graduates, lo open industrial,  commercial and agricultural vocational secondary achools and to establish a technical secondary school to  train technicians and assistant technicians to work in the couatry's petroleum industry.
(2.13) Madam President, after this general survey of the status of education in the Sultanate of Oman, I  wish to reiterate our appreciation of the great efforts undertaken by Unesco In the field of education. We  have high hopes of the Organizatfon's contribution to the solution of existing educational problems, which I  would sum up as follows:  - the improvement of the quality of education through defining {ts aims, developing its methods, and  using educational alde and techniques;  - the expansion and democratization of education;  - the application of life-long education;  - the provision of the necessary means to eliminate illiteracy and Implement adult education  programmes;  - thé proviston of equal educational opportunities for boys and girls;  - the achievement of balance between academic and technical education, to meet the requirements of  life in our modern age;  - the provision of the material and technical resources required for the drawing up of short- and long-  term educational plans and for evaluating them;  - the development of international co-operation in the fleld of education by organizing conferences and  exchanging research, studies and experience.
(2.14) In conclusion, I ask the Almighty God to guide us all in our ‘efforts to serve education and the  interests of mankind, and hope sincerely that this Conference may achieve all possible success and realize  all its objectives.
3. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Oman and 1 give the floor to Dr. Kamal Najl of the dele-  gation of Qatar.
(3) rt IIS dl — Où  ETI  usd slash *L4, sola! Clas)  «59h 6 slap.  « a5 + 550 Ut ins Lans Seb LS
1 liad Ÿ Wrath peas pl Gall Balad 3h Geol LED LL f YI  bull Jala cas ol amg — JAI bt [EV J PURER If FUORI POR Pip UN y de ei  do Ÿ 6 qbl sale Pure) sis Cll i ob PE WO FJ] IRN | J) YP IF J WC) CN  dacs cbf ro lobdl gn Lode os aaeladlodn pis 51 Lad JL WS. oll fle 1, pay 4b  Load downed) 3.5 ll aed 8 «à od! obebl FY J Je 6 WI PO | I TPR pus  EE dean  PLNRESRSY TENN VAR Gécee 583 UN pds ul 281 58 IPR | PU J IVY) I UE UO lis Get — QE  OI Jt talazdl 3650 TUG ¢ pla Tae le Gl Li, wh 1 Les SNS =  celal LR sey Sa 6 Ld cul gl dled ele Si Gad LE  SP VRS NY UN IY) Ft © J UIC DL PCT | WAL PLT] I BPE Js (SN 51 6 ht 91 Ve — Co  Less ol ely hadly ball Gun $3 Gk ble Loup! all cbulll sig iS! wish  —— "Ur Bll Se Gay sees Wl RASE sid Pll desl Ip0 has ol La Lu  TOR  ei syns Spel) Sapa Sabie ar AB. S31 JP BBL oe sled 30 Lt — (nn  pri bl grt Leu io ail ello 1 pills + ägenedl Sil J pale ail  ol ose lb ddl ue et Baad ol M ep ayr/YO lad oT! Lek py ,andly Suis)  : ok bed Lol  PUR FCT VPS [FOR WET IR EVEREST HPL PRR ARR JU IVINS à hey) gel) hdl = gy  ths pt vue YT NE. 58 soled pal She ppt ol cvs I sid
62555 J  Vin yb Lueuls à do pv 33000 the LS 6 Ll dacht pue Spell plaaly Guns SUIS — 0
139   Abo als piv Ol Repeal! Jy ald GIL) plas) pad) SH tll Sadsell p33 51 JU 6 laa NI  + pre D  arme TS VRC WCU JAF J ON | CLIS san heal WA TY PRINT …$ 3 à WRU] RR dee — OÙ  etd] obs] épaules à Job WU WII € 3086 hy ebb Laas soba op) LL  al plasany à hay Jp 08 ag culs bp Ladl (Site Ju) 0 JALIL 5 Gan (J Segal) (hol  PERRY A Sly à PS RAS WRN ii EXT E HER PH IR DK SUC WI PRE Wy WN. WARY WRN |  pad! Jp OU Badly FSU Blas (US, ads ¥1 Jul gap! tls pe OUT wis ages Vly  RAS  à —s Lens Saint pis op JL ES wy QU 6 yyy DFI Gop La à padadt 7USS Gp LY gy  mad) SN Pet Lene alas 67 sng pal WEAN Regal) April aiid)  tango} Bad) lpindl ue oak) hais Used Sugadl dsl od pb 5 ily Benda] Bin OU  cgi debe pie] on eus Guise t!  Cotas Ylods Ghas 58 Jan, soll RUG pA  LS 156 i guy obs sil hes oF Ba Wb passa 1 pla jobs LS Bed WL ONF  uh) pl obs Rela] py Ly AL tle L'UIS pay ge US pany  CUBA ul, a 2) lus Yl op Lb 13) Js fle ad 0 Y0 AN Ce 09055 Rai WEI  ple 5 Spell by pedo! Jb WU abdlodpg BI gb wlae¥l Lis Mela ups 6 ups  Ny WOT | I PRUE | JE Ji WJ. CU | JE OF POLL oS sob 2 0) qQYA  Serllsoladl bpd abe olay gyre BAL fle LGU Yl pal) edly Lesh — On €  al 3485 has gry BS fh) 2 ela! Bulg aps ol Beds f clbyiaadt LS  Lt edd VAYC/NAYE owlall BL pb 5 5501 es pl LE  el lly Just Jw Ll dl Cpu press olay 11a BAL fl LIS re  Fadl fled) SUT Bad oie Il JU Sule Ln wins ol eld! yo 0 co Absisadly  + 5V3 GI xy Phe bill lad 8 Lay Lai jy Ob qr (JV LS  ete OES aga! Bhidlaesl gl Jd Sandl lol gly Wad plus § sb bad — 0  oe Vs Jt vag V1 Bhadieds Bos 5 Lshwy Lashed Lobley Labs cblany  cblanl easy ill Jha AI else VU 40s pres  Leis bie of padl poled Gb gaged JH ui 51 0 pel flat Gold Lied 6 dus ll (Suen — (1 Y  INL oil yramy Sap pbasll Begs Canari JS aps Sloth Go Bappad | Bsganrad) as 64  NENT yat WE YF. {1 JX CH FEV IER DE UY Lily 45 WR EL RN PRE Lopaks pan] Jal 3,350 Sabie Len tis  » cl oO  ed! Jaas oe dls L ol RD) Lobel qe ci) ol day GI ls, 51 olowl FY W. PF NW] A1 Ll IVA  arigy poem pall Late dl panty Blais Tugun J pt Le Jr pepe) Sisal) Ge Bit ahs VY  os Lage paloatly 5 Bally Aupall La) Login parties Lylaze tubal ado Lips ol die oise sly egal  Ilan V1 pasa 13505 58 La sudgy som Gé HA Liye 13800 pad Use i ol (nj of Sans FAIRE  Vail ane JS Abul abla plis jd gaat) Lil. adel abd sie plies sla, dy ol dmg Aa  Shi Lal sas! HM Shae slatoded ol JS Raul sde pot ol sedis io a  LpslÉlaaes ue BST YUP PL JC | | PY J REP PRY LTO ae pat SL Laabicly Last le opal  i Jet cols uly Bladi peasy pally idl eieaid] SLT § Lew Veau SL 356201 La, ETS  abl eaand lal ie JU Yy 30 oad Sha J pass ply of Gpoe godly Sale Jean oy Lolo  ul 05h bo yay 1 FIN Wa ool IS BILAN 55 cé dei oyaid! Vee 30 Lab 3oscdt OU  eli S510 (I dai Le oly aad Vi Tom ads ol 30 La! Led a VV oT wily 1 Lule julie Lid  oI eis he UNI 1 WEL ln po le lyre ol Wad pôle 5 Yelle on  JL 40 (Sia 0 Lee liga V1 Vin on (S050 58 Lyn 6 als 2,31 JI anus le ad JL pbs, 5 WY WIL  Laas 15 Lis) (555 Jalan) pad Usb JU Lin Jw + Leddy (dy de Ler yes (SL le 0p 508  SIV pui bal us ol a!  hs) pdt dial Sales Sail eds US 0m od ol St ol JE ay Ge lao LA x  Jo vas ole Vie Syche dutagar os + oral, mlb 559 a xols dl Jolt etl
140   JE SRE | IPSN SO un 8 up IRPUY | J Stat OUR SOO 11) JOSE Aa as CHU ph) es  PA die 500 SIM 3 NFCA) pe [TIS 15 pe TION i NICHI JX. 5 Ge WNC! | a de 51511 IR SOW F197)  RY pat) Glas Vly Got FART. pe PV prvaiedee pe [5 TWEE HR RH SIAR  BRITON FRY VA OWS WA Li WE Cf) PERDUE | § PCN] IF PS vole ole BY 5 pee) las 5  JRCTAC AED crus Tf 73 08 YVR WA FETETEWSRTT EUR ALTREC VIE I I IR WLR ROW, Rpg  » allan, (Sls DUAL, LI
(4.1) Mr. KAMAL NAJI (Qatar) (Translation from the Arabic):  Madam President, your excellencies and heads and mémbers of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, in  addressing you on behalf of the head of our delegation, It gives me great pleasure to express to all of you  the goodwill, friendship and esteem of the Emir, Government and people of Qatar, and to address our  hearty congratulations to Mrs. Magda Jébori and the people of Hungary on the occasion of her election as  President of this session, wishing her all success in directing its meetings. 1 also extend our congratula-  tions to the Vice-Presidents, the Chairmen of the committees and commissions and the new Associate and  full Member States.
(4.2) Ladies and gentlemen, we consider the entry of Qatar to Unesco in 1962, first as an Assoclate and  later as a full Member, as the beginning of a new era in the history of education in our country; an era in  which we have increasingly directed our gaze towards the outside world and learned to benefit from its  wisdom and experience, There has been an enormous quantitativé expansion in our educational system,  as regards both the number of pupils and students, the size of the teaching staff and the number of school  buildings, Educational programmes have also been more diversified to meet the country's néeds and con-  tribute to its development,
(4.3) In the field of genera) education, the number of pupils and students has increased fourfold since 1962,  while the number of teachers has increased threefold. School buildings were increased to accommodate  these growing numbers of male and female students. During the same ‘period, schools and institutes were  established for commercial and industrial education, teacher training, riursing, languages and administra-  tion and religious education, All these efforts were crowned last year by the establishment, with the co-  operation of Unesco and UNDP, of two university colleges for education, one for males and the other for  females. These two colleges constitute the nucleus of the planned Khaleej (Gulf) University which Qatar  intends to establish, to serve not only the population of Qatar but that of the whole area. We are glad to  say fhnt having concluded the preliminary studies, we have already begun the construétion of the univer-  sity buildings, and hope to be able, God willing, to inaugurate the Khaleej University in the summer of
1976. We also hope that this university will be distinguished from other universities by a number of spe-  cialized faculties serving the needs of the region, such as a faculty of civil aviation, a faculty of navigation  and marine sciences and a faculty of engineering specialized in petroleum engineering.
(4.4) On the occasion of International Women's Year, I wish to emphasize that the education of women in  Qatar {s being developed along equal and parallel lines to that of men, We have already begun to reap the  fruit of this policy, and the educated Qatari woman now occupies a significant place in all walks of life for  which she has been trained, in a manner that warrants our pride and satisfaction.
(4.5) Madam President, it would take too long to review in detail the educational rénaissance in the State  of Qatar over the last decade, and I shall therefore restrict myself to what I have already mentioned, leav-  ing ft to the reports and publications distributed by our delegation here the task of giving a clear picture of  this renaissance which is justly regarded as one of the strongest pillars in the edifice of modern Qatar.  {4.6) Gentlemen, there is no need to reiterate here the efforts made by your Organization, Unesco, for  the development of education, culture and science all over the world. Still, notwithstanding the positive  aspects which abound in the Unesco Draft Programme and Budget proposed to us for the period 1975-1976,  we have a number of observations to make, of which the most important are the following:
(4.7) As regards educational programmes: the delegation of Qatar observes that, ‘in connexion with the  substance of paragraph 1180 regarding co-operation with UNRWA for the education of Palestinians, the  proposed budget for the Regular Programme amounts to $1, 319, 240, of which $1, 099, 200 are’ for staff,  In other words, the funds allocated to services do notexceed the very small sum'of approximately $220,000.
(4.8) Regarding the content of paragraphs 1319 and 1321 on technical and vocational education, we should  like the programme to include the extension of assistance to developing countries in financing the Introduc-  tion of advanced technologies that should be used in this type of education. Besides, the programmes for  this type of education should be generally strengthened, and an administrative unit should be established in  the Education Sector to concern itself expressly with this task.
(4.9) We welcome Unesco's concern with the development of higher education, as mentioned in paragraph
1513, and venture to hope, on the basis of this concern, that Unesco will see {ts way to establishing an  Arab States Reglonal Centre for Higher Education, and that this objective will be explicitly included inthe  programme,
(4,10) Madam President, the use of Arabic as a working language of Unéaco has been d fully successful experi-  ment which has enriched the Organization and encouraged other organizations members of the United Nations  family to follow suit. We therefore hope that, on the occasion of the International Conference on Educa-  tion to be held next year in Geneva, your General Conference will approve the request of the Arab céun-  »  tries for the progressive introduction of Arablc as a working language of that Conference. We shouldalso  lke Arable to be added to English and French as a working language of the Conference of African Ministers  of Education, for the benefit of the Arab-African countrles.
(4.11) Regarding the Science Sector, the delegation of Qatar refers to paragraph 2261 and éxpresses the  hope that Unesco will assist and co-operate with the Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific  Organization in the establishment of the Arab Centre for Scientific Equipment, for which the Arab States  have allocated 2.5 million Egyptlan pounds fn capital expenditure and about 2. 25 million Egyptian pounds  as an annual budgel.
(4.12) With reference to the objectives slated In paragraph 2446 fn connexion with the subject of water re-  sources and the human environment, we would observe that the funds proposed in the Regular Pragramme  are {nadequate to realize these objectives.
4. 13) On the Social Sciences Development Programme, our view is that the proposed growth rate of 4. 1%
8 insufficient, as is clear from paragraph $079, Moreover, the amount of $44, 000 proposed In paragraph
3202 for the study uf Arab culture {s, In our view, too small in comparison with the funds proposed for the  study of other cultures, We therefore suggest that this amount be at least doubled, While on the subject,  we express oui’ hope that’ {Inesco's programme in 1973 will include the organization of an Intergovernmental  Conference on Cultural Policles in the Arab States.
(4,14) Finally, ag regards the Communlcation Progtammes, we refer to paragraph 4129 on the Regular  Programme Budget for documentation, libraries and archives, to observe that the 1.2% growth rate is too  small, especially as the corresponding percentage for the previous programme for 1973-1974 was 3%.
(4.15) Looking at paragraph 4168 on the improvement of training in documentation, library and archives  manpower, we notice that these programmes which usually benefit developing countries have had the funds  proposed for them reduced to $93, 000, as compared to approximately $219, 000 in the previous biennium
(4.16) As a general remark also, we notice that the Secretariat has not given due regard to the importance  of the Arab region as a possible venue for Unesco's meetings, seminars, conferences and symposiums. In  fact, out of about 250 meetings, the reglon's share has so far been almost negligible.
(4.17) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the delegation of Qatar hopes that the General Conference  wiil adopt the proposais of the Arab group, which seek to improve the quality of education and to enhance  the services rendered by the Organization to the whole world, and particularly to the developing countries.  In this respect, we are confident of your generous response to the objectives that we seek to realize.
(4.18) Gentlemen, there is one further observation I should like to make, and that is that these many and  various programmes and activities included in Unesco's proposed programme and budget are directly  traceable to the energy, vitality and dedication of the Director-General, Mr, René Maheu, We have  known him since, we joined the Organization to be co-operative with all, penetrating In his comprehension  of the Issues of education, culture and science, and eager to realize Unesco's aims of implanting peace in  the minds of men. These are the qualities of René Maheu, the friend whom we know, and who willbe known  to coming generations through thé clear imprint he has left on this international organization. As his  service with Unesco draws to a close, we offer him our very best wishes for his future health and  happiness.
(4.19) Géntlemen, before leaving this rostrum, I must draw your attention to the flagrant challenge to  your Organization and the violations of its laws and regulations committed by Israel through its persistent  aggression against the City of Jerusalem and {ts nultural and historical heritage and monuments, particu-  larly as regards the Holy Places, which have been exposed for some time now to dangerous excavations,  outright demolition and alteration of their features. Israel has exceeded all limits in its aggression, re-  fuses to listen to the voice of reason and justice, your voice, and does not head your numerous resolutions  or the resolutions of the United Nations General Assembly in this respect; it simply ignores them all and  continues {ts unjust and aggressive practices without any consideration or limit. It 1s time, gentlemen,  for you to put an end ‘to this aggression by virtue of the authority invested in you according to the Organi-  zation's Constitution, which makes it incumbent’ upon you to undertake to preserve and protect the world  heritage. The question which urgently poses itself now, and to which all the free world awaits an answer,  is: what will be your attitude towards this recklessness? What action are you going to take towards a  member that disobeys, grossly disdains and even totally ignores your resolutions? This question will not  cease to harass us all until we find the right and decisive answer to it.
(4.20) Gentlémen, before taking my leave of you, it is my duty to salute your Executive Board for its  historic and just decision, taken during its 95th session, whereby it recommended to the Conference the  amendment of the rules and regulations with a view to enabling the Palestine Liberation Organization, the  only legitimate fépregentative of the people of Palestine, to take part in Unesco's activities. Your approval  of this recommiendation will be perfectly In line, not only with the resoluilon adopted by the United Nations  General Assembly a tew daÿs ago regarding the representation of the PLO at the United Nations, but also  with all the principles of justice and equity, fnasmuch as it will allow a people of ancient civilization and  time-honoured culture to exercise the lawful rights of which it has been deprived by the fascist military  clique calléd Israel.
(4.21) Gentlemen, being confldent that you will not fail to adopt this recommendation, 1 salute you before-  hand and thank you. for your kind aftention to my remarks.
5. The PRESIDENT:  I thank Dr. Najl and [ now give the floor to H. E. Professor Vitorino Magalhaes Godinho,  head of the delegation of Portugal.
6.1 M, MAGALHAES GODINHO (Portugal), -  Qu'il me soit d'abord permis de vous dire, Madame la Présidente, combien nous nous félici-  tons que vous ayez été appelée à diriger nos débats.
6.2 Madame la Présidente, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs, le Portugal  reprend désormais sa place dans la communauté mondiale des échanges pour le développement de  l'éducation, de la science et de la culture. Sa présence à cette dix-huitidme session de la Confé-  rence générale témoigne à elle seule d'une contribution décisive aux deux tâches majeures qui font  partie de nos soucis communs : l'action en faveur du respect des droits de l'homme et l'établisse-  inent d'un régime de paix durable,
6,3 Exclu longtemps du concert des nations, tant en raison de son refus obstiné de reconnaftre les  légitimes droits des peuples à l'indépendance et à une vie propre, en accord avec leurs cultures  originales, qu'en raison des graves atteintes aux libertés individuelles et collectives dont étaient  victimes les Portugais eüx-mêmes en métropole, le Portugal s'est ressaisi le 25 avril et a, .en |  quelques mois, accompli une oeuvre remarquablé dans ces deux domaines, La Guinée-Bissau cons-  titue désormais un Etat souverain, d'où tous les soldats portugais se sont retirés, et nous nous fé-  licitons de sa prochaine admission au sein de cette Organisation prestigieuse, admiwsinn que nous  appuyons chaleureusement. La guerre, donc, y a pris fin. Au Mozambique, une expétienu~ origi-  nale de décolonisation se poursuit sous l'égide d'un gouvernement mixte ; elle aboutira également  à l'Indépendance totale et rendra possible la cohabitation de populations de provenances diverses ;  les accords de Lusaka avec le Frelimo y ont mis fin à l'état de guerre et ont ainsi permis une  évolution pacifique et une collaboration fructueuse, En Angola, les grandes lignes d'un avenir de  paix et de travail se dessinent déjà clatrement, Ailleurs, une politique hard{e essaie de devaricer  les problèmes susceptibles de soulever des conflits, Toute celte oeuvre rétablit la tranquillité dans  de vastes régions jusqu'ici tourmentées par la révolte et les luttes armées, et elle pose les fonde-  ments d'un nouveau type de relations qui n'a rien à voir avec Je néo-colonlalisme : ce sont des re-  lations d'égal à égal À tous les points de vue.
6,4 Une décolonisation accomplie en moins de six mois dans certains cas et efficacement prépa-  rée dans les autres, c'est là, de la part du Portugal, qui a fait converger ses efforts avec ceux  de ses partenaires africains, un apport hautement positif à l'assainissement de cette atmosphère  de tensions internationales dont la suppression conatitue un des buts essentiels de l'action de  l'Unesco, Si le Portugal a été de plus en plus isolé jusqu'au 25 avril, il a depuis lors noué des re-  lations diplomatiques normales avec un grand nombre de pays, comme il espère en nouer bientôt  avec tous, quel que soit leur régime politique ou leur façon de vivre. Car nous comptons beaucoup  sur ces échanges pour une meilleure compréhension entre les peuples - entre tous les peuplés de  la terre - et nous voyons dans une telle compréhension le moyen de bâtir un avenir de confiance  réciproque et d'efforts communs dans le sens d'une paix véritable,
6.5 Si, le 25 avril, nous avons viré de cap et choisi sans remords ou fausse honte la voie de la dé-  colonisation totale, il ne s'agit pas seulement d'une contribution de poids à la paix mondiale, f1  s'agit aussi - faut-il dire surtout ? - d'une attitude nouvelle à l'égard de l'homme et des hommes:  nous voulons respecter leur personnalité individuelle et culturelle, ‘donner à chacun les chances  de bâtir sa vie selon son projet propre et à chaque société de frayer les voles de développement  qu'elle aura librement choisies, La fin de la politique colonialiste, politique dont la majéure par-  tie du peuple portugais ne voulait d'ailleurs point, signifie la reconnaissance de ia valeur éniinente  des droits de l'homme en tant que personne et des hommes en tant que sociétés et cultures vivantes;  elle a également sonné, au Portugal même, le glas de l'oppression politique, économique et cultu-  relle, et n'a été rendue possible que par ce changement, Car, si nous regardons le fond des choses,  les droits essentiels des Portugais eux-mêmes n'étaient point reconnus et respectés. Toujours à  cet égard, le 25 avril représente un tournant et, du point de vue qui nous rassemble ici, un tour-  nant décisif dans l'apport à l'expérienée vécué des droits de l'homme, Nous avons démantelé la  police politique dont le rôle ne connaissait point de bornes légales, mis fin au régime du parti  unique, reconnu la liberté d'association et de réunion ainsi que de l'organisation syndicale, sup-  primé la censure préalable de la Presse, de la radio et de la télévision, établi la libre ¢/rculation  des nationaux et des étrangers à travers les frontières, nous avons liquidé le régime corporatif  imité du fascisme Îtalien, ouvert la participation de couches de plus en plus larges à la vie poli-  tique et aux initiatives sociales et culturelles ; de larges débats nationaux s'engagent, notre éco-  nomie s'oriente vers le service de l'ensemble de la nation au leu de rester la chasse gardée d'un  tout petit nombre de privilégiés protégés par le pouvoir politique, nous avons mis fin à la répres-  sion brutale qui frappait les étudiants, et nous construisons une écolè nouvelle, Voilà autant de  réalisations qui honorent ces quelques mois de gouvernement de transition, Le but est de donner  la voix aux citoyens eux-mêmes, de telle sorte qu'ils puissent choisir en connaîssarice de cause  et sans contraintes les destins de leur patrie ; c'est-à-dire, une démocratiè pluraliste, dans la-  quelle jouent leur rôle les différentes familles spirituelles portugaises; les règles du jeu étant  scrupuleusement respectées. Avant tout, surtout, nous voulons le respect des droits qui pér-  mettent l'épanouissement de la personnalité de chacun, la libre expression de tous et l'appel à  leur participation à part entière dans l'ensemble de la vie nationale. C'est la fin de la peur et de la  haine que nous voulons, afin que soient finis à jamais les cauchemars de la terreur et que le peuple  portugais retrouve les chemins de l'espérance,
6,6 Permettez-nous d'insister sur ces points capitaux, Après presque un demi-siècle d'un régime  autoritaire, qui a mafntenu le Portugal à l'écart du monde moderne, il fallait évidemment s'attendre  a des ‘secousses qui, dans bien des cas, ont pourtant été évitées. Presque aucuné victime À déplo-  rer, un chargement qui restera dans l'histoire comme le printemps des oeillets rouges, l'espoir  d'un Portugal néuveau, nullement menacé par le chaos et capable de s'attaquer aveé entrain aux  rudes tâches qui l'attendent (car ce n'est pas du jour au lendemairi qu'on fera disparaître la peur  et que l'on changera une mentalité fagonnée par des décenntes d'oppreséich et de retard écono-  mique et culturel), un pays où l'activité politique s'organise après d'interminablés années d'inter-  diction et de clandestinité, tel est finalement le bilan, Notre économie est certés rongée par l'In-  flation, comme presque toutes les autres, et elle subit les contrecoups de la crise économique  qui secoue tant de pays hautement développés ; elle reste particulièrement vulnérable. Néanmolns,  elle entre résolument dans la voie qui doit la mener du sous-développement au développement.
6.7 La conception qui doit sous-tendre ce développement, les méthodes à définir, les politiques  de développement entre lesquelles choisir et les stratégies à adopter ne peuvent pas être simple-  ment importées, empruntées à d'autres expériences, N'oublions point que l'économie et la société  portugaises, chronologiquement contemporaines du capitalisme industriel avancé, voire des socié-  tés tertiaires, afnsi que des constructions socialistes, restent pour une large part rattachées au  monde qui précéda la révolution industrielle et l'avènement de la bourgeoisie triomphante ; en gros,  nous pourrions parler d'un ancien régime que n'aurait pas encore ébranlé la Révolution française,  qui a maintenu ses structures profondes et ses façons de sentir et de penser au milieu des boule-  versements déclenchés par le machinisme et la science des XIXe et XXe siècles,
6.8 D'où la spécificité des problèmes portugais, d'où les handicaps, mais aussi les chances, d'un  mouvement prospectif qu'il n'est ni possible, ni guère souhaitable de mettre sur les rails naguère  suivis par les autres mouvements, L'industrialisation, inévitable, se doit de ne pas déboucher  sur la construction d'une société inhumaine menacée par la pollution et par la destruction des  valeurs de l'environnement naturel, Nous souhaitons évidemment l'apport des capitaux étrangers  et la croissance de nos échanges avec toutes les autres nations ; toutefois, il est indispensable et  tout à fait possible d'insérer l'implantation d'industries nouvelles de même que l'essor de nos pro-  ductions destinées à l'exportation dans une planification ayant pour but essentiel d'améliorer la  qualité de la vie des populations sans dégrader le milieu naturel et sans réduire les Portugais au  statut d''immigrés de l'intérieur",
6.9 Ces plans de développement ne pourront ‘nullement, cela va sans dire, résorber du jour au  lendemain le surplus de main-d'oeuvre vrontrainté à chercher une issue dans l'émigration, Il ne  faudra cependant pas considérer le Portügal comme une usine de production de main-d'oeuvre où  d'autres viennent puiser. Notre stratégie du développement passe nécessairement par la moder-  nisation d'une agriculture encore trop routinière, trop peu mécanisée et mal adaptée aux besoins  du monde contemporain en produits alimentaires et matières premières. C'est dire qu'il nous faut  augmenter sa productivité, tout en continuant de libérer des bras qui s'acharnent encore à tirer  de maigres rendements du sol, Toutefois, celte stratégie implique non seulement la création d'em-  plois dans les autres secteurs et branches de la production, mais aussi la correction, ou du moins  la réduction marquée des disparités régionales. Nous avons en effet abouti à un déséquilibre tel  que les trois quarts de la population vivent sur le tiers du territoire national, Il nous faut donc  mettre en route un processus de démarrage qui combine harmonieusement les transformations  agricoles et agraires, les innovations industrielles et une meilleure mise en valeur des res-  sources de la mer. L'exploitation des ressources naturelles sera conçue pour assurer le mieux-  être des Portugais au lieu d'être axée sur des indicateurs purement quantitatifs, de façon à pro-  duire davantage certes, mais surtout mieux, en fonction des besoins des hommes en tant que ci-  toyens et en fonction de leur bonheur. Les paysages ont été façonnés par un labeur acharné des  hommes au cours des siècles, au long des millénaires ; leur humanisation est donc inévitable ; il  s'agit maintenant de trouver l'équilibre entre la nature physique et biologique que nous a léguée  l'histoire et le pouvoir redoutable qu'a l'homme de construire un environnement qui, du fait de son  art, devient de plus en plus artificiel. La aussi, le Portugal est dans une position particulière,  parce qu'il demeure moins profondément marqué par la machine, les fumées et les déchets ; mais  cet avantage implique le choix judicieux des actions à entreprendre. Au-delà de cet équilibre bio-  logique entre l'homme et l'environnement, au ras du sol, il y a l'apport des générations qui nous  ont précédés, dont les oeuvres culturelles enrichissent notre vie quotidienne et contribuent encore  à nous ouvrir des horizons insoupçonnés dans le domaine de la création et de l'invention. L'avenir  que nous voulons bâtir ne fait point table rase de 1'acquis du travail des hommes d'hier et d'autre-  fois. Les sites, les monuments et lés oeuvres d'art restent pour nous des cadres de vie, des mo-  dèles de sensibilité et d'action. Tout cela témoigne de la diversité des expériences humaines et  constitue autant d'incitations à ne point arrêter cette création culturelle qui véritablement définit  le sens de l'humain.
6.10 Nous sommes ici présents, non seulement parce que nous sommes srs d'ayoir beaucoup à  apprendre des autres et parce que nous sommes pleinement conscients de ce que représentent de  possibilités pour notre avenir les emprunts aux autres cultures et sociétés, mais aussi parce que,  modestement sans doute, mais de façon valable, nous avons quelque chose à vous apporter, Nous  avons à vous apporter, outré le legs d'une histoire Itée aux grandes découvertes et par conséquent  à la constitution du réseau mondial d'échanges que cette aventure a rendu possible, quels qu'aient  été par ailleurs ses aspects négatifa, le témoignage de nos peintres et de nos artisans, une litté-  rature de résistance dont nous pouvons être fiers et, de plus, nos espérances et nos tâtonnements  dans la voie de la construction d'un Portugal plus fraternel et plus juste.
6,11 Projet ambitieux, de longue haleine, et en même temps pressant et urgent, car il nous faut  préparer la conscience politique des Portugais, leur rendre la possibilité réelle de se prononcer  sur les options fondamentales de la vie nationale ; il nous faut assurer une connaissance approfon-  die de la réalité portugaise, afin que les buts solent en rapport avec ses problèmes spécifiques et  affectifs et que nous puissions tracer une stratégie de développement susceptible d'être efficace ;  {1 nous faut aussi former des cadres et tous les travailleurs capables de mener à bien la réalisa-  tion de cette politique ; il nous faut enfin organiser les institutions et les moyens grâce auxquels  les Portugais joutront effectivement des droits fondamentaux de l'homme dans le cadre d'une so-  ciété de justice et de dignité.
6,12 Ayant dans notre champ de visée ces buts, nous devona d'une part élaborer.une politique: ,  scientifique, technologique et de création culturelle en rapport aveg nos problèmes nationaux et la  promotion de l'ensemble des Portugais à la participation de la culture vivante, et d'autre part re-  nouveler entièrement notre système d'éducation et d'enseignement de telle sorte qu'il soit au ser-  vice du processus de démocratisation du pays et de la formation de travailleurs très compétents,  Nous revenons ainsi à notre préoccupation dominante : assurer À tous. les êtres humains une exis-  tence digne et pleine, au cours de laquelle leurs droits soient respectés, Et les droits de l'homme,  votre rapport en témoigne, passent avant tout (ou plutôt, en même temps, que par la création de  la richesse nationale) par la politique de l'éducation. : - . ; ‘
6.13 Incontestablement, l'égalité des chances dans la vie ne peut être assurée que si dès le départ  tous les enfants bénéficient de l'ambiance de l'école maternelle, C'est par là que commence vrai-  ment la démocratisation de l'enseignement et, à notre avis, il doit s'agir d'une des actions priori-  taires dans les pays en vole de développement, Le fascisme portugais ne s'y était pas trompé, qui  avait supprimé l'éducation préprimaire instituée par la Première République en 1911,
6.14 Mais nous nous heurtons à cet égard à de grandes difficultés car nous manquons de cadres  aussi bien'qué d'installations scolaires et, pour.mener à bien notre oeuvre, dont l'un des buts est  d'atténuer l'écart entre les populations rurales et urbaines, ainsi qu'entre les différentes couches  sociales aussi, il nous faut presque partir du néant. - -
6.15 L'enseignement obligatoire destiné aux enfants de 6 à 14 ans soulève bien des problèmee,  C'était un des moyens les plus puissants employés par le régime fasciste pour façonner la menta-  lité des grandes masses dans le conformisme idéologique. En outre, on avait souvent recours à  des enseignants mal préparés à leur métier, Ne nous étonnons donc pas s'il y a encore un pour-  centage trop élevé d'illettrés (20 % probablement). En plus, cet enseignement était coloré par  l'idéologie officielle totalitaire ; il portait très gravement atteinte à la liberté d'information et à  d'autres droits fondamentaux ; il consacrait les inégalités liées aux origines sociales. Nous avons  déjà renouvelé de fond en ccmble tous les programmes, depuis l'école primaire jusqu'aux classes  terminales de l'enseignement, afin de les libérer des contraintes de l'idéologie totalitaire, de les  rendre adéquats à une société pluraliste, et d'en faire - alors qu'ils étaient fréquemment archafîques  dane leur contenu et dans leur esprit - des instruments vivants d'accès à la science et % la culture  modernes ; et nous avons aussi voulu rapprocher les unes des autres les branches parallèles de  l'enseignement de base, dont le contenu variait selon les couches sociales auxquelles elles s'adres-  salent, afin qu'il n'y ait plus qu'un tronc commun pour tous les jeunes Portugais.
6.16 Qu'il nous soit permis de souligner deux points. D'une part, ces réformes visent l'égalisa-  tion des chances offertes à chaque enfant - mais sans cacher que la majeure partie du chemin restu  à parcourir -, d'autre part, les nouveaux contenus des programmes scolaires et le nouvel esprit  de l'enseignement apportent une dimension pleine de sens à l'exercice des droits fondamentaux de  l'homme et A sa participation aux progrès scientifiques et culturels ; ainsi s'effacent les préjugés  raciaux et les haines entre les peuples, l'intention étant d'établir une meilleure compréhension des  autres - de tous les autres - en tant que tels. Dans une telle perspective, il n'y a plus de hiérar-  chie de cultures et de civilisations, il y a l'oeuvre commune de l'humanité entière.
6,17 La société portugaise devient une société ouverte, d'où la ruée vers les universités : pour  cette année, les premières inscriptions sont de deux à quatre fois supérieures à ce qu'elles étaient  en 1973, Cette augmentation nous pose cectes un problème dramatique, mais elle ne constitue  pourtant pas notre souci majeur, qui est celui de l'enseignement préprimaire et de l'éducation per-  manente, et nous rejéignons ici la préoccupation exprimée dans le projet de résolution présenté .  par. la Pologne, Les tâches délaissées par l'ancien régime devront désormais préndre une place  prioritaire dans notre politique nationale d'éducation, Malheureusement, le démarrage ne pourra  pas être aussi rapide que nous le souhaiterions - manque d'expérience, absence d'institutions et  d'organes, de moniteurs et de professeurs, ces derniers mal préparés pour la pédagogie qui  s'adresse aux adultes:; nous n'en avons pas moins entrepris cétté promotion ‘culturelle par des  campagnes d'alphabétisation qui sont sur la bonne voie, Et nous ne pouvons oublier les émigrés,  en nombre considérable - quelques millions éparpillés Je la Californie à l'Allemagne -, que notre  rébeau scolaire doit saisir et intégrer dans la culture non seulement portugaise mais universelle,  ‘ FE . A . . ; M + Lt Pa
6,18 Cette question de l'émigration ne doit plus être pour le Portugal une façon d'esquiver la solu-  tion des problèmes difficiles qui se posent à son économie et à sa société. À nette vole nouvelle  qui reste à trouver, une politique de recherche scientifique et technologique peut apporter des so-  lutions et des modèles efficaces, Nous voulons pourtant que cette politique soit définie en rapport  avéé nos bésoins'effectife et nos possibilités réelles. La conjoncture présente a été l'occasion au  Portugal d'un extraordinaire engouement pour les sciences cocialeé'et humaines : il nous faut pro-  fiter de cet engouement non seulement pour préparer des professeurs, mais aussi pour moderai-  ser l'adminfétratioh publique, ‘sans quoi nous ne réussirons pas la modernisation de notre écono-  mie. Il nous faut débloquér une structure sociale trop rigide et mal-adaptée au monde actuel, en,  Mänt ce processus A'la réorgantsation démocratique du pouvoir, et bâtir ainsi une société non plus  de sujets mals de éltoyéns, Une telle société ne fonotionnera que si une politique de l'information  accordé à chacun la possibilité réelle de connaître les données et les visées dont découlent les -.  choix, Lä'‘éusel, 11 nous faudra recourit aux sciencen sociales et humaines - à condition toutefois  que ces sciences s'inspirent d'un humanisme prospectif, Donc, meltre en route des écoles de pré-  paration à tous les procédés de communication sociale.
6,19 - Nous espérotis que vous ne nous en voudrez point d'être intervenus dans ce débat de politique  générale du point dé'vue des problèmes spécifiquement porfugais, de la réalité vivante de nôtre  patrie et des projets d'avenir dont nous rôvons et à la réalisation desquels nous travaillons avec  acharnement ét èn réfléchissant longuement, Revenant dans cette communeuté qu'une politique ana-  chronique et bornée nous avait falt quitter 1l y a quelques années, hous n'avons pu prendre part à  l'élab6ration du programme ni à tous les travaux préparatoires : nous sommes (of en qualité  d'apprentis et notre collaboration né pourra devenir fructueuse que petit à petit, Mais nous avons  pensé qu'une réflexion découlant des problèmes concrets et des perspeatives d'un pays en profond  changement éclairerait peut-être davantage ce débat général, Le Portugal en train de changer : ce  n'est pas seuiement un défi à nos recherches communes et A l'invention de l'avenir, c'est aussi la  mise en oeuvre'des directions fondamentales suivies par l'Unesco. -
6.20 Par un accord signé le 24 séptembre, le Portugal a reconnu à l'Inde la plélne souveraineté  sur Goa, Daman et Diu. Cet accord met fin à un passé colonial datant de 1510, il consacre l'effon-  drement d'une mythologie impérialiate et'la volonté de notre Inscrtion dans le monde réel, Le  Portugal vit son heure de vérité. Mais cet accord préserve une collaboration culturelle de haute  valeur et ne rente point ce qui, du passé, reste valable, L'ère de l'oppression est révolue, le  Portugal s'ouvre à toute la communauté des échanges scientifiques, culturels'et'de l'éducation ;  c'est la fin d'une politique qui aboutissaft à isoler ma patrie, le signe de la volonté de prendre  part à l'oeuvre commune de toutes les cultures et civilisations. Voilà les ralsons de notre pré-  sence ici aujourd'hui, témofgnage d'une espérance qui exalte le coeur de tous les hommes de bonne  volonté.
6.21 En terminant, nous voudrions dire à quel point le peuplè portugais a été sensible à l'enthou-  siasme avec lequel là rentrée du Pôrtugal dans cette prestigieuse organisation a été saluée par le  Sénégal et le Brésil - deux rives de l'Atlantique que les navigateurs portugais ont jadis découvertes.  Leur préuve de confiance dans les possibilités de rénouveau du pays que nous avons l'honneur de  représenter Îci sera pour nous un encouragement de valeur inestimable à poursuivre la route entre-  prise - là route vers de nouvelles découvertes. À tous ceux qui nous ont si amicalement accueillis,  nous exprimons également notre gratitude, et à toutes les nations présentes à cetle Conférence  nous adressôns un salut fraternel, dans la certitude de marcher dorénavant ensemble sur la vole  de la construction de la paix et de l'édification d'une société où le respect des droits de l'homme  sera la fierté de tous, Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente.
7. The PRESIDENT: :  I thank the Head of the delegation of Portugal, and now I give the floor to Dr. Rodolfo Barén  Castro, Secretary-General of the Ibero-American Bureau of Education.
(8.1) Mr. BARON CASTRO (Ibero-Amerléan Bureau of Education) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President of the General Conference, Mr. Director-General, Mr. Chairman of the Executive  Board, delegates, observers, ladles and gentlemen: If I avail myself of the privilege of speaking from the  roatrum of this renowned Organization in my capacity as Secretary-Geheral of the Ibero-American Bureau  of Education, an Intergovernmental body which came into being as the result of auspicious action taken  exactly 25 years ago for the purpose of co-ordinattng the educational, cultural, scientific and technological  efforts of a community as vast as that constituted by the Spanieh- and Porluguese-speaking natlons. ldo
50 with the firm intention of taking up no more of the valuable time of this assémbly than ls necessary lc  refer very succinctly to the principal activities in which Unesco and IABE have co-operated since the end  of the last session of the General Conference, and to outline some possible future activities - all in con-  formity with the spirit of the mutual co-operation agreement concluded in 1957 between the two borlfes, an  agreement which while broad in scope may nevertheless be considered a model of loyal, unswerving and  effective application.
(8.2) Having said the foregoing, [have pleasure In transmitting to you, Madam President - and you are  well aware that it is no empty formality « sincerest congratulations, from the intergovernmental iñatitu-  tion which 1 have the honour Of representing, on your triumphant election to your present office,. an elec-  tion which bears solemn and lasting witness to the well-founded sentiments of appreciation of thoge: who  have become your debtors in the international community because of your valuable and éfficient contribu-  tion to the development of Unesco's work. In a more personal vein, allow me to recall with affection and  gratitude the cordial, most kind and hospitable reception that you gave me in your country, when I had the
149   * pleasure of visiting it as an official guest a'decade ago, in my then capacity as Chairman of the Executive  Board of Unesco. : : ; '
(8.3) In turning now to the central theme of my speech, namely the activities in which IABE and Unesco  have garried out joint efforts, I must first of all make mentiop of what might be summed up as "Literacy,  Popayën, 1973". What was It that took place with regard to literacy fn that beautiful Colombian city last  year that we should attach such épeclél Importance to it? On the surface it seemed lo be no more than a  symposium - an'fberosAmerledii'syinposium - on literacy. Nevertheless, this symposium’ was remark-  able becauke Ît was convened and organized In dceordanée with certain original ideas that sprang fromtwo  Unesco orgatis.: But 1 shall let a clearer and more authoritative voice than mine speak for me by quoting  from the message which Her Imperial Princess Ashraf Pahlavi sent for the opening session and which the  Ambassador and former minister, Mr. Majid Rahnema, read on her behalf. Her Highness sald:  © (8.4) "I need not express what I féel as the symposium of the Popaydn opens. 1 feel sadness at belng un-  able to join you, but at thé sarné time [ am happy and proud to see that a long-standing dream of our jury  and our Consultative Liaison Committee for Literacy fs e¢dining true, the dream hich consisted In bring-  ing together round the same table the winners of thé '"Méhammad Réza Pahlavi! and 'Nadejda K. Krupskaya'  prizes, as well ag those who received honourable mention. Latin Ainerica, and Colombla especially, are  to be congratulated for having made this dream come true on a reglonal scale. "
(8.5) For this reason the "Declaration of Popayän" - the mature fruit of the symposium - has had wide  repercussions, not only in the ambit of the Spanish- and Portuguese-speaking countries, but In all those  where illiteracy welghs likes a heavy stone the pressure of which is capable of stifling the finest efforts  directed towards the cultural and socto-economie liberation of 800 million of our contemporaries.
(8.8) The symposium’ of Popaydn however does not only represent the successful development of an orig-  {nal fdea; it {s also the frank statement - or restatement, if you prefer - without euphemisms or smoke  screens, which a region has made about one of Îts most urgent problems, The symposium was as revolu-  tionary as it was realistic. Ibero-America - in other words, the Spanish-speaking countries of America  and Brazil - must face up to the responsibility of 80 million {lliterates - 10% of the world's total - and  this situation will only disappear when, as point 2 of the Declaration states, "We have the courage fo  “ identify and face the real causes of illiteracy".
(8.7) Naturally I am not going to go into details about a meeting the results of which have been widely  disseminated in a number of languages, but I should like to say that both the spirit of the symposium as  well as its basic motivation were perfectly defined in the message which the Director-General of Unesco,  Mr. René Maheu, sent to the participants. Mr. Maheu sald:
(8.8) "The struggle for universal literacy is, now more than ever, one of the essential objectives of the  world community and a priority task of the United Nations agencies. Over and above dogmatic philosophies  and disputes about methods, it is important to increase our efforts, to diversify the means of action as  much as possible, and to mobilize all national resources. " ’
(8.9) Logically the symposium was not going to limit its scope to a régional framework, because that  would have meant ignoring the fact that while the évil should be combated at every level, beginning with  the natlonal and continuing with the regional, it is absolutely universal in context. Hence the "Declaration  of Popaydn' covera three pointe which define a clear position in this regard. They are the following:  "10, Likewise, while fully respecting national development projects, the international organizations must  intensify and co-ordinate their efforts in favour of literacy, and the international financing institutions  must replace ‘an attitude of what appears tobe {nexcusable indifference on their part by another which is  more in conformity with the hopes that thelr very creation has aroused, 11. Ii this’ samé connexion, the  more industrialized countries, which have shown very littie interest in matters affeéting the people of the  Third World, must join to form a World Fund for Literacy under an international administration to con-  tribu’e tw the attainment of the legitimate aspirations of our peoples. 12. In making this declaration, we  are confident that we are expressing points of view and yearnings that are shared by many people through-  out the world beyond our borders. The concerted efforts of all towards national development will surely  bring about the solution to a universal problem’.
(8.10) At least some of the longing expressed in the paragraphs that I have just read were not voices  erying In the wilderness”. The International Consultative Liaison Committee for Literaty, meeting in  Teheran last December, withthe Diréctor-Genéralof Unesco, and its honoräry chairman, Her Impérial High-  ness Princess Ashraf Pahlavi, in attendance, and meeting again under my chairmanship thanks tothe genero-  eity of my flluatrious colleagues, had the "Declaration of Popayén' among its working documents and it helped  them to measure the extent to which the idea of "Fund" or a "Foundation" of a world-wide character for  purposes of literacy had the backing of such Important groups as that which met in the hospitable capital  of the Cauca. Thus the Committee, following these lines - as already suggested in the previous meellng  of its General Committee - decided that a working group should examine the question, and that group,  which met in Parle last July, accomplished its task admirably, producing a report which was later read  and commented on by the General Committée at its meeting In Parts in August.
(8.11) Of course, the Popaydñ Symposium, whose regional significance and universal scope are clear,  would not have been possible without the active sponsorship of the Government of Colombia, which con-  sidered it the high point of its educational activity in 1973, proclaimed throughout the country as ‘Literacy  Year", And, while 1 am on this subject, [ am particularly pleased to call to your attention the fact that ft  was Dr. Juan Jaéobo Munoz, who is leading the delegation of Colombia at this Conference and whose bril-  lant speech you heard this mozning, who, in his capacity as Minister of Education of his country, made it  possible for the symposium to become a magnificent reality.
(8.12) But to conclude as regards this question, which La of kuch great interest to all countries, | should  Mke tô state publicly how pleased 1 was as 1 Mstened to the forceful address delivered at the plenary meet-  {ng où Saturday morning - the first meeting devoted to this general discussion - by the distinguished head  "of the delegation of fran, H.E., Mr. Abdel Hossein Samil, in which he offered us the first frults of his  Government's project to convene in 1975, which will bé the tenth annivereary of thé historic World Confer-  ence of Ministers for the Elimination of literacy, a meeting tobe attended by the winners of the Mohammad
150   * Reza Pahlavi and Nadejda K. Krupskaya prizes, for the purpose of evaluating the results obtained in the  field of literacy in the decade since that Conference, .The timing of this "world-wide Popaydn' = {f [ may  eo style it - could not be better. On behalf of the Bureau that I represent - and to the extent that it may  affect me in my capacity as Chairman of the International Consultative Liaison Committee for Literacy,  and that of member, from {its establishment in 1967, of the jury resporsible for awarding the Reza Pahlavi  and Krupskaya prizes - I offer my best wishes for the success of that opportune initiative, and [ have no  doubt that it will enjoy the sponsorship it requires.
(8.13) Next - and with suitable brevity - I should like to refer to another important aspect ôf Unescu-lABE  collaboration, namely that concerning publications. As you know - and | have mentioned the fact from this  rostrum on other occasions - IABE has been publishing for the last ten years the Spanish version of the  journal "Impact", with some sacrifice of fuñds from its regular budget. We at IABE fee) that we are there-  by primarily serving the interests of the Spanish-speaking community, but {t is no less cértain that by doing  so we are relieving Unesco of a task that might have been lafd upon it, Our agreement operates amoothly  and regularly, and Î belleve itis advantageous for both parties, If, as would seem normal, this General  Conference approves the draft résolution set out In paragraph 2042 of 18 C/5, whose sub*paragraph (c})  refers tn the continued publication of "Impact', : such approval automatically implies continuation of the  agreement concluded with IABE. * Nevertheless, I fake the liberty of suggesting a slight change in the word-  ing of paragraph 2051 of document 18 C/5, in order to clarify it and avoid any misunderstanding. Thus,  where it reads; "The Spanish language edition will continue to be published through arrangements with the  Oficina de Educacidn Ibero-Americana in Madrid", it should be made to read at the end: '... with the  Oficina de Educacién Ibero+Americana, an intergovernmental body with its headquarters in Madrid",  While we Indeed feel quite at home In the hospitable Spanish capital, it is obvious that the statutory regu-  lation which accounts for our presence there does not entitle us to be listed among the Institutions "of  Madrid", no matter how flattering that qualification might be. ; -
(6.14) I should add by way of conclusion concerning Impact’), that its accumulation over the years of  first-class scientific material, -put into beautiful and precise Spanish, has meant that many issues, vol-  umes or even complete collections have rapidly become depleted, thereby preventing us from satisfying  the requests of readers for particular articles. This led us to the idea of grouping by subject everything  that had been published in the 1964-1973 decade and publishing a number of “pocket books" that would once  again make available to readers those articles that it had become difficult to find for reasons outlined  above, with'the advantage of having them linked together by the guiding thread of their conceptual affinity.  Thus tals year saw the publication’of the first two volumiès of the series "Temas de Impacto", entitled  “Ciencia y Desarrollo” and "Agricultura y Medio Ambiente”. It Is planned to publish 26 voluines in less  than three years, with an initial edition of 10, 000 copies for each title. This means making avallable to  the Spanish-spéaking public by the end of 1976 or the beginning of 1977, 280, 000 coples of "Temas de  Impacto’. Naturally, in order to guarantee the success of this venture, the necessary discussions have  been held with Unesco both at the level of the Director-General and at that of the editor of "Impact",  Mr. Jacques Richardson, whom [ thank once again for their unfailing spirif of co-operation. This "opera-  tion Impact" le belng carried out by [ABE in conjunction with a private publishing house In Barcelona.
(8.15) Another work of great value that has appeared in Spanish as the result of an understanding between  IABE and Unesco is entitled "Estudios Superiores”, printed last year, which contains a comparative study  of the educational gystems, certificates and diplomas of 129 countries, This work, of an exceptional na-  ture, had {ts origin in certain resolutions adopted by the Unesco General Conference at its thirteenth and  fourteenth sessions held in 1964 and 1966, respectively. At the present time, in addition to the Spanish  edition to which I have referred, this indispensable instrument fe only available {n a French version pub-  lished a few months ago.
(8.16) But before leaving the subject of Unesco-IABE co-operation in the field of publications, it is most  fitting to refer to the draft resotutfon submitted by Panama as an amendment to 18 C/5 (item 17. 4 of the  agenda) on the increased use of Spanish at Unesco, a draft resolution approved and ‘supported hy twenty-  two countries. .
(6.17) With cautious foresight, the Panamanian proposal does not call for conglderation of the resolutions  at this sesalon of the General Conference but at the next, 1.6, In two years! time. This period will make  it possible to review the matter thoroughly, not in a formalistic spirit as if thé proposal had been prompted  purely by considerations of self-esteem - but with a global, "Unesco-like" appréach which réfliécth à ¢on-  cern for balance within the Organization of the major lingu' ;ilc and cultural areas, considering the world-  wide nature of {ts rilssion. My congratulations to the Pénaïnantan delegation whose Initiative expresses  the sehtiniénts of tHé vast Spaniah3speaking community, "and | add my gratitude to its eminent head, H.F.  Mr. Horacio Bustamante, for the thoughtful reference that he was kind enough to make to IABE and to me  . personally in his eloquent speech this morning. . . ; .
(8.18) And, very briefly; 1 should like to méntion a recent activity - the‘Ibero-Amerlcan Seminar on Ve-  cational Training - which brought together last September fn La Coruna the qualified representatives of
19 countries within 84F gédgraphiéal and ¢ultural ambit - in both the Portuguesé- and Spanish-speaking  countries = at which Unésco explalnéd ite views on this curréhtiy vital tôpit. Thé Chalémati bf the Board  of Diréètorà of IABE and the Minister of Education and Séience of Spain, Dr. Cruz Martthez Esteruelas -  who 18 thé head of the detegation bf his country at this Conference - in an address delivered at the closing  séssloh of the sèminat, stressed the importance of Ibéro-American understanding on a matter eo vital to  the acceleration of its development. .
(8.16)" The, short account that } have ventured (6 give you - even at the riak of taxtrig yous attention - evi-  ‘dendés an’ bkemplary plece of fnter-fnstitutional co-operation’ which Would not have been s0 close - rela-  tively speaking - had it not at all times had the benefit cf the clear-sighted &tténtiori and forthright silpport  of the Director-General of Unesco, Mr. René Maheu. I am convinced that the best agreement ie poor un-  less there is a strong resolve to carry it out; in other words, the determination of those who apply it is  more important than the terms lait down in it. And I can assure you that the ‘arrangement that has linked  Unesco and {ABE since | have been Secretary-General of the lalter - which ls already quite a stretch of  time < could not have had a more well-disposed Interpreter or a partner more concerned for the common  good, which ultimately is that of the Member States the two organizations have in common.
(6.20) For that reason, the Board of Directors of IABE, unanimously following my proposal, awarded  Uneaco the Gold Medal in 1967 on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the signing of the co-operation  agreement that ! have referred to sd often. When Mr. Maheu, on behalf of the Organization, accepted the  prize awarded at a solemn ceremony héld in one of the rooms in this building on the third of May of that  year, he delivered an eloquent address {n which he said: '... my thoughts naturally go to those who are  responsible for education in Latin America, i.e, the educators and administrators of education, to whom
1 wish to express my admiration and my gratitude for the way in which they have responded to our appeal’.  He may now be fully assured that on this solemn occasion everyone In our countries who is concerned with  education has similar feeling towards him. He knows full well that those of the organization that I repre-  sent and my own personal feelings are identical and deeply sincere,
(8.21) In contrast with the foregoing is the sad duty of expressing the sorrow of the Organization and my  own for the loss of the eminent persons referred to at the inaugural session by the President of the Gen-  eral Conference and the Chairman of the Executive Board. Among them were several outstanding individ-  uals from the Ibero-Amorican area, including some who had close relations with the Ibero-American  Bureau of Education, such as Dr. Atilio Dell'Oro Main{, who had been a recipient of {ts Gold Medal. While  they lived to serve their respective countries and the international community, they will always be asso-  clated with the search for better ways whereby peoples may live together.
(8.22) In conclusion, 1 shuuld assure you that the future aim of the Ibéro-American Bureau of Education in  ite relations with Unesco 13 not only to maintain the existing Inter-institutional co-operation - which my  words have tried to reflect - but to render it even closer, and for this I am ¢ertain that 1 can count on the  support of those who will shortly be at the helm of the ship In ite new course, For our part, we have taken  steps in accordance with that aim. With the termination of the mission of Professor Don Manuel Sito Alba,  who was so effective as permanent delegate of IABE to Unesco from 1958 to 1973 and has been replaced by  an outstanding Uruguayan - Dr. Rémolo Botto, who for five years represented his country as Ambassador  to Unesco and enjoyed great popularity - it has been possible to establish here in Paris an office for the  permanent delegation which I hope will serve as an outpost constantly prepared to study those problems  that constitute the raison d'être of both institutions. Thank you very much.
9. The PRESIDENT:
1 thunk the Secretary-General of the Ibero-American Bureau of Education and I give the floor  to the Honourable Mr. Hugh Faulkner, head of the delegation of Canada.
10.1 Mr, FAULKNER (Canada):  Madam President, may I first of all associate myself most warmly with other speakers in  offering congratulations on your election. The unanimity of this assembly demonstrates the high  regard in which your country is held, 1f indeed such demonstration were required, Perhaps  more significantly, it testifies ulso to the personal reputation which you have established over  many years of association with Unesco. Madam President, we have made a very good choice.
10. 2 If I may be permitted, Madam President, I would lke through you to thank our colleague,  the head of the Portugese delegation, for his very important statement today. Canada has been,  and still is, a vigorous critic of colonialism in all its forms. It is for that reason that we wel-  come the new era of hope which seems to have dawned. As we all know the Constitution of Unesco  sets out twin purposes; to foster human rights as the basis for intérnational peace, and to further  the common welfare of inankind.
10.3 It'1s only to he expected that over more than a quarter of a century, our understanding of  the ways of serving these purposes should deepen and change, Such has indeed proved to be so,  as we came to recognize the significance of the development concept, and later of the importance  of social and cultural elements in the development process, Twenty-five years ago, subjects like  environment, population and cultura) identity were not recognized as essentially linkéd to the  search for peace and to the common welfare of mankind. ‘They are now incorporated in our think-  ing and in our programme,
10. 4 With some confidence, Madam President, I hope that the present gesslon of the General  Conference will take a further major step towards defining and clarifying the specific issues to  which we should address ourselves in the coming decada. Far the first time, a major interna-  tional organization has at least tried not just to respond to recognized problems but to forecast  the requirements of the near future and to gear itself to meet them as they appear.
10.5 Defining the whole range of problems that confront us nôw or will confront us fn the near  future {e without doubt an essential exercise. In our view, it marks an important beginning, But  no less crucial to our success in solving these problems will be the willingness of Member States  immediately to set about the difficult and complex tasks of deciding Unesco's priorities. In our  judgement, it ie imperative that we embark on this difficult exercise without delay. It will not be  easy, for the consensus we must seek must respect the different legitimate and deeply held per-  ceptions and values which are reflected in this room. It must be a constructive consensus which  seeks out points of positive agreement on our priorities, rather than a negative consensus based  on demands for concesslons.
10,6 It is indeed an enormous task that lies before us, but I suggest it is an exciting and essential  one. If we can succeed, evenin limited degree, we will increase the effectiveness and relevance  of our Organization, and we can accordingly expect a new measure of support from governments  and peoples around the world.
10.7 The Canadian Government and our Commission for Unesco have tried to take a constructive  part in this process of forecasting and planning. We think it most important that the work already  accomplished by Member States, the Executive Board, and the Secretariat be further advanced in  the course of the present Conference,
10.8 - A question to which my delegation attaches a particular importance is our desire to become  a full-fledged member of the European Regional Group. I shall have more to cay on this question  when we come to consider it in Commission, For the moment, let me only state that we believe  that such membership will enable us to participate more fully in Unesco's activities, and will give  meaning and substance to the historical, cultural and social ties that have linked Canada with  Europe for nearly 400 years.
10.9 One of the characteristics of Unesco which makes the Organization both difficult and at the  same time worth while, is thé extraordinary diversity represented in this room. Our Mémber  States, and accordingly our Organization, have to take account of every intellectual and socio-  cultural tradition of the contemporary world, Our territories range from places where it never  freezes to places where it never thaws. Some of us may be better endowed than others in mate-  rial terms, but there can be no hierarchy of cultures.
10.10 In Canada we have an analogous situation on a national scale. Certain aspects of our na-  tional experience hold particular interest for the gathering here today. In its linguistic and cul-  tural diversity, Canada reflects the international community in microcosm and we are prepared  to contribute from our experience, as we expect to learn from others.
10.11 The Canadian population is remarkable in its diversity. It includes our native peoples; it  includes those of us of Biitish descent and those of us of French descent, and it includes the mil-  lions of others among +8 who come from every region of the world represented hére.
10.12 This lingulsti¢ diversity has been fundamental to the development of Canadian society. As  such, it is one of the major preoccupations of our Federal Government. Our cohcern is twofold:  first, to ensure the cultural well-being of officlal language minorities, wherever they may exist  in our country. - We have launched a very large programme to ensure that members of an official  language group in a minority situation can educate their children and receive government service  in their own language. And second, to teach the minority language to the majority group. It is  here that we look to our educational system in taking a major step towards the creation of a func-  tionally bilingual society, The results of our experiments in newer and more effective methods  of second language training, particularly in immersion, have been most encouraging. Children  are starting to learn their second official language at an earlier age. We are confident that  through adequate education, language can become a bridge across the cultural distance that sep-  arates our two founding peoples.
10.13 In a culture such as ours, a man's search for identity, for roots, for an understanding of  who he 1s and where he belongs, can be harder and more frustrating than in a more homogeneous  and traditional society, We are gradually recognizing this fundamental fact about ourselves, and  our Government has accordingly chosen to play a central supportive rôle in this process of self-  discovery.
10.14 Thé unity of our diverse and scattered population depends in no small measure on sharing  of cultural legacies, It 18 the task of our cultural institutions and agencies to put Canadians in  touch with the heritage of the past and to allow them to participate in ¢ontemporary creative  activities. We are keenly aware that the soclal problems presented by our demographic struc-  tures are compounded by our géography. We are therefore especially ¢oricerned that our heri-  tage - artistic, anthropological, historic and social - be made accessible to as many Canadians  as possible. The "outreach programmes developed by our cultural institutions reflect this  concern, '
10.15 Our Art Bank invests $1 million a year in contemporary Canadian paintings, prints and  sculptures, and leases them back to public institutions where they can be seen and enjoyed by the  population at large. Our Touring Office operates a programme of subsidies tô Canadian perform-  ing arts groups, and to a few visiting companies, to enable them to reach those segments of our  population living outside our large urban centres. Through our national museum policy, we have  contributed millions of dollars to establish a network of museums and exhibition centres across  the country through which our major collections may circulate regularly.
10.16 No less {mportant than the dissemination of our cultural heritagh 18 its preservation for  future generations, Accordingly, steps are being taken to protect Canadian cultural property,  An emergency purchase fund has been established to buy back national treasures in foreign hands,  We will be introducing legislation to preserve the national heritage by controlling export, and by  providing incentives for acquisitions by Canadian Institutions. It {8 my pleasure to announce to- °
152   day that,’ after the enabling legislation becomes law, Canada intends to become a party to the  Unesco "Convention on the means of prohibiting and preventing the illicit export, import, and  transfer of ownership of cultural property" (1970),
10.17 AJ] of these cultural policies are animated by our desire to enhance Canada's sense of  identity and independence. We are committed to the creation of a strong aid open society where  the quality. of life will permit all members to develop to their full potential. So it is that our  Government has a special concern for disadvantaged individuals and groups.
10.18 International Women's Year now focuses particular attention on the issue of the status of  women in our society. Like other countries, we will be taking advantage of the occasion to con-  vene a series of conferences, seminars, and workshops to consider and advise us on issue of  special concern to women. Although our agencies will be making every effort to identify dis-  criminatory legislative provisions and to eliminate them, we recognize that the status of women  remains in substantial measure a cultural matter. Values and social mores are slow to change  and the objectives of International Women's Year must not be limited to a twelve-month period.  We urge that this concern be maintained as long as it may be required.
10.19 The experience of a pluralist State such as ours has international relevance, My own  Ministry in Canada is concerned with cultural policy and cultural institutions, and I can see in  our operation a great many areas where the international exchange of ideas and experience would  be mutually rewarding. - No doubt my colleagues concerned with science and communications and  my provincial colleagues concerned with education, could produce similar lists. Mahy other  governments must also reflect in thelr policies the diversity of their populations. We feel that  through Unesco we have much to learn from them, and perhaps also something to contribute from  our own experience. Although no model is universally applicable, knowledge of experience else-  where may suggest insights which will illuminate national concerns.
10.20 Experience in achieving concord within States points the way to global concord and to the  international peace to which Unesco is dedicated. It atcordingly gives me particular satisfattion  to see the incieased attention to cultural pluralism which the Director-General proposes in his  Draft Programme for. 1976-1976. This same theme appears with even more weight in document
18 c/4 and we fully endorse and eupport the emphasis which the Director- General has given to it.
10.21 My delegation will be prepared to offer suggestions in the various programme comniis-  sions, especially in the discussion on medium-term planning. I think there will be general  agreément that substantial improvement might be effected through the establishment of priorities  and targets over the medium term, rather than by working through the short-term programme  already in operation.
10, 22 Since I hope personally to take part in the general debate on document 18 c/a, I will not  enter into details at the present time. May I however stress our view that the orientation of: the  programme, ‘And its administrative structures, should be directed to the solution of major prob-  lems, rather than to the concerns of selected disciplines and professions. There is abundant  evidence that the disciplinary approach characteristic of Unesco simply results in the dispersion  of effort and resources over a wide range of activities. This is evident across the whole pro-  gramme, but particularly in culture and the socfal sciences where a lack of côherence tends to  dissipate the contribution that Unesco could otherwise make to the solution of important problems.
10.23 Enfin, Madame la Présidente, - je voudrais, par votre entremiee, rendre hommage au  Dtrecteur général. Pendant près de la moitié de son histoire le Sccrétariat dé l'Unesco l'a eu  À sa tête, après l'avoir compté parmi ses membres. Il n'a jamais manqué d'y manifester les  qualités les plus brillantes sur les plans intellectuel, administratif ou diplomatique. Si l'on  songe qu'il n'est-pas une organisation oh ne se retrouve la qualité de la direction qu'ellé a regue,  on voit tout de suite ce que l'Unesco, dévenue el forte, doit à M. Maheu. La délégation canadténne  n'a pas toujours souscrit aux propositions du Directeur général, elle ne partagéra pas non plus  tous ses avis au cours de la présente session; c'est JA chose normale et saîne, qui illustre à la  fois 1¢ dynamieme de l'Unesco et de son Directeur général. Ce qui ne saurait être remis en  question; c'est le souci constant du Directeur général de travailler avec habileté et dévouement  À la réalisation des politiques et des programmes de l'Unesco. Nous avons envers M. Maheu  une immense dette de reconnaissahce. I thank you, Madam President.
11. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Canada and I glve the floor to Professor Denis Zekythinos,  head of the delegation of Greece,
12,1--M. ZAKYTHINOS (Grèce). -  ll y a à peine un mols, entre le 18 et le 24 septembre dernier, un colloque mondial se réunis-  sait À la Sorbonne sous la présidence du professeur Robert Mallet, recteur de I'Académie et chan.  celier des universités de Paris, Il avait pour thème "'Biologie et devenir de l'homme", A la suite  de ce colloque, un "Mouvement universel de la responsabllité scientifique" était créé, Cette res-  ponaabilité eclentifique était celle de l'environnement naturel aveo tout ce qu'il comporte de oréa-  tions humaines. Venant d'un pays od le soleil, les pierres antiques et la mer « une mer qui n'ap-  pelle pas seulement au voyage mais ouvre de nouveaux horizons à l'archéologie sous-marine -, où
154   les monuments du passé emplètent sur la vie de tous les jours;- je me permettral de dire quelques  mots sur l'avenir dé ces plérres dans un monde en transformation de plus en’plus profonde,
12,2 ‘Selon les dispositions de la Charte des Natlops Untes, les monuments de la clvilisailon appar-  tiennent à la communauté universelle, ‘Tout individu a droit à la production comme à la consomma-  tion ou à la joulssance des biens culturels. Les grandes civilisations tout particulièrement, que le  temps et une opinion wnanime ont consacrées comme telles, forment une sorte de domaine public  où toute l'humanité est appelée à puiser, Les peuples créateurs ou détenteurs de ces bjens cultu-  rels, qu'ils en soient les héritiers légitimes, ou les possesseurs par droit de conquête, , sont tenus  à fournir un effort, parfois disproportionné à leurs moyens, afin de satisfaire à une demande tou-  jours croissante. On pourrait dire, avec quelque exagération sans doute, que les pays consentent  à abandonner une partie de leurs droits souverains et se bornent à exercer une sorte de gestion au  nom de la société universelle,
12, 3 Dana des pays çomme la Grèce, qui abrite leg monuments de ‘grandes “civilisations s =: pr, -  helléniques, helléniques, paléochrétiennes et byzantines, franques et postbyzantines, néo- hellé-  niques - la recherche, la sauvegarde, la restauration et la conservation des oeuvres d'art posent  des problèmes aigus : problèmes financiers, techniques, problèmes de protection et de sécurité,  problèmes liés à la formation d'un personnel scientifique toujours insuffisant par rapport à des  besoins grandissants, Chose plus grave encore, tlles posent des problèmes pour ainsi dire néga-  lifs, car, outre le coût élevé de la conservation, elles imposent une limitation au développement  technologique et urbain, ce qui entrafne très souvent des difficultés écononifques et sociales, On a  l'impression que la croissance et l'enrichissement du domaine culturel s ‘opèrent aux dépens de  l'actualité vivante, Il est certain que ces problèmes ne feront que devenir plus pressants puisque  la terre, fouillée par des savants, très souvent même souillée par des constructeurs, ne se montre  point avare de découvertes saisissantes.
12.4 Une participation universelle au bien culturel exige, bien entendu, une responsabilité univer-  selle. L'idée n'est certes pas nouvelles. En ce qui concerne particulièrement la Grèce, et pour ne  pas remonter à une époque trop lointaine, la création des écoles archéologiques étrangères - celle  de la France en 1846, celle de l'Allemagne, qui vient de fêter son centenaire, .çelles de la Grande-  Bretagne, de l'Amérique, de l'Autriche et de l'Italie - témoigne du désir de participer à une grande  entreprise, mais aussi d'assumer des responsabilités dans la recherche et la conservation d'un pa-  trimoine culturel.
12,5 Ce n'est pas suffisant. Depuis la création de votre illustre organisation, la société interna -  tionale tend de façon croissante à une organisation globale et systématique des responsabilités et  des entreprises, Seule l'Unesco, fille spirituelle de l'Organisation des Nations Unies, peut, sans  étouffer les initiatives nationales ou individuelles, -promouvoir ces grandes tâches que sont la con-  servation, la protection et la défense du patrimoine culturel, -Elle l'a déjà fait pour les monuments  de Nubie et pour Florence, ailleurs aussi, Ce qu'on attend d'elle est beaucoup plus vaste. Une  organisation internationale a esgentiellement pour mission de poser des règles, d'institutionnaliser  les activités, Un code universellement accepté serait donc souhaitable.  £: bo . . ' I - '
12,6 J'ai parlé. de défense. Les monuments deg époques révolues, les oeuvres d'art, les vestiges  des civilisations humaines sont détruits, détériorés, ou endommagés par le feu, par l'eau, l'air  ou le sable, par l'incurie des hommes, mais aussi par les invasions ennemies, par les opérations  militaires et par les ocoupations. Des événements récents n'ont fait que souligner l'insuffisance  des moyens de coercition dont dispose cette organisation internationale, Pour atteindre son but,  l'Unesco pourrait envisager d'oeuvrer plus systématiquement pour :  - Favoriser la formation de spécialistes capables d'étudier les monuments ot de collaborer a  leur sauvegarde ;  - Etablir un inventaire des monuments existant dans les différents pays ; : constituer un fichier  signalétique et photographique du patrimoine culturel ;  - Garantir et faciliter la libre circulation des spécialistes désirant étudier les monuments, in-  dépendamment de leur origine et de leur appartenance ethnique,  Ces tâches pourralent sans doute être confiées à un organisme gouvernemental dont la création fn-  comberait à l'Unesco, à l'image, par exemple, du Conseil international de la philosophie et des  sciences humaines. .
12, 7 Je ne voudrais pas quitter cette tribune sans avoir exprimé notre reconnaissance à M, René  Maheu qui, pendant douze ans, a dirigé de main de mafire cette illustre organisation qui oeuvre  pour le rapprochement entre les peuples et pour la paix. Et je ne manqueral pas de féliciter Mme la  Présidente de la Conférence générale, première femme, me dit-on, à remplir cette haute fonction,  qui s'acquitte de sa mission avec un immense talent, Merci, Madame la Présidente.
13. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the detegation o of Greece, and I glve the floor to H.E. Dr. Régle Chaperon,  head oi the delegation of Mauritius,
14.1 Mr. CHAPERON- (Mauritius);  Madam President, please accept my personal congratulations, as well as those of my dele-  gation, on your election as President of the Conference. I am sure that you will ably discharge
165   the, responsibility that we have placed upon you,. We feel confident that as a result of your wise  and enlightened guldance our debates will be conducted in a fruitful and efficient way.
14.2 Dealing as it does with education, science and culture, which are potent dynamic factors of  soélal change, "it ls normal and appropriate that Unesco should review its work biennially at con-  ferences of this kind, in order té meet the ever-changing needs of Member States.
14.3 In common with all healthy organizations that cater for vital needs of'huméñity, thé efforts  of Unesco have been increasing continuously with the years, in an endeavour to cope with an up-  surge of problems. “We fully subscribe to the lofty ideals of Unesco. \Ve believe that these ideals  form an integral component of any project designed for the development and progress of humanity.
14.4 Thé contribution of Unesco to the spread of new ideas In'education, science and culture the  world over is considerable. My country has benefited from this contribution in many ways;  direct ald to specific educational projects, advice and help from experts and consultants, useful  informative publications, general siipport from the policy lines laid down in the Unesco Constitu-  tion, With the help of this diversified contribution, we are now actively engaged in adjusting our  edutational system to thé new, social and economic needs of Mauritian society.
14.5 Your advice to us, ‘Madam’ President, in this debate on general policy, was to avoid too  much reference to local problems. Even the Director-General has supported this advice by say-  ing, in his eloquent way, that in our discussions, we sholld resort to wide synthesis instead of  close analysis. Although I am prepared to accept this advice as a general statement, I believe  that only concrete examples can do justice to living reality.
14.6 Having said this, Madam President, I will now quote my country as a livlig embodiment of  Unesco on the march. To use the words of Mr. Maheu, I will use my country to show how Unesco  inserts, integrates itself into reality.
14.7 Mauritius is a newly-independent ¢ountry; it acquired political independence in 1968, We'  inherited a society that was riddled with the numerous ills and problems resulting from iwo cen-  turles of colonial domination: a weak agricultural economy baséd on a single industrial crop,  namely sugar-cane, overpopulation, extensive unemployment; high'social terisions caused by  economic inequalities and prejudices arising from the multi-racial origin of our people, These  were the characteristics of our society at independence. Despite this heavy heritage of negative  forces, a majority of Mauritiana, inspired by the ideals of freedom and national solidarity de-  cided to embark on political independence.
14.8 Since independence, a short’period of only six years, we have been grappling with those  forbidding {lls and problems. ! will say straightaway that Unesco has given us valuable help  during this period, We realized early in our struggle that our problems had suck dimensions  that in order to tackle them successfully, national initiative should be backed by international  co-operation, both on a world- wide ag well as on a regional basis.
14.9 We alsd discovered during this perlod that the formal educational system plays a very im-  portant rôle in the social fabric. And that thé socio-economic changes of dévelopment must be  backed, and may even be initiated, by appropriate adjustments in this formal educational system.
14,10 it is in this context that we in Mauritius have been able to appreciate the considerable cun-  tribution of Unesco to the uplift of education, and the dissemination of innovating ideas in educa-  tion, science and culture.
14,11 In order to give you an idea, Madam President, of the task that confronted my country on  the advent of independence and the scale of the contribution which Unesco has made so far, I must  describe the nature of the formal educational system which wé inherited from colonial days.
14.12 To put the matter in a nutshell, I will say that our formal educational system wes an élitist  system, with a strong academic blas. It moulded an élité of intellectuals and trained the profes-  sional ten and white-collar ¢fvil servants we needed to run our colonial society. With the golden  opportunity of independence, animated by the spirit of doclalism, we embarked on thé immense  task of transforming such a primitive and lop-sided society, riddled with social injustices, into  a modern democratic society.
14.138 This tdak entalled building up a healthy national ¢onsciousness. It involved the definition  of ndtlonal gouls and the éstablishment of milestones of achievements towards these goals; arise  of the general lèvel of education; provision of training for the special skills needed by a scientific  and technical age. Above all, this task entailed the establishment of conditions for the complete,  continuous and harmonious development of the human personality, from cradle to grave. In short,  we wanted socio-economic development in its deepest sense.
14.14 To attain this, we have decided as a first step to gear our formal educational system to  the task of socio-economic development. We pay tribute to Unesco for having helped us to en-  visagé thie new concept of education. We intend to Implement this policy with the help of Unesco  and of bilateral and multilateral sources.
166   ‘14,15 In this context, we have been endeavouring to link our educational efforts with the effort  that is being made for economic expansion at both industrial and agricultural levels, With thle  perspective we are keeping our’ educational efforts under continuous review through a ""Curricu-  lum research and review committee’ and'through the development, by means of pilot projects,  of new areas of study in sciencé at primary level, in agricultural education and in technical  education.
14,16 We have been able to identify a great many weaknesses in our system. We have identified  the need to tacklé more effectively the legacy of a purely academic education; the need to broaden  our curriculum at primary level, so as to make it suit the needs of a plural society, which is in  the process of developing into a nation; the need to reorientate the training of our teachers, to  give them new rôles in the context of a broad-based education, with specialization delayed: as  long as feasible,
14,17 In our educaliénal system, we need more émphasis on educational technology and manage-  ment. We need a host of trained peoplé in many disciplines to carry on the jobs of a modern  society, in a sclentific and technical age. We need research in low-cost éducational technology  to match the limited resources of a developing country.
14,18 We are looking to Unesco and other International organizations to help us fulfil these needs.  We value immensely the help that Unesco has already given through its project for our Institute of  Education, We want to use this institute as a pivot for the reform of our educational system. We  trust that, through this institute, it will be possible to identify more fully the shortfalls of our  system, and to draw up a map of education for the years to come.
14.19 This institute is being set up ih two phases, the first of which will soon be completed. We  hope to use Unesco assistance for a secolid phase, which will allow for consolidation of the first  phase and prepare for new ventures during thé next five years of our National Development Plan.  The educational component of this plan we are preparing with the advice and guidance of a Unesco  consultant.
14.20 With your permission, Madam President; having cited my country as an example of  Unesco on the march, I will now follow your advice and resort to general considerations.
14.21 We agree in principle with document 18 C/5, the Draft Programme and Budget for 1975-
1976. We also support document 18 C/4, Analysis of problems and table of objectives to be used  as a-basis for medium-term planning. We think that this is a very scientific document and we  congratulate the Secretariat on its elaboration.
14.22 We welcome thé new pollcy of decentralization, and thé organization of regional groups.  These regional groups often havé common problems. They also provide special areas of co-  operation, which we think Unesco should favour. ‘In this connexion, I should like to draw atten-  tion to the recommendations of the Third Heglonal Conference of African National Commissions  for Unesco.
14.23 We think that there is a case for the re-examination of the rôle of experts in éducational  development. “As we say in Mauritius, "les experts ne devraient pas être seulement des oiseaux  de passage’ in'othér words, "experts should not be like migrant birds". If they are, their re-  ports fade into oblivion in the drawers of ministries, because they are inadequate to meet the  complex problems of living reality. Experts should be given full opportunity to acquaint them-  selves with local conditions, they should be integrated with their own projects; at least in the  initial stages, and they should be allowed to watch, ;advise, give guidancs and train counterparts.  We think too that developing countries should participate more actively in the selection, orienta-  tion and full use of experts and consultants,
14,24 In Africa, to which we belong, we find that the best expression of unity is in solidarity and  co-operation inthe fight against poverty and ignorance and in the struggle for freedom, dignity  and a better life for our peoples.
14,25 Thrée months agé, we hosted à Unesco meeting of experts on historical contacts between  Africa, South and South East Asia through the Indian Ocean. We hope that the recommendations  of this meéting will bé given the cohéldèration that they deserve. We are prepared té collaborate  in an tntérdisciplinary progrdmmé ot ‘historical and cultuiral studies concerning this area of the  world which his a éultural personality of {ts own.
14.26 My country is a small island, where great currents of civilization have met nd ‘still ‘meet.  We have a multi-racial, multilingual and multi-cultural society. We want to build a spirit, of unity  _ through this rich diversity. This fs ar experiment that may benefit'the world ‘éémmuntty" at large.
14.27 Just as We are hoping that Unesco id going to help us to solve’ ouk brobléme, 80 8180 Are |  we prepared to glve to Unesco ali opportunity to examine, study, draw and propagate’ thé lessons  from this unique experiment In cultural endeavour that may be of benefit tô mankind.  Gy
14; 28 Before ending, Madam President, ![ ghould like to pay gp most sincere. tribute to the marvel-  lous work and dedication of the Director-General, Mr, René Mahey, for the realization of Unesco  ideals. Indeed, he is leaving behind him a highly functional and efficient Organization, and not a  mere bureaucracy as some malicious critics from outside erroneously pretend. I should also:  like to give to his successor, the assurance ol our loyal co-operation in the discharge of the  heavy responsibilities that he ls called upon to shoulder, .
15e The PRESIDENT: > - Co So .  I thank the head of the delegation of Mayritius and now I give the floor to H. E. Mr, Suk Heun  Yun, head of the delegation of the Republic of Korea. .
16.1 Mr. SUK HEUN YUN (Republic of Korea); : ‘  Madam President, Mr. Director-General, honourable delegates, ladies and gentlemen,- I  would like, first of all, to extend my warm congratulations to you, Madam, on the unanimous  vote of confidence with which you have been elected as President ofthe eighteenth sesalon of the  General Conference of Unesco, : Under your competent and able leadership, 1 am sure that this  General Conference will be a great success,
16.2 I would also like to take this opportunity to express our heartfelt gratitude and commenda-  tionto Mr. René Maheu, our Director-General, for his devoled service for the past twelve years in  the cause of Unesco, - Through his tireless efforts, the.programmes.and policies of Unesco have  taken on a firm senso of direction and purpose, and I want him to know that the Korean Govern-  ment and the Korean National Commission for Unesco are deeply grateful to him.
16.3 Madam President, just two years from now Unesco will have served mankind for no less  than three decades. Unesco has grown significantly both in membership and in scope of activities.  During this period, that is, since 1950, the Government of the Republic of Korea, and.with its  active support and guidance the Korean National Commission for Unesco, have been engaged in  various activities with a view to promoting the objectives and ideals of Unesco in Korea.
16. 4 -The activities and projects undertaken have had one broad alm, namely, to meet the devel-  opmental requirements of Korea. A nation undergoing rapid growth is obviously. in great need of  expertise In many specialized areas, particularly in the fields of education and the social sci-.  ences. Special efforts have been made to help fill this gap by bringing in, through an organized  and co-operative framework, the ideas, know-how and expertise of many people. Simultaneously,  we have taken an active part in numerous Unesco-sponsored training programmes around the  world for the purpose of gaining knowledge and competence that can be put to practical use in  Korea. -
16.5 In an effort to expand the search for expertise in areas of relevance to Korea, our National  Commission in December last year spongored one of its most ambitious programmes to date, that  is, an Internailonal Semipar on the Comparative Study of Community Development, The purpose  of the seminar was to identify.the. obstacles and problems facing community development in many  and various national settings, znd to explore possible solutions and approaches to these solutfona.  For thie purpose, scholars and government officials from fourteen different countries were  brought together for a week of substantive discusaions concerning the direction, -procesges,. and  effects of community developrnent. The experts also considered possibilities of international and  regional co-operation in research and training in the field of community development.  ‘
16.6- We felt that this seminar would bè à stép forward in bringing Into focus the problems which  stand in the way of créative community development. It would also be, hopefully, a méans of  bridging the North-South gap, which is a hindrance to peace in the International community today.  we believe that the spirit of Unesco's dedication to a steady and progressive reform of society  provides an appropriate platform as well as a motlvatioh for both an objective study and the  achievement of the goals of community development.
16.7 The Korean National Commission his implemented the follow-up clause in the final resolu-  tion concerning empirical research into the four known models of community development, The  results of this comparative study of the models will lead to further clarification of problems, and  will provide help in a better formulation of methodology and techniques to attack the problems.
16.6 Significantly, Uneaço has taken the initiative in promoting educational programmes and  activities which are ultimately geared to the development of communities. Reorlenting education  to the requirements of employment, vocational guidance, the fight againat illiteracy, adult educa-  {ion and technical consultation for rural development are some of the Unesco programmes which  emphasize the rôle of educatlon in integrated rural development. .
16.9 tn conjunction with what I feel should be Unesco's further concern with comrnynity develop:  ment and related efforts in education, I would call upon all Member countries and on Unesco itself  to make new endeayours to inculcate a fresh Unesco spirjt among the peoples of the world. If .  Unesco {8 to contlaue to play an effective rôle in the community of nations, then it must not only  continue to expand {tg programmes but also increase its appeal to peoples everywhere, Only  when it is made more widely known can Unesco become a dynamic organization.
16.10 -1 belleve that one of the most appropriate ways of translating the Unesco ideal lies in the  more active exchange of educational, - sclentific-and cultural materials between Unesco Head-  quarters and the Mémber States, and among the Mémber States themselves. This will favour the  expansion of free exchange of such materials, and subktantially Iñorease the level of underatarid- |  ing among Member States, To this end, we have already taken steps to promote awareness of  Unesco, - Beginning in May this yéar, the Korean National Commission is sponsoring a weekly  television programme, known as the "Unesco Hour", Telecast each Saturday afternoon over the  Korean national television network, the programme's principal objective 18 to make known to the -  Korean people the world-wide s¢ope of Unésco activities, We have established contacts with other  National Commissions in order to obtain documentary and educational films for showing during  that television hour. It fe our desire to show materials from as many countries as possible. This  is our effort to achieve the goal of Unesco by promoting international understanding among the  peoples of the world, ‘ = : :  tion of young peopié. Consisting of more ‘than five thousand students from fifty colléges and uni-  versities, the Korean Unesco Students! Assoélation has sponsored, among other projects, inter-  national work-camps and international youth exchange programmes, ,
16.12 Our National Commission's most ambitious project for the coming year is the planned con-  struction of a permanent 80-acre youth camp which will serve as a place of physical and spiritual  education and training for our youth and as a meeting ground for international youth exchanges.
16.13 It bears repeating that the founding principle of Unesco Is the creation of enduring world  peace through education, ‘s¢lence and culture. Why not focus Unesco's attention more on youth?  In this way, Unesco will be Investing in the future. Youth is the beneficiary of our conteraporary  education and scientific achievement, but youth also moulds our culture.’ I'would suggest, there-  foré, that Unesco should stress more clearly the rôle of youth as one of its guiding concerns,
16.14 In ‘addition to its attention to youth, the Republic of Koréa has seen to it that its, National  Commission is truly rational in scope. ‘We have organized during the paét decade one local.  Unesco Assoclation in each of the ten provinces. These local Unesco Associations organize  Unesco-related programmes at the local level on their own initiative. They play a central rôle  in the cultural life of the local community. ’I would suggest that all Member countries create  local Associations or Clubs, which could lead té the formution 6f'a regional or world federation  of Unesco Associations,
16.15 Madam President, as Unésco approaches Îts fourth decade, ft is time té agsert its leader-  ship for the future. “So I should like to conimend document 18 C/4, entitled "Analysis of Problems  arid Table of Objectives to be Used as a Basis for Medium-term Planning (1977-1882)", This well-  researched and supbrbly organized blueprint contains not juat'the intermediate goals but also those  which Unesco should puraué ‘until it fulfils the stated objéêtives st its Constitution. Iam, however,  of the opinion that Instead ôf placing equal emphasis on the four problein areas, a graduated pFl-  ority list should be worked out during this session. From my own cotintry's viewpolht, and th  view of the situation in which we find ourselves, the first priority might be given to Problem  Area No. 4, namély The Development of Man and Society. ! believe that Unesco should place spe-  clal emphasis on improvement of agricultural productivity, accelération of thé industrihlization  process in developing nations and enhancement of the quality of human life. “These depend heavily  on science and technology And on our ability to make use of scléntiflt'and technélogical -  achievements. ) ’
16, 16 "Unesco 18 but one of many Intérnational organizations engaged iri the promiotion'ôf Intèr-  national co<operation and inderatariding for a peaceful world. And yet'I bellévé Uriésco's position  to bé‘unique atnong thése many {rtérnational organizations. For lt is Unéacy and Unescô alotie’  which atterhptd to“Inprove the quailty of the higher elements of humanity. ‘ Unèseô takes as its  responsibility not simply education, but preservation and advaricemént of civilization. :
16.17 "THe community of mar that {8 now fn the making will bear thé finpriit ‘of Unesco's work  currently In progress. We mubt not forget the magnitude of ‘this responsibility towards mankind.’  The {deals of Unesco are ours to transmit to future generations, who will invariably judge us by  what we are doing here today. ; 4 ,Ç
16.18 Madam Président and fellow delegates, I noté with intèrest that North Korea has become  a’ hiembet of Unesco at this current session, This newly-acquired membership in Unesco carries  with tt coñtain privileges and responsibilities. As‘à matter of general principle, ail Membèrs  should ét'iéast {ry lo understdnd each othef and co-operate among themselves to édvahcé the  cause of Unébto In accordance with its prinéiples. :
16.19 As you know, we have experienced many difficulties In our dialogué with North Koréa, ahd  at this moment, despite our bé\t efforts, the dlalogué is making little progress. Whatevér the!  obstacles and difficulties may bs, however, there 1e hô other alternative to dialogue and éxchangee  between thé South And the North for the peacéful reunification of the écuntry. ro tou
16.20 If my compatriots from North Korea find it difficult for some reason or other to conduct  the dialogue in Panmunjom, then perhaps they could discuss cultural exchange and co-operation  in this newly-acquired forum of Unesco, Now that North Korea has become a Member of Unesco,  I fail to see why it should be hard to accept this suggestion, made in a bona fide Unesco spirit,
16.21 If Unesco could somehow encourage the opening up of the two parts of Korea to each other,  thus contributing to mutual understanding, co-operation and an eventuaï peaceful reunification of  the country, then, Madam President, Unesco would have rendered a great service not only to the  Korean naticn but algo to the cause of peace and humanity in the entire world. Thank you.
17. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of the Republic of Korea and I give the floor to H.E. Dr.  Endre Kosta, head of the delegation of Hungary.
18.1 M. ROSTA (Hongrie). -  ‘Permettez-moi tout d'abord, Madame Ja Présidente, de vous présentér à mon tour mes com-  pliments à l'occasfon'de'votre élection à la présidence de notre Conférence générale, J'aimerais  remercier en mème temps les représentants des Etats membres de l'honneur qu'ils ont fait à  notre pays, la Hongrie, en vous'confiant cette charge.
18.2 Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs, on peut, je pense, constater, surtout si  l'on prend un certain recul, que, depuis la dernière session de la Conférence générale, la situa-  tion internationale s'est nettement modifiée : la tendance à la paix s'est neltement renforcée et  l'ou a constamment de nouvelles preuves de la force avec laquelle les peuples aspirent à celle-ci.  Le nouveau système de relations Internationales implique la coexistence pacifique des Etats à sys-  tèmes sociaux différents, et nous scmmies convaincus que c'est là Ja condition sine qua non du pro-  grès d'une coopération réciproquement avantageuse, efficace et multiforme de tous les Etats.
18.3 La tendance générale est à la détente, et celle-ci doit s'appuyer sur les réalités de notre  époque. Mais tout céla doit être complété par un désarmement progressif sans lequel une détente  durable est impossible. Nous sommes guidés dans les grands problèmes internationaux de l'heure  par la vqlonté de participer, dans la mesure de nos moyens, à la consolidation et à l'établissement  définitif d'une telle situation, el de rendre ce processus irréversible grâce à notre coopération  avec d'autres Etats,
18.4 Nous suivons avec un intérét particulier tout ce qui est 1{é à la consolldation de la paix et de  la sécurité européennes, et je suis heureux de constater qu'un nouveau pas en avant a été fait sur  la vole de la paix, du bon voisinage ef de la coopération des pays du continent européen, Il y a déjà  trois mille ans que l'Europe est une notion géographique, politique et culturelle connue, maîs elle  constitue en outre la patrie de plus de trente peuples et nations, avec leur passé historique, leur  présent et leur avenir ; et le sort futur de l'Europe est aussi celui de la génération actuelle - de  plusieurs centaines de millions de personnes de nationalités diversés ; nous savons d'aliteurs fort  bien que le sort de l'Europe ne se décide pas uniquement entre les limites des frontières nationales,  mais est de plus en plus fonction de l'évolution générale de la situation internationale, Ce n'est pas  ‘par hasard que depuis fort longtemps les grands hommes de cette partie du monde se sont penchés  à la fois sur le sort de l'Europe et sur celui de l'humanité.
18.5 Mais, malheureusement, l'Europe a aussi été à l'origine des deux guerres mondiales au XXe  siècle, guerres qui ont entrafné la mort de plus de cinquante millions d'hommes et la misère d'un  nombre incalculable d'êtres. La Seconde Guerre mondiale a trouvé sa conclusion depuls bientôt  trente ans, et la paix règne depuis lors. L'Europe avait déjà connu une guerre de trente ans, mais  n'avait encore jamais connu une paix de trente ans, C'est bien pourquoi nous ne pouvons que saluer  les résullats dès à présent atteints dans le domaine de la consolidation de la sécurité européenne,  et insister pour que les efforts conjugués de toutes les parties intéressées aboutissent le plus tôt  possible à la clôture de la deuxième partie de la Conférence sur la sécurité et la coopération euro-  péennes, et à la convocation rapide et au plus haut niveau de la troisième partie de la Conférence.  Nous sommes convaincus que le succès de cette conférence peut permèttre d'atteindre des résul-  tats répondant aux intérêts d'une paix durable ; et nous espérons être suivis dans cette voie par  d'autres continents et d'autres régions du globe. La paix européenne constitue aussi dans une cer-  taine mesure la clé de la paix mondiale, et notre continent soutient efficacement le développement  de numbreux pays en vole de développement ; Jes autres parties du monde ne peuvent donc rester  indifférentes à Ja situation de l'Europe.
18,6 Cependant, den événements se déroulent à l'arrière-plan du développement positif de notre  monde, qui nons mettent en garde : pas plus en Europe qu'ailleurs la cause de la sécurité n'est  totalement sûre. Nous le voyons dans l'attentat qui a été perpétré contre la souveraineté de Chypre  ou, pour citer des exemples plus lointains, dans la guerre encore inachevée du Viét-nam, dans la  terreur'que fait régner la junte au Chili, dans la situation explosive du Moyen-Orient et dans le  sort toujours incertain du peuple palestinien, ou encore dana le fait que de nombreux peuples de-  meurent soumis à une domination coloniale ou souffrent de l'oppressior raciste, alors que la liqui-  dation des dernières colonies africaines est imminente, et avec elle la possibilité pour les Afri-  cains de possédar enfin l'Afrique. Le peuple et le gouvernement hongrois sont solidaires des  peuples qui luttent pour leur Hberté ; ils appuient d'une mârdère soutenue toutes les luttes pour  l'indépendance et celles qui sont dirigées contre l'apartheid, ainsi que la formation d'Etats indé -
160   pendants ; ils afdent les nations jeunes dans leur travail d'édification, et luttent par tous les moyens  contre les fores réactlonnaires et agressives qui tentent de troubler l'atmosphère politique inter-  nationale. -
18.7 Dans cet esprit, nous saluons les changements intervenus au Portugal et les efforts faits par  cet Etat membre pour atte{ndre au plus tôt la conclusion du processus de décolonisation.
18.8 Nous sommes heureux de voir que le principe d'universalité de l'Unesco, si souvent évoqué,  a encore progressé avec l'accueil en son gein de la République populaire démocratique de Corée,  et nous saluons aussi {ci toua les Etats dont lea représentants sont aujourd'hui pour la première  fois parmi nous. Nous déplorons que - bien que l'Unesco ait fait des efforts pour réaliser l'univer-  salité, tant à l'occasion de la précédente session de la Conférence générale qu'à celle-ci - la re-  présentation du Viet-nam ne soit pas en harmonie avec les principes adoptés lors des accords de  Paris, et nous régrettons l'absence de délégations de la République démocratique du Viét-nam et  du gouvernement provisoire du Sud -Viêt-nam.
18.9 Madame la Présidente, en ce qui concernele Projet de programme pour 1975-1976, nous ap-  prouvons l'effort fait par l'Organisation nour concentrer davantagé ses ressources intellectuelles et  financières sur les grands preyltèmiesinternai!onaux, Nous approuvons l'aide prévue pour les pays en  vole de développement etles nombreuses actions menées dans tous les domaines pour faciliter leur  accès à l'indépendance, parce que nous savons bien que ces pays n'attendent pas seulement une aide  financière mais aussi une aide intellectuelle de ce catalyseur que représente l'Unesco, etque la coopéra-  tioninteliectuelle estutile et nécessaire à tous leg Etats membres, Nous tenons pour des tâches particu-  lizrement importantes : l'amélioration de l'efficacité de ces actions, leur appréciation continue et  détailtée (autrement dit un rapport constant sur les succès et les insuccès de ces actions et sur  les raisons de ceux-ci), enfin et surtout une étude préalable approfondie de la situation de certains  des pays auxquels on se propose d'apporter une aide (afin de pouvoir mieux fonder celle-ci) et une  simplification des méthodes actuelles, qui devront gagner en efficacité. Naturellement, nous con-  tinuerons en dehors même de l'Unesco à apporter aux pays en voie de développement une aide de  carastére bilatéral dars des domaines qui sont ceux de l'Organisation : par exemple pour la plani-  fication de leur instruction publique, pour l'introduction de nouvelles méthodes d'enseignement dans  les domaines de la biologie, des mathématiques et des sciences de la terre, de la géologie et de  l'hydrologie, pour la conservation du patrimoine culturel et pour l'élaboration de politiques cultu-  relles et d'information.
18.10 Je voudrais maintenant donner brièvement mon avis sur certaines parties du projet de pro-  gramme, étant entendu que nos observations détaillées relatives aux activités concrètes seront  présentées au cours des discussions qui porteront, dans les différentes commissions, sur les di-  vers secteurs du programme,
18.11 En ce qui concerne le projet de programme intersectoriel de l'Unesco sur la paix et les  droits de l'homme, nous sommes d'avis que la paix est la raison d'être de notre Organisation, et  que tout ce qui la sert et la renforce doit inspirer le programme dans toutes ses parties, L'Acte  constitutif de l'Unesco lui fait également un devoir de servir la paix d'une manière interdiscipli-  nafre. Nous pensons qu'une étude synthétique du "programme intégral du droit international de la  paix" et du "droit au service de la paix" pourrait utilement compléter son activité.
18.12 Nous sommes convaincus que les droits de l'homme, dana lc programme de l'Unesco, ne  doivent pas seulement concerner les droits des individus, male aussi ceux des peuples. Par contre,  dans les domaines où il peut y avoir une activité internationale unifiée et coordonnée pour l'appli -  cation internationale des drofts de l'homme, je crois que les organes spécialisée des Nations  Unies auraient avantage à choisir, dans le vaste domaine des droits de l'homme, ceux dont ils  pourraient avoir directement le contrôle. Dans cet ordre d'idées, 1'Un2sco contrôlerait les droits  culturels - les droits en rapport avec l'éducation, la science et la culture - tout en étant respon-  sable thématiquement des droits de l'homme en tant que problème scientifique. Des spécialistes  hongrois serafent prêts à participer activement À l'élaboration de ces deux programmes.
18.13 Madame la Présidente, je voudrais pour terminer parler du plan à long terme de l'Unesco  et du budget proposé.
18.14 Le Directeur général a souvent répété que noue lui demandions presque l'impossible en  réclamant l‘élaborat/on du document C/4 ; cependant, nous l'avons tous en main £ujourd'huf, et  nous savons qu'il représente le résultat d'un eftort Intellectuel approfondi. Ce document diffère  radicalement des deux précédents, qu'il surpasse netjément, et il reflète incontestablement, du  point de vue de la forme el di contenu, un progrès hotablé dans la planification à long terme de  l'Unesco, Il aborde également plus activement que les deux documents précédents les problèmes  d'actualité. Nous ne disposons que de quatre demi-journées pour en débattre, ce que nous consi-  dérons comme insuffisant, ne seralt-ce qu'en raison de l'importance d'un document consultatif  de ce caraétère. ’ '
18.15 Après avoir soullgné les points positifs, nous aimerions faire quelques observations essen-  tielles destinées à améliorer ce document, Celui-ci réduit à quatre les classes de problèmes, en  même temps qu'il reprend sous de nouvelles rubriques tout le programme actuel de l'Unésco.
18,15 -A notre avis, ce document, malgré tous ses mérités. comporte certaines propositions qui  aorterit du cadre de l'Unesco ou né peuvent alder en rien À Ja réalieallon des objectifs fondamentaux  de l'Organisation et qui, précisément pour cette raison, dépassent de loin ses possibilités  financières,
18.17 Nous regrettons que le document ne fasse pas état de priorités et ne propose pas d'allerna-  tives, même s'il est vrai que la Conférence générale est précisément fort bien placée pour élabo-  rer cellea-cf, en harmonisant fes priorités du programme 19 C/5, y compris ses alternatives,  avec lActé constitutif de l'Organisétion, dont l’abjectif principal est la consolidation de la paix,  Selon nous, le 18 C/4 permet de procéder à une sélectfon rationnelle adéquate et à des concentra-  tions dé programmes néttement nécessaires, qui pourralent et devratent être réalleées en ayant  Fecoùrs à môlna de main-d'oeuvre, à mellleur marché et avec une efficacité accrue, Pour nous,
11 éat {indispensable que le 19 C/5 soit plus dense et plus concentré que le 18 C/5, Nous aimerions  revenir en détail sur tous ces points lors du débat sur le 18 C/4,  t8,18 Nous ne pouvons malheureusement pas parler du budget proposé par le {lecrdiariat - qui se  caractérise, à notre avia, par une augmentation excessive - aussi élogieusement que nous avons  parlé du programme proposé par le Directeur général pour 1975-1976, Nous voudrions, pendant  les deux années à venir, voir aitribuer aux Etats membres, et surtout à ceux nv! oc rangent parmi  les pays en vole de développement, la plus grande partie possible de ce budget si forthiment aug-  menté, Nous ne trouvons pas excessive l'augmentation budgétaire de 6,5 % qui doit aller au pro-  gramme, mals nous protestons contre le fait que cette Somme ne représente même pas le tiers  dé l'aûgmentailon budgétaire générale de 20,92 %, ce qui démontre une fois de plus combien l'Unesco  est une organisation cofteuse, et quelle énorme fraction de son budget va encore aux dépenses de  personnel et aux dépenses administratives. Une chose est cerlaîne : aucun de ses Etats membres  ne pourrait se permettre de pratiquer un tel système budgétaire. Nous ne voyons qu'une solution  efficace : s'il faut procéder à la révision des méthodes de travail, il est également indispensable  de rationaliser le programme et d'examiner en détali l'activité de l'Organisation en s'appuyant  sur les propositions de concentration du Directeur général.
18.19 Madame la Présidente, la République populaire de Hongrie s'apprête à fêter le trentième  anniversaire de la libération du pays, SI nous jetons un coup d'oeil sur nos vingt-cinq ans d'appar-  tenance à l'Unesco, nous ne pouvons que constater que, si l'Unesco à beaucoup évolué à mesure  que des changements Intervenaient dahs le monde, les ébjectifs de son Acte constitutif sont tout  auñsi valables aujourd'hui que lors de sa fondation ; l'Organisation est arrivée à de nombreux ré-  sultats excellents, mais elle devra faire encore davantage à J'avenir, Au fil des années, elle a  attiré l'attention internationale sur ses domatnes d'activité, sur les dangers à éviter, sur les objec-  tifs les plus urgents et les plus importants, ef elle est progressivement devenue l'une des écoles  et des \ribunes de la coopération Internationale, Ses nouvelles tâches seront déterminées par les  besoins du monde d'aujourd'huf et de demain.
18.20 En saluant icl tous les efforis et toutes les réalisations de l'Organisation, nous attendons  d'elle - comme tous les autres Etats membres - qu'elle fasse encore davantage ; nous sommes  prêts à l'appuyer et à coopérer ayec elle pour tout ce qui peut mener À la solution des problèmes  brûlants de notre époque ; nous sommes prêts à redoubler d'efforts pour assurer, en profitant des  moyens et des possibilités qu'elle nous offre, la paix, la sécurité, la liberté et la dignité humaine  des peuples. Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente.
19, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Hungary, and I give the floor to H.E. Professor Dr.  Carlos Deambrosis-Martins, head of the delegation of Honduras,
(20.1) Mr. DEAMBROSIS-MARTINS (Honduras) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam Piesldent, ladles and gentlemen, delegates: on behalf of the Head of State whom I have the  honour to represent, and on behalf of the Honduran people, united in an immense grief, it is my privileged  mission to repeat from this United Nations rostrum our deep gratiiude for the spontaneous, generous and  immediate contribution from the peoples of the world who liberally sent first afd to alleviate the mental and  physical suffering of the Republic of Honduras mortally wounded by the catastrophe of a sudden and devas-  tating cyclone.
(20.2) Just as there are no words to express the sorrow of a people in mourning, so there are no words to  express thé feelings of gratitude towards those who have brought us through the alr, and across séas and  mountains, vast quantities of ald so that the people of my country could survive; and the human ald és well,  with its military bridge-builders, its doctors and corps of nurses, both male and female, its scouts, {ts  engineers and life-saving specialists: a whole mobilization of international charity. A thousand thanks to  all your countries!
(20.3) Madam President, fellow delegates: Forgive me if | humbly conizes that as a simple permanent  delegate I should have preferred to see In this forum, where the general policies of Unesco are discussed,
164   the Minister of Education of Honduras, former Vice-President of the'Republic and former.Ambagsador to  France, Chile, and Costa Rica, Dr. Alcerro {3 a specialized physiclan who has studied at the Medical  School of the University of Paris. As a Honduran educator he would havé spoken to you today of thé cease-  less and visible progress made In primary and secondary education in the land of Morazdn in recent years;  of the increasing number of schools and libraries established in'the cities and in urban and rural areas,  with an exact graph of the literacy crusade being waged enthusiastically by our teachers. But between
15 September, the anniversary of the independence of all Central America, and today, Honduras was on  the point of dissppearing from the map having received a mortal wound In {ts very heart. In the edition of
19 October last, the French newspaper "Le Mende" published a report by Its special correspondent in San  Pedro Sula, the second largest city of Honduras, with apocalyptic photographs and a text that said the  scenes "are indescribable unless they have been experienced".
(20.4) When the cyclone passed over the peaceful Honduran sky, like a gigantic atomic warhead spitting  fire, or lke the Charlot 6f Death drawn by thousands of wild horses, the buildings came tumbling down  like sand-castles, and thousands of clusters of human beings wera left under the rubble. Rivers and  streams overflowed thelr banks In torrents, sowing panic and dro.vning most of the inhabitants. The sea  invaded the towns. Some horrow-stricken families sought refuge on rooftops while others took to the woods  where wild animals, vipers and polaonous snakes lay in wait for them. Terror gripped everyone, The  correspondent of "Le Monde"; now on the Paris staff, who lived through the first chapter of the "Drama of  the Apocalypse", as he called it, is a reliable witness because our own vision, looking through hyper-  sensitized eyes, might perhaps be Inaccurate, The French journalist states that the cyclone, which had a  velocity of 200 kilometres per hour, generated a force ten times greater than that ofthe bomb of Hiroshima,  The hurricane destroyed the Atlantic coastline over a length of 500 kilometres and to a depth of 100. Such  unleashed fury of the sea had never been seen before, Rivers changed their course; gigantic waves swept  concrete bridges away; roads ceased to exist; river banks were mountains of mud. Everything was  flooded. \Vhole cities disappeared. The richest parte of the country were totally destroyed. A few brief  examples will suffice: a single enterprise near San Pedro Sula - a sugar mill - lost more than 1.5 million  dollars. Even so, its damage was not comparable to that which was done tothe banana plantations, Cereal  harvests were completely lost, uprooted by the wind or covered by the flood watérs. And while thousands  of people waited for help and rescue in El Progreso, Puerto Cortés and other communities, the threat of  an imminent epidemic grew minute by minute every day, since there was no water and resources available  for large-scale sanitary work were scarce.
(20.5) Thus the territory of the Republic was completely emptied of its substance, disjointed, broken up,  and yet at the same time beginning to organize, making a fair distributlon of petrol, thanks to Venezuela  and other neighbouring countries, ard distributing food, despite certain unfounded criticisms that were  made in the forelgn press of some countries whose correspondents no sooner land in the country, without  knowing the language, than they consider themselves fully documented on all matters, and able to speakon  all subjects after 24 hours on the national soil. Thus "Le Monde", whose witness we have quoted, lets {ts  imagination run away with It in expressing false and unpleasant opinions about Honduras, For example, it  refers to the "members of an American mission" (which it does nat name) who are said to have reported  “that a large share of the ald sent to the regions that had suffered most were being conflecated by oificials  (who are not named either), who seemed to be selling them on the black market". It is remarkable that a  newspaper we thought reliable should act so frresponsibly, making gratuitous insinuations against a  country that has been the victim of the greatest tragedy In its history. When France was 50 nobly and  heroically undergoing the suffering of a foreign occupation, bearing up under a huge black market,  Honduras, as was its duly, always behaved in a most chivalrous way towards her. No newspaper of ours  dared throw a stone at her. At that time we loved France all the more and admiréd her in her bitter  Calvary. For 1ay own part, Honduras and Spanish America are my homeland, but Paris fs my city.
(20.6) Madam President, fellow delegates: the question that I am constantly belng asked In the corridors  and patios of Unesco fs: How many victims did you really have? It is impossible to calculate their num-  ber. It may be twenty thousand but !t may be as many as eighty thousand, The spokesman of the Emer-  gency Committee of San Pedro Sula, the epicentre of the tragedy - has stated: ''Whole familles, entire  neighbourhoods were washed away by the waters; thousands of people were buried. Many of those bodies  will never be found. The sea and tiv: mountains that fell will constitute their eternal resting place".
(20.7) Another member of that Committee sald: ''We are weeplng over and burying the bodies that have  been found, but we are trying to keep the igure of twenty thousand from reaching a hundred thousand by  rescuing and saving from epidemics more than eighty thousand who are In grave danger”. Indeed, the  highly populated islets of the Atlantic coast call for immediate rescue action. A fléet of eight helicopters  was available for this task. The pilots sald that they needed 100 or 200 to do a really good job. "An ex-  pert pointed ¢ t that the situation would be saved if the American navy, which {a not far away, would send  one or two helicopter-carriers to Honduras."
(20.8) Three weeks ago the Tegucigalpa radio picked up a desperate call for food, clothing and medicine:  "WE ARE DYING OF HUNGER". As we have said, most of the countries of the world have responded  generously; but, unfortunately, because of the magnitude of the calastroph¢, that aid has been insufficient.  It must be remembered that Honduras, which depends on agriculture for ita livelihood, has been totally  devastated. Forelgn volunteers are working 15 hours a day. There are doctors who weep with frustration  when they lose a patient because they have been unable to give him an antiblotic or an antl-diarrhoettc.  Hondurans are on rations so that they may send packages of food to the flooded area that is cut off from  communication.
(20.9) 1 shall conclude, Madam President. Even though the rebullding of the country has begun, and the  efforis of the various ald corps have been organized with assistance from the army, the situation is still  critical, It must be realized that Honduras had never before éxperlenced a tragedy in which several cen-  turles of human effort were annihllated.
(20.10) Foreign correspondents have spoken of bodies being devoured by hungry dogs and wild pigs and |  even by hounds who have dug up decayed bodies. It was necessary to kill them and build funeral pyres to  burn that whole human mountain. Vipers and snakes killed off the defenceless wounded who fell exhausted  and helpless from the trees to which they were clinging, overcome by hunger and despair. Numberless  sulcldes were reported in the death zoné where people chose to take thelr own lives because they found  themselves left alone surrounded by all thelr loved ones who had died during the cyélohe. But why go on?
(20.11) In view of the national emergency, the Head of State, accompanied by the entire cabinet, went to  the northern part of the country.- where the richest and most Industrialized lands are - to observe at close  hand and measure personally the magnitude of the destruction and evaluate with thelr experts the havoc  wrought by the death-dealing hurricane, The President admitted that the wake of the cyclone "’constituted  an almost definitive blow to the national economy', It had already cost Honduras no less than 1, 500 mil-  lon dollars, a fabulous sum for a small State. No doubt by now the figure has reached the figure of 2,000  million dollars.
(20.13) The reconstruction of the country - as the Head of State sees it - 1e clearly atask for all Hondurans,  but it cannot be carried out without generous aid from abroad. One of the plans to protect youth {s a co-  herent programming of sites 80 that teachers and children will not remain with their arms crossed contem-  plating the places where thelr schools formerly stood, The Director-General of Unesco and the Assistant  Director-General for Education, on the very day of my urgenily-cabled request, delegated Mr, Sylvain  Lourié, Reglonal Chief Adviser for Central America and a specialist in educational planning, stationed in  FE) Salvador, to go immediately to Tegucigalpa and make an appraleal of the damage, loss and destruction  of schools, educational establishments of all kinds, Mbraries, etc., and make a full report on the matter so  that ald of all kinds could be given to the Republic of Honduras, through voluntary subscriptions, ete,  Unesco will launch an appeal {0 the world consclence to help the Republic of Honduras, [communicated all  thie to my Government and added that the delegallon which } head would algo make an appeal from this  rostrum.
(20,13) Madam President: we need to replace the echools that were destroyed in the regions devasted by  the cyclone. Children without schools are like hungry creatures. Many of the school bulldings that were  ravaged had just been opened at great sacrifice, We respectfully request from the world within hearing of  our appeal, and from Unesco, aid of every kind, not merely advice. Our people hope that the Member  States end friendly countries will furnish voluntary help to save the new generations of Hondurans &0 that  they do not loose confidence in the future. If each friendly country contributed a school and a library, the  future would be secure. Without schools and without teachers a people degenerates and sinks inte  barbarism.  {20. 14) Madam President, we should lke to take a message of hope and love to the children of our country,  If my dear friend and spiritual brother, Jaime Torres Rodet, the companion of my youth when we were both  pupils of Lic. José Vasconcelos, were alive today, he would approve this request of ours. We wish to show  these Honduran children, by opening new schools for them, each with {ts name and shield, and the name of  the donor nation and date of the donation, that human solldarity and charity are not empty words; that ati  today, when everything is being rejected, men in the dialogue that each one has with his own conscience  continue to love oné another as Our Savour implored them to do, Many thanke, Madam President.
21. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Honduras and I! give the floor to H. E. Mr. Mustafa  Uetündag, head of the delegation of Turkey.
22.1 Mr. USTÜNDAG (Turkey):  Madam President, ladles and gentiemen, 1 would like to greet you o. behalf of the Govern-  ment of a country which, on 29 October last year, between two General Conferences, celebrated  the fiftieth anniversary of its emergence as a republic,
22.2 One is not often able to have the happy experience of witnessing such a large gathering of  distinguished delegations elected from amongst the most able and responsible persons of their  respetiive countries {n the fields of education, sclence, culture and information, the very foun-  dations of social life, Unesco, of all the Specialized Agencies of the United Nations, seems to  be the most fortunate in thie respect.
22.3 On behalf of my Government, L would Hke to congratulate and greet the new Member States  which recently joined us.
22,4 Madam President, the General Conference of Unesco, which gave us an opportunity to meet  each year during ite formative period, has provided the same opportunity every two years since  the 1954 Conference, which ‘waa held in Montevideo. In my opinion, it has retained the distinction  of being the most important International conference held since World War 11 in the fields of edu-  cation, sclence and culture. We can sincerely maintain that the Uneaco General Conference has,  in view of the nature of the topica with which it deals, acquired values not so easily found at  political meetings. Its activities have relevance to the younger generation and especially to the  future of the human community. In addition to this, the fact that It has the quality of real uni-  versality has added to its structuré a further characteristic which is not found In any comparable  international meeting, This quality emerges from the value the Conference attaches to thought.  To be more precise, slnce universality 1s the essence of human thought and since above Individual  thought It concerns all humanity, It has validity for all human beings. Unesco, among the first
20 founders of which was modern Turkey, thus reaches the ideal of humanism and so is dearly  cherished by all nations, It le certainly a universal institution which Has been trying to meet the  needs of our age in iis approach to world problems and has already achleved some concrete ra-  sults from its efforts. Therefore, we can claim that each Member States, every two years,  enthusiastically participates in this important Conference in the bellef that {t will become richer  from the exchange of ideas thus made possible. We, on our part, feel both pleased and honoured  to participate in such a meeting.
22.5 Madam President, before we proceed to state our views on the Programme and Budget pro-  posais for 1975-1976, within the time allocated to heads of delegations, | would especially like to
166   extend my congratulations to you, We are delighted to see that a woman has been elected Presl-  dent for the first time in the twenty-elght-year history of Unesco. That you are a person who has  rendered invaluable service to this Organization for many years and who 16 very well known in  Unesco circles greatly Increases our pleasure at your unanimous election, We believe that the  eighteenth sesslon of the General Conference of Unesco will be enriched by your knowledge and  expert guldance. In greefing you it 1s also an honour for me to greet Turkey's friend, Hungary.  May ! also be permitted to congratulate and greet the distinguished Chairman and the members of  the Executive Board, who consider with such great care all the proposals made by the Director-  General, and the decisions and recommendations of the General Conference, thus directing the  activities of this Organization. A glance at the volume of documents pertaining to this Conference  is sufficient evidence of how inestimable ls the service provided by the members of our Executive  Board.
22,6 On behalf of my Government, I would also llke most sincerely to congratulate and greet the  Director-General, Mr. René Maheu, ‘who has rendered Invaluable service duringhis twelve years  as head of the Seoretariat and hig colleagues who have secured great prestige for the Organiza-  tion in world public opinion. A further point, which Turkish delegations participating in General  Conferences of Unesco have always asserted with great pleasure, is the high quality possessedby  both the Unesco Secretariat and the staff members In the various specialized fields of the Organi-  zation. The Turkish delegation has strong confidence in them. It is most fortunate for the Organi-  zation that it has within it individuals of such international standing in the fields of education, sci-  ence, culture and information. We believe that the Unesco Secretariat fs an invaluable interna-  tional source of experience and stimulus for its Members.
22.7 We a’. know what Jdeals Unesco stands for; ideals to which modern Turkey under the guid-  ance of her great founder, Mustapha~Ataturk, has been irrevocably attached, The world's nations  invested tne greatest hopes in it for the establishment of world peace, Unesco has been making  efforts to save mankind from the abyss of ignorance and has been helping natlons to understand  and appreciate one another through education, science and culture. France, herself a fountain-  head of science, art and culture, has generously provided it with a home in Pars and therefore  inspires the gratitude of the Member States. The importance of the activities of Unesco has  grown greater in the present critical circumstances of the world. Those activities will at least  have some effect in creating à means to free mankind from some of those prejudices which it  seems not in the least prepared to abandon but which bring it suffering rather than happiness. No  matter how slight this contribution, It means a great deal to the nations of the world.
22.8 1 would like to point out that the Director-General's reports which deal with Unesco's activi-  ties during the years 1972 and 1973 in great detail and clarity, have been carefully examined. In  accordance with the suggestion made by the Executive Board, I am not going to dwell on the activi-  ties described fn the various chapters of these reports. We shall express our views on the reports  and make suggestions concerning the programme for 1975-1976 during the meetings of the working  committees and commissions. The subjects that I wish to touch on briefly here are mainly con-  nected with the Director-General's written explanations about Unesco's general policy.
22.9 First, I am glad to say that both of the reports show that the work plans accepted by the  General Conference have been, on the whole, evaluated, improved and carried out with satis-  factory results. The following are the main subjects especially dwelt on by the Director-General  in order to increase the effectiveness of Unesco's activities: co-operation with non-governmental  organizations, especially with those in the A and B categories, and with Member States through  their permanent delegations, National Commissions, universities and other national institutions;  delegation of authority to Unesco Reglonal Centres for the implementation of the programme; the  fight against racial discrimination and for human rights; progress made in overcoming difficul-  ties encountered while carrying out activities financed by the United Nations Development Pro-  gramme (UNDP); evaluat{on of results achleved during International Book Year; improvement of  modern administrative techniques for use by Unesco's personnel.
22,10 Of these topics, co-operation with National Commissions and with universities, which has  recently been included in Unesco's programme, is of special importance. In connexion with  Unesco Regional Centres, our delegation believes that it would be useful to determine the limits  of the authority granted to them so that the extent of their independence could be defined clearly.  Although the activities, on a national scale, of the representatives of the United Natlons Develop-  ment Programme have no far ylelded positive results, we are of the opinion that those represen-  tatives have not benefited sufficlently from co-operation with related reglonal organizatlons, and  that they have had difficulty fn adapting themselves to the educational, cultural and sclentific life  of those countries, We feel sure that the Director-General will glve his attention to this question.
22.11 Both of the reports point out the inadequacy of Unesco's budget financed from the contribu-  tions of the Member States. Although this inadequacy ig to an important extent compensated by  financial means acquired from other sources, reaching sums beyond Unesco's normal budget, it  is a fact that programme studies have not yet reached a satisfactory level with regard to thelr  allocation to the one hundred and thirty-one Member States. We think that a practical evaluation  of this question by the Conference would be useful. It is difficult for ue to understand why some  Member States did not act more generously regarding the desired objectives at the time when the  budget was drawn up in the General Conference (1972). There is good justification for the
167   Director-General's comments on this topic. Turkish delegations have always accorded their -  approval and support for the Organization's budgets in proportion to Turkish financial resources,  sometimes even straining those resources. We are of the opinion, however, that it is a more  appropriate method for the General Conference to determine the ceiling of the Organization's  budget subsequent to a realistic examination of the programme topics, .
22,12 We approve the measures taken by the Director-General, either on his own initiative or in  consultation with the Executive Board and the General Conference, in the face of the devaluation of  the dollar which seriously inhibited the execution of Unesco's programme for 1973, The problems  caused by this devaluation are unprecedented in the history of the Organization, and the Director-  General deserves all praise for dealing calmly and courageously with the situation thus createdby  forces outside Unesco's control,
22,13 As the topics of aid to developing countries within the framework of the United Nations De-  velopment Programme were examined from several points of view during last year's activities, it  is obvious thai the Director-General has paid due attention to this most important question, touched  on by himself in connexion with the Organization's activities in 1972. We wholeheartedly support  the idea of revising and redefining the concept of international assistance; and we, too, believe  that it is necesuary to consider this assistance in the light of recent realities concerning the coun-  tries of the Thivd World.
22.14 It is difficult tc find another organization today which has investigated the place and import-  ance of culture in our age as extensively as Unesco has done. The conferences at Venice, Helsinki  and Yogyakarta ave turning points in the study of culture, Evidently the successful results  achieved at Venice, Helsinki and Yogyakarta have prepared the way for Unésco's activities con-  cerning the relations betweeh science and culture, the preservation of cultural values, and their  further development. As the Director-Gerieral himself has pointed out, it appears that the evalu-  ation of the regional conférences at ministerial level, arranged by Unesco with reference to co-  operation with regional organizations, is not an easy task. The reasons why the Director-  General draws attention to this question of evaluation are worth examining. We are glad to see  that, in the year of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,  Unesco is courageously trying to fulfil its important mission in spite of difficult conditions of  work, the gradual decrease in the respect shown to human dignity, and every variety of opposition.
22.15 We can say that during the years 1972 and 1973, the period covered by the Director-  General's reports on the Organization's activities, satisfactory results have been achieved in the  fields of education, science, culture and information. Our Government attaches a great deal of  importance to finding ways and means to assist the development of the Organization. Like all  other Member States, we are in favour of increasing the efficacy of the participation programme.  As regards National Commissions, we belleve in the usefulness of regional conferences, and  think that the national conferences held with the participation of European and Balkan countries  have been highly beneficial. Such were the conferences held in Istanbul, Hercegnovi, Athensand  Bucharest.
22.16 As I have pointed out, we shall express our views in detail on the four main sections of  Unesco's programme during the meetings of the relevant committees, 1 shall therefore end by  touching on a few points which we consider worthy of your attention,
22.17 No longer doea anyone doubt that, in modern terms, development means education.  Among the constant efforts in the field of education forming the backbone of Unesco's programme,  the primary problem, in our view, is that of improving the quality of education in keeping with  the demands and conditions of our age. The new programme provides opportunities for Member  States to meet their educational needs. We furthermore believe that more effective and lasting  assistance can be provided for Member States in secondary and general education, and {n teéh-  nical training. Since the quality of teaching is closely related to the degree of success achieved  in training teachers, developing countries will be deeply Interested in the progress made in this  area. The Educational Congress held in Ankara early this summer carefully examined educa-  tional problems, in view of Turkey's realities.
22.18 In this country of frequent natural disasters, programmes related to exact and natural  sciences are concerned with the problems of earthquakes and hydrology, and attach great import-  ance to training technicians in these fields. We believe that the recently founded European Sci-  entific Co-operation Centre will be useful in this respect.
22,19 As regatds the new social sciences programme, I would like to emphasize one point: the  Turkish National Commission has finished the preparations for the creation of a Human and So-  cial Résearch Council), parallel to the already existing Turkish Scientific and Technical Research  Couticil. We are convinced that such ah institution will be of great value in the developmént of  social ahd human sctences in Turkey. We believe that the programmé of such cultural activities  as are now universally acknowledged to be a measure of development, has been prepared with  care,
22,20 The section on the preservation of monuments and the Unesco agreement for preventing  smuggling and illegal dealings in antiquities greatly concerns Turkey as well as other countries,
168   The Turkish Historical Society, founded by Atatürk, has rendered an important service to hu-  manity by the excavations it has carried out, revealing the rich reséurces of Hittite civilization.  The Archaeological Museum In Ankara houses the most impressive examples of works of art  found in these excavations. Great efforts have been made in Turkey, especially during the last  decades, for the preservation of antiquities and archaeological sites, .A new law concerning  museums and antiquities came Into effect last year, One cannot sufficiently stress the import-  ance of archives. We are determined to improve the condition of the Ottoman archives in order  to make them more accessible to researchers, A new law on archives has been prepared and  submitted to the Turkish Parliament.
22,21 I would like to conclude by repeating before this distinguished audience that Turkey is  sincerely committed to the aims and ideals of Unesco. The aims and ideals expressed in the  Constitution of this Organization were the guiding principles shaping the life of the Turkish peo-  ple at the time when the Turkish Republic was founded by our national leader, Mustafa Kamal  Atatärk.
22,22 It was in Anatolia that-the civilizations of East and West met for the first time It was in  Anatolia that the foundations of modern philosophy, art and sciences were laid down. Turkey of  today, conscious of its responsibilities towards the common cultural heritage and aware of its  rôle in the future, is striving to fulfil its unique task in the formation of the new world which is  being created through the co-operative efforts of the community of nations.
22.23 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish this Conference a very succesful session.
23. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen, it is nearly seven o'clock;  we have to finish the debate for today. Three speakers who asked to speak today and whose names  appear on today's ilst of speakers have been unable to make their statements, and they will be the  first speakers tomorrow morning. They are the heads of the delegations of Egypt, Haiti and Togo.  Allow me please, in this connexion, to appeal to further speakers to observe the 20-minute time-  limit suggested by the Executive Board and accepted by the General Conference. I appeal to you  to do this in your own interests, in order to avoid the unplanned prolongation of meetings and  possible night meetings. The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 7 p.m,  La véñnce est levée à 19 h,  Se levanis 12 sesidn a las 19,