Forty-fourth ‘plenary meeting
22 November 1974 at 10, 30 a, m,  President: Mrs, JOBORU (Hungary)  Quarante-quatriéme séance plénière
22 novembre 1974, à 10 h, 30  Préaldente : Mrné JOBORU (Hongrie)  Cuadragesimocuarta sesiôn plenaria
(2081) aoe Jeudi: las)  EXAMINATION OF THE DRAFT RESOLUTION SUBMITTED BY THE WORKING GROUP ON  PEACE ON ITEMS 12,1 AND 12,6 OF THE AGENDA (18 C/PLEN/DR. 28) (continued)  EXAMEN DU PROJET DE RESOLUTION i'RESENTE PAR LE GROUPE DE TRAVAIL SUR LA  PAIX AU SUJET DES POINTS 12,1 ET 12. 6 DE L'ORDRE DU JOUR (18 C/FLEN/DR, 28) (suite)  EXAMEN DEL PROYECTO DE RESOLUCION PRESENTADO POR EL GRUPO DE TRABAJO  SOBRE LA PAZ EN RELACION CON LOS PUNTOS 12,1 Y 12, 6 DEL. ORDEN DEL DIA
(18 C/PLEN/DR, 28) (continuacion)  PACCMOTPEHHE NPOEKTA PE3ONDIMH, NPELACTABJIEHHOI'O PABOYER rPynnoï  TIO BONPOCAM MHPA 110 NYHKTAM 12.1 u 12,6 NOBECTKH AHA (18 C/PLEN/DR. 28)  (npononxenne)  JU Jyux on 111 3 1150 ots olor (HAL al dead) Go ue pid, LUN pad pod  (et ) (YA Up / bby (IA)
1, The PRESIDENT: -  The meeting is called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, last night my ruling was accepted  that 18 C/PLEN/DR. 28 be put to the vote first. At the same time the delegate of France asked the  Deputy Director-General to give his views on 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28, Therefore, before putting
18 C/PLEN/DR, 28 to the vote, I give the floor to the Deputy Director-General,
2.1 Mr, FOBES (Deputy Director-General):  Madam President, I do have some observations to make on behalf of the Director-General  concerning 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28, but before con.eying to you the Director-General's views on cer-  tain pointe of substance, which I hope will assist the plenary, I would like to make a comment  about procedure,
2,2 Madam President, I do not think I will reveal secrets if I say, as you know, that the Bureau  of the General Conference gave some thought this morning to the heavy load of work on this Con-  ference and the need to improve procedures, In fact the plenary has already adopted a resolution  concerning _ rocedure on the basis of the report from its Resolutions Committee, and in the debate  yesterday some speakers felt that the method of constituting working groups left something to be  desired, It is true, as you will see from some statistics that will be furnished later, that the  load of work on the Conference imperils its very life. This is a problem that has been creeping  up on the General Conference for several years and has become acute; One of the probleme, ae  noted here, is certainly the way in which such vital questions as general policy concerning peace,  coloniallam and raclällsm are dealt with, More than the type of working group which youestablish,  it is perhaps, as one delegate noted, the timing of the debate on the subject and the whole nature  of preparation of the ground for that debate that is the problem,
2,3 The Director-General feels that in the exam{nation of prog dures for the ndxt General Confer-  ence, one should also étamine Whetheir It Would ‘not be bette’: ih (He casé of suc major general  policy questions, to have separate resolutions on each one of these major policy issues, peace,  colonialism, racialiem and so forth, One can perhaps see the need for this when one looks at 41  clauses in a preamble to a draft resolution. Here the Director-General is speaking, I mustempha-  size, from the t of View of practical administration of the general poljoy directives by practi-  cal administéative mieaslirés: 1 medn Informing the édordtériat ‘ot the direétives} helping the Sec-'  retariat to bear those directives in mind every day, asking them to bear in mind the motivations  and all of the history that this Conference takes into consideration in giving those directives.
2.4 The Djrécor- General algo neans, when lookin at it from fhe point of Nya an edminis-  trator, that he 8 ‘considering'ths matter of public information, - If'we are to rédch the general  public, including young people, with information about Unesco, it may not be the best way to do  s0 through long resolutions covering too wide a field, For éxamplé I assume, Madam President,  that in the vote on 18 C/PLEN/DR. 28, you may heed to take it in groups of paragraphs and in broad  sections in order to deal with it at this plenary geasion.  …. ; ; -
2.5 But my purpose now is to assist the plenary to come to a conclusion, and more particularly  to assist the Organization to continue to make'its practical contributions in the fields of peace,  colonialism, the fight against ractalism and discrimination of all kinds, Some of thot > practical  contributions were presented to you in document 18 C/14-15, which was the Director-General's  report on Unesco's contribution, "Other practical contributions are discussed in 18 C/5. Others  were in the Report on Activities for 1973; 4nd in the Executive Board's study in depth on peace,  human rights, colonialism and so forth, In other words, the basis of work exists, The reporting  to Member States on that Work exists, We have considerable general policy guidance on these  subjects already from previous General Conferences, We have Ji in the General Policy Resolution  which you have already adopted, And we have it also in the basic authorizing resolution which you  adopted yesterday for the inter-sectoral programme on human rights and peace,
2,6 Madam President, please excuse me for this introductory remark on procedure, but I think  it does prepare the way for specific comments by the Director-General on 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28, as  requested by the delegate of France, My comments do not deal with any of those parts of that  draft resolution which are invitations to Member States, but only with those parts which invite the  Director-General, directly or implicitly, to éarry out certain actions or to follow certain policies  and procedures,
2.7 First of all, I would consider here operative paragraphs 22, 23 and 24 of the draft, Two ot  those paragraphs, 22 and 23, deal with the establishment of a new international economic order,  And paragraph 24 deals with multinational or transnational corporations. I invite your attention  to the fact that you have adopted a resolution on thé new economic order which makes paragraphs
22 and 23 unnecessary, You have alsd'adopted a resolution on transnational corporations, which  would appear to make the reference in paragraph 24 unnecessary, However. thisisanobservation  by your Secretariat, simply to facilitate your consideration of the resolution.
2,8 The second point, Madam President, is an explanation I feel 1s necessary: in paragraph 13,  and again in paragraph 18(d), the Director-General is invited to make resources or facilities avail-  able to liberation movements and to the peoples of liberated areas, My purpose is to make it clear  that in the Programme and Budget approved by the Conference, there is no specific provision for  resources or facilities, apart from invitations to liberation movements to participate, apart from  the directive that the Secretariat should give its time and make information available to these  liberation movements, This the Director-General will do, and in that sense he can carry out these  two paragraphs, 13 and 18(d), with the understanding that he does not have specific financial pro-  vision to do so in the Budget for 1975-1976, There would be available, of course, the provisions  of the Participation Programme, and there is authorization now under that Programme for grants  to be made available on request to the liberation movements, But I think it is important to note  that there are no specific financial provisions which would allow him to do anything beyond the  Participation Programme to fulfil these two paragraphs. They seem to imply much more,
2,9 My third point, Madam President, is simply to note the implications of two other paragraphs,  and here | refer to paragraph 9 and to paragraph 18(b),
2,10 I take up paragraph 9 first, Here the Director-General is invited not to associate Unesco  with any joint meeting to which the Republic of South Africa or Southern Rhodesia are invited by  other agencies, Madam Prealdent, this paragraph can of course be implemented, But if adopted,  it would appear to limit the capacity of the Director-General to co-operate in meetings, including  technical meetings; which might be held by the United Nations Environmental Programme in  respect of certain technical subjects; that is to say, we might not be able to join with the United  Nations under thie paragraph in a joint sponsorship of certain meetings in the fields of Unesco, !  simply draw the attention of the plenary to that fact and to the fact that in paragraph 10 one might  find adequate action by the plenary to achieve the same ends, that is, to invite Member States, in  their actions in the other agencies with which we may co-operate, to see to it that the desired pur-  poses of this resolution are met, But ! am simply noting this 86 that the Conference is informed  when it takes a decision.
2,11 The other paragraph to note is paragraph 18(b),. This paragraph concerns non-goverrimental  organizations, and I simply wish to call the attention of delegates: to the fact that this goes beyond  the present régime - whereby your Executive Board has examined and continues to examine oases  of non-governmental organizations having members in, or relations with, or appearing td rive  support to the apartheid policies in South Africa'and the policies of raclalism of Southern’Rhodesla,  It goes considerably beyond the régime now in effect, under which the Executive Board makes an  examination of all of the facts, and would appear to debar a number of NGOs from any relationship  with Unesco even though, after examination by the Executive Board, they have been continued in :  consultative status. There would also be cases of subventions now planned, which under the terms  of this sub- -paragraph would appear to be denied,
2,12 My last point, Madam President, concerns paragraph 18(c): ‘Here I must say that the  Director-General would find it impossible to administer this paragraph 18(c) without considerable  budgetary provision enabling him to make the necessary investigations and to continue to make other  arrangements for his banking and procurement arrangements. : Should this paragraph be adopted, he  would have to come to you and ask for immediate budgetary provision of a substantial amount in  order to administer such a provision,
2,13 Those, Madam President, are the observations which I felt you might wish to take into ac-  count as you proceed section by section with this 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28.
3. The PRESIDENT;
1 thank the Deputy Director-General for his statement. Now we proceed to the adoption of  draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28. The Deputy Director-General indicated in his statement that  we could perhaps apply different procedures on the preamble of the draft resolution and on its +  operative part. I should like to propose that we adopt the preamble not paragraph by paragraph but
10 paragraphs by 10 paragraphs, anc then the operative part, paragraph by paragraph, Point of  order from the delegate of Belgium,
4,1 M. VAN USSEL (Belgique). -  Madame la Présidente, hier au cours de mon Intervention dans le débat général, j'ai lancé un  appel à mes collègues pour que nous arrivions à un consensus sur un projet de résolution concer-  nant la paix et les droits de l'homme, J'ai cité volontairement les nombreux précédente qui exis-  tent dans l'histoire des organisations internationales, et notamment dans celle dé l'Organisation  des Nations Unies, J'ai rappelé les importants documents, les importantes déclarations et résolu-  tions sur les problèmes dont nous débattons maintenant qui, au sein de l'Organisation des Nations  Unies, ont recuellli l'unanfmité des suffrages, et j'ai rappelé à ce propos les méthodes de travail  suivies à New York, c'est-à-dire la constitution d'un groupe de travail équilibré, restreint, qui  s'efforce de trouver des formules acceptables pour tout le monde, C'est dans cet esprit'que je  voudrais, une dernière fois, lancer un appel amical à toutes les délégations pour que l'on accepte  de créer un groupe de travail restreint composé de façon très équilibrée et représentant toutes  les tendances et toutes les orientations qui se manifestent dans cette aésemblée intergouvernemen-  tale, un groupe de travail qui serait chargé de rédiger‘un projet de résolution susceptible d'être ’  adopté par consensus, Ce groupe de travail devrait, sur la base de tous les projets présentés par  diverses délégations, sélectionner les paragraphes, les idées, ‘les dispositions sur lesquelles  nous sommes tous d'accord et qui devront être retenues dans le projet d'ensemble,
4,2 Nous sommes (ci, je le répète, dans une assemblée des nations qui est en fait une assemblée  d'amis, et nous nous sentons tous en communion de pensées les uns avec les autres, Je lance  donc cet appel amical en souhaitant instamment que l'esprit de tolérance qui nous anime tous, 1a  volonté ‘sincére de concertation ét celle d'aboutir à une décision nous conduisent à accepter un pro-  jet de résolution commun, auquel une acteptation unanime donnerait uné force morale extrême-  ment grande, Madame la Présidente, c'est donc dans ce sens que je présente cette motion. Je  vous remercie,
5 The PRESIDENT:  May I ask you, Sir, whether you are proposing to set up a working group at this eighteenth  session of the General Conference, on the last day of the Conference, or at the next session of  the General Conference?
6. M, VAN USSEL (Belgique). -  Madame la Présidente, le voeu que je formule est que le groupe de travail soft immédiatement  constitué et qu'il se mette Immédiatement au travail pour mettre au point un projet de résolution  que nous puissions adopter à cette session, Merci, Madame la Présidente,
1, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of the Soviet Union.
8.1  TéhJH: KY TAKOB (Cons Conerckux COUHANHCTHYECKHX Pecny6auk). =  Baarogapo Bao, "Yomapum Tipeacexareñb. A ne MOry He BHCKASATb YÂHBROHHA no nosoay. nipea-  NOXOHHA NPOACTABHT6/lA B6ABrHH. Kak H3RECTHO, BYOpa, B ToùeHdé pox © NHEHKM YacoB, Mut 06-  CyXRanH BONpOC 0 XOAÔ H O TaHHI3AUHH aanbhofimen paGors! no SaABOpmeHKD H NPHHATHR pesonpuxh  no TakoMy BAXHOMY Bonpocy, xax sonpoc 0 _BKnane IOHECKO E B Re/10 MHpa, yKpennenne éo3onacHo-  CTH, AHKBHAQLHH Bcex qopu * >ROUHAAHQMA MW pacWaka, A ceñuac Mb C/HIHM MNPOACTABHTONA BpNB-  THH, KOTOpHH NPH3bIBAGT HAC ONATL OTMEHHTE npeanaymee pemeuxe co3nars KaKyn=fQ HOBYD rpyn-  ny, KOTOpaR AONXHA HAYATL paboTaTh H, TAKHM 06pa30M, BCE NOBEPHYTH BCAATH.
8.2 fl xoren Gu HAMOMHKTH r=aaM Aenerarad o TOM, 4ro PaGoyax rpyrina;, B KOTOpPoR GNA APeA-  CTABNOHH BCO NO CYMGOTBY NONKTHYOCKHÉ HANPaBAGHKR H TPynnt, paborana B COCTaBeé TaKHX NPeA~  crapHTenef xax Anxup, HHaua, Cupua, I0rocnarus, Eruner, I')IP, 3aup, CCCP, CoeaHHeHHMe  rater, PuAHNOHEL; HHAQPHAHAN ® Ap. Takum 0ÉpasoM, 370 6ut/1a NpeACTaBUTeNBHAR TPyuna,coa-  AaHkan pemeHHoM DeHeparbHo…i KoHdepeHuHH, KOTOpas Besa paboTy B TeYAHH® MOYTH Hepend, pabo-  Tan Ges nepeprsa, H NPOACTABHNA HA Bame peuexxe paccmorpenxe 18 C/FLEN/DR,28. B stom  NPOeKTe Pe3ONPUHH, KaK HIBEOTHO, OTPAaXeHH BCE OCHOBHMEO HANPAB/IOHHA HameR AGATONBHOCTH: BO-  npocH Gopebit sa MHP, pasopyxeHHs, Gopb6H C KONOHHANHIMOM H PACH3MOM, JIAKIHTH NPaB 46/0BE~-  Ka H 1.4, [I09TOMY % HO BHXY HHKAKHX OCHOBAHHH, UTOOGH MH OTMOHANH BHOpPAWIHE® peueHHe,
8.3 HHKTO He BMCTYNaj NPOTHB BAWlEro PWEHHA, YTO MEI COTOAHA HAYHOM OGCYXAOHHE FNPOOKTA  posoannun 18 C/PLEN/DR:28. TlosTromuy À POMHTONBHO BO3PAXAD NPOTHB NPOANOXeHHA Benbruu,  CHMTaR ero HECBOOBPOMOHHHM H 6030CHOBATONLHMM, F1 Npomy Bac NPUCTYNHTH HENOCPpSACTBOHHO  K o6cyxAeHHD npoekra pesonmuxx 18 C/PLEN/DR.28,, npeactapnenxoro Pa6oueñ rpynnoft H noa-  ROPpxEHHOFO SAGCL MHOTOYHONGHHBMH AONGTAUHSMH. Bnarosapm pac, )
(8.1) M. L,N. KOUTAKOV (Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques). - (Traduit du russe, )  Merci, Madame la Présidente, Je ne puis cacher ma surprise à l'égard de la proposition du délégué  de la Belgique, Comme on le sait, hier, pendant plus de trois heures, nous avons discuté de la marche et  de l'organisation de nos travaux ultérieurs concernant la rédaction finale et l'adoption de la résolution sur  une question aussi importante qué celle de la contribution de l'Unesco À la paix, au renforcement de la  sécurité, à l'élimination de toutes les formes de colonialisme et de racisme. Et maintenant le délégué de  la Belgique nous invite à rapporter une décision antérieure, à créer un nouveau groupe qui devrait se  mettre au travail, enfin à revenir sur nos pas.
(8.2) Je voudrals rappeler aux délégués que le groupe de travail, où étaient représentés toutes les orien-  tations et groupes politiques existants, se composait de représentants de pays tels que l'Algérie, l'Inde,  la Syrie, la Yougoslavie, l'Egypte, la République démocratique allemande, le Zaïre, l'URSS, les Etats-  Unis, les Philippines, nes Pays-Bas, etc. C'était donc un grouge représentatif créé par décision de la  Conférence générale, qui a travaillé sans relâche pendant près d'urie semaine et a soumis à votre examen  le document 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28, Dans ce projet de résolution, comme on le sait, sont reflétées les prin-  cipales lignes de notre action : lutte pour la paix, désarmement, lutte contre le colontalisme et le racisme,  sauvegarde des droits de I'hdmme, etc, Je ne vols donc aucune raison de changer ce qui a été décidé hier.
(8.3) Personne n'a contesté votre décision de commencer aujourd'hui l'examen du projet 18 C/J'LEN/  DR.28, Je m'élève donc résolument contre la proposition de la Belgique que j'estime fnopportuse et non  fondée. Je vous demande de procéder sang délai à l'examen du projet de résoluilon 18 C/PLEN/DR. 28 pré-  genté par le groupe de travail et appuyé Ici par de nombreuses délégations, Je vous remercie,
9. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of the Philippines.
10.1 Mrs. ALDA BA-LIM (Philippines):  Thank you, Madam Chairman, In the light of the difficulties we are faced with this morning  from the remarks of both the distinguished representatives of Belgiuin and of the USSR, allow me  as a member of the Working Group briefly - just briefly, Madam President - to add another  analysis, perhaps to find the cue, the leads, or the answers on how best to read and evaluate the  draft resolution as a whole before you begin approving it paragraph by paragraph, I would like to  analyse briefly the sources of our difficulty in the Group and, on the basis of this analysis, perhaps  find the lead to a better way of approving document 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28,
10.2 Madam President, when the plenary, through you, decided to convene a working party to  put together the various peace resolutions, the mandate appeared to present no problems at all,  After all, is this not a classical Unesco technique to resolve 135 minds, differences, divergences,  into one draft resolution by the simple expedient of putting together a representative group from  among sponsors of the various draft resolutions? And after all, are not the objectives of the Wo-k-  ing Group to produce a masterpiece of a draft resolution on these human rights and security, a  common aspiration, a yearning deep in the heart of all of us, of every man? For peace, human  rights, security, as I have always said, is like motherhood, Nobody debates motherhood; we have  all come from a mother!
10,3 The draft resolution difficulty, Madam President, began when the plenary said go forth and  produce to a small group of men and women whose idiom, whose concepts of expréssing the mean-  ing of peace, greaily differed, It is as if you had dsked Tchaikovsky and Stravinsky, or even  Brahms and Bach," to go forth and put together their genius into one concerto or piecé. Or to put  it in the parlance of the painter, you put together a Romantic painter and à Cubist painter to pro-  duce the painting of peace. Should such an unlikely situation ever happen, I wonder if hearing  such a piece of music we could ever feel the same sense of faithfulness to the composer!s style  as when we Meten alone and separafely to Tchaikovsky or separately to Stravinsky, ‘his lg the  way with people; and we in Unesco are people, 1 personally van enjoy listening to Tchaikovsky, or  take great delight in looking at the romantic painting of da Vinci, but if I try, 1 can also enjoy.  modern painting and even electronic music, ’ ’
10.4 As a epôtisor of tht draft resélution in document 18 C/PLEN/DR, 18, we feel that In our text  we were giving péade, human rights and securily à more humane look, ‘an earthier Interpretation,  a meaning whith thé hungry man-in-the-street of Boribay or South Africa or Peru or the Philip-  pines, or even Amsterdam, can urderstend, As has been said before by many of our colleagues,
462   the definition of peace in terms of colonialism, racism, neo-colonfaliam, apartheid, imperialism,  and all the "isms" are too far removed from tle man-in-the-street,: from the masses. When I  first heard the term hegemony, I must confess, I went to the nearest dictionary to see what it - .  meant,’ Now I know, ' Though defined by the ""iems' which appear in the ‘resolutions of the thirteenth  fifteenth, sixteenth and seventeenth sessions, it is still meaningless to the man-in-the-street, The  aponsors of the draft resolution in document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 18 said "let's bé'a novelty, Let's be  relevant and contemporary"; and they defined it in terms of human rights for people, the unemployed,  the hungry, the malnourished, the chronically ill, the majority of the peoples of the world, victims,  still viet'ms,’ of sotial injustice and social inequities; and for whom you and I in Unesco are com-  mited to serve, Why not?
10.5 And thus, Madam President, when we began to combine the texts of the various draft resolu-  tions, this widely differing style of defining this idiom, this style of expression for peace and  human rights - for more than 70 percent of the peoples of tha world have not as yet enjoyed guch  rights and can thereby find no peace on earth - the trouble began, . I-shall not repeat the details,  The distirguished Minister of the Netherlands spoke of all that, 1 am glad she has chronicled all  her feelings of frustration, because we can all learn many lessons for our future work,
10.6 And now, Madam President, as we go over the draft resolution in document 18 C/PLEN/DR: 28,  we will find strong evidence of what I venture to call incoherence in the idioms, in the style, in the  expression - which'my distinguished colleague calle a watered-down version - of the original draft  resolution In document 18 C/PLEN/DR, 18. Let me just give an example, Take the fifteenth para-  graph in the preamble of the consolidated draft which begins, "Considering that peace, in addition  to the absence of armed conflict... and leads inevitably to violence”, which appears, indeed, much  more positive in the original wording (18 C/PLEN/DR, 18) when it says that peace does not consist  solely in the absence of armed conflict, it is also - and here we begin to put the definitive and posi-  tive definition - justice, mutual respect, the building of an international society in which man can  enjoy his share of the world's intellectual and material resources, The fifteenth paragraph as it  now appears for our consideration is considerably weakened, I must say.
10.7 And taking another example from the operative part: paragraph 7, Here paragraph 7 is'a  redefinition of the original paragraph in the draft resolution in document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 18 which  declares that true international co-operation is (a),.., (b)..., (c)... and so forth. In the new  raft resolution (18 C/PLEN/DR. 28) It begins to look like a repetition of the various Constitutions  which have no meaning for the man-in-the-street for whom we are working.
10,8 So there it is, the new resolution 1s much lees than a pérfect piece in human rights resolu.  tions. If it sounds discordant in parts, revisions are obvious, And here the Group, indeed, worked  so hard, I also would like to add my compliments and my great tribute to our Chairman in the  Working Group, He tried very hard to.put diverging idioms and concepts into'bne coherent draft  resolution, We found the exercise of working together to produce the consolidated resolution very  difficult indeed, but wé all emerged with heads bloody but unbowed,
10,9 In conclusion, Madam President, my appeal therefore is fn part that when we begin to approve  this lengthy consolidated draft resolution, paragraph by paragraph, or group by group, we from the  Working Group would like to come in at the anpropriate moment, Thank you very much,
11, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will understand, particularly those who parti-  cipated in the work of the night session last night, that we cannot continue the debate, Therefore,  I appeal to the ensuing speakers to make procedural proposals and not to continue the debate. We  had a debate of three hours last night, If we continue in this way we shall finish the General Con-  ference in a week, I give the floor to the delegate of Senegal on a point of order,
12. M. DIENE (Sénégal). -  Madame la Présidente, ma délégation voudrait poser une question de procédure. La proport-  tion est-eile recevable ?
13, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Péru on a point of order,
(14) M. CHIAPPO (Pérou). = (Traduit de J'espagnol. )  Madame la Présidente, je me permete de vous rappeler respectueugement que vous avez décidé hier.  soir de mettre Immédiatement aux voix le document 18 C/PLEN/DR.28, Vous avez demandé sl quelqu'un  s'y opposalt et personne ne s'est manifesté ; Je demande donc formellement, Madame la Présidente, que  le document soit mis aux voix, Je vous remercie,
15, The PRESIDENT: ot  May I ask the delegate of Peru whether he proposes to close the debate and whether his was a  formal motion of closure?
16, El Sr.. CHIAPPO (Perû):.  Señiora Presidenta: :Anoche usted tomé la decisién de que se pusiera a votacién inmediata-  mente ‘el documento 18 C/PLEN/DR. 28; yo le pido respetuosamente que aplique su propia deci-  sién, ‘porque anoche nadie la impugné. For lo tanto, no hay razén para seguir debatiendo algo  que se ha debatido ya mucho, y pido que en virtud de su propia decision someta a votaciôn el do-  cumenio 18 C/PLEN/DR. 28, Muchas gracias.  aa M..CHIAPPO (Pérou). - (Traduit de l'espagnol, )  , Madame la Présidente, vous avez “Acité hier soir que le document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 28 serait mis aux  “voix immédiatement ; je vous demande respectueusement d'appliquer votre décision à laquelle personne ne  s'est opposé hier, Il n'y a donc p~$ de zr.fson de continuer à débattre d'un sujet qui a déjà été longuement  débattu ; et je demande qu'en vertu ds “otre propre décision, vous mettiez aux voix le document 18 C/PLEN/  DR, 28. Je vous remercie,
17.1 The PRESIDENT: -  - Yes, may I reply to thé delegate of peru, Rule 73 - Points of order - reads-as follows: "In  the course of a debate, any Member State or Assoclate' Member may raise a polnt of order, pnd  such point of order shall be immediately decided by the President, An appeal may be made against  the ruling of the President. It shall be put to the vote immediately, and the President's ruling  shall stand unless overruled by a majority of the Member States present and voting",
17,2 Well, in accordance with Rule 73, I rule that draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28 shall be  put to thie vote immediately, Does anybody challenge my ruling?
17.3 The delegate of Dahomey has the floor.
18.1 M, BOISSIER-PALUN (Dahomey). -  Madame la Présidente, je n'envigage pas de contester une décision de la présidence fondée  sur l'article 73 de notre Règlement intérieur. Ce que je conteste, c'est la motion sur laquelle le  Bureau a pris sa décision. Hier il n'était pas question de mettre immédiatement aux voix le 18 C/  PLEN/DR. 28 : il était question de choisir entre la prise en considération du 18 C/PLEN/DR. 18  et celle du 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28. Le Bureau a décidé que la discussion s'engagerait sur le 18 C/  PLEN/DR, 28 ; c'est cé qui a été compris hier et c'est à cela que tout le monde a souscrit,
18.2 J'at personnellement des amendements à présenter au 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28, et si nous pre-  nons ce document en considération, il faut l'examiner de telle façon que chacun puisse soumettre  ses amendements au moment opportun, Il ne saurait en tout cas être question de le mettre direc-  tement aux voix. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
19. The PRESIDENT:  Yes, this is another question Sir. My ruling last night was to put to the vote the draft resolu.  tion in document 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28 first, Of course, any delegate has the right to submit as  many amendments as he wishes, My putting the draft ‘resolution in document 18 C/PLEN/DR, 18  to the vote is another question, I give the floor to the Federal Republic of Germany.
20,1 Mr, PE1ERSEN (Federal Republic of Germany):  Mnadam President, I thank you very much. I should like to recall that it was my delegation  which yesterday evening during the last minutes of our debate evoked Rule 73, and I was, in fact,  very satisfied that you took up this suggestion so graciously and made the ruling.
20,2 I have to confess, however, Madam President, that I interpreted your ruling in a somewhat  different way, rather in the way in which the distinguished delegate from Dahomey also understood  it. I was convinced that the question was solely whether one should deal with the draft resolution  in document 18 C/PLEN/DR, 18 first, or with the one in document 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28, and I under-  stood you to rule that the draft resolution in document 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28 would have priority, and  nobody challenged this ruling, I would have been the last one to challenge it; I only wanted you to  let us know your decision, which we would then happily accept.
20,3 Madem President, we are in a somewhat different situation now, and I asked for the floor  immediately after the distinguished delegate of Belgium has spoken in order to make two observa-  tions as far as the procedure js concerned, My delegation left yesterday's night session with a  feeling of uneasiness and concern, and I noticed that this feeling was shared by a great many dele-  gations, because we felt that the consensus which prevailed during the whole of this General Con-  ference between all Member States, and I am not in a position to make any exception if I say it,  that this spirit would be replaced by antagonism and by a polarization - the last thing my delegation  would want, Madam President, I say this in order wholeheartedly to support the suggestion made  by the Belgian delegate. The suggestion was, if 1 may recall it, that we form'a arnall working  group which would not have the same task as the Working Group that has presented the consolidated  draft resolution, but which would rather try to sort out those formulations and those paragraphs  which we can expect might find ‘general consent fn the plenary meeting of this General Conference.  This, Madam President, would not take much time,
20,4 1 formally support the proposal made by the Belgian delegate, and I would wish that we take  a vote on this procedural motion, Thank you, Madam President,
21, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Algeria on à point of order, '
22, M, DERRADII (Algérie), -  Madame la Présidente, en vertu de l'article 76 du Règlement intérieur, je demande la clôture  du débat et la mise aux voix du projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28, étant entendu que nous  nous inclinerons devant la décision que vous prendrez quant aux parties de ce texte qui seront  votées globalement ou séparément, étant entendu en outre que les éventuels amendements proposés  par les honorables délégués pourront être examinés, Mais au stade actuel, je demande la clôture  du débat et la mise aux voix du projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28,
23, The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, Rule 76 reads as follows: "A Member State or Associate Member may  at any time move the closure of the debate, whether or not any other speaker has signified his wish  to take part in the discussion, If application is made for permission to speak against the closure,  it may be accorded to not more than two speakers". Does anybody wish to speak against the motion  to close the debate? The delegate of the United Kingdom.
24,1 Mr, MARTIN (United Kingdom):  Thank you, Madam President, I have no desire whatever to see the debate continue, but I  speak against the closure now because I think there is st!ll a chance that if we adopted the proposi-  tion put forward by the delegate of Belgium, the Conference could be helped to a better way out of  our present difficulty and to a better solution of the agenda item that we are discussing.
24,2 I appreciate very much indeed the efforts of the Working Group. I have had the pleasure of  working with its Chairman on a number of occasions and I know his deep desire to help the Organi-  zation towards consensus, Nevertheless, and particularly after I had heard the comments of the  Deputy Director-General this morning, 1 do not believe that 18 C/PLEN/DR. 28 as it now stands,  even if it were passed by a majority, would be in the best interest of the Organization. Nobody  wants to vote against a resolution dealing with peace and human rights, but it is possible that if
18 C/PLEN/DR. 28 remains as it is some of us will have to.
24,3 Now I think the proposal of the delegate of Belgium could help us, It need not be a long task;  it is not a question of fundamental revision; it is perhaps simply a question of leaving out some  paragraphs and shortening the resolution, I would support that suggestion, Madam President, and  it is only for that reason, in order to take a vote on the Belgian suggestion, that I now oppose the  closure of the debate. Thank you. ’
25, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, ! give the floor to the delegate of France,
26. M. BATAULT (France), -  Madame la Présidente, je voulais simplement dire que, pour tenter de faire l'unartmité de  cette assemblée sur un texte, je m'associe entièrement à ce que viennent de dire les représen-  tants de la République fédérale d'Allemagne et du Royaume-Uni concernant la proposition présen-  tée par l'honorable délégué ‘de la Belgique. Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente.
27.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Now I put to the vote the motion submitted by the delegate of Algeria to close  the debate.  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
27.2 The motion to close the debate has been adopted by 60 votes to 28, with 21 abstentions.
27.3 I give the floor to the delegate of Senegal for an explanation of vote,
28. M, DIENE (Sénégal). -  Madame la Présidente, je souhälte fournir une explication de vote. Ma délégation s'est abste-  nue lors du vote qui vient de se dérouler pour la raison suivante : nous n'étions pas opposés au  principe de la clôture du débat, mais à l'interprétation qui en a été donnée. Ma délégation const -  dere que la clôture du débai ne signllie pas la mise aux voix Immédiate du projet de résolution
18 C/PLEN/DR, 28, mais l'examen paragraphe par paragraphe de ce projet, avec la possibilité  pour les délégations qui le souhaitert, de présenter des amendements. Je vous remercie, Ma-  dame la Présidente.
29. The PRESIDENT :  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Togo.
30. M, AGBLEMAGNON (Togo). -  Merci, Madame la Présidente, Comme vous le savez, la délégation du Togo a toujours dé-  fendu le principe de la recherche d'un consensus, Aussi les raisons évoquées tout à l'heure par le  Sénégal sont-elles exactement les nôtres. Je profite de cette occasion pour lancer un appel à tous,
465   et pour souhniter vivement que la fin de notre Conférence générale ne soit pas marquée par des  dissensiona ot des tiralllemente, Il importe que chacun fasse un effort afin que nous parvenions,  sur le problème de la paix, à une conclusion digne de nous, et ce dans un climat de sérénité, et  non de précipitation ou d'agitation, Merci, Madame la Présidente,
31. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, ! give the floor to the delegate of Nigeria,
32. Mr, WACHUKU (Nigeria):  Madam President, my delegation voted for closure of the debate because we feel that it will  be possible, when the items are being voted on item by item, to move an amendment to whichever  item we may desire, Because we hope, during the voting, to move an amendment, or to support  amendments to certain paragraphe in the draft resolution (18 C/PLEN/DR, 28), Thank you.
33, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Dahomey.
34, M, BOISSIER-PALUN (Dahomey). -  Merci, Madame la Présidente. J'ai voté pour la clôture du débat parce que cela correspond  exactement à la façon dont je souhaitais que le Bureau interprète sa décision d'hier soir, Nous  avions déétdé hier soir que le seul texte qui serait mis en discussion serait le projet de résolu-  tion 18 C¢/PLEN/DR, 28, Le débat général est terminé ; nous allons paaser à l'examen du texte et,  à cette occasion, chacun pourra apporter tous les amendements nécessaires, J'ai d'ailleurs indi-  qué que j'en avais mof-même un certain nombre à présenter.
35. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Peru.
(36) M. CHIAPPO (Pérou). - (Traduit de l'espagnol.)  Madame la Présidente, nous avons voté pour la clôture du débat avec l'idée que l'on tiendrait compte  des amendements présentés hier en séance plénière et de ceux qui peuvent être présentés aujourd'hui.  Merci.
37. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Turkey.
38, M, TUNCEL (Turquie). -  Madame la Présidente, je me suis abstenu parce que je considère que le texte qu'on nous pré-  sente contient des mote, des termes et des expressions qui pourraient être révisés. La clôture  du débat ayant été prononcée, je demande que, lors de l'examen, paragraphe par paragraphe, du  projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28, chacun pulsse soumettre les amendements qui s'imposent.  Comme l'honorable délégué du Togo vient de le dire, il faut que nous votions dans une atmosphère  de sérénité et de paix, Merci.
39, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Zambia,
40, Mr, LOMBE (Zambia):  Thank you, Madam President, We have voted for the closure of the subject for very simple  reasons: (1) that we have already taken plenty of time on this particular subject, (2) that nobody's  right is taken away, because they will still have time to make amendments.to the paragraphs 2s we  go on voting, and (3) that if anybody really wants unanimity, if anybody wants to contribute to peace,  surely they don't have to have everybody as such, saying "Yesl", The "Yes" must come by con-  tributing to individual paragraphs. And let us make it a point that we succeed, Thank you.
41,1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladles and gentlemen, now we proceed to the amendments to document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 28, 1  will put to the vote the first ten paragraphs of the Preamble, Are there any amendments?
41,2 The delegate of the Netherlands has the floor,
42. Mrs. KLOMPE (Netherlands):  Madam President, as I said last night, on document 18 C/134, there are two preambular  paragraphs linked together, which should go together, and which we want to be put in on the first  page ufter the seventh preambular paragraph beginning "Noting, however, with anxiety the con-  tinued existence,..",
43, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of China,
44, M, HU SHA (République populaire de Chine), - (Déclaration faite en chinoin, Version fran-  çaise établie d'après l'interprétation, ) oo a ; .  Madame la Présidente, la délégation chinoise a déjà exprimé son point de vue hier soir sur le  projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28, Compte tenu du temps limité dont nous disposons, nous  aimerions avancer des propositions faciles à réaliser, c'est-à-dire la suppression de certaines  sections ou paragraphes du document ; nous proposons notamment de supprimer, sur les dix pre-  miers paragraphes du préambule, les paragraphes 3, 4, 5 et 6. D'autres suppressions pourraient  éventuellement être proposées en temps opportun, Merci, Madame la Présidente,
45.1 The PRESIDENT:  Are there any other amendments?
45.2 The delegate of the United Kingdom has the floor,
46,1 Mr. MARTIN (United Kingdom): .  Thank you, Madam President, If the fifth preambular paragraph {8 maintained I would like to  propose a rewording of this paragraph to correspond more nearly to the present state of affairs,
1 would like it to read "Convinced of the need to create conditions in which détente can be carried  further throughout the world and can be made irreversible",
46,2 If the Seéretariat has that proposed amendment, Madam President, I would like to go on to  propose the deletion of preambular paragraph 8 beginning: “Emphasizing that colonialism, neo-  colonialism,,,.", etc, It does seem to my delegation that this paragraph is more appropriate to  the General Assembly of the United Nations and that if it were dropped from a Unesco resolution  it would do no harm whatever to the purpose of the resolution and would be a small contribution  towards shortening it.
46.3 Lastly, Madam President, I would like to propose the deletion from the next preambular  paragraph of the words: "which jeopardize world peace’, and again I think that paragraph would be  both shortened and improved, Thank you,
47, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of Peru has the floor,
(48) M. CHIAPPO (Pérou), - (Traduit de l'espagnol, )  Madame la Présidente, au dixième alinéa, qui est le premier de la page 2 dans le texte espagnol, on  lit : "exprimant son anxiété devant la réactivation dans certains pays de forces fascistes et néo-fascisies.. ;  l'amendement du Pérou consiste à ajouter l'expression : "par l'action de l'impérialisme", car il importe  de préciser dans ce considérant d'où vient cette réactivation des forces fascistes et néo-fascistes, Il est  bien clair que c'est précisément l'Impérialisme qui réactive ces forces et nous demandons que cet amen-  dement soit ajouté au paragraphe. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
49. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany.
50. Mr, PETERSEN (Federal Republic of Germany):  Madam President, in one of the interventions yesterday it was deplored that this draft resolu-  tion had no heading. I should like to propose an amendment to the effect that we give this draft  resolution a heading which would read: "Unesco's contribution to promote peace and human rights".  Thank you, Madam President.
51, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of Guinea has the floor,
52.1 M, CAMARA (Guinée). - | ;Ç  Madame la Présidente, =! lc sixième considérant doit être maintenu, je proposeral un petit  amendement, Le texte pourrait se lire ainsi : "Soulignant en outre que la recherche de la paix et  de la sécurité entre les peuples .. .'. La paix, en effet, n'existe pas à l'heure actuelle et parler  de la maintenir engendre un quiproquo, C'est pour cela que nous voulons dire que nous recherchons  encore la paix,
52.2 Nous sommes également en faveur de la suppression du troisième considérant, mais nous  pensons que le huitième a sa place dans ce texte, car ce n'est pas séulement l'Organisation des  Natlons Unies qui oeuvre pour la paix, ‘qui lutte contre le colonialisme, le néo-colonialisme, l'im-  périalisme, le racisme et l'apartheid ; c'est la communauté internationale tout entière et donc  l'Unesco, qui en fuit partie, et tout particulièrement les membres de notre délégation qui, étant
44   ‘pour là plupart des engeignants, sont particulièrément bien’ placés pour lutter contre ces fléaux,’  C'est pour cela que nous sommes contre l'amendement proposé par le Royaume-Uni, Je vous re-  'mercie; Madame la Présidente. :
63, The PRESIDENT: + -  Thenk you, Are there any other amendments? If there are no further amendments the  delegate of Chile has the floor,
(54) M, BERGUNO (Chili). - (Tradult de l'espagnol. ) ,  Madame la Présidente, pour qué le dixième considérant soft en harmonie avec la résolution issue du  débat général, je propose qu'après les mots "de forces fascistes et néo-fascistes" on ajoute : "et d'autres  formes d'oppression totalitaire qui constituent une menace pour la paix et la sécurité... ; ainsi la phrase  deviendrait : "exprimant son anxiété devant la réactivation dans certains pays de forces fascistes et néo-  fascistes et d'autres formes d'oppression totalitaire .,.".
55, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Ukraine,
56.  I-x B.A. KPABEII (Ykpaunoxan CoBetrckas CouxarnuoTHueckas Pecny6nHka). -  Brarogapp pac, r-xa lpeaceaarens, I'-xa IIpeaceaatenb, 4 MpOCHA Gi B HACTORMOO BpeMs He  paccMaTpHBäTb BONPOC O TOM, Kak Ha3BaTh Hamy PO3OADUHD. MH yxe HAXOAHMCH B NpoNecce rono-  COBAHHA MO npeambyne peaonouun, HapectHo, ‘ro PaGoyaa rpynna oxa3sanach He B COCTOAHKH RaTh  npHeM/eMoe Ha3BaHHe pesonpuxH. Bonpoc 3TOT CNOPHLH, MOXOT OTB/eYl Hac OT paboTH, K KOTO-  poñ MU MNpHCTyNHNH. MOA AeneralHs NpejnaraeT rnepeñrH K paccMOTpeèHHD BONPOCA O TOM, KaK Haa~  paTh pe3onpuUHD, focae Toro, Kak oHa 6yaer yreepxpaena KoudepoHnuueit, Bnarogapo Bac.
(56) M, KRAVETS (République soclaliste soviétique d'Ukraine), - (Traduit du russe.)  Merci, Madame la Présidente, je voudrais qu'on ne se préoccupe pas maintenant du titre de la résolu-  tion, Yous sommes déjà engagés dans le processus d'adoption du préambule, On sait que le groupe de tra-  vail n'a pu donner à cette résolution un titre acceptable pour tous, Cette question controversée peut nous  détourner des travaux que nous avons entamés, Ma délégation propose de revenir à la question du titre  lorsque la résolution aura été approuvée par la Conférence, Je vous remercie,
57,1 The PRESIDENT:  I think that the delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany agrees to discuss the question of  a heading at the end of the debate, Thank you,
57.2 The delegate of the Soviet Union has the floor,
58.1 I'-u JI.H. KYTAKOB (Cons CoseTcKHx COUHA/AHCTHUECKHX Pecnybnux), -  Bnaroaapw sac, TOB. lIpeacenatens. 51 xoren Git OrpaHHYUHTBCA OMOHB KOPOTKHMH 3aMOYAHHAMH.  MeHs, KOHOUHO, He YAHBAHIOT IIONPaBKK, BHCKa3aHHNe MNPSACTABHTENOM Kurau. [lo-BHAHMOMY, 9TO  orpaxaer o6mui Kypc KHTafickoit no/MTHKH. IIOTOMy YTO B nyHKTax 3, 4, 5 H 6 roBopHTcH o Heo6xo-  AHMOGTH Aa/ibHomet 60pb6H sa paspaaKy Hanpd XeHHOCTH, O BKNane D HECKO B oTy paspaaky, €  TeM 4TOGH CAONA1L 4<K, UTOOH 37a paspAAka OXBATHNA BOCb MHP H 4TOGM STOMY Npoueccy Gua npH-  AaH H60ÉpaTHMHA xapakTep. [loadepkHBaeTCA TaKXe, YUTO YKPOIUIOHHe MHpa H 6@30MacHOCTH CO3AAOT  GnaronpiaTHHE YCNOBHA ANA GOpsOs 3a AHKBHAALHD KONOHHANH3MA, HGOKONOHHAAH3MA, paciaMa H  anaprexqa. Takum 06pasom, KHTAHCKaA AGN6rauxHA PHCTYNaeT NPOTHB TOro FAABHOFO HANPABAGHHA  B AGATENBHOCTH Hamed Oprannaauxwx, KOTOPOe JaMHCaHo B nyukTe 1 YcTana à WHECKO.  “58.2 Yro KacaeTca nonpasxH npeacrapHTon CHA no nyukry 5, TO A XxoTen 6H HAMNOMHHTE ypaxae-  MOHY npeacTapuTenw CHIA, YUTO OH yxe npeanaran Taxymp Monpanky B PaGouefl rpynne. STa nonpas-  Ka He 6m na npuHATa H npeactapuTens CHA COFNACHAICH He HACTAHBETb HA TOM, TOOK BCTABHTb C/O"  pa "cosxaHHe yCHoBHA".
(58.1) M, KOUTAKOV (Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques). - (Traduit du russe.)  Merci, Madame la Présidente, Je me borneral à de très brèves remarques. À vrai dire, je ne cuis  pas étonné des changements que suggère le représentant de la ‘Chine. Cela reflète, semble-t-il, le carac-  tère général’ de la politique chinolse, En effet, les alinéas 3, 4, 5 et 6 évoquent la poursuite des efforts  en faveur de là déténte et la contribution de l'Unesco à cette tâche, l'objéétif étant que cette détente soit  élargit au monde entier et ait un caractère irréversible, 11 est souligrié en outré que'le malhtlen de la  paix et de la sécurité crée des conditions favorables à la lutte pour l'élimfnation du colonialisme, du néo-  colonialisme, du racteme et de l'apartheid. La délégation chinoise va donc à l'ercontre de ce grand are  des activités de notre Organisation, qui est défini à l'article premier de son Acte constitutif.
(58. 2) En ce qui concerne la modification auggérée par le délégué des Etats-Unis au paragraphe 5, Je  voudrais lui rappeler qu'il l'a déjà proposée au groupe de travail, Elle n'a pas été adoptée et 1l a accepté  de ne pas lhelster pour que l'on insètre Îes mots "créer les conditions favorables‘.
59, ‘Mr, JONES (United Stdtes of America):  A point of order, Madam President, The United Ste tes has made no amendment to this reso  lution at this time, Thank you,
60.1 I'-u JI,H.KYTAKOB (Cons Coserckux Couxañneruuecxkux Pecnybauk), =  Si H3BHHAIOCB, YTO A, NO-BHAHMOMY, C/eAN 3a NepeBOAOM, He MNONHOCTHI NOHAN., B KOHLE KOH-  UOB r/laBHOE He B TOM, KTO HMeHHO NpemMaraeï nonpasky. 51 xouy TOAbLKO cKa3aTh NO CYMECTBY:  paspsakà MexAYHApoAHoR HANPAXEHHOCTH yxe ApndeTcs dakToM, CTOHT 3agada YTAYÔNCHHA STOH  pH3pAAKH, a nonpaBka o TOM, 4TOÔb "COIAATL YCHOBHA", A AyMaD, COIRAET HEKOTOPYD HEHCHOCTb  MH NYTaHHOCTEL B MNOHHMAHHH. IlO3TOMy À BBICKAI»Z5ANCh NPOTHB TAKOÏ MONPAaBKH.
60.2 “To xacaercs nonpanxn Mepy, To 8 CUHTa», 4YTO 3Ta nofipaBka Morna 6k 6HTH NpHHATA, TaK  Xe KaK H NIONpaBKa yBaXaeMoro npeacTasuresra P'annex K NyHKTY 6 0 HEOÔXOAHMOCTH CKA3ATB
06 yxpenneHHH Mupa H 6e30MaCHOCTH Me XAY HAPOAAMH, T.©. BCTABHTb ABA CIOBA: "MexAY Hapoaa-  MH". OTO He pMIHBaeT Bo3paxeHuil, Baaroaappo Bac.
(60,1) M, KOUTAKOV (Union des républiques soctalistes soviétiquéés). - (Tradutt du russe, )  Je m'excuse si, apparemment, d'eprès l'Interprétation, je n'ai pas parfaitement compris. En défini-  tive, l'important n'est pas de savoir qui au juste propose un changement, Je veux seulement dire en subs-  tancé : la défente internationale est un fait, 11 s'agit d'approfondir cette détente et la modification qui con-  siste à insérer les mots "créer les conditions favorables' nult à mon sens à la clarté du'texte. C'est  pourquoi je n'y suis pas favorable,
(60,2) En ce qui concerne la modification proposée par le Pérou, je pente qu'elle pourrait être adoptée,  comme aussi celle qu'a proposée le délégué de la Guinée au sixième alinéa, quant à la nécessité d'évoquer  la recherche de la paix et de la sécurité entre les peuples, c'est-à-dire d'ajouter les mots ‘’eutre les  peuples’, Cela ne soulève pas d'objection. Je vous remercie,
61 The PRESIDENT:  Are there any other amendments? The delegate of China, Are you going to make an  amendment?
62, M. HU SHA (République populaire de Chine), - (Déclaration faite en chinois, Version fran-  çaise établie d'après l'interprétation, )  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais exercer mon droit de réponse,
63, The PRESIDENT :  Yes, you have the floor.
64, M. HU SHA (République populaire de Chine), - (Déclaration faite en chinois. Version fran-  çaise établie d'après l'interprétation. )  Madame la Présidente, la délégation chinoise a fait une proposition et cette proposition a fait  l'objet d'une déformation de la part de la délégation soviétique, ce qui n'a rien d'étonnant, Le  délégué soviétique voudrait profiter de cette occasion pour provoquer une autre ‘polémique. Je ne  veux pas prolonger le débat, mais je m'oppose catégoriquement à la déformation que la délégation  soviétique a fait subir à l'intervention de notre délégation, Merci, Madame la Présidente.
65, The PRESIDENT :  Thank you. The delegate of Guinea has the floor.
66. M, CAMARA (Guinée). -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais simplement améliorer mon amendement et proposer pour  le paragraphe 6 du préambule, le libellé suivant : "Soulignant en outre que la recherche de la paix  et de la sécurité entre les peuples contribue à créer les conditions..." J'introduts donc le mot  “contribue”, Merci, Madame la Présidente,
67. The PRESIDENT :  The delegate of Yugoslavia has the floor.
68,1 M, JOVANOVIC (Yougoslavie). -  Si Jial bien compris, un distingué délégué a proposé de remplacer - au sixième considérant -  le mot "maintien" par le mot "recherche",
68, 2 Je voudrais proposer un autre amendement : ajouter, après les mots "le maintien", les mots  et la recherche", étant donné qu'il y a des.régions du monde où règne heureunement la paix, et  d'autres où malheureusement ce n'est pas le cas, Merci, Madame la Présidente.
69. The PRESIDENT:  Are there any other amendments? The dele zate of Pakistan has the floor.
70. Mr, SHAHAB (Pakistan}:  Just a point of inquiry, Madam President, The debate was closéd, may we then ask you,  before you put the resolution to the vote, whether it is with or without the many amendments which  have been proposed in the meantime. Thank you,
71,1 The PRÉSIDENT:  All the amendments will be voted upon, Sir,
44 71.2 If there is no other amendment, I will ask the Secretary to make the situation clear, so that  you may vote on the amendments clearly worded,
72, The SECRETARY:  Thank you, Madam President, There are a number of amendments, and I will take them up  in order of the first ten preambular paragraphs, The first amendment is that of the People's  Republic of China, which proposes to delete paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6: "Noting with satisfaction..."  "Noting that, as a result,,.,", "Convinced of the need,,,", ‘'Stressing also that the  consolidation..."
73.1 The PRESIDENT:  So I put to the vote the amendment submitted by the delegate of China,  (The vote was taken by show of hands, )
73,2 The amendment has been rejected by 28 votes to 7, with 36 abstentions,
14, The SECRETARY:  Madam President, the next amendment ie the amendment of the United Kingdom concerning  paragraph 5 which starts, "Convinced of the need to carry,.,". The United Kingdom proposes  to rewrite it in the following way: "Convinced of the need to create conditions in which détente can  be carried further throughout the world, and can be made irreversible", I repeat the new version  of this article. "Convinced of the need to create conditions in which détente can be carried further  throughout the world, and can be made irreversible",
75,1 The PRESIDENT:  I put to the vote the amendment submitted by the United Kingdom.
15.2 The amendment is adopted Ly 55 votes to 17, with 28 abstentions,
76, The SECRETARY:  Madam President, the next amendment is that proposed by the delegate of the Netherlands.
77, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of the Netherlands has the floor.
78, Mrs, KLOMPE (Netherlands):  Madam President, I understood that amendments were proposed to paragraph 6,
79, Le SECRETAIRE, -  Madame la Présidente, des amendements au sixième considérant ont effectivement été propo-  sés, La délégation de la Guinée a proposé que le début de ce considérant se lise comme suit :  "Soulignant en outre que la recherche de la paix et de la sécurité entre les peuples contribue à  créer des conditions favorables à la lutte..." La délégation de la Yougoslavie a souhaité que le  mot ""maintien" soit conservé ("Soullgnant en outre que le maintien et la recherche de la paix et de  la sécurité...‘’) mais a soutenu pour le reste la proposition de la Guinée. La Guinée accepte-t-elle  ce sous-amendement de la Yougoslavie ? Je crois comprendre que oui, En ce cas, Madame la  Présidente, nous n'avons plus devant nous qu'un seul amendement selon lequel le début du sixième  considérant devrait se ire comme suit : ‘’Soulignant en outre que le maintien et la recherche de la  paix et de la sécurité entre les peuples contribuent à créer des conditions favorables à la lutte. . .".
80, The PRESIDENT :  The delegate of Senegal a the floor,
81, M. DIENE (Sénégal). -  Madame la Présidente, ma délégation estime que, bien que l'heure soit avancée, nous ne de-  vons tout de même pas approuver n'importe quel texte. Or, le texte que le Secrétaire de la Confé-  rence vient de lire, n'a aucun sens : on ne peut pas rechercher quelque chose qu'on maintient, ni  mafintenir quelque chose qu'on recherche, Il faudrait donc choisir entre ces deux termes : soit 17  "maintien" de la paix, soir la "recherche" de la 1 Aix,
82, Le SECRETAIRE, -  Dans ces conditions, Madame la Présidente, je crois qu'il faut voter tout d'abord sur l'amen-  dement original de la Guinée et ensuite sur le sous-amendement yougoslave visant à réinsérer le  mot en question, L'amendement de la Guinée est donc le suivant : "Soulignant en outre que la re-  cherche de la pafx et de la sécurité entre les peuples contribue & créer des conditf7.…68..." et le  reste sans changement,
83,1 The PRESIDENT:  I put the amendment submitted by Guinea to the vole,  (The vote was taken by show of hands, )
83,2 The amendment is adopted by 59 votes to none, with 34 abstentions,
83.3 The delegate of Yugoslavia has the floor,
84, M. JOVANOVIC (Yougoslavie). -  Madame la Préaldente, je retire mon amendement,
85, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much.
86, The SECRETARY:  Madam President, the next amendment 1s the amendment proposed by the Netherlands, The  delegation of the Netherlands wishes that the two paragraphs which are found in document 18 C/134,  which fs a note by the Working Group, be Inserted between the paragraph which starts "Noting,  however, with anxiety..." and the paragraph which starts "Emphasizing that colonialism, neo-  colonialism. ,..', Document 18 C/134 is attached to the resolution,
87,1 The PRESIDENT:  The amendment of the Netherlands is put to the vote.  (The vote was taken by show of hands, )
87.2 The amendment is adopted by 74 votes to 2, with 14 abstentions,
88, The SECRETARY:  Madam President, the next amendment fs that of the United Kingdom which proposes to delete  entirely paragraph 8 which starts "Emphasizing that colonialism, neo-colonialism...".
89,1 The PRESIDENT:  I put the amendment of the United Kingdom to the vote,  (The vote was taken by show of hands, )
89,2 The amendment is rejected by 79 votes to 20, with 10 abstentions.
89.3 The delegate of Chile has the floor,
90, El Sr. BERGURO (Chile):  Senñora Presidenta: para pedir excusas porque voté dos veces, a favor y en contra de la en-  mienda, mi voto debe computarse solamente en contra. Gracias.  {90) M, BERGUNO (Chili), - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Madame la Présidente, qu'on veuille bien m'excuser d'avoir voté deux fois, pour et contre l'amende -  ment ; seul mon vote défavorable doit être retenu, Je vous remercie.
91, The PRESIDENT:  It will be corrected,
92, The SECRETARY:  Madam President, the next amendment comes from the United Kingdom, which proposes to  delete the words "jeopardize world peace" from the second line of the English text of paragraph 9,  which begins: "Considering that they constitute factors..."
93.1 The PRESIDENT:  I put to the vote the amendment proposed by the United Kingdom,  (The vote was taken by show of hands, )
93,2 The amendment is rejected by 78 votes to 17, with 14 abstentions,
94, The SECRETARY:  Madam President, for the next paragraph, which begins: "Expressing alarm at the resurgence  in some couniries,.,', two amendments have been proposed,
95, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Zambia has the floor on a point cf order,
96, Mr, LOMBE (Zambia):  I am sorry, Madam President, to take you back. What were the results of the voting please?
97, The PRESIDENT:  The result of the previous vote was as follows: 17 votes in favour, 78 against, 14 abstentions.  Consequently the amendment was rejected,
98,1 The SECRETARY:  For paragraph 10, which starts "Expressing alarm at the resurgence in some countries, ,,"  there are two amendments,
98,2 First, the amendment of Peru which comes a little earlier in the paragraph and which would  change the beginning of the paragraph fn the following way; to add, in the Spanish text, after the  word "neofascistas'’, the words "por obra dellberada y agresiva del imperialismo”, The para-  graph would then read as follows: "Expressing alarm at the resurgence in some countries of  fascist and neofascist forces by the deliberate and aggressive action of imperialism, which  constitute..."
99,1 The PRESIDENT:  The amendment of Peru {s put to the vote.  (The vote was taken by show of hands, )
99,2 The amendment is adopted by 36 votes to 22, with 34 abstentions,
100, The SECRETARY:  After that, Madam President, the delegation of Chile had proposed to add the words: "and  other forms of totalitarian oppression’, after the original wording "neo-fascist forces", But  following the last amendment I imagine they will now have tocome immediately after the words  which have just been added.
101, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Chile has the floor.
(102) M. BERGUNO (Chili), - (Traduit de l'espagnol, )  A r.'n avis, Madame la Présidente, les mots en question devrafent venir avant, car ces formes d'op-  presels - sotalitaire, à l'égal des formes fascistes et néo-fascistes, sont dues À l'impérialisme, Je vous  remercie,
103. The SECRETARY: ‘  That means, Madam President, that the words "and other forms of totalitarian oppression",  which the delegation of Chile wishes to be added, come immediately after ‘neo-fascist forces" and  then only would come the wording that has just been adopted.
104.1 The PRESIDENT:  I put to the vote the amendment of Chile.  (The vote was taken by show of hands, )
104.2 The amendment of Chile is adopted by 29 votes to 12, with 44 abstentions.
104.3 Ladies and gentlemen, now we take up the following ten paragraphs up to and including the  paragraph which begins: "Recalling resolution 2672 (XXV) adopted on 8 December...', Are there  any amendments?
104.4 The delegate of Switzerland has the floor,
105, M. HUMMEL (Sulese), -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais proposer un amendement au treizième considérant, Ma-  dame la Présidente, vous savez que la Conférence sur la sécurité et la coopération en Europe qui  se tient à Genève actuellement est une conférence difficile et délicate, dont nous ne connaissons  encore ni les résultats ni les succès éventuels, C'est pourquoi je vous propose de rayer la réfé-  rence à cette conférence et de rédiger le texte comme sult : ""Convaincue que le renforcement  continue de la sécurité européenne répondrait aux intérêts des peuples épris de paix," Merci,  Madame la Présidente,
106. The PRESIDENT, -  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of China,
107.1 M. HU SHA (République populaire de Chine), - (Déclaration faite en chinois. Version fran-  çaise établie d'après l'interprétation. ) .  Madame la Présidente, je propose deux amendements,
107,2 Premièrement, à la fin du douzième considérant, je demande que l'on supprime les mots  entre crochets (L'Afrique et l'Amérique latine ne sont-elles pas aussi importantes que l'Europe  et l'Asie ?) Deuxièmement, je demande la suppression du treizième considérant, Merci, Madame  la Présidente,
108. The PRESIDENT :  I give the floor to the delegate of Guinea,:
109, M. CAMARA (Guinée), -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais proposer, comme l'a déjà fait le délégué de ‘Chine, et pour  la même raison que lui, -1a suppression des mots ""y compris en Europe et en Asie", Je vous  remercie,
110, The PRESIDENT :  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Togo.
111, M. AGBLEMAGNON (Togo). -  Madame la Présidente, c'était exactement la même remarque que nous allions faire. Nous  n'avons pas compris pourquoi; alors que l'on mentionne tous les peuples, tous les pays, tous les  continents, on ajoute, entre crochets "y compris en Europe et en Asie", J'aimerais que le rédac-  teur puisse s'expliquer, car je me demande si c'est un accident de typographie ou bien s'il y a là  une idée qui n'est pas explicitée. Merci, Madame Ja Présidente.
112, The PRESIDENT :  I call on the Chairman of the Working Group to reply to the delgate of Togo,
113, M. DERRADII (Algérié), -  Madame la'Présidente, comme je l'ai dit hier, ce membre de phrase est placé entre crochets  parce que le groupe de travail a estimé nécessafre de le soumettre directement à la Conférence  générale, Néanmoins, je pense que les auteurb'de'ce texte ne verront pas d'objection à ce que ce  membre de phrase soit supprimé, ‘auquel cas l'amendement n'aurait plus de raison d'être, Merci,  Madame la Présidente.
114, The President:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Peru.
(115.1) M. CHIAPPO (Pérou). - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Madame la Présidente, nous proposons d'amender le treizième éonsidérant, parce g'e, si l'on sup-  prime les mots "le succès des délibérations de la Conférence sur la sécurité et la coopération en Europe",  on doit ausel supprimer les mots "renforcement continu de la sécurité européenne’ ; en fait, fl faut se  référer à tous les pays du monde.
(155,2) En outre, si la paix dépend seulement du renforcement de la sécurité européenne, j'y vols une me-  nace plutôt qu'un bienfait pour les autres peuples. Aussi proposons-nous que l'amendement consiste à eup-  primer les mots relatifs à la sécurité européenne et au succès de la Conférence sur la sécurité et-la coopé-  ration en Europe et À dire : ""Convaincue que le renforcement continu de la sécurité absolue de tous les  pays du monde ...".
(115.3) Le met “absolue” signifie que la sécurité n'est pas seulement un problème d'ordre militaire mais  qu'elle est aussi fonction de phénomènes économiques et sociaux au niveau mondial ; un pays n'est pas en  sécurité el son économie est vulnérable. Donc ce n'est pas seulement affaire de puissance milithire, En  résumé, l'amendement se ramène à dire : "Convaincue que le renforcement continu ‘de la sécurité absolue  de tous les pays du monde répondrait, ete,,,". Je vous remercie.
116, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, 1 give the floor to the delegate of Pakistan,
117, Mr, SHAHAB (Pakistan):  Madam President, We wish to support the amendments proposed by the delegation of China  to paragraph 12, since they will make the substance of this paragraph more universal rather than  just regional, Thank you,
118, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, 1 give the floor to the delegate of Upper Volta,
44 119,1 M, SORGHO (Haute-Volta). - .  “ - Madame 1a Présidente; les amendements que je voudrais proposer portent sur les considérants
12 et 13, Ce sont certes des amendements mineurs, mals, dans la mesure où je considère que  notre Organisation est souveraine, qu'elle a mission expresse de faire en sorte que la paix et les  droits de l'homme soient rigoureusement respectés dans le monde, nous devons tenir compte des  termes qui renforcent son action,
119,2 Au considérant 12, je serais tenté de dire : "Notant que l'Unesco doit continuer [au lieu de  "devrait continuer‘ /à donner son appul aux peuples, ete, *,
119:3 Au considérant 13, poursuivant mon idée, je dirais de même façon : "Convaincue que le ren-  forcement continu de la sécurité européenna et le succès des délibérations de la Conférence sur la  sécurité et la coopération en Europe répondratent aux Intérêts des peuples épris de paix, et qu'à  l'avenir l'Unesco doit tenir compte, etc,‘ Merci, Madame la Présidente.
120, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of the Soviet Union,
121.1 P-u JT.H.KYTAKOB (Coms Coperck:x Couxanncrhueckux Pecnyfank):  Braroxapp Bac, Top. lIpeaceaaterb, B CRAIK O TeMH BHCKA3NBAHHAMH, KOTOPME IACCh  WMENH MECTO MO NOBOAY TPHHAAUATOTO NyHKTa NpeaMÔyAN, 4 xoTen 6H OÉPATHTL BHHMAHHE ReNeraTæ  Ha TO, UTO BONPOC O @BPONEHCKOM COTPYAHHYGCTBE YXE He BMepBHe CYOWT Mepea HaMH. Ipousas  T'eneparbHan KoHPepeHLHA CNeUHaNbHO NPHHA/NE Pe3OADIUHD, KOTOpas HaaNBaerca "Esponeñckoe  corpyanWuecrao”. B Hel rOCyRApCTBA MPHIbIBANHCh MPHHATL BCE MepH K Aa/bHeAmeMy coneñ-  CTBHDD B3AHMOMOHHMAHHD, MHPY H 6esonacHOocTH B Espone, OTO, BO-NepBHXx.
121.2 Bo-bropsx, KaK H3BECTHO, obmeenponefickoe CoBemaHHe no 6e30MaCHOCTH H COTpyAHHWECT-  By yCHemHo pa6oraeT, HAYT 3aK/ANMHTENbLHME JACEAAHHA BTOPOFO 3Tana, C TOM UTOÔL Gua  NOAroToBAEH TPeTHA aTart - Ha BHCHEM ypoBHe - JUIN PemMeHHd TaKOH BAXHOÏ Npo6nemst xak  yKperiente GesornacHOCTH COTPYAHKWYECTBA Ha €BPONEACKOM KOHTHHEHTE.
121.3 Bonpoc stor obcyxAanc4 noapobuo H Ha PaGoyeñ rpynne, H B pesy/bTaTe ATHTENBHHX AHC-  Kyçcouñ Gba aocTHrHyTa GopuyAHpoRKa, KOTOpaa Gila NPHHATA EAHHOFAACHO Ha Paboueñ  rpynne. B Hell rOBOPpHTCA He O TOM, 4TO yXe ecTh pemenxe oTOR KoutepoHuxx, à O TOM, \TO B
6yaymeñH aeaTensHocrH OHECKO CMOryT HaÂTH MeCTO Te pemeHHA H pekoMeHRaunu CopemaHus  no 6e30MaCHOCTH H COTpyAHHYECTBy B Espone, KOTOPH® GyAyT HMETB HEMNOCP@ACTBEHHQE OTHOMEHHE  K KOMNeTeHUHH Hameñ OprauxaauxH, Ionaepæka co croponst WHECKO aroro Copemanus Guna 681,
(121,1) M, KOUTAKOV (Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques). - (Traduit du rubse, )  Merci, Madame la Présidente, S'agissant du treizième alinéa du préambule, je voudrais attirer l'at-  tention des délégués sur le fait que la question de la coopération européenne n'est pas nouvelle pour nous,  La dernière Conférence générale a spécialement adopté une résolution intitulée "Coopération européenne,  qui invite les Etats A prendre toutes les mesures nécessaires pour promouvoir la compréhension mutuelle,  la paix et la sécurité en Europe. Voilà le premier point,
(121.2) En second leu, on le sajt, 1a Conférence eur la sécurité et la coopération en Europe progresse  de façon satisfaisante : les dernières réunions de la deuxième phase sont en cours et l'on prépare la troi-  sième phase - au niveau le plus élevé - qui vise & résoudre un problème aussi fmporlant que le renforce-  ment de la sécurité et de la coopération sur le continent européen,
(121.3) Cette question a été aussi approfondie par le groupe de travail qui, à l'issue de longues discus-  sions, à adopté un texte à l'unanimité. H y est dit non pas qu'il existe déjà una décision de cette Conférence,  mals que, dans les activités futures de l'Unesco, pourront trouver place les décisions et recommandations  de la Conférence sur la sécurité et la coopération en Europe qui intéressent directement notre Organiea-  tion. L'appui de l'Unesco à cette Conférence serait, à mon sens, des plus utiles,
(121,4) Je voudrais aussi rappeler que l'Unesco a pris part aux travaux de cette Conférence. Le direc-  teur général, M, Maheu, y est Interyenu au sujet de la résolution adoptée à la dernière session de la Con-  férence générale, Compte tenu de ces divers éléments, je suis favorable au maintien du paragraphe sous  la forme présentée par le groupe de travail, Je vous remercie.
122, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Turkey.
123,1 M, TUNCEL (Turquie).- ;  Madame la Présidente, je partage 1'opinfon exprimée par l'honorable délégué du Togo en ce  qui concerne la suppression du niembre de phrase qui termine lé douzième considérant : ''Y com-  pris en Europe et en Aste'', Je crois que M, le rapporteur du groupe est d'accord sur ce point et  j'eapère donc qu'il n'y aura pas de difficultés à cet égard,
123.2 En ce qui concerne le paragraphe 13 nous avons voté en ayant surtout présent à l'esprit 1e  contexte de la coopération européenne et l'aspect culturel de la conférence dont {1 est fait mention,  done sans préjuger des résultats auxquels aboutiralt éventuellement cette conférence. Au stade  actuel et puisque ce paragraphe revêt ici, je le sens, un aspect politique, peut-être pourrait-on  le aupprimer. 0
123,3 Je formule donc deux propositions de suppression : la première concerne la parenthèse du  paragraphe 12 et la seconde le paragraphe 13 ; nous pouvons pour le moment, je crois, nous pas-  ser de ce dernier paragraphe. Merci, Madame la Présidente,
124, The President:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Uruguay.
(125) M, FERNANDEZ (Uruguay). - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Madame la Présidente, j'interviens uniquement pour appuyer la suggestion de la délégation du Pérou  touchant la sécurité absolue de tous les pays du monde, Ce concept de sécurité absolue mis en évidence  par le délégué du Pérou est fondamental pour nos pays du Tiers Monde, Dans le reste du paragraphe, I:  est possible de faire état de la Conférence sur la sécurité en Europe, mais comme exemple du renforce-  ment continu de la sécurité absolue de tous les peuples du monde, Je vous remercie,
126. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Cuba.
(127.1) M. LE RIVEREND (Cuba). - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je voudrais tout d'abord dire, au sujet du douzième considérant, que  nous partageons l'opinion de plusieurs délégués qui suggèrent de supprimer les mots qui sont placés entre  crochets car ils n'apportent aucun élément nouveau,
(127,2) S'agissant du trelzième considérant, l'amendement de la délégation du Pérou nous paraft très per-  tinent ; cependant, nous estimons en même temps que la Conférence sur la sécurité et la coopération en  Europe, pour reprendre les mots du texte, répondrait aux Intérêts des peuples épris de paix comine pour-  ralent le faire d'ailleurs d'autres conférences - mais ce disant jé ne suggère nullement un nouvel amende-  ment. Par conséquent,- je crois qu'on doit garder le paragraphe ; l'Uneséo bénéficierait des résultats de  cette Conférence et d'autres conférences pour le développement de son propre programme, En conclusion,  je présenteral un amendement mineur : après les mots "des décisions et recommandations de cette Con-  térence..." ajouter : "et d'autres conférences’, pour terminer avec la phrase du texte, à savoir l'intéres-  sant directement les domaines de sa compétence"".
128, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, 1 give the floor to the delegate of the Netherlands.
129, Mrs, KLOMPE (Netherlands):  Madam President, my proposed amendment fe to delete paragraph 15 which begins:  “Coneldering that peace.’ and to substitute for it the second preambular paragraph of draft  resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 18 which reads."Considering that peace canypt consist golely in the  absence of armed conflict but implies principally a process of progress, justice and mutual,  respect among peoples designed to secure the building of an international society in which every-  one can find his true place and enjoy his share of the world's intellectual and material resources,  and that a peace founded in Injustice and a violation of human rights cannot last, and leads inevi-  {ably to violence', Thank you, Madam Preuident,
44   “ 130, . The PRESIDENT: . ‘  Thank you, I'give the floor to the delegate of Senegal,. 4 A
131, M. DIENE (Sénégal). -  Madame la Présidente, ma délégation appule les propositions, faites par ‘d'autrés délégations,  tendant à faire supprimer les mots qui figurent entre parenthèses À la fin du paragraphe 12 èf à  faire rayer l'ensemble du paragraphe 13, Notre appui À ces suppressions ne slgnifie pas que nous  sous-estimons l'importance de la Conférence sur la sécurité ot la coopération en Furope ; mala  nous estimons que cette conférence aurait dû faire l'objet d'une résolution distincte. .
132, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of the Ukraine,
133.1 P-u B.A.KPABELI (Yxpautckan Coserckasa Counaanctuyeckan Pecnybnuxa): .  Bnaroaap® pac. B cexan o nonpankoñ, TPeACTaBNeHHON npeaçrabuTeneM ToANanARH, H  xoTen 64 ofpaTHTs BHHMaHKe lD'eHeparbHoñ KOHDEPEHUHH Ha T6, NTO NyHKT 15 B HWHemKHeR pesxak-  YHH RBHACH Pe3y/ILTaToM ANMHTeNbHOTO ob6cy xaeHns Ha PaGoueft rpynne. Ou GI fipHHaT H oxobpen  BCeñ rpynnoñ eAHHOr/NACHO MOCAE ANHTeNbHOro obcymaeHus. B CBA3H © STHM TIPÉANOXEHHE NPOACTA-  BHT@/R Hudéphñannon bepHyTBCA K CTApoñ QOPMYyAHPOBKE § CYUKTAD HOCBOGBPÈMEHHHM. OTa dopuysin-  Ppopka ABNAETCH HETOWHOR, COROPKHT PAR COMHHTONbHMX MONOKEHHÉ. BCè aro ofdTosrenscrao, B  TeyeHHe HeCKONBKMX YACOB, CÔCyXAANOCh Ha PaGoueft rpynne H HTOFOM ABHACA Tor 15 nyHkT, xoTo-  pH coxepxuTes p 18 C/PLEN/DR. 28, B CSA3H © 3THM H BHCKA3HBANCb 3a TO, YTOÏH 3TOT NYHKT  OCTa/Cs B 9TOR peaaklHH. M AOnNXeH CKa3aTb, WTO MH TOXe He B Bocrfopre OT STOH ŒOPMYAHPOBKH,  HO, ReACTBYA B AyXe COTPYAHHYECTRA H KOMNpOMHCCA, MM MOMAH HA ITY dopMynuposxy.
133.2 B Cas3H C 3THM 5 NOBTOPAY HAWY MOSHUHD: ME BHCTynasM NpOTHE tord, yTObN daMeHATS,  HNHemHHA NyHKT, CoxepXamHica B NpoekTe pesonmuxr 18 C/PLEN/DR. 28. CTapsIM NYHKTOM  ua 18 C/PLEN/DR. 18. Enaroxapp Bac.
(133.1) M. V.A, KRAVETS (République socialiste soviétique d'Ukraine). - (Traduit du russe. )  Je vous remercie. En ce qui concerne Ja modification proposée par le représentant des Pays-Bas, je  voudrats attirer l'attention de la Conférence générale sr le fait que 1¥ treizième alinéa du préambule, -  sous sa forme actubèlle, est le résultat d'un long débat au sein du groupe de travail, qui l'a adopté et ap-  prouvé à l'unanimité. J'estime donc inopportune la proposition du représentant des Pays-Bas dp revenir à  l'ancien libellé, texte imprécis, qui contient diverses ambiguftés. Le Groupe de travail a examiné tout cela  en détail pendant plusieure heures et le résultat est le quinzième alinéa tel qu'il figure dans le document
18 C/PLEN/DR. 28. Je suis donc favorable au maintien de :et alinéa sous sa forme actuelle. Je dois dire  que nous ne sommes pas non plus enthouslasmés par ce Mt :11¢ mals, dans un esprit de coopération et de  compromig, nous l'avons accepté.
(133,2) Je répèle donc hotre position : nous ne sommes ag favorables’ au remplacement de l'alinéa figu-  rant actuellement dans le projet de résolution 18 C/PLE" (/DR. 28 par l'ancien texte qui figurait dans le  document 18 C/PLEN/DR.18, Je vous remercie. . , R  i
134, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, If there are no other amendments. 1 will ask the Secretary to read the amendments  received one by one,
135, Le SECRETAIRE, -  Madame la Présidente, le premier amendrment porte sur le douzième considérant. Le délé-  gué de Haute-Volta demande que le mot "devrait" soit remplacé par le mot "doit".
136, The PRESIDENT :  Is there any objection to this amendment ? It {s adopted,
137, Le SECRETAIRE, -  L'autre amendement, Madame la Préside "le, qui a été proposé par la Chine et’ appuyé par  plusieurs autres orateurs, consisterait à supp: :.ner les mots ' y compris en Europe et en Asie"  qui figurent entre parenthèses à la fin du douztème considérant,
138.1 The PRESIDENT:  I put the amendment to the vote.  {The vote was taken by show of hands)
138,2 The amendment is adopted by 86 votes to none, with 6 abstentions,
139, Le SECRETAIRE: --  Madame la Présidente, il y a un très grand nombre d'amendements au treizième considérant,  L'amendement le plus radical consisterait à le supprimer purement et simplement : c'est- ce que  propose la délégation de la Chine, appuyée par plusieurs autres.
1,0.1 The PRESIDENT:  Those in favour of this amendment? Against? Abstentions?
476   (The vote was taken by show of hands)
140.2 The amendment fs rejected by 25 votes to 22, with 48 abstentions,
141. Le SECRETAIRE,r .  Madame 1a Présidente, nous pouvons ‘donc procéder à l'examen des amendements soumis Pour  le treizième considérant. En premier lieu, la Suisse propose de supprimer les mote ''et le succès  des délibérations de la Conférence sur la sécurité et la coopération en Europe" » uinsl que tout çe  qui vient après "épris de paix". Le texte se lirait dès lors comme suit : ""Convaincue que le ren-  forcement continu de la sécurité européenne répondrait aux intérêts des peuples épris de paix",
142, The PRESIDENT : …  The delegate of Senegal has the floor,
143, M, DIENE (Sénégal) .  Madame la Présidente: une ‘simple remarque de procédure, Je crois que l'amendement pré-  senté-par le délégué du Pérou est plug éloigné du texte de base que l'amendement pr/posé par la  délégation de la Sutsse. La délégation du Pérou propose en effet d'ajouter après le ‘not sécurité"  l'expression "complète de tous les peuple du monde", ce qui signifie l'abandon du mot "euro-  péenne"", Il me semble donc que cet amendement devrait être immédiatement mis ux voix,
144, The PRESIDENT :  I give the floor to the delegate of Algeria,
145, M. DERRADJI (Algérie). -  Madame la Présidente, compte tenu des délibérations qui ont, au sein du Groupe de travail,  porté sur ce texte et des différents amendements qui ont été proposés, je me permets de vous  proposer une rédaction qui pourrait, à mon avis, rallier 1'assentiment d'une majorité de cette  assemblée, Je propose ceci : "Convaincue que le renforcement continu de la sécurité dans le  monde et le succès escompté des délibérations de la Conférence sur la sécurité etla coopération... "  (le reste sans changement).
146. The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Peru has the floor.
(147) M. CHIAPPO (Pérou). - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Madame 1a Présidente, je me félicite de cette intention d'obtenir un consensus, de la part du délégué  de l'Algérie ; mals il y a quelque chose qu'il ne faut pas oublier : le concept de sécurité absolue qui, comme  je l'af déjà expliqué, n'est pas seulement la sécurité fondée sur la puissance militaire, mais aussi la sé-  curité fondée sur le renforcement de l'économie, de la culture, parce qué les pays sous-développés sont  vulnérables économiquement et de ce fait leur sécurité est menacée, Aussi proposons-nous d'ajouter le  mot Yabsolue' et de reprendre l'idée du délégué de Cuba, à savoir qu'il ne s'Aÿlt pas'séulerent des délibé -  rations de la Conférence sur la sécurité et la coopération en Europe mais aûssl de celles d'autres confé-  rences, I) faudrait dire d'autre part “le succès escompté'', ne pas donner le euccès pour acquis, mais  marquer que l'on escompte ce succès des délibérations de la Conférence sur la sécurité et la coopération en  Europe et des autres conférencer qui pourront ge tenir en ce domaine. Avec l'adjonctlon de la proposition  faite par, Cuba, je crole que nous pourriohs parvenir ‘à un consensus. Merci,
148. The PRESIDENT:  Think you, The delegate of Gabon has the floor,
149, M, IBINGA MAGWANGU (Gabon). -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais simplement appuyer ce qui vient d'être dit par le délégué  du Pérou, Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente.
150, The PRESIDENT :  Thank you, The delegate of Senegal has the floor,
151, M, DIENE (Sénégal), -  Madame la Présidente, mu délégation appuie la proposition faite par la délégation du Pérou.
44 152, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you) I give the floor to the delegate of the German Democratic Republic,
153 Mr: GRUMBACH (German Democratic Republic):  Thank you, Madam President, the delegation of the German Democratic Republic supports  the proposal put forward by the delagate of Peru,
154, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I now ask the Secretary to read the amendment,
155, Le SECRETAIRE, -  Madame la Présidente, si 1'amendement de l'Algérie était adopté avec l'amendement proposé  tout À l'heure par Cuba, le douzième considérant se lirait comme suit : "Convaincue que le ren-  forcement continu de la sécurité dans le monde et le succès escompté des délégations de la Confé-  rence sur la sécurité et la coopération en Europe répondratent aux intérêts des peuples épris de  paix, et qu'à l'avenir l'Unesco pourrait tenir compte des décisions et recommandations de cette  conférence et d'autres conférences Intéressant directement les domaines de sa compétence"', Merci,  Madame la Présidente.
156, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Peru has the floor.
(157) M, CHIAPPO (Pérou). - (Traduit de l'espagnol, )  Madame la Présidente ; on n'a pas lu le texte complet avec tout ce qui a eté proposé ; il me semble  Qu'il y a deux concepts laiseés de côté : celui de sécurité absolue du monde, absolue au sens que j'ai dit,  qui, semble-t-il, a recueilli l'appui de plusieurs délégués qui sont intervenus ; d'autre part, le fait qu'il  ne faut pas tenir pour acquis le succès de la Conférence sur la sécurité en Europe mais qu'on l'escompte  pour cette Conférence et d'autres conférences. Je vous remercie.
158.1 Le SECRETAIRE, -  Madame la Présidente, le délégué du Pérou revient à son amendement original, qui concernaît  le début du paragraphe et n'a pas été pris en considération par la délégation de l'Algérie.
158,2 La proposition originale du Pérou consistait à ajouter, après les mots "Convaincue que le  renforcement continu de la sécurité...'', les mots "... abgolue de tous les peuples... n
159, The PRESIDENT :  The delegate of Algeria has the floor,
160, M, DERRADII (Algérie). -  Madame la Présidente, je crois que nos deux propositions se rejoignent ; que l'on parle de  sécurité intégrale de tous les pays ou de sécurité dans le monde, cela a pour moi le même sens.  Merci.
161. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The delegate of Venezuela has the floor,
(162) M, DE SOLA (Venezuela). - (Traduit de l'espagnol.)  Merci, Madame la Présidente. M'inspirant des diverses suggestions relatives au trelzièm“ considé-  rant, je me permets de proposer un libellé qui, à mon sens, tient compte des différentes opirions, à  savoir : "Convaincue que le renforcement continu de la sécurité absolue de tous les peuples et le résultat  favorable que pourraient produire la Conférence sur la sécurité et la coopération en Europe et d'autres  conférences du même genre, répondralent aux intérêts des peuples épris de paix, et qu'à l'avenir l'Unesco  doit tenir compte des décisions et recommandations de ces conférences intéressant directement lez do-  maines de sa compétence", Je vous remercie,
163, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of Yugoslavia has the floor,
164, M, JOVANOVIC (Yougoslavie) :  Madame la Présidente, j'appule la proposition de la délégation du Venezuela,
165, The PRESIDENT:  Is the text agreed now? The delegate of Uruguay has the floor,
(166) M, FERNANDEZ (Uruguay). - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Madame la Présidente, j'appuie la proposition du Venezuela, Merci,
167. The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Peru has the floor,
(168) M, CHIAPPO (Pérou). - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Madame la Présidente, j'appule de tout coeur ia proposition du délégué du Venezuela mals je veux  être bien sûr de ce que j'ai entendu et surtout du fait que, dans la phrase finale, on parle de tenir compte  des déctstons et recommandations des conférences, au pluriel, et non pas geulement de celle sur la sécu-  rité et la coopération en Europe, Je voudrais avoir cette assurance, Merci.
(169) M, DE SOLA (Venezuela). - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Oui, au pluriel, pour qu'on tienne compte des autres conférences de même portée.
170, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Switzerland.
171, M, HUMMEL (Suisse). -  Madame la Présidente, je remercie tous ceux qui s'efforcent de sortir de l'impasse dans la-  quelle nous nous trouvons, male je constate que le considérant dont nous discutons devient de plus  en plus long. Franchement, je préfère ma proposition, et je tiens à ce que ma proposition soit  mise aux voix telle que je l'ai formulée,
172, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Are there no other amandments? Is it therefore agreed to put to the vote the  amendment of Switzerland?
173, M, BOISSIER-PALUN (Dahomey). -  Madame la Présidente, il me sembl5 que nous devrions d'abord nous prononcer sur l'amende-  ment du Venezuela,
174. The PRESIDENT:  Yes, I think you are right, I will ask the Secretary to read the amendment of Venezuela,
175. Le SECRETAIRE, -  Madame la Présidente, le teat2 proposé par le Venezuela se lit comme suit : “Convaincue que
12 renforcement continu de la sécurité abzolus de tous les pevples et le résultat favorable que pour-  ralent produire la Conférence sur la sécurité et la coopératiem en Europe st d'autres conférences  du raême genre répondraient aux intér£is des peuplen épris de pal, et que l'Unesco doit tenir  compte des décisions et recommandat{ous de ces conférences intéessant directement les domaines  de sa compétence",
176.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 put this amendment to the vote.  (‘the vote was taken by shzw of hands.)
176,2 The omendment ia adopted by 58 votes to 2, with 24 abstentions,
176, 3 The delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany "as the floor,
177. Mr. PETERSEN (Federal Republté of Germany):  ladam Presidert. ! have requested the floor for an explanation of vote, My delegation voted  against the amendrant because in the sense of the arnendment of the delegation of Switzerland, we  feel that the resul’ of the European Conference on S:curity and Co-operation should not be pee-  judged by too early a reference to Unesco's further kctivities in the co-operalion of European  countries, Theak you, Madam President.
178, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 1 give the floor to the Secretary.
179. The SECRETARY:  -Madam President, the next amendment comes at paragraph 15, The delegation of the  Netherlands proposed, first of all, to delete this paragraph entirely and to replace Ît by para-  graph 2 from the draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 18, 1 will read that paragraph because not  all the delegates may have it-in front of them, The new paragraph 15 would read: "Considering  that peace cannot consist solely in the absence of armed conflict but implies principally a pro-  cess of progress, justice and mutual respect among peoples designed to secure the building of  an International society In which everyone can find his true place and enjoy his share of the world's  intellectusl and material resources, and that a peace founded in injustice and violation of human  rights cannot last, and leads inevitably to violence",
180.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 put to the vote the amendment of the Netherlands,  (The vote was taken by show of hands.)
180,2 The amendment is adopted by 37 votes to 17, with 34 abstentions,
180,3 We have now finished with the second part of the preamble. The delegate of Peru has the  floor, ;
(181) M, CHIAPPO (Pérou), - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Madame la Présidente, l'amendement proposé par les Pays-Bas est très proche du texte original sur  certains points essentiels mais nous avons voté contre car il se réfère à une société internationale où les  pays vont occuper la place qui leur revient. Cela est une menace, cela signifie que les uns auront la part  du lion et les autres la part de la souris ; c'est pourquof nous avons voté contre,
182, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of Norway has the floor,
183, Mr, GISVOLD (Norway):  Madam President, so far we have voted only on amendments to the preambular paragraphs  but we have not voted on the preainbular paragraphs themselves. Should we not proceed to vote  on these paragraphs as amended? Thank you.
184.1 The PRESIDENT: N  After having adopted the amendments I shall put to the vote the whole preamble as amended.
184,2 Now we shall take up the following ten paragraphs up to and including the paragraph which  starts as follows: "Particularly preoccupied with the impact of these corporations..."
184,3 Are there any amendments? The delegate of China bas the floor,
185, M, HU SHA (République populairé de Chine), - (Déclaration faite en chinofs. Version fran-  çaîse étatilie d'après l'interprétation. }  Madame la Présidente, je propose la suppression des considérants 25, 26, 27 et 28, Merci,  Madame la Présidente.
186. The PRESIDENT:  I give the floor to the delegate of Ethiopia,
187, Mr, HABTE (Ethiopia): .  Macam President, I have a minor editorial amendment to preambular paragraph 23 which  starts "Considering that the people struggling for their Liberation... ! would like the words  “from colonisilem, raciallem and foreign domination” to be added following the word "liberation",  which vould correspond very well to operative paragraph 12 where this declaration ie made, and
1 think it «vould harmonize with it, Thank you,
188, ‘The PRESIDENT:  thank you, Any other amendments? The delegate of Yugoslavia has the floor,
189, M, JOVANOVIC (Yougoslavie). -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais proposer des amendements aux considérants 28 et 30,  Daas le premier, je désirerals que l'on ajoute après le mot "contribuer' l'expression "dans les
480   domaines de sa compétence' et que l'on remplace l'indicatif "seront! par le conditionnel ""serbient", 44  Dans le second, je propose d'ajouter, après le mot "information", les mots "notamment dans les  pays en vole de développement". Merci, Madame la Présidents,
190, The PRESIDENT :
1 give the floor to the delegate of Czechoslovakia,
191, M, GREGUS (Tchécoslovaquie), -  Madame la Présidente, ma délégation est opposée à la proposition de la République populaire  de Chine, qui a demandé la suppression des considérants 25, 26, 27 et 28, Ces textes sont en effet  une base très utile pour l'établissement de la paix et précisent les conditions qui sont nécessaires  pour la détente, Merci, Madame la Présidente, ’
192. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Peru.
(193,1) M, CHIAPPO (Pérou). - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Madame la Présidente, nous proposons d'ajouter au vingt-cinquième considérant une nouvelle Idée que  nous considérons fondamentale ; après les mots "grâce à la réduction des armements ..." ajouter : “et à  la transformation de la structure économique du monde actuel ...".
(193.2) Je m'explique. Sous sa forme actuelle, le vingt-cinquième considérant laisse à penser que grâce  à la réduction des armements, l'affectation des ressources ainsi économisées se fera automatiquement  pour le progrès et le bien-être de l'humanité ; mais que sont donc les armements, Madame la Présidente,  sinon le système de défense agressif des intérêts de ceux qui possèdent la meflleure part de la structure  économique du monde actuel ? 1} me paraft donc naff de penser que la simple réduction des arrrements  pourrait produire des ressources économiques pour le progrès et le bien-être de l'humanité, sans qu'il  soit nécessaire de transformer la stracture économique du monde actuel,
(193.3) Nous proposons donc, Madame la Présidente, le libellé dont j'ai donné lecture. Il nous semble  aussi que l'idée qui Inspire cet amendement pourrait s'appliquer au vingl-sixiéme considérant même s'il  se réfère à la résolution 3093 de l'Assemblée générale, instance supérievre à l'Unesco ; en effet, Madame  la Présidente, s'il existe aujourd'hui une énorme quantité d'armements, les victimes sont - la chose est  notoire - les pays en voie de développément et, suprême {ronle, les 10 % de Is réduction des budgets mt-  Îtaires servent à quof ? à reconstruire les pays bombardés ... ; c'en est assez, Madame la Présidente.
(193,4) Voila pourquoi rious voterons contre le vingt-sixième considérant, à moins qu'on y 'hjoute quelque  chose suf la transformation des structu ‘es, mafs pour le vingt-cinquième considérant Avec l'adjonction  que nous avons présentée et que nous communiquerons par écrit au Burcau, Merci, Madame la Présidente.
194, The PRESIDENT: . .  Thank you, The delegate of the United States has the floor,
195, Mr, WARVARIV (United States of America): - Tt  Thank you, Madam President, We would like to suggest an addition to paragraph 26: after  the words "assistance to the developing countries’ we would like to add "and the Secretary-  General's report on the subject (A/9770 of 14 October 1974), as well as other General Assembly  resolutions relating to economic and social aspects of disarmament measures", Thank you,  Madam President, . -
196, The PRESIDENT: |  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Algeria,
197,1 M. DERRADIJI (Algérie), - ,  Madame la Présidente, le distingué délégué de l'Ethiopie a proposé un amendement en ce qui  concerne le vingt-troisième considérant, Il a demandé qu'on précise qu'il s'agit de la libération  des peuples qui sont victimes du colonialisme et du racisme, Je suis parfaitement d'accord avec  lui, mais je voudrais lui rappeler que le libellé de ce vingt-troisième considérant correspond à  celui que l'on trouve dans la résolution 10,1 adoptée par la Conférence générale à sa dix-geptième  session,
197.2 Si le représentant de l'Ethiopie maintient sa proposition, je voudrats que ledit considérant  soit 1{bellé comme suit : "Considérant que les peuples en lutte pour leur libération du colonialisme,  du racisme et de l'occupation étrangère doivent être associés aux activités de l'Unesco" (j'ajoute  "occupation étrangère"). Merci, Madame la Présidente,
198, The PRESIDENT ;  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Switzerland.
199, M. HUMMEL (Suisse). -  Madame la Présidente, le Directeur général adjoint a attiré ce matin notre attention sur le  fait que nous avons déjà adopté une résolution sur les entreprises multinat{onales ou transnatio-  nales, C'est pourquoi je vous propose de supprimer les considérants 29 et 30, qui font, à mon  avis, doublé emploi avec cette résolution, Cela nous permettrait de raccourcir un peu un texte  qui est passablement long. Merci, Madame la Présidente,
200, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of the United States has the floor.
201. Mr. WARVARIV (United States of America):  Thank you, Madam President, I apologize, I meent also to add a small amendment to  paragraph 25, In the middle of the paragraph, after the words "reduction of arrnaments" I would  like to suggest the following addition: "under effective international control". Thank you,  Madam President.
202, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Algeria.
203, M. DERRADII (Algérie), -  Madame la Présidente, je remercie M. le Directeur général pour les explications qu'il a  données tout à l'heure, mais je voudrais préciser ma pensée, Personnellement, je suis favorable  au maîntien du considérant 29, parce que le comportement des sociétés transnationales n'a pas  seulement des effets sur 'éducation et la science ; il en a également sur la paix et les droits de  l'homme, J'estime donc que tel qu'il est libellé le considérant 29 est bien A sa place dans le pro-  jet de résolution à l'étude, Merci, Madame la Présidente,
204,1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no other arnendmnents I will ask the Secretary to read the amendments  one by one,
204.2 The delegate of Ethiopia has the floor,
205. Mr. HABTE (Ethiopia):  Madam President, simply to say that I accept the suggestion of my colleague from Algeria,
206, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Byelorusnia has the floor,
18 C/PLEN/DR. 28, a xoten 6u uanoM4uTh O NO3HUHH, 2aHATOR PaGoyeAñ rpynnof B oTHomeHHH  asyx nonpasox CIDA x naparpaau 26 x 3arem 25 [Ipeambynu, xoTopsie HaMu TaM noApobHo pas6H-  pañxcb. 3axnnuehxe PaGov.el rpynnm cocTroano B TOM, 4YTO nonpasxa k naparpady 26, KoTopan  TONBKO YTO (HAA NOBTOPHO NPEANOXEHA YBAXA€MHM npeAcTabHTeneM Coeanneumsix Tato, He  AONXHa 6MTHL COXpaHeHa B TexcTe, MOCKONbKY JAECh peub HAET O KOHKpeTHOR H O4eHb BAXHOR pe-  sonouny Fexepasñbnoi Accambnen Oprannaauxn O63e auHenusix Haunñ H 0 H6GÉXOAHMOCTH TOTO,  (cM. naparpad 27 Npeambyau) yutobu WHECKO, p cdepe cpoeil koMneTenuny, oxaaana coneficTere  B ee BHIIONHEHHH,
207.2470 kacaeTèa naparpada 25, npeacTaBHTens CoeAHHOHHBX [ITazoB BHOBB BHABHHYA  HEED 0 TOM, YTOÏt! AOGABHI'b CAOBA "NOR SÉPEXTHBHHM Me XAYHAPOAHHM KOHTPONEM", BTor Bonpoc  Taxxe HAMH NOÆPOSHO obey xzanca, H PaGouan rpynna npuuna K 3aKA10(eHHN, uro » chepe xomne-  TeHUHN Hamed OpraHH3atiiu MM He MOXeM OÔCYXANATÈ BONPOS O Pa3oPy KCHHH B TOM CUBICHE, KaKOE  aro Gyaet pasopyxenne, - noA siPexTHBHHM Me XAYHAPO AHMM XOHTPINEM HAK ÉYAYT NPHMEHEHH  OTIRABHME GOPMH KOHTPONU, HAN XaKHE-TO BHAH pa3opyxeHHA BOINMOXHM 6e3 ocymecTBeHHA Mew.~  AYHAFOAHOFO KOHTPONA. M3! AOTOBOpHAHCb, NTO BO3MOXHAR ponb Opranxsæauun B céepe ee KoMne -  TEHUNH AONXHA COCTOATL B TOM, YTOÔH coaelicTBOBATL pAIOpyXEHHD H CONCHCTEOBATL TEM COMBM
482   BH le /ICHHI0 AONONHHTENBHLX CPE ACT ANA 60pb6L C TaKHMH NDORBNGHHAMH COBPOMOHHON XH3HH, 44  COBPEMOHHOTO COCTONHHA SKOHOMHYECKOH XII3HH MHPOBOrO obmectBa, Kak ronon, 6onesuu, Heme -  XeCTRO, HEFrpaMOTHOCTb H T.A. 51 AONXeH TaKxe o6paTHTL BHHMAHHE, YTO B naparpade 25 npoexra  peson»unw 18 C/PLLEN/DR.28 WHPOKO HCNONb3OBAHEI TO MO/I0XKOHHA, KOTOPHE COREPKANHCh rep  BOHaYaAbHO B npoexTe pesonvuun 18 C/PLEN/DR. 2 ub npoekTe pesonwuns 18 C/PLEN/DR.18,  NpeAacTaBAeHHOM HupepnangaMu H rpynnoil sanapHbx cTpaH.
(207,1) M, ANICHTCHOUK (République socialiste soviétique de Biélorussie), - (Traduit du russe. )  Madame la Présidente, en tant que membre du groupe de travail qui a préparé le projet de résolution
18 C/PLEN/DR. 28, je voudrais rappeler la position du groupe à l'égard des deux amendements proposés  par le délégué des Etats-Unis au vingt-sixième puls au vingt-cinquième alinéa du préambule, que nous  avions examinés en détail, La conclusion du groupé de travail était que la modification au vingt-sixième  considérant, qui a été tout à l'heure proposée à nouveau par M, le délégué des Etats-Unis, ne doit pas être  maiutenue, car il s'agit {ci d'une résolution conuréte et très importante de l'Assemblée générale des Na -  tioas Unies et de la nécessité (voir vingt-septitme considérant) pour l'Unesco d'en promouvoir l'applica-»  tion dans les domaînes de sa compétence,
(207.2) En ce qui concerne le vingt-cinquième considérant, le délégué des Etats-Unis a de nouveau sug-  géré d'ajouter les mots "sous contrôle international efficace”, Cette question, nous l'avons dûment appro-  fondie et le groupe a conclu que, dans les domaines de compétence de notre Organisation, nous ne pou-  vione étudier la question de la nature du désarmement ; serait-il assujetti à un contrôle international effi-  cace ou des formes de contrôle précises seralent-elles mises en oeuvre ou existerait-il des possibilités  de désarmement sans contrôle international ? Nous sommes convenus que, dans les domaines de sa com-  pétence, l'Organisation doit promouvoir le désarmement et encourager l'adoption de mesures supplémen-  tairee de lutte contre certains phénomènes économiques contemporains, comme la faim, la maladie, 1G5no-  rance, 'analphabétisine, etc. Je dois aussi attirer l'attention sur le fait que le vingt-cinquième considé-  rant du projet de résolution 18 C/DR. 28 reprend largement les principes qui étalent contenus dans le pro-  jet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 12 et dans le 18 C/PLEN/DR, 18 présenté par les Pays-Bas et un groupe  de pays occidentaux.
(207.3) Je pense que le texte actuel des vingt-cinquième, vIngt-sixième et vingt-septitme considérants  peut être conservé sans changement, Je vous remercie,
208.1 The PRESIDENT:  I will put to the vote the amendments submitted, or if there are other amendments 1 will  adjourn the meeting.
208, 2 There are no other amendments, so I will ask the Secretary to read the amendments one by  one,
209. The SECRETARY: -  Madam President, the first amendment concerns paragraph 23 which starts with the words  "Considering that the peoples struggling for their liberation...". The delegation of Ethiopia,  sub-amended by the delegation of Algeria, proposes to add after "for their liberation" the words  "from colonialism, racialism and foreign occupation" and then to continue "must be associated in  Unesco's activities",
210,1 The PRESIDENT:  The amendment ig put to the vote,  (The vote was taken by show of hands, )
210,2 The amendmen, is adopted by 68 votes to none, with 21 abstentions.
211, The SECRETARY:  Madam President, the next amendment comes from the delegation of China, which proposes  to delete paragraphs 25, 26, 27 and 28,
212,1 The PRESIDENT:
1 put to the vote the arnendment of China,  (The vote was taken by show of hands, )
212.2 The amendment is rejected by 24 votes to 2, with 61 abstentio.s,
213. The SECRETARY:  The next amendment, Madam President, comes In paragraph 25, In the order of wording the  first amendment is that of the United States of America, which proposes in the third line, in the  phrase which reads ‘through a reduction of armaments", to add after "armaments" the words  "under effective international control",
214. The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Peru has the floor on a point of order,
(215) M, CHIAPPO (Pérou), - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Motion d'ordre, Madame la Présidente, avant de passer au vote, Conformément au Règlement, il feut  d'abord voter sur les amendementa les plus éloignés du texte original et, à mon avis, l'amendement que  nous avons présenté est celui qui s'en éloigne le plus, car il introduit un concept nouveau, Veuillez me  dire, je vous prie, Madame la Présidente, si je suis dans l'erreur. Merci.
216, The PRESIDENT:  Yes, you are right.
217. The SECRETARY:  Iam sorry, Madam President. The amendment proposed by Peru would add after the same  words, "through a reduction of armaments", the words "and the transformation of the present  world economie structure”,
218, The PRESIDENT:  The Deputy Director-General has the floor,
219, Mr, FOBES (Deputy Director-General):  Madam President, then the Conference might wish to consider a change in the opening of {hat  paragraph, since General Assembly resolution 2602 E does not refer in {ts text to the transformation  of the world economic order, -
220, The PRESIDENT:
1 give the floor to the delegate of the Ukraine on a point of order,
221. T-u B.A.KPABEII (Yxpanuckana Coserckaa Couxanuotuueckan Pecny6auxa):  Bnaroaapw Bac, rocnoxa Mpeacenarens. Mos nenerauxa xorena 6ti OÉpATHTbCA K Aenerary  llepy co cnejyomHuM: Mb! BCeraa NOAREPAHBANH €r'0 NPeANOXEHUA H CFO NoNpaikH, HO, K COXaNE-  HHO, “TO KaraeTcs PyCCKOTO ‘TeKCTa, ero Nonpanka COBEpmeHHO He IOXHTCA B TO MeCTO, KoTopoe  OH mp2anaraeT MNocñe crop "coxpameuxe BOOPY XeHKRA", u6o B PyOCKOM TOKCTE MOCHE 3TOrO HROT  “HCMONbIOBAHHD CIKOHOM/IEHHEX TAKHA 06pa3oM CpeAcTE ANA Nporpecca” H T.2. Ecnu NOCTABHTE  Ha 3T0 MeCTO TIONPABKY yBAXa@MOro aenerata flepy, To B pyCCKOM TeXKCTe NONMy“aeTCA COBEpmeH-  Heilman 6eccuucnnua. KonewHO, Npd TaKHX YCHOBHAX Mb He CHOXEM NOAXPXaTb Ero MONPABKy,  Brarosapp Bac.
(221) M. V.A, KRAVETS (République socialiste soviétique d'Ukraine), - (Traduit du russe. )  Merci, Madame la Présidente, Ma délégation voudrait s'adresser au délégué du Férou : nous avons  toujours appuyé ses propositions et amendemente mais, malheureusement, en ce qui concerne le texte  russe, l'amendement qu'il propose, après les mots "réduction des armements" n'est pas approprié, car  la phrase se poursuit en ces termes ''à l'affectation des ressources ainsi économisées su progrès", etc.  Si l'on inséraft à cet endroit l'amendement du délégué du Pérou, le texte russe n'aurait plus aucun sens,  Naturellement, dans ces conditions, nous ne pourrons appuyer cet amendement. Je vour remercie,
222. The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Cuba has the floor,
(223) M, LE RIVEREND (Cuba). - (Tradait de l'espagnol. )  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Un mot seulement pour demander À notre collègue le délégué du Pérou  de retirer son amendement, D'abord parce qu'il est évident qu'il doit y avoir, qu'il y a et qu'il y aura  de plus grandes transformations économiques dans le monde. Ensuite parce que dans le contexte de cet  alinéa, 1) est établi non pas que la réduction des armements ser ‘ra le progrès et le bien-être de l'huma-  nité raais que la réduction des armements produira des économies destinées à obtenfr ... etc. Nous esti-  mons déne que notre collègue du Pérou pourrait ret{rer sa proposition sans que la vérité qu'il a rappelée  en pâtisse, à savoir que des transformations économiques sont indispensables sf l’on veut atteindre les  objectifs véritables de l'humanité, Je vous remercie,
224, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Peru has the floor,
(225,1) M, CHIAPPO (Pérou). - (Traduit de l'espagnol, )  Madame la Présidente, peut-être le Secrétaire n'a-t-11 pas lu notre proposition dans sa totalité parce  que nous ne parlerions plus ensuite des ressources ainsi économisées, cela serait absurde ; je suis entiè-  rement d'accord avec le délégué de l’Union soviétique ; 11 serait absurde de parler de ressources écono-  misées pour transformer la structure économique du monde actuel), Aussi rnon amendement écrit est-il  afnsi libellé : "et les ressources qui en dérivent'", c'est-à-dire les ressources que procureralent la réduc-  tion des armements et la transformation des structures économiques mondiales.
(225.2) Ainsi notre amendement aurait un sens tandis que sous la forme lue par le Secrétaire, je recon-  nafs qu'il est absurde. Madame la Présidente, sl malgré cet éclaircissement, mes amis les distingués  délégués de l'Union soviétique et de Cuba considèrent que cette {nsertion au vingt-cinquième considérant  est peu pertinente, je leur demande de chercher avec moi où l'on pourrait introduire cette idée que nous  considérons comme fondamentale pour la révolution totale de l'humanité et l'accession effective au bien-  être et A la justice. Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente,
226, The PRESIDENT:  I cannot answer your question. I will ask the Secretary to read the text of the amendment  again,
227, Le SECRETAIRE, -  Avec l'amendement proposé par le Pérou, le paragraphe 25 ge lirait comme suit : “Rappelant  que la décennie du désarmement proclamée par l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies dans sa  résolution 2602 E (XXIV) du 16 décembre 1969 doit contribuer, grâce à la réduction des arme-  ments et à la transformation de la structure économique du monde actuel, à l'affectation des res-  sources ainsi économisées au progrès du bien-être de l'humanité, par l'intensification..." (le  reste sans changement).
228, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Peru has the floor.
(229,1) M, CHIAPPO (Pérou), - (Traduit de l'espagnol, }  Je vous demande pardon, Madame la Présidente, mais effectivement sous cette forme l'alfnéa n'est  pas correct, Je voudrais qu'on dise : "grace à la réduction des armements et, dans des conditions de trans-  forination de la structure économique du mcnde actuel; a l'affectation des ressources ainsi économisées, .. "":  mals "dans certaines conditions" serait une formule intermédiaire qui, bien entendu, n'a rien 3 voir avec  la résolution 2602 de l'Asserablée des Nations Unies qui ne se réfère pas - comme l'a fait observer Je  Directeur général adjoint - à la strwcture.
(229,2) Nous voudrions ajouter : "que l'application de cette résolution du désarmement bénéficie, grace  rux ressources économisées, au progrès et au blen-être de l'humanité", J'ihsiste auf le fall que nous  ajoutons "dans les conditions d'une transformation da la structure écoremique du monde actuel". Je ne  sale pas sl avec cette explication les délégués de l'Union soviétique et de Cuba qui ont trouvé mon texte  absurde peuvent en percevoir ezactement le sens. Je vous remercie,
230, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Is the Secretary going to read again the amendment suggested by the delegate of  Peru?
231, The SECRETARY:  I am sorry, Madam President, I cannot read it, this does not conform to the text which was  submitted by the delegate of Peru originally,
232, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of the Ukraine has the floor,
233.1 F-u B.A.KPABEI (Yxpanuckasa CopeTckan Counanucruieckas Pecny6auxa):  Bnaronapw sac, ToBlIpeacenatens. Ton.MipencexaTens, a xouy OpaTHTBCA K nernevary Tepy,  Kak H ypaxaeMufl generat KyGr ¢ npocnh6oft CHATL CBOD NONpaBky K AAHHOMY NYHKTY, BO3MOXHO,
3TH HAGH, O KOTOpHX ypaxaeMu#t aenerar Mepy rosopHT, AeficTBHTE/NBHO SACAYXHBANT HAWeEro  BHHMAHH#. Ho HaM KaxeTcs, YTO 3TH HAGH HAXOAAT OTPAXEHHE B NyHxTax 29 H 30 Ipeambynu, rae  peub HAT O HOBOM MeXAYHAPOAHOM 3KOHOMHYWECKOM TOPHAKE H, cnenoBaTeNbHo, O CTPYKType, O  KOTOpoñ ropopit ypaxaeMuil aenerar Mepy.
233.251 He sHam, Kak OGCTOHT AE/IO C HCMAHCKHM TEKCTOM, HO B PYOCKOM TEKCTE MPOCTO AOFHYOC-  KH H B CMBIC/IOBOM OTHOMEHHH ANR STOR HAGH A He HAXOXY AOCTATOYHO MpHEMAGMOTO MecTa, TeM
6onee, 4TO B 3TOM TeKCTe, KOTOPHH y HAC HMeeTCH, OYeHb MHOFO I'OBOPHTCH O TOM, YTO coKpale-  HHe BOOPY XeHHRA nosponuno 6K CSKOHOMHTb CPEeACTBA H HCMONBL3OBATh HX C TAKHMH Gnaropo AHH MH  yenaMH, KaK 6Gopb6a C ronoaom, GONE3HAMH, HEBEXECTBOM, HerpaMOTHOCTEN, TO ECTb TO, YTO  COCTAB/NHET KOMNETEHUHO H Hawell OpraHH3auxH. Baaronapwo Bac,
(233.1) M, KRAVETZ (République socialiste soviétique d'Ukraine). - (Traduit du russe. )  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je voudrais m'adresser au délégué du Pérou et au délégué de Cuba  pour leur demander de retirer leur amendement à l'alinéa en question, Il est possible que les idées dont  a parlé le délégué du Pérou, méritent effectivement notre attention, mais Il nous serable qu'elles sont  exprimées dans les considéranta 29 et 30 qui évoquent le nouvel ordre économique {nternational et donc  la structure dont fait état le délégué du Pérou,
(233,2) Je ne sals pas ce qu'il en est dans le texte espagnol mais, en russe, du point de vue de la logique  et du raisonnement, je ne vols pas où l'insertion peut se faire, d'autant que le texte à l'étude rappelle  souvent que la réduction des armements permettrait d'économiser des ressources et de les affecter à des  fins utiles, comme la lutte contre la faim, la maladie, l'ignorance, l'analphabétisme, qui ressortissent  à la compétence de notre Organisation. Je vous remercie.
234, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Th2 delegate of Peru has the floor.
(235) M, CHIAPPO (Pérou). - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Madame la Présidente, je retire l'amendement, Merci,
236, The PRESIDENT:  This one is finished, 1 give the floor to the Secretary of the General Conference,
237, The SECRETARY:  Madam President, we can now come to thé amendment I originally read, as proposed by the  delegate of the United States of America, which would add after the words "to a reduction of  armaments, .." the words ",..under effective international control",
238,1 The PRESIDENT:  The amendment {a put to the vote,  (The vote was taken by show of hands, )
238.2 The amendment is adopted by 57 votes to 2, with 27 abstentions.
239, The SECRETARY:  The next amendment, Madam President, comes also from the delegation of the United States  of America. It would add at the end of paragraph 26 the following words: "’and the Secretary-  General's report on this subject in resolution A/9770 of 14 October 1974 as well #5 other General  Assembly resolutions relating to economic and social aspects of disarmament measures".
240,1 The PRESIDENT:  The amendment is put to the vote,  (The vote was taken by show of hands, )
240.2 The amendment fe adopted by 43 votes to 1, with 36 abstentions,
241, Le SECRETAIRE, -  Madame la Présidente, l'amendement suivant, proposé par la Yougoslavie, concerne le vingt-  huitième considérant. Le texte se lirait comme suit : ""Soulignant aussi ... et que l'Unesco peut  et doit contribuer, dans les domaines de sa compétence, aux travaux qui seraient entrepris en  conséquence",
242.1 The PRESIDENT:  I put the amendment to the vote. Are there any objections?
242.2 There are no objections, I declare the amendment adopted unanimously.
243, Le SECRETAIRE, - )  La délégation de la Suisse a proposé la suppression pure et simple des vingt-neuvième et  trentléme considérants qui commencent respectivement par "'Rappelant également les résolu-  tions ..." et par "Préoccupde en particulier par les incidences .,,".
244,1 The PRESIDENT:  I put the amendment to the vote,  (The vote was taken by show of hands.)
244.2 The amendment is rejected by 64 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions,
245, Le SECRETAIRE, -  Madame la Présidente, en ce qui concerne le trentième considérant, la Yougoslavie a proposé  un autre amendement qui coneisterait à ajouter après : "et l'Information" les mots "notamment  dans les pays en vole de développement". ;
246.1 The PRESIDENT:  Are there any objections? I consider the amendment as accepted, Ladies and gentlemen, we  have completed the third part of the preamble, This afternoon we shall resume with the rest of  the preamble and of document 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28, 7
246.2 Now I give the floor to the Secretary who will outline the rest of our work for today,
247, The SECRETARY:  Madam President, 1 think that we cannot avoid a night session. Hopefully, the closure of the  eighteenth session of the General Conference can take place in a night session at 9 o'clock during  which representatives of Member States will speak, the President of the Executive Board will  speak and the President of the General Conference will speak, and the Director-General will make  a statement, Thank you, Madam President,
248, The PRESIDENT:  Well, I hope it will only be a night session and not tomorrow morning as well, The meeting  is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 1,25 p.m,  La géance est levée à 13 h. 25  Se levanta la gesién a las 13, 25
3acenante 3aKpHBaeTca B 134, 25 MHH.  Jost) Joan BF U erie pradhy TSN FTIR] oF él J1 ss,