Fifteenth plenary meeting
25 October 1974, at 3,10 p.m,  President: Mrs, Jébord (Hungary)  Quinzième séance plénière
25 octobre 1974, à 15 h, 10 |  Président : Mme Joburid (Hongrie)  Décimoquinta sesiôn plenaria
5 de doll WI FAR]  AIF oa BLD aye Ja V1 psf 0S) Vo  (ER 3 Jeu] : 3081  FIRST REPORT OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE/ PREMIER RAPPORT DU COMITE JURIDIQUE  PRIMER INFORME DEL COMITE JURIDICO/ MEPBEI TOKAI OPHAHUYECKOTO KOMHTETA /  ap Wal Jy VU ia
1. The PRESIDENT:  The meeting fs called to order. I give the floor to Mr. Adnan Nachabe to introduce the first  report of the Legal Cornmittee,  (epi anil) ols glue andl ND)  ¢ ole Flues TA LE PE  MYCA «CEB 1 1Y pV A (Pa Beall inde il) igs BV ial) Jy VU tel Lie ST 51 oy ys)  Sete! ue VA 58  i Aly Yd) 5 Ai EI al Ge pL), Ss Slims ole fle à) Whaa do) 451 — vy  Jovy lots Voki, or dll) razed sde pial Vie pèse (¥1,50)5 (V0) wetted Lbs
(3 Sass dl Led gous le lun Vel died lal doa! Us Je vag à pla) 728 ole ll taal  ira Les AL MALE WED | UT] FO JPN Ahatli,  daaladl ply PW Wil J vais gy 1209  Las sSapdlolbles joo amd Yad ull LIN Gy Goa july Gil EST 3 aed]  a Baal Jy Wma Ly Goons dl Ash ME peat) Acte pos à pL) sie els ells ÿ  . sal Who 8 5 ddl PO PON 1 J RE JF] COUR | FPR UN [JC NTE JPY AL CULE JTL YS  Aabe dant jis LJ sis oho Las Lys po) 1 ess dsadl op dn laa) LE et July LY  p- 2558 on beds LS 1 Bethesda (GIN eds à BEY) pale lid JY ws  esate lhite Baz 20 chile lin Ll BY Bak 2050 Vis pad ob Glo 0 (Sed er 5 1  RETA T pl és PATE CIRC TT POR Lin, ATRL RICH FURPR ABUS  porte abit 3) up SN Grud) Gh AS UN RUE Laas gla Vella! Gis aly — ut  Cpe 35 Bas 3 Wael etl ol od G0 (Sad our VIT Nav 700A ph Bed) odd Lapis  : ak UW  y AUG de sa We aml edt 33 0 RAGIIT eat EL, pW ny ALU deal — vo  oI BD ge (1) 39g (0) BIN le psn Neuse jeial) Jy II ddl on  eo AUN LIA ar Beis) Ah, dy € Ye/piA BASU (CE) sald) J LIL ga 5 SAN  istehalill peat ana olay 5 dd plead) 0551 Wl J BLY JIE gt Go SLIT aU  ah pa Bye RASE agité Ly dies NAY el cB pw glue el, aly  CTP NPC Tet] BE FOR IRTP NC OS PAIE PAR A EV NOR PAR Irs WCW TURE WR WEIR RY
15 VIN 5 YOU. su) PHREPOSP REINA ARERR VAS CEN TIRO% BF SR I SIP  Blan so sl op de Lal VG 11) 8, JU pL dealt Van ose pall Le ce y 35000  cA 10a ue VLG) (jaa gy uns oY  polite I olne Vl Replat Lost 65 € (Sle adyanll dunk! LLU LAS Beall Wo yn  » Lpslshyptge cums hal ostiol 0 101/004 BSI va pa Baill GoTo LI0 cL  Gob lamlid! on 5) 5 Gp AU 5 Gi el ol Be FM 1 es Le ise Let) voy  YOY fEp/ 40 (5) 6d) plead 5 V5 Ganley uy gl hé le Le JY Las els  pho Sls Y dant! gua) Ld! wind @ LOU bad eh) gl Aie pydges pW)  od ie pd p10 Lye pads) Min ad hi, gd) cal a hlasYlada Gl pl SIN EX Blake Sd)  . dual oF he 152 . llssŸl sde ol 4 dolly Sols Wy,adl cLLl cla ly
(2.1) ir. ADNAN NACHABE (Chairman of the Legal Committee) (Translation from the Arabic):  Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Ihave the honour to fntroduce the {irst report of the Legal  Committee, contained in document 18 C/117 of 24 October 1974, which is before you.
(2.2) 1 would like, first of all, to make it clear that in accordance with the directives of the General Com-  mittee, fhe Legal Committee has accorded priority in its work to {tema 21 and 21,1, which constitute the  subject ¢f this report and deal with à draft âmeridment of the Rules of Progedure of the General Conference,  a draft amendment of the Regulations for the general classification of the various categories of meetings  convened by Unesco and a draft amendment of the rules concerning the Participation Programme, with a  view to allowing the African liberation movements recognized by the OAU, as well as the liberation move-  ments recognized by regional international organizations, to participate in Uneaco's activities, including  the General Conference, and inviting the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), recognized by the League  of Arab States, to attend the eighteenth session of the General Conference In conformity with the Executive  Board's dectelons in thie regard,
(2.3) Due to the similar nature of these two topics, the Committee decided to discuss them together, and  include them in a single report,- the first part of which 18 devoted to the African liberation movements, and  the second to the PLO, as you might have noticed in the report before you. The report includes two annex-  es; the first contains the three draft resolutions ôn the African liberation organizations, and the second  contains the three draft resolutions relating to the PLO.
(2.4) Consequently, and following the four meetings during which the Legal Committee discussed the two  above-mentioned items, it adopted the draft of ite first report, {.=, document 18 C/117 which is before you.  In introducing this document, I wish to refer to the following points.  i - +
(2.5) As to item 21 concerning the African liberation organizations, the Committee has adopted, ae is in-  dicated in paragraph 7 of the first part of the report, a substantive amendment of paragraph 5 of Rule 6 of  the Rules of Procedure proposed in the draft resolution contained in Annex IV to dacument 18 C/20, with a  view to reconciling this text with that included in the corresponding draft resolution on the PLO proposèd  by the Executtve Board, In other words, the Committee was of the opinfon that African liberation move-  ments recognized by OAU should be invited to participate In General Conference sessions according to the  procedure followed in the cage of the PLO, that fs, without the proviso that the invitation should be ap-  proved by a two-thirds majority of members of the Executive Board, The Committee adopted this aniend-  ment without any objection, as is {indicated in paragraph 7 of the first part of the report, This amendment  was reflected in draft resolution 1 which has aleo been unanimously adopted, and whose text! 18 included in  Annex 1 to this report,
(2,6) As to the remaining five resolutions submitted to you, the Legal Committee has adopted them on the  basis of the draft resolutions contained in documents 18 C/20 and 18 C/111, that {s without introducing any  substantive amendment.
(2.7) In conclusion, I wish to point out that the Legal Committee has found it appropriate to add at the end  of ite first report the preamble to Executive Board decision 9% EX/7.7; regarding the PLO, so as to clarify  the considerations on which the Board based ité above-mentioned decision and ensure that the General Con-  ference took these considerations into account when discussing this matter, since no mention was made of  them fr the preambles to the relevant resolutions put before you. Thank you, Madam President,
3.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Legal Committee, The debate is now open on the report of the  Legal Committee,
3.2 I give the floor to the delegate of Iraq.  (SLY) plu l 5j a) ge pS ul dead — OO)  diol lg el ame hu Jl aa!  rile Lite Ghhuli}l pelt ét Jp outa, Ball) isp Glo dys BI) dal ond) del Sel  lire Ÿ dé os ddl IFO Vo ol JEU INCH VIS US SPE [oy tDVRPL PN RSC NIE StS |  omy Ah l nella AGIT eall Bans Belull clyu of 0 Olds Glo opt Lamy ool)  vad Vig inlay dil. dsl  Pol canal Lepab hall J pealye dadhalidt email autiin 3s Jlnadd Van 0 Splat ol ab — (or  Lupt ptet ath gods SIL; eluant ob ead! Wh Slail past I  ha al haa Glos dy 0 STE GL ge of dal 5e als glalh lanl a gadt sda ded
378    oleae WY anis à wbhdl Ga daar pe lymge Else gn sams dy) or suds Goo GLASS  benylny OI! JUS pl Ga Luigi giant) ell ASE, dusadl pil aba ll eds By 1 LI j  TEX FOV VERE SURI IR ATR | FPRVH IV | FPSPORE J JOR | LI. Lao ail lil RE  L4yhéee Sp FRET. (| ET DS WRN | VY] dll annee le als Val 555 Lpale CBS RCE  CW edt gp his ole GUS SL Gi guS ail das Libye aboli Glo ais Ÿ LUS  « gegm5M habite Le cathsl @lad! oa dine Logo adhd gy  donbite Jad cil Leland Ber putt) Vie JXA 6 ll Lagan duos] Vlada C5, Jy — OF  EVO NOT] EVO T LIER | ICI PO) PRO SW HPAP {EVP | BY CO | ROP]
3568 hall Ratt Vos 5,8 LLB 6 Spb Viet at Sp SLAM LIN 5 — Et  LSU pads LAI 000 oe Gabe à HL cfd) Nia go Sable grill, Jus  ole BUSI) Gy 6 Bagi) Grain] Bly pubaail Game Ley pes ¢ Lule Bly + ebadiflnsil gpa)  :  prilär une 5 hole G,läs pJlas PN 1 FPR TPP WE COP] CC  Lily apple pach ob Ueda pall § Whe ya (Shs  Gp; Ton, Vom pase it Yuga] go Line ALE GAIUI Layo pics I Lise Ÿ an  SI DWC LR PPREE VO ol JU Lys à Molly a el) aile ods vy
(4.1) Mr, EL-BASSAM (Iraq) (Translation from the Arabic):  Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to thank the Chalrman of the Legal Committee for intro-  ducing the Committee's report on the admission of the PLO and the African liberation organizations to the  General Conference as observers. 1 appreciate the decisions already adopted by the Executive Board in  this respect. This Conference wag fully aware in its previous sessions of the African liberation move-  mente’ call for the Implementation of these decisions, and it tnok a positive stand In this regard.
(4.2) In this connexion, I wish to take up the PLO issue, calling on you to examine it guided by both a  sense of justice, and a deep insight into the course of events. Justice should be rendered to the Palestinian  peuple whose rights have been flagrantly violated for more than fifty years. This violation has taken the  form of expelling this people from ite homeland, usurping its property, denying it the most elementary  rights of citizenship and condemning it to live in refugee camps. The United Nations has adopted many re-  solutions affirming these rights,. including the right to repatriation and to citizenship under all ite forms,  As for insight into the course of events, it 1s a fact that peoples never give up their rights, and if they mo-  mentarily fall victim to the joint forces of agression, they soon recover the will to continue the struggle,  Thus it was no wonder, as the tragedy fs not confined to Palestine but extends to the Arab people as a whole,  that liberation forces should resume their struggle and rise up to defend their rights, And this is the task  that has been assumed by the PLO,
(4.3) The United Nations General Assembly has adopted a positive stand during this month, while the  Palestine {asue was being considered, by accepting the presence of the PLO as the sole representative of  the Palestinian people,
(4.4) In ite recent sessions, the General Conference of Unesco has taken up many issues in the fields of  education, sclence and culture, as they relate to the Palestinian people. This very session of the Confer-  ence 18 dealing with certain aspects of these fssues, involving the violation of the rights of the Palestinian  people, such as the right to education in conformity with its national identity, the right to preserve its cul-  tural property and the right to preserve the heritage of its civilization, especially in Jerusalem, Your  acceptance of the PLO as observer in the Conference is a prelude to your gaining the benefit of {te insight  into these rights, and ite experience in safeguarding their maintenance; it will by the same token pave the  way for the full restoration of these rights, including the right of return to the homeland - which {fs Inevita-  ble. Peoples cannot be subdued; freedom and justice are bound to emerge victorious in the long run,  Thank you, Madam President,
5. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Iraq and I give the floor to the delegate of China,
6.1 M, LI KUANG-TSE (République populaire de Chine), - (Déclaration faite en chinofs, Version  française établie d'après l''wtérprétation)  ‘Madame la Présidente, _. délégation chinoise appuié' fermement le projet d'amendement pré-  senté par les pays africains visant à inviter les mouvements de Ubération africains reconnus par  l'OUA à prendre part aux activités de notre Assemblée, ainsi que la proposition faite par les pays  arabes tendant A ce que les représentants de l'OLP puissent y participer à titre d'observateurs.
6.2 Comme vous le savez, la délégation chinoise appuie également la proposition qui est faite  d'apporter les amendements nécessaires aux articles pertinents de l'Acte constitutif de l'Unesco;  elle est d'accord avec les trois projets qui figurent dans l'annexe I du premier rapport du Comité  juridique, ainsi qu'avec les trois autres projets contenus dans l'annexe II, Voilà ce que j'avais à  vous dire. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
7, The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of China and I give the floor to the delegate of Saud! Arabla.  EVR | Wr | a D NA awl dad! = A)  hed Noob 152  da ME LISE ds Vas) 5 pull qhuoc VY SLI LEV ALL SLY eat ui
15° 55 | I WN] PC] VIN | 0 pBŸ [TI RR FOU WO FO V7 VOY SUN PIU COMUIPIN B Vies à AL, |  ela Lote Bole maid! 108 of Tapa denloadt 150 ¥1 ee ofl Tin Gb ISA Et ayisdl J) agony  SV dense Of PSS IITTIRE Fl DIVIDE WET IOD FORVIC RRL T WIWER TJX SEAT IPF I  Lia cya ol 0 V1 Shan Go hd) psd JT pli al Wg 5 vlad! flat Lid old  (gmap) Lan Jus) Gaal) pubis) Gling BAIN y l Lis Jha ise pila) wip!  NE VATUNT IS FIVER) PRIX SOU 5 Ile Ge peu) Ney US IFS  Ba pgs LCR ALI COPIE V1 opel Sm Glia G30 05% oY gm, 3 Rl — Av  INE PU | JRO I 1] PAR IVR Pu FOU J STI Vis ue WPL PL] FT ON | JR 5e C1 RTT I SRP PR  FINCH ARH | FV) | RR CPTI] y SRB a VR SPY pas 5 UNE 1] POSS JCD | 6 pp US CPR TA  Va pr es POL] PREC ST biogas eh Lal ul Oeadad | panne Let cws Venu ody Wil ells  au) pis gall al Laas ATLA oN cL paul du bale WS fal Uy ie Gadi retennny  Sls ltl LBs alle
(8.1) Mr. AHMED MOHAMMAD ALI (Saudi Arabia) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Ma Jam President, I have listened carefully to the valuable speech delivered this morning  by the head of the United States delegation, This is only natural since he fs an outstanding university man,  I wish to support the eloquent appeal he addressed to members taking part in the debate that political fssues  should be kept away from this reatrum, and that emphasis be laid on enhancing the lofty human principles  upheld by Unesco in the fields of education, science and culture. I hope that the United States delegation  itself will respond positively to this sincere appeal, will not dwell upon the political aspects of the topic  under discussion and will vote In favour of inviting the representatives of the African liberation organiza-  tions as well as the representatives of the Palestinian people to participate in the work of this conference.  Such an attitude, If adopted, would help consolidate one of the basic principles of Unesco, namely, univer-  sality.
(8.2) It is my hope that the representatives of the African liberation movements and the representatives  of the Palestinian people will be unanimously invited to participate in our conference. Iam certain that  unanimous approval by this august assembly of the draft resolutions before us would bring nearer the day,  inevitable as it is, when a welcome will be accorded in this very hall, God willing, to the representatives  of the State of Palestine, a State under whose banner all its citizens, be they Jewish, Christian or Muslim,  would live in harmony and fraternity, as they have done throughout history. May God guide you to stand by  the right and to hoist {ts banner aloft, Peace be upon y:
9. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Saudi Arabia and I give the floor to the delegate of the Soviet Union,
10.1 Tpod. C.JI. THXBHHCKHH (Cons Copercxux Counanxctnueckux Pecny6nuK):  Yeaxaemufl ToBapHm M pencenaterns, ypaxaesmue generate. COBETCKAN AO/IOTALUHA C YYBCTBOM  TAYGOKOFO yAOBNe TBOPEHHA BOCNPHHA/NA pemeHHe HcnoauntenrHoro conera Hamel OpraHH3aLHH MpH-  rNacHTh aenerauHom OPTAHH3SLIHK OCBOGOXAOHHA MNManecTHHH ANA YYACTHA B paboTe HacToAmeR ceccHH  TexeparsHof koHPepeHunH. Mt BCEUEIO NOAKEPXHBAOM 3TO pelleHHe H 3A0Cb Ha l'eneparbHoñ konde-  PpeHUHH. HCTOPHA GAHXHOBOCTOYHOIO KOHQ/AHKTA H NPEANPHHHMABIHXCH YCHNHKHA ANY Oro paspemeHHa C  OYOBHAHOCTHI MOKA3HRBA@T, YTO K/IDYOM K yPOTy/IHPOBAHHD BONPpOCA ABAASTCA BHBOA BOËCK Hapanna  CO BC@X 3AXBa4W@HHHX HM B 1967 roay apa6cKkux TeppHTopHä H OGECNOUeHHE 3aKOHHMX MpaB HAC@/OHHA  ManecrHHE, apa6cxoro Hapoxa IlanecTHHE. Cxopefilmee KoHCTPYKTHBHOE POMEHHE STHX KAPAHHANBHHX  npo6neM, a He OTB/16Y6HHE BHHMAHHA HA BTOPOCTONMO6HHHE BONÇOCH, ABNHOTCH KOPOHHHM YC/OBHOM  YPperynHpoBaHHa Ha BIHXHeM BOCTOKE. DTO ABNAGTCA HONPOÔMEHHHM YCHOBHOM YCTAHOB/OHHA MOANHH-  HO CNPaBeANHBOTO MHpa HA B1HxHeM BOCTOKE H OTBOYA@T HHTEPECaM BCOX TOCYAAPCTB H HAPpoñoB. He-  YPperyIHpoBaHHOCTb 6HHXHEBOCTOYHOÏ MNpOGNREME HAXOAHTCH B PO3XOM NMPOTHBOPEYHH C O6MHM npouec-  COM paspAAKH HaNpsi XeHHOCTH B MHpe. MH TROpAO yGexA0HN, YTO HE MOXOT GL Th NPOYHOro MHPA Ha  BñuxHem BocToxe Gea npHeMiemMoro AA MANGCTHHCKOTO HapoAa permeHHAa NPOGNOME ero IAKOHENX  npaB B COOTBOTCTBHH C YcTaBOM OpraHHaauxH OGT6AHH6EHHNX Hauxñ H pemeHHAMH T'enepansHoñ Ac-  caMbnen. Moxa He pemeH STOT BONPOC, EONpPOC OGECNEYWCHHA MHpA, Mb, BCO CHANLHO B 9TOM SAGHHH,  B 3TOM 3ane, BPAA IH CMOXEM KOHCTPYKTHBHO NPOABHraTLCA B pemeHHH APYTHX BONPOCOB, BXOAAMHX  B KOMNe6TeHLHD IOHECKO. Mu BHCTYNa@M 3a TAKOR MOAXOA MNOTOMY, “TO MONHTHKA MHPA, NOJHTHKA  OTNOPa arpeccHH, MONHTHKA NPHIHAHHA H SAMHTM CYBOPOHHMX FNpap HAPOAOD = 3TO OCHOBA BHOMHOR  HOJMHTHKH CopeTCKOro Copaa Ha MeXAyHapoaHoll apexe.
10.2 Tlanectunckan npobnema, XaK HGOTROMNGMAA YACTb 61HXHOBOCTOYHOTO YPpeory/HposaHHA, rMpea-  ctapnser cobofl MONHTHYECKyD npobrexy, H 4TO 61 HaM HH FOBOPH/H ACACFATH pAAa CTPAH, MN He  MOXOM YXOAHTb B CTOPOHY OT POHEHHHA STHX AXTYA/bHMX MONHTHYOCKHX npobnem, H60 9TH npobaeMu  SaTparHBaDT CYABÔN HAPpOXOB, IATPpArHBADT 3AKOHHMO HALHOHA/NBHHO H XHI3HOHHME npobaemu. Hons-
3H CBOAHTB MNpoÔNOMy NANOCTHHCKYD TONbKO K MNPO6NOMAM NAaNeCTHHCKHX Gexenues - 370 GonbuoR no-  AHTHY@CKHH BONPOC, H MH CO ECOÏ ACHOCTBD AONMHM Cobo NPÉACTABHTL IHAYEHHE STONO BONPOCA.
10.3 COBOTCHAN Aeneralls CUKMTA@T CBOHM AONTOM OTMETHTB, UTO Oprauxaauma ochoboxAeHHA Mane-  OTHHM - 9TO pyKOBOAAMAN CHA B GOphGe NanecTHHCKOrO Hapoña 38 CBOH JAKOHHSIO HAUXMOHANEHHE  npapa, STO HACTORMEN HALMOHB/ABHO-OCBOGOAHTONBHAR GophÉa H MOA OTHM YF/IOM MH H AONXHH pac-  CMATPHBATb ABHXOHH6 Apa6cKoro Hapoaa INar6cTHHH B CBOTE pesONDuUHH l'enepanbHoñ Accau6ren OT
104 CoBSTCKAR AGNGTALIMA CUHTAÔT, TO HO NOANOXHT HHKAKHM AHCKYCCHAM BONDOC O NPHIIAMOHHH  Am yyactus B paGore nameñ T'exnepanbHoR KOHPEpPeHLH!I NPEACTABATENOH OCBOGOAHTONPHNX ABHXOHHA
380   AGpuKH, KOTOpHE NPH3HAHM OpraHHaauHeñ AGpHKaHCKOro GAHHCTBA. HeT Heo6XxoaKMOCTH NOAPOGHO  TOBOPHIB O TEX DPHAHYQCKHX OCHOBAHHAX, HA OCHOBE KOTOPHX MH NPHIAAMAGM KAK NPOACTABUTENR  OpraHH3alHH OCBOGOXAOHHA IANECTHHH, TAK H npeacTapnTeneil AGPpHKAHCKHX HALHOHANBHO-OCBOÉOAH"  T@/ILHEIX ABHXOHHÂ yYACTBOBATh B paboTe D'eHopanbHoR KoHGepeHuHH.
10.5 Ha KondepeHuun apa6ckHx rocyaapcTs B AnxHpe B HOR6pe 1973 r., Ha KoHdepeHIUHH Mycyas=  MaHCKHX CTpaH B Jlaxope p Jeppane 1974 r. Ha STOT cueTr yxe Gs171H NPHHATH HCuepnMBapmHe peme=  HHA» DTO = AOCTATOUHO ABTOPHTETHBIE POPYMEI H HEAB3IA CTABHTb MOA COMHOHHO HX POmOHHSA.
(10.1) MR. TIKHVINSKY (Union of Soviet Soclalist Republica) (Translation from the Russian):  Madam President, distinguished delegates, the Soviet delegation warmly welcomed the Executive  Board's decision to invite a delegation of the Palestine Liberation Organization to take part in the proceed-  ings of this session of the General Conference, It Is therefore natural that we should give it our full sup-  port at the General Conference, The history of the Middle East conflict and of the efforts that have been  made to resolve it shows clearly that the key to the situation is the withdrawal of Israel's forces from all  the Arab territory which it selzed in 1967 and the guaranteeing of the legal rights of the inhabitants of  Palestine, the Palestinian Arab people. The rapid and constructive solution of these central probleme,  and a refusal to allow attention to be diverted to side issues, Îs an essential condition for achieving à settle-  ment in the Middle East, It ia an indispensable condition for the establishment of a genuine peace with jue-  tice in this area, and it is in the interests of all the States and peoples involved. The continuing tension in  the Middle East stands in sharp contrast with thc general trend towards a relaxation of tension In the world.  We are convinced that there can be no lasting peace In this area unless the problem of the legal rights of  the Palestinian people fa solved in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and the resolutions of  the General Assembly and In a way which fs acceptable to the Palestinian people itself. As long as this  question, the question of ensuring peace in the Middle East, 1s not solved, none of us sitting here in thie  hall can expect to make a constructive contribution to the solution of other problems which come within the  field of Unesco's competence, We adopt this approach because a policy directed to the promotion of peace,  the frustration of aggression and the recognition and defence of the sovereign rights of all peoples forme  the basis of the Soviet Union's policy in International affairs,
(10.2) The Palestinian problem, as an inseparate component of a Middle Eastern settlement, constitutes a  political problem, and whatever the dolegater of certain countries may say, we cannot dissociate ourselves  from the solution of political problems which affect the vital and legitimate national Interests of a people.  Nor can the Palestinian problem be reduced merely to the question of Palestinian refugees. It is a major  political problem and we must face squarely up to its full significance.
(10.3) The Soviet delegation considers it has a duty to point out that the Palestine Liberation Organization  le leading the Palestinian people in the struggle for its legitimate national rights, which is in fact a genuine  struggle for national liberation, It 1s ulso from this standpoint that we must see tiie raovciaent of the  Palestinian Arab people in the light of the General Assembly resolution of 30 November 1970.
(10.4) The Soviet delegation considers that there should be no need for discussion of the question of inviting  representatives of African liberation movuments recognized by the Organization of African Unity to partici.  pate in the work of our General Conferenc~, There 18 no reason to discuss in detail the legal basis for the  invitations which we extend either to the representative of the Palestine Liberation Organization or to the  representatives of the African national lileration movements to take part in the work of our General  Conference,
(19.5) Comprehensive decisions in the matter have already been taken at the Conference of Arab States  held at Algiers in November 1973 and at the Conference of Moslem States held at Lahore in February 1974.  Thege organizations are both endowed with sufficient authority for there to be no question of impugning  their decisions,
(10,6) The Soviet delegation supports draft resolutions 1, 2 and 3 of the report of the Legal Committee.  Thank you, Madam President,
11, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of the Soviet Union and I give the floor to the delegate of Guinea,
12.1 M, CAMARA (Guinée). -  Madame la Présidente, seuls ceux qui sont de mauvaise foi peuvent s'opposer à la participa-  tion des mouvements de libération à la communauté internationale, qui a désormais compris que  la lutte qu'ils mènent eat une lutte pour la liberté, le progrès et la justice sociale et pour la paix.
12,2 Ceux qui ont pu se rendre dans les zones Ubérées en Afrique par les mouvements de libéra-  tion ont constaté l'immense effort qu'ils fournissent pour développer l'éducation, pour sortir les  populations d'une misère séculaire causée par le colonialisme, et nul n'ignore que sans indépen-  dance nationale il n'y a pas d'éducation porsible, ni de progrès de la culture,
12.3 C'est pourquoi la délégation ds la République de Guinée apporte son appui total au rapport  qui nous a été prâsenté par le Comité juridique. Les mouvements de libération participent déjà à  d'autres institutions internationales comme la FAO ou l'OMS, et il ne serait que juste que ces mou-  vements prennent place au sein de cette assemblée, pour apporter une contribution dont nous avons  tous besoin.
12,4 En ce qui concerne le problème de la Palestine, nous constatons que le peuple palestinien se  voit depuis trente ans privé des droits élémentaires. L'occupation sioniste né permet pas aux peu-
15 ples arabes de Palestine de se donner l'éducation à laquelle ils aspirent à juste titre, le peuple pa-  lestinien est obligé d'errer sans éducation, sans culture, C'est pourquoi nous refusons, nous re-  poussons les déclarations qui sont faites dans cette enceinte de bannir toute politique. Qu'est-ce,  en effet, que l'éducation? Toute société a une éducation, et cette éducation est dictée Far une cer-  taine politique. Les dirigeants qui sont au pouvoir forment la société selon leurs conceptions ;  c'est déjà 1A un choix politique, et nous ne pouvons pas ne pas parler de politique dans cett». en-  ceinte. Traitant du rôle de l'Unesco, la Résolution 10.1 votée à la dix-septième seasir: de la  Conférence générale ne mentionnait-elle pas sa contribution à la promotion de la paix? C'est pour  cela que nous estimons que les mouvement de Mbération doivent participer à nos travaux, et que  nous formulons le voeu qu'à la dix-neuvième session leur nombre ait augmenté.
12.5 Nous appuyons donc fermement la proposition faite par le Comité juridique, que l'Unesco  invite les mouvements de libération africains et l'OLP à participer à nos travaux. Je vous remer-  cie, Madame la Présidente.
13, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Guinea and ! give the floor to the delegate of Israel,
14.1 Mr. BAR-YAACOV (fsraël)  Madam President, the draft resolution contained in document 18 C/117, Annex I, referring to  an invitation to the Palestine Liberation Organization, is in our opinion, unacceptable and should be  rejected on three basic grounds: on grounds of law, on grounds of policy, and on grounds of  morality.
14.2 The legal grounds are that the Constitution lays down the basis upon which observers may be  invited; this is tc be found fn Article IV. E, paragraphs 13 and 14, and Article XI, paragraph 4.  From these articles it is clear that there are three constitutional conditions for inviting observers  of non-governmental bodies to Unesco Conferences: (1) that the organization be international; (2)  that {t conducts activities within the competence of Unesco; and (3) that an agreement for consulta-  tion and co-operation has been concluded between the organization and Unesco,
14,3 Obviously the Rules of Procedure can only interpret what fs defined in the Constitution, That  is why Rule 6 of the Rules of Pracedure provides for the invitation to the General Conference only  of those categories already laid down in the Constitution; and Rule 6 cannot be changed or amended  unless it responds to a change in the Constitution, or to a specific mandate by the General Confer-  ence. This situation of a specific mandate of the General Conference is the case of the African  liberation movements referred to in document 18 C/20,
14.4 In regard to the African liberation movements recognized by OAU, there are specific requests  made in resolutions of the General Assembly of the United Nations and of the Economic and Social  Council, I refer to resolution A/3118 of thé twenty-eighth session of the General Assembly in 1973,  and to resolution 1804 adopted by the Economic and Social Council at {ts 55th session, which refer-  red to the African liberation movements and requested the Specialized Agencies to initiate contacts  and co-operation with them in consultation with the Organization of African Unity, and to ensure  that they are represented, in an appropriate capacity, when the agencies deal with matters pertain-  ing to them,
14.5 Basing itself on these United Nations resolutions, the geventeenth session of the General  Conference of Unesco adopted resolution 10,1 which contained a specific reference and an instruc-  tion referring to the African liberation movements, Operative paragraph 5 of that resolutfon states:  "Decides to associate with the Organization's activities, including those of the General Conference,  representatives of the African liberation movements recognized by the Organization of ‘African  Unity". And the resolution went on to request the Executive Board to decide on the means necessary  to this end,
14,6 Resolution 10.1 provided the authority for the Director-General to prepare for the Executive  Board a series of documents and proposals, At three separate Executive Board meetings these  proposals were the subject of discussion and decision, It is only after two years of preparatory  work that the resolution referring to the African liberation movements comes before you now for  consideration and decision.
14.7 I want now to compare that situation to that which affects the PLO, I would like to point out  that an attempt fe being made to push together, to amalgamate, to cover over with one curtain the  motion relating to the African liberation movements and that relating to PLO, That i8 an artificial  and a deceptive amalgamation, as I hope to prove.
14.8 In the case of the PLO there is no resolution of the United Nations General Assembly speci-  tically mentioning the PLO in relation to Specialized Agencies, I will refer later to the resolution  which was adopted two weeks ago, There is no mandate from the last General Conference, or any  General Conference, to the Executive Board to deal with this matter. There was no request or  even opportunity for the Director-General fo prepare documentation on the constitution and aims of  the party requesting to be admitted; there 18 no inquiry into the categories of activities of the PLO  which would correspond to the activities of Unesco in education, in science and in culture; there is  no report on the kind of reciprocal benefits which the parties might enjoy by some form of assocfa-
382   tion, On the contrary, there is, in the case o! the PLO, an unseemly haste and a by-passing of the  regulations and practices of Unesco. ,
14.9 I have already mentioned the decision taken recently at the United Nations to invite the PLO  to take part ag an observer in the discussion on the Palestine question during the current session of  the General Assembly, While my Government vigorously opposed that decision, it is relevant to  point out that there fs an important difference with the situation as it exists here,
14.10 The General Assembly deals with political problems, and a specific problem on the agenda  will be the Palestine question. The decision taken at New York was a one-time invitation to the  PLO to take part in a one-time dicussion on a defined and specific political item, In the motion  which we have before us in Annex I of document 18 C/117, we have a radically different position,  Here you are inviting us to give a permanent statua to a single organization completely unrelated  to any specific issue which is the business of this Organization. In the absence of official documen-  tation, may I tell you something about the PLO:
14,11 The PLO was founded and financed by the League of Arab States in 1964, It {a therefore no  surprise that the League of Arab States recognizes it, It is an umbrella organization bringing to-  gether separate and independent groups somewhat infamous for their acts of violence and terrorism,  The names of some of these groups are known to you: Fatah, for example, with its secret arm  Black September, One of the crimes for which they claimed responaibility was the murder of sporte-  men at the Olympic Games in Munich in 1972, Unesco's comments on that was expressed at the time  by the Director-General in a message of condolence to the Israeli Foreign Minister, in which he  sald:  "It js with horror that I learned of the tragedy which has taken place in Munich and has cost the  lives of 11 members of the Israeli Olympic team. That such an outrageous act of terrorism  should have been committed at the Olympic Games is particularly shocking ...".
14.12 Another group in the PLO is the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine headed by  George Habash. Thiua 18 the group which boasted of responsibility for the massacre of innocent  men, women and children at the airports of Rome, Athens, Lod, Zurich and Munich, A breakaway  group calling itself PFLP - General Command - claimed responsibility for shooting at and killing  children going to school in their school-bus, Another group, calling itself the Popular Democratic  Front, was responsible for holding over 100 children hostages in a school at Maalot and killing and  wounding over 70 of them,
14,13 There are several other groups, all with the same aim - to perpetrate atrocious acts of ter-  rorism - whose victims have been innocent men, women and children indiscriminately, cruelly,  senselessly killed and injured. This ie the moral dimension by which to measure the proposal made  now to bring these groups into Unesco,
14.14 In conclusion, Madam President, may I say a few words about the political aspect. The PLO  also has a kind of constitution, It is called the covenant of the PLO, Here we have one or two brief  examples of the aims and objects of the groups defined, Article 19 declares: "The partition of  Palestine, in 1947, and the establishment of Israel are null and void" (no more, no less), Article
20 states: "The claim of a historical or spiritual tie between Jews and Palestine does not tally with  historical reality" (all of Jewish history for 2,000 years is done away with in one sentence), Arti-  cle 21 gaya: "The Palestinian Arab people rejects every solution thaf is à substitute for a complete  liberation of Palestine and rejects all plane that aim at the settlement of the Palestinian issue",
14.15 Madam President, I would like to ask, what have these afms got to do with the objects and  purposes of Unesco? Is this education? Is this science? Is this culture? What kind 6f mutual  sharing of experience and collaboration in common interests can there be between Unesco and these  aims? These aims are quite different, and can only be defined as "politicide" - a word coined to  fit this particular situation, which means the destruction of another political entity, the State of  lerael, a sovereign Member of this Organization - to be followed perhaps by genocide - the destruc-  tion of the Jewish community living in that State of Israel.
14.16 Let there be no misunderstanding, All this does not mean that thére 18 not a Palestinian  people and a Palestinian entity, But has anybody ever asked these people whom they would like to  represent them? Does Unesco accept that the Kalatchnikov and the hand-grenade are adequate  substitutes for the ballot box? - :
14.17 After last year's fighting, the fourth round of fighting In 25 years, there was a cease-fire  and the beginning ôf negotiations for a just and lasting peace at what has become known as the  Geneva Conference, The PLO is trying to push ite way, I might say even, to blast {ts way into  these taike in order to undermine them - not in order to achieve a gettlement, for it rejects any  settlement which would confirm the existence and permanency of Israel,
14.18 We are faced with a highly controversial, a highly complex, a highly dangerous political  problem and we are being aeked to take a partisan, one-sided stand; perhaps not even within our  competence, For all these reasons, legal, moral, political, we urge you to withhold support from  this motion referring to the PLO, We for our part will have nothing to do with it and are totally  opposed to an Invitation to the PLO to participate in any capacity. We shall request a roll-call vote  at the close of the discussion, Thank you, Madar: President.
15 15, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Israel and I give the floor to the delegate of Pakistan,
16,1 Mr. AJMAL (Pakistan):  Madam President, we in Pakistan, both the Government and the people, strongly support and  endorse the admission of the Palestine Liberation Organization and the African liberation move-  ments to Unesco,
16.2 We insist on their participation In this august body because we recognize the right of the  Palestine people to aelf-determination in all aspects of life, be it education, science, culture or  sheer existeiice. At the Islamic Conference at Lahore, in February this year, the head of the  Palestine Liberation Organization was accorded the same protocol, the same honourable treatment,  the same ceremonial as any othr head of State invited to that Conference. In our struggle for de-  colonization of the colonized pecple everywhere, we seek that these bodies which represent the  people who have been colonized, oppressed for a very long time, should be represented in this au-  gust assembly. We feel that once they are here despite the legal, the moral, the constitutional  objections that have been raised, there will be an opportunity for a dialogue between these people  and the members of this assembly, Terrorism and violence are regrettable, and physical and  spiritual maiming of children is deplorable; even when it is committed by a so-called State crea-  ted by imperialist designs. With these words the Pakistan Government and we the delegates from  Pakistan - and I think the Pakistan people are with us - reiterate that we very strongly endorse the  admission of the Palestine Liberation Organization and the African liberation movements to this  assembly. Thank you very much,
17. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Pakistan and I give the floor to the delegate of Iran,
18. Mr. A.H, SAMII (Iran):  Madam President, the participation of the Palestine Liberation Organization in international  meetings has consistently been supported by the Imperial Government of Iran. In accordance with  this policy, the Imperial Government of Iran has sponsored the inclusion of the question of the  Palestine Liberation Organization as a separate item in the agenda of the current session of the  United Nations General Assembly. We therefore strongly support the suggestion of the Legal Com-  mittee that the African liberation movements as well as the Palestine Liberation Organization  should be invited to participate in this session of the General Conference of Unesco. Thank you  very much,
19. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Iran and I give the floor to the delegate of Jordan,
(0231) 6b Fb aed! — Fa)  TY PCN | des  go gli  tiger Goon App Jy lionel oy LS sate bucliht matt bite, diet hy Jhb Gel gs a  ER FIN  RTT CPS à tag pub dde JE Bag cap | JY ET TT PR IRF JUN. PES WIL SR [BUC Ee  Lo lde pind dahadid) pyeadl dabie Jigs ull gays (Ghd asad)  JUNOT TOOL TART LION PSX WS [PURPA | 700 BRT SUL ETE TERR TS WN | Dés pale gl CON  PUR TIX. WF) Aa le base 9) AOC OR PUTE ba) te YR PY JOC | PEST PROVE WOR SH  Las y ikea ay al gl Yann oe debut Clos L Gully JY Ly oS oul att gun ¥
(20.1) Mr. NAJATI BUKHARI (Haghemite Kingdom of Jordan) (Translation from the Arabic):  Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to affirm Jordan's recognition of the PLO. The League  of Arab States has also recognized this Organization. The PLO is a full member of the League of Arab  States and the United Natfons has recently agreed to invite this Orgénization to attend its sessions,
(20.2) I therefore wish, on behalf of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, to join those who have spoken in  favour of inviting the PLO to attend the eighteenth session of the General Conference of Unesco and future  sessions, as an observer, I wish also to reiterate that Jordan has always called for Israel's withdrawal  from all occupied Arab territories, We strongly insist on the restoration of the rights of the Palestinfan  people, and will exert every effort for the establishment of a just and honourable peace in the reglon.  Jordan will work wholeheartedly for co-ordinating {is endeavours with all constructive and peaceful efforts  with a view to attalning these gosls,
(20.3) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Jordan has an essential rôle to play in the Middle East 15  problem, and firmly believes that the first and foremost objective 18 peace based on justice, liberation of  occupied Arab territories and the safeguarding of the full rights of the Palestinian people.
(20.4) The delegation of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan is unreservedly in favour of extending an invita-  tion to the representatives of African liberation organizations as well as to tho“e of the PLO to participate  in the elghteen session of the General Conference. Thank you, Madam President,
21, The PRESIDENT: .  I thank the delegate of Jordan and I give the floor to the delegate of Albania,
22,1 M. LUCI (Albanie), -  Madame la Présidente, la délégation albanaise s'associé avec une satisfaction particulière  aux propositions tendant à faire apporter au Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale des  modifications qui permettraient d'associer aux activités de l'Unesco les mouvements de libération  d'Afrique reconnus pour l'OUA et l'Organisation pour la libération de la Palestine.
22,2 La République populaire d'Albanie a toujours soutenu, et soutient encore résolument le com-  bat hérofque que mènent, pour leur liberté et leur indépendance, les peuples opprimés, Nous for-  mons des voeux ardents pour que la lutte de ces peuples contre le joug féroce du colonialisme, de  l'impérialisme et du sionigme soit le plus tôt posable couronnée d'un plein succès. Je vous re-  mercie, Madame la Présidente,
23. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Albania and I give the floor to the delegate of Togo,
24.1 M, AGBLEMAGNON (Togo). -  Madame la Présidente, le Groupe africain pense que donner la parole aux mouvements de libé-  ration, c'est les inviter au dialogue, Je sais par expérience que, dans certaines enceintes, par  exemple à l'Assemblée des Nations Unies à New York, les diplomates se combattent au lieu de re-  chercher une entente. A l'Unesco, fort heureusement, c'est d'éducation, de science et de culture  que l'on parle, Nous avons eu tout récemment au Conseil exécutif la chance de pouvoir écouter  pendant quelques instants des personnalités qui, bien que venant peut-être tout droit du front, ont  demandé la parole pour nous exposer, non pas leurs difficultés en matière d'armements, de stra-  tégie ou de tactiquo, mais les aspirations à l'éducation et à la culture qui se faisaient sentir parmi  les leurs,
24.2 Mon pays estime - toute l'Afrique est, je pense, de cet avis - que cette soif d' éducation,  cette soif de culture, doivent ttre assouvies et que c'est à l'Unesco que peuvent le mieux s'exprimer  les aspirations en question. Nous pensons également que l'Unesco a un devoir d'assistance envers  les groupes qui, s'ils ne se trouvent pas encore constitués en Etats souverains, n'en ont pas moins  le droit de profiter des bienfaits de l'éducation et de la science. Ces groupes d'hommes, de  femmes et d'enfants, quelle que soit, là où ils vivent, la conjoncture politique, ont, dis-je, pleine-  ment le droit de prétendre A tout ce que peuvent leur apporter l'éducation, la science et la culture.
24.3 Je suis donc en faveur de la régolution proposée à l'annexe I, en vertu de laquelle les mouve-  ments de libération africains seraient invités à participer aux réunions de l'Unesco.
24,4 C'est dans le même esprit que nous sovhaitons que tout mouvement de libération - et notam-  ment l'Organisation pour la libération de la Palestine - soit admis à participer à la Conférence  générale de l'Unesco, Merci, Madame la Présidente.
25. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Togo and I give the floor to the delegate of Egypt.  (hepa! n heupent ) JS! op Alma pS! dell — ED)  TY UWL JE ETON  J bof Let BE, Hepat pb Jag saeBil sda II a,b oF 3-25 € Lysine 7e dy oF iJ  ON age eme ds TS STL PUI WHT VI TPR TL ay ce 5 5 1 [or CTF II RETIRE Las
0334 988 We Ro) I aad oud iggy à Lpts 3 (30 eal = Lid lie Seated LAS afin  spa Ang Pe FYI IPUNIRS JE W311 JF) ge Vols af Je conne Aa 151 QUE  NEI THY A (NP lle WE INT WITTE THT 8 RX] YOSRTAS AY PEEL VS AE EE  UO WA TIRE VSS | pli Jet J PUPRPR CET RAY 9e SVPCLIC 4 IE OPE JEEP  ei Sa 6 Ura Papas Mia Sly capapte sas BV GS cha 8) Lil hab gn dede malt  NYA ILE ob Badal iy ye tee yb Lows 51 JY VRIES) + Sais dl pau de Als Lagan (0g  od Sisal ples (gris 8 GSy $i Bro on lin al has job Beds Lu cp vas 1 €  RPC JU PPURSURT SUF SW [RETINA JURE I JPA | PP PX TL FS ol bus bel  gb es apie a) Ly Utd] lipdey ot i pote tly Ua 130 dn og spel Bm use nie  OP YT VO PE WI N'Y JUTE WOH 305 058 TYE SITE VOT WWE [FO PE PITS  US da 55 + Lee past UN [8 FORA RETR J 1S yes dé he RTE PRCERTIE FRIIS COP VIEL ape
385   JET) PUFCOREY POOL FS J) PROC VII RL TPAC) PRE WC) JOP WF CRS FN PRE STU PLUN TR  $ op Bald oe Von Las bo 157 olan FRYE IRR pole Lud aha dt  LL Le Jet asp sal a POTPIVSRIRE IR DPI Lait [FX JOU POT PX OF PRT re ol ee LUN D tr  pms lass ak gazed 5 5h capes Ue ol SH ha QUSL etd His 035 AU  Ad | VU) dur te OU POSE FRING J i WIR Jia obi Lek 5 vis l cogs ang Syme au obi Lage  pd on Sein) um 3,1 Up Les 5 dé dei de 38 Sn oh (pall oily pay por 43 cleo 9D! Ld  BRITS ARPES LS JS VOR FTUOR MGUE J WO PRUE PURE [PAY  slt Jad cao LS inl Gs OS AIN Vi) aad C5 0 o® deh) eat au 51 — VUE  EN IS AU stapes Jl ag SIV she 51 Lis ol Ae pes pling ol Amy eau ol Ay py  mp pasndly Ip-pedd ep Xs ako, sp PR EVE «XL Cab à Lin Ge + 70 ladl LJ pls Jas peus!  FI IL] GI YP UN Pert] UE HTN ETA PE) [PIS Ole obs lit hu Jo at Oueleaadly  NUNC ICRI} UPR RPL
(26.1) Dr. SHAMS EL-DIN EL-WAKIL (Arab Republic of Egypt) (Translation from the Arabic):  Madam President, on its way to the Conference hall this afternoon, the Egyptian delegation had no in-  tention to take the floor, and was determined to remain silent tiil the adoption of the report submitted by  the Legal Committee. In fact, the Egyptian delegation fs bent on aparing the General Conference futile  political discussions, since its precious time should be saved for the accomplishment of the tasks assigned  to it, However, after listening to certain statements , I had no alternative but to ask for the floor to dissi-  pate certain doubts or certain illusions,
(26,2) I wish to deal first with the legal aspect, The Legal Committee has unanimously presented specific  proposals, on the basis of a previous proposal made by the Executive Board, concerning the admission of  both African liberation movements and the PLO. 1 have been greatly surprised when I noticed that a con-  stitutional argument has been raised. Constitutional arguments are attractive by nature, especially as all  of us are greatly attached to the Constitution of Unesco. My surprise was even greater when a constitution-  al argument waa raised on the basis of paragraphs 13 and 14 of Article 4, which deal with international  non-governmental organizations, These two paragraphs have nothing to do with liberation movements. And  how could the authore of the Constitution of Unesco {imagine that after such a long and destructive war we  shall be in need of liberation once more? It was inconcelvable that the Constitution of Unesco should take  account of liberation movements, The Egyptian delegation would categorically reject any attempt to use  the Constitution as a pretext, Did the World Health Organfzalion violate {ts constitution when it decided to  invite the PLO? Of course not. The constitutional argument is attractive nevertheless, That is why I  sought to dissipate its illusion, Furthermore, does the General Conference of Unesco need a mandate?  You are here the highest authority and the guarantors of the Conatitution; you are the Organization itself.  Yau are in a position to decide, in this very hall, whatever you may find appropriate.
(26.3) As for the moral aspect, I would have preferred not to deal with {t since it would take much of your  precious time which ! am careful not waste. However, I hava to remind you that the Beirut International  Airport was attacked, and Befrut's buildings and houses were the target of aggression; the children of Bahr-  al-Bakar achool, in the heart of the Egyptian countryside, were massacred in their claserooms; an afir-  liner was treacherously downed with all its passengers over Egyptian territory. There fe also the Dir-  Yassin massacre in which children and babies were killed.
(26.4) The PLO is the voice of a people; it defends political rights. Yet it 13 also the voice of a people  that wants to acquire learning and culture and is also ready to offer its learning and culture. It ie no longer  valid in our contemporary world to repeat the old and cheap allegation concerning the destruction of the  Jewish people. We here believe in peace, love peace, advocate peace for Jews, Christians and Muslims  alike, Therefore, Madam President, I call on the General Conference to endorse the report of the Legal  Committee by acclamation, Thank you, Madam President.
27, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Egypt and I give the floor to the delegate of Sudan.
(01 99mdl) pebadl as at gl 1 fA)  WOR ve  SFR PY PRO STU APE WFC) EYP an 5 5 RE RSA FTI gate 6 I AR ENR FSR |  Lad Vos Yom 1300 BI Ball a0 3 Ly 0 J po ude! Lin Bilge JU padyadl on 1503 1 (Seb pal,
4 dal 6 UO JGR YOO NTT PRCT PVA TE SHPO PRT SPS | EVE CUR TOSS DR NE JC | PURO  his 3 dos gyal of led! J Buy 00e 0e us J Says oehali cat ols Ali bals dist Gyo Sok  deseh…iSl pnt élite gs uty Wb Apparel délai ge Yl (SLA SI Lob Yin by gubl Ÿ  Ah 5 Luis VO | FOS UN RO JET RST  Ome FU VV IE peal) ABUS ads ep Bal L301 pate (fo Siutgeld pall bu l 33 Le oF — YAY  ain GlaaY pw oa Wl Le Gb p Lal uogadlakile oly o Jp NU SAT FLAT JAI  WIE BUN 1 mall ue ed) Liz edb GTA à Sep Bad Lal pds à (qunse WIE 3 Ud ty sata!  mail] 3g tebe Con tly Gao IN pig pal Todt dog fe pis Se Veda gant  contd Vid « WB 1 08 boulet holt Sled 3 oS Bt ul 8 Ja 0e F5 By IN Ste  Ct VA 1 OT ay Unt lin Vi feo Ali 1 gh qu Le cust 8 ds 43,5 po 0  Stolz | ded had Kall da bisadl a dn ds ob oipbdlye arly VV p0dt OWT Vy Lada Glad oda 02 ol
3 WR SEIN PLOY J 15, cpl) pais f CNE CR NT ERA on 30 Baad op CALE SEC RIRE  tabi Dad 099 Jo der oly Blas 2p B LLL lin 5 le dan Vay Cyan Les ga gt  dll sde Sy  Le Ugly VHP | SONS WIPUOPTUP te pales PEEICIPS | JACI SOP SRC | IRE ROAR: JOT IRE AN  Jb LSet NOR I a Va a Lis  ERR) PRUNE PICT | THR Je { Jens Yakut sd 5e JB let also pan Ji LY  p ebay WON 6 de pes M VARI RST TRAE ICTR W IH 0 ds pags | € FY Las I Gp, SRW SS  $ yet DUI  V0 CV WL TS TOS NVR opte ep5 ll Sa Se prb ll FY VIVE [OL 1 POS PPR JES CR 11]  SUPP [|W -CYUIFREY | FE | FUN | JES Je if Jens Veil le Ms JO PUSPYOR SOVIET pas Le  SUVS JT PEIN TRONS IR PL TCU TART WA PRIE WS LIL WER TRE 3 JPY PEARS | LÀ —_ vaux  dal gas Js om Lek eu, By etal Coat 959 ordiali pepe Ile vas LS lus why YE  pla f Late Lue po ash Ah oil LAN La Wy Ah oll LUS Lub coy eof (Lal Cys  mm 933 Ve Yims Lis Bip dadly Ludblagaiall Cant] psy L137 tall pa SU Agage al inant  FITTS IRCIRTCIUPR 1 JUPEITPCINT TU TIPR VOU DEVON I £ FOV] IFJEU IR Pr AU IPERS PU 1 |  igs baad) 5 all ams Lips pis Ÿ SLA  Ele ob hall Spool ol L LINERS FPR TY CN CT Paule us) lus (glam ing oop  Gon) Fed 158 108 CT VA o SS p JI, LUN
(28.1) Mr, AHMED ABDEL AZIM (Sudan) (Translation from the Arabic):  Madam President, the issue contained {n draft reeolution 18 C/11", which has been submitted to us by  the Chairman of the Legal Committee, i8 not new to you, The Conference has already approved certain as-  pects of this fssue and the Legal Committee fe only acting on the basis of recommendations previously  adopted by the Conference. Neither 1s the part concerning an invitation to the PLO new to you, The United  Nationa itself has adopted several resolutions on the people of Palestine on their right to velf-determinatiôn  and their right to equality, of which I need not remind you. The United Nations General Assembly decided  recently to invite the PLO to participate in {ts meetings during the discussion on the Palestinian issue,
(28,2) If the General Conference of Unesco adopts the draft resolution submitted to it, this would ensure  that the PLO benefit from the work plan contained in Chapter I. In fact, the adoption of this resolution by  the General Conference would constitute a victory for the alms of this Organization and a victory for its  Constitution. Besides, this would guarantee the Organization the universality which has been lacking to it  for some time. We are of the opinfon that a sound solution to the Middle East historical conflict will not be  attained except through a recognition of the people of Palestine, of their right to existence and self-deter-  mination and their right to a place In the international arena both politically and culturally, For not less  than thirty years, this people has been denied its human, political end social rights, It 1e high time that  this people recover ita usurped rights, Iam confident that you will approve of inviting this organization  engaged In the siruggle for justice to participate in the deliberations of your General Conference, and to  benefit from Unesco's programmes, Your approval would at the same time be a rebuff to false allegations  made here by the representative of a certain small State, who claimed that there were legal, political and  moral grounds that wouid bar the PLO from Uneaco, My colleague the Egyptian delegate has adequately  dealt with the legal aspects of this question and I need not repeat what he has already said, The Israeli  representative's allegation that Unesco's fields of competence are of no interest to the PLO, {8s quite ttrange  indecd, Haa Unesco no interest in human rights? Has it no interest in education in occupied territories?  Or has it no interest at all in the education of refugeea? The Palesilnians have been denied their human  rights: their territory {8 occupied by an oppressive enemy and they have heen living fn camps for more  than thirty years. Yet this does not prevent Israel's representative from claiming that Unesco's fields of  competence have nothing in common with the PLO.
(28,3! As for the accusations he abundantly levelled against the PLO on moral grounds, we have had enough  of them. They have become like a record to be played whenever the subject of Palestine and the Palestinian  people is brought up, All the peoples of the world and international organizations have refuted such accuss-  tions, The international organizations have espoused the cause, when the United Nations General Assembly  adopted a resolution that authorizes peoples whose terr!tories are usurped, and whose rights and freedoms  are dealed, to take whatever measures they deem necessary to recover these rights and freedoms. The  arguments used by tie Israeli representative are no longer effective in changing concepts, or tn hindering  the peoples of the world from grasping the reallly of political situations. Madam President, ladies and  gentlemen, 1 conclude my statement by calling on you to adopl the draft resolution submitted to you by  acclametion. Thank you, Thank you, Madam President,
29, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Sudan and I give the floor to the delegate of the People's Democratic  Republic of Yemen,  (den Ma bling 0 ad aug pann ) Sa en, ll KIT | RUS JPY  FRIUYS JR YELUMI PF} WRC |} gp  AE PRY EVOL JU Ss J JORY| IPR POF FE TCV JO | WON OY | sil WOR FIERY  otebadifi ont gle wd ALL Gow ode ia kdb Jp AL Jot! ON onl J  Cua Lasky yb var Bly od Or Gree Lignes € dear dy MOET June dd dite Ÿ gob pdb 05 gla iY  yo Udliggnpall c USE Jd op ABS Hla Jit ay by  SAM  bV ahs Yim) Seigald yo on BI) jugall Vds Rete ppd Raita 36, Le 1 — 7 0  ab id Wh aageaadl SLAY pesait
15 SI, Lely all 5 para ap ell J ati ntl) panei! God) ey Lika 0 BY  dubbing Wael ayant Uriel Lh stp sabia Jet os) pres oF dn ces eed 13,091  RIN 57h00 VS FI KVR TC SF SUES TE WIN HRP I3 W SRNR PEN seb Lager S02 ly deal  onsinadl Sight Lead 1522
(30.1). Mr, ABDEL RAHMAN SHAKER (People's Democratic Republic of Yemen) (Translation from the  “ Arabie):  Madam President, distinguished colleagues, It ts only natural that the PLO be invited to participate in  this session, and that 1s why euch a matter should not be a controversial lssue, All those who are for peace  and justice in this world will not object to this invitation. The Palestinian people has suffered a great deal  as a result of an unprecedented injustice, the consequences of which will remain for a long time to come,  All those who are not fully aware of the plight of the Palestinian people will wake up to realize all the atro-  cities that have been inflicted on this people by the treacherous Zioniat authorities,
(30.2) The PLO's participation in the eighteenth session of the Ceneral Conference of Unesco fs only a first  step In the right direction and it fa In the interest of the international community ae a whole, Accordingly,  znd on the basis of the Pair. tinlan people's natural right to affirm {ts oxistence, to express its aspirations  and to join the international community; and in order to help Unesco acquire its full universal character,  the delegation of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen appeals to you all to support an invitation to  the PLO delegation to participate in the deliberations of this Conference. Thank you, Madam President.  Thank you, distinguished delegates.
31, The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen and I give the floor to the  delegate of Cuba.
(32.) Mr. LE RIVEREND (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President: May ! say, briefly, on behalf of the delegation of Cuba, that there 13 no reason whatso-  ever to exclude from our Organization the genuine representatives of a people such as that of Palestine,  That people has been dispossessed and discriminated against, There {a talk of violence; but it is undeniable  that the Palestinian people suffered violence long before it, like the peoples in géneral, was capable of using  violence against anyone, It has suffered violence against {ts culture and against it3 life. We must asso-  clate with this movement which is now defending education - its own education; science - its own sélence;  culture - its own culture; and we must hear what it has to say; because it fé defending what Unesco consi-  ders fo be its greatest glory, Cuba knows something ubout colonialism, neo-colonfalism and raclalism,  It therefore unconditionally supports the admfesion of the Palestine Liberation Organization as the repre-  sentative of the Palestinian people in this assembly, Thank you very much.
33, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Cuba and I give the floor to the delegate of the German Democratic  Republic.
34, Mr. HEINZE (German Democratic Republic):  , Madam President, on behalf of the delegation of the German Democratic Republic, I would like  to congratulate the Legal Committee on the elaboration of the draft resolutions in document 18 c/117  which is before us, The German Democratic Republic shares the view that the withdrawal of Israeli  troops from all the occupled Arab territories fe an essential condition for a permanent peace fn the  Near and Middle East. The German Democratic Republic always supports the just cause of the Arab  peoples. That is why we snpport the national right of the people of Palestine. The Géneral Confer-  ence of Unesco with its humanitarian aims should, in accordance with United Nations decisions,  accept these resolutions.
35, The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegation of the German Democratic Republic and I give the floor to the delegate of  Lebanon. -  (bad) ond je gel den pale SW rl — v1)  RITA PEUNORT] JWT
0a Jul JIS Sl dial oped dakiia 2900 gree J idaledl sda (J oN Lies  PIR U0 APY PY WRT TIE TYTN JCPPR IF ICT gel | I ITV US pe 05 Jt WHIP PICU 9 08  en plan V1 ais oles 302,50 vad Mile bom Vi ait Ls cutdlodl UE Je Capa Sly JU af igptsalt 10a  los lie Ja JE wb gadye s Sisal! J eb US rpsdyalt ol iioley (allel adil oda 256 oo I  éhungt 13 hi Lead IY PURSUIT ur VE Va COS WEA |} WY DR PRR SPR Lt Sat d'âge bad
388    tustendl Lin oe dus Je ach 0 oY oo LS LI 5 Brute Eyhy cssiaad) Lis pds opeKaadt Valle uy  ABS 6 Ad ytane (WV aad, Lily  LL à BIS fps JUV W Thy TERIOR oy BIJ Fadl $5 du — ur  Leds € PWC JEU E YW IE WNT BAR I Lis eus SECT] BO AON | DS SURRY 5 TPT OW | 6 PREY 11  Pte pall ead Ul Bang Fans VS. nisl uss BIN EAST Ly sabia] gg BIL, Lica)  legs Byam ca 8 Ly «Sap dl Gt Lael Ld Sy MU Lab MSA NS Claus I Ly Gobi Jb  Sela SE (ph 170009 We pe SI (hey SO WS 0 mall eB ed | patil pols ve bless syd028 IL IR |  Lpants lea ds Bn ay € Ja V gay Ayo gas pal 350 | Jia da ae Ji Bis  Laster dy LS poules de Viol gs f Jen dé fps 0B doll Lhe I 8) al (8 dey  ul  oh ppt lend Je Li pales las Li an hg is dela AI Lidl pape pal d  JESSEN] YF VP PEPIN WAY 11 AS 1 RANT aug 4 JAN 5 AI OR 1S TIT LUN Ve pis fs BU  Y bls cdpial 5 ap Ban LIU abl Via 5 Sad one 0 Tsar plant ety] Lola 1 15 ap dial  VTL FUNTION A 50 Goom 51 ITS  Labuelabo 13k abo ¥ 61 aye labo a bdt a Sat Mt bul ate Lil, Life é lib As — yur  (BNL 8 oles co LIN Lis iis ae ds 5200 o ally Lecgad) Lis lof | GAS tant  postal} Lia Jlel 338, Leal) mail Anis 3953 Ld Lae ay bas) SI Via bed) FIG 8 Ugh  FOR TERN XO J WUC FS Val né ph | RO FRR ) FN JOY | I CYC WUC 55 As WOU SU 11 | PRCT [FO  ola oo Wiby Les gel UC Lathes lh als (BIL Gb pint GLa Kd iy lon ls Bega!
5 RIP ATLL WA PORT PCR (POT WI APPR) PRK} JEAPR | bat à cs| lil PN EF TA
0607634 Ji VEN gy dey GBI os va  +—"bu j Lagon Apt dti Lai 6 day . Wo eis Syria pra IIS Jy 6 026 hate (Bat SO —- vt  Ina |S) JURY LI le Ste NN tie ot TIC UI TICE SNES PRTC I  ETON] BFE A PRTC pisse 9 ap las VU ang NPA REI JOC PRS [ISU JPEN J TE WRN  «corrals Ge SE 3, 0)  Wada $5 ob Globe les) | ane Bll (ole SI 0 Gh adie ba (Kal $5 ye  rio Bg a Bdeugh as SE plus oo baged Jun p30 Eipees baba (@oled ddl Lin ji  Lu GS) tut 57501 JUL PUTIN | RURCIN [Ey DICH | es JPL! ps + Le SIN 5 Joos LS ep Dy  aap LLY angie ean Shab clu Supe Uys (2b II dau V1 5,200 € Lg VU pall MSA  CLS > ppar bebiys CLAY Lin Ko eva} sal of onli pe > Os de PRLS [RATS ol a!  Ven G60 Bag V1 5,80 Ga ul ET GLS Blt Va Tans 91 gt Lin É pd I Ball  Jthulidyo cab ol lle pl waeb oS Lay PES LL WWI RU) 3 Uy tla 3.5ys plually orally Sy>pdl 4  SSN daa dy Upiky pale wore ola i30ldl Lb SST Un + dat (bad euby eg lyoadly (list SE  Al gag hate JE WIS [ARS £1 INTL capte Une Bt 2 [TTPO SJ) RV PRL ATH SFSDRTVS  ed TB Li AY Gad 6 gp is € lB JULY [Jb os al ayo sg AS pe By py pan  Goll Vale gladicobadi ga Via JES  I phpbatisE jy peall Rat Usps Ly Godt (planar on Jl 8 pies GV babists Said oF — FUN  J NTI à de Lan [FP PLL WC FO) LU 5505 6309 W RETR ge RS JOP | Jey JPN  pa
(36.1} Dr, HALIM SAfD ABU-IZZEDDIN (Lebanon) (Translation from the Arabic);  Madam Presfdent, ladies and gentlemen, I would have preferred not to apeak fn this meeting on the  subject of {nvitiug the PLO to participate in this and the following sessions of the General Conference as an  observer, This matter has been already discussed fn the Executive Board and in the Legal Committee, In  both instanczs, voting in favour of it was almost unanimous, Therefore, there was no reason for me to  take the floor after such a unanimous support for this just cause, particularly as this subject has been dis-  cussed fr Unesco from a sclentiffé, cultural and moral angle - not from a politital point of view - so as to  maintain the moral, scientific and cultural standard of this highly esteemed Organization. Now, Midam  President, that one of the speakers has attempted to lower this standard, we have to reply, not in à recrim-  fnatory and vindictive spirit, but fn order to urge that speaker to rige to the standard of our Organization,  {36.2) The speaker dealt with the legal aspect of the Invitation to the PLO, That legal Aspect, distinguished  colleagues, was discussed by the Executive Board and the Legal Committee on which all of you are repre-  sented, and which includes the Organization's Legal Adviser as well as the legal experte of different delega-  tions.” What was the outcome of that discussion? We found that the Rules of Procedure refer to two specific  categories: International organizations and States not members of Unesco, it 1s quite evident that liberation  movements do not belong to elther category. As was atited by hiy colleague, the delegate of Egypt, libera-  tion movements have emerged in the wake of World War II. They represent the people's growing endeavour  to achleve freedom and independence, and they are worthy of being encouraged and supported. Many of us,  distinguished colleagues, were active members of certain liberation movements in recent years, but Dow  sit here fn this assembly. The sponsors of the draft resolution submitted ft to the Executive Board, The  outcome was a well-founded decision embracing all aspects of this question, including ite legal aspect, This  decision was submitted lo the General Conference which, In turn, referred it to the Legal Committee. This  Commitiee studied this question extensively and adépted à unanimous or quasl-unanimous resolution which  has been submitted to you at this Conference, Thus, the légal aspects have been adequately dealt with ‘and
1 find no real reason for discussing them once more.
15 (36,3) There is another aspect referied to by the [sraelf delegate, namely, the moral aspect, as he called  it. In fact, the Conference and {ta commissions need not be reminded of this aspect, It was indeed this  moral aspect that motivated us in the first place in calling for an invitation to the PLO to participate {n the  deliberations of this Conferé.ice, The PLO, Madam President, represents Palestinian graduales from  universities and higher institutions in Arab countries, Europe and America, It represents this Palestinian  youth that rose against oppression and aggression, the young people whé have been forced to leave their  homeland and live fn camps, and who are atlll waiting to return to their country in conformity with United  Nations resolutions, especially the resolution adopted on 29 November 1947,
(36.4) The speaker referred to El-Fatah, the Popular Front and other organizations, These various group-  ings which belong to the PLO represent the élite of Palestinian natlonalista whom many of you know quite  well - that youth which the United Natfons General Assembly had decided almost unanimously on 14 October
1974 to invite to participate in the deliberations of its 29th session.
(36.5) The speaker cited some examples of violence and referred in particular to the incidents which oc-  curred at Maalot and Munich, I would have expected him not to mention such things before the Conference,  The incidents at Maalot and Munich could both have ended safely, as with many similar incidents, but for  the misleading and treacherous tactics.used in both'of them, [I wonder, Madam President, who brought  violence to the Middle East, and how it was brought to that part of the world, For centuries the Middle  East was a region of prosperity and tranquility, UH those who claim to be peace-loving came to it bringing  confusion fn thelr wake. They committed unprecedented acts of violence in that area, ! wish you could go  through books of history and see how Jews, Christians and Muslims lived th harmony, friendship and peace  till the emergence of the State of Israel, a State which fs founded on oppression, aggression and violence.  Need I, ladies and gentlemen, remind you of what happened at Dir-Yassin, at Tiberfas and at Kibya? Need  I recall repeated aggressions against southern Lebanon or raids on Beirut airport? Should I remind you of  the raid on Bahr-El-Bxkar school in the Arab Republic of Egypt In which children were massacred? Vio-  lence perpetrated by governments le different from violence used by a people trying to put an end to the  injustices it has suffered, This Is the moral aspect of the question, Jadies and gentlemen,
(36.6) Unesco; which we hold In high esteem, will be the first to'respond to the call of right, By inviting  the PLO and African liberation movements to attend its General Conference sessions, Unesco would res-  pond positively to this call, and would implement the baslc principles for the sake of which it was established  {n the first place. Thank you.
37. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of Lebanon and now I give the floor to the delegate of Japan,
38.1 M, HAGUIWARA (Japon). -  Madame la Présidente, je serai aussi bref que possible, La délégation du Japon votera en  faveur des résolutions contenues dans le Rapport du Comité juridique (document 18 C/117) relatif  à l'admission d'observateurs des mouvements de libération africains et de l'Organisation pour la  libération de la Palestine.
38,2 Pour ce qui est de cette dernière, je voudrais exposer très clairement la position de mon  gouvernement. Eprouvant une profonde sympathie pour le peuple de Palestine en grande souffrance,  il estime que, si l'Unesco peut faire quoi que ce soit pour ce peuple dans les domaines de sa com-  pétence - éducation, science, culture et information -, elle a le devoir de le faire. Mais pour cela  il lui faut consulter lé peuple palestinien et prendre contact avec l'Organisation pour la libération  de la Palestine, C'est dans cet esprit que la délégation japonaise votera pour les résolutions en  question.
38.3 Je tiens néanmoins à préciser que ce vote n'impliquera aucune prise de position de mon gov-  vernement sur toute question politique telle que la reconnaissance de l'Organisation pour la libéra-  tion de la Palestine, question que nous considérons en dehors de la compétence de notre Organisa-  tion. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
39. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Japan and I give the floor to the delegate of Uganda.
40.1 Mr. KILI (Uganda):  Madam President, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, Uganda's delegation supports the report  submitted by the Legal Committee to the effect that the Palestine Liberation Organization's repre-  sentatives should Le invited to participate in the deliberations of the eighteenth session of the Gen-  eral Conference of Unesco as observers, Madam President, this In itself goes to affirm the will of  Palestinians over the suppression of their will by use of arms,
40.2 Madam President, it will be recalled that the United Nations was formed after the Second  World War to establish the rights and carry out the will of the people after the former League of  Nations had failed to fulfil these primary obligations. Unesco, Madam President, as a part of the  United Nations, has a duty to recognize these rights. The question that the Rules of Procedure  and the Constitution have not been followed does not arise, because the Rules of Procedure and the  Conatitution ure made by men for the benefit of men, Madam President, what we call education,  ‘sèience and culture cannot exist in the absence of men, The PLO and African Hiberation organiza-  tions exist to fight for the rights of people, for the existence of men, and upon the existence of men  and people depends what we call here education, scfence and culture, Therefore, Unesco has the  right to invite the representatives of the Palestine Liberation Organization to participate in this  Conference as observers, Thank you Madam President. ’
41, The PRESIDENT;  I thank the delegate of Uganda and I call upon the delegate of Yugoslavia.
42, Mr. LUKOVAC (Yugoslavia):  Madam President, on behalf of the Yugoslav delegation, I would like to express our full sup-  port for and endorsement of the proposed resolution by the Legal Committee fn document 18 C/117,  that the Palestinian Liberation Organization, as the only legitimate representative of Palestinian  people, be invited to the General Conference. We algo express our satisfaction at and our full ap-  proval of the resolution that the liberation movements recognized by the Organization of African  Unity should be invited to the General Conference. We associate ourselves with all those speakers  who invited Member States of the General Conference to adopt this proposal and thereby express  its respect for the heroic struggle for fundamental rights, for liberation, for independence and for  a just peace, as well as {ts readiness to assist all efforts for the elimination of colonialism, neo-  colonialiem, racial discrimination and all forms of injustice. Thank you, Madam President.
43. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Yugoslavia and I give the floor to the last speaker on my iist, the dele-  gate of Algeria.
44.1 M, DERRADJI (Algérie). -  Madame la Présidente, Mesdames, Messieurs, il y a deux ans, dans cette salle, notre Confé-  rence générale prenait une décision importante et historique, Par sa résolution 10.1 elle décidait,  après avoir reconnu la légitimité de la lutte des peuples dominês par la colonisation et l'occupation  étrangère, de les associer aux activités de notre Organisation par l'intermédiaire de leurs mouve-  ments de libération, qui portent en eux les aspirations et les espoirs de ces peuples en lutte. Cette  décision historique va trouver tout à l'heure sa concrétisation dans l'adoption du projet d'amende-  ment au Règlement Intérieur de la Conférence générale. Ce sera là pour nous un événement très  important, qui concrétisera une lutte de longue haleine, couronnée de succès grâce à l'attitude et  à la décision de la grande majorité de la communauté internationale représentée ici,
44.2 En ce qui concerne les mouvements de libération africains, la Conférence générale avait  chargé le Conseil exécutif d'arrêter les modalités d'application de sa décision. La délégation algé-  rienne estime que le projet de texte qui nous est soumis a été préparé conformément aux fnstruc-  tions de la Conférence générale, et qu'il répond au voeu que nous avions émis, Nous pensons que  son adoption ne soulèvera pas d'objection de la part de notre conférence, qui ne saurait en toute  logique se mettre en contradiction avec la décision qu'elle a prise il y a deux ans.
44.3 Comme vous le savez, Mesdames, Messieurs, le Groupe arabe a demandé au Conseil exé-  cutif, au cours de sa dernière session, de recommander à la Conférence générale d'associer  l'Organisation pour ‘a libération de la Palestine aux activités de l'Unesco, Nous nous réjouissons  de la grande comp. éhension que cette demande a rencontrée auprès des membres du Conseil exé-  cutif : approuvée par une grande majorité, sa recommandation a été soumise à la Conférence géné-  rale puis transmise au Comité juridique, qui l'a à son tour appuyée à une grande majorité,
44.4 Je ne voudrais pas m'étendre sur les arguments politiques qui justifient la présence parmi  nous de l'Organisation pour la libération de la Palestine, D'Éminents orateurs qui m'ont précédé  ont développé des arguments que nous connaissons tous, qui ont été développés dans maîntes en-  ceintes et tout dernièrement à l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies. Je voudrais seulement  répordre à certaines remarques, à certaines objections qui ont été faites et qui sont caractérisées  par une mauvaise foi tendant à induire en erreur cette assemblée sur le bien-fondé juridique sur  lequel repose cette demande de participation de l'OLP,
44,5 Tout d'abord, on a prétendu que l'OLP avait des buts contraires à la Charte de notre Organi-  eation. Mesdames, Messieurs, je ne vous lrai pas tout le Préambule de notre Acte constitutif ;  je me contenterai de vous rappeler que l'Article premier, qui en est l'un des articles fondamen-  taux, stipule que "L'Organisation se propose de contribuer au maintien de la paix et de la sécurité  en resserrant par l'éducation, la science et la culture, la collaboration entre nations, afin d'as-  surer le respect universel de la justice, de la loi, des droits de l'homme et des libertés fondamen-  tales pour tous, sans distinction de race, de sexe, de langue ou de religion, que la Charte des  Nations Unies reconnaît à tous les peuples",
44.6 On a prétendu que le peuple de Palestine est inexistant. Je ne m'étendrai pas non plus sur  ce point, qui a été largement développé, mais je voudrais répondré aux critiques qui se sont éle-  vées contre l'absence d'une résolution de l'Assemblée des Nations Unies réconnaiesant l'existence  de ce peuple et la légitimité et la représentativité de l'Organisation pour la libération de la Pales-  tine, Permettez-moi en premier lieu de citer la Résolution 2649 (XXV), qui reconnaft que "les  peuples soumis à la domination coloniale et étrangère sont légitimement fondés A exercer leur  droit à disposer d'eux-mêmes et à chercher et obtenir toutes sortes d'aide morale et matérielle".  Je vous rappellerai également la Résolution 2787 (XXV1), qui demande ''a tous les Etats attachés  aux idéaux de Liberté et de paix de fournir toute leur assistancepolitique, morale et matérielle aux  peuples qui luttent pour leur libération, l'autodétermination et l'indépendance contre la domination  coloniale et étrangère", ainsi que le Résolution 2772 (XXV), qui veconnatt que le peuple de Pales-  tine doit pouvoir jouir de l'égalité de droits et exercer son droit à disposer de lui-même. Je rap-  pellerait également la résolution 17 C/10.1 de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco à laquelle j'ai  an
15 fait tout à l'heure allusion et qui, dans l'un de ses considérants essentiels, déclarait que les  peuples en lutte pour leur Ubération devaient être associés à l'activité de l'Organisation. Enfin,  s'il en est besoin, je rappelterai la Résolution AL736 adoptée par l'Assemblée générale des Nations  Unies le 14 octobre 1974, qui reconnaît que l'Organisation pour la libération de la Palestine est le  seul représentant légitime du peuple palestinien et par laquelle elle l'invite en cette qualité à parti-  ciper au débat sur la Palestine,
44.7 Cela dit, Mesdames, Messieurs, j'ajouteräi simplement que le peuple palestinien, légitime-  ment représenté par l'Organisation pour la libération de la Palestine, chassé de son foyer, de sa  patrie, victime d'une injustice sans précédent dans l'histoire, a droit à sa place parmi nous. En  admettant aujourd'hui l'Organisation pour la Libération de la Palestine, nous contribuerons à un  début de réparation de cette injustice,
44.8 Et je ne voudrais pas terminer sans vous demander, sans demander À ceux qui ne sont pas  encore convaincus de cette légitimité, de la légitimité d'autres causes, de se retourner vers cette  salte et de voir sa composition. Quatre-vingt quinze pays ici représentés étaient hier des mouve-  ments en lutte, des mouvements de libération, Merci, Madame la Présidente.
45, "he PRESIDENT
1 thank the delegate of Algeria and I give the floor to the delegate of Romania.
46.1 M, MACOVEI (Roumanie), -  Madame la Présidente, la délégation roumaine se propose de voter en faveur des projets de  résolution qui figurent dans les annexes au rapport du Comité juridique et visent À faire apporter  au Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale les modifications nécessaires pour quel'on puisse  associer aux activités de l'Unesco des mouvements de libération nationale déjà reconnus par cer-  taines organisations régionales et intergouvernementales et inviter à la présente session de la  Conférence générale l'Organisation pour la libération de la Palestine.
46.2 La Roumanie, qui a toujours appuyé la lutte contre toutes les formes de domination colonia-  liste et néo-colonialiste, le combat des peuples pour la conquête et la consolidation de leur indé-  pendance, esifme que la justice veut que des représentants des mouvements de libération d'Afrique  et de l'OLP soient dès maintenant admis à collaborer aux travaux de l'Unesco.
46.3 Je voudrais, puisque l'occasion m'en est offerte, réaffirmer que mon pays, comprenant l'as-  piration du peuple palestinien à avoir, comme il en a le droit, une vie indépendante, appui la posi-  tion qu'a prise l'Organisation pour la libération de la Palestine en demandant la création d'un Etat  national palestinién, Merci, Madame la Présidente.
47. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Romania and I give the floor to the delegate of Bangladesh.
48.1 Mr. CHOWDHURY (Bangladesh): ;  Madam Presfdent, ‘distinguished delegates, I am grateful to you, Madam, for giving me this  opportunity to say that my delegation will whole-heartedly support the admission of the Palestinian  Liberation Organization and of liberation movements recognized by the Organization of African  Unity, We have done st, Madam President, at all the international conferences held this year, for  my Government feels thèt liberation movements should be given the opportunity to take their right-  ful share fn the world coramunity and to make their contribution to the peace of the world.
48.2 Unesco is engaged {nh the development of civilization and culture, and there can be no such  development without the participation of that large section of the peoples of the world who are re-  presented by these liberation movements. They represent a spirit, they represent hopes and as-  pirations of peoples to live in an atmosphere of freedom, so that there may be free thinking and  free expression, to generate which is the prime object of these great organizations. Therefore  my delegation strongly feels that they should be welcomed to this Organization by acclamation, and  that the relevant resolutions should be adopted and the relevant Rule of the Rules of Procedure  amended without objection, by acclamation, by all present here, in order to voice our feelings  against colonialism and oppreasion in all its manifestations and forms,
48,3 I would thérefore commend the Conference to accept these resolutions and to agree that the  Rules of Procedure be amended to facilitate the entry of the liberation movements so that we can  signify our full support for the hopes and aspirations of the peoples who are fighting for a decent  existence in this world, and in this way make a firm contribution to the development of civilization  and culture. Thank you, Madam President,
49, The PRESIDENT: Co
1 thank the delegate of Bangladesh and I give the floor to the delegate of Indonesia,
50. Mr, PADMODIPOETRO (Indonesia):  Madam Pr'eéldent, distinguished delegates, the Indonesian Government has always recognized  the legal right of the people of Palestine to self-determination. ‘The Géneral Assembly of the United  Nations hae adopted a resolution inviting the Organization for the Liberation of Palestine to partici-  pate In {ts debates. On behalf ôf the Indonesian delegation, I wish to join the majority of speakers
392   before me in supporting the resolution before us for admitting the Palestine Liberation Organization  as an observer to Unesco meetings, Thank you very much.
51, The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of Indonesia and I give the floor to the delegate of Bulgaria,
52, Mrs, MILEVA (Bulgaria):  Madam President, distinguished delegates, the delegation of the People's Republic of Bulgaria  would like to congratulate the Legal Committee on its report and on the draft resolutions it has sub-  mitted to us and to assure you that we shall vote with pleasure for the acceptance of the Palestine  Liberation Organization as well as of the African liberation movements, since it is the policy of  our Government to support all peoples fighting for their liberty and for their independence, Thank  you,
53.1 The PRESIDENT!  I thank the delegate of Bulgaria, As I have no more speakers on my list, with your permission,
1 shall put to the vote the draft resolutions contained in document 18 C/117, one by one,
53,2 First, I put to the vote draft resolution No, 1 contained in Annex I to document 18 c/n,  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
53.3 The draft resolution has been carried by 101 votes to none, with 7 abstentions,
53.4 Now I put to the vote draft resolution No, 2.  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
53.5 The draft resolution has been carried by 102 votes to none, with 8 abstentions.
53,6 Now I put to the vote draft resolution No. 3.  {The vote was taken by show of hands)
53.7 The draft resolution has been carried by 102 votes to none, with 7 abstentions,
53.8 Now we proceed to the draft resolutions contained in Annex II, The delegate of France has  the floor,
54.1 M, MAILLARD (France). - ’  Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais préciser que le vote d'absten-  tion émis par mon pays ne signifie nullement que nous soyons opposés a ce que l'OLP participe  comme observateur aux travaux de la Conférence générale, . Bien au contraire, nous considérons  cette participation comme un fait positif et heureux, compte tenu à la fois de la représentativité  accordée à cette organisation par les pays de la Ligue arabe, des données de la conjoncture poli-  tique actuelle, de la contribution que l'OLP pelt apporter à nos travaux quand ceux-ci intéressent  la région où elle opère, et du besoin d'aide des populations de cette région, dont le sort douloureux  ne nous a jamais laissés indifférents.
54,2 Notre position ne fait que traduire, comme nous l'avons déjà dit tant au sein du Conseil exé-  cutif qu'au sein du Comité juridique, les réserves d'ordre juridique que nous avons à faire, non  pas sur le statut de l'OLP, mais sur les modalités auxquelles on a eu recours pour permettre  cette participation, au même degré que celle des mouvements de libération d'Afrique. En effet :  - Premièrement, il nous paraît peu normal d'introduire dans le Règlement intérieur des dispo-  sitlons visant directemente ou indirectement des organismes dêterminës ;  - Deuxièmement, ces organismes ont une vocation qui ne garantit pas suffisamment leur per-  manence pour qu'il convienne de traiter leur cas dans le cadre d'un règlement, surtout si  c'est pour assimiler ce cas à celui d'Etats non membres ;  - Troisidmement, enfin, pour permettre la participation de représentants de ces organisation  à la discussion de certains points particuliers, mieux aurait valu, À notre avis, prendre  exemple sur l'Organisation des Nations Unies en adoptant la méthode qui aurait consisté à  faire adopter par la Conférence générale des décisions ad hoc,  Merci, Madame la Présidente.
65.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of France. Now we proceed to the draft resolutions contained in Annex II  of document 18 C/117, The delegate of Israel has asked for a vote by roll-call, I would like to ask  the delegate of Israel whether I am interpreting his request correctly, namely, that he wishes a  roll-call vote only on the draft resolution No, 1? Yes. Ie this motion seconded?
55.2 The request of the delegation of Israel has not been supported, Consequently, Rule 83 governs  our procedure and I put to the vote draft resolution No. 1.
1s (The vote was taken by show of hands)
55,3 The draft resolution has been carried by 86 votes to 2, with 17 abstentions.
55,4 Now I put to the vote draft resolution No. 2,  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
55,5 Draft resolution No, 2 has been carried by 87 votes to 2, with 20 abstentions,
55.6 Now I put to the vote draft resolution No. 3,  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
55,7 Draft resolution No. 3 has been carried by 85 votes to 2, with 22 abstentions,
55,8 I give the floor to the delegate of the United States of America for an explanation of vote.
56.1 Mr. JONES (United States of America):  Thank you, Madam President, distinguished delegates, the United States of America regrets  the necessity of voting against the three resolutions in Annex II in their present form, This is  specially regrettable because had the wording of the three resolutions been changed to provide for  the admission of liberation movements recognized by the League of Arab States we would not have  opposed it.
56.2 We wish it to be understood that our vote today in no way reflects our lack of understanding  for the very real concerns of the Palestinian people, nor does it reflect indifference to the recog-  nized fact that the Palestinian problem lies at the heart of the settlement of the Middle-Eastern  conflict. Rather our vote represents our opposition to injecting into the Rules of Procedure a high-  ly political element, These Rules of Procedure, like any set of rules of procedure, provide for the  orderly conduct of business and are addressed to strictly procedural problems that arise in the nor-  mal course of events, They are, therefore, general, non-political and impersonal in character and  do not take account of political issues, It is our firm view that an invitation to the Palestinian Lib-  eration Movement as an observer to this Conference could have been provided for by alternative  methods or a better-advised formulation of a procedural rule,
56.3 The United States of America has long had reservations about the advisability of admitting  national liberation movements - and indeed, any political group which is not a State - to internation-  al conferences particularly those devoted to non-political subjects, such as Unesco Conferences,  None the less, we have concurred on several occasions to the use of a formula under which the ap-  propriate regional, intergovernmental organization may designate such groups to attend internation-  al meetings under its sponsorship, However, for the reasons already given we cannot accept the  alteration of this formula introduced by these resolutions, Thank you, Madam President,
57. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of the United States of America and I give the floor to the delegate of New  Zealand.
58, Mr. GABITES (New Zealand): ;  Madam President, the positive vote of the New Zealand delegation in respect of Annex II of  document 18 C/117 {s dictated by reasons of consistency, It does not imply that we approve of all  the methods employed by all liberation movements, Our Goverrment's opposition to the use of  armed violence and terrorism is well known. I should add that we do not accept that the Palestinian  Liberation Organization is necessarily the sole representative of the Palestinian people. Thank you,  Madam President,
59. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of New Zealand. As there are no further explanations of vote, I give the  floor to the Director-General.
60, Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL, -  Madame la Présidente, à la suite des votes qui viennent d'intervenir sur les résolutions figu-  rant aux annexes I et II du Rapport du Comité juridique, je déclare que les représentants des mou-  vements de libération de l'Afrique reconnus par 1'OUA, d'une part, et de l'Organisation pour la  libération de la Palestine, d'autre part, sont dès maintenant admis comme observateurs à la pré-  sente session de la Conférence générale. Une communication écrite leur sera très prochainement  adressée, mais la décision qui vient de prendre la Conférence générale entre :mmédiatement en  vigueur.
61. The PRESIDENT:.
1 thank the Director-General and I give the floor tô the representative of the Palestine Libera-  tion Movement.
6 aphyhl *Liels Lg) Bolle ab Bund, (57 hee  o— Soe 5 Watt Via à pti A EU aes (p00 Load i aptedranlidl pos Zubia pul,  ahoally B30 apdsl ape) SI bps sept ole) saat pond GIT I Jay Gees up 57 Los Lu  + Sleep JUIN FEV y png WOU WA TRWPCT IE Ss PERU URE VRRP IFC Le il  FCN] lie  sy abl Lib Ldauly Lage dolor Jobs Guy peer JU), Lau 1 ge L300 Ha — yy  Abd Ba JE Lk Vpn dal ge Jol lent Jas oo po lue 515
5,0 IU La 100 dl sy ao peal ae Ja pe Jabs Apte 5000)  RN PPR NR RUPE IER Le JOPCR | J TER PNT anne JE JON SRR Ve TT s dm thus SU SN POF JWR |  CSR VST cynë)layans teint) bla lead al 55 VETO 1 SVT Aline es 1 WOT I JC
33 gl {HJR ITI. SETI || Apr) hs VA ça I I ques ‘Les IRC Ye Le Jaton  paye du 5,80 3 Joly (1310 puma BY dad pe Bo bogl) gia) y Lis VU opens SAM 9785 gi ont)  mtr SI IU Wl nant 35,2800 dy IV rT, 10 Ju) ag VY 3,801 2058 15 rth  ,  teh 380 51 0 pus dl kp boy cute VS cody obs aat US 55 Val des oO) LY  I pH is 55h FHV DE WY VERN] IPR) SUC Ny TI JV-Y IRF JC FPN RIHS WPS IRENE LE  sy aptes 6 0 bs FRITS eu da Lphes chas up Lond Guba) 5e5at cody LIU Lsto Yy Vol y oe  « ophustls caprsneualls 9913 Lines p Nues Ld Guta gl eb lin ol oshab 3h ‘La  ae VV Jp alles ony lsd old anit VI UN 5  Suapd juste Sal od 8 and Va — VyOt  A Lo YY JLaJ3 a, ae A5 5 th, by ag pa Lu S  + Lagan SI 15. + ouai at pul Seen oletb so Lt NILAR IE Yow!
(62.1) Mr. ABDUL AZIZ ALWAJIH {Palestine Liberation Organization) (Translation from the Arabic):  Madam President distinguiehed heads and members of delegations, allow me on behalf of the PLO, the  sole legitimate representative of the Palestinian people whose profound Arab cultural heritage dates back  thousands of years, to express our deep appreciation for the efforts exerted by the brotherly and friendly  delegations that have contributed to the adoption of a resolution inviting the PLO and other liberation move-  ments in the world to participate in this Conference.
(62.2) This resolution 1s a victory for alt the peoples fighting for their freedom, independence and national  culture, It will undoubtedly contribute to enhance our people's just struggle to restore all {ts national rights.  The Palestitian revolution fights for the just cause of Palestine. World public opinion has recently shown  increasing understanding for the jusiice of this cause, Furthermore, the resolution of the United Nations  General Assembly, which considers the people of Palestine the main party concerned and the PLO its legiti-  mate representative, is also a victory for the Palestinian people and all other peoples that fight for their  legitimate rights, The declarations recently made by President Giscard d'Estaing of France reaffirmed  the existence of the Palestinian people and the urgent necessity of taking its national rights into account for  the establishment of a lasting and just peace in the Middle East, This fs an exemplary position in under-  standing the Middle East question, not only In the context of the European Community but in the Western  world as a whole,
(62.3) The Palestine question is a problem ôf a people and a homeland. It ia nota problem of refugees or  frontiers. The Palestinian revolution fighta for that just and lasting peace fn the Middle East for which the  whole of humanity has been longing, But that peace will be neither just nor lasting as long as the national  rights of our people are trampled upon, including its right to return to its homeland, its right to sell-  determination and its right to the establishment of the democratic State of Palestine in which Jews, Chris-  Hans and Muslims would live together In peace and equality.
(62.4) I would also like to thank the General Conference of Unesco for offering us the opportunity to parti-  etpate tn its deliberations and to learn from the experience of Member States, -In this way we shall be able  to make our contribution to the development of a new culture {n the interest of all mankind. Allow me once  more, dear friends, to greet you all on behalf of the people of Palestine, Thank you.
63. The PRESIDENT:  I thank Mr, Aziz Alwajih, the observer for the Palestine Liberation Organization ard now I  give the floor to Mr. Pedro Gadimpovi, the observer for the National Liberation Front of Angola.
64.1 M, GADIMPOVI (Représentant du Front national ‘de libération de l'Angola). -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais d'abord vous féliciter chaleureusement de votre élection à  la présidence de la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco et vous souhaite”,  à cette occasion, plein succès dans l'exercice de votre mandat. Je formule les memes souhaits à  l'endroit de tous vos collaborateurs pour la pleine réussite de la présente session,
64.2 Madame la Présidente, distingués chefs des délégations, Mesdames, Messieurs, le peuple  angolais, combattant sous la direction éclairée du frère et militant Holden Roberto, prêsident du  Front national de libération de l'Angola, n'a chargé de transmettre à cette auguste assemblée ses  salutations fraternelles et ses souhaits de plein succès pour ses travaux. Je remercie sincèrement  les organisateurs de cette session, qui ont bien voulu y associer les mouvement de libération en
15 général et lo FNLA en particuller, Je remercie d'une manière toute particulière la Conférence  générale de l'Unesco d'avoir pris la décision de modifier son Règlement intérieur afin que les mou-  vements de libération puissent sidger officiellement en qualité d'observateurs à ses sessions, Que  tous ceux qui ont milité en faveur de cette décision trouvent ici l'expression de profonde gratitude  de tous les combattants de la liberté.
64,3 Madame la Présidente, lorsqu'on parle des mouvements de libération nationale, la plupart  des gens pensent qu'il s'agit d'organisations qui no préparent que la guerre et rien d'autre. Or  c'est une grave erreur que nous devons immédiatement corriger, En ce qui concerné l'Angola,  pays qui détient un grand pourcentage d'analphabètes - soit plus de 90 % - le FNLA accorde une  place de choix à l'éducation, C'est dans ce cadre qu'il faut situer la création dès 1963 (soit deux  ans seulement après le déclenchement de la lutte armée, le 15 mars 1961) de ses propres écoles  primaires et secondaires en oxil (précisément en République du Zafre) et à l'intérieur de l'Angola  dans les zones libérées,
64.4 La première école primaire et secondaire est le Complexe scolaire du 15 mars "Cosquima",  ainsi nommé en souvenir de la date historique du déclenchement de notre lutte de libération natio-  nale, Afin de pouvoir résoudre dans le meilleur délai le problème des enseignants dans nos écoles  primaires, le FNLA accorda une priorité à la formation pédagogique : à ce jour, plus de 90 insti-  tutrices et instituteurs sont diplômés du Complexe scolaire du 15 mars "Cosquima'’, La deuxième  priorité a été accordée à la section commerciale, qui a pour mission "la formation des cadres  moyens de l'administration de nos écoles et d'autres services du FNLA". Enfin, la section litté-  raire, qui reste A créer, doit préparer les jeunes gens A différentes disciplines. Au programme  de cette année scolaire figure la création d'une section scientifique ; malheureusement, notre ac-  tion est freinée par te manque de matériel didactique indispensable à un bon fonctionnement de  cette section : diverses organisations doivent nous l'envoyer.
64.5 Toutes nos écoles, tant primaires que secondaires, sont mixtes. Cela veut dire que les  jeunes filles et les jeunes garçons se trouvant dans une meme classe se sentent égaux, Les résul-  tats obtenus jusqu'à présent sont très encourageants.
64.6 Nous avons en République du Zafre plusieurs écoles primaires et secondaires ; l'effectif  total y est de 25,000 élèves, dont 14,800 pour le cycle primaire et 10.200 pour le cycle secon-  daire. Le nombre d'enseignants dans nos écoles est de 284, dont 206 pour le cycle primaire et
76 pour le cycle secondaire.
64.7 En Angola, les écoles du FNLA qui se trouvent dans les zones libérées ont un effectif total  de 18,500 élèves, Ces écoles rencontrent d'énormes difficultés en raison du manque d'équipement,  de matériel didactique (cahiers, crayons, ardôises, papier, etc.), de l'insuffisance de locaux sco-  laires, etc. C'est dans ce cadre qu'il faut situer les nombreuses demandes d'aide matérielle que  nous avons adressées à l'Unesco et à d'autres institutions spécialisées des Nations Unies, dont le  Haut-Commissarlat pour les réfugiés et l'Unicef. Je tiens à remercier tout spécialement ces deux  organisations pour la rapidité et l'efficacité de leur aide,
64.8 Comme vous pouvez le constater, le FNLA consent des sacrifices énormes pour soutenir  toutes les écoles en dépit de ses moyens très limités. Heureusement, le peuple angolais applique  le principe de notre guide, le frère et militant Holden Roberto, qui dit: "Il faut compter avant tout  sur ses propres forces", Grâce à ce principe, le peuple angolais combattant a pu soutenir sa  lutte de libération sous toutes ses formes pendant plus de dix ans,
64,9 A côté des cours de jour, le FNLA a créé, à l'intention des adultes, des cours du soir dont  le programme comprend l'alphabétisation, les mathématiques, l'histoire, la géographie, l'éduca-  tion civique basée sur la révolution angolaise, l'étude des langues, etc. Cela pose d'autres pro-  blèmes au FNLA, car un personnel qualifié est indispensable, Il-faut également du matériel didac-  tique approprié. Nous espérons que l'Unesco n'hésitera pas à nous aider dans ce domaine;
64.10 Soucieux d'améliorer davantage la qualité dé son enseignement, le FNLA organise régu-  lièrement des séminaires de recyclage des enseignants. Au début de cette année a eu lieu à  Kinshasa, du 18 au 20 février, un séminaire qui a réuni plus de 200 enseignants pendant trois  jours sur le thème: "L'enseignant angolais au service de la Révolution". Ce séminaire a été  entièrement financé par le FNLA.
34,11 Au mots de novembre 1974 aura lieu, à Mbanza-Ngungu, dans la région du Bas-Zaire, un  néminaire de recyclage pour les directeurs et sous-directeurs d'écoles. Quant aux inspecteurs  de l'enseignement, un séminaire leur sera consacré en décembre 1974 à Matadi, toujours dans la  région du Bas-Zafre, région où se trouvent la plupart des réfugiés angolais, Je suis heureux de  vous annoncer que ces deux prochains séminaires seront entièrement financée par l'Unicef.
64,12 Toujours dans le but d'améliorer la qualité de notre enseignement, une section spécialisée  appelée ‘Centre de formation des maîtres", en abrégé CFM, fonctionnera à partir du mois de no-  vembre 1974 au sein du Complexe scolaire du 16 mars ""Cosquima'. Ce centre est chargé de for-  mer, par des cours intensifs de neuf mois, des enseignants du niveau postsecondaire. Il s'agit  d'enseignants ayant d6jà travaillé pendant trois ans au moins. Pour le démarrage de cette section,  malheureusement, nous manquons d'un équipement adéquat : il devra venir d'organisations comme
1'Unicef et l'Unesco. Nous espérons qu'une attention particulière sera accordée à ce point spéci- 18  fique et qu'une urgence lui sera accordée,
64,13 Dans le domaine de la culture, le FNLA a créé une troupe théâtrale, des groupes do dan-  seurs et chanteurs angolais, des chorales, un cercle littéraire, une association d'artistes (peintres,  sculpteurs, céramistes, etc,). Pour entretenir tous ces ensembles, le FNLA s'impose d'énormes  sacrifices. De temps & autre, nous organisons des soirées culturelles et récréatives au cours  desquelles nos jeunes acteurs se produisent, Mais cela ne suffit pas. Pour les encourager, il fau-  drait que nous puissions organiser, un jour, une sortie hors de la République du Zafre. L'Unesco  pourra nous faciliter la tâche par le truchement de sa Division du développement culturel, Les ré-  sultats jusqu'à présent obtenus par nos jeunes acteurs, chanteurs et danseurs nous permettent  d'affirmer que nous pouvons nous produire dans n'importe quel pays pour y apporter le message du  peuple angolais combattant.
64,14 Afin que l'on puisse mieux juger de l'importance de ses besoins, le FNLA a invité l'Unesco,  en janvier 1974, à envoyer au Zaïre un expert pour y visiter ses écoles. En juin 1974, un expert  fut désigné qui accomplit sa mission du 13 au 18 juin 1974, La brièveté de son séjour ne pouvant  évidemment pas lui permettre de visiter toutes nos écoles, il en a donc visité quelques-unes à  titre d'échantillon, À l'issue de sa mission pleine d'enseignements, il a fait un rapport dans le-  quel il a mis en évidence les problèmes des écoles du FNLA et proposé des solutions d'urgence,  Nous espérons que l'Unesco a pris en considération toutes les recommandations contenues dans ce  rapport, car les besoins exprimés sont urgents et l'année scolaire a déjà commencé depuis le 2  septembre 1974.
64,15 Pour nous faciliter la tâche, il serait souhaitable que l'Unesco et le PNUD allègent leurs  procédures administratives qui, jusqu'à présent, entratment de grands retards dans l'exécution  des projets, Pour les mouvements de libération, je suis convaincu que l'Unesco et le PNUD  peuvent trouver des procédures plus souples, par exemple en allégeant les formalités de visas,  ce qui permettrait une plus rapide exécution des projets. Un autre moyen serait, à mon avis, de  renforcer le budget du programme ordinaire de l'Unesco, qui dépend entièrement du Directeur  général. Néanmoins, je dois reconnaître ici les efforts du Secrétariat.
64,16 Dans le domaine des sciences, le FNLA souhaiterait voir l'Unesco associer à ses travaux  de recherches de jeunes Angolais (historiens, pédagogues, psychologues, économistes, etc.).  Des initiatives individuelles devraient également être encouragées et soutenues par l'Unesco.
64,17 Madame la Présidente, la lutte pour la libération du peuple angolais contre le colonialisme  portugais ge développant d'une manière accélérée, le FNLA étudie déjà le problème du rapatrie-  ment et de la réinstallation des Angolais. A cet effet, une commission a êté créée et &tudie tous  les aspects du problème, Dans une lettre adressée au Haut-Commiasaire des Nations Unies pour  les réfugiés, le Guide de la révolution angolaise, le frère et militant Holden Roberto, précise  qu'il y aura environ 2, 500,000 Angolais à rapatrier, Ce chiffre vous étonnera sans doute. Mais  outre les 800. 000 réfugiés angolais venus à partir de 1961, après le déclenchement de la lutte de  libération, il faut tenir compte de quelque 1.700.000 Angolais qui depuis des dizaines d'années  ont fui l'oppression portugaise.
64,18 Au moment où nous parlons du rapatriement des Angolais, l'Unesco devrait profiter de  l'occasioit qui lui offre la dix-huitidme session de sa Conférence générale pour lancer un appel  pressant A tous ses Etats membres en les invitant 4 se pencher sérieusement sur ce problème.  L'Angola ayant un grand retard en matière d'éducation, le FNLA croît fermement que l'Unesco  apportera son concours au peuple angolais afin de combattre, dans un temps record, l'analpha-  bétisme et l'ignorance, Mais, pour y parvenir, il serait nécessaire, voire indispensable, que  tous les Etats membres se penchent sans tarder sur un sujet si important,
64,19 Nous estimons à 660.000 environ le nombre des enfants scolarisables, soit 440.000 enfants  pour le cycle primaire et 220,000 enfants environ pour le cycle secondaire,
64,20 Dans un premier temps, nous aurons besoin de 530 écoles primaires environ et de 176  écoles secondaires, Il faudra au moins 10, 600 enseignants dans les écoles primaires et 5.280  enseignants dans. les écoles secondaires. Je ne voudrais pas énumérer ici ce dont nous aurions  besoin pour équiper et entretenir ces écoles, car je suls convaincu que l'assemblée de spécia-  listes & qui j'ai l'honneur de m'adresser comprendra d'elle-même quels seraient les besoins dans  les domaines de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture,
64.21 A côté de ces écoles primaires et secondaires dont devra être doté 1'Angola indépendant,  l'éducation des adultes devrait être intensifiée, car le développement d'un pays dépend largement  de la formation morale et intellectuelle de sa population.
64,22 Madame la Présidente, en soulevant tous ces problèmes, j'ai voulu montrer à tous les  Etats membres de l'Unesco et aux autres organisations des Nations Unies ici présentes que le  rapatriement et la réinstallation des Angolais va bouleverser tous les plafonds budgétaires déjà  votés à Paris, à Genève et ailleurs, et qu'il faudra nécessairement envisager d'autres possibilités  pour faire face à ce nouveau problème.
64.23 En adressant uno lettre officielle au Haut-Comrnissaire des Nations Unies pour les réfugiés,  le frère et militant Holden Roberto a voulu alerter en temps opportun les Nations Unies, par le  truchement de son institution spécialisée, pour qu'elle puisse prendre ses dispositions.
64.24 En ce qui concerne l'Unesco, je souhaiterais que, mises à part les contributions spéciales  qui seront certainement versées pour cette opération spéciale, tous les pays amis demandent à  leurs enfants respectifs d'entrer en contact direct avec les enfants angolais et d'organiser en leur  faveur des collectes de matériel didactique : cahiers, stylos à bille, crayons, gommes, papier,  livres mème, Cela ne manquerait pas de favoriser l'amitié entre les enfants angolais et les en-  fants des écoles des autres pays, Admettons qu'il y ait dans un pays 100,000 enfants scolari-  sables qui envoient 100,000 crayons, et prenons le nombre des pays membres de l'Unesco, qui ne  voit qu'une telle opération rendrait facile l'équipement de nos écoles dans un Angola indépendant  et libre ? Je souhaiterais que cette opération puisse commencer le 10 mars 1976, journée que  nous avons décidé de consacrer à l'étudiant angolais, Les gouvernements, quant à eux, se char-  geraient des grandes contributions qui seraient demandées par l'Unesco.
64.25 Cela dit, Madame la Présidente, distingués chefs de délégation, Mesdames, Messieurs,  j'arrive à la fin du message que j'avais à vous apporter au nom du peuple angolais combattant, au  nom du frère Holden Roberto, président du Front national de libération de l'Angola, et en mon  nom personnel,
64.26 Je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.
65. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the observer for the National Liberation Front of Angola and now I give the floor to the  delegate of Portugal.
66.1 M, COIMBRA MARTINS (Portugal), -  Madame la Présidente, Mesdames, Messieurs, on se saurait considérer comme un simple  hasard le fait que les mouvements de libération se voient reconnaître le droit à la parole en cette  assemblée au moment où le Portugal vient d'y retrouver son siège, Ma délégation est particulière-  ment bien placée pour saluer très fraternellement les représentants des mouvements de libération  d'Afrique. Si notre pays était oppresseur en Afrique, c'est parce que le peuple portugais était  lui-même opprimé au Portugal. Ceux qui, dans ce pays, faisaient partie de l'opposition savaient  fort bien que le combat du peuple portugais contre le fascisme et le combat des peuples africains  contre le colonialisme salazariste n'étaient qu'un seul et même combat. La preuve vient d'en être  donnée, Il a suffi que se produise au Portugal une révolution sans effusion de sang pour qu'un nou-  veau gouvernement portugais reconnaisse de lui-même l'indépendance de la Guinée-Bissau, signe  les accords de Lusaka et mette tout en oeuvre pour que la question de l'Angola soit résolue le plus  rapidement possible.
66.2 Je voudrais profiter de cette occasion pour remercier tous les délégués qui, du haut de cette  tribune, ont fait allusion à ces faits et, tout spécialement, les représentants du Brésil, du Sénégal  et de la République de Guinée, Il s'avère que nous avons, en cette occasion, non seulement l'appui  chaleureux de nos alliés traditionnels, comme la Grande-Bretagne et la France, comme les Etats-  Unis et le Brésil, mais aussi celui des Etats africains, du Togo, de la Mauritanie, de tous ces  pays qui peuvent enfin devenir nos amis. Les démocraties occidentales et orientales se sont les  unes comme les autres félicitées de notre retour à l'Unesco et du changement de régime qui a eu  lieu au Portugal, ainsi que de notre volonté de décolonisation franche et totale, qui s'est déjà tra-  duite dans les faits. C'est dire que les valeurs dont s'inspire maintenant notre politique sont des  valeurs universelles. Après huit siècles d'histoire, tout se passe comme si le Portugal naissait  de nouveau, Cet enfant encore fragile qu'est là démocratie portugaise, vous avez tous, Mesdames  et Messieurs, choisi de le parrainer. Imprudemment ? Oh que rion | Nous comprennons que l'at-  tachement de certains pays à la pureté des prinéipes les conduisent à demeurer dans l'expectative.  Nous comprenons que les pays non alignés disent, avec la Guinée-Conakri ; "l'Angola n'est pas  encore décolonigé', Nous le éomprenons, car nous autres Portugais, nous le disons aussi. Et  cependant, nous sommes conscients d'avoir déjà, cing mois après le 25 avril, autant fait pour la  liberté qu'avait fait pour la tyrannie un système sans cesse perfectionné au cours du demi-siècle  d'oppression qu'a connu le Portugal.
66.3 A-t-on souvent, dans l'histoire des peuples, tant accompli en si peu de temps ? Le nombre  et la chaleur de vos félicitations prouvent, Mesdames et Messieurs, que vous êtes de mon avis, et  je souhaite que vous me permettez de remercier én premier lieu les pays africains. Abstraction  faite de toute considération politique - car la politique n'est pas de mise dans cette Organisation -  je demande aux pays frères comme l'Espagne et le Brésil, à nos vieux alliés comme la Grande-  Bretagne ét la France, aux Etats-Unis, à l'Europe dans laquelle nous nous intégrons, je leur  demande, dis-je, d'accepter que nos remerciements aillent tout d'abord aux pays africains, car  aucun peuple - même pas peut-être le peuplé portugais - n'a autant souffert de l'obscurantisme  salazariste que les peuples africains. Or à peine le Portugal a-t-il changé de cap que déjà l'Afrique  nous tend la main, ce qui nous laiese émus, mais non pas surpris. Je prends encore mieux cons-  cience, en partiéipant À cette conférence, du mensonge que commettait la dictature salazariste en  présentant la colonisation comme la mission historique du Portugal. C'est exactementle contraire:  c'est la décolonisation qui est 1a mission historique du Portugal,
66,4 Ce n'ent pas par hasard que, mis à part les pays africains, le Brésil a £t6 la pays que nous 15  a adressé lo salut le plus éloquent, L'indépendance du Brésil date en effet elle-même d'une vic-  toire de la libe“té au Portugal à la suite de la grande Révolution française. Que l'ambassadevr du  Brésil, celui du Togo et celui du Sénégal se soient en l'occurrence trouvés unis dans un même  élan, cela montre que la voie de la décolonisation est bien notre voie. Nous la suivrons jusqu'au  bout, Nous assumerons l'oeuvre entreprise le 25 avril, Nous l'achèverons, Mesdoemes et Mes-  sieurs, avec votre aide, A la dix-neuvidme session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco - qui  se déroulera peut-être en Afrique, alors que l'Organisation sera vraisemblablement dirigée par  un Africain éminent - participeront certainement en qualité d'Etats souverains non seulement la  Guinée-Bissau et le Mozambique mais aussi l'Angola et une République portugaise au gouverne-  ment librement élu et aux institutions démocratiques afferraies. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
67.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the debate on the first report of the Legal Commit-  tee. May I be permitted to welcome, on my own behalf, the observers of the African liberation  movements and the Palestine Liberation Organization, who will take part in the further work of the  eighteenth session of the General Conference,
67,2 At 9,00 p.m. the general debate will be resumed. The first speaker will be the head of the  delegation of Trinidad and Tobago, The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 6,00 p.m,  La séance eat levée à 18 h, 00  Se levanta la sesién a las 18,00