Forty-seventh plenary meeting
23 November 1974 at 10 a, m. )  President; Mrs. JOBORU (Hungary) ‘  Quaratite-septième séänce plénière
28 novembre 1974 à 10 h.  Présidente : Mme JOBORU (Hongrie)  Cuadragesimoséptima sesiôn plenaria
18 C/PLEN/DR. 18 and 18 C/PLEN/DR. 27)  EXAMEN DE PROJETS DE RESOLUTION RELATIFS AU POINT 12 DE L'ORDRE DU JOUR
(18 C/PLEN/DR. 5, 18 C/PLEN/DR.6, 18 C/PLEN/DR. 7, 18 C/PLEN/DR, 10, 18 C/PLEN/DR, 17  y 18 C/PLEN/DR, 27)  PACCMOTPEHHE IIPOEKTOB PE30JIOIHII, OTHOCAMUXCS K NYHKTY 12 HOBECTKH AHA
18 C/PLEN/DR. 171 18 C/PLEN/DR. 27)  MIS LIN PPAR Tp 11 PEN] JOLA RT] TEA eg fe és  «NY Sp lelofpyA 6 90 Gpfialofpy A 0 Y Sp /H0 1/0 NA oN Gp lebfpIA 6 0 Gpiabe/prA  YY Gp ialo/py A
1. The PRESIDENT:  The meeting {8 called to order. Ladles and gentlemen, we have five draft resolutions before  us: 18 C/PLEN/DR.5, 6, 7, 10 and 17, and an amendment (18 C/PLEN/DR. 27) to draft resolu-  tion 18 C/PLEN/DR.5. I should like to draw your attention to the fact that these draft resolutions  were introduced in the plenary and that a general debate has already taken place concerning them.  Consequently, our business Ls now to vote these draft resolutions and to consider amendments.  There is one exception, namely the amendment 18 C/PLEN/DR, 27 to 18 C/PLEN/DR.5. This was  not Introduced in the plenary and we will therefore take up 18 C/PLEN/DR. 5, item 12.1, now. I  give the floor to Syria.  Draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 5 and draft amendment 18 C/PLEN/DR. 27  EE rec ) alts GU edt |  | [yr RM poe LS  led oles X  peser 0 YY 3 p 20/61 A5 JAI p y deu banal ply ps Au SV gee  rte gl JL GLYN JY LI pr lise ue (BW 0G p7h0/p VA (3) Liste als Jind] 1a
47 Jp st oe NES till sidi ge epledb Bamdt 31,1 3 BI dgudanl LnchIl 56 Juil  pla) perde Mi dal AN Gps SIENS LT JETER PR ATIF CORTE WT  ITA da de pile OM pape 5 GMA Jp POUPRAY I | JUG SPUN ppagaatsé pp YO Wg 11]  ELLE gm pI bt ISLE 05531 by be Ska 1 AVE / 19/05 Es Retabrandid) and l chats Jy 200  NAYE/) + Yd RSV lo Gp ieljpia hs LM pd ré pass on SES pal of plio lat Lis 5  de PRT WET pol Je raitlga de pp AR MTL IY WIN] JOSE WSSE-QUS ITI | BIHAR pile 457 5  a EATS
(2) Mr, NACHABE (Syrian Arab Republic) (Translation from the Arpbich + ; 14  Thank you, Madam Président. I have the hénour, on behalf a! the sponsors of‘18 C/PLEN/DR. 27,  including my own country, to slate that it was natural for‘this amendment to 18 C/ PLEN/DR. 5 - inviting  the Director-General to exercise full supervision of the operation of educational and cultural institutions  in the occupied territories and to co-operate with the Palestine Liberation Organization and with the Arab  States concerned with a view to providing the population in the occupied Arab territories with every means  of enjoying their rights to education and cullure go as to preserve their pational identity - to be submitted  by ita Authors after the' General Conference's invitation 16, and acceptance of, the Palesline Liberation  Organization on 25 October 1974 to attend as an observer and the consequent decisions in that respect  taken by the General Conference, namely, on the day after 24 October 1974 vhen 18 C/PLEN/DR. 5 was  submitted to the Secretariat and was introduced to you by the delegate of the Arab Republic of Egypt.  Accordingly, on behalf of the sponsors of the draft amendment, I invite the plenary meeting to adopt it.  Thank you, Madam President.
3. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the Deputy Director-General.
4,1 Mr. FOBES (Deputy Director-General):  Madam President, as you noted, 18 C/PLEN/DR. 5 was introduced and discussion has already  taken place, The Director-General sees at least three major issues or problems which we would  have to consider in the application of such a resolution, To begin with, the first operative para-  graph speaks of the exercise of full supervision of the operation of both educational and cultural  institutions. The first issue or problem, then, would be to define the maaning of full supervision  in respect of administrative and financial questions, in respect of curricula in educational institu-  tions, and in respect of professional standards. A second major Issue arises because the resolu-  tion asks that the Director-General's action be carried out in co-operation with th Arab States  concerned and, of course, the amendment would raise a new dimension - co-.peration not only  with the Arab States concerned but with the Palestine Liberation Organization. And the third ma-  jor issue or problem would be the need for the Director-General tointerpret the requirement that  the populations in these territories be provided with every means of enjoying their rights to edu-  cation and culture, 80 as to preserve their national identity. This would require considerable  study and interpretation, .
4.2 There are therefore three major issues or problems which the Director-General would have  to consider and, in order to arrive at some judgement on these issues, that fs to define them, it  would be necessary to gather a considerable amount of information which is not now available to  the Director-General. The gathering of thal Information depends, of course, on contacts and on  negotiations with all parties concerned. One might envisage, therefore, four initial stages; first,  contacts with the Arab Siates concerned and, should the amendments be adopted, with the Palestine  Liberation Organization. The second step would consist of making contact with the authorities of  Israel to advise them that the Director-General wishes to contact the local authorities concerned  with education and cultural institutions. The study carried out by the Director-General in response  to the resolution on which you have a report shows that, in the territories concerned, it is local  educational authorities who are fully responsible for the operation of the institutions, The third  step would be to make contact with those local authorities to explain that the Director-General has  a mandate from the General Conference to undertake certain action. This stage would thereforebe  of both an information-gathering and an explanatory nature. The fourth step in this initial phase  would be that the Director-General would advise the Executive Board on the information he had  gathered, the results of initial contacts and negotiations, and at least the beginning of preliminary  definitions concerning the three major issues I mentioned.
4.3 It ia therefore clear, Madam President, that the charge {s a heavy one and would take some  time, not only to gather Information and initfate contacts and negotiations but to reflect and hold  discussions béfore preparing a reasoned report to thè Executive Board 60 that Ît may be consulted  and give its advice. I conclude, Madam President, by suylng that, In a matter of such import and  such complexity, the Director-General would obviously wish to proceed with great care and caution  because he would operate on the assumption that this mandate should be carried out in the interests  of the Organization as well as to Initiate constructive action in the direction asked for in respect of  the rights of the populations concerned to education and culture so as to preserve their national  identity. These are not easy issues, He would want to proceed, as I say, with the Interests of the  Organization in mind as Well as the interests of the populations concerned. A very preliminary  conclusion is this: if we were to bulld on the strength of Unesco, the experiences gained, then we  would not function as a simple contractor, an administrator, an executor, to carry out operational  functions; rather, we would endeavour to serve as adviser or counsellor to the educational and cul-  tural institations and authorities concerned, as in fact we are now asked to do by some Member
652   States, especially in‘the reform of their educational systems. ‘The Director-General would of 47  course draw not only on the experience gained by Unesco in advising Member States generally in  the field of education and cultural development, but also on experience in the education division of  the UNRWA, where basically Unesco is an adviser in respect of educational structures within the  UNRWA {itself and the local authorities, although there Unesco has, in part, an administrative rôle.
4.4 I should have mentioned that we have'a relationship agreement with the League of Arab States  and with ALECSO, and it would betnatural to consult with those organizations, I have not gone into  detail, but I think it is evident that there are considerable financial implications in this resolution  which cannot be identified at this point, The Director-General, having no budgetary appropriations  for the consultations, would, however, {f this resolution were adopted, take such dispositions as  Aere possible within the present Programme and Budget. His consultation with the Executive  Board, however, would immediately raise the issue of how to finance thé preparatory phases as  well as raising questions about the future. One possibility would be an authorization to draw a  certain amount of money from the Working Capital Fund, This is a practice which has been em-  ployed in the past when there were unforeseen emergency needs, Itisnotinaccordance withstriet  financial practice but it has been adopted in the United Nations and has in facta parallel in the pres-  ent authorization to use the Working Capital Fund for the United Nations to engage in certain activi-  ties relative to political and security matters,
5.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the Deputy Director-General, Are there any amendments to 18 C/PLEN/DR. 5 or to  the amendment contained in 18 C/PLEN/DR. 27? I call for a vote on 18 C/PLEN/DR. 27.  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
5.2 The amendment is adopted by 50 votes in favour to 2, with 25 abstentions.
5.3 If there are no amendments to 18 C/PLEN/DR. 5 as amended, I put it to the vote.  {A vote was taken by show of hands)
18 C/PLEN/DR. 5 is adopted by 51 votes to 5, with 22 abstentions,
5.4 The delegate of Israel has the floor for an explanation of vote.
6. Mr. YAFO (Israel):  Thank you, Madam President, Israel voted against the adoption of this resolution because it  is entirely inspired by political considerations and has no relationship to the situation described in  the report of the Director-General. The Director-General was asked to assemble information in  omnibus resolution 10. 1 of the seventeenth session of the General Conference. This he has done  but, as we anticipated all along, this kind of objective reporting 1e not what our neighbours are  really interested in. They only wanted the resolution of the seventeenth session in order to build  on {t other resolutions more extreme, more aggressive, more obdurate and uncompromising, and  this has been achieved in the resolution now before us. They de not worry about where the super-  visors will come from and, incidentally, in the light of the amendment before you this morning,  what will become of the highjackers of Tunis airport? Where will the money come from, what will  be the terms of reference in regard to actual educational standards? All they are concerned with  is creating another whip with which to beat thé Israélis, That may be their concern and aim, but  does that help Unesco's work and aims? Is the Organization so helplers that it car do nothing to  place the réal interests of the Organization above the politically-vested interests of a certain group  of countries? Are we indeed prisoners of blind enmity and political exploitation? As for other  arguments, that of Israel's intention to enforce an alien way of life upon the peoples and the terri-  tories Incompatible with Arab traditions and culture, there is absolutely no basis for these alloga-  tions. The same laws covering education in Arab countries apply in the territories administered  by Israel. The same curricula, the same textbooks as approved by Unesco and thé same examin-  ation papers are to be found on both sldes of the cease fire lines. The same educational leadership  that conducted the educational systems in the past under Arab administrations continues to do eo  now. There is no Israeli intervention in the content of education or in the religious and cultural  life of the population, Madam President, there is no danger to Arab cultural identity in the terri-  tories. Indeed, in an atmosphere of co-operation and freedom, there is hope for peace. We do  not believe that exposure to freedom threatenc anybody of any culture. In voting against the pres-  ent resolution, we have voted for peace and understanding between Israel and the Arab peoples and  States. And also for Unesco's highest ideals. Thank you, Madam President.
7, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The delegate of the United States of Amerlca.
8. Mr. JONES (United States of America):  Thank you, Madam President. We would like to explain our vote, «The support of. the United  States for Unesco in its work for education, science, culture and communication is well known, as  well known as our conviction that the growing Intrusion of politics into its deliberations can only  hinder its achievements and contributions in these fields, The report of the Directér-General on  the situation of the national education and cultural life of peoples in the occupied Arab territories
47 is a commendable effort which enables us to understand the conditions in these areas better. It is  work well done, designed to give an objective assessment of the situation and not to provide con-  demnations. In contrast to this tone is the third preamhular paragraph of the draft resolution,  which states that the population in the occupied Arab territories are not onjoying their rights to  national educational and cultural life. However, a careful reading of the Director-General's re-  port indicates that the peoples involved do indeed enjoy these rights, which should continue to be  further developed and improved, This i8 hardly surprising. It 18 unfortunate, however, that the  resolution chose to make sweeping allegations rather than constructive suggestions,. We therefore  voted against this resolution. However our second and more serious objection is to the new opera-  tive paragraph, for this we feel far exceeds Unesco's mandate and raises issues beyond the com-  petence of this Organization, While we fully support the right to national and cultural life in the  occupled Arab territories, we belleve such rights will better be achieved by co-operation between  Unesco, the occupying authorities and the Arab peoples concerned, Thank you, Madam President.
9. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Egypt.  (hegrad! ye dyggan ) JeSall ot lens pail sedi yoy)  LUN Sage pur) DOCTOR | jay 11 WL SAUT KVSPATSOAFTTINENDIUR TIA [FW JPN à AIT 700  els pps ERFOCT ICR WN TEU PURI TIPS [1 W1 Bal pts 6 WTP PORTAL J Gi, 3 Leo  vigranally ane VEUT agelpad Tah Dd, 150 5 Sass jy Bled LDS) à 58) poplin
30 PINCUS BRIE TURN PR TAR ISIN TIFR. SUFRWRTIORPS 1] pl Le | IF) [VY ST  chalets bn Ÿ LU Vin locas od à glo + 11 /p1 A Beslan fle 5 3, Lead)  Lo Nas is Je Badly € wibySl pbs) o orb Bm ze pape Games SLAGS peg dei by Lew Y Wl  ARTE PY
(10.1) Mr. EL-WAKIL (Arab Republic of Egypt) (Translation from the Arabic):  Madam President, I should also like to explain my vote; we voted for the resolution because we be-  eve in the right of the Arab community and of our children to an upbringing which is in keeping with their  national aspirations, In their right to culturally authentic education, in their right to preserve their heri-  tage and their history and to secure their future as a nation. Moreover, our vote also reflects our faith in  Unesco's rôle of establishing peace in accordance withits mission to put anendtô colonialism and raclalism.
(10. 2) 1 should like to state here that the fnhabitants of the occupled territories are anxious about the fate  of their culture and about what will become of them, as was said in the report of the Director-General in  document 18 C/16. Furthermore, we did not vote for this resolution on political grounds but solely on na-  tional grounds on behalf of a community deprived of its natural right to receive a national education and to  retaln its authentic culture. Thank you, Madam President.
11. The PRESIDENT: .  Thank you. I give the floor to the Deputy Director-General.
12. Mr. FOBES (Deputy Director-General):  Madam President, in the absence of specific budgetary provisions for activities under this  resolution or of some other provision, such as an authorization to draw funds from the Working  Capital Fund on a provisional basis, the Director-General will establish a special account against  which to charge the costs necessary for carrying out this resolution. Pending his consultation with  the Executive Board in the spring, he will provisionally reserve up to $100, 000 from the budgets  for the education and cultural sectors of Unesco until he discovers how this special account can in  fact be provisioned. He assumes that, In consultation with the Executive Board, he will be able to  nuggest other means and sources of financing the activities foreseen under the resolution.  Draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 6
13.1 The PRESIDENT:  We now proceed to draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 6. If there sre no amendments, I put the  resolution to the vote,  {A vote was taken by show of hands)
13.2 The resolution is adopted by 57 votes to 2, with 22 abstentions.
13.3 The delegate of Japan has the floor.
14, Mr. IKEBE (Japan): ,  As representatives of a government which maintains friendly relations with the People's Re-  public of China, my delegation has the deepest sympathy with the intent of the draft resolution just  voted on. It is only the legal interpretation of paragraph 6 of the draft resolution which seems to  go beyond the competence of Unescu. Therefore it was with great regret that my delegation ab-  stained when the draft resolution was put to the vote. Thank you, Madam President.
15, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Albania.
16.1 M, SALLABENDA (Albanie). - .. 47  Madame la Présidente, la délégation de la République populaire d'Albanie a voté en favéur du  projet de résolution présenté par la délégation de la République populaire de Chine (18 C/PLEN/ -  DR.6). Nous sommes d'avis qu'il est intolérable et révoltant que des organisations internationales  non gouvernementales qui entretiennent des relations avec l'Unesco continuent à admettre en leur  sein des organismes ou éléments liés à Tchang Kat-chek, à la bande de Tafwan qui ne représente  rien, étant rejetée par le glorieux peuple chinois.
16. 2 La République populaire de Chine est un grand Etat socialiste. Elle est l'un des membres  fondateurs des Nations Unies. Elle est désormais représentée au Conseil exécutif de l'Unesco,  Quand la République populaire de Chine est devenue l'unique représentant légitime de la Chine ‘à  l'Unesco, cela a constitué un grand événement pour notre Organisation, La Chine marche en avant  et remporte chaque jour de grandes victoires ; elle est devenue un appui véritable pour les peuples  et les pays qui luttent pour la liberté, pour la sauvegarde de leur indépendance, contre les visées  des deux grandes puissances, Cette réalité de la Chine socialiste est reconnue par toute l'huma-  nité progressiste et par la grande majorité des Etats. Les plans des ennemis de la République  populaire de Chine pour ruiner ses droits légitimes ont échouô lamentablement, Aucun plan tendant  à faire reconnaître deux Chine - ou à mettre en parallèle la Chine et Tafwan - n'a réussi, Mais les  ennemis de la République populaire de Chine n'en poursuivent pas moins les efforts - condamnés à  l'avortement - qu'ils ont entrepris pour faire accepter le plan des deux Chine, et ces efforts trou-  vent un appui auprès de ces organisations internationales qui, bien qu'affiliées à l'Unesco, entres  tiennent des relations avec la clique vendue de Tafwan. L'attitude de ces organisations qui se sont  laissé entraîner et manipuler par les Etats-Unis d'Amérique doit prendre fin une fois pour toutes.  La délégation albanaise est d'avis que l'Unesço doit prendre toutes mesures utiles pour que ces  organisations mettent fin à leur attitude nuisible et appliquent au plus tôt la volonté de la majorité  écrasante des Etats en rompant tous les liens qu'elles maintiennent avec la clique de Tchang Kat-  chek. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
17. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Norway.
18, Mr, GARBC {Norway}: -  Thank you, Madam Preuident. Permit me to explain why the Norwegian delegation felt bound  to abstain on the vote just taken, Norway was one of the first countries to recognize the People's  Republic of China. As a consequence, Norway has always supported the claim that the People's  Republic of China should be lawfully seated as the representative of China in the United Nations  and its agencies, There is only one government representing China. The reason why the Norwegian  delegation nevertheless abstained from voting is that parts of the text may, in our view, infringe  upon the principle of organizational freedom which is constitutionally established in my country.  Thank you, Madam President.  Draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 7
19. The PRESIDENT:  We take up 18 C/PLEN/DF. 7. The delegate of Belgium has the floor.
20,1 M. VAN USSEL (Belgique). -  Madame la Présidente, c'est pour une motion d'ordre que j'ai demandé la parole : je voudrais  lancer un appel au distingué délégué de l'Union soviétique afin qu'il n'insisie pas pour faire adopter
12 projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 7 et je vais expliquer pourquoi,
20.2 Madame la Présidente, la délégation belge a pris connalssance avec Intérêt de ce projet de  résolution, qui a été introduit par l'Union soviétique et par quelques autres pays’et aux termes du-  quel il est recommandé au Directeur général de prendre les mesures appropriéés pour que l'Unesco  participe par des manifestations et activités spécifiques au trentième anniversaire de la victorie  des pays alliés à l'issue de la Seconde Guerre mondiale.
20.3 Permettez-moi tout d'abord de rendre hommagé aux sentiments généreux qui ont animé les  auteurs de ce projet, dont la Belgique partage l'émotion, puisqu'elle a été à deux reprises victime  d'une agression et que son territoire a été deux fois occupe par les forces ennemies.
20.4 Ma délégation entretient toutefois des doutes quant à l'opportunité de célébrer le trentième  anniversaire de la victéire des alliés en réponse à un simple appel lancé nous la forme d'un projet  de résolution, En effet, le gouvernement et le peuple belges orgenisent Chaque anñée, pour l'anni-  versaire de celté victoire, des manifestatfons dont la dignité et le recueillement sont à la mesure  des souffrances subles et encourues, Nous estimons donc qu'il ne‘conviënt pas de lancer aux Etats  membres un appel les’ivitant - je cite - "à commémorer avec ampleur et solennité' le trentième  anniversaire de ladite victoire, Nous ne voyons d'ailleurs pas ‘pourquot noûs devrions brusquement  décider que le trentième anniversaire de cet évênement sora éélébré;, ni pourquoi les auteurs du  texte de résolution n'avaient pas pris'il y a deux ans une initiative anslogue en vue de la célébration  du vingt-huitième anniversaire, De toute façon, les commémorations solennelles ayant un caïâc <'  tère plus ou moins universel s'effectuent en général lors du vingt-cinquièmé ou du cinquantième  anniversaire de l'événement à commémorer.
47 20,5 En outre, je me permets de faire remarquer aux distingués auteurs du projet de résolution  qu'en Belgique - et il en va sans doute de mème dans plusieurs pays européens - les cérémonies  commémèratives évoquent aussi bien la victoire de la Première Guerre mondiale que celle de la  Seconde,
20,6 Ma délégation considère enfin que, sl l'Unesco a le dévoir de servir la noble cause de ia paix,  une recommandation invitant le Directeur général à'"pfendré les mesures appropriées pour que  l'Unesco participe par des manifestations et activités spécifiques à l'anniversaire de cet événement  historique [la victoire]! ne saurait constituer une contribution très efficace à cette cause,
20.7 La Belgique, Madame la Présidente, a eu pendant dea siècles le périlleux et tragique hoh-  neur d'être le champ de bataille de l'Europe, C'est dono avec une voix autorisée qu'ellé exprime  ses réserves sur lé projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR.7. En ce qul concerne ce projet, je me’  permets d'ailleurs de faire remarquer que sa rédaction n'est ni complété ni appropriée. Nous  sommes ici à l'Unesco, organisation qui devrait, par définition, ‘s'attacher à préseñter'des textes  corrects; - Or on constate; en lisant le deuxième alinéa du préambule, qu'il n'y est question que de  la victoire des "nations de la coalition anti-hitlérienne" sur les forces du fascisme, ce qui donrie à  cet alinéa un caractère pour le moins incomplet, puisqu'on semble oublier les coalitions qui se  sont formées dans les autres parties du monde pour s'opposer à des visées impérialistes inadmis-  sibles. En outre, la coalition anti-hitlérienne n'a pas seulement vaincu le'fascisme, mais égale-  ment le nazisme : il s'agit là de faits historiques que pérsonne ne saurait oublier. La même re-  marque vaut pour le sixième alinéa du préambulé où il n'est question qué de l'hitlérisme. Eafin,  je mets en doute l'affirmation contenue dans le dernier alinéa du préambule, où les auteurs du pro-  jet semblent faire bon marché de la vérité historique. Ayant été moi-même ambassadeur en Indo-  nésie, je me rappelle que le début de la longue lutte menée par l'hérofque peuple indonésien pour  l'indépendance ne date pas de 1945, mais bien de l'année 1922, Je crois d'ailleurs que d'autres  nations n'ont pas dû attendre 1945 pour commencer leur campagne vers l'indépendance,
20.8 Je suis d'ailleurs fort surpris, Madame la Présidente, que les auteurs du 18 C/PLEN/DR. 7,  au lieu de songer à faire célébrer le trentième anniversaire de la fin de la Seconde Guerre Mondiale,  n'aient pas plutôt pris une autre initiative : celle de faire célébrer le treintième anniversaire des  Nations Unies. En 1975 l'ONU aura trente ans d'existence ; je crofé qu'il s'agit-là d'un événement  autrement important pour l'Unesco - je dis bien "pour l'Unesco" - que le trentième annivérsaire  de la fin de la Seconde Guerre mondiale. Je fais d'ailleurs rémarqüér'que c'est grâce à l'ONU, et  plus particuïfèrement à la Charte des Nations Unies que de très nombreux pays ont accédé à l'indé-  pendance, pays parmi lésquels on peut citer en premier lieu, ceux qui avalent été placés sous le  régime de 1a tutelle à la suite de la Première Guerre mondiale. D'autré part, les auteurs du pro-  jet de résolution - et je pense en premier leu à l'Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques -  auraient pu, à l'occasion de la célébration du trentième anniversaire des Nations Unies, rappeler  la célèbre résolution 1514 doat ils ont pris l'initiative en 1960,
20,9 C'est pour tou“ 8 ces raisons, Madame la Présidente, que je demande avec insistance que  les auteurs du proje« ..¢ résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 7 n'insistent pas pour faire adopter ce texte et  veuillent bien le retirer. Je vous remercie,
21. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 1 give the floor to the delegate of France.
22, M, MAILLARD (France), - A  Madame la Présidente, mon pays ayant été l'un de ceux qui ont le plus souffert dans sa chair  et son Ame des conséquences du dernier conflit mondial, nous n'éprouvons aucune gène à dire ici  les réserves que nous inspire le texte qui nous est soumis, Il s'agit de réserves de principe, Il  ne nous semble pas que l'Unesco,. organisation youée à la concorde et à 1a consclidation de la paix,  doive avoir pour objectif d'inciter les Etats membres à commémorer avec ampleur et solennité  - comme il eat dit dans le texte - des événements dont le caractère funeste et dramatique ne doit  subsister en la mémoire des hommes que pour les inciter à ne les reproduire jamairs, Tant de  morts et tant de souffrances, voire tant de tortures et de ruines, méritent le silenc': et la médita-  tion plus que la commémoration, Ils n'appellent pas non plus de la part de notre Organisation des  manifestations ou des activités spécifiques ; si l'Unesco en organisait dans lo cce prévent, ne  devrait-elle pas alors faire de même pour les anniversaires de beaucoup d'autres événements non  moins tragiques qui ont ensanglanté notre monde soit avant, soit - hélas - après 1945 ? Est-ce là  son rôle ? Et servirait-elle ainsi la concorde entre les peuples ? En fait, c'est tout cé que  l'Unesco a voulu, entrepris ot réalisé depuis vingt-huit ans qui manifeste, à notre avis, la volonté  de nos peuples de n'épargner aucun effort pour préserver les générations futures des fléaux de la  guerre, afin de rendre à ceux qui ont sacrifié leur vie pour la Mberté du monde l'hommage le plus  réel et le plus valable. Puisse cette oeuvre se poursuivre dans les domaines de compétence de  l'Unesco, grâce, notamment d'une action constante de cétte organisation en faveur de la liberté de  l'homme et des nations! C'est par là que l'Unesco répondra le mieux, croyons-nous, à la grande  attenté des victimes, à celle des morts et à celle des vivants qui cultivent leur mémoire, C'est  pour çes raisons, Madame la Présidente, que ma délégation tout en comprenant naturellement les  motifs qui ont inspiré les auteura du texte en question, s'associe à la délégation belge pour deman-  der.que ce texte ne soit pas mis aux voix. S')l l'était, ma déjägation ne pourrait malheureusement  émettre à son sujet qu'un vote négatif, Merci, Madame la Présidente.
23. The PRESIDENT: Lt 47  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of the Soviet Union, a
24.1 T-n A.C.IIHPAZHOB (Cons ConeTckux Counañnetnueckux Pocny6nux); ….  Bnaroaapn Bac, TOR. llpeacenarens. CHoxHne, WYBCTBA d6ypesant MôHs, K OFrHa pagaanTca ro-  Roca, NOA06HMO TONLKO YTO yCAHMAaHHMM BCOMH HAMH 3AOCh, MH6, KaK H MIOrHM 3IA6Ch CHAS MHM  AenerataM, NpUIWAOCH Y4acTBOBATH BO BTOPOH MHPOBOA POAHE. HOT HEOGXOAHMOOTH MHOTO FOBOPHTb,  KaxoH Grina ara BoRiHa, IaMATL ‘O TOX 6EOKOHOYHNX CTPAAGHHAX H MY“ÔHHAX; KoTOpMe 6k/1H CBAIA-  HE © STOÏ HO6sIBANOÂ B HCTOPHK YONOBOU6CTRA TPAareAHeN Bcex Andeoñ 36MHOTO mapa, He MOXET
6HTB oGofinena Hamel Opranxsauxeñ, Koropan NPHIBAHA JAHHMATECH lYMAHHTAPHHMH BONPOCANH -_  BONpOCAMH, KOTOPHO ABAADTCH, KAK MHO KAKGTOA, AY“TON NaMATLY TOM, Kro ôrAa1 cBOD XxH3HB  aa To, 4ToGH MSI COTOAHA 3A6GH MOT/IH pemaTh CTOR: A8 nepeA HaMu npobaens, 5 ‘He xouy TOBÔpHuTE  O TOM, 4YTO, MOXOT ÔMTb, FMOCON, KOTOPHH BHOTYNAA OT HMOHH BO/brHH, HAXOAHNCA B TOT MOpHOA  B HHaoHesHn H He HCNBTAA TOTO, YTO OHAOT xaxanñ Genbrañoxufi rpaxaanxH, naxoausimiiics ne-  PHOA OKKyNauHH PANHCTCKHM BepMaxToM, KOTOpHR npomes ÔTHEM H mevoM hid Teppuropuh Benbrun.  fl He Gyay kacaTbCA MOTHBOB, KOTOPEMH ABHXUMH Apyrne DuoTyrai ie npôr}e. 5 nacTtanBa… Ha  TOM, uTO6H Hama peaoapuus Gba paccMOTpeHa H MocTapneHa HA rOJOCOBAHHE.
24.2 fl Xotes Ou Takxe HANOMHHTH npucy TeTEY DIUM, uTo caMa Hama Opranisauna poaHnacb, Kax  H ‘Oprannaaiux O6%exunennsx Hau-vñ, B pesÿnbtate noGeAs aHTHIHT/I6 pOBCKOR xoashuxH, Boñee To-  ro, MHe Heÿyno6Ho HACTOABKO KOMMOTENTHOK AYAHTOPHH pacckäsbIBATB ASTANH COSAAHHA OpranwaauwH  OG3Te6AHHOHHBX Hauxñ, Kak H Bceñ AHTHTHTAOPOBCKOË | KOA/IHUHH B XOXG BTOPpOÏ MHpOBOÏ BOñHH, YTO H  npeñonpeaenn0, Geccnopuo, ycnex sroH BOHHB. Maxare © Tex KONOCCANBHEX XOpTEAX, O TEX ‘50  MHANHOHAX, KOTOPHE YINH H3 XH3HH, NaMALb O HHX BCOrAa OH AA, ecTh H GYAÈT CBAMEHHON AN KaX-  AOro YeNoBOXa, B TOM YHC/O H AAA TeX, KTO COrOJHA MOXET CHA@TL B 9TOM 3ane H paccyxaarh O TOM,  HACKOAbKO LGNECO0ÔpasHO HAL HOIONOCOOGpaIHO OTM@YATL FOROBIIHHY STOTO COOLITHA.
24.3 Kaxzpouy 4CHO,. noyeMy COBROTÈKHH Copa H Bech COLHANHOTHYECKHÉ Narops H ue pan rocy-  RApoTB, Takux, kax Huausa, Banrsanem, Ilaxucran, Eruner BHEC/H ato NPeAANOXEHHE. À y6eoxaeH  rayGoko, 4TO KAXALIH YECTHLIR Ye/I0BeK, ec/IH BH ero CrpocHTe, rOTC3 MH OH MOYTHTH NAMATH TeX,  KTO ymen M3 XH3HH BO BpêM#H BTopoñt MHpOBoR BOM, KoHeuHo, CKaxeT "na". # Mor 61 ome MHO-  roe ¢KasaTs, A OY6Ub BÔNHYDCb, À HHKOFAà TAK HO BOTHOBANCH 3a MHOTHE ros cBoeit paboTH B  MexAyHaponHsx OpraHHI3AUHAX, Sl BOJHYDCL HMEHHO noToMy, YTO TAYÉOKHM ockop6nennem ANA Moe-  ro Hâpora, An BCeX TeX, KTO ‘nepe xua 9TO TParHyecKoe B HCTOPHK Y8NOBOUOCTBà o6¢TosTeNsCTBO,  MoxeT GHITb BOOGmE noctaHoaka BONPpOCA O TOM, OTM@YATE H/IH HE OTHÔYATL FONOBIMHHY nobenst,  Mue xaxeTcs, NTO BO BCEX penurHax, BO BCeX CTpaHax If y Bcex Hapoxos Bcerga Guna caaTHHOÂ STa  naMs Th ymeamux. Tem 6ônee, ymeAmHX H3 XH3HH B p@sYÿ/BTAT® TOro, YTO OHH OTAA/H CC BEñWKOMY  Aeny 6ops6u sa CBOTAHO YASH IyMaHH3Ma, KyNBTYPpSI, HayKH H NDPOCB@MEHHA, MOXAYHAPOAHOFO COT-  PyaHnuWecTBa.
24.4 Yemy xe BH Gynere YYHTb CBOHX sete, 'yBaxaeMrifi npeacTapuTenb BerbrHH, npeacTapuTeNb  ®patlu, ecnH BH HM He pacckaxete O TOM, YTO OHH COIOAHA MOTYT yuHThCA, noToMy YTO YepHoe  obnako ¢amuama Hapa Tol xe BerrrHeñ H bpanuteñ Gs1/10 paccesHO LHEHOR KpOB T6X XépTB, O NaMa~-  TH KOTOPHX H TOBOPHT Hama pesonmuua? KomyHCTBEHHO 3BYYHT COñVAC 110608 HHOO COOÔpaxeHHe,  KaKO® 61 3RGCL HK 6b1/10 BHICKA3AHO, H SAADNOHHE O TOM, YTO KTO-TO He GyaeT TONOCOBATh, BHAHBA-  eT, MHE KAXeTCH, TOALKO YYBCTBO VONLMOTO YAHBHOHHA, TOPEUX 38 TO, “TO NOAH MOTYT 6HTb Tax  H@6TarorapHs, 51 KoHYHA. Braronapp pac.
(24. ‘1 ‘Mr. PIRADOV (Union of Soviet Soctalist Republics) (Translation from'the Russian):  , Thank you, Madam President. When I hear opinions expressed like those all of us present have just  ‘heard, I'am seized by a confusion of feeling. It was my lot, liké that of many delegates sifting here, to  take part in the Second World War. ‘There is no need to sdy much about what kind of war it was, The  memory of those endless griferings and tortures associated with that tragedy unprecedented in the history  of mankind, which affected all the peoples of the world, cannot be ignored by our Organization, whose pur-  pose La to concern itself with humanitarian matters, matters which I feel are the best memorial to those  who gave their llyes go that we today can discuss the problems in tront of us. I do not wish to say anything  about the fact that perhaps the’ Ambassador who spoke oh behalf’ bt Belgium’ was, ‘at that time, ‘in Indonesia  and did not expérience what every Belgian citizen knows who experlenced dccupatlon by the fascist Wehrmacht  “which | passéd with firé and sword through the territory of Belgium. 1 will not concern myself with the mo-  tives of the 'othérs who have spoken against. I insist that our resolution be considered and put to the vote,
(24. 2) 1 should also, like to remind those present that our very Organization came into being, like the United  Nations itself, as a result of the victory of the anti- -Hitler coalition. Beyond that, I would feel 111 at ease  recounting to such a knowledgeable gathering the details of how the United Nations was founded vr all that  the whole antl-Hitlerite coalition did during the Second World War, which was unquestionably the deler-  mining factor in bringing that war to a successful conclusion. The memory of those colossal sacrifices,  of those fifty miilion people who died, the memory of these always has been, is and will be gacred for  every man, including those who can now sit in this room and discuss how appropriate or Inappropriate  it 1s to mark the anniversary of this event.
(24. 3) its clear to everyone why the Soviet Union, the entire soclalist erqup. of countries’ end à whole  series of States such as India, Bangladesh, Pakistan and Egypt introduced this ‘proposal, iam deeply con-  vinced that every honqurable man, if asked whether he were ready to celebrate the memory of those who  died during the Second World War, of course would answer ' 'yes', | could say much more yet; 1 am very  upset and 1 have never been so upset in all the years that | have been working in international organizations.
1 am upset precisely because’ the very fact that the question has been ralsed whether the anniversary of  victory should be celebrated or not can be seen as a deep ingult to my nation and to all those who endured  this tragic event in the history of mankind. { think that in all religions, all countries and all peoples re-
47 inembrance of the dead has always been a sacred thing. This is all the more true of those who died be-  cause they laid down their lives in the great cause of the struggle for the radiant ideas of humanism, scl-  ence and education and international co-operation.
(24.4) What will you teach ; your ‘children, disttngulehed ‘répresentatives of Belgiim and Frante, If you do  ‘not tell themi that they can stidy’ today becausé the dark cloud of fascism, which hung ‘dver Belglum and  France alike, wda dispersed by the precious blodd ‘of those sacrifices of whose commémoration cur resol-  ution speaks? Any other view whatéver expressed here now sounds hypocritical, and the idec that some-  one will not vote arouses, I think, only a feeling of great astonishment, and bitterness at the fact that peo-  ple can be so ungrateful. That is all, Thank you.
25. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of the United Kingdom.
26. Mt. NORWOOD ‘(United Kingdom):  , Thank you, Madam President. Iam tempted Je reply to the previous speaker that I shall teach  my children that war is pot a religion. My delegatfon is glad to join ‘France and Belglum in hoping  that this resolution will not be put to the vote. En if it 1s, we will not voté for it because we do not  accept that it would sérve any useful purpose to inake ah event of such an ‘anniversary. We see no  reason why the thirtieth anniversary of World War II should be especially singled out for recogni-  tion. Surely it 1s better to look forward rather than backwards, as this Conference has agreed’ to  do in the case of International Women's Year in 1975, Can we not now put the 1940s'very firmly  behind us?’ I should like to associate my delegation with what the delegate from Belgium has sald,  that Unesco has a positive and constructive rôle to play. The attainment of the objectives which we  all share will not be hastened by the passing of a draft resolution such as the one we are now dis-  cussing. Thani you, Madam President.
27. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of the United States.
28. Mr. JONES (United States of America):  ‘Thank you, Madam President. The United States shares the views previously expressed today  by my distinguished colleagues from Belgium, France and the United’ Kingdom, We understand the  emotions of the proponents of this draft resolution, While the people | of the United Stales fought and  suffered in the tragic conflict under discussion, we can see little constructive purpose in commem-  orating the end of that war {n the language or in the manner proposed in this resolution, and we  would urge that the proponents not insist on a vote, Should it be voted, we would oppose it. We  would note that the Second World War was due in large part to the fact that the bitterness of the  peoples who fought in the First World War of 1914-1918 was kept alive. In Unesco, as elsewhere  in the Unitéd Nations system, we believe that we should took forward and seek those things which  call to us and not look backward to those things which have divided us. We must teach our children,  Madam President, that peace is not the waging of war by other means. Therefore, let us look for-  ward to a world of peace, harmony and brotherhood, let us praise the future and not belabour the  past. Thank you, Madam President.
29. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Poland.
30. T-H U.BHINHEBCKHH (Monema):  Cnacx6o, r-xa IlpeacexaTe/rb, fl xouy OT HMOHH MOBO MNpapHT@1bCTHA FOPAYO NOANGPKATL 3TOT  NpoeKT Pe5>0NPUHH He TONBKO KaK COABTOP ITOFO MpoeKTa. Sl BHCTYMNAD 3//8Cb KAK ANPHACTABHTO/b  CTpaHb, KOTOPAA ABHAACh NOpBOR xeprBofi rHTAeponckoro Qauxaua. B psayAbtate 3TOR Boñne Ionn-  ma MOTEPANS Gonee WECTH MHANHOHOB YÔHTHX H 3AMYVCHHEIX. HOT nonsckoil COEMBH, KOTOPAA He MOTE-  psina 651 Koro-To 6nw3koro. Passe MOXHO 06 3YOM 3A6UTb. TlO-MOCMy NPHHATHE 9TOR pesonnuux, a  Takxe NpasAHOBaHHE 30-H PONOBIHHII OKOHYAHHA BORHEI ~ 3TO HO TONBKO OTABHHO AOJJTA TEM, KTO NO-  rub B 3TOR BOñHE. TO NO-MOOMy caMas BAXHIH MOPANBHAN HAYK@ ANA XIBMX, OCOÉGHHO ANS MONOAG-  XH, ANA KOTOPpoH 910 ÿx© GaKTH HCTOPHH. Budpa B 9TOM 33/10 FOBOPHAOCb MHOTO © CAYXÉO uenone-  Ky, 0 3ajauax Hamel OpraHxæaunx Ha cayx6e yenopexa. Ho kaxHe 3anauH MOryT GHTb Gone BAXHH-  MH Ha cnyx6e wencsexa, “em Gops6a 3a MHp, 2a MOXAYHAPoOAHYN Ge3onacHo¢ Th HapoAop? Ho-mMoeuy,  npasaAHOBaHKE, KOTOPOe Mb XOTHM NPOBECTH B CBAI3H C ITO pesonouxteH, TOKE CAYXHT YKDOIUVICHHD  Apy x61 MOXAY HAPOAAMH B CBAIH C NPHNOMHHAHKEM BCEX 3THX GAKTOB, KOTOPHE HMEO/H MOCTO
30 ner Tomy HazaA, BOT nouemy Mu GyAOM rONOCOBATb 2a STY PpesONDuMIO H NPH3LIBAOM TAKXS Apy-  rHX K FONOCOBAHHD BMOCTE C HaMH. CnacHÉo, r-xa lpenceaarens.
(30) Mr. WISNIEWSK! (Poland) (Transiat{on from the Russian):  Thank you, Madam Président. On Lehalf of my government, I wish to give wholehearted support to  this draft resolution, not merely as co-author of this draft. l'Am'epealdng hers as the representative of  a country which waa the first sacrifice of Hitler{té fagefsm. .1g a result of this war, Poland lost more  than six million dead and tortured, There ls not one Polish fimily which did rot lose some closé relation.  te lt really possible to forget this? In my opinion, adopting tils resolution and also celebrating the thirti-  eth anhiversary of the ending of the war fe not only to give tht se who périshéd in this wär their due. It is,
1 fee); à highly important moral lesson for the ving, “especially for young piople for whom thls lt already  part of history. ‘esterday, In thig room, much was sald about sérvice to mankind and about our Organza-  tlonts tasks IN mankind'a écrvice.’ But what tagks can be more fmportant {n the service of mankind than  the struggle for peace and the international security of nations? In fy opinion thé celebration which we  wish to conduct In connexion with this resolution also derves to cement friendship between peoplés as they  rembmber all those events which téok place 30 years ago. This té why we shall vote for this resolution  and Invite others as well to vote with us, Thank you, Madam President,
31, The PRESIDENT: : ’ 47  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Czechoslovakia,’ '
32, M. GREGUS (Tchécoslovaqüié). - Lo oo CL  "Madame la Présidente, la Tchécoslovaquie est l'un des coauteurs du projet de résolution 18 C/  PLEN/DR. 7. Je dois dire que cela fera trente ans en 1975 que la Tchécoslovaquie a été libérée  par les soldats de l'armée rouge. C'est au jour anniversaire de cette libération qu'est célébrée  chaque année la fête nationale de la Tchécoslovaquie, Tout le:monde sait que notré pays a été une  des premidres victimes du fascisme. La victoire de 1945 nous'a apporté la liberté nationale et a  marqué pour nous, comme pour beaucoup d'autres peuples du monde, le début d'unë fouvellé étape  caractérisée par la développément des libertés sociales et culturelles et par des progrès dans tous  les domaines, Tout le monde sait ce que sigait{e la victoire des nations sur le fascisme, Chacun  saît ce que cela signifie pour le monde, pour le développement et pour l'avenir du monde Je  pense, Madame la Présidente, que l'Unesco doit rendre hommage à la mémoire de ceux qui ont  sacrifié leur vie pour la liberté, pour l'indépendance et pour le progrès des nations, La fin de  cette guerre terrible, ia plus destructrice et la plus ‘sanglante de touta l'histoire de l'humanité,  mérite d'être commémorée par des manifestations et activités spécifiques destinées à faire com-  prendre à tout le monde - notamment à toute la jeunesse - que le racisme et le fascigme sont les  max les plus dangereux qui'aolent pour l'Humanité, Jè suis sûr que la plupart des Etats membres  de l'Unesco appuleront le projet de résolution en question, Je vous remercie, Madame la Pré-  sidente, ’
33. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Byelorussia,
34.1 F-u B.H.TTO3HAK (Benopycckan Coserckas CounarmeTtnueckan Pecnybauka): .  Ton. lipeacenarens, Benppycckaa Coserckaa CouHanycTHyeckas Pecny6HKka AB/At un Loon  TOPOM APOSKTA pesonouux 18C/AEN/DR.T 06 yyvacTHn DHECKO B npasmHoBaHHH 30-H rOXOBMHHEI  OKOHYAHHH BTOPpoñ MHPpOBOñ BOñHE. H Mel NPH3HBAOM neneraros l'enoparbHoñ KOHPOpeHUHH Noage p=  XAaTb 3TOT APOAKT. 3RECL HOT HEOOXOAHMOCTH AOKA3HIBATh, NTO BTOPAH MHPOBAZ BOñHA 6rwna caMoñ  paspymntenbHoH H CaMOH KPOBOINPO/NHTHOR BOAHOM B HCTOPHH YesoBeyectTra. OHa nNpHHecAa HapoaaM  HEHCHHC/IHMEIE XEPpTBH H PA3pPymeHus.
34.2 B npomnoft BoHHe THT/EPOBCKHE 3AXBATYMKH pasrpa0H1H HAH yHuutoxuan B Besnopyccun Gonee  MOJOBHHE! HALHOHA/NBHOTO 6OraTCTBa, HO CAMOÏ TaXenofi yrpaToft 6h/H NOAH, VO/IOBOYOCKHE XHIHH.  B 6ops6e c HeueuKkOo- PaAUHOTCKHMM 3aKBATYHKAMH noribno 2.300.000 7orñoBek, TO 6CTb B Gopnbe ¢  damnamom MNOrK6 kaxAbñH MeTBEPpTHÀ XHTeNb Pecnybmiku, T'HT/AOpoBCKHE 3aAXBATUHKH COXI/K H pas-  pyaHan B BeropyccHH pce ropona, Gonee 9.000 CONECKEX HACENEHHEX MYHKTOB, GLAM COXXEHH LE-  NHKOM, CO BCEMH XHT@AMH, 186 nepeBeHb, TO ec1b HH OAHH XHTE/b He yuesesn. B HX xe HOMAX OK-  KynaHTH CXHFA/H ADACH, o6auBas AOMA KepOCHHOM - BOT YOTpaHRAa/H KakHe noxapxHma., Ceroasa  STHX 186 NepeBeHb HET HY KapTe. 5 OYeHb BOMyDCb, BHCTYNas cefivac, MOTOMY YTO 4 YYaCTHHK  BOHHtI, H MHE AO TA/VIDIHHAUHÉ cefiyac BOT npeAcTapnsdeTca, A OMyMAaN 3anax, Topentift aanax yeno-  BEYOCKHX TO.
34.3. PagBe MOXHO GH TH pABHOAYMHEM, O6CYXAAA STOT NPOEKT pesolNDUHH, Pa3BG MOXHO paBHOAyIm-  HO SAHB/ATb, YTO Heyenecoobpasko ero NpHHHMATH, KaK 06 JTOM CKA3ANH aenerath Bensruu, Dpan-  UHH, CoeanneHHoro Koponescrsa, CoeaHHeHHHX IITATOB AMEFAKH? MHe KaxeTCA, YTO He NPHHATL  TaKyD pésonDuUHD = 9TO SHAYHT MOCTYNHTE KOMYHCTBEHHO, 3TO 3HAYHMT JAÔLITL NAMATH MOFHÔEUX,
3TO 3HAYUHT He yBaXaTb /i0AeH, KOTOPHE OTA8/H CAMOE AOporoe, YTO OsipaeT y YenoneKka - CBOD  XH3Hb, 3a TO, YTOÔLI MNOKONOHHA, GYAYMHO MOKONGHHA XHAH B cyacThe. H NOSTOMY s oGpamawch x  AO/6raTaM ¢ POPAUHM NPH3N BOM NOAAEPXATb 9TY Pe30/JLUHI0, OHA HMO6T OrpoMKHOO 3HAUelHe B BOO-  NUTAHHH MONIOAG XH, O YOM 3AGCL, KCTATH, NHOrHe aAenerarTe B peuax Ha FeHeparbHoH xoHPepoHUHH,  B KOMHCCHAX TOBOPIUIH , MPHIBTA/H K TOMY, UTOOM YCH/IHNTH BOCNHTAHHO MONOAOXH B AyXe BaaHMOnNoO-  HHMAHHH, Apyx6i HapoaoB, Ho xax Xe MOHHMATb, KOraa, C OAHOR CTOPOHEI, HIPH3LIBAT BOCNHTHBATL  MOJIOfi@ Xb B AYXO BIAHMONOHHMAHHH, a, O APYIOft, 38XB/ANT, YTO Helyenecoobpa3Ho NpHHHMATL Ta-  KyD pe301nuin, GTO, Tornofa, 3BYHUHT nHUoOMepHeM. H nosroumy Aensrauna Besonycckoft CCP, sii-  paxax Born» GonopyccKkoro Hapoaa, npasnTenscTsa Benopycckoft CCP HacTaHBaeT Ha NpHHATHH STOR  PpesormuHH, KOTOPAN HMEeT HCK/DYHTO/LHO BAXHOO 3HaueHHe Kak npakthyeckuit mar IOHECKO, kak:  MNpaxTHY6CKO9 MepPONpHA THE, HAMPAB/OHHO® HA OCYMEOCTBNOHHE NYHKTA 1 Ycrasa Hameft OprannsaunH.  Bnaroaapx Bac, Top. llpeaceaarens.
(34.1) Mr. POZNIAK (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic) (Translation from the Russian):  Madam Préaldent, the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic is a ‘co-author of draft resolution
18 C/PLEN/DR. 7 concerning Unesco's participation in the celébration‘of the thirtieth anniversary of the  ending of the Second World War. - And we invité the delegates to the General Conference to support this  draft. There is no need to prove here that the Second World War was the most destructive and the most  blocdy war in the history of mankind. It caused nations untold sacrifices and déttruction.
(34.2) In the last war, the Hitlerite {fhvaders plundered or destroyed in Byelorussia more than half the  natfon's wealth but the heaviest loss was in people, in human lives. Inthe struggle withthe German fasciat  invaders, 2,300,000 people perished, which métñs to say that In the fight against faséism, one in every  four of the populdtion of the Republic died. ‘The Hitlerite' invaders burned and destroyed Ail the towns in  Byelorussia, and over 9, 000 Inhabited country localities; 186 villages were completely burned déwn with  all their inhabitants, which means to say that not one inhabitant remained alive The occupying forces  burned people in thelr own homes after soaking the houses with paraffin, so thal after thé fires ‘dled down  nothing was left. Today, these 186 villages aré no longer on the map. 1am very moved as I spuak now  because | was a participant In the war and I can see it now like a nightmare and can smell the smell, the  burnt smell of human flesh,
47 (34.3) Is it possible to keep calm as we discuss this draft resolution, and fa it possible to state quite |  calmly that St is not appropriate to adopt it, as the delegates of Belgium, France, the United Kingdom and  the United states have sald? I feel that not to adopt such a resolution is to act hypocritically, it is to for-  get the memory of those who perished, it Is not to honour the people who gave the most precious thing a  man has, his life, so that generations, future generations, could live iu happiness. For this reason l appeal  most strongly to the delegates to support this resolution. It has enormous importance in the education of  young people, about whom, by the way, many delegates have spoken here in statements at the General Con-  ference and in the Commissions, calling for greater efforts to be made In educating young people In the  spirit of mutual understanding and friendship among nations. But te it comprehensible when on the one  hand, they call for young people to be educatid in a spirit of mutual understanding, and then, oa the other,  say that it is Inappropriate to adopt such a resolution? This, gentlemen, sounds like hypocrisy. For this  reason the delegation of the Byelorussian SSR, expressing the will of the Byelorussian people and the  Government of the Byelorussian SSR, insists that this résolution be adopted since it has an exceptionally  great importance as a practical step by Unesco, as a practical measure directed to the implementation of  Article 1 of the Constitution of our Organization. Thank you, Madam President.
35. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Portugal.
36, M. COIMBRA MARTINS (Portugal). - ‘ .  _ ,. Madame la Présidente, la délégation du Portugal comprend et apprécie hautement le sentiment  qui est à l'origine du projet de résolution dont nous discutons en ce moment. Malheureusement,  pour nous Portugais, ‘la ruine d'Hitler et de Mussolini n'a pas signifié la fin du fascisme, Les  forces démocratiques au Portugal étaient prêtes à ce moment-là, mais les circonstances ont fait  qu'elles n'ont pas eu l'opportunité d'entrer en action et de prendre le pouvoir. Les uns et les  autres - je dis bien "les uns et les autres" - se sont mis d'accord pour laisser subsister le fas-  cisme au Portugal, croyant peut-être que cela favoriserait l'équilibre du monde, C'était faire  bon marché des souffrances du peuple portugais. Le fait que l'abcès n'ait pas été percé en 1945  au Portugal et que les manifestants de la victoire aient, chez nous, trouvé fermées et silencieuses  les portes des ambassades a déterminé la ‘survie malheureuse du régime obscurantiste de Salazar,  et a déterminé aussi l'éclosion et la durée exceptionnelle de la guerre coloniale dans laquelle s'est  empêtré le fascisme portugais, Pour nous, la fin de la nuit n'a pas été la fin de la guerre, mais  l'aube du 25 avril 1974. En 1918, alors que le régimé au Portugal était celui de la première répu-  blique démocratique, les troupes portugaises ont défilé de plein droit sur les Champs-Elysées pour  aller passer sous l'Arc de Triomphe. Mais en 1945, le jour de la victoire, ceux qui se rangeaient  chez nous parmi les amis les plus décidés de la Grande-Bretagne ou de l'Union soviétique ont de  nouveau été persécutés ou arrètés. C'est pourquoi, bién que nous apprécions hautement les senti-  ments dont s'inspire le projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 7, nous ne pourrons, s'il est mis aux  voix, que nous abstenir.
37. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Yugoslavia.
38.1 M. JOVANOVIC (Yougoslavie). -  Madame la Présidente, je serai très bref, Je parlerai à la fois en tant que cosignataire du  projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 7 et en tant qu'ancien combattant dans l'armée populaire ibé-  ratrice de la Yougoslavie placée sous le commandement du maréchal Tito, Comme vous le savez  tous, Mesdames et Messieurs, mon peuple a énormément souffert pendant la Deuxième Guerre  mondiale. Nous avons perdu dans cette guerre acharnée 15 % de notre population. En signant le  texte, actuellement scumis à l'approbation de la Conférence générale, la délégation yougoslave  était persuadée que tous les membres de la coalition anti-hitlérienne le ratifieraient. Dans la  science historique cette coalition est dite "anti-hitlérienne' pour des raisons simples : parce que  l'Allemagne hitiérienne était la plus importante dea forces agressives de divers pays, au nombre  desquels figuraient notamment le Japon militariste et l'Italie fasciste, Mais j'ai malheuréusement  appris ce matin que certains membres de la coalition anti-hitlérienne trouvent ce texte inopportun.
38.2 Je voudrais faire observer, Madarne la Présidente, que nous avons prévu une célébration du  trentième anniversaire de notre Organisation, qui est née à la suite de la victoire remportée lors  de la Déuxième Guerre Mondiale par lcs forces anti-hitlériennes, par les forces allfées ; or, sl  nous célébrons le trentitme anniversaire de notre Organisation, il est normal, il est logique, de  commémorer én même temps le trentième anniversaire de cette grande guerre,
38.3 En ce qui concerne le deuxième considérant du projet de résolution, je serais prêt, compte  tenu de ce qui a été dit par M. l'ambassadeur Van Ussel, délégué de la Belgique, à y faire men-  tion, non seulement du ‘fascisme’, mais aussi du "nazisme", Mais, pour ce qui est des tribula-  tions qu'ont connues divers pays répartis à travers le monde, 11 y a une vérité à dire : c'est que  la grande décolonisation a été la conséquence directe de la victoire remportée par les alliés lors  de la Deuxième Guerre Mondiale ; elle a commencé avec la libération de l'Inde, du Pakistan, et  de divers autres pays.
38.4 Telles sont, Madame la Présidente, les raisons par lesquelles, au nom de mon pays, je  demande à toutes les délégations présentes de voter en faveur du projet de résolution en question.  Je vous remercie.
39. The PRESIDENT:  Tnank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Cuba.
(40.1) Mr. LE RIVEREND (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Madam President. During that great and tragic conflagration to which we are referring,  Cuba of course had few victims; but we can assure you that the Cuban people devoted itself body and soul  to the domestic and international struggle against Nazism, That is why we have asked to speak and also  because we feel that those who are opposed to the draft resolution which is before us are committing a  fundamental error. They believe that an attempt is being made to foment hatred, and to reopen wounds  that have scarcely healed after so many years. It has also been thought that an effort was being made to  stress the malignant aspects of those circumstances, but it is forgotten that what is being celebrated, what  it is intended to commemorate, is the triumph of democracy, the triumph of the highest ideals of the peo-  ples, just as any country, on the domestic level and regardless of any International consideration, cele-  brates the great national commemorations of occasions when its own people triumphed against {ts historical  enemies, sometimes, as is natural, in the midst of great tragedies, although those tragedies were never  so great as the tragedy of the war unleashed by Nazism.
(40.2) Furthermore, we overlook the fact that future generations will alwaye have a quéation to put lo us.  And that question will not have to do with something forgotten but with a memory. ‘They will ask us: What  is Nazism? Why did it unleash that war? Why were go many millions of men, women and children killed,  so many homes and artistic monuments destroyed? It will be necessary to explain to them why all that  took place. The sam? racist and warlike ideas of that lime are reappearing and it is good to face up to  them for the sake of the new generations. The distinguished delegate of Portugal said something to this  effect a few minutes ago when he mentioned that his country had been subject to a dictatorship of this kind  until the recent movement towards the restoration of dernocracy. And for that matter, what about our own  statements on the current situation In South Africa and Southern Rhodesia? But this fs not the point; the  point ls to prevent and restrain that ideology, which has not disappeared and which 1e trying to become  powerful again, from interfering with the attainment of Unesco's high objectives. Forgetfulness is good,  even necessary; but to look to the future is also necessary, and for that very reason we must remember  the past.
(40.3) In any case, no one - Cuba least of all - wishes to use this celebration to stir up hatred against any  people, or against any particular individual, but against a whole system that brought a great disaster upon  the world. Thank you, Madam Président.
41. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 1 give the floor to the delegate of Guinea,
42.1 M, CAMARA (Guinée). -  Madame la Présidente, les déclarations que nous avons entendues depuis ce matin montrent  clairement que les délégués ici présents n'ont pas tous 1a même conception de l'histoire, Nous .  estimons tous que nous devons nous occuper tout particulièrement de l'avenir ; et tous les peuples  cherchent, je crois, à construire un avenir meilleur. Mais ce n'est pas là une raison pour oublier  le passé. Le passé et lé présent nous sont utiles pour construire l'avenir. La Guinée en tant que  nation n'a pas participé à la Deuxième Guerre mondiale, mais les Guinéens ont participé à la  guerre dans ce qu'on à appelé ironiquement les "troupes de tirailleurs sénégalais". Ils ont com-  battu partout en Europe, ils ont combattu dans le Pacifique et, soit dit en passant, on he trouve  nullé part un monument ou une plaque rappelant leur participation au grand sacrifice de l'humanité  progréssiste. Mais la Deuxième Guerre mondiale, c'était aussi pour nous les contradictions entre
47 les systèmes de domination, c'était la fin des empires coloniaux, la fih de l'empire colonial britan-  nique, de l'empire français, plus'tard de l'empire belge, Quand nous pañticipions au grand com-  bat, on nous avait dit que nous luttions aussi pour la liberté et 1'indépendarice. Aussi pensons-nous  que la Deuxième Guerre mondiale représente pour rios peuples un moment très important de leur  histoire, Si nous avons lutté contre le fascisme et le nazisme, nous avoris aussi liitté pour l'indé-  pendance de nos pays, Après la Deuxième Guerre mondiale, les Nations Unies ont été créées. De  nouvelles constitutions pnt'été élaborées par de grandes puissances et nous ont donné une certaine  Uberté. Mais ce qui est sorti de la Deuxième Guerre mondiale a permis au peuple indochinois,  aux peuples de 1'Inde, du Pakistan, et de 1'Afrique de ge libérer parce que cette guerre avait affai-  bli le capitalisme et les puissances colonfalistes.
42,2 - Telles sont les raisons pour lesquelles nous pensons que la résolution à l'étude devrait être  adoptée par toutes les délégations ici rassemblées : afin que l'histoire soit enseignée de façon  juste et afin que la Deuxième Guerre mondiale soit située dans sa vraie perspective. Nous ne com-  prenons pas ceux qui veulent s'opposer à cetté résolution, Nous n'entendons nullement; en l'ap-  prouvant, prendre une revanche sur certains pays, dont nous apprécions à certains égards la nou-  velle politique, qui s'appuie sur des forces socialistes, sur des forces progréssistes ; nous vou-  drions simplement donner A l'histoire son véritable sens. C'est pourquoi ma délégation invite tout  particulièrement les Etats ici représentés, et notamment lcs Etats africeins, à apporter leur sou-  tien à cette résolution qui a été présentée conjéintement par les pays socialistes et par quelques  pays d'Asie et d'Afrique, Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente.
43. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of the Ukraine.
44.1 I'-1 B.A.KPABEII (Ykpaunckas CopoTcKkaa Counarnnornueckan Pecny65nka):  Braronapp Bac, TOB. FHipeacexaTernb. Y rocnoa aeneratos BorbruH, Spanuux, Bernuko6pHTaHHH  H CoeautexHsx I TATOR AMOpHKH - A HasBa/l 3TH rOCYAAPCTBA B TAKOM MOPpHAKE TONLKO NOTOMY, YTO  OHH HM@HHO B 3TOM MOPpAAKE BHOTYTIHAH Cefuac Ha naeHyMe KoHdepeHuHH, - NpoeKT pesoboinxH,  conepzamnñcs B AOxyMenre 18 C/PLEN/DR.T, BHABAN ABHO® HOYAOBONLCTBHE H, KAK MHE MOKAa-
3anoch, MOXET OR TL 4 H Henpae, Aaxe pasapaxenne. IIouemy? He MNpocnexHBa0rca NIH B AAHHOM CANY-
4yae kakHe-TO ONPpeAO0HOHHsIe CBAIH? HOT AH TYT, EC/H MONBTATLCH pasobpaTECH nooGeroarentuee,  BBICOKOÏ MOJMHTHKH, HECMOTPA HA TO, YTO HM@FHO 3TH FOCYAAPpCTBA TYT Ha NieHyMe D'eneparbHoFi KOH-  Geopenuux KaxABH pas NEITAMTCH Yy6eAHTH HAC, YTO OHH HAMEpeHbt CTONTL Aa/NeKO OT MNONHTHKH, He  HyCKATb MONHTHKy B Hamy OprauHsaunw? Passe CTPpeMNeHHE HAUHCTO OTÔPOCHTL NPA3AHOBAHHE 30-it  TOROBUIHHBI MOGGAE AHTHPHTIOPOBCKOH KOA/NHLUHH BO BTOPOR MHPOBOñ BOfHE - STO He MOMHTHKA ?  Passe HesaMeTHA CBA3b MEXAY TEM, HTO NPOAE/Iand HMEHHO 3TH AC/0FALUIHH BYEpa, KOTAA OHH XOTE-  AU MONAHOCTBM OTÔPOCHTE B npoexte pesonpuxx 18 C/PLEN/DR.28 nonoxeHHa o MHpe, oO Mexay-~  HapoaHoñ paapAaaKe, o Gopb6e C KOIOHHA/MI3IMOM, PACH3MOM, pasBG HO ABCTBOHHA ONpeAENEeHHas no-  AHTHUECKAA TÉHAGHLHA STOR FpyNNE CTPAH, KOTAa OHH BHOTYMHAHK NPOTHB LY6AOrO para APYTHX BAXHBIX,  C TOUKH apeHus GONBNHHCTBA KOHGEp2HUHH, pesoroiueñ OTHOCHT@AbHO MONOXEHHKA HA BAHXHOM Boc-  TOKE, MA HH CEFOAHA, NpH OÉCYXACHHH npoexta pesonouxH 18 C/PLEN/DR. 5?
44.2. Ma, rocnona, Hama AO/6TaUHA MpOCNEXHBACT BO BCEM TOM ABHYDO MONHTHUËCKYIO AHHHD, ABHOE  HaïMpaB/eHKe, TeHAEHUHD CO CTOPOHH ONPpéACNCHHOË YVACTH A9NCraUXHR HameH Kondepenuun. Ham nbITa-  PTCA JOKA3ATb, YTO HE HAAO NPA3AHOBATH 30-10 TOROBTHHY NOTOMY, WTO HAPOAH HAUHX CTPAH Npasa-  HyDT rOXOBMHHY kKaxanH ron. Jla, napoant Coserckoro Copia, Kak H, H6COMHEHHO, Häpoasi Bcex  CTPAHK MHpa, KOTOPHE BHHEC/H HA OBOHX MJEVAX BTOPYD MHPOBYD BOAHY M NOGGAHNH, He 3aGHBaALT H  He sa6yAYT MOC/HCACTBHA BOHHE, OHH KAXAHH FON NPAIAHOBANH, MPA3AHYOT it GyAyT npasaHoBaTh  DOXOBIHHY OKOHYAHHA BTOPOñ MHPOBOÂ BoñHE, Ho nodeMy, rocnoaa, ONpenesreHHse Trpyrnnti CTpaH  CYHTADT, “UTO Hama Opranuaanus He AOAXHA FNPASAHOBATL 30-20 roxosminy? WHECKO He MOXET  npasagHoBaTE KAXAMH TOA FOXOBMAHY OKOHYAHHA BOñHt!. DHECKO a0,1xHa oTMeyaTh KaKHE-TO onpe-  Aeneuxse AaTH, Tax HeyxXCH Xe HAM XAaTh TOFO FONA, Koraa DONNER OKOHYAHHA BOñHEI GyaeT  OKaHYHBATbCA HA ABA HyAX ? MHE NMoKasanoch, YTO HMEHHO D 9TOM 3AK/MDYAOTCA NPeANOXeHHe yBA-  XaeMbxX rocnoa Ha Bensruu, Spanumn, BerxKko6pHTaHHH H COGAHHEHHbIX IITATOB AMOPHKH. OHH xO-  TAT MOAOXHATL CTONOTHA OKOHYAHHA BTOPOÏ MHPOBOIl BOHM H FOBOPAT, “UTO ANA HHX Gonee BAXHO  TPHAUATHAGTHE OGpasoBaHHa OOH. À hpanluyackuft AGnerat, # NPOMY NPOMEHKA, 4H TOXE TOBOPD  OMEHB SMOMHOHANBHO, HO OH AAXE SAAB, YTO B HCTOPHH €ro FOCYAAPpCTRA AO H nocne 68110 MHOFO  Gonee Tparnuecknx cos TH, KOTOPBE 3ACAYXHBADT TOTO, UTOÔL HX OTMEVATL Ha yposHe IOHECKO.  OH Ho Ha3Ban KOHKP@THO 3TH TPArHYECKHO COGLITHA, H oueHb XOTEA 6b SHATb, KAKHE TPpArHYECKHE  COÔHTHH AO H nocne BTOPpOH MHPOBOñ ROH, C TOUKII 3peHHs GpaHuyacKOro Aenerara, ABAHAOTCA  Gonse TPpArHUECKHMH H 3ACAYXHRANT TOTO, YTOOSI HX OTMeya/a Hama OpraHH3auxs.,
44.3 Jencrauxa Yxpaniexoñ CCP, KOTOpasH ABNHETCA OAHHM H3 COABTOPOB NPOEKTA péesorpuxH, CO-  Aepxameroca B AokyMenre 18 C/PLEN/DR.T He TONbKO GyaeT HÂCTAHBATb' Ha TOM, YTO6H 3Ta  Ppés0NNUHA PONOCOBANACh ¥ HAC HA NAGHYME, HO H NMONPOCHT NOHMEHHOTO FONOCOBAHHA HO NPOGKTY  Pésonpuux B HenoM. Bnarosapo Bac.
(44.1) Mr. KRAVETS (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Républic) (Translation fromthe Russian):  Thank you, Madam President. The delegates of Belgium, France, Great Britain and the United States  of America - and I have named these States In that order only because it was fn that order thattheyhave just  addressed the plenary Conference - have shown an evident displeasure and, I feel, although | may Le  mistaken, even irritation with the draft resolution contained in document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 7. \hy is this?  Are there not some definite connecting threads which can be seen in thls instance? If you try and sort  things out more thoroughly, is this not ‘a matter of high politics, despite the fact that it is precisely these
562   States which are forever trying to convince us here in the plenary Conference that they intend to stand 47  apart’ from politics and not bring politics into our Organization? Surely the attempt purely and simply to  reject the celebration of the thirtieth anniversary of the victory of the anti-Hitler coalition in the Second  World War is politics? Is there not an evident link here with what these very delegations were doing yes-  terday when they were attempting to reject the provisions In draft <esolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 28 relating  to peace, international détente and the struggle agalnst colonialism and raclallsm? Is it not obvious that  there is a definite political trend inspiring this group of countries when they spoke’ against a whole series  of other resolutions, important from the point of view of the majority of the Conferences, concerning the  situation In the Middle East, and today again when draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 5 was being discussed?
(44.2) Yes, gentlemen, in all of this our delegation sees a clear political line, a clear direction and trend  on the part of a certain section of the delegations to our Conference. They are trying to prove to us that  there is no need to celebrate the thirtieth anniversary because the peoples of our countrles celebrate the  anniversary every year. Yes, the peoples of the Soviet Union, like, no doubt, the peoples of all those  countries who shouldered the burden of the Second World War and were victorious, do not forget and will  not forget the consequences of the war. They have celebrated the ending of the Second World War every  year and are celebrating {t and will continue to celebrate it. But why, gentlemen, do certain groups of  countries think that our Organization must not celebrate the thirtieth anniversary? Unesco cannot cele-  brate the anniversary of the ending of the war every year, Unesco has to observe certain definite dates.  Thus must we wait until the year when the jubilee of the war's end terminates i  twonoughts? This seemed  to me the lo ic.l conclusion of the suggestions made by the distinguished gentlemen from Belgium, France,  Great Britain and the United States of America. They want to wait for the hundredth anniversary of the  ending of the second World War and say that for them, what ts more important is the thirtieth anniversary  of the founding of the United Nations. And the French delegate, forgive me but I am also speaking very  emotionally, he even said that in the history of his country, both before and after the war, there had been  many more tragic events deserving to be commemorated by Unesco. He did not name these tragic events  specifically and I would very much like to know which tragic events before and after the Second World War,  from the point of view of the French delegate, are more tragic and deserve to be commemorated by our  Organization,
(44.3) The delegation of the Ukrainian SSR, which is one of the co-authors of the draft resolution con-  tained in document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 7, will not only Insist that this resolution be voted on by us in plenary,  but also requests a roli-call vote on the draft resolution as a whole. Thank you.
45. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Bulgaria.
46.1 M, DRAMALIEV (Bulgarie). -  Madame la Présidente, je ne croyais vraiment pas avoir à prendre la parole sur le texte ac-  tuellement à l'etude, car je pensais que c'était, de tous les projets de résolution soumis à la Con-  férence générale, celui qui ferait le plus facilement l'unanimité, Ce texte n'a en effet rien à voir  avec les antagonismes politiques entre marxistes et antimarxistes, entre pronocialistes et proca-  pitalistes, entre ceux qui sont respectivement "pro-Israel" et pro-Palestine". Il ne porte que sur  une question fort simple : la lutte historique menée par les forces alliées contre le fascisme pour  faire triompher la démocratie mondiale.
46.2 Or, maintenant, Madame la Présidente, on dit aux auteurs de ce projet de résolution : "Nous  vous comprenons très bien, mais nous voterons contre vous". Il s'agit là, me semble-t-il, d'une  logique bien illogique ! Il m'est impossible de comprendre la position de ceux qui sont défavorables  à la célébration envisagée.
46.3 Madame la Présidente, comme vous le savez vous-même, j'étais ici en 1965, puisque je fai-  sais alcrs partie de la délégation permanente de mon pays auprès de l'Unesco, On célébrait alors  en France le vingtième anniversaire de la fin de la guerre. Je me souviens d'une photo sur la-  quelle on voyait le général de Gaulle regardant vne inscription (‘Pardonne, mais n'oublie pas")  qui se trouve juste derrière Notre-Darne de Paris. Et c'était uniquement le vingtième anniver-  saire de la victoire que célébrait à ce moment la France,
46.4 Et maintenant on nous demande : '"Pourquoi célébrerait-on particulitrernent le trentième  anniversaire de la victoire, plutôt que le vingt-huitième ?". Mais la raison, Madame la Prési-  dente, en est très simple : elle tient à une tradition tout à fait naturelle et humaine qui fait que  les préférences vont toujours à certaîns chiffres, qui se terminent le plus souvent par des zéros,  C'est ainsi que l'on est conduit à célébrer le centième ou les deux centième anniversaire de cer-  taines pérsonnalités qui sont chères à toute l'humanité, C'est ainsi que l'on a préfér& célébrer le  vingt-cinquième anniversaire de l'Unesco, plutôt que le vingt et unidme, L'argument qui consiste  à dire qu'on né voit pas pourquoi on célébrerait particulièrement le trentième anniversaire de la  victoire est donc dénué de fondements. On nous dit d'ailleurs qu'il serait bon de célébrer le tren-  tième anniversaire des Nations Unies. Mais, si l'on tient ledit argument pour juste, pourquoi  alors faudrait-il célébrer ce trentième anniversaire plutôt que le vingt-neuvième ou le trente et  unième ?
46.5 Madame la Présidente, je parle ici non seulement en tant que membre de ma délégation,  mais aussi en tant que professeur d'une science qui s'appelle la science de la morale ; me plaçant  sur le plan de l'éthique, je pensais il y a une demi-heure que la résolution très logique et irès na-  turelle qui est actuellement proposée à la Conférence générale serait adoptée à l'unanimité et peut-  tire avec des applaudissements,
46.6 Dans le système des Nations Unies, l'Unesco est, Madame la Présidente, l'institution à la-  quelle il appartient de faire respecter le droit moral, J'estime que c'est pour elle un impératif  catégorique que d'exprimer le voeu moral de toute l'humanité.
47 46.7 Dans le projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR.7 s'expriment précisément des idées qui de-  vraient tous nous unir ; et quand j'entends, Madame la Présidente, certains des arguments que  l'ôn {nvoque pour s'opposer A ce projet de résolution, tout ce que je peux dire, c'est que c'est  triste, que c'est bien triste, Merci, Madame la Frêésidente,
47. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Hungary.
48, M, USHED.YI (Hongrie). -  Madame Ja F'résidente, je ne voudrais pas répéter les arguments qui ont déjà été avancés ici  en faveur de la célébration du trentième anniversaire de la victoire. Mais je tiens à faire savoir  à la Conférence générale que c'est par suite d'une erreur purement matérielle, que la Hongrie ne  figure pas parmi les coauteurs du projet de résolution en discussion, Un membre de notre délé-  gation a, en fait, participé à l'élaboration de ce projet de résolution, que le gouvernement hongrois  appuie très chalcureusement, Merci, Madame la Présidente.
49. Th: PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of the German Democratic Republic.
50, Mr. HEINZE (German Democratic Republic):  Thank you. Madam President, as a co-sponsor of this draft resolution and as a representa-  tive of the German Democratic Republic, a State which has broken radically with the spirit of  fuscism and racism and destroyed the basis of fascism, we have a special obligation on behalf of  the people of the German Democratic Republic and my government strongly to support
18 C/PLEN/DR.7. This commemoration of the end of the Second World War is necessary in  order to demonstrate that our people have turned to the future while drawing lessons from the  past. In view of the historical importance of this event, our Organization should make an effec-  tive contribution in the spirit of the resolution on Unesco's participation in the celebration of the  thirtieth anniversary of the end of the Second World War. Therefore we ask the honourable dele-  gates to give their full approval to the present resolution. Thank you, Madam President.
51, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, 1 give the floor to the delegate of Romania.
52. M. LIVESCU (Roumanie), -  Madame la Présidente, je serai fort bref, Ainsi que notre délégation l'a déjà dit au cours du  débat sur le point 12.1 de l'ordre du jour, la Roumanie, qui a tant souffert des dévastations et des  horreurs de la Deuxième Guerre mondiale, appuie chaleureusement le projet de résolution 18 C/  PLEN/DR, 7 dont elle est d'ailleurs coauteur. La délégation roumaine estime nécessaire de ren-  dre hommage à tous ceux qui ont sacrifié leur vie pour la paix dane le monde. Je voudrais faire  appel à toutes les délégations pour qu'elles votent en faveur de ce projet de résolution, Je vous  remercie, Madame la Présidente, ’
53. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Mongolia.
54.1 T-5 P.JABAANEMBEPEJ (Monronxa):  YBaxaeMbIñ ToB. IMpeaceaaTerb. Mos AeNITALUHA NOMHOCTLI PpA3AGNAOT MHONOXHTEAbHbE COOÔPA-  XEHHA, BHCKAa3aHHMe yYBAXACHEMH ACH6TATAMH BCEX TPe3BO MEIC/AMUX CTPAH, TockONBKy no o6-  CYXRACMOMY BONpocy Mb BEICKA3A/HCb HeJlaBHO KOHKPETHO, A Gyay OYeHb kpatox. Moanuus Hama  BC@M XOpOilo HaBecTHa. Ona C calor Havana fsnsanacy PELUTEABHON, H MH Ten2pL, Kak HHKoraa,  y6eaAusHCh B €6 NpaBoTe,
54.2 Moda generauxa TONbKO X0Tena BHPA3HUTh HOKOTOPOS YAHB/IEHHE MO NOBOAY BLHICTYN/NEHHA HEKO-  TOPHX YBAXaeMHX AeeraToB. Passe 3TH CTPaHs, KOTOPHIE GLAM BOBAGYEHH B 3TY yXaCHYD BOFHY,  CAMH NOTePANH HCKPOHHHX CBOHX fATPHOTOB, B KOTOPHX YHHYTOXEHO OrpoMHOe AOCTOAHHE BCEro  yenopeqecTna, NOBTOpPAD, PA3BO 3TH CTPAHH yxe JAÔLAH MNOCHOACTBHA 3ToH yXACHOH KPOBONPOAHT=  Holt BOliHM ? HaKOHOIW, MH He MOXEM y6eauts Hame MNOAPÊCTADLICE MOKONGHHE B BAXHOCTH MHPA,  @C/H MH He PAAHM eMYy NOHATH, KAKOF enol OH AOCTHTHYT.
54.3 Tocnoaa aenerathl, Mb AONXHM BCO ITO YMÊCTh 4TOGH H3GABHTL HAWK MPAAYMHO MOKONOHHA  OT BOIMOXHOCTH yxacHofl BONE. TIO9TOMY ME! YÉGAHTEABHO NPOCHM BCEX HAWHX KOAAET MpPOFOAOCO-  PaTh 3A STOT MPOGKT pésorinuHH, KOTOPHA HMEeT HCKADYHT@/NLHO BAXHOO 3HAYÈHHE AA BCEro 4e-  NOBGUECTBA, ANA AeNd YKPONNeHHA MHpa BO BceM MHpe. Bnaromapp Bac, Ton. Ilpeacenatenb.
(54.1) Mr. DAVAADEMBEREL (Mongolia) (Translation from the Russian):  Madam President. My delegation fully subscribes tothe constructive remarks made by the distinguished  delegates of all sober-minded countries. Since we recently made some specific remarks on the matter  under discussion, I will be very brief. Our position ts well known to everyone. It wasa firm position from  the very start and we are now more convinced than ever that it is right,
(54.2) My delegation merely wished to express some surprise at what some distinguished delegates have  said. Did not these countries, which were drawn Into this fearful war, themselves lose their true patriots,  by whose death all mankind was left immeasurably poorer? I repeat, have these countries really forgotten  the consequences of this terrible and bloody war? Finally, we cannot convince our young people of the im-  portance of peace unless we make them understand at what price it was won.
(54.3) Fellow delegates, we must all take this into account in order to spare our young people the possi-  bility of a frightful war. For this reason, we strongly request all our colleagues to vote for this draft  resolution which is of exceptional {mportance (or the whole of mankind and for the strengthening of peace  throughout the world. Thank you, Madam President.
55. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of the United States.
56. Mr. JONES (United States of America):  Thank you, Madam President, It might be possible for us to join together in commemorating  the end of the Second World War in such a way as to reach a true consensus and end the dishar-  mony that has taken place, We would propose that the draft resolution be amended go as to retain  paragraph 1 "considering that 1975 will be the thirtieth anniversary of the end of the Second World  War which was the most devastating and bloody war in the history of mankind" and paragraph 8  which "calls upon Member States to commemorate solemnly and on a wide scale the thirtieth anni-  versary of the victory of freedom-loving peoples at the end of the Second World War" and to delete  the other paragraphs, We would propose this as an amendment. Thank you, Madam President,
57. The PRESIDENT:  You have heard the amendment submitted by the delegate of the United States. The delegate of  Belgium has the floor.
58, M, VAN USSEL (Belgique). -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais, moi aussi, proposer un amendement. Ma proposition est  que le paragraphe 1 du dispositif soit libellé comme suit : "Appelle les Etats membres à commé-  morer avec ampleur et solennité le trentitme anniversaire de la création des Nations Unies", Je  vous remercie.
59. The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Mexico has the floor.
60. Mr. CUEVAS CANCINO (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish}:  Madam President, when a vote is taken on the draft resolution set out in document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 7,  I would like a separate vote to be taken on paragraph 7, because my delegation conslders that the love of  liberty and the determination to sacrifice oneself for one's country never die in the human heart and do not  depend upon circumstances. Thank you.
61. The PRESIDENT:  The deilr.gate of Ukraine has the floor.
62.1 I’-u B.A.KPABE I (Yxpannckaa Coserckaa Counaruotnyecxas Pecny61uKa);  Brarozapp Bac. ECTECTBEHHO, AC/6raUHA YKpauuckoit CCP HO MOXET MIPHHATL MONPABKH, KOTO-  pre ceñuac Grn BHÈCEHbI ACHETAUHAMH COCAUHEHHEX IDTATOB AMEPHKH H BerbrHH. Yro Kacaerca  MONpaBKH AONCraIH COOAHHEHHHX III TATOB AMEpHKH, TaK 3T0, MO CYMECTBY, Apyrad ¢opma nonsT-  KH OTBECTH PS30ADUHD B LenoM, IpeAioxeHHe HCKADYHTB, HO CYMECTBY, BCE MNONOXEHHA 3TOR péso-  ADUHHM He SB/AeTCA OCHOBOË ANA COTPYAHHUEGCTBA H KOMMPOMHCZA.
30-» ronoBmxHy OOH, a xouy HANOMHHTb ASAEraTaM, YTO TAKOR NYHKT YXE COXOPAHTCA B PSIONDUKK,  KOTOPyD Mb! MNpHHAAH HA OCHGRO OGM6H AUCKYCCHH y Hac Ha MJIEHYMO®. BOT noueMy MbI HE NpHHHMaeM
3THX MOMNpABOK H GyAeM ronocosaTh NPOTHB HHX. BlaroAapp sac.
62.1 Mr. KRAVETS (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you. The delegation of the Ukrainian SSR cannot, of course, accept the amendments which have  just been put forward by the delegations of the United States of America and Belglum. So far as the amend-  ment of the delegation uf the United States of America is concerned, this In essence 1s another way of try-  ing to reject the resolution as a whole. The proposal to exclude, in essence, all the paragraphs of this  resolution is not a basis for co-operation and compromise.
(62.2) With regard to the proposal by the delegate of Belgium that a reference ehould be made to the need  to celebrate the thirtieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, [ wish to remind the delegates  that a paragraph of this kind is already contained {n the resolution which we adopted on the basis of the gen-  eral debate in plenary. This Is why we do not accept these amendments and shall vote agaînst them,  Thank you.
63.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I now put to the vote the amendment of the United States.  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
63.2 The amendment is rejected (21 ‘votes in favour, 27 against, with 18 abstentions).
47 63.3 I ask the Secretary to repeat the amendment of Belgium.
64, Le SECRETAIRE, -  Madame la Présidente, l'amendement proposé par la Belgique se rapporte à l'avant-dernier  alinéa du projet de résolution, I consisterait A remplacer les mots "'victoire que les peuples  &pris de liberté ont remportée lors de Ja Seconde Guerre mondiale" par les mots "la création des  Nations Unies",
65.1 The PRESIDENT:  I call for a vote on this amendment.  (A vote was taken by show of feet)
65.2 The amendment is rejected (24 votes In favour, 27 against, with 13 absentions).
65.3 The delegate of the Ukraine has asked for a roll-call vote on the resolution as a whole.  Does anybody second the proposal of the Ukraine? It is seconded.
65.4 The delegate of Mexico asked for a separate vote on paragraph 7. I call for a vote on para-  graph 7.  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
65.5 Paragraph 7 is adopted by 34 votes to 2, with 32 abstentions. The delegate of Switzerland  has the floor.
66. M, HUMMEL (Suisse). -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais expliquer mon vote. Si j'ai voté contre le paragraphe 7,  c'est parce que j'ai été profondément convaincu par les arguments qufa avancés mon collègue du  Mexique. Je pense comme lui, la lutte menée par les peuples pour se libérer et contre la domina-  tion étrangère a pris son élan bien avant la dernière guerre mondiale, Merci.
67.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. We will now proceed to a roll-call vote on the resolution as a whole.  (Le vote a lieu par appel nominal :  Ont voté pour : Yémen, République démocratique du Yémen, Yougoslavie, Afghanistan,  Algérie, RSS de Biélorussie, Brésil, Bulgarie, Congo (République populaire du), Côte-d'Ivoire,  Cuba, République arabe d'Egypte, Finlande, Guinée, Hongrie, Inde, Irak, Liban, République  arabe libyenne, Maroc, Mauritanie, Mongolie, Niger, Oman, Panama, Paraguay, Pologne, Répu-  blique démocratique allemande, République populaire démocratique de Corée, Roumanie, Soudan,  République arabe syrienne, Tchécoslovaquie, Tunisie, RSS d'Ukraine, Union des républiques  socialistes soviétiques.  Ont voté contre ; Belgique, Danemark, Etats-Unis d'Amérique, France, Guatemala, Irlande,  Israël, Japon, Nicaragua, Pays-Bas, Royaume-Uni,  Se sont abstenus : Zambie, République fédérale d'Allemagne, Argentine, Australie, Autriche,  Bolivie, Canada, Chili, Chine (République populaire de), Colombie, République de Corée, Dahomey,  El Salvador, Espagne, Ethiopie, Gabon, Ghana, Hatti, Haute-Volta, Indonésie, Iran, Italie,  Jamafque, Kenya, Laos, Medagascar, Malaisie, Maurice, Mexique, Népal, Nigéria, Norvège,  Nouvelle-Zélande, Philippines, Portugal, Rwanda, Sénégal, Suède, Suisse, Tanzanie, Tchad,  Togo, Uruguay, Venezuela.  Etaient absents : Albanie, Arabie Saoudite, Bahrein, Bangladesh, Barbades, Birmanie,  Burundi, Cameroun, République Centrafricaine, Chypre, Costa Rica, République dominicaine,  Emirats arabes unis, Equateur, Gambie, Grèce, Guinée-Bissau, Guyane, Honduras, Jordanie,  Koweit, Lesotho, Libéria, Luxembourg, Malawi, Mali, Malte, Monaco, Pakistan, Pérou, Qatar,  Saint-Marin, Sierra Leone, Singapour, Somalie, République de Sri-Lanka, Thaflande, Trinité et  Tobago, Turquie, République du Viet-nam,)
67.2 The resolution {s adopted by 36 votes to 11, with 45 abstentions. Now I give the floor to the  delegate of Libya for an explanation of vote.  (Repl buy ad dp perl) WS pat pS Wl andl y AG)
1 lisses pause LU pladdgnys lS pbs 6 dasa ui Lilly de Glo Luby Bil ul € dad SNS apd]  pb alo ply WN pulled 6 Aol idle Ban le lage Land Yo) Jy  sg Lady Jaa I Gale GET Bas he beast pall glad) dias Yds fl 559  PRY of Jeo ul alt to.) Ose ù i 3 FV LE NLP LPP 1 * LS Hao vs ost [HPN COWS) a WI yee  ols Vaan, LS ise “ul St eats $50 gd Lleol oli be Vy pt  NEN FOS © Sah
15 cayuis* 2 Fag tg; Wi pbs of Wi csv VS LA OF pasa all A seca Glug Lio  Jas Lal à 0x1 spl ells Wests of ULE on Lilet US oS, Lil Lia L301 Me 5 pad? Lg o L  sy Sig Jan Vins y le bay boner 8) Fheopactly BW etafiog lig Leds gay € pd) L153 Ÿ Na  ote LS 1 HAL GAIN gy, Gl Jually Gal gy, lanl LAN 513 Vin] dota tata  SCR ||
(68.1) Mr. MANSOUR AL KIKHIA (Libyan Arab Republic) (Translation from the Arabic):  Madam President, our delegation was In general agreement with the draft resolution but we neverthe-  less wish to be allowed to explain our vote. The reason is that our people in the Libyan Arab Republic re-  gard the Second World War from the point of view of those who were wronged by Ît and whose wrongs were  inflicted by the strong whether they appeared as open aggressors or whether they claimed to be friends.  Madam President, I represent a country which was'lald waste in the same way both by the Nazl armies  and by those of the allies during the Second World War, even though it had no part In the war or in its  causes. For this reason, the commemoration of the war comes to us every year as a painful and sad re-  minder of the ferocity of man intoxicated by power.
(68.2) Moreover, for us this commemoration betokens the victory of one power over another. It {s not  clear, in our view, whather or not the war resulted in the victory of peace. The power anich emerged as  the victor in the war undoubtedly deserves credit as the destroyer of Nazism, as we fully appreciate. Our  vote today in favour of the resolution was merely an expression of our hope that these victorious forces  will prove that they are Indeed working to establish peace and we therefore give them an opportunity to  convince us and the peoples of the entire world that we should regard the celebration commemorating the  Second World War as a celebration of the establishment of peace and of the victory of the spirit'of truth  and justice over the spirit of aggression. Thank you, Madam President.”
69. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Uruguay.
(70) Mr. FERNANDEZ (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish}:  Thank you, Madam President, Uruguay abstained and wishes to explain its vote in a few words. All  mankind benefited from the victory against Nazism, but we cannot deny how heavily the tragic price paid  for victory by so many peoples weighed on our conscience when it came to the vote. For thai very reason,  out of respect for so many million dead, we abstained from voting for a draft resolution which finds those  who were the protagonists in that great victory divided as regards the celebration of it. Thank you,  Madam President.
71. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of China.
72.1 M, HU SHA (République populaire de Chine). - (Déclaration faite en chinols. Version fran-  çaise établie d'après l'interprétation. )  Madame la Présidente, la délégation chinoise s'est abstenue lors du vote sur le 18 C/PLEN/  DR. 7 et je voudrais expliquer pourquoi.
72.2 Le peuple chinois garde présents à l'esprit les éno.mes sacrifices consentis par le peuple  de l'Union soviétique et les autres peuples du monde et ia contribution immense qu'ils ont apportée  dans la guerre antifasciste, Nous éprouvons de très rrofonds sentiments d'estime envers les  grands exploits accomplis au cours de cette guerre var le peuple soviétique et par l'armée rouge  soviétique commandée par Staline, Notre hommape va également aux peuples et forces armées des  autres pays qui ont contribué à la résistance à le guerre d'agression fasciste.
72.3 Mais le meilleur moyen que nous ayons de célébrer le trentième anniversaire de la victoire  est, à notre avis, de tirer de l'histoire les leçons qui s'imposent et de demeurer toujours vigilants  devant le danger d'une nouvelle guerre mondiale, danger qui a ga source dans l'attitude agressive  des superpulssances, dane leur expansion et dans leur rivalité en vue de l'hégémonie mondiale,  Nous voudrions souligner ici qu'une certaine superpulssance souhaiterait profiter de la célébration  du trentième anniversaire de la Seconde Guerre mondiale pour tirer parti, sur le plan politique  des exploits historiçues du peuple soviétique et pour êtayer ainsi sa politique d’hégémonie mondiale,  sa politique du plus fort, Nous devons demeurer extrèmement vigilants à cet égard. Telles sont  les raisons pour lesquelles la délégation chinoise s'est abstenue. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
73. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 1 give the floor to the delegate of Indonesia,
74. Mr. PADMODIPOETRO (Indonesfa):  Thank you, Madam Président. Our delegation abstained from voting on this resolution for the
47 following reasons. Our delegation shared to the full {n the suffering and hardships of our own peo-  ple and of others during World War IT, .Irdonesia lost more than one millfon people during the occu-  pation, but our delegation ie not convinced that by celebrating the anniversary ôf the ènd of the Sec-  ond World War we siill contilbute to thé promotion of friendship and brothérhdod among nations,  As far ag Indonesia is concerned, our delegation appreciates the statement by the distinguished  delegate from Belgium which indicates that our struggle for independence started long before the  Second World War. indonesia ‘was fortunate to have an opportinity in 1945 to proclaim its inde-  pendence due to the fact that there was then a vacuum of foreign power in our country, Madam  President, our delegation is of the opinion that we should not look back to the bad and bitter experi-  ences of the past but should seek to develop friendship and brotherhood in the future. Thank you.
15. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Australia.
76. Mr, ANDERSON (Australla):  Thank you, Madam President, Australia was from the outset a member of the alliance which  defeated the forces of Hitlerism and fascism. We deeply respect the memory of those who gave  their lives in the Second World War and the great sacrifices made by the peoples who fought in ft.  At the same time, my delegation shares the sentiments of those speakers today who saw in this  proposal a negative and possibly divisive approach and who believed that our Organization should  concentrate its efforts and its activities upon constructive work for the benefit of present and  future generations. For these reasons, my delegation abstained on the resolution. Thank you,  Madam President.
77. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Venezuela.
(78) Mr. DE SOLA (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Madam President. The delegation of Venezuela abstained, even though it considers that  the end of the Second World War was such an important event that it deserves to be remembered, not only  on its thirtieth anniversary but every day by those who love peace and freedom. The reason for our absten-  tion is the same as that adduced by the distinguished delegate of Uruguay, whose words we fully endorse.  Thank you, Madam President.
79. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of Panama has the floor.
(80.1) Mr. BUSTAMANTE (Panama) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam Presldent, 1 voted in favour of draft résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 7 and À think that the majority  of those who abstained did so because they had personally suffered the consequences of the last world war,
1 believe that this may be one of the reasons behind their abstention. But frankly speaking, what I do not  understand, what I cannot understand, I€ that countries which suffered those consequences directly, which  suffered all the havoc, all the human and material destruction of the last world war, should have voted  against that draft resolution,
(80.2) My country, Madam, is one of those that did not direétly suffer the ravages of the last world war,  but I peraonally was a witness to all the horrors of that conflict. For that reason ! voted in favour of the  draft. Furthermore, I do not belleve that we should wait for anniversaries to be in the tens or hundreds  of years before celebrating the end of so many horrors. Had we been asked to voté earlier lo see whether  this celebration should have been held, with Unesco's participation, I should likewise have voted in the  affirmative. Thank you, Madam President.
81. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Î give the floor to the delegate of Dahomey.
82, M, BOISSIER-PALUN (Dahomey). 47  Madame la Présidente, j'interviens en fin de débat pour. expliquer mon vote, Ce faisant, je .  voudrais non seulement exprimer le sentiment de quelqu'un qui a personnellement souffert dans sa  chair de la dernière guerre, mais encore apporter A cette assemblée l'opinion d'un certain nombre  de mes collègues qui sont dans le mème cas que moi, Je me suis abstenu trois fois. Je me suis  d'abord abstenu sur la proposition présentée par notre collègue des Etats-Unis selon laquelle ce  projet de résolution aurait 6té réduit à un texte invitant simplement les Etats membres à célébrer  le trentième anniversaire de la victoire ; cette proposition était pour moi sans intérèt, parce que  chaque Etat célèbre normalement cet anniversaire. Je me suis également abstenu lorsque notre  collègue de Belgique a demandé que l'on remplace la célébration de la victoire par la célébration  de la création de l'ONU, J'estime qu'une telle décision ne nous appartient pas, parce que l'ONU  peut fort bien la prendre elle-même, Je me suis enfin abstenu sur l'ensemble du texte, et cela,  je ne l'ai pas fait sans tristesse. En effet, si je ne suis pas d'un pays sur le territoire duquel-la  guerre ait fait des ravages, je suis d'un pays qui a fourni des soldats à cette guerre. J'ai moi-  même combattu dans cette guerre et j'ai souffert dans ma chair, comme je vous le disais tout à  l'heure ; je serais donc le dernier à ne pas me réjouir de la victoire ; j'ai, en fait, d'autant plus  de raisons de m'en réjouir que pour nous, pays qui en étions encore à l'ère coloniale, cette guerre  est chargée d'une lourde signification et que la victoire de 1945 nous a apporté la satisfaction de  toutes nos ambitions humaines, Et si nous siégeons aujourd'hui dans cette salle, au sein mème  de la communauté mondiale, c'est peut-être à cette victoire que nous le devons. Ma tristesse  n'est donc pas liée à l'objectif auquel tend la résolution ; elle n'est pas liée au fait qu'il est néces-  saire de rappeller aux générations d'aujourd'hui les exploits de leurs aînés et de retracer l'his-  toire d'événemente dont on souhaite qu'ils ne puissent plus se reproduire. Elle vient de deux cons-  tations : la première est que la victoire de 1945 fut le fait d'une coalition ou plutôt d'une alliance  et que nous nous sommes aperçus aujourd'hui que cette alliance, cette fraternité d'armes, qui était  née sur les champs de bataille, se trouvait plus ou moins rompue, comme en témoignent les divi-  sions qui se sont manifestées ici même, Nous aurions aimé voir tous les alliés de l'époque se  solidariser pour demander la célébration en question, Cela n'a malheureusement pas été possible,  peut-être parce que la décision appartient en cette manière à des instances politiques, et non pas  aux nôtres. Personnellement, j'aurais aimé présenter un amendement aux termes duquel les Etats  auraient êté invités à célébrer, non plus la victoire, mais la création de l'Unesco, c'est-à-dire la  naissance, avec la fin de la guerre, de cet espoir immense que représente notre Organisation. A  l'occasion de la célébration du trentième anniversaire de l'Unesco, il aurait été loisible à chacun  d'entre nous de rappeler les faits d'armes des uns et des autres, de rendre hommage aux plus  illustres de ceux qui se sont sacrifiés dans la lutte contre les forces d'oppression, sans oublier  non plus les millions de civils qui ont été les malheureuses victimes d'une politique de violence,  Je pense donc, Madame la Présidente, que nous nous serions montrés beaucoup plus sages, en  - mettant l'accent sur la célébration de la naissance de l'Unesco, organisation qui a précisément  pour but de mettre fin à l'esprit de rivalité qui a trop souvent animé les peuples et à ces luttes  dans lesquelles s'affrontent la force et la faiblesse. Je vous remercie.
83. The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Belgium has the floor.
84. M. VAN USSEL (Belgique). -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais dire quelques mots au sujet cu vote dont a fait l'objet  l'amendement que j'avais eu l'honneur de présenter, J'ai constaté avec une certaine amertume,  ou plutôt avec une certaine inquiétude, que 24 Etats membres seulement se sont associés à cet  amendement, dont le but était d'inviter tous les Etats membres à célébrer le trentième anniver-  saire de la création de l'Organisation des Nations Unies. Peut-être les votes négatifs et les abs-  tentions ont-ils été motivés par la déclaration de l'honorable représentant de l'Ukraine, qui a dit  qu'il existait déjà une autre résolution concernant le trentiètme anniversaire de la création des  Nations Unies. Mails je n'ai pour ma part trouvé dans le programme aucune disposition en vertu  de laquelle l'Unesco pourrait être associée A la célébration du trentidme anniversaire de l'Organi-  sation des Nations Unies, Je voudrais donc, Madame la Présidente, demander par votre intermé-  diaire à l'honorable délégué de l'Ukraine de bien vouloir m'indiquer quelle est la résolution à la-  quelle il a fait allusion, Je vous remercie,  Draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 10 and draft amendment 18 C/PLEN/DR. 17
85. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. We will now take up 18 C/PLEN/DR. 10 and 18 C/PLEN/DR, 17 which is an  amendment to 18 C/PLEN/DR. 10. Are there any amendments to 18 C/PLEN/DR. 17? El  Salvador has the floor.
(86.1) Mr. LINDO (Et Salvador) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President, | have asked to speak In order to submit an amendment, which will not be an ‘amend-  ment pruper but rather a new draft resolution in place of the one set out in document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 10and  the amendment set out in document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 17.
(86.2) After listening to the statements made by the distingulshed representatives who yesterday stressed  the need to achieve a consensus or, ideally, unanimity among all the delegations, on such basic questions  as human rights and peace, a group of countries has decided to submit a draft resolution which, by unifying  the views expicscod, may achieve that consensus, obviate the need for a policy debate and save the General  Conference time.
(86.3) This draft resolution fs being submitted by Costa Rica, El Salvador, Haiti, Indonesia, Japan and  Nicaragua. The original text has been drafted in French, which 1s the working language of the delegations  of those countries, but I shall take the liberty of reading it in Spanish translation, | am counting on the  support of some of the Latin American countries, such as Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia, Paraguay, Uruguay,  Ecuador and some of the African countries. We also believe that it will be acceptable to the majority of  the countries of other regions. In all modesty, we feel that this text is superior to the drafy resolution of  document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 10 and the amendment set out In document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 17, in which there  is a mixture of heterogeneous elements and to a large extent a repetition of the content of draft resolution
18 C/PLEN/DR. 18, adopted yesterday.
(86.4) Taking as the central idea the third preambular paragraph in the Cuban proposal, we have tried to  fashion a unified draft round the subject of cultural rights, which were not sufficiently dealt with in either  of the two drafts or in the resolution adopted yesterday. We believe that these rights constitute one of  Unesco's specific missions. We have combined the general, which characterizes the Chilean amendment,  with the particular of some parts of the draft resolution submitted by Cuba, In a form that we think will be  acceptable to the majority of the countries represented at the Conference. Without wishing to sft in judge-  ment - a function that would be improper in the present circumstances - we believe that certain references  may be made to particular points that are public knowledge. Thus, instead of placing further responsibility  on the Director-General's shoulders, thereby adding to the heavy burden'that he is already bearing, we have  limited ourselves to noting that he is already acting within the competence of Unesco, in the case of a Mem-  ber State. We have not quoted resolutions of the United Nations or of Unesco, for the reason given yester-  day by a distinguished representative, because we should not only have to have them before us, but also  study them with due altentlion. On the other hand, we have felt it possible to mention the fact that a number  of agencies of the United Nations system have adopted and will continue to adopt measures to protect human  rights, each In the field of its competence and in accordance with ite own norms and practices.
(86. 5) Madam President, I should now like to read the draft resolution the original text of which I shall then  transmit to the Secretariat:  "The General Conference,  Considering that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 10 December 1948 recognizes that  everyone has the right to an education directed to the full development of the human personality and to  the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms; and that everyone has the  right freely to participate in the cultural life of the cornmunity and to share in sclentific advancement  and its benefits,  Mindful of the damaging effect of the antihumanistic practices of colonialism, racism and fasciem on  the full development of the intellectual life of the peoples,  Deeply concerned by the extent to which human rights continue to be violated in various regions of the  world,  Taking note, with concern, of the charges made with regard to the situation in Chile, particularly in  the realms of education, science and culture,  Convinced that Unesco and its Member States should redouble their efforts on behalf of human rights,  peace and international understanding,  Recalling that, desirous of preserving the wealth and independence of their varlous cultures, Unesco  abetains from any {ntervention in the internal affairs of its Member States,  Bearing in mind the actions taken by various organizations of the United Nations system for the pro-  tection of human rights,  ’  Calls for the immediate cessation of violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, especially  the restrictions on freedom of thought, cornsclence, expression, education, scientific reséarch, artis-  tic creation, the practice of a profession and association as recognized in Articles 18, 19, 20, 26 and
27 of the Declaration of Human Rights and other international instruments,  Notes with approval that the Executive Board of Unesco has requested the Director-General to take  such measures within his competence as he may deem most appropriate in order lo redress the current  situation fn a Member State, In the fields of education, science and culture,
47 Declares that Unesco should intensify its action in defense of the aforementioned rights and Mberiles,  by the identification of the obstacles that prevent Its Constitution from exerting its full force and by the  strengthening of social, economic and cultural rights;  Urges all Member States to co-operate with Unesco and with one another for the achlevement of the  objectives set out in this resolution’,  Thank you, Madam President.
87, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Cuba.
(88.1) Mr. LE RIVEREND (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanfeh): .  Thank you, Madam President. Obviously il is a correct approach to vote first on an amendment which  is considered to differ must from the text of a draft resoluiion, And I would say that not only doea the one  that has just been submitted differ most, but that it Is totally élfferent from the resolution it cltiins to  amend. 1 did not have occasion to submit to the Conference tte draft resolution set out in docurent
18 G/PLEN/DR. 10, but I shall refer now to the one that other delegations have submitted.
(88.2) In the first place, we belleve, and we say so unequivacably, that it Is not a question of formulating  a statement of a géneral nature but of adopting à spectilc declaration, and when the time comes fof me to  do so, ! shall explain the reasons why Cuba Is submitting té the General Conference the draft resolution  set out in 12 C/PLEN/DR. 10. In the second place, we do not believe that the problem will be solved by  including In a new draft resolution a few statements of a general character, thereby depriving the draft  submitted by Cuba of {ts essential force. In point of fact, by deleting the reference to a particular Member  State, walch constitutes a stand within the general framework of Unegco's struggle for peace and the de-  fense of human rights and Unesco’s ceaseless activity In favour of education, science and culture, the re-  sult 1s simply a repetition of other declarations which, for example, we examined not many meetings ago
572   and even yesterday. Cuba realizes this perfectly well, and in such cases of declarations of a general na-  ture, Cuba has voted in accordance with {ts principles and criteria.
(88.3) Consequently, it is not a question of niaking further declarations of a general nature, but of a con-  crete case which, as those who are proposing this new resolution admit, hae recently been dealt with in  other internaticnal agencies. Furthermore, we consider that Unesco has no need to declare that it does  not intervene in the internal affairs of a State. Why? Simply because all Unesco’s decisions arè con-  cerned in some way with the internal affairs of States. Unesco does not have an interventionist approach  but to say that Unesco has an obligation not tu intervene is practically to declare that Unesco can take no  decisions whatsover. For us, therefore, this is inadmissible. Moreover, the fact that the Executive Board  decided by a majority vote to carry out further Inyuetigations concerning clear-cut violations of human  rights known to everyone, and concerning the attacks against education, science and culture in Chile, does  not prevent this assembly, In the exercise of its lawful right, from determining something else In that re-  gard, or from concurring - as indeed it does concur through the Cuban draft resolution - with what has  been agreed upon by the Executive Board, There 18 absolutely no rule which states that when the Executive  Board of Unesco has taken a decision, the General Conference must be silent about a problem,
(68.4) On the other hand, a problem of a technical order arises: as [have already safd, we have here a  new draft resolution. The countries that are submitling it are perfectly entitled to do so; but we have only’  heard the Spanish version of a text prepared In French. Who has seen the English and French versions?  Who has been able to study them? In peint of fact,’ this new draft resolution, Instead of helping to shorten  the discussion, will delay the ending of the present session uf the General Conference and prevent us from  belng able to attend its closing session and hearing the new Director-General.
(88.5) For these reasons, Madam President, we do not accept nor are we disposed to accept, any of the  features of this new resolution which has been put before us, and we invite the Conference to eject it.  Thank you, Madam President, and allow me to reserve the right to speak again later on other aspects of  the present debate.
59. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of the Soviet Union.
90.1 F-x A.C.NNHPAJIOB (Cons CoBetckix CouxantcTHueckux Pecny6auk);  Hama nenerauds NONHOCTBD COT/IacHA C BHCTYNIGHHEM yBaXaemoro npeacraskrens Ky6u H non-  HOCTBD pa3AA/A0T APryMEHTAUHD, KOTOpas HM BbICKa3aHa.
90.2 “To KacaeTCs npoekTa pesorbuHH, KOTOPHIF 6H TONBKO YTO HAM MPSACTABNEH YOTHO, MHE  MpeACTAB/NHETCA, YTO MH HE HMeeM NpaBa BHCTYNATh NO 3TOMY NPOEKTY peésonouHH, KOTOPHHA ABA  eTca oueHs 6onbwWHM, KOTOPHH Mb) YCALIANH TONBKO B NOPeR0Ae H HO BCe COOTBETCTBEHHO YCNE/H  PpaccMOTPpeTb, H, CABAOBATENLHO, MB POPMANBHO HE HMCEM [Papa TroN0coBaTh 3a STOT HGBSIH 60ab -  WOR NONMHTHYECKHH MPOEKT pesonouuH.
3HAUYHTE/ILHO YXYAMAËT TEKCT NpoeKTa pesonouxu 18 C/PI.EN/DR 10 H npoTHBOPeUHT O6MENONHTH-  YÉCKOA Pe30APUHH, MpHHATOH HAMH BYepa Ha IT@HApHOM 3ACGAAHHH MOCHE FAYGOKOÏ H AIHTENBHOÏ  AHCKYCCHH, Kpome sroro, no MHEHHD nenerauud CCCP, pamucTcKas xyHTa B UMAH HO HMEET MOparb-  HOTO NPaBa roBOPHTH O KaKOÏ-/1HGO 3amKiTe MpaB YenOBEKAa, H MH B NPHHUHAG NPOTHB NPHHATHA MOJNH-  THYECKHX TEXCTOB, NFOANATACMBIX Ham PamHCTCKOH xyHTOH.
90.4 Hecxonbko cnos o npoekre 18 C/PLEN/DR. 10. BcoM Ham H3BECTHO, YTO UGNHA PAA MeèxAyHa-  POAHEIX OPraHHaauthÿ CHCTOMH OOH yx6 OCYAHA NPÉCTYNNOHHS YHNHÉCKOÏ BOeHMHHEH. HapecTho Tax-  Xe, YTO MHOTHE M@XAYHAPpOAHEE HeMPABHTEO/ILCTBOHHLE, à TaKXe HALHOHA/NBHBC OPraAHHIALHH pAña  CTPAH BMCTYNHAH C NPOTECTaMH MPOTHB MACCOBHX HapymeHui npap yenonexa » YHin H o6paTHAMCEH B  IOHECKO, 5 Hamy Oprannsäuxm, ¢ Npoch6oH, 4T06H OHA CBOHM ABTOPHTÉTOM BHCTyNHAA B 3amMHTY  npas yenoseka B Yuan. Bin COIACH CheuHarEHHÉ KOMHTOT Henonunrensioro cosera WHECKO, Ko-  TOP» B TOUOHHE ABYX HORENb PACCMATPHBAN 3TH NPOTECTH MeXAYHADOAHLIX H HALHOHAJILHEIX OPrAHH-  aaunit H nopyusn D'enepalsHoMy AHPEXTOPY HANPABKTH 3TH NPOSKTH XyuTeé H B Oprannaaunn O61eau-  HEHHsIX Hauuit. HCNONHHTEABHHA coset WHECKO tpuxar paccMaTpHBan BONPOC O HAPYMEHHH npas  uen0BEKA B UHNH, BMPaaun ray6oxon 6ecnokoficTBO B CBAIH ¢ HapymeHHeM 9THX pas YesoBexa H no-  pyuxn l'exeparbHoMy AHpexTOpy 3amHMaTh NpaBA pa6OTHHKOB OGPpAasOBAHHA, HAYKH, KYNbTYPM K HH-  œopxHauxx B Ut. Mu CYUHTAGM, UTO NpHHATOE PpOHCHHE ABNROTCA YOCTHY AAA Hameñ OpraHusauxHH.
90.5 Toneko npeacransTe cebe, uTO Takoe 30.000 paccTpensuuux H axono 100.000 veroBeKx B KOHU-  narepax, B TOPBMAX ANA TAKOÏ OTHOCHTGABHO HOÉONbIOR CTpaHs, Kak YHAH? I He TOBOPD yxXe O NUT-  xax, paccTpenax Fes CyAa, pasrpoMe MNOMHTHYECKHX MAPTHA H T.A. À KaK paclieHHTb TOT GakT, uTO  BCE PEKTODH, MpopeKTopH YHHBEPCHTETOB, KCTATH NPHHANNOXABIUHE K AOMO-XPHCTHAHCKOÏ HApTHH,
90.6 Ton. Hpeacenatens, Hama Kondepenuus npHHAna DAA PO3OARUHA B samHry npas yenosexa, H  MHOFHE Aenerarsl CAPAaBEANHBO FOBOPHAH, YTO Hama OpraHH3auHA AO/NXHA BMCTYNaTh B 38MHTy NpaB  paGoTHHKOB OGPAIOBAHHA, HaYKR H KyAbTYPH. CéronaHa - MepBas, MPaKTHYACKAR NPOBE PKA HOKpeHHoc-  TH HâÂWHX CTPOMN6HHA, npHuesm, A 6 CKAIA/, B AOBONBHO CKpOMHOR dopMme, no CymecTBy, B $OpMe  pesonbuHH, yxe OA06peHHoñ HCNONHHTEANBHEIM CORGTOM. COBeTOKAR AONOFAUXA Gyaer FONOCOBATb 3a  pesonnuxm Ky6u H HaRCOTCA, AUTO 9Ta pesonnux4 GYAGT NOAACPXAHA NOAGBAANIEHM G0/NL DHHCTBOM  MpHCYTCTBYDIHX 3Aech AeNeralHA. Bnaronapp Bac, Ton. FMpeaceAatenb.
47 (90.1) Mr. PIRADOV (Union of Soviet Soclalist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Our delegation Is completely in agreement with the statement made by the distinguished representative  of Cuba and fully endorses the arguments put forward by him.
(90.2) With regard to the draft resolution which was submitted to us orally just now, I feel that we are not  entitled to speak on this draft resolution which is a very long one and which we heard only in translation.  We have not been able to give it proper consideration and consequently we are not formally entitled to vote  on this new and long political draft resolution.
(90.3) With regard to the amendment proposed by Chile, | am bound to say that this amendment signifi-  cantly worsens the text of draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 10 ard contradicts the general policy resolution  adopted by us yesterday in plenary after a thorough and prolonged discussion. In addition, in the opinionof  the USSR delegation, the fascist junta in Chile is not morally entitled to speak about any kind of defence of  human rights, and we are In principle opposed to adopting political texts submitted to us by the fascist  junta.
(90.4) A few words about draft resolution 19 C/PLEN/DR. 10. We all know that a whole series of interna-  tional organizations in the United Nations system’ have alieady discussed the crimes of the Chilean military  clique, It is also known that many international non-governmental and also national organizations of a num-  ber of countrles have protestcd against the massive violations of human rights In Chile and have requested  Unesco, our Organization, to use its authority to defend human rights in Chile. A special committee of  Unesco's Executive Board was set up which spent two weeks examining these protests from international  and national organizations and instructed the Director-General to send these protests to the junta and to  the United Nations. Unesco's Executive Board on three occasions considered the violation of human rights  in Chile, expressed deep concern in connexion with the violation of these human rights and invited the  Director-General to defend the rights of those active in education, science, culture and communication in  Chile. Our opinion is that the decision taken does honour to our Organization.
(90.5) Just imagine what it means for such a relatively small country as Chile to have 30, 000 people shot  and about 100, 000 people in concentration camps and prisons. | am saying nothing about the tortures, the  executions without trial, the breaking up of political parties, etc. And how are we to view the fact that all  the rectors and vice-rectors of the universities, who all belong, by the way, to the Christian Democrat  party, have been replaced by infantry generals, admirals and air marshals? What are we to think of the  bonfires of books on which were burnt the most outstanding classics of world literature? What are we to  think of the fact that a third of the university student population, 30, 000 out of 100, 000, and many thou-  sands of teachers, have been expelled from the universities and schools? What are we to think of the  execution of Bolivian students who had come to Chile for the United Nations and had United Nations  passports?
(90.6) Madam President, our Conférence has adopted a number of resolutions defending human rights and  many delegates have rightly stated that our Organizatl:a must be active in defence of the rights of those  working In education, science and culture, Today is the first practical test of the sincerity of our efforts,  although I would say it is in a rather modest form, in fact, in the form of a resolution already approved by  the Executive Board. The Soviet delegation will vote for the Cuban resolution and hopes that this resolu-  tion will be supported by the overwhelming majority of delegations here present. Thank you, Madam  President.
91. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of El Salvador.
(92) Mr. LINDO {El Salv2-tor) (Translation !.um the Spanish):  Madam President, 1 should like to allay the apprehensions of the delegate of Cuba with regard to the  text that he häs criticized, perhaps because he was unable to follow the reading of it with all the requisite  attention. It may be that the fact of having presented it orally constitutes 5 real problem, but in point of  fact the name of the country to which allusion has been made does appear in our proposal. Furthermore,  if the text of our proposed draft is read attentively, it will be seen that the reference to non-intervention  in the internal affairs of a Member State does not seek to deny that the Organization can and should inter-  vene in the fields of education, science and culture, without going beyond its competence, Furthermore,  it has often happened that in the course of a discussion texts have been submitted which had not been pre-  viously submitted to the various delegations. I do not see why an exception would be made in this case.  Lastly, Madam President, I should like to point cut that | mistakenly mentioned the delegation of Uruguay  among the delegations supporting the draft resolution that 1 submitted orally. Thank you, Madam President.
93. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 1 give the floor to the delegate of the United Kingdom.
94, Mr. MARTIN (United Kingdom):  Thank you, Madum President. I really just want *o know where we stand. My delegation is
574   perfectly prepared to deal with 18 C/PLEN/DR. 10 which, in fact, gives us very little if any diffi- 47  culty, and with 18 C/PLEN/DR. 17, but we have the greatest difficulty with what seemed to me to  be a totally new draft resolution, which was read out five of six interventions ago, at quite incred-  ible speed. I have no idea at all what it contains. We could, of course, ask that it should be cir-  culated in the working languages to all delegations, a day before it Is discussed, but I would think  that the Conference might take the view that, at a quarter to one on the last day plus one of the  General Conference, that particular proposition, made orally, is not really acceptable. There-  fore, I would hope, Madam President, that you would rule firmly, under paragraph 3 of Rule 78,  that it would not be right to permit discussion of those particular amendments which were propused  orally a short while ago. Thank you, Madam President.
95, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Rule 78, paragraph 2 reads: "As a general rule no draft resolution shall be dis-  cussed or put to the vote, unless coples of it have been circulated in the working languages to all  delegations not later than the day preceding the meeting", Paragraph 3: "Notwithstanding the  provisions of the foregoing paragraph, the President may permit the discussion and consideration  of amendments to substantive motions and of substitute motions of procedural motions, without  previous circulation of copies”. Ladies and gentlemen, taking into account this Rule, my ruling  is that the resolution submitted by El Salvador is not acceptable. Does anybody challenge my rul-  ing? The delegate of Chile,
(96.1) Mr. PSRGURO (Chile) (Translation from the Spanish):  On a potat of orde>, Madam President, the sponsors of the draft resolution submitted a few minutes  ago by the celegation of El Salvador have informed me that this draft was submitted to the Secretariat on  Thursday afternoon but was not accepted in virtue of the principle to which you have just referred.
(96. 2) 1 should like the record to show various aspects of this important session at which we are examining  a problum that affects a Member State which indicate that Unesco is subject to the decisions of the General  Committee and, if these are accepted by the Conference, that the Organization is taking a disciiminatory  ettitude towards my country.
(96. 3) 1 should like to say here, Madam President, with regard to draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 10,  svomitted by Cuba, that the present situation in Chile, so far as human rights are concerned, has been  siudied by Unesco as the following official documents show: ! refer to the summary records of the 93rd  session of the Executive Board, item 8.2; document 94 EX/49, Report by the Director-General, Mr. René  Maheu, which gives the background information supplied by a senior official of the Secretariat, Mr. Manuel  Jiménez, who visited Chile al the express request of the Director-General; and document 94 EX/$0, report  of the Committee on Conventions and Recommendations fn Education, prepared by the late lamented  Dr. Atilio Dell'Oro Malnl, which contains an analysis of the various accusations made against Chile by the  Cuban National Commission for Unesco and some non-governmental organizations. In that report it 16  made clear that not one of the charges made against Chile has been: proved. On the contrary, the report
97.  alludes very clearly to the absence of specific charges; the report was approved by the Committee with  only the representative of the Soviet Union abstaining on one particular point; but the delegate of the Soviet  Union ultimately accepted the report, I refer also to document 94 EX/INF. 8, submittedby Mr. Tikhvinsky,  the Soviet representative on the Executive Board; the summary records of the 94th sessionofthe Executive  Board, onitem 9.1; document 94 EX/Decisions, {tem 9.1, concerning action takenon 93 EX/Declsion 8, 2  and the Report of the Committee on Conventions and Recommendations in Education; document 34 EX/INF.12  submitted by the Chilean Board member Mr. Willlam Thayer in reply to thé above-mentloned document  submitted by Professor Tikhvinsky; the records of the 95th session of the Exexutive Board, with respect  to item 10.1, which deals with the documentation and background information which we have just referred  to; document 95 EX/Declslons, item 10,1, which records that the Executive Board examined the previous  docu; rents and Included, in the agenda of its 97th meeting, this same matter concerning the situation in  Chile with regard to human rights, and invited the Director-General to submit a report to it based on all  relevant {nformation received by him.
(96.4) Madam President, if the Issue of human rights in Chile, a matter which wag taken up by the Board  at its most recent sessions, had been included in the agenda of the present session of the Conference, all  the background information to which 1 have referred would have been brought to the attention of the Confer-  ence. As the question of Chile was not included in the agenda of the eighteenth sesslon of the General Con-  ference, but was brought yp directly in plenary meeting, without any type of report or documentation ro-  lating to the topic being discussed, the Conference finds itself called upon to take a stand on the speclfic  human rights tssue referred to in document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 10, submitted by Cuba, without being famillar  with the relevant official Unesco documents.
(96.5) Consequently, the delegation of Chile raises the following prior questions. First, we think that the  Conference should abstain from expressing iis views on the question ralsed by the resolution set out in the  aforementloned document, in the sixth and seventh paragraphs of its preamble and in operative paragraphs
2 and 3, so long as the official Unesco documents relating to the subject are not available to the General  Conference in plenary meeting.
(96.6) Secondly, the delegation of Chile thinks that the Conference should confine itself to transmitting to  the Board the draft resolution submitted by Cuba, requesting it, or requesting the Director-General, to  submit a report on the matter to the General Conference at its nineteenth session.
(96.7) It is our view, and we do not think anyone will object to it, that the Conference should ask the Chair-  man of the Executive Board to confirm the fact that the Board has requested the Director-General, not to  act In defence of human rights, as the representative of the Soviet Union has erroneously stated, but quite  specifically to prepare a report on the situation of education, science and culture in Chile, and to submit it  to the Board at its 97th sesslon.
(96.8) It is also extremely important that it should Indicate In what form the then Director-General, Rend  Maheu, was given this mandate by the Executive Board, what Hmitations were set on it, how he replied to  the request for {information formulated by the representative of Chile, and the scope he assigned not only  fo his mission but to the form in which the Executive Board should express itself on this major issue,
(96.9) All this, Madam President, goes to show how hastily and thoughtlessly these matters have been  dealt with, and above all the unfair treatment that my delegation has received. Yesterday I listened atten-  tively to the way in which the distinguished representatives objected to the draft resolution set out in docu-  ment 18 C/PLEN/DR. 28; how they pointed out that il quoted resolutions that were not to hand and com-  plained that the document had been prepared very rapidly; they criticized the working group, called for  asjectivily, and pointed to the need to reach a consensus if possible or even unanimity. Is it possible,  then, when it comes to a matter that ts not merely ideological or conceptual but directly affects a Member  State, {s tt possible to adopt an entirely different criterion, i.e. not only not to furnish the necessary docu-  ments or inform the Conference, but, fn addition, to bring up the matter in an absolutely irregular wayand  ask not to have oral amendments accepted, in contrast to what we did with the draft resolution that I have  just quoted? When it was asked that a discussfon be postponed because ft was sald that there was no con-  sensus and it was necessary to continue the dialogue, there was no sign of that haste with which the dis-  tinguished delegate of the United Kingdom now wishes to conclude the examination of an Issue requesting  that a document submitted by various delegations should not be taken into account, a document which seems  to him quite diferent, though if he were to examine more carefully the draft resolution submitted by Cuba  and the amendment proposed by Chile, he would see that it contains practically nothing new, except a ref-  erence that has been challenged by the representative of Cuba and which {s an almost verbatim quotation  from the Unesco Constitution.
(96.10) Madam President, I request that we decide, first of al), whether In the particular case of Chile  the General Conference wishes to apply a criterlon different from that applied in respect of other countries  and, consequenily, whether it is prepared to exemine the proposals submittéd to it, disregarding the pro-  cedures that were applied fn examining other important matters included In the agenda and without having  any background details available. That is my first request. And I belleve that if the decision of the Gen-  eral Committee Is accepted, it will be quite clear that the General Conference has endorsed that deciston,  in other words that it is applying to Chile a rule which differs from the one applied to the other Member  States,
(96.11) Secondly, 1 request that the Chalvman of the Executiv: Board and the Deputy Director-General be  instructed to provide the information that | am seeking, with regard to the form In which the Director-  General, Rend Maheu, received his mandate to prepare a report on education, science and culture in Chile,
(96.12) Lastly, Madam President, if neither of these requests were to be approved by the General Con-  ference, in other words, If the Conference decided to take a position on the question etemming from the  sixth and seventh paragraphs of the preamble of document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 10, 1 ask that it be placed on  record that it took that position without any knowledge of the relevant official documents of Unesco con-  cerning the question being discussed. Thank you, Madam President,  The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I wish to inform the delegate of Chile, as far as the draft resolution of El Salvador
47 ts concerned, that item 12,1 of the agenda was envisaged for Thursday night. Consequently, if the  draft resolution of El Salvador was sent to the Secretariat on Thursday, it was too late. And now 1  should like to ask you whether you challenge my ruling.
(98) Mr. BERGUNO (Chile) {Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President, | have ralsed a point of order and | request that the Conference decide on the  matters included in my point of order.
94. The PRESIDENT:  It was a long statement, but 1 do not know what kind of a point of order it was,
(100.1) Mr. BERGURO (Chile) (Translation from the Spanish):  It is very simple, Madam President. | am asking to have the General Conference state that in the  case of Chile it {s adopting a standard that differs from the usual one in order to examine a matter that  involves a serious accusation against a Member State. I do not challenge your ruling; [ am simply saying  and asking that you agree to have it placed on record that if the General Conference approves your decision,  this also supports what I am saying, to wit, that it has treated my country, as I have clearly shown, in a  manner that is systematically discriminatory. This is the first part of my point of order.
(100. 2) The second part, in substance, is simply that it should be placed on record that the General Con-  ference does not even wish to allow this point of order, but that it prefers to silence us - the delegate of  Cuba has often spoken of silence - and wishes to ignore a question that is fundamental to the interests of  the Organization. Thank you.
101, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Your statement will appear in the verbatim records. I put to the vote
18 C/PLEN/DR, 17. Those fn favour?
(102) Mr. BERGUNO (Chile) (Translation from the Spanish):  Point of order, Madam President. 1 am on the list of speakers. Does this mean that, in addition, you  are ignoring me? I! am down to speak. \What does this mean, Madam President? How far is this farce go-  ing to go?
103. The PRESIDENT:  I give the floor to the delegate of Guinea.
104. M. CAMARA (Guinée), -  Madame la Présidente, j'avais demandé la parole pour m'opposer à l'examen de la résolution  présentée par le délégué de El Salvador, mais comme vous avez déjà déclaré que cette résolution  est irrecevable, je n'ai plus besoin d'intervenir maintenant. Je le ferai quand nous en serons à la  discussion du projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 10,
105. The PRESIDENT:  ‘Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Italy.
106. Mme PARONETTO VALIER (Italie). -  Madame la Présidente, j'ai un amendement à proposer au projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/  DR.10. Je voudrais savoir à quel moment je pourral le présenter.
107.1 The PRESIDENT:  After the vote has been taken on 18 C/PLEN/DR. 17,
107.2 Now I give the floor to the delegate of Cuba.
(108, 2) Does this mean that Unesco, the ILO, the Economic and Socfal Council and the United Nations are  participating in that Marxist conspiracy, which fs now called discriminatory, against the sensitive servants  of ITT And othér foreign {ntérests? Are those bodies iow Marxist? Are the majorities of Member States  which voted against the misdeeds of the junta Marxists? If so, Madam President, allow me tô draw a first  éohclusion, and that 1s that the membership of Unescô's Electoral Group JI should be increased fourfold at  least - indeed I believe It would be opportune ts do so. But no, they are not Marxists, no more than ere  all eminent individuals who have been assassinated nor -others still live who. have spoken out against the  misdeeds of the junta, But let us leave It io El Mercurio, the mouthplece of the junta, of 10 November of  this year, only a few days ago, to supply the answer, and [ quote: “Some had thought that the Communist  campaign against Chile was not against Chile. It only suited” - the emphasis te mine - "the Communists.  Thé European votes, together with those of Canada, Australia and New Zealand, ‘plus à few significant  abstentions, Indicate that the attack against our country backed up by the weight of the Soviét Unfon and the  Communist blotk has penetrated deep" - and here I sfréss the phrase - "In what was formerly called ‘the  free world". This was repated in publie statements made by Mr. Plnochet.  HP ER ca . ,
(108, 3). So much for the decisions that have been taken and to show tha! this affair of Chile belongs not only  to the FLO or the United Nations, but also to Unesco and world-wide public opinion. But it should also te
580   said that precisely because it is a matter of world-wide concern and because the first report submitted by 47  the Director-General of Unesco was admittedly a pooz report, the Executive Board had to decide that it  would continue the Investigation; otherwise the Board's decision would be meaningless to bogin with, It  has also been said that this jlem was not included in the agenda, Here we must go back a hit, Quite apart  from the fact that we consider that our proposal fits perfectly well into the framework of item 12,1, two  prior aspects of the amendment contained in document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 17 must be recounted. The draft  resolution set out in document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 10 was submitted on 6 November and imrpedlately distribu-  ted. The Chilean amendment was published and distributed on .2 November. On the 16th, the General  Committee declared document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 10, submitted by Cuba, receivable, However, the Junta's  representatives presented a proposal of non-recefyability after the 12th and before the 16th, Firat, they  contradicted their own position, since In proposing amendments to document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 10, they  were recognizing its validity. The explanation glven to the Committee was that they wished to improve  the content of that document, in other words they were performing a charitable gesture, namely Improving  the text of the draft resolution submitted by Cuba, Subsequently, here, in plenary meoling, it was no  longer said that this was in order to improve Cuba's draft, but that it was a question of @ subsidiary proponal
(108. 4) Considering the dates, Madam President and fellow delegates, how ig it possible that a prior fact,  namely document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 17, should be subsidiary to a letter and a subsequent request? I do not  understand how this can logically happen. Document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 17 might have been submitted as an  amendment to any of the other resolutions submitted on questions of a general character or as an independ-  ent proposal. But what happened? it was sought, without consulting the co-authors, to have the aforemen-  tioned document appear In a subsidiary way as an amendment to document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 18, One hon-  ourable delegation stated In plenary meeting - after the matter had been discussed in the working group  set up to gather together and bring Into agreement the draft resolutions on peace - thatitdldnotaccept that  amendment, nor did it accept iis signatories as co-authors of draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 18. This  means that the 18 C/PLEN/DR. 17 ameadment ls floating about somewhere, walting for a chance at this or  some future conference to be substituted for something else. But [ should like to know whether the fact of  presenting it without taking its co-authors into account, the fact of not submitiing it In time, the fact of  contradicting by their own action what they claim they wish to do, the fact that it is really a new resolution -  since it modifies practically everything that we have submitted -* whether all this is not an irregular pro-  cedure. Or are only the procedures considered Irregular by the representatives of the Junta irregular?  We do not think so. We think furthermore that no impropriety is being committed here, nnd that the docu-  mentation is superabundant. And ! should like, if you will allow me, Madam Presldent, though this will  delay us - and I regret it, I regret it very much - to say that, in addition to the documents of which we  submitted photocopies at the 95th session of the Board, we have here two documents that are still more  recent, namely the circular to regulate the functioningofeducational establishments in the gi eater Santlago  area, dated 12 August 1974, and signed by a brigadier general, the head of the Military Educational Insti-  tutes, which fully demonstrates - and here is the document - the systematic violations of human rights in  the field of education, science and culture.
(108. 5) If this does not suffice, we may read a document from the Colegio Santa Rita, Santiago, which  states as follows: "By order of the Commander of Military Institutes, Brigadier General Don Milo Flodi  Uxter, the Rector of Coleglo Santa Rita hereby summons all the representatives to a meeting that will be  held on Tuesday, the third of September, at exactly 8 p.m., in the assembly hall of the Coleglo" - here  the name of the street is given, ''Non-compliance with the present summons will be more than sufficient  grounds for thelr irimediate detention”.
(108.6) How is it possible to say that there are no documents? Or do only some docisments of this Organi-  zation count as documents? And what is the significance of creating a compulsory subject of study called  national security, which is nothing but an exaltation of militarism? In a document that we are also submit-  ting to the Secretariat, and which is eigned by the Rear-Admiral who te Minister for Education - excuse  me, Madam President: the Admiral who Is Minister against Education - we read how teachers, sclentists  and pupils have been expelled, centres disbanded, and unspeakable regulations applied, such as this one in  the Colegio Santa Rita, to overcome through lerror not any resistance but any possitle or imaginary resist-  ance. What is this if not a document? Textbooks have been revised and the word "dzmocracy’' and demo-  cratic ideas have been expunged from them, together with whole paragraphs relating to José Martt, the  first gevat anti-imperalist thinker of Latin America who, naturally, was a man who did not subscribe to  the dean of Marx. And what about the censoring of pages concerning the election of the President of Chile  by popular vote? Recently it was reported In the Spanish press that the book Don Quijote de la Mancha and  the poem Mio Cid had been dropped from the third year of humanistic studies because the authorities  of the Junta considered them subversive and apt to inculcate perverse sentiments and ideas in youth.
(108.7) And is it not true that Chile intended, in some mysterious fashlon, to suppress d:finitively the  Latin American Soclal Science Faculty, which exists by virtue of an intergovernmental agreement? What  happened and who wanted tha( body to disappéar? And what about the statements and declarations in the  newspaper "El Mercurio" about a so-called selective education and the personal financing of studies? Is  this not a document? And what about the dropping of syllabuses branded as propagating Marxist ideas  though they were worked out by Unesco experts? hat is this if not a document? But there is no need to  go on, Madam Président. No one really has any right to present this question at the Conference with  coarse sophistry and cheap tricks and try to confuse those who, perhaps because of their geographleal  distance, or for other reasons, consider they do not have sufficlent information on the subject. But the  United Nations had sufficient information, and so did the ILO, the Economic and Soclal Council and the  World Congress of Mathematicians, recently held In Vancouver, with 500 participants, which also adopted  a resolution calling for the liberation of the priconers unjustly held in custody by the Jutta, and the World  Congress of Asthmology, recently held in Tokyo. There are no documents? Is the whole world Marxist?  Is the whole world discriminatory? Afadam President, when there is unanimity of this kind, it is impossible  to belleve that hundreds of thousands of human beings are gratuitously discriminatory. The conclusion  must te drawn that there are millions of human beings who wish to show that the violations of human rights  and the attacks on education and cultvre which are taking place In Chile, not yesterday but today, right up  to this very day - and here we have documents dating from the month of August - are a reality. This ie  not discrimination; it fe a proclamation of a truth. Thank you.
109. The PRESIDEN"  Thank you. E glve the floor to the delegate of Yugoslavia.
110, M, JOVANOVIC (Yougoslavie). -  Merci, Madame la Présidente, J'avais d'abord eu l'intention d'intervenir dans le débat, mais,  compte tenu du retard que nous avons pris, je propose formellement, pour faciliter 1theureuse con-  clusion de la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale, que le débat soit déclaré clos et que  l'on passe immédiatement au vote, Merci, Madame la Présidente,
111.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Does anybody want to speak against the motion? El Salvador is against the motion.  Are there any other speakers against the motion? 1 put to the vote the motion of Yugoslavia to close  the debate.  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
111.2 The motion is approved by 69 votes to 3, with 13 abstentions.
111.3 The delegate of Ukraine hae ‘he floor.
112. T-H B.A.KPABEU (Yxpanuckan CobeTckaHx CouHanueTHYecKan Pecny6nuKa);  fl o4eHb npomy H3BHHHTL MeHs TOB. [IpeacesaTens. 1 xoren Gy CHPOCHTb, He MOPAH AK Oh  BH MHB, NPeXAe eM JAKPHTL SACGAAUHO, NPEAOCTABHTH C/AOBO AAA TOTO, UTOOH OTBOTHTDL AeneraTty  Beanery HA sonpoc, Koroptlil OH NOCTaBHA nepea Hamel nenerauneft, Cnacubo,
(112) Mr. KRAVETS (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic) (Translation from the Russian):  Please forgive me, Madam President, | wanted to ask whether before closing the meeting, you could  let me speak in order to reply to the delegate of Belgium on a question he put to our delegation. Thank you,
113.1 The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Ukraine will be able to answer the question of the delegate of Belgium at the  beginning of the afternoon meeting.
113.2 The delegate of Chile has the floor.
(114) Mr. BERGUNO (Chile) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President: since the Conference seems to be fn a great hurry to get this matter out of the way,  I should like to ask the following question: Does the motion for closure of the debate’ mean that I shall not  be able to avail myself of my right to reply? In point of fact, | am on the list of speakers and I realize that  if the debate is closed I shall not be able lo speak, even though I am on the list of speakers, but { Intend to  retain my right to reply. If however it {8 understood that I do not have that right, we might perhaps take a  vote, in order to lighten the afternson programme a little. What do you think? Thank you, Madam President.
115. The PRESIDENT:
1 am sorry. The debate is closed. In the afternoon we shall proceed to the vote. The meet-  ing is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 1.35 p.m.  I a séance est levée à 13 h, 35  fie levanta la sesiôn a las 13.35  ZacenAanHe sakpsBaëtca B 13 u. 35 Muu.  + PR Sa BS 5 GEN Guay Sa BL J Que J I cag,