Thirty-first plenary meeting
25 November 1976 at 10.20 a.m.  President: Mr. TOWEETT (Kenya)  later: Mr. WIJEKULASURIYA (Sri Lanka)  Trente et unième séance plénière
25 Hos6p4 1976 r. B 10 4.20 MuH.  IIpexcexarerb: r-n TOYOTT (Kenus)
3aTeM r-H BUXEKY JIA CY PUA (I pu Janka)  dl, TH LAL  LL asd) ) YT I pd) eds vo  (eS)eam lb dl: put JI  (SG) Lop YS aud  REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDA TIONS  (continued)/  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION ADMINISTRATIVE : RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  (suite)  INFORME DE LA COMISION ADMINISTRATIVA: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  (continuacion)  JOKIIALL AIIMHHHCTPATHBHOÏ KOMHCCHH: PE3OJIDIIHH H PEKOMEH/AILHH (npononxenne)_  (eb) Leloÿ, Lol 15 dag od mall js  Item 49 - Working Capital Fund - level and administration (continued)
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. You will remember that at its twenty-sixth meeting  on Saturday, 20 November, the General Conference decided to adjourn the debate on the Working  Capital Fund in order to permit consideration of an amendment proposed by the delegate of Norway  to the draft resolution in paragraph 14 of document 19 €/125, the report of the Administrative  Commission.
1.2 The amendment proposed by the delegate of Norway took up a suggestion of the Divesion-  General and would amend the first part of paragraph (a) of the draft resolution as follows: the  authorized level of the Working Capital Fund for the years 1977-1978 is fixed at $16, 800, 000  representing approximately 7. 5 per cent of the total appropriation voted by the General Conference  at its nineteenth session..." the remainder of the paragraph being unchanged.
1.3 I would recall also the amendments contained in paragraph 4 of 19 C/125 Corr. as approved  by the Administrative Commission.  an amendment, which would modify
14 of document 19 C/125, to read:  at $16, 800, 000  neral Conference
1.4 The action first required of us is to vote on the Norwegi  paragraph (a) of the draft resolution set out under paragraph ass  the authorized level of the Working Capital Fund for the years 1977-1978 is fixed  representing approximately 7. 5 per cent of the total appropriation voted by the Ge  at its nineteenth session..." the remainder of the paragraph being unchanged.  (Voting was by show of hands)
31 1.5 The result of the vote is as follows: 46 votes in favour, 3 against and 27 abstentions.
1.6 The amendment is therefore adopted.
1.7 The delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany has the floor.
2.1 Mr. PETERSEN (Federal Republic of Germany):  Thank you, Mr. President. I should like to explain our vote against the amendment. My  Government is fully aware of the difficulties in which this Organization finds itself because many  governments do not find it possible to pay their contributions as and when Unesco needs the money  to meet its own obligations. Under such circumstances, the Director-General has the right and  the duty to seek appropriate solutions to overcome these difficulties, and I wish to assure him  that he can always count on our support.
2.2 However, we cannot consider an increase in the Working Capital Fund to up to $16.8 million,  or 7.5 per cent of the total appropriation, as an appropriate solution. We do not think thatarrears  of contributions should be financed from the Working Capital Fund. Such a practice is contrary to  the principle of justice; those Member States which pay their contributions punctually have to make  up for the reluctance or default of others. Instead of trying to cure the symptoms of our liquidity  problems we should once and for all tackle the evil of delayed payments itself. To overcome the  difficulties caused by delays in the payment of contributions it would be far better to abandon the  present practice of allowing Member States to pay their contributions at any time during the bien-  nium. A binding timetable for the payment of contributions should be established, and it shouldbe  stipulated that Member States are to pay their contributions at regular intervals. The Organization  should then charge interest on contributions which are not paid when due. I would like to point out  that those international organizations which proceed in this way have no liquidity problems.
2.3 Mr. President, our delegations at previous sessions of the General Conference and our repre-  sentatives on the Executive Board have time and again urged such a course, without, however, re-  ceiving support from other delegations. That is why we do not blame the Director-General for try-  ing to remedy the constant lack of funds by means of a higher proportional increase in the Working  Capital Fund. I address myself through you, Mr. President, to the members of this assembly and  venture to say that raising the level at two successive General Conferences respectively to double  the amount previously approved is not what we would consider sound financial policy.
2.4 We must not forget that raising the level of the Working Capital Fund as proposed entails a  heavy additional burden for all Member States on top of their assessed contributions. Thisis true  in particular of those Member States that pay their contributions regularly and in good time.
2.5 There is one further point: we regret to say that we cannot consider payments into the Work-  ing Capital Fund simply as advances which will later be refunded to Member States because, as far  as we remember, this has not been done in the past, nor is there much chance that it will be done  in the foreseeable future. Refunding has just not been possible because for many years now the Or-  ganization has not been able to get out of its cash difficulties. Moreover, in the present difficult  economic situation, many Member States are forced to finance their own national budgets partly by  credits for which they themselves have to pay a high amount of interest. Any additional contribu-  tions will further increase their financial burden.
2.6 In view of this we feel that it would be wiser for Unesco itself to raise short-term loans, as and  when required. As past experience has shown, Unesco can obtain far better conditions for loans  than the Member States themselves. Mr. President, I mentioned that our suggestions have not so  far met with great support. We do regret this, but we will continue to urge a just solution to our  treasury problems. The Executive Board seems to be the proper body to make the relevant recom-  mendations to the next session of the General Conference. Thank you, Mr. President.
3. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. I give the floor to the delegate of France.
4, M. THOMAS (France). -  Monsieur le Président, la délégation française s'est abstenue lors du vote sur l'amendement  norvégien, Nous sommes bien conscients des difficultés de trésorerie auxquelles l'Unesco peut  avoir bientôt à faire face, difficultés que le Directeur général nous a exposées avec tant de pré-  cision, mais une très forte augmentation du Fonds de roulement, même si celui-ci ne constitue  en principe qu'une avance, impose aux Etats membres une lourde charge. Notre gouvernement,  qui était prêt à accepter le chiffre de 12 millions de dollars retenu par la Commission administra-  tive, n'a pas jugé possible, dans les circonstances actuelles et en raison des graves difficultés  financières que la France elle aussi doit affronter, d'aller au-delà de ce chiffre. Merci, Monsieur  le Président,
5. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. May I call on the distinguished delegate of Canada?
282     g. M. BEAULNE (Canada). -  Monsieur le Président, le gouvernement canadien verse depuis trente ans 1'intégralité de s  contribution à l'Unesco à la mi-janvier, Si je comprends bien, il va devoir ame au ER  de près de 100 % sa participation au Fonds de roulement, fonds qu'il a fallu créer arce se  d'autres Etats membres ne versent pas à temps les sommes qu'ils doivent à Hep ou-  vernement s'inquiète de ce qu'à chaque session, la Conférence générale double la int au  Fonds de roulement des Etats membres qui s'acquittent de leurs obligations par la faute de ceux  qui, volontairement ou involontairement, ont accumulé des arriérés, Au rythme où s'accroft ce  déficit, cette réserve suffirait-elle à financer les dépenses courantes même si on la quadruplait ?  Il vaudrait sans doute mieux emprunter - plutôt que d'immobiliser pendant de longues périodes des  fonds fournis par les Etats membres - au cas où le Conseil exécutif autoriserait des dépenses  supplémentaires. On peut aussi s'interroger sur un système qui veut que ce soit presque toujours  les mêmes Etats membres, et parmi eux le Canada, qui sont mis à contribution, non pas néces-  sairement - semble-t-il - parce qu'ils ont des moyens supérieurs à ceux des autres, mais parce  qu'ils tiennent scrupuleusement leurs engagements. Je me permets de rappeler, Monsieur le  Président, que, si chaque Etat membre versait sa contribution en temps voulu, l'Unesco pourrait  fort bien se passer de Fonds de roulement ; c'est pour souligner cette anomalie que la délégation  canadienne a voté contre la proposition qui nous était soumise. Merci,
7. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. May I call upon the distinguished delegate of Switzerland.
8. M, SCHNYDER (Suisse). -  Monsieur le Président, eu égard aux difficultés budgétaires très sérieuses auxquelles le gou-  vernement suisse doit actuellement faire face, il n'était pas facile pour notre délégation de voter  pour l'amendement qui nous était soumis, Toutefois, nous estimons comme le Directeur général  que le niveau du Fonds de roulement, tel qu'il nous a été proposé dans cet amendement, répond à  une nécessité, si l'on veut assurer le fonctionnement de notre Organisation. Merci, Monsieur le  Président,
9. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. I call upon the distinguished delegate of Japan.
10.1 Mr. HORIGUCHI (Japan):  Thank you, Mr. President. My delegation intended to vote against the Director-General's  proposal to increase the Working Capital Fund to $16, 800,000. I regret to have to ask, Mr. Presi-  dent, that my delegation's vote should be counted as being against the amendment, and not an  abstention.
10.2 My delegation, as had stated earlier, is fully aware of the financial difficulties faced by  Unesco. However, like the delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Japanese delegation  can hardly accept the practice that it should be those Member States which pay their contributions  without delay which have to bear the burden of making up for the arrears in contributions of other  Member States. Of course, Mr. President, my delegation acknowledges the necessity for Unesco  to have a reasonable amount in the Working Capital Fund, but considering the level of the present  proposed budget ceiling of Unesco, a Working Capital Fund of more than $10, 000, 000 can hardly  be justified.
10.3 Mr. President, my delegation understands that at the ILO Council now being held in Geneva,  one of the items on the agenda concerns means of filling the gap between the Organization's ex-  pected revenue and its actual revenue, necessitated by one important Member State's arrears in  contributions for several years. One of the formulae by which it is proposed to deal with this situ-  ation - a formula of which we are in favour - is called the WHO formula, which consists in setting  aside the contribution which is apparently not to be paid, from the revenue, and formulating an ap-  propriation within the limits of the income which is actually expected. Mr. President, my delega-  tion wishes the Director-General to consider such a formula as one of the formulae to solve this  financial crisis. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
11. The PRESIDENT: eb  Thank you very much. May I call upon the distinguished delegate of the Philippines.
12. Mr. BARADI (Philippines):  Mr. President, my delegation voted for the Norwegian amendment to express our support for  the request of the Director-General of Unesco to increase the Working Capital Fund to a level which  would enable him to have the necessary flexibility to meet emergency expenditures, even before the  receipt of income from trust funds, special accounts, international agencies and other extra-  budgetary sources. It is not fair that additional worry concerning the source of funds needed, but  not available, to meet immediate obligations should be imposed on the shoulders of the Director-  General who has enough problems to fill his days to the brim. We believe, Mr. President, that  à positive response to the request of the Director-General, which does not entail any extra-  budgetary implications, is only fair and just. Thank you.
13. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of the Phi  the Ivory Coast.  lippines and call upon the distinguished delegate of
31 14. M, KANGA (Côte d'Ivoire). -  Monsieur le Président, je tiens simplement à dire que la délégation de la Côte d'Ivoire, qui  n'a malheureusement pas été en mesure de participer au vote, se serait prononcée en faveur de  l'amendement tendant à relever le Fonds de roulement. Merci.
15.1 The PRESIDENT: ;  The remarks of the previous speakers will of course appear In the records.
15.2 We shall now proceed to vote on the draft resolution contained in paragraph 14 of document
19 C/125, as a whole.  (Voting was by show of hands.)
15.3 The result of the vote is as follows: 74 votes in favour, 4 against and 21 abstentions. The  resolution is therefore adopted.
15.4 Before we go on to the next item, I call upon the Deputy Director-General, Mr. Fobes, to  address the Conference.
16.1 The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  Mr. President, the Secretariat has noted with appreciation and understanding the observations  made by a number of delegates in respect of the Working Capital Fund. Naturally we appreciate in  particular the remarks of the delegate of the Philippines but we have also heard the other remarks  with a considerable amount of understanding. I would like to make three observations.
16.2 First, at the end of December this year - the end of this biennium - all of the current bills of  Unesco will be paid, but in order to pay those bills we will have used, $22 million of loans from  Member States, $8 million of the Working Capital Fund, $3 million from special accounts which  are under our complete control and probably $3 million from other accounts such as trust funds,  which I consider to be a questionable practice the alternative to which, of course, is commercial  loans. In other words, to pay those bills we will in fact be in debt to the tune of $36 million.
16.3 Secondly, reference has been made to arrears of contributions and to the problem of dealing  with such arrears. I would only note that such arrears have always been financed or covered from  the Working Capital Fund in the first instance, and this not only by Unesco but by all organizations  of the United Nations system. It is true, however, that the Director-General is interested inlisten-  ing to Member States and finding the most appropriate means of obtaining cash while waiting for  contributions to be paid. It is true also, as noted by the Federal Republic of Germany, that this  subject has come before the Executive Board where it has not perhaps received due attention and  where, perhaps, not all of the possibilities have been fully explored. In fact the Executive Board  did not appear to want to give consideration to one of those possibilities which was to charge inter-  est after a certain time-limit for the payment of contributions had been passed. One might also  even consider whether governments that place advances with Unesco to help it with its working cash  and have to borrow on public debt to make such advances would like to install a system whereby  Unesco pays interest to those countries willing to make advances to our Working Capital Fund, I  think there are a great many possibilities here, and I want to say that the Director-General, in his  report to the Executive Board on the collection of contributions and on the general financial situation,  will endeavour to give the Executive Board a fuller report mentioning all these possibilities so as to  allow the Executive Board, as requested by some delegates, to give fuller consideration to the matter  than it has in the past.
16.4 Before my third observation, I would like to recall statements that I personally remember in  the United Nations and in other agencies by Member States when it came to discussing working capi-  tal. Some Member States felt very strongly that a public international organization should not have  to turn to commercial borrowing to find its money and that the only appropriate borrowing for such  a public international organization was from governments themselves.
16.5 My third observation deals with what happens in the future. Beginning in April 1977, the  Director-General will again begin significant borrowing in order to have cash to pay bills - and this  after, as I say, he has already drawn upon these various sources up to a total of $36 million in  order to get through this biennium. For such borrowing he will utilize the authorization, given to  him by the Conference under item 48.3 of the agenda (Collection of contributions), to borrow from  "lenders of his choice". I note, in this connection, that the General Conference has left this auth-  orization quite wide and that it has not offered any particular guidance as to the lenders to which  the Director-General may turn.
16.6 Mr. President, I felt that this information - on our current financial situation, on the Director-  General's willingness to help the Executive Board examine more carefully this problem of cash, and  thirdly on the prediction that the Organization will engage in significant new borrowing beginning in  April from any lenders that are available, chosen by the Director-General - should be noted by all  Member States. Thank you.
17.1 The PRESIDENT;  I thank Mr. Fobes for those observations.
284     Item 49 - Fund to assist Member States in acquiring educational an - d scientifi ri  necessary for technological development (continued) cmatenial
17.2 I now draw your attention to the resolution contained in paragraph 15 of document 19 C/125  concerning the Fund to assist Member States in acquiring educational and scientific material neces-  sary for technological development, which also comes under item 49.
17.3 Since no delegation asks for a vote, I take it that the resolution is adopted.
17.4 I now call upon the Chairman of the Administrative Commission to wind up this long story.
18:1 Mr. MARTIN (United Kingdom), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Mr. President, as we have come to the end of what you have just called a long story, I would  like to make just one or two more remarks. The first is in a sense a small addition to the report  of the Rapporteur. I would just like to tell the Conference in plenary that on three or four occasions  during the work of the Administrative Commission, the representatives of the Staff Association  asked to be allowed to make statements. With the agreement of the Commission and with one ex-  ception, I agreed to this and they in fact made their statements.
18.2 Next, Mr. President, I would like to express my very warm thanks to the three Vice-Chairmen  who helped with the work of the Commission. These Vice- Chairmen were Monsieur Diene of  Senegal, Mr. Kotchoubei of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and Dr. Upraity of Nepal. I  would like to say a special word of thanks to the Rapporteur, Mr. Hiraoka. When the Commission  began its work, we were for a day or so in great difficulties over finding a Rapporteur. Eventually,  Mr. Hiraoka was persuaded to take on the task and as you will have heard in the plenary meetings  that have dealt with the report, he discharged this task very ably and very effectively and I am sure  the whole Commission has been very grateful to him.
18.3 Last, Mr. President, I would also like to thank the Commission's Secretary, Mr. Venning,  his assistant, Mr. Deane, and a number of other people who worked behind the scenes to make the  Commission's work go smoothly. We drove them all pretty hard, or perhaps more correctly, I  should say that I drove them all pretty hard, but they managed to keep up with us and they never  let us down and we are indeed grateful to them as well. Thank you, Mr. President.
19. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. On your behalf, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Adminis-  trative Commission for the work that it has done, its Chairman for his patience in the steering of  that Commission, the Rapporteur for his ability to give us the report that we had, the Administra-  tive Commission members for the work that they did, and also to thank all the others whom I have  not been able to name individually.  DECENTRALIZATION OF UNESCO'S ACTIVITIES (document 19 C/DR. 263 Rev.)  DECENTRALISATION DES ACTIVITES DE L'UNESCO (document 19 C/DR. 263 Rev.)  DECENTRALIZACION DE LAS ACTIVIDADES DE LA UNESCO (documento 19 C/DR. 263 Rev. )  JENEHTPAJIH3AINHA NEA TEJIBHOCTH DHECKO (x0oxymeur 19 C/DR. 263 Rev.)  (Jose YY Sp/p) 4 sJl) sSwspd) abl 45. Y
20.1 The PRESIDENT;  Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us, under item 16 of our Agenda (Consideration of the  Draft Programme and Budget for 1977-1978) a draft amendment to proposed resolution 6. 22 in docu-  ment 19 C/124, the report of Programme Commission II. The reference is to section 6.2 - Oper-  ational Support Services - in Part II, Chapter 6, of document 19 G/5.
20.2 I will now call upon the distinguished delegate of Australia to introduce this draft amendment  which is found in document 19 C/DR. 263 Rev.,
21.1 Mr. PHILP (Australia):  Thank you, Mr. President. I have great pleasure in introducing document 19 C/DR. 263 Rev.  This document, as you know, is a revision of proposed resolution 6. 22 in document 19 C/ 124, which  is itself based on document 19 C/DR. 54. In speaking of this draft resolution, may I first pay tribute  to my colleagues on the working group - the representatives of Colombia, India, New Zealand and  Egypt - and may I remark, Mr. President, that the name of the representative of Egypt, by some  regrettable and unfortunate oversight, has been omitted from the list of members of the working >  group. Mr. President, I should be grateful if this omission could be rectified in the official vx  and the name of Egypt's representative, Dr. El-Wakil, who was a most helpful member of the work-  ing group, restored to that list.  to say. The tenor of this revised resolution is that  activities nearer to the people those activities are  en 19 C/DR.263 Rev. and the original 19 C/DR. 54
21.2 There is, I think, very little more I need  of the earlier one - the need to bring Unesco's  designed to serve. The major difference betwe
31 is that the present document is expressed in terms which are not in breach of the Constitution. I  hope - and indeed, believe - that we are all, as the Director-General himself is, in favour of Steady,  planned decentralization of Unesco's activities. The draft resolution is essentially, I think an ex.  pression of confidence in the measures the Director-General has already taken and has told us he  plans to take, in this regard. Mr. President, I have much pleasure in commending the draft rego].  ution to you, and hope that it will be accepted unanimously. Thank you, Mr. President.
22.1 The PRESIDENT: ;  Thank you very much. Does any delegate want us to take a vote on this, or do we approve it?
22.2 There being no objections, I declare the resolution contained in document 19 C/DR. 263 Rev.  to be adopted.
22.3 The delegate of the United States of America has the floor.
23. Mr. SLEEPER (United States of America):  Thank you, Mr. President. I would just like to ask, Mr. President, if the representative of  the Director-General might be able to give us an interpretation of the words in paragraph 3 where  the resolution that we just adopted recommends to the Director-General "that he continues to re-  inforce the regional offices and centres''. I would be interested in knowing the interpretation be-  cause the original draft resolution, contained in document 19 C/DR. 54, submitted by India, called,  in somewhat more precise language, for the regional offices and centres to be given adequate re-  sponsibilities and authority to take decisions on Unesco projects, and I notice that the Director-  General's comments on the original draft resolution indicate that he had no objection to the resolu-  tion. The explanation would help several of us to understand better what might be meant by the  words ''to reinforce’. Thank you very much.
24. The PRESIDENT:  May I call upon Mr. Fobes to provide further explanation.
25.1 The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  Mr. President, the Director-General welcomes the resolution you just adopted because it is  put in general terms and constitutes policy guidance for him which he will certainly follow. In re-  spect of paragraph 3, I can say that the Director-General interprets it in a very broad sense and  very much along the lines of the original proposal in 19 C/DR. 54 which came from India. When  we talk about reinforcing regional offices and centres and staffing them with the necessary person-  nel, we really think first of the deconcentration of functions and responsibilities to those offices  and centres. In other words, we do not just transfer staff to the centres and the offices, but make  an effort first of all to pass functions and responsibilities to those centres and offices including re-  sponsibilities for closer liaison with Member States in a region and, wherever possible, for deci-  sions in respect of various aspects of Unesco projects. Once functions and responsibilities are  transferred then obviously the necessary staff must go to reinforce the centres. But the reinforce-  ments constitute first of all decision-making functions and responsibilities even before staff are  transferred. This is not an easy task, we know, but we are working on it and we are making slow  progress and will continue to try to pass on to those offices these decision-making functions and  responsibilities on projects.
26. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. I hope the distinguished delegate of the United States is satisfied with  that clarification.  REPORT OF PROGRAMME COMMISSION I: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDA TIONS  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION DU PROGRAMME I : RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISION DEL PROGRAMA I: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  HOKJAI KOMUCCHH NO MPOTPAMME I: PE3SOMONNH H PEKOMEHTAINNH/  = … .  Lebeosty Lalli: Gh ELA dad pi
27. The PRESIDENT:  : Ladies and gentlemen, the next item on our agenda for today is the presentation of recommen-  dations by Programme Commission I. I now have pleasure in calling upon the Chairman of Pro-  gramme Commission I, H.E. Dr. Abdelwahab El Borolossy of Egypt, to introduce this report.  HI bpd Biddy) pdd ted] —YA
(28) M. EL BOROLOSSY (Egypte) (président de la Commission du programme I), -  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Il m'est agréable d'informer votre Excellence et la Conférence géné-  rale que la Commission du programme I, malgré le nombre et l'importance des questions qui lui étaient  soumises dans les domaines des sciences sociales et des sciences exactes et naturelles, a achevé ses  travaux dans les délais prescrits. Bien que ses réunions aient occupé vingt-six séanceside travail, plu-  sieurs de ses membres ont eu le sentiment que le temps imparti à l'examen de certains points n'était pas  suffisant. Si je fais état de ce sentiment, c'est dans l'espoir que le Secrétariat pourra peut-être envisager  une nouvelle méthode qui permettrait de consacrer plus de temps à l'examen de certains sujets importants  lors de la prochaine session de la Conférence générale, Au cours de la séance d'hier, qui était la dernière  la Commission a entendu le rapport oral sur ses travaux et a pris connaissance du document 19 C/122 ’  contenant les résolutions adoptées par la Commission et qu'elle a recommandé de soumettre a la plénière  Vous noterez, Monsieur le Président, qu'un deuxième document portant la cote 19 C/122 Add, 2 Corr. 2,  annexé au premier, contient les amendements adoptés par la Commission au cours du débat de la séance  d'hier, Et maintenant, je vous prie, Monsieur le Président, d'inviter le rapporteur de la Commission à  donner lecture du rapport oral établi par la Commission sur ses travaux, ainsi que des projets de résolu-  tion que nous prions la Conférence générale de bien vouloir adopter, Merci, Monsieur le Président.  (Mr. Wijekulasuriya, Sri Lanka, took the chair. )
29. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Dr. El Borolossy. I now give the floor to the Rapporteur of Programme  Commission I, Dr. D.S. Nkunika of Zambia.
30.1 Mr. NKUNIKA (Zambia), Rapporteur of Programme Commission I:  Mr. President, thank you very much for giving me the floor to present the report of Programme  Commission I (Natural Sciences and Social Sciences). In accordance with the decisions adopted by  the General Conference on the organization of the work of its nineteenth session, Programme Com-  mission I dealt with the following items of the Conference agenda:  Item 13 - Draft Medium- Term Plan for 1977-1982  and  Item 16- Consideration of the Programme and Budget for 1977-1978 (in so far as these items  concern the consideration of Discussion Units 1-7)  Item 33 - Desirability of revising the Recommendation concerning international competitions  in architecture and town planning, adopted by the General Conference at its ninth  session (document 19 C/97)  Item 66 - International Year for Science and Technology (document 19 C/98),
30.2 Discussion on these items took place in the course of the Commission's second to twenty-  sixth meetings held from Monday, 8 November, to Saturday, 20 November 1976. The recommen-  dations of the Commission concerning these items will be found in document 19 G/122, to which I  shall refer during my report. The same document contains, in an annex, the "guidance notes' re-  lating to the objectives of 19 C/4 examined by the Commission.
30.3 Our Commission, together with Commissions II and III and the Administrative Commission,  considered the following items during joint meetings held on Tuesday, 23 and Wednesday, 24 Novem-  ber 1976, namely:  Item 39 - Relationship between the Medium- Term Plan and the biennial programme and budget,  and the calendar for 1977-1978 for the preparation of the draft programme and budget  and, if necessary, of a document relating to the adjustments to be made to the Medium-  Term Plan (document 19 C/88); and  Item 17- Adoption of the Appropriation Resolution for 1977-1978,
30.4 Thus, my report will cover the deliberations of Programme Commission I regarding Discus-  sion Units 1-7 and items 33 and 66.
30.5 Given the extremely valuable contribution that so many delegations were prepared to make  during the examination of the programme, it is quite understandable that some of them would have  wished to express their views more exhaustively than was possible within the time limits of the  Commission. I should also like to emphasize that, due to the reporting procedures adopted for the  present session of the General Conference, my report can only highlight the most salient features  of the extremely rich debates.
31 Social sciences (Discussion Units 1-4)
30.6 Mr. President, may I turn to the social sciences beginning with Discussion Unit 1. In the  first part of my report, I shall deal with the objectives of document 19 C/4 and the sections of docu-  ment 19 C/5 grouped under Discussion Units 1, 2, 3 and 4. This part of the report will be divideq  into four Discussion Units, dealing respectively with (i) human rights and peace, (ii)development,  (iii) population, and (iv) the aspects of social science programmes concerning the international ge.  velopment of the social sciences, socio-economic analysis, youth, philosophy and interdisciplinary  co-operation and the Social Science Sector's operational activities, Regional Office and the Office  of the Assistant Director-General for Social Sciences and their Applications.
30.7 Throughout the discussion on these four units, the Commission considered document
19 C/PRG.1/2,_ presenting the results of a preliminary examination of draft resolutions, amend-  ments and other proposals submitted by Member States during the first meeting of the Commis-  sion's Officers with the sponsors held on 5 November 1976.  Discussion Unit 1 - Human Rights and Peace
30.8 The objectivesrelating to human rights and peace - 19 C/4, Objectives 1.1, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 2.1,
2.2, 2.3, 6.3 - and the projects proposed by the Director-General in Section 3.17 and in part of  Sections 3.18 and 1.14 of document 19 C/5 were welcomed by the Commission, which attached a  great deal of importance to these priority areas.
30.9 During the discussion on the relevant objectives, a suggestion was made that Objective 1.3be  merged with Objective 6. 3, which was reflected in the guidance note annexed to document19 C/122.
30.10 In accordance with the wishes of the General Committee, the item relating to disarmament  was referred to the plenary, under item 72.
30.11 As explained in paragraph 3 of document 19 C/122, the Commission has no programme  resolution to recommend for Section 3.17 because the resolution proposed by the Director-General  is being considered along with the proposed amendments contained in documents 19 C/DR. 142 and
19 C/DR. 226 by the Drafting and Negotiation Group in accordance with the decision of the Commis-  sion to refer the matter to the Group, which will present it directly to the plenary.
30.12 The work plan relating to Section 3.17 was welcomed by the Commission. Within the frame-  work of Project 3.17.1, it should be noted that provision will have to be made in paragraph 3166 for  work on the Declaration on Race and Racial Prejudice, the adoption of which has been postponed to  the twentieth session of the General Conference.
30.13 The work plan in paragraphs 3166-3177 was noted along with documents 19 C/DR.3 and
19 C/DR. 204 with the understanding that the project proposed in 19 C/DR. 3 would be undertaken  by the Division of Human Rights and Peace and funded through the Participation Programme, and  that the meeting proposed in 19 C/DR. 204 could be financed by savings in other projects and with  the assistance of the governments concerned.
30.14 On the subjects of the promotion of peace research and the study of international law and  international organizations (19 C/5, paragraphs 3184 and 3185 of Projects 3.17.3 and 3.17.4,  paragraphs 3186 to 3197) the Commission considered documents 19 C/DR. 40, 19 C/DR. 41,
19 C/DR.105, 19 C/DR.109 and 19 C/DR. 166 in addition to draft resolution 19 C/DR.3. The  Commission recommends that the General Conference note draft resolutions 19 C/DR. 40,
19 C/DR. 41, 19 C/DR. 105 and 19 C/DR.166. It was understood that documents 19 C/DR. 105 and
19 C/DR. 166 aim to give an international rather than an intergovernmental character to the project  lInterpeace'', and to reinforce the peace research programme without necessarily making the proj-  ect changes proposed.
30.15 Draft resolution 19 C/DR. 109, as amended, set out a number of principles which should  guide Unesco's programme in the field of peace research. This draft resolution, which appears  in paragraph 9 of document 19 C/122, was supported by many delegations and the Commission ap-  proved it by 63 votes in favour, with none against and one abstention.
30.16 With regard to Project 3.18. 3 of Section 3.18 on Philosophy and Interdisciplinary Co-  operation, draft resolution 19 C/DR. 141 was noted, it being understood that in paragraph 3220  the word "tolerance"! would be replaced by "mutual understanding and co-operation’, and that no  other changes in the work plan would have to be made.
30.17 On the subject of the promotion of the status of women in general, draft resolution 19 C/DR. 210,  as amended with the agreement of the sponsors, was approved unanimously (see document 19 C/122,  paragraph 10) and draft resolution 19 C/DR. 122, relating to the same project, was noted.
30.18 Part of Section 1.14 of document 19 C/5 was considered and the Commission adopted, by
37 votes to 3, with 15 abstentions, an amendment contained in draft resolution 19 C/DR. 158, and  then approved by 59 votes to none, with 3 abstentions, the amended version of resolution 1.14.1  which is found in paragraph 5 of document 19 C/122. It was pointed out that a distinction should
288     pe made in this programme between migrant workers and migratory workers. The Commission  also approved by 65 votes to none, with 3 abstentions, resolution 1.14.2 (sestpare raph 6 of
19 C/122). It should be noted that part of the work plan in this section Was also rr by  Commission II. The Commission took note of those parts of the work plan assigned to hile  Unit 1, as well as documents 19 C/DR. 71 and 19 C/DR. 84. The Commission furtt  draft resolutions 19 C/DR. 37 and 19 C/DR. 119. Fi re ie
30.19 While noting the work plans and relevant draft resolutions for each of the sections mentioned  above, the Commission took note of the corresponding provision for the budget and for the staff  (see 19 C/122, paragraphs 11-13).
30.20 A proposal to include the words "and fundamental freedoms for individuals and for groups"  after the expression "human rights" in Objective 1.1, was accepted and the Commission recom -  mended that the General Conference approve this objective as amended.  paragraph 1 of the Commission's recommendations (19 C/122).  The amended text is in
30.21 The Commission also recommended that the other objectives relating to this unit - namely
1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 2.1, 2.3 and 6.3 - be approved without change and tHat the average biennial growth  rates for all the objectives in this unit be noted by the General Conference (cf. document19 G/122,  paragraphs 1-2).
30.22 Mr. President, that concludes the report for Discussion Unit 1.
31.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Rapporteur of Programme Commission I. The first matter for decision now by the  General Conference is approval of the objectives relating to Discussion Unit 1. The Commission  recommended that Objective 1. 1 be amended. The amended version was approved by the Commis-  sion by 48 votes in favour, none against and one abstention. Paragraph 1 of document 19 C/122  contains the amended text of Objective 1.1 which I now put to the Conference.
31.2 There being no objections, I declare that text to be approved.
31.3 Next, the Commission by 58 votes in favour, none against and 4 abstentions, recommended  Objective 2.2 for approval by the Conference.
31.4 I declare Objective 2.2 approved. Thank you.
31.5 The other objectives considered under this Discussion Unit are 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 2.1, 2.3 and
6.3 which were approved unanimously.
31.6 Those objectives are approved by the Conference,
31.7 The delegate of China has the floor on a point of order.
32. M. CHANG WEI (Chine) (déclaration faite en chinois, texte français établi d'après  l'interprétation). -  En ce qui concerne le document 19 C/4, nous avons déjà exprimé l'opinion de la délégation  chinoise à la réunion commune des quatre commissions ; je n'ai donc pas besoin de la répéter ici,  Nous constatons en outre que dans l'annexe au document 19 C/122, la pacotille du désarmement  fictif colportée par l'Union soviétique est introduite dans les paragraphes relatifs aux objectifs 2,1  et 3.1 et à d'autres objectifs : nous ne pouvons l'accepter. Je demande que la position de principe  que la délégation chinoise a exposée soit consignée dans le compte rendu de la séance. Merci,  Monsieur le Président.
33.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, it will be done.
33.2 The Commission also recommended that the average biennial growth rates for these objectives  as shown in paragraphs 1139, 1135, 1435, 1524, 2129, 2220, 2314 and 6318 of document 19 C/4 be  noted.
33.3 The average biennial growth rates shown in those paragraphs are accordingly noted.
33.4 The Commission recommended that the Conference take note of the guidance notes for Objec-  tives 1.1, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 2.1, 2.3 and 6.3 in the Annex to document 19 C/122 and the Addendum  and Corrigendum to that document.
33.5 I declare those guidance notes to be noted.
33.6 As regards Section 3.17, we are told that the Drafting and Negotiation Group is to present the  draft resolution. I call upon the Secretary of the Conference to make a statement on behalf of the  Chairman of the Group.
31 34, Le SECRETAIRE. -  Monsieur le Président, le Président du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation participe en ce  moment à une séance plénière de ce groupe. Il m'a demandé de donner lecture du texte suivant :  "Au sein du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation, il a été décidé de recommander à la Conférence  générale l'adoption du projet de résolution 3. 17 présenté dans le document 19 C/5; les projets de  résolution 19 C/DR, 142 et 19 C/DR. 226 ont donc été, d'un commun d'accord, reconnus sans objet",  Merci, Monsieur le Président.
35.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. As you have heard, draft resolution 3.17 in document 19 C/5 has the unanimous  approval of the Drafting and Negotiation Group and I now put it to the Conference.
35.2 There being no objections, I declare the resolution to be adopted.
35.3 Concerning Section 3.17 the Commission recommended that the work plan in paragraphs 3160  to 3199 and the budget provision in paragraph 3158 be noted. I give the floor to the delegate of China,
36. M. CHANG WEI (Chine) (déclaration faite en chinois, texte français établi d'après  l'interprétation). -  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais savoir exactement de quel projet de résolution il s'agit  lorsqu'on parle du projet de résolution 3.17,
37. The PRESIDENT:  The Secretary will now make a statement.
38. The SECRETARY:  Mr. President, resolution 3.17 is the original resolution contained in paragraph 3159 of docu-  ment 19 C/5. It has now been adopted by the General Conference without change. Thank you,  Mr. President.
39. The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany has the floor.
40.1 Mr. PETERSEN (Federal Republic of Germany):  Mr. President, I should like firstly to refer to document 19 C/122, paragraph 11. In this  paragraph the Commission recommends that we take note of the work plan in paragraphs 3160 to
3199, relating to Section 3.17 of document 19 C/5. There appears to be a misprint in the English  text of paragraph 11 of document 19 C/122 which should refer to document 19 C/5 and not to docu-  ment 19 C/4.
40.2 Secondly, two paragraphs, namely paragraphs 3185 and 3192 of document 19 C/5, provide  for activities which are expressly referred to as follow-up action to the Final Act of the Conference  on Security and Co-operation in Europe. According to paragraph 3185 of document 19 C/5, a mono-  graph is to be devoted to the implications for international law of the Final Act of the Conference on  Security and Co-operation in Europe. According to the other paragraph, namely paragraph 3192 of  the same document, an international symposium on "The effects of the coming into force of the inter-  national covenants on human rights!’ in the light of the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference on Se-  curity and Co-operation in Europe, is to be held.
40.3 The Director-General agreed to include in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1977-1978  programme activities mutually agreed upon by the Member States signatories of the Final Act and  intended to assist in the implementation of the provisions of that document. A list of such projects  was submitted by European and North American Member States to the Director-General and it was  understood that this list should be exclusive in the sense that the Director-General should not in-  clude in the programme any projects implementing the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference which  were not agreed upon by the European and North American Member States. Mr. President, the two  projects I mentioned were not agreed upon and our representative in the Executive Board has gone  on the record of that organ of our Organization with this observation and reserved our right to ask  for a deletion of those two paragraphs. At this session of the General Conference, Mr. President  our delegation made an attempt in the Commission not to have these paragraphs taken note of, but  we did not insist on deletion after the representative of the Director-General stated - and I hope our  memory is correct - that these projects were an independent activity of Unesco. We are of the  opinion, however, that it is not within Unesco's mandate to take such action with regard to the Final  Act of the Helsinki Conference, without such action being mutually agreed upon by all Member States  signatories of the Final Act. Mr. President, I mention this in the plenary meeting just for the sake  of correctness. I will not make a formal proposal for deletion at this stage but I would wish it tobe  recorded that my delegation would expect that these activities (the study and the symposium) should  not be executed, just as many other activities of minor importance will have to be sacrificed for the  sake of the efficient execution of the many important additional programmes approved at this session  of the General Conference. Thank you, Mr. President.
41. The PRESIDENT:  I give the floor to the honourable delegate of Canada.
49, M. BEAULNE (Canada). -  Monsieur le Président, la délégation du Canada voudrait exprimer les mêmes rés  celles que vient de formuler l'honorable délégué de la République fédérale d'Allema ments oo nement canadien ne saurait considérer d'un oeil favorable des interprétations A et Te de 1'Acte final d'Helsinki qui seraient diffusées sans l'autorisation ou à l'insu des si i = d cet Acte. Merci, Monsieur le Président, HE
43. The PRESIDENT:  I now call upon the Director-General to make some comments on this matter.
44.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL, -  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais répondre d'abord à l'observation formulée par le repré-  sentant de la République fédérale d'Allemagne quant au consensus qui doit être réalisé au sein de  l'Organisation pour que puissent être incluses dans le programme des activités découlant de l'adop-  tion de l'Acte final de la Conférence sur la sécurité et la coopération en Europe. Permettez-moi  d'abord de rappeler à cet égard que l'Acte final d'Helsinki mentionne expressément l'Unesco ; les  Etats européens qui ont signé cet Acte et qui ont adopté la Déclaration finale ont estimé en effet  que l'Unesco devait apporter une contribution dans le domaine de ses compétences, J'ai estimé  pour ma part qu'il fallait, bien entendu, arriver au consensus le plus large entre les Etats euro-  péens ayant participé à la Conférence d'Helsinki en ce qui concerne toutes les activités relatives  à la mise en oeuvre de l'Acte final qui devaient être incluses dans le Projet de programme et de  budget pour 1977-1978, J'ai dit que je tiendrais le plus grand compte à cet égard des suggestions  que feraient les Etats membres européens, mais j'ai ajouté aussi que je ne me laisserais pas en-  fermer par l'accord ou le désaccord entre les Etats membres. En définitive, toutefois, j'ai  accepté de n'inscrire dans le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1977-1978 que les activités  sur lesquelles le consensus était réalisé entre les différents Etats membres européens,
44,2 Je voudrais cependant faire remarquer que les activités qui sont prévues aux para-  graphes 3185 et 3192 du document 19 C/5 ne concernent pas la coopération entre les Etats euro-  péens, L'Acte final de la Conférence d'Helsinki est un instrument international auquel ont souscrit  un certain nombre d'Etats européens mais il ne présente pas de l'intérêt pour ces seuls Etats : il  peut aussi fournir des sujets d'études qui débordent le cadre des programmes de coopération euro-  péenne découlant de l'Acte final et de la Déclaration, Vous remarquerez que le projet 3.17. 3 dont  relève le paragraphe 3185 est intitulé "Promotion de l'enseignement des droits de l'homme et de  l'étude du droit international et des organisations internationales'. Les Etats européens qui ont  souscrit à l'Acte d'Helsinki ne peuvent pas le considérer comme ne rentrant pas dans le cadre du  droit international et ne pouvant donner lieu à d'autres études susceptibles d'intéresser au-delà  de l'Europe, la communauté internationale tout entière. Au paragraphe 3185 du document 19 C/5,  il est dit qu'on envisage la préparation de plusieurs études, également destinées à l'enseignement  supérieur, sur le thème ''Le droit international face aux nouveaux défis de la vie internationale"  et qu'en 1977-1978, deux de ces études seront consacrées aux conséquences sur le droit interna-  tional de l'Acte final de la Conférence sur la sécurité et la coopération en Europe, d'une part, et  des décisions des Nations Unies relatives à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique interna-  tional, d'autre part'. A mon avis, le fait que les Etats européens ont souserit à l'Acte final  d'Helsinki ne suffit pas à leur donner le droit d'interdire que cet Acte fasse l'objet d'études de  droit international,
44.3 J'en viens maintenant au paragraphe 3192 du document 19 C/5 qui relève du projet 3.17.4 :  Promotion de la recherche sur la paix (objectif 2.1) ; ce paragraphe prévoit qu'''un contrat sera  conclu avec des instituts européens spécialisés pour l'organisation hors Siège, en 1977, d'un col-  loque international sur le thème "Les effets de l'entrée en vigueur des pactes internationaux rela-  tifs aux droits de l'homme, à la lumière de 1'Acte final d'Helsinki sur la sécurité et la coopéra-  tion en Europe''. Ce projet n'a, lui non plus, rien à voir avec la coopération européenne en tant  que telle.
44,4 Il appartient donc à la Conférence générale de décider si elle estime que dans le cadre des  études générales d'une organisation internationale comme l'Unesco, il faut exclure toute référence  à l'Acte d'Helsinki ou qu'au contraire cet Acte, étant un instrument de droit international, peut  rentrer dans le cadre des études générales que fait l'Organisation, Je souligne en outre à l'inten-  tion du représentant de la République fédérale d'Allemagne qu'il n'est pas dit aux paragraphes 3185  et 3192 que seuls les Etats européens participeront à ces études, Même si un contrat est conclus  avec des instituts européens pour l'organisation du colloque prévu au paragraphe 3182, 0 n'en est  pas moins certain que ce colloque intéresse les spécialistes du droit international où qu LE: se  trouvent dans le monde et non pas seulement les spécialistes européens, Je veux donc espérer que  les explications que je viens de donner calmeront les appréhensions du représentant de Ia Répu-  blique fédérale d'Allemagne ; je tiens en tout cas a l'assurer que j'entends respecter le crnssiqus  qui a été réalisé dans le cadre des consultations entre Etats européens au sein de l'Unesco et qu'a  l'avenir je continuerai à consulter ces Etats et à tenir compte de leurs avis pour l'élaboration de  tout programme relatif à l'Acte final de la Conférence d'Helsinki, Je vous remercie, Monsieur le  Président.
45. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the honourable delegate of the United States of  America.
31 46. Mr. SLEEPER (United States of America): :  Thank you, Mr. President. I would just like to say that the delegation of the United States ag.  sociates itself completely with the statement just made by the delegate of the Federal Republic of  Germany on this issue. Thank you.
47. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much.  floor.  I call on the delegate of the People's Republic of China to take the
48. M. CHANG WEI (Chine) (déclaration faite en chinois, texte français établi d'après  l'interprétation). - a  Monsieur le Président, la délégation chinoise soutient la position exprimée par la délégation  de la République fédérale d'Allemagne. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
49.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Concerning Section 3.17, the Commission recommended that the work plan in  paragraphs 3160 to 3199 and the budget provision in paragraph 3158 be noted.
49.2 I declare those paragraphs to be noted.
49.3 Can we also note documents 19 C/DR.3, 19 C/DR. 40, 19 C/DR.41, 19 C/DR. 105,
19 C/DR. 166 and 19 C/DR. 204?
49.4 Those draft resolutions are duly noted.
49.5 Two draft resolutions were recommended for adoption under Section 1.14. The first is  resolution 1.14.1, which was approved, with an amendment, by 59 votes to none, with 3 absten-  tions. Can we adopt that resolution, as amended, which is set out in paragraph 5 of document
49.6 The resolution is adopted.
49.7 Resolution 1.14.2 was recommended for adoption by 65 votes in favour, none against and
3 abstentions. Can we now adopt this resolution as it stands in paragraph 6 of document 19 C/122?
49.8 The resolution is adopted.
49.9 The work plan for section 1.14 which we are asked to note is found in paragraphs 1062 to
1108 of document 19 C/5 and the budget provision is in paragraph 1059 and the staff establishment  in paragraphs 1109 to 1111. Is this agreed?
49.10 Those paragraphs are noted.
49.11 Can we also note documents 19 C/DR.37, 19 C/DR.71, 19 C/DR. 84 and 19 C/DR. 119?
49.12 Those draft resolutions are duly noted.
49.13 We now have two draft resolutions which the Commission is recommending for adoption -  the first is in document 19 C/DR. 109, which the Commission approved in an amended form by
63 votes in favour, none against and one abstention, and which is set out as resolution 1.145 in  paragraph 9 of document 19 C/122. Can we adopt this resolution?
49.14 The resolution is adopted.
49.15 The Director-General has the floor.
50. Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL, -  Monsieur le Président, après l'adoption de la résolution 1.14. 5, je voudrais simplement  attirer l'attention de la Conférence générale sur les ambiguftés qu'elle peut présenter. Je me pro-  pose de consulter ultérieurement le Conseil exécutif à ce sujet. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
51.1 The PRESIDENT:  The second draft resolution for us to vote on is contained in document 19 C/DR.210. The  resolution, as amended, is recommended by the Commission for adoption and is set out inpara-  graph 10 of document 19 C/122 as resolution 3.17. 1.
51.2 The resolution is adopted.
51.3 The Director-General has the floor.
52,1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL. -  : Monsieur le Président, je voudrais simplement attirer 1'attention de la Conférence générale,  a la suite de l'adoption de cette résolution, sur les difficultés considérables que peut présenter pour
292      le Secrétariat, et éventuellement pour le Conseil exécutif, la présentation des ra t i  sont demandés. La Conférence m'invite en effet, au paragraphe 10 (d) du dis Et > l'exécution de projets spécifiques relatifs aux activités des femmes, à near past es : ments de projets, pour les activités du budget ordinaire comme pour les activités ir 5  des ressources extrabudgétaires, un exposé indiquant l'incidence que le projet devrait Todt Ga  les femmes en tant que participantes et en tant que bénéficiaires, conformément à la résolution 27 adoptée par la Conférence mondiale de l'Année internationale de la femme à Mexico" Or vous "  connaissez la spécificité de certains des projets qui sont inclus dans le programme de l'Organisa-  tion, et l'impossibilité de discerner, dans le cas de tel ou tel projet, quels aspects sont 4 ue  d'autres, de nature à profiter aux femmes, Par exemple, lorsque nous organisons une ol  des ministres de l'éducation, une conférence sur les politiques culturelles ou une conférence sur  la science et la technologie, il va sans dire que nous ne pouvons distinguer l'impact qu'elle aura  sur les femmes de l'impact qu'elle aura sur les hommes ; la même remarque vaut du reste pour  tous les grands programmes scientifiques internationaux qui ont des conséquences pour l'ensemble  de l'humanité et où il serait particulièrement difficile de distinguer ce qui profite aux femmes et  ce qui ne leur profite pas.
52,2 Mais ce qui me préoccupe le plus, c'est que la Conférence m'invite à présenter un exposé de  ce genre en ce qui concerne les activités financées par des ressources extrabudgétaires ; or ce  sont les Etats membres qui ont la responsabilité des projets opérationnels, de ceux qui sont fi-  nancés par le Programme des Nations Unies pour le développement comme de ceux qui sont fi-  nancés par d'autres ressources extrabudgétaires. Le moment venu, je verrai avec le Conseil exé-  cutif comment il sera possible de concilier les décisions que vous venez de prendre ici avec le  pouvoir souverain des Etats membres en ce qui concerne les programmes opérationnels, et nous  examinerons aussi les problèmes que la mise en oeuvre de cette disposition pourra poser au Secré-  tariat lui-même,
52,3 La Conférence générale m'invite également, au paragraphe 10 (c), à "rechercher les moyens  de développer en 1977-1978 les programmes relatifs aux femmes financés par des crédits extra-  budgétaires'’. J'interprète cette disposition comme m'invitant à tenir le plus grand compte, dans  l'exécution du programme, des souhaits qui ont été exprimés. Bien entendu, il appartiendrait au  Conseil exécutif de se prononcer sur toute modification éventuelle du programme. Je vous re-  mercie, Monsieur le Président.
53. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Director-General and now call upon the honourable delegate of Portugal.
54, M. FERREIRA DE ALMEIDA (Portugal). -  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais poser une question mineure qui ne concerne que la  forme : ma délégation voudrait simplement savoir si la version définitive du document 19 C/122  mentionnera ou non les amendements aux projets de résolution ainsi que le nom des pays qui en  ont été les auteurs.
55. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the Secretary to give an answer to that question.
56, Le SECRETAIRE, -  Monsieur le Président, il n'y aura pas de version définitive du document 19 C/122 ; selon le  réglement en vigueur, toutes les résolutions contenues dans le document 19 C/122 et approuvées  par la Conférence générale seront publiées dans les Actes de la Conférence générale (volume des  résolutions) sans indication de leur origine.
57.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. I wish to mention now that, even though item 72 is related to the con-  tent of Discussion Unit 1 of Commission I as decided by the Bureau, the General Conference will  deal with this item separately after concluding its consideration of the work of the Commission.
57.2 Let us now take up Discussion Unit 2. With the agreement of the Chairman of Programme  Commission I, I will give the floor to the Rapporteur.
58.1 Mr. NKUNIKA (Zambia), Rapporteur of Programme Commission I:  Discussion Unit 2 - Development  Mr. PRESIDENT, in order to examine Discussion Unit 2 dealing with development, the Com-  mission had before it Objectives 3.1 and 3.2 of document 19 C/4 and Section 3.11 of Secure
19 C/ 5, as well as document 19 C/76 (Proposals of the Director-General in regard to Unesco's  contribution to United Nations action concerning study of the impact of the activities of trans-  national corporations) and document 19 C/87 (Report of the Director-General on a programme  of concerted research aimed at improving the conditions pertaining to the transfer of knowledge).  The Commission also referred to other fundamental texts - such as Moving Towards Change - or  texts designed as guidelines for the Organization's activities in the field of development ln  approval by the General Conference: document 19 C/15 on Unesco's contribution to the establish-
31 ment of a new international economic order; and document 19 C/ 72 (Second Development Decade -  Report of the Director-General on the progress achieved at mid-decade and proposed revision of  objectives) (Resolution 3517 (XXX)).
58.2 The broad support expressed by the speakers for Objectives 3. 1 (Formulation of a global  interpretation of development) and 3.2 (Study of socio-cultural conditions likely to foster endogen-  ous diversified development processes) of document 19 C/4, and the considerable interest shown  in them during the discussion, especially concerning the manner in which action is relevant to the  establishment of a new international economic order, indicated clearly that the Director-General  is encouraged to continue, reinforce and amplify in future years Unesco's programme for a global  integrated and multidisciplinary approach to development analysis and planning and for the promo-  tion of endogenous and diversified development.
58.3 The Commission welcomed the Director-General's decision to devote a section of docu-  ment 19 C/5 to the study of development and took note of the work plan in Section 3.11. Certain  reservations were however made concerning the ways and means of implementing this programme,  For example, the Commission pointed out that there might be a temptation to launch new studies  which might have little or no practical application while ignoring earlier research, the practical  conclusions of which may have yet to be drawn.
58.4 The "Proposals of the Director-General in regard to Unesco's contribution to United Nations  action concerning study of the impact of the activities of transnational corporations’, presentedin  document 19 C/76 were favourably received and several speakers expressed their satisfaction with  the Director-General's follow-up to resolution 3.232 adopted by the General Conference at its eight-  eenth session. The Commission also welcomed document 19 C/87 (Report of the Director-General  on a programme of concerted research aimed at improving the conditions pertaining to the transfer  of knowledge).
58.5 Particular emphasis was laid on the contribution of the social sciences to the implementation  of integrated rural development.
58.6 The Commission examined three draft resolutions. Two of these, documents 19 C/DR. 147  and 19 C/DR. 187, were amendments to resolution 3.11 in document 19 C/5. The first was ap-  proved by 30 votes in favour, 18 against and 26 abstentions, and the second by 64 votes in favour,  none against and 3 abstentions. Resolution 3.11 as amended and approved by 36 votes to 3 with
21 abstentions will be found in paragraph 15 of document 19 C/122. The third resolution, docu-  ment 19 C/DR. 224 was adopted by 54 votes in favour, none against and 20 abstentions and appears  in paragraph 16 of document 19 C/122.
58.7 The Commission noted the provision for budget and staff in this section, along with the work  plan for Section 3.11.
58.8 As is stated in paragraph 14 of document 19 C/122, the Commission recommends that the  General Conference approve Objectives 3.1 and 3.2 of document 19 C/4 without change and notes  the average annual growth rate. That is the end of the report on Discussion Unit 2.
59.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr. Rapporteur.
59.2 The delegate of France has the floor.
60. M. THOMAS (France). -  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais signaler que la rédaction francaise de la résolution 3.11  qui figure au paragraphe 15 est assez étrange, en raison probablement d'une erreur ou d'une in-  suffisance de la traduction, En effet, la Conférence générale autorise le Directeur général "(b) à  mettre en évidence le caractère endogène et la diversité des processus ...'. Je me demande par  quelle action le Directeur général peut mettre en évidence quoi que ce soit. Comme je n'ai pas le  texte dans les autres langues, je suggère que vous demandiez au Secrétariat de vérifier la traduc-  tion française et, le cas échéant, de la corriger. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
61.1 The PRESIDENT:  Yes, that will be corrected.
61.2 The Commission recommends that the General Conference approve Objectives 3. 1 and 3.2  of document 19 C/4, and that we note the corresponding average biennial growth rate from para-  graphs 3143 and 3237 of document 19 C/4. Is that agreed?
61.3 These texts are adopted and noted.
61.4 Again, the Conference is asked to approve the Guidance Notes for Objectives 3.1 and 3.2  contained in the Annex to document 19 C/122.
61.5 The Guidance Notes are approved,
61.6 The resolution proposed in Section 3.11 was amended by the approval of the Commission of  documents 19 C/DR.147 and 187. The Commission recommended that the General Conference ; adopt the amended resolution 3.11 as it appears in paragraph 15 of document 19 C/122. The vote  in the Commission was 36 votes in favour to 3 against, with 21 abstentions. Can we ado t resolu  tion 3.11 as amended? . 3 I
61.7 It is adopted. Thank you.
61.8 The Commission approved by 54 votes to none, with 20 abstentions, the resolution proposed  in document 19 C/DR. 224 which you will find in paragraph 16 of document 19 G/122. I call upon  the Director-General to comment on this resolution.
62. Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL, -  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais suggérer à la Conférence générale d'insérer au début de  l'alinéa (b) du projet de résolution, après "'d'affecter'" et avant "une somme plus importante", les  mots "a la demande des Etats membres", En effet, dans le cadre de la programmation par pays  ce sont les Etats membres eux-mêmes qui décident de l'utilisation des fonds provenant du Pro- ;  gramme des Nations Unies pour le développement ; quant au Programme de participation, sur les  modalités d'utilisation duquel la Conférence générale s'est déja prononcée, vous savez que les  Etats membres sont libres de formuler les demandes qui leur convie
63.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Can we now approve the resolution as amended?
63.2 It is adopted.
63.3 Concerning Section 3.11, the Commission recommended that the work plan in paragraphs 3005  to 3023 of document 19 C/5, the provision for budget in paragraph 3003, and that for staff in para-  graph 3024 of document 19 C/5 be noted. Is this agreed?
63.4 These paragraphs are noted.
63.5 I now give the floor to the Rapporteur to introduce Discussion Unit 3.
64.1 Mr. NKUNIKA (Zambia), Rapporteur of Programme Commission I:  Discussion Unit 3 - Population  Mr. President, under this Unit, the Commission examined Objective 8.1 of 19 C/4, and  Section 3.15 and part of Section 1.14 of 19 C/5. In addition, five draft resolutions were presented,  four of which related to Section 3.15 of document 19 C/5, with the remaining one referring to Sub-  objective 8.11 of document 19 C/4. The relevant paragraphs in document 19 C/122 are para-  graphs 18, 19 and 20.
64.2 Particular attention was given to the social science research projects proposed in Proj-  ect 3.15.1 of document 19 C/5 and to questions of research on human rights, especially with  reference to Subobjective 8.11 of document 19 C/4.
64.3 The Commission expressed its concern at the low level of regular budget resources devoted  to the programme. At the same time the Commission stressed the need for exercising care to avoid  duplication with other organizations, especially those of the United Nations system.
64.4 There was general agreement on the importance of a micro-level, anthropological approach  to the research proposed in Project 3.15.1, and on the need to study the results of population in-  formation programmes for out-of-school youth, especially in developing countries.
64.5 Resolution 3.15 was approved by 50 votes to none, with 18 abstentions, after inclusion of a  modification of the amendment proposed in document 19 C/DR.146. The amended resolution ap-  Pears indocument 19 C/122 at paragraph 19. The draft resolutions contained in documents 19 C/DR. 29  and 19 C/DR. 145 were noted for the work plan of document 19 C/5, the sponsors having accepted  an amalgamated version of these two draft resolutions. The draft resolution contained in docu-  ment 19 C/DR. 144 was withdrawn by the sponsor, on the understanding that it would be hoted for  possible inclusion in document 20 C/5. The draft resolution contained in document 19 C/DR. 229  Proposed the addition to the programme actions under Subobjective 8.11 of research on the human  rights underlying the choice of population policy alternatives. This was noted for inclusion in docu-  ments 20 C/4 and 20 C/5.
64.6 The Commission took note of the work plan relating to Section 3.15 and the corresponding  Provision for budget and staff.
64.7 The Commission approved Objective 8.1 of document 19 C/4 and the corresponding average  biennial growth rate.
64.8 Mr. President, that is the end of the report on Discussion Unit 3 on population. Thank you.
295  nnent au titre de ce programme.
31 65.1 The PRESIDENT: . :  Thank you. Under this Discussion Unit, we are called upon to adopt Objective 8.1, following  the Commission's recommendation. Is it agreed?
65.2 The objective is adopted.
65.3 The Commission recommended also that the General Conference note the average biennial  growth rate for these objectives as shown in paragraph 8125 of 19 C/4 and the Guidance Notes in  the Annex to 19 C/122.
65.4 These texts are noted.
65.5 Concerning Section 3.15, the Commission, having adopted the draft resolution in document
19 C/DR. 146, recommended the adoption of resolution 3.15 as it stands in paragraph 19 of19 C/122.  Do you approve?
65.6 The resolution is adopted.
65.7 We are asked tonote for the same section the draftresolutions contained in documents 19 C/DR. 29,
19 C/DR. 145 and 19 C/DR. 229. Is this agreed?
65.8 The draft resolutions are noted.
65.9 The Commission recommended that the work plan in paragraphs 3117 to 3133 of document19 C/5  and the provision for the budget in paragraph 3115 and that for the staff in paragraphs 3134 to 3135  of document 19 C/5 be noted. Is it agreed?
65.10 These paragraphs are noted.
65.11 I now give the floor to the Rapporteur to report on the Commission's work on Discussion  Unit 4.
66.1 Mr. NKUNIKA (Zambia), Rapporteur of Programme Commission I:  Discussion Unit 4 - Social Sciences  Mr. President, this Discussion Unit was a good deal longer than the others as the Commission  had to deal with the international development of the social sciences, socio-economic analysis,  youth, philosophy and interdisciplinary co-operation, as well as operational activities, the Regional  Office and the Office of the Assistant Director-General.  International development of social sciences
66.2 Dealing with the subsection on the international development of the social sciences, the Com-  mission examined Objective 3.3 of document 19 C/4 and Section 3.12 of document 19 C/5, along with  three draft resolutions relating thereto contained in documents 19 C/DR.179, 19 C/DR.5 and
66.3 The Commission expressed satisfaction with the approach towards strengthening and increas-  ing the role of social sciences in Unesco, as reflected in Objective 3.3 of document 19 C/4, and in  particular stressed the significance of the development of the social sciences at boththe regional  and the international levels as proposed in Section 3.12 of document 19 C/5.
66.4 The Commission recognized the need for further strengthening of the institutional networks  in the social sciences in all parts of the world. It was brought out in this regard that various types  of support were required for the regional and national infrastructures in Africa, Asia and Oceania,  the Arab States, Latin America and the Caribbean and in Europe, as outlined in Project 3.12.2 of  document 19 C/5.
66.5 A suggestion was made that the Social Science Sector would be enriched by a scientific re-  search liaison and co-operation function similar to that used in the programme on Man and the  Biosphere, thereby adding the establishment of some intergovernmental programmes within the  sectoral and intersectoral activities. The idea is expressed in document 19 C/DR. 216, which the  Commission adopted by 37 votes to none with 3 abstentions, as is reflected in paragraph 30 of docu-  ment 19 C/122.
66.6 Emphasis was placed on the need for developing the social sciences theoretically and con-  ceptually (as described in document 19 C/4, Objective 3.3) as well as methodologically (as described  in document 19 C/4, Objective 3.4) before they could be effectively applied to problem-oriented re-  search (as described in document 19 C/4, Objectives 3.1 and 3.2), thus better to meet the needs and  challenges of social problems in Member States.
66. 7 Several delegations referred to the importance of certain conceptual and linguistic problems  in the social sciences. It was proposed to organize a seminar for Spanish-speaking countries con-  cerning the Dictionary of the Social Sciences recently published in collaboration with Unesco.
86.8 Some delegates noted the need for conceptual elaboration of  (and social) order. It was stressed that the International Social S  ing this programme through contractual arrangement with the Sec  and consult with research institutions in various Member States.  the new international economic  cience Council, while implement-  retariat, should co-operate closely
66.9 The project on the scientific and technological revolution and social sciences was commended  and its scientific impact appreciated.
66.10 The Commission agreed that problem-oriented research, institutional development and  methodological advancement are not mutually exclusive but, rather, complementary to each other  and equally necessary if the social sciences are to play an effective role in the furthering of  development.
66.11 Several delegates discussed the significance of publication, information and documentation  services such as the DARE and Inter concept systems, and stressed that, while the UNISIST norms  and standards are spread through the social sciences, the specific nature of these disciplines should  be fully taken into account. The draft resolution contained in document 19 C/DR. 5 concerning in-  formation and documentation services was noted by the Commission.
66.12 The Commission unanimously approved resolution 3.12 contained in paragraph 22 of docu-  ment 19 C/122, and noted the work plan for Section 3.12 and the corresponding budgetary and staff  provisions.
66.13 It also approved Objective 3.3 and the corresponding average biennial growth rate.  Socio-economic analysis
66.14 Mr. President, I now turn to the subsection on socio-economic analysis and the Commission's  deliberations concerning Objective 3.4 - Development and application of tools and methods of socio-  economic analysis and development planning in document 19 C/4, as well as Section 3.13 - Socio-  economic analysis - in document 19 C/5.
66.15 Several delegations noted with satisfaction that, in contrast with the rather abstract pro-  posals made in earlier years, Projects 3.13.1, 3.13.2 and 3.13.3 were applied activities with  clear indications for practical use of results. Many delegations stressed the need to concentrate  projects in three methodological areas of immediate concern and utility for analysis and planning  in Member States, namely, indicators, modelling and evaluation.
66.16 The Commission expressed its approval of the approach, the principles of action and activi-  ties proposed. While some delegations underlined the importance of socio-economic indicators for  analysis and planning, others stressed the usefulness of modelling as a tool, especially inrelation  to the formulation of a basic human needs development strategy. Many speakers commended also  the activities proposed concerning the use of evaluation methods at the project planning stage in  Member States as well as their use by Unesco itself. The value of international exchanges related  to these projects was stressed.
66.17 The development and promotion of methodologies contributing to Member States' ability to  deal with social problems, programme planning and implementation was cited as one of the crucial  roles of the social sciences and it was suggested that more importance be given to Obective 3. 4,  which fulfils this role. Several delegations suggested that applied statistics is a tool of the social  sciences and that specialists in statistics, especially methodology, should be used to strengthen  the social sciences.
66.18 The Commission approved Objective 3.4. Several delegations suggested that the proposed growin  rate of zero per cent should be increased in view of the value of this objective to all Member States.
66.19 Although some delegations felt that greater resources should be allotted to Section 3. 13'0f  document 19 C/5, the Commission unanimously approved resolution 3.13 as contained in para-  graph 24 of document 19 C/122, and noted the corresponding work plan along with the provision  for budget and staff.
66.20 The Commission noted the draft resolution contained in document 19 C/DR. 148 for inclusion  in the work plan of Project 3.13.3, concerning the development of indicators of environmental  quality and the quality of life.  Youth
66.21 Mr. President, I now turn to the Commission's report on the subsection dealing with youth.  The Commission examined Objective 6.4 of document 19 C/4 and Section 3.16 of document 19 C/5  relating to the youth programme. The draft resolutions contained in documents 19 C/DR. 143,
19 C/DR. 211 and 19 C/DR. 225 were presented.  amme which it considered a balanced one, 66.22 Th issi ; t for this progr e Commission expressed support fo prog The Heed tor lcoroperation  giving appropriate emphasis to important issues affecting young people.  With other sectors of the Secretariat was emphasized.
31 66.23 The Commission welcomed the transfer of the Youth Division to the Sector of Social Scienceg  and their Applications, believing that this decision reflected the increased role of youth in Society,  but that it did not imply reducing youth to an object of study.
66.24 With regard to the involvement of youth in development, the Commission attached particular  importance to the role of youth in the establishment of a new international economic order, in the  struggle against colonialism and racism and in strengthening the cultural identity of certain groups,
66.25 Most delegates agreed with the emphasis placed on young workers and rural youth. Some  delegates suggested that refugees from countries which are still under colonial domination should  be included in these activities and that support to national liberation movements shouldbe pursued,  Special projects in favour of young women should also be conceived.
66.26 The Commission expressed satisfaction with the co-operation between Member States, youth  organizations and Unesco.
66.27 The Commission approved Objective 6.4. The corresponding average biennial growth rate  was noted, although many delegates pointed out that the zero growth rate given to this objective  was in contradiction with the priority accorded by Member States to the youth programme.
66.28 The draft resolutions contained in documents 19 C/DR.143, 19 C/DR.211 and19 C/DR. 225  proposed amendments to resolution 3.16. Document 19 C/DR. 211 was withdrawn, document
19 C/DR. 143 was approved by a vote of 25 in favour, 3 against and 19 abstentions, and document
19 C/DR. 225 was approved by 18 in favour, 1 against and 28 abstentions. Resolution 3.16 as  amended by documents 19 C/DR. 143 and 19 C/DR. 225 and as shown in paragraph 26 of docu-  ment 19 C/122, was approved by a vote of 30 in favour, none against and 12 abstentions.
66.29 The work plan, budgetary and staff provisions for Section 3.16 of document 19 C/5 were  noted by the Commission.  Philosophy and interdisciplinary co-operation
66.30 Mr. President, I now turn to the subsection on philosophy and interdisciplinary co-operation.  Having already considered and noted the work plan for Project 3.18.3 of Section 3.18 under Discus-  sion Unit 1, the Commission had before it, for Unit 4, Projects 3.18.1, 3.18.2 and 3. 18.4. Section
3.18 referred to several objectives considered under other Discussion Units. In Discussion Unit 4  the Commission dealt only with Objective 3.3 for formal approval as regards philosophy and inter-  disciplinary co-operation. It also considered document 19 C/DR. 223.
66.31 The Commission welcomed the proposed programme. However, in some cases, speakers  regretted the lack of a more distinctly philosophical programme, as well as the excessive promi-  nence given to ethical considerations. Certain activities, such as the journal Diogenes, were  singled out for praise.
66.32 Most of the discussion revolved around the contentions and proposals put forward in docu-  ment 19 C/DR. 223. This draft resolution laid great emphasis on the importance of philosophical  reflection in all sectors of Unesco's activity. Considerable concern was expressed by some dele-  gates about the effect that the placing of philosophy in the Social Science Sector might have on the  proper role it should have within the Organization. Some delegations noted what they considered  adiscrepancy between the function of philosophical reflection and the actual provisions of Section 3. 18,  including the resources and the grade of the head of the Division.
66.33 After the Secretariat had expressed its sympathy with the principle of giving philosophical  reflection its due place in Unesco's activities and structures and its view that the solutions adopted  and proposals made by the Director-General were appropriate to achieve this end, the Commission  approved the draft resolution contained in document 19 C/DR. 223 by 25 votes to none, with 15 absten-  tions. It was the understanding of the Commission that this resolution, which appears in para-  graph 29 of document 19 C/122, concerned Section 3.18 but contained no specific or formal pro-  posals, being rather of the nature of general advice to the Director-General.
66.34 An oral amendment to resolution 3.18 was put to a vote and adopted by 31 votes to one, with
14 abstentions. The resolutipn as amended was approved by 32 to none and 10 abstentions and is  reproduced in paragraph 28 of document 19 C/i122.
66.35 The corresponding work plan contained in paragraphs 3205 to 3221 of document 19 C/5- with  the exception of Project 3.18.3, paragraphs 3219-3220, already voted under Discussion Unit 1 -  was noted, along with the budget and staff provisions of Section 3.18.  Operational activities, Regional Office, Office of the Assistant Director-General
66.36 Mr. President, I now turn to the subsections on operational activities in the social sciences,  the Regional Office for the Social Sciences and the Office of the Assistant Director-General. The  final part of Discussion Unit 4 concerned operational activities in the social sciences as set out in  Section 3.20, the Regional Office for the Social Sciences as set out in Section 3. 30, and the Office
298      of the Assistant Director-General, set out in Section 3. 40. The Commission al i 3  ment 19 C/DR.216, which concerned the entire programme LE ES in the social sciences.
66.37 The discussion brought out the misgivings of some delegates about the dependence of the population programme on extra-budgetary resources and the need to support the Latin American Social Science Faculty in negotiations with UNDP.
66.38 The draft resolution contained in document 19 C/DR.216 as amended after consultations with  the Secretariat was approved by 37 votes in favour, none against and 3 abstentions. The text as  amended appears in paragraph 30 of document 19 C/122.
66.39 The work plan for Section 3.20 (paragraphs 3226 to 3230 of document 19 C/5) was noted  along with the budgetary provisions for Sections 3.20, 3.30 and 3.40 (paragraphs 3225, 3231 and
3234), and the provisions for staffing and maintenance of the Regional Office (paragraphs 3232-
3233) and for the Office of the Assistant Director-General and for the hospitality requirements of  the whole Sector (paragraphs 3236-3237).
66.40 One delegate proposed that an issue of the International Social Science Journal be devoted to  the debates of Programme Commission I concerning the programme in the social sciences and the  relevant parts of the Medium- Term Plan of Action. This suggestion, which was supported by two  other delegations, met with the general agreement of the Commission.
66.41 Finally, the Commission approved the budget of $9, 504, 200 for Chapter 3 as a whole, as  shown in paragraph 3001 of document 19 C/5, it being understood that this figure will be adjusted  to reflect the inflation costs of 1975-1976.
66.42 Mr. President, that is the end of my report on Discussion Unit 4. Thank you.
67.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Rapporteur. Concerning this Discussion Unit the Commission has recommended that  the General Conference approve Objectives 3.3, 3.4 and 6.4 of document 19 C/4. Do you approve  these objectives?
67.2 They are approved.
67.3 Can we also take note of the Guidance Notes?
67.4 These are noted.
67.5 The Commission recommended also that the General Conference note the corresponding  average biennial growth rates as shown respectively in paragraphs 3331, 3420 and 6440 of docu-  ment 19 C/4. Do we agree?
67.6 These are noted.
67.7 Concerning Section 3.12, the Commission recommended unanimously that the General Con-  ference adopt the resolution proposed by the Director-General as shown in paragraph 22 of docu-  ment 19 C/122. Is that agreed?
67.8 The resolution is adopted.
67.9 The Commission, having adopted the draft resolution contained in document 19 C/DR. 216 by
37 votes to none with 3 abstentions, recommended also that the General Conference adopt the resolu-  tion as it stands in paragraph 30 of document 19 C/122. Agreed?
67.10 The resolution is adopted.
67.11 Concerning Section 3.12, the Commission recommended that the General Conference take  note of document 19 C/DR. 5. Is this agreed?
67.12 This document is noted.
67.13 The Commission recommended also that the work plan in paragraphs 3028 to 3053 of docu-  ment 19 C/5, the provision for budget in paragraphs 3026 of 19 C/5 and the provision for staff in  Paragraphs 3054 and 3055 be noted. Agreed?
67.14 These paragraphs are noted.
67.15 Now we will go on to consider Section 3.13 which deals with socio-economic analysis. The  Commission recommended unanimously the adoption of resolution 3, 13 as it stands inparagraph24  of document 19 C/122.
67.16 The resolution is adopted.
31 67.17 The Commission also recommended that the General Conference take note of draft resolution
19 C/DR. 148. Is this agreed?
67.18 This draft resolution is noted.
67.19 The Commission recommends that the General Conference take note of the work plan in  paragraphs 3059 to 3073 of document 19 C/5, of the provison for budget in paragraph 3057 and of  the provision for staff in paragraphs 3074 and 3075 of document 19 C/5. Is this agreed?
67.20 These paragraphs are noted.
67.21 Concerning Section 3.16, the Commission, after adopting the draft resolutions contained in  documents 19 C/DR. 143 and 19 C/DR. 225, recommended by 30 votes to none, with 12 abstentions,  that the General Conference adopt resolution 3.16 as it stands in paragraph 26 of document 19 C/122,  Do we agree to adopt this resolution?
67.22 The resolution is adopted.
67.23 The General Conference has been asked to note the work plan set out in paragraphs 3139 to
3154 of document 19 C/5, the budget provision in paragraph 3137, and the provision for staff in  paragraphs 3155 and 3156. Is this noted?
67.24 These paragraphs are noted.
67.25 Concerning Section 3.18, the Commission, after adopting an oral amendment, recommended  that the General Conference adopt resolution 3.18 as shown in paragraph 28 of document 19 C/122,  Is this agreed?
67.26 The resolution is adopted.
67.27 1 give the floor to the delegate of Guinea.
68. M. TRAORE (Guinée). -  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais signaler qu'en commission ma délégation avait fait des  réserves sur la résolution 3.18. En effet, dans le texte de cette résolution figure un mot qui ne  figurait pas dans la résolution initiale telle qu'elle apparaît au paragraphe 3204 du document 19 C/5:  c'est le mot ''culturel'. Nous avons longuement discuté de l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre écono-  mique international, et voici qu'aujourd'hui nous adoptons la notion d'un "nouvel ordre économique  et culturel international'. Vraiment, Monsieur le Président, le mot "culturel'"" nous semble venir  là comme des cheveux sur la soupe, et, compte tenu de ce que nous sommes convenus d'entendre  par "instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique et humain international", nous aurions souhaité la  suppression de ce mot qui nous paraît déplacé dans ce contexte, Merci, Monsieur le Président.
69.1 The PRESIDENT:  I assure the delegate of Guinea that his remarks will be noted.
69.2 Having adopted the proposed amendment in document 19 C/DR. 223, the Commission recom-  mended that the General Conference adopt resolution 3.18.1 as set out in paragraph 29 of docu-  ment 19 C/122. Do we agree to this recommendation?
69.3 The resolution is adopted.
69.4 The Commission recommended also that the General Conference note the work plan as set  out in paragraphs 3205 to 3221. The budget provision in paragraph 3203 and the provision for  staff in paragraphs 3222 and 3223 of document 19 C/5.
69.5 These paragraphs are noted.
69.6 As regards Section 3.20, the General Conference is asked to note the work plan contained in  paragraphs 3226 to 3230 of document 19 C/5, and the budget provision in paragraph 3225.
69.7 These paragraphs are noted.
69.8 As regards Sections 3. 30 and 3.40, we are asked to note the budget provisions for the  Regional Office for the Social Sciences and for the Office of the Assistant Director-General in  paragraphs 3231 and 3234 of document 19 C/5, as well as the breakdown in paragraphs 3236 and
69.9 Those paragraphs are noted.
9.10 Ladies and gentlemen, this completes our  ee is adjourned until this afternoon when W bot  Commission I.  consideration of Discussion U nits 1 to 4. The € will continue with the report of Programme  The meeting rose at 12. 50 p.m,  La séance est levée à 12 h 50  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 12.50
3acezanne SakprBaeTcs B 12.50 re en AVES ly dde A Wl Geld) GAL Cons,