Ninth plenary meeting
30 October 1976 at 10.25 a. m.  President: Mr. TOWEETT (Kenya)  later: Mr. OWUSU-FORDWOUH (Ghana)  Neuvième séance plénière
30 okTsbps 1976 r. B 10 4.25 MuH.  IIpeacegaresb: r-H TOYSTT (Keuus)
3aTreM: r-u OBycy-®opaByx (Mana)  dal} Pd  (> Lo as LL! JAYT JY pti) 0 y.  (LAS) css dal : ut)!  (LL) 6993995 — gags! LI 5  RECEIVABILITY OF CERTAIN PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS/RECEVABILITE DE CERTAINS  PROJETS DE RESOLUTION/ACEPTACION DE CIERTOS PROYECTOS DE RESOLUCION/  IPHEMNEMOCTb HEKOTOPEIX IIPOEKTOB PE3OMOIHH/ 40115) clog, te pay Job 5 hd)
1. The PRESIDENT:  Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First, I have a communication from the General Com-  mittee of the Conference. This morning the General Committee considered the receivability of a  certain number of proposed resolutions with substantial budgetary implications which reached the  Secretariat after 10 August this year. The Committee agreed, following reference to Rule 78 À of  the Rules of Procedure, that these resolutions were not receivable.  ANNOUNCEMENTS BY THE PRESIDENT/COMMUNICATIONS DU PRESIDEN T/ COMUNICACIONES  DEL PRESIDENTE/ COOBIEHUA IIPEJCE JATETS/ (uf! LE 4 ell,
2.1 The PRESIDENT: 3 i AE  Secondly, I wish to inform you that the new Agenda item 78 concerning the admission of new  Member States, with particular reference to the People's Republic of Angola, will be discussed in  the plenary meeting on Monday.
2.2 Again, before I call on our first speaker for the morning, I should like to inform you se  the University of Nairobi yesterday afternoon, the honorary degree of Doctor of Literature - the  first honorary degree to be conferred by the University upon any person here in Africa es con-  ferred upon the Director-General, Mr. M' Bow, ‘by H. E. the President of the Republic of Kenya,  Mzee Jomo Kenyatta.  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)/DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)/ DEBATE DE  POLITICA GENERAL (continuaciôn)/ OBCYXIEHHE BONPOCOB OBNEH TOJNNTHKH (npoxo1xenne)  (eb) ae EEA BAC Leu | BA) LS
3. The PRESIDENT: : ing i Ladies and gentlemen, our first speaker this morning is tl Education and Culture and head of the delegation of the Philippines.  the Hon. Juan Manuel, Secretary of
9 4.1 Mr. MANUEL (Philippines): ; :  Mr. President, I wish to extend our most cordial greetings to you and to all fellow delegates  and I would like to associate myself and the entire delegation of the Philippines with the Previous  speakers in conveying warm congratulations to you on your election as President of this nineteenth  session of the General Conference of Unesco. We feel honoured to have you as our leader, we he  sure you of our utmost co-operation and we foresee that this will be one of the most fruitfy] and  memorable sessions historically, under the inspiration of your wise guidance and in the delightfy  environment of this internationally renowned and beautiful city of Nairobi, whose generous hospita]  ity we are now enjoying.  -
4.2 Coincidences acquire unexpected symbolism depending on how one perceives the connection be.  tween places and events. It is a striking fact to me that this biennial Unesco General Conference  which coincides with the thirtieth anniversary of this Organization comes on the heels of the recent  UNCTAD IV and the United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements meetings here in Nairobi. In the  earlier gathering of Third World peoples together withthe affluent in this same Third World site,  which we have chosen for our own venue, it was the solemn duty of the humble leader of the Filipino  people, President Ferdinand E. Marcos, to present, on behalf of the Group of 77, their position on  the economic imbalances and misfortunes of the world today. This position on a more equitable re.  structuring of the global terms of trade is also called the Manila Declaration and Programme ofAc.  tion of the Group of 77. On the other hand, it is not yet a month ago that the Philippines served as  host to the IMF-World Bank meeting in Manila. One month earlier, Manila was the venue of the  scientific and technological conference on ‘The Survival of Mankind: The Philippine Experiment,  This was a co-operative, practical problem-oriented and intellectual futuristic endeavour involving  a developing society and some of the world's outstanding savants and technocrats. Thus our Philip.  pine delegation, while travelling a physical distance of almost twenty thousand miles to get here,  actually finds Nairobi and Manila one spiritual vicinity. For our two cities, Mr. President, are  attuned to the Third World's familiar voice articulating similar educational, scientific and cultural,  as well as economic, problems of development. As with UNCTAD and the IMF-World Bank so with  Unesco, the primordial question is development in the full sense, how and when, on behalf of the  poor, the hungry, the sick and the untaught, who constitute hundreds of millions of human beings on  our planet-earth. This is what the general policy debate at the eighteenth session of the General Con-  ference concluded unanimously and emphasized: development and peace are Unesco's indivisible main  front line priorities. This applies "not only at the national, but also at the international level". This  calls for "multilateral action in a spirit of international co-operation and on a "basis of equality, with  all due respect for the sovereignty, dignity and specific characteristics of each country" which offers  a source of mutual enrichment as regards human values".
4.3 The new Draft Programme and Budget (document 19 C/5) we are considering here gives con-  tinuity to these conclusions. Their idealism testifies to the perseverance and endurance of our  universal humanistic faith to which Goethe gave expression in these lines: "If man thinks the  thought eternal, He is ever fair and great". I am sure it is not to detract from this faith that our  esteemed Director-General has taken the sober view that we are living in one of the mostdifficult  periods of mankind's history. This is the context he has given to his presentation to us of a cour-  ageously and effectively designed Draft Programme and Budget for 1977-1978. In appropriatecom-  mittees of this Conference our delegation will present our position in detail on various parts of this  document. Here, allow me to comment on its basic and broader implications. There is abundant  evidence of tragically bloody and bloodless conflict, both persistent and recurrent, within andamong  nations, to sustain our Director-General's contextual view. Unprecedented upheavals in institutional  structures and processes, sometimes without sparing traditionally inviolate power centres, toppling  down the highest offices, and shaking the foundations of time-tested systems occur almost every-  where and at any time, approximating the incidence and character of natural disasters. Yet the  image of our indomitable common man, our farmer, whom we Filipinos call Juan de la Cruz, comes  to mind as he, his wife, and his sons recommence the work of rebuilding their ruined nipa hut in the  wake of the typhoon and the flood, the earthquake and the tidal wave, and of restoring and replanting  their devastated little farm. He must help the school principal to reconstruct the village school, so  that his children can go back to study and possibly finish their formal basic education, although  usually with textbooks available only at the book-pupil ratio of 1:9, and with a 50 per cent chance of  becoming dropouts after Grade VI. He must grow and buy enough food at least to reach the average
80 per cent adequacy level of nutrition in Filipino rural families. To begin with, the average Filipino  belongs to the bottom 40 per cent of families with the lowest income. Under the concept of a''mini-  mum needs" budget, he cannot afford adequate nutrition and other essentials of life, especially with  inflation worsening since the energy crisis. Inevitably, because about a quarter of the total mortal-  ity figures consist of infant deaths. the average Filipino has lost at least one child before the age of  nine from malnutrition, and that child died as one of the 28 per cent of deaths not medically attended
4.4 Mr. President, itis for this deprived rural family - and similarly deprived urban families -  children and adults together, and those even more deprived in various parts of the world, that Unesco  should transform its ideals into workable objectives, programmes and activities. They are the flesh  and blood of rural development which should decolonize and eradicate rural poverty, progressively  abate urban-rural disparities, and democratize and equilibrate available opportunity and services  favour of providing more to those who have less in life. The Philippine delegation, Mr. President,  is happy to note that in both documents 19 C/4 and 19 C/5 development is given much importance  and we commend Unesco for taking the decisive steps towards the establishment of the new inter-
434      national economic order designed, as the Director-General has said > wn : to rectif i iti  and injustices as indicated in these two documents. Epresenifinequalities
4.5 The motive power for such thorough-going transformation and re  environment and population is obviously generated by a united, self-reliant, and development  oriented national political will in our country today under the leadership oi President Patti E  Marcos. The crisis Government he has established is committed to a systematic socio- ONCE  and political movement towards a more progressive democracy for the common man. This move-  ment started with agrarian reform and includes large-scale credit and other financial inputs for  agriculture, a massive and wide-ranging infrastructure programme of roads, bridges, dams, ir-  rigation works, rural electrification, and public buildings, with the humanizing grace of cultural  centres and music, art and literary programmes for young and old. Working as parts of this sys-  tem, education, science, culture and communication are essential components but notin themselves  sufficient factors of development. As the New Society in the Philippines has succeededin doing since  it was established in the September 1972 movement by President Marcos, education for rural trans-  formation has included immediate expansion of rural educational services beginning with the massive  reorganization of the management, administration, supervision, staffing and financing pattern of the old  educational system, through the organization of twelve new autonomous regional offices. The national  scholarship and assistance programme for poor but deserving students has been expanded, and the  goals of integration have been further strengthened by this programme, as is shown by a total of  more than 32 thousand collegiate full scholarship grants since 1972, of which almost 25 per cent  have gone to ethnic communities. Out-of-school youth and unemployed adults have been given train.  ing as manpower for industry and agriculture by the National Manpower and Youth Council of the  Department of Labour working in close collaboration with the vocational and technical schools under  the Department of Education and Culture and other departments of the Government such as the De-  partment of National Defense, the Department of Agriculture, and private civic foundations like the  Foundation for Youth Development in the Philippines. National curriculum centres in science and  mathematics education, practical arts, social studies and communication arts have institutionalized  a programme of pre-service and in-service training of teachers for the use of their new materials  through a network of tertiary, secondary and elementary levels of training programmes and learn-  ing resource centres in every region. Together with the training programmes of these curriculum  development centres, the Department of Education and Culture has launched a textbook production  project with the aim of raising by 1985 the book-pupil ratio from the present 1:9 to the desired 1:2  ratio.  newal demanded by the rural
4.6 A selection of some of the more important strategies we have adopted to attain increased effec-  tiveness in this rural development goal may indicate some directions for the implementation of  Unesco's plans for innovative and alternative educational structures, content and methods and tech-  niques. We have stressed a productiveness and income generating orientation in vocational courses  and such special programmes as the Green Revolution and the development of home industries.  Youth Development Training, Citizen Army Training and Youth Civic Action Programmes, scouting  for boys and girls are included in the curriculum to vitalize citizenship values and community ser-  vice. Functional literacy and recreational reading materials based on folk tradition, special indi-  vidual experience, and national development education projects are being produced by ethnic com-  munity teachers in workshops that develop their skills for this purpose, in order that popular reading  materials can be disseminated in the rural areas to prevent the reversal process from literacy  back to illiteracy. School health and nutrition programmes have been intensified. Agrarian reform,  taxation education, population education, the neighbourhood co-operative movement, environmental  education, conservation, wise consumerism, drug abuse control education, and cultural renewal are  among the centres of interest and activities integrated in multi-level curricular reform and develop-  ment. Social laboratories with demonstration, training and research facilities for local farmers  and community leaders and Barrio Development Schools to provide a terminal curriculum for boys  and girls likely to stay permanently in the villages are being expanded. Under the auspices of Inno-  tech - this is the centre for educational innovation and technology, one of the centres operated by  SEAMEO (The South-East Asian Ministers of Education Organization) - alternative structures for  the delivery of elementary education like the in-school approach, IMPACT, using modules and self-  learning kits are also being experimented upon. A distance learning programme has been started  with applied nutrition as its first major area of instruction.
4.7 It gives me great pleasure at this point to acknowledge with much gratitude, from the point of  view of our national requirements and of regional teamwork, the effectiveness of the services of the  staff of the Unesco Regional Office in Asia, specially in Bangkok, Thailand and Jakarta, Indonesia.  Their programmes and projects are specially relevant and useful to our needs. Theis modus oper-  andi of joint sponsorship with national associated centres represents an advance in the Unesco con-  cept of co-operation and mutual reinforcement. This deserves, moreover, a higher level of funding  from Unesco and we support an earlier appeal towards this end, made by the distinguished head of  the delegation of Thailand. For only few national centres can provide supplementary funding, and  this is why we are immensely indebted to the National Institute for Educational Research of Japan,  the Korean National Commission for Unesco in Seoul, and to Unicef and some foundations for their  partnership.
4.8 There has been a serious risk that international aid sources, including Cesu SU  grammes for the transfer of technology and training, will saddle developing countries with a y=  phus burden in the form of a built-in imitation, or the transplantation, of a foreign model, and an
9   inevitable attitude and condition of dependence. Unesco's programmes and projects should guard  against such dangers of neo-colonization in education, science and culture. Unesco should always  seek to utilize indigenous resources and experience, nurturing national cultural identity and indiyiq,  ual creativity under the Unesco canopy of universal concepts and values, and enhancing human dig.  nity through developmental processes. There should not be impositions from outside. Relevant to  this issue is the contemporary world-wide public awareness of and opinion about super-affluence ang  ultra-development models in the world, and among the privileged class within developing countries,  begetting runaway situations and, at worst, the erosion of cherished basic individual, family and  societal values. The fulfilment of development is entwined with options about the limits and quality  of growth for the human being, society and the natural environment. We must never forgetthatour  environment, both man-made and God-given, is vulnerable to the worst as much as to the best in  man who, through science and technology, has already set in motion processes and forces which  compete with, exceed, and conflict with those of nature. As much as possible, Unesco's projects  must be imbued with a new ethic for man's relationship with nature and with his own inner being,  so that he may derive his good from harmony with nature and his better self; for his life would be  a lonely, barren and bitter stretch of existence if he failed to be a creative part of nature.
4.9 Mr. President, I wish to conclude by stating that my Government is pledged to seek and to  strive within its humble means, in co-operation with all peoples united under Unesco and im-  plementing its programme of education, science, culture and communication, for a humane, free,  just, fraternal and fruitful peace and development for all men. Thank you, Mr. President.  ORGANIZATION OF THE WORK OF THE NINETEENTH SESSION OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX DE LA DIX-NEUVIEME SESSION DE LA CONFERENCE GENERALE  ORGANIZACION DE LOS TRABAJOS DE LA 19A REUNION DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL  OPTAHH3AI[HHI PABOTEI IEBATHANIATOH CECCHH TEHEPAIBHOWH KOH®EPEHIHH/  plat ai 13 ûe Bau al 359 ul Jlol bi:
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, before calling on the next speaker, I wish to inform you that at its meet-  ing this morning the General Committee of the Conference discussed document 19 C/2 Add., which  concerns the composition and methods of work of the Drafting and Negotiation Group, whose creation  you have already approved today as set out in document 19 C/2.
5.2 In my capacity as President of the General Conference I have received from the different elec-  toral groups proposals as to the composition of the Drafting and Negotiation Group and these are:  Group I - Belgium, France, Italy, Norway and the United States of America; Group II - Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, and Romania; Group II - Brazil,  Cuba, Argentina and Colombia; Group IV - Burma, China, India and Japan; Group V - People's Re-  public of Benin, Gabon, Nigeria, Senegal and Tanzania. Four members for the Arab States will be  announced later. It is understood that, once you have approved the composition of the Group, I shall  open discussions on the methods of work. I wish to recommend that you approve the composition of  the Drafting and Negotiation Group that I have just read out.
5.3 As there are no objections, I declare that the various proposals are approved.
5.4 Now that you have approved the composition of the Group, I am prepared to open discussions  on paragraphs 4-14 of document 19 C/2 Add. - that is the working methods of the Drafting and Nego-  tiation Group. ;
5.5 1 give the floor to the head of the delegation of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic.
6. I'-u KPABEII (Ykpaunckas Corerckas Comnannernueckas Pecny6nuka):  Brnaronapio Bac, r-H IIpexcemarens. Mockonsky o6cyxgenne BOmpoca O MeTOJax paboTsl  T'pynns no pexakrHposaHHo H COTIACOBAHMI, DPEKOMEHIAMHM O KOTODHIX COAEPXATCS B JAOKY™  Mente 19 C/2 Add., He sHaunrca B xypHane cerogusmHero [UIEHA PHOTO 3acCejaHus, 9TO OSHAYE"  eT, “TO MBI MpHIIH Ha CETOJHsSMHee sacegaHke IIs TOTO, 4YTOGHE MNpONONXHTB JHCKYCCHO MO  BONpoCcaM OGmeñ NonuTHKH. DTO OsHaYaeT, YTO SKCIEpPTHl Hamed neneraunu, KOTOpHe 3aHMMa“  orcs Npoôremoï I'pymmsl no pexaKTHpOBaHNID W COTJIACOBAHWIO, CETOXHS He NpHUIUIM Ha ILIeHapr  Hoe sacemanne. Jenerauns YkpauHckod CCP npeynaraer He NpoBOJHTB CETOJHS O6CYXICHHA  BOmpoca O MeTojax pa6ors I'pynmsl HO pexakrnposauno H COIJIacOBaHHMIO, a IPOAOIXaTh Jucs  KyCCHIO NO BONPOCAM O6meñ MOINTHKH, B COOTBETCTBMM C TeM, O em ana uH®OpMaun] B XYP  Hane. Bonpoc o Dpynne MOXHO O6CYAMTH Ha OuepenHoM IVI€HAPHOM 3acegaHHH.
(6) M. KRAVETS (République socialiste soviétique d'Ukraine). - (Traduit du russe. )  Merci, Monsieur le Président, Etant donné que l'examen des méthodes de travail du Groupe de rédac-  tion et de négociation, qui font l'objet d'une recommandation dans le document 19 C/2 Add, , ne figure pes  à l'ordre du jour de la séance plénière d'aujourd'hui, nous sommes venus ici pour continuer 1e débat de por  litique générale, Cela signifie que les spécialistes de notre délégation qui s'occupent de la question a  Groupe de rédaction et de négociation, ne sont pas venus à la présente séance, La délégation dela jen  blique socialiste soviétique d'Ukraine propose donc de ne pas aborder cette question aujourd'hui, mais 2  la prochaine séance plénière, et de poursuivre maintenant le débat de politique générale, conformémen  ce qui est annoncé dans le journal de la Conférence,
7,1 The PRESIDENT:  Is the proposal of the delegate of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic seconded?
7.2 I give the floor to the delegate of the German Democratic Republic
8. Mr. HEINZE (German Democratic Republic):  Thank you Mr. President. On behalf of the delegation of the Ge i 5 rman Democratic R i  should like to support the proposal made by the distinguished delegate of the rE a : il  ist Republic.  slat-
9. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Is there anyone else who wishes to take the floor? I call on the delegate of Peru
(10) M. MORALES (Pérou). - (Traduit de l'espagnol, )  Je veux seulement appuyer la proposition faite par le délégué de l'Ukraine,
11. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the delegate of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam.
12. M. NGO DIEN (République socialiste du Viêt-nam). -  La délégation de la République socialiste du Viêt-nam appuie la proposition de l'Ukraine,
13. The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Iraq.  (REA aps yen!) pmo dese ded! yg  Cando aS VRAI Lo Sol Gps an dd ie ify AS Lalli pment) disc pup) al
(14) M. MAHJOUB (Irak). - (Traduit de l'arabe, )  Monsieur le Président, la délégation de la République irakienne appuie la proposition de l'Ukraine,
15. The PRESIDENT:  Now the head of the delegation of Mongolia, please.
16. P-xn HIMISPH (Moxrons):  Tleneranuss Monronbexoñ Hapoynoï PecnyOnukn nonnepxuBaer npexroxenne YKpanHeKoW  CoBeTckoii Connanncernueckoï PecnyOnuKxn.
(16) M. ICHTSEREN (République populaire de Mongolie). - (Traduit du russe, )  La délégation de la République populaire de Mongolie appuie la proposition de la République socialiste  soviétique d'Ukraine.
17. The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Cuba.
(18) M. LE RIVEREND (Cuba). - (Traduit de l'espagnol. ) a :  Je suis d'accord avec la proposition de la République d'Ukraine, qui a déjà recueilli l'appui des ora-  teurs qui m'ont précédé,
19.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I put the proposal of the delegate of th  public to the vote, that is that this item should not be discussed today.  e Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Re-  (Voting was by show of hands. )
19.2 The result of the vote is as follows: 67 votes in favour, 12 against and 28 abstentions.
19.3 The proposal is therefore adopted, and we will discuss this particular subject on Monday morning.  the general policy debate, I am now able to announce
19.4 Ladies and gentlemen, before we resume  fe  will be members of the Drafting and Negotiation Group.  to you the names of the four Arab States which  They are: Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Sudan.
437   GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)/DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)/ DEBATE DE  POLITICA GENERAL (continuaciôn)/ OBCY KIEH HE BOIIPOCOB OBMEH HONIHTHKH (Tporonxeu  (et) Be Laläs las wd G51,
20. The PRESIDENT: ef:  May I now have the pleasure of calling on the Commissioner of State for Education and head of  the delegation of Zaire, Mr. Mbulamoko Nzenge Movoambe.
21.1 M. MOVOAMBE (Zaire). -  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Viesdames et Messieurs les délégués  permettez-moi tout d'abord, Monsieur le Président, de m'associer aux orateurs qui m'ont précédé  pour vous féliciter, au nom de la délégation zaïroise, de votre élection à la présidence de la dix.  neuvième session de la Conférence générale. Votre longue expérience d'homme d'Etat et votre pro-  fonde connaissance de l'Unesco sont, j'en suis convaincu, le gage du succès de nos délibérations,
21.2 Je voudrais aussi, à travers vous, Monsieur le Président, rendre un hommage mérité aux  autorités de votre beau pays pour l'accueil chaleureux et fraternel dont nous avons été l'objet etles  féliciter des parfaites conditions dans lesquelles se déroulent nos travaux. ‘Je voudrais enfin remer-  cier vivement la Conférence générale de la confiance qu'elle a manifestée à la République du Zaïre  en lui confiant la vice-présidence de ses assises.
21.3 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués,  la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale, la première à se tenir en Afrique depuis l'élec-  tion d'un éminent fils de l'Afrique, M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, à la tête du Secrétariat de l'Unesco  constitue, en effet, un événement de portée historique pour l'Afrique, C'est la première fois quese  tiennent sur la terre africaine les assises de l'organe suprême de l'Unesco. Cet événement revêt  pour nous, Africains, une importance significative car il témoigne non seulement du désir profond  des peuples de notre continent d'apporter, à leur manière, une contribution active à l'oeuvre com-  mune de l'édification de la paix dans le monde, mais aussi de leur refus de rester des spectateurs  plus ou moins passifs face aux grands problèmes qui affectent aujourd'hui l'humanité et conditionnent  son avenir. L'Afrique entend ainsi jouer désormais, dans la plénitude de la souveraineté des Etats  qui la composent, le rôle qui lui revient sur l'échiquier international.
21.4 Si l'événement auquel je viens de faire allusion, à savoir la tenue de la dix-neuvième session  de la Conférence générale à Nairobi, revêt pour nous une importance particulière, le Projet de  plan à moyen terme pour 1977-1982 (document 19 C/4) marque incontestablement un tournant déci-  sif dans la vie de l'Unesco. En effet, le Secrétariat, grâce à un travail de réflexion et de concerta-  tion s'appuyant sur un personnel compétent, a réussi d'une façon remarquable à cerner les grands  problèmes auxquels la communauté mondiale se trouve aujourd'hui confrontée, Jamais l'analyse  critique de ces grands problèmes, qu'il s'agisse de la paix, des droits de l'homme ou du dévelop-  pement, n'a atteint un tel degré de profondeur.
21.5 L'enseignement principal que l'on peut tirer de ce document est que la situation mondiale ne  cesse de se dégrader, faisant peser sur l'humanité la menace permanente d'une nouvelle conflagra-  tion généralisée, aux conséquences incalculables, Les dépenses d'armement ont atteint aujourd'hui  des proportions faramineuses, cependant que les trois quarts de la population de notre planète  vivent dans la pauvreté et le dénuement. Les inégalités entre les pays riches et les pays pauvres  ont pris aujourd'hui des dimensions sans précédent du fait de systèmes économiques et monétaires  qui favorisent les premiers au détriment des seconds, La destruction et le gaspillage des ressources  terrestres non renouvelables font naître partout l'inquiétude, voire l'angoisse, Partout à traversle  monde éclatent des conflits entre Etats et des luttes intestines entre communautés nationales, ré-  sultant des injustices et des inégalités qui caractérisent la société moderne.
21.6 Dire que l'humanité prépare sa propre destruction est aujourd'hui un truisme. C'est de la  capacité et de la volonté clairement affirmée de la communauté internationale d'apporter des solu-  tions appropriées à cette situation que dépend la paix dans le monde, Car, comme l'a si bien écrit  le Directeur général, "la paix est une et indivisible. Elle ne saurait être si des frictions et des  conflits continuent d'affecter quelque partie de la planète que ce soit, si l'égalité souveraine de  toutes les nations et de tous les peuples n'est pas établie, et elle ne saurait être durable sans être  juste, sans respect des droits de l'homme, sans développement vrai de tout homme et de la totalité  des hommes'. Voilà qui éclaire d'un jour nouveau les données fondamentales des relations interna-  tionales dans le monde actuel. Voilà le défi lancé à la communauté mondiale dont nous faisons tous  partie, riches ou pauvres, grands ou petits. Il s'agit avant tout de substituer à un ordre injuste de  par son essence même une nouvelle éthique des relations entre les hommes, basée sur la commi-  nauté d'intérêts et, pour employer un terme consacré, sur la coresponsabilité.
21.7 Les principes et les modalités d'action proposés par le Directeur général dans le document
19 C/4 annoncent, à nos yeux, la contribution extrêmement riche que l'Unesco, dans les domaines  de sa compétence, peut apporter à la réflexion sur le nouvel ordre économique international, Je  tiens donc à féliciter le Directeur général, et à travers lui le Secrétariat, pour le travail remar-  quable qu'ils ont réalisé, C'est avec une profonde conviction que nous appuyons la place faite à  l'identité culturelle qui, de l'avis même du Directeur général, constitue une des idées-forces au  tour desquelles s'articulent les grandes orientations du Plan à moyen terme pour 1977-1982 et les
438      activités du programme pour 1977-1978. Ces préoccupations rejoignent, en effet, notre conception  de l'authenticité comme condition sine qua non d'un développement véritable et d'une ee co- opération internationale, Ainsi que l'a réaffirmé récemment, à Dakar, le président-fondateur du Mouvement populaire de la Révolution, président de la République du Zaire, le citoyen Mobutu Sese  Seko, "notre idée de développement est tributaire du concept d'authenticité. Tout comme il n'y a  pas de réel épanouissement de la personnalité dans l'aliénation, dans le manque de dignité et dans  l'incapacité de créer, nous estimons que le développement de tout peuple requiert la maîtrise de sa destinée, c'est-à-dire l'indépendance culturelle, la reconquête de sa dignité et de sa souveraineté  et, enfin, la volonté de son intégration harmonieuse dans le milieu naturel, social et culturel". Le  développement intégral est pour nous, Zaïrois, celui qui se fait dans l'harmonie et plonge ses ra-  cines dans les habitudes de ceux qui en sont non seulement les bénéficiaires mais également les ar-  tisans. Ce développement intégral dans le cadre de l'identité culturelle signifie pour nous également  la reconnaissance et le respect de l'identité culturelle des autres,
21.8 Parallèlement, et même au-delà de la nécessité aujourd'hui reconnue et développée d'un nou-  vel ordre économique international, nous pensons au Zaire qu'il faut reconnaître et promouvoir un  nouvel ordre culturel international. Car, et je cite encore le président Mobutu, "la culture demeure  la seule voie de développement des nations, elle est au début et à la fin de tout projet de développe-  ment, bref, elle en est à la fois la raison et la finalité'. Aussi nous semble-t-il qu'une des mis-  sions primordiales de l'Unesco devrait être la recherche et la promotion d'un nouvel ordre cultu-  rel - voire socioculturel - international. C'est pourquoi la République du Zaire favorise non seule-  ment le développement des sciences exactes et naturelles, mais aussi celui des sciences del'homme,
21.9 Permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, d'esquisser à grands traits les préoccupations du  Zaïre dans le domaine des sciences exactes et naturelles d'abord, et ensuite dans celui des sciences  de l'homme. Sur un plan général, l'organe chargé de la politique et de la planification scientifiques  est l'Institut de la recherche scientifique, l'IRS, qui dépend directement du Bureau du Président de  la République. L'Université nationale du Zaire, directement responsable de la formation des cher-  cheurs, a également reçu pour mission de promouvoir la recherche scientifique et l'enseignement  technique supérieur, Un accent particulier est mis sur le domaine des sciences de la nature, de la  terre et de l'eau, En effet, le Zaïre dispose de réserves minières, floristiques et zoologiques,  ainsi que d'une hydrographie appréciable, Nous tenons encore ici à remercier l'Unesco qui nous  aide à réaliser une expérience unique en Afrique aujourd'hui, à savoir celle de la formation sur  place des docteurs destinés à l'enseignement universitaire et à l'industrie, dans le cadre du projet  BEPUZA (Bureau d'études postuniversitaires au Zafre). Toujours dans le domaine des sciences  exactes et appliquées, nous sommes heureux de mentionner notre Centre national devenu centre ré-  gional pour l'Afrique subsaharienne, le Centre régional des études nucléaires (CREN), qui recherche  des fins pacifiques par le développement des potentiels médical, agricole et de l'énergie atomique  pure, C'est un exemple international des centres d'excellence que, depuis 1968, l'Unesco vise à  créer et à développer.
21.10 À cet égard, nous partageons entièrement l'idée, exprimée par le Directeur général dansle  document 19 C/4, selon laquelle chaque société, puisant aux sources communes du savoir accumulé  par l'homme, doit être capable d'une vraie création scientifique et technique, respectueuse de sa  propre authenticité. D'où l'intérêt qu'il convient d'accorder d'une part à la mise en place, dans les  pays sous-équipés, de structures d'accueil permettant de réaliser le transfert de technologie, et  d'autre part à la promotion d'une technologie réellement endogène,
21.11 Ainsi que nous l'avons souligné plus haut, les sciences de l'homme font l'objet d'une préoc-  cupation particulière dans la République du Zaire, qui fournit un effort exceptionnel pour l'amélio-  ration des conditions de vie de ses habitants, la prise en charge de la jeunesse, qui a son secréta-  riat général au sein du Parti national, le Mouvement populaire de la révolution, la campagne pour  la paix dans le monde et la libération des nations sous domination étrangère,
21.12 La recherche en sciences sociales se développe de façon structurée au sein d'un centre in-  ternational que financent l'Unesco et le Zaire, à savoir le CERDAS (Centre de coordination des re-  cherches et de la documentation en sciences sociales pour l'Afrique subsaharienne). Nous espérons  que les Etats africains intéressés par les activités de ce centre feront tout pour que celui-ci puisse  donner réellement les résultats escomptés. Outre les facultés et départements q'enscignetent et  de recherche en sciences humaines qui existent en son sein, l'Université nationale du Zaïre a reçu  mandat de créer une nouvelle chaire dite "chaire des civilisations".
21.13 Par ailleurs, en ce qui concerne l'éducation concernant l'environnement et la protection de  la nature, il existe déjà au sein du Conseil exécutif, c'est-à-dire du gouvernement, un département  ministériel de l'environnement et de la conservation de la nature, et à l'université, rattachée à la  Faculté des sciences naturelles, une unité d'enseignement et de recherche spécialisée dans ce nou-  veau domaine d'intérêt. Nous sommes heureux de constater que les grands projets internationaux  comme le Programme sur l'homme et la biosphère (MAB), le Programme hydrologique EE  nal, la Commission océanographique intergouvernementale, etc. , continuent a bénéficier d en at-  tention soutenue de la part du Secrétariat. Car nous croyons au Zaire que 1 Teh, qui est e  berceau de l'humanité, doit être aussi le berceau de l'humanisme!'', comme l'a bien dit le président  Mobutu.
21.14 L'éducation permanente a aussi une place privilégiée dans mon pays. Cette tâche est accom-  plie par et à l'université, qui a organisé tout un système structuré, tant au niveau élémentaire qu'ay  niveau supérieur : il s'agit du CIDEP (Centre interdisciplinaire pour le développement et l'éducation  permanente). Dans ce domaine de l'éducation, je rends hommage à l'Unesco pour son importante  contribution à la rationalisation de notre système d'éducation non classique et traditionnelle, Et ce  système d'éducation, nous remercions l'Unesco de nous avoir aidés - et de nous aider encore - à  le repenser, en mettant au point, notamment avec le concours de nos experts nationaux, un rapport  volumineux et approfondi qui pourra nous conduire vers ce que le président Mobutu appelle à juste  titre la révolution du système d'éducation.
21.15 Pour ce qui est de l'ensemble des sciences aidant au développement du continent africain,  nous remercions tous les africanistes ici présents d'avoir confié au Zaïre la présidence et le se.  crétariat général du Congrès international des études africaines (CIAF), qui sera en 19781e rendez-  vous africain et mondial des sciences et des cultures de l'Afrique, Nous saisissons aussi cette oc-  casion pour prier les Etats membres ici présents qui ne l'ont pas encore fait d'inviter les africa-  nistes de leur pays à constituer les comités nationaux du CIAF et à organiser leurs programmesde  recherches planifiées.
21.16 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les délé-  gués, dans le domaine particulier de l'éducation, nous sommes conscients, au Zaire, de la néces-  sité d'adapter notre système aux réalités et aux besoins socioculturels actuels de notre pays, C'est  pourquoi nous sommes en train d'étudier les voies et moyens non seulement de le réformer en pro-  fondeur, et, encore mieux, de révolutionner notre système d'éducation, Notre objectif est de cons-  truire une société zairoise harmonieuse et juste, où tous les enfants zaïrois, depuis celui du plus  haut cadre jusqu'à celui du paysan, pourront recevoir une même éducation scolaire, une même édu-  cation politique et civique et unesmême instruction militaire, Pour cela, tous les enfants doivent  recevoir une éducation identique dans un système d'enseignement unique.
21.17 Monsieur le Frésident, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués,  l'Unesco et ses Etats membres se trouvent dans ce domaine devant une tâche d'une ampleur consi-  dérable. C'est pourquoi nous estimons que les orientations données à l'action de notre Organisation  dans le Plan à moyen terme pour 1977-1982 sont fort remarquables, Mais les activités et les moyens  correspondants, tels qu'ils sont prévus dans le Projet de programme et de budget, ne semblent pas  répondre à l'importance et à l'urgence des problèmes à résoudre, Il y a là matière à réflexion pour  le Secrétariat et pour les Etats membres,
21.18 La délégation zairoise fait siennes les idées pertinentes exprimées par le Secrétariat con-  cernant la communication, à savoir que ''chaque société doit avoir la capacité d'émettre pour elle-  même et pour les autres les messages qui expriment sa vision des affaires du monde, et non ‘être  tributaire de quelques centres privilégiés qui donnent à l'information une coloration reflétant les  réalités et les valeurs de leur propre culture''. Nous estimons que la situation actuelle, caractéri-  sée par la circulation à sens unique de l'information, doit faire place à un échange équilibré, etque  l'information doit servir de support à la diffusion de la culture. Nous croyons avoir réalisé cela au  Zaïre. C'est pourquoi nous saluons comme une initiative très heureuse la fusion, au sein du Secré-  tariat, des secteurs de la communication et de la culture.
21.19 Enfin, nous saisissons cette occasion pour souligner également la nécessité et l'urgence de  la mise en oeuvre de la résolution 3.428 adoptée par la Conférence générale à sa dix-huitième s s-  sion, concernant la contribution de l'Unesco à la restitution des biens culturels aux pays victimes  d'expropriation de fait.
21.20 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués,  la République du Zaïre appuie le Projet de budget pour l'exercice 1977-1978 présenté avec lucidité  par le Directeur général, Permettez-moi cependant de dire un mot sur certaines questions rela-  tives à l'exécution du budget. Jusqu'à présent, les projets de l'Organisation comportent l'envoi  d'experts et la réalisation d'activités. Le coût d'un projet inclut également les salaires des experts  et le coût de certains matériels mis à leur disposition, de sorte qu'on a pu constater parfois des  dépenses excessives au titre des experts, au détriment des activités proprement dites, Je suggère  qu'une liberté suffisante soit accordée à l'Etat bénéficiaire, dans la mesure où le projet qu'il pré-  sente est bien défini à tous les points de vue, A ce sujet, nous soutenons le projet de création au  sein du Secrétariat, auprès de la Direction générale, de deux nouveaux services, à savoir un Bu-  reau d'études et de programmation et une Inspection générale des services, Nous sommes convall-  cus que le recours à des experts en majorité nationaux apporterait une solution à ce problème.
21.21 En conclusion, je réaffirme avec force l'adhésion de mon pays à l'Unesco, vu que celle-c}  se préoccupe activement d'universaliser, culturellement, politiquement et scientifiquement, les vêr  leurs fondamentales de l'humanité, dans leurs multiples dimensions, La République du Zaire fonde  sur ces valeurs les principes de sa vie et de son développement, dans le concert des nations libres  et à libérer. Je vous remercie.  (Mr. OWUSU-FORDWOUH, Ghana, took the chair)
29. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr. Commissioner for your brilliant speech. ; ; ss I now give the fl  HE. Mrs. Ritt Bjerregaard, Minister of Education and head o : ony f the delegation of Denmark.
23,1 Mrs. BJERREGAARD (Denmark):  Mr. President, first of all I wish to join the previous speakers in congratulating you on your  election as President of this nineteenth session of Unesco's General Conference The fact he the  Conference is taking place in this beautiful capital, far away from the normal seat  Unesco's General Conference, is evidence of the high importance which Kenya, since its indepen-  dence, has attached to educational development, nationally as well as internationally. We are  grateful to the Government and the people of Kenya for their hospitality, and personallyI am happy  to visit this country with which Denmark has for many years had very close co-operation.  of sessions of
23.2 The main item on the Agenda of this Conference is the adoption of the Medium- Term Plan for  the years 1977-1982. This Plan has been prepared over quite a lengthy period of time, and its dif-  ferent steps have been discussed at three consecutive General Conferences before this one. The out-  come, as presented to us in document 19 C/4, is a comprehensive document with many fine qualities  and - in our opinion - some drawbacks to which I shall return later. On the whole I think it will con-  stitute a sound basis for the work of the Organization during the six years to come. Our comments  on the contexts of the Medium- Term Plan will be given mainly in the Commissions and working groups  of the Conference. I shall, therefore, confine myself to a few observations on those parts of the Plan  which I have found particularly important.
23.3 Unesco's constitutional obligations make it obvious that human rights and peace must always  be at the core of the Organization's work. These two problem areas have been placed according to  their importance, and we can agree to that. We cannot speak about human rights without speaking  about equality as one of the most important components of the picture. In Unesco's work in its  broadest field of competence, that of education, the principle of equal access to education was for-  mulated many years ago. Today it is clear that we cannot accept formal obstacles which prevent  people from starting their education, but this is not enough in societies where education is regarded  as one among several tools used to achieve the political goal of the greatest possible equality in liv-  ing conditions for all members of society. I therefore appreciate finding far-reaching ideas of  equality in education reflected in Unesco's Medium-Term Plan which links educational action to  individual and social requirements, and to economic, social and cultural development. Among the  means of achieving a real equal right to education are mentioned: the promotion of diversified  structures to match the needs of different groups, the overall concept of life-long education, the  intensification of the struggle against illiteracy, and the importance of adult education. We agree  on the importance of these. I should have liked, perhaps, to see more solid reference to the prob-  lems of those remainder groups in every country who drop out of the educational system at a much  too early stage. We must not accept the waste of human possibilities which they represent, but make  every effort, at the national as well as the global level, to work out suitable solutions to their problems.
23.4 Over the last few years we have witnessed a remarkable intensification of the international  development dialogue. More than ever before we realize the extent to which the social and economic  development of any country is subject to common problems to which common solutions must be  found, and we realize that the international community only thrives as long as its constituent parts  do. It was in recognition of these considerations that the United Nations proclaimed its determina-  tion to establish a new international economic order. This order should be based on a full under-  standing of the growing interdependence of all sectors of the world community, not merely a humani-  tarian consideration, but the right of all peoples - including the poorest - to share in the wealth of  the world. Unesco followed suit at the eighteenth session of the General Conference by adopting a  resolution on the Organization's contribution to the establishment of a new international economic  order. This resolution is reflected many times in the Medium-Term Plan. Unesco's role in con-  nection with the new international economic order is examined, and the new concept of "endogenous  development'' is introduced, to stress that development should be planned and carried out by each  nation in terms of its own choices and in accordance with its authentic values. I consider this as-  pect of development a very important one. As long as 800 million people are illiterates, and 130  million children between six and twelve years of age are without schools, Unesco's role inrelation  to development seems unlimited. In our opinion Unesco should above all assist the poorest of the  developing countries and help them prepare the policies and structures which will further that en-  dogenous development in the field of education, science and culture.
23.5 Two sections of the Medium-Term Plan deal with women: one section concerning the improve-  ment of the status of women as a human right, and another on promotion of the participation by:  women in economic, social and cultural development. The latter is part of the chapter dealing with  improvement in the opportunities for certain groups to achieve their potential. Well,” if half the  world's population still needs to be regarded and treated as a "certain group this is in al evi-  dence that the problems of women have not yet been solved. In spite of International Women's Year  and the International Conference in Mexico there is still a very long way to go, and my Government  fully supports Unesco's action in this field. The international community, by launching the United  Nations Decade for Women, has accepted the obligation to achieve substantial progress during this  decade. Unesco has an important part to play here.
23.6 Within the science programme, the problems concerning the interaction between science and  society are of paramount importance in industrialized and developing countries alike. I have noted  with particular satisfaction that the obligation of the scientist to make his work understandable to  non-scientists has been stressed several times in the Medium- Term Plan as well as in the recom.  mendations of the Executive Board. The promotion, preservation and protection of culture in its  many different forms has also been one of Unesco's main tasks since the Organization started work  thirty years ago. In the Medium-Term Plan, these questions are rather dispersed, mentioneq as  they are in several different chapters with no common heading. If this means that there will be no  coherent cultural programme in Unesco in the future, I wish to warn against this tendency, Culture  is, along with education and science, one of Unesco's main obligations and must not disappearin the  multitude of other problems.
23.7 Finally, I have a few words to say on the communication chapter in the Medium- Term Plan,  The Universal Declaration of Human Rights has as one of its principles the right to freedom of  opinion and expression, including the right to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through  any media and regardless of borders. To this I think most of us can agree. But when it comes to  definitions we find ourselves in a delicate field. My country wants to contribute to studies and re.  search concerning the right to communicate. It is therefore also with considerable sympathy that  we have noticed the wish of the Third World to develop their national news media. We wish to con.  tribute to finding solutions to the problems involved in this respect, it being clearly understood that  the co-operation with other news media must be continued and developed to safeguard the freedom of  all media to collect and disseminate news. We cherish a highly developed respect for the freedom of  the press, implying also absence of governmental interference. We want the international responsi.  bility in this field to remain with Unesco.
23.8 These remarks on certain parts of the C/4 document lead to my conclusion. We appreciate  the in-depth treatment of the problems and are largely in agreement with the Plan as a whole. We  should, however, have preferred a higher degree of concentration on a few, selected objectives of  very high importance, so as to avoid dispersion of forces. We can accept thé average growth rate  of 6 per cent per biennium as proposed. But we have one objection which concerns the form of the  document. Covering 356 pages, in very small print, written in long periods and a very specific  language, itis very difficult to read. We have encountered serious difficulties, because many of  the specialists whom we wanted to give their opinion on the Plan could not spare the time to pen-  etrate into this very long and difficult text. I cannot resist the temptation to quote from the report  of the Panel of Counsellors who have given advice to the Director-General. It says: "Unesco has  acquired a language of its own. The special nature of this language often disconcerts those who do  not have long experience of working with the Organization; it restricts genuine understanding of the  ultimate aims of the Organization's programmes to small groups of initiates; it discourages those  delegates who, though they are real specialists, lack familiarity with the procedures specific to  Unesco. It is necessary for Unesco to change its language''. We hope this appeal may prove fruit-  ful in future documents.
23.9 The Director-General's introduction has an excellent description of trends and developments  in the Organization. The budget growth is thoroughly analysed and explained; it is regrettable that  the total budget increase of 35 per cent over the last biennium makes room only for 4.2 per cent  real growth, but in the given circumstances a higher growth rate would not be feasible. My Govern-  ment supports the budget as presented in the revision of document 19 C/5.
23.10 At the last session of the General Conference my country expressed apprehension at thevery  high number of recommendations and declarations which were at that time under preparation in the  Organization. We felt that it would be preferable to concentrate on few and extremely well prepared  documents of this kind. I have noted with satisfaction that the number of new instruments of this  kind proposed in 19 C/5 has been considerably reduced, and that the Executive Board has recom-  mended reduction and careful preparation. In our opinion recommendations or declarations on highly  controversial topics should be avoided, because even if accepted by a small majority they will hardly  have any practical effect. The preparatory work should be carefully planned, possibly extendedover  a longer period of time and comprising several expert meetings. Long documents might gain bybe-  ing split up into a short main text with annexed explanatory comments. The very long recommenda-  tions we have sometimes seen are not fit for translation and distribution to the general public and  therefore do not achieve the proper effect in Member States.
23.11 My last remark concerns the relationship between future C/4 and C/5 documents. It does  not seem advisable to burden the General Conference every six years with the approval of a new  medium-term plan as well as a two-year programme and budget covering the first biennium of the  same six-year period. We are, therefore, in favour of a solution by which the medium-term plan  will be adopted prior to the working out of the Programme and Budget for the first two-year period-  be it by means of a rolling plan or by a sequence of terms. Mr. President, during this nineteenth  session of the General Conference we shall celebrate Unesco's thirtieth anniversary. This must  make us stop and reflect awhile, proud and grateful for all that the Organization has achieved during  its thirty years, and conscious of the need to stand together in an extensive and ever-developing co:  operation. Only thus will the high aims and aspirations of Unesco be realized. Thank yoy,  Mr. President.
24. The PRESIDENT:  [thank the head of the delegation of Denmark and Inow :  give the floor to the H Minister of Education, head of the delegation of the Unite Wr  d Republic of Tanzania. swing
95.1 Mr. ELINEWINGA (United Republic of Tanzania):  Mr. President, allow me to begin by fully associatin  congratulating you upon your election to the presidency o  ference. On behalf of the United Republic of Tanzania I  Mr. President, to congratulate the Government of our sister neighbour Republic of Kenya on its  bold initiative in hosting this General Conference, the first ever to be held on the African continent  The holding of the General Conference away from the Organization's Paris Headquarters, its usual .  venue, gives us the very rare opportunity of viewing Unesco's work from the receiving end more  realistically. Above all, I particularly wish to be fully associated with the congratulatory senti-  ments extended to H. E. Mr. Jomo Kenyatta, the President of the Republic of Kenya, for  wise words at the opening meeting of this Conference.  g myself with my honourable colleagues in  f this nineteenth session of the General Con-  also take this opportunity, through you,  his very
25.2 I wish also to welcome among us the new members of this Organization. I am referring to  Grenada, the People's Republique of Mozambique, Papua New Guinea, Surinam and the Republic of  Seychelles and, we hope in a few days, if not hours, to come, the People's Republic of Angola. With  the strong wind of change increasing in momentum day by day in southern Africa, we look forward  to welcoming among us majority ruled, independent Zimbabwe, Namibia and South Africa in the near  future.
25.3 The activities of Unesco for the biennium which is shortly coming to a close bear the stamp  of the new Director-General. It seems to us to have been a period of spirited activities by the Or-  ganization against many odds never before experienced in the annals of Unesco's history. On our  part we do condemn very strongly the vilification campaign by some intellectuals against Unesco  under the guise of so-called intellectual motives. We expect intellectuals to spearhead international  understanding.
25.4 Now, Mr. President, I intend to mention only a few examples of what I consider are the high-  lights of the Organization's achievements during this biennium. First the dynamic efforts of the  Director-General himself, by his contacts with the Member States and through his personal visits,  have put into proper perspective the crisis facing the Organization. In this way he has had the sym-  pathy and understanding of all the well-meaning people and nations and brought the Organization still  closer to the Member States. Secondly, the restructuring of the Secretariat to bring it into line with  the programme it will execute is timely. None the less this exercise should be a continuous process  to be carried out as and when desirable. Thirdly, a good start seems to have been made in pro-  gramming by objectives as is evident from the form of document 19 C/5. This encouraging start  augurs well for full programming by objectives in the future.
25.5 Mr. President, the original problems and objectives in the Medium-Term Plan have so far  been retained without substantive modifications. This signifies that they are broadly conceived and  that their wide scope encompasses all major priority activities in Unesco's fields of competence.  To that end, Mr. President, my delegation does not intend to suggest changes to the proposals sub-  mitted by the Director-General in document 19 C/4, whether in the way of revising the terms sug-  gested for the targets or modification of priorities or of specific objectives. But before I leave dis-  cussing the Medium- Term Plan, may I sound a note of caution. Mr. President, although our planning  is to be in the form of objectives, in the final analysis what Member States expect of Un sco are con-  crete programmes of action in Unesco's fields of competence in education, science, culture and com-  munication. In our own countries, our national activities are determined by concrete programmes  of action. Since Unesco should be a reflection of Member States we should not expect it to be dif-  ferent from them in its activities. Mr. President, we view the objectives as ideals, as the ultimate  goals to be attained by the Organization, and the programmes as the means to attain these goals. It  is therefore my hope, beginning with this biennium as I indicated earlier, that these objectives will  be concretized into meaningful programmes of action biennially, as the Director-General promises,  and that we, the Member States, will play our part by giving the Organization the resources required  for execution at successive General Conferences. Planningbyobjectivesdoes not in any way reduce  our moral and financial commitment to Unesco, if anything, it increases our obligations.
25.6 Mr. President, let me now more specifically turn to the Draft Programme and Budget for the
1977-1978 biennium. In so far as education is concerned, I am happy to note that the activities are  based essentially on the preoccupations of Member States in their efforts to find solutions to their  own problems. I am also encouraged by the fact that Unesco now not only recognizes the importance  of education, but also places it in practical terms within the context of problems related to develop-  ment. In this regard, Mr. President, I would wish to emphasize another aspect to educational  thinking and development, namely education for the liberation of man. And for that matter, not only  countries under colonial and minority rule need to be liberated but even those of us who are politic-  ally independent. The effects of education that has not liberated man are all too evident around the  world. For example, youthful rebellion in the form of increased juvenile delinquency in various  Socio-economic systems both among the affluent and the poor. There are also frequent examples  these days of young men and women who go up the entire educational ladder from primary school to  university but cannot later find gainful employment either on their own or in the service of the so-  ciety to which they belong. What is clear from these examples is that education has made the young
443   people prisoners instead of masters of their environments. It is tragic that education, a commodit  in which so many States invest so much of their resources, should have suchnegative effects, Tt  regard, Mr. President, Unesco faces a great challenge in helping. Member States in restructuring  and renovating the contents of their education systems as has, indeed, been urged at several Unesco  regional conferences on education. For it is not enough merely to expand technical and Vocational  education, higher education, adult education and rural education unless this is geared towards mak.  ing man fully liberated.
25.7 Mr. President, to conclude on education, I would wish to draw the attention of the General  Conference to a more domestic issue. In Tanzania, we too have embarked on Universal Primary  Education which we intend to attain by the end of 1977. We intend to implement this programme at  a minimum cost, using as far as possible, local resources, especially as regards manpower, We  know this sounds a very ambitious venture for a State which is among the world's 25 least-developeq  countries. None the less we feel that the decision is timely, and can be carried out by everyone  playing his part, basing our experiences on our Universal Literacy Programmes. I wish to ask the  international community, through this Organization, for its co-operation, particularly in the way of  exchange of information and experience. Such international exchanges of information and experi-  ences have helped and are helping us considerably in implementing our Universal Literacy  Programme.
25.8 Mr. President, for most of our developing countries the science education programme, es-  pecially in the applied fields of agriculture and engineering, still remains the most important. Al  though the space feats arouse much curiosity and interest, there is no doubt that technical skills to  improve ways and means of production of food, and improvement of health of the larger part of the  world community will still remain the major concern. It is against this background that my delega-  tion views with very serious concern the adverse effects of the international economic crisis onsci-  entific educational training programmes.
25.9 In so far as the ecological sciences are concerned, the nineteenth session of the General Con-  ference is being held in our part of the world where the fauna and flora are of special significance.  I am sure that distinguished delegates from other parts of the world will avail themselves of their  presence here, to travel round Eastern Africa and see for themselves what nature has in store. But,  apart from being merely of tourist attraction, we feel the ecological aspects need even more atten-  tion. This natural habitat, as has happened in many other parts of the world, faces the greatdanger  of extinction from unscrupulous people, both local and foreign. We feel that both Unesco and the  United Nations Environment Programme should be able to do more in the field of conservation, es-  pecially through their co-operation in the Man and the Biosphere Programme. In this connection,  Mr. President, I am glad to say that my country has now become a party to the 1972 Convention for  the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage. We intend to give Unesco all possible  co-operation in seeing to it that this Convention is enforced practically.
25.10 Mr. President, in so far as the earth sciences are concerned, experience shows that their  development is being handicapped by lack of relevant data, for instance where natural resources  are available, the extent of their availability is sometimes insufficient to justify their economic ex-  ploitation. Recent events have shown the disastrous consequences of natural disasters of geophysi-  cal origin in several parts of the world, and have also shown how dependent we are on the availability  of data. We know that some countries have been able to reduce serious earthquake damage because  of the data accumulated over the years. It is in this regard that we view the importance of the de-  velopment of the International Geological Correlation Programme, which is expected to become  fully operational in the coming biennium.
25.11 Mr. President, to conclude on the natural sciences, I wish to make a passing reference to  what I consider should be Unesco's role in energy development. It is an open secret that in the  present world economic crisis, world attention has been focused on energy resources. Only last  month the East African Academy, a leading non-governmental organization in the three East African  Community States, held a symposium at Arusha, where the Community's headquarters is based, and  deliberated on energy resources in East Africa. This symposium which was attended by some lead-  ing East African scientists came to the conclusion that there were various potentialities of energy  resources in East Africa, in particular hydro-energy and solar energy that could be economically  developed. My appeal is that initiatives of this nature should be encouraged and supportedby Unesco.
25.12 Mr. President, I note that the social sciences are again being developed with emphasis on  their promotion and their application to problems of development throughout the world. In this Way  they retain their central role of serving as the conscience of the entire programme.
25.13 As regards human rights, significantly it was at the thirteenth session of the General Confer-  ence that Unesco decided to begin programmes for the African liberation movements. Today, some  twelve years later, most of the liberation movements themselves are fully and legally represented  here to speak for themselves. My only appeal is that at this juncture when their victory is more  certain than ever before, this General Conference should be even more firmly behind the liberation  movements. These dozen years of experience should also help in putting the Organization on amore  positive path in its co-operation with the liberation movements. At the same time, although sois  of what were liberation movements are now representing independent sovereign States, Unesco  should continue, at their own request, to give them assistance.
95,14 Mr. President, as Unesco further develops its Programming by objectives in future biennia  we look forward to seeing more cultural and geographical balance in the development of its philo-  sophical concepts. The place of the philosophies of young nations is not clear in the programme  for the forthcoming biennium. Withregard to culture and communication, we appreciate the Director-  General's arguments that have led him to group these two together, namely to develop communication  facilities alongside with community cultural values. It is our hope that, in practice, the arguments  will justify their future development along these lines. ;
25.15 While discussing the natural sciences, I mentioned our becoming a party to the Convention  concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage. I would add that Tanzania  has also recently become a party to the 1970 Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing  the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property. Once again, I pledge my  country's support in the implementation of this Convention
25.16 Mr. President, Tanzania fully appreciates and strongly supports what Unesco is doing in the  field of preservation of monumental sites, but we feel that the time has now come for the Organiza-  tion to consider such projects in all the geographical and cultural areas of its Member States. As  far as I know, the only project of significance for the African continent with regard to restorationis  the campaign to save the Nubian monuments. I think this session of the General Conference should  be made aware of other monumental sites on this continent on which other large-scale projects could  be launched. We have for instance the Olduvai Gorge in Tanzania where a great deal of excavation  has been done. It was at the Olduvai Gorge that the skull of the most ancient man known was found.
25.17 Mr. President, in connection with the implementation of the ten-year Unesco African history  programme, a group of some fourteen East African countries met in Zanzibar last month and set the  machinery in action for the setting up of a centre for African languages and oral traditions. We know  that this is a bold step on our part in Eastern Africa, and we believe it is timely. I am sure other  parts of the world which have benefited from the development of their languages and oral traditions  will sympathize with us in this venture. We would therefore wish to appeal to the General Confer-  ence that it should not merely look at this project with curious interest but should be ready to sup-  port it both morally and materially. We very much appreciate the contributions Unesco itself has  made to this project. I might add that the setting up of a centre like this makes it possible for African  culture to be studied in Africa and will help Africa develop its languages. Unesco should also con-  tinue to give encouragement to Member States that are working to develop their own communication  media. Some countries are just establishing their own news agencies and book production establish-  ments. The co-operation of other Member States will also be appreciated.
25.18 Mr. President, we have also noted that the recommendations of regional and expert meetings  of National Commissions are beginning to be given due weight as is evident from the Draft Pro-  gramme and Budget. This is as it should be, for according to Article VII of Unesco's Constitution  they are the only legal institutions linking the Member States and Unesco; in practice they are the  only ones which undertake these functions in many Member States.
25.19 Mr. President, I should like to conclude by saying a few words on the budget itself and at the  same time refer to the financial situation of this Organization. My delegation is satisfied with the  Director-General's justification for his budget as given in his introduction to document 19 C/5. We  have further noted the three subsequent downward revisions he has made, that in essence reduce  the budget. This is not an easy thing to do in these difficult inflationary times. My delegation's  major concern is that some of the budgetary allocations are so low that we wonder whether their  programmes are going to make an adequate impact. Mr. President, having been satisfied by the  Director-General's arguments, we were ready to vote for the original budget figure of $235, 850, 000.  However, we are now ready to support the reduced third amendment figure of $224, 413, 000 as given  in document 19 C/5 Rev. 3. On the extra-budgetary resources, I have already had occasionearlier  to refer to some UNDP projects that have suffered as a result of reduced funds from this source.  The funds the UNDP required are very small in relation to the resources that are used by the world  for destructive purposes in armament, let alone in relation to the total world wealth. We believe  that, if the world community genuinely wants to solve the world economic crisis, itis able to do so.  But if we merely expect the raw materials such as cotton, coffee, sisal and tea to fall in price while  the prices of oil and of manufactured goods such as tractors, lorries and building materials rise,  then the end of the international economic crisis is not in sight.
25.20 Mr. President, I now wish to turn to the more relevant question underlying the present  financial crisis facing the Organization emanating from the refusal of some Member States to  make their contributions because of certain aspects of resolutions adopted by the eighteenth ses-  sion of the General Conference. We find it very difficult to understand this refusal when the Mem-  ber States concerned had voted for that budget. We are convinced that all the Member States are  obliged to make their contributions to the budget voted by the General Conference. The Member  States concerned must on their part show co-operation to save Unesco from any brinkmanship that  would be of benefit to no-one. I thank you, Mr. President.
26. The PRESIDENT: ( ;  I thank the head of the delegation of the United Republic of Tanzania and call upon Mr. Ngo  Dien, head of the delegation of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam.
27.1 M. NGO DIEN (République socialiste du Viét-nam). -  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs, il échoit hs  jourd'hui à notre délégation le très grand honneur de vous adresser à vous, Monsieur le Président  Monsieur le Directeur général, ainsi qu'aux éminentes personnalités ici présentes les salutations  chaleureuses de la République socialiste du Viêt-nam, du Viêt-nam indépendant et uni dont la fon-  dation remonte presque à la même époque que celle de l'Unesco et dont la voix authentique se fait  entendre pour la première fois en ce moment au sein de cette illustre assemblée. Notre présence  actuelle comme Etat membre de cette organisation marque l'aboutissement d'une lutte longue et dure  d'une trentaine d'années du peuple vietnamien pour son indépendance et sa liberté, pour les objec-  tifs mêmes de l'Unesco : la paix, les libertés fondamentales de l'homme, les droits nationaux des  peuples, la sauvegarde et le développement de leur culture nationale, Ainsi associée à la lutte mon-  diale pour les idéaux communs de l'humanité, la lutte du peuple vietnamien a suscité la sympathie  agissante et le soutien grandissant des peuples des pays socialistes, des pays non alignés, des  peuples épris de paix et de justice de tous les pays, notamment des personnalités des milieux de  l'éducation, de la science, de la culture et de l'information du monde entier,
27.2 De cette tribune, et selon les derniers voeux du président Hô Chi Minh, qu'il me soit permis  d'adresser au nom du peuple vietnamien à tous ceux qui de près ou de loin nous ont encouragés et  soutenus durant les années de dures épreuves, notamment dans les domaines scientifique et cultu-  rel, l'expression de notre profonde gratitude.
27.3 Fermement attachés aux valeurs humaines que nous avons âprement défendues au prix d'im-  menses sacrifices, nous tenons par cette même occasion à affirmer notre volonté d'apporter à  l'Unesco notre coopération active pour la défense de ces valeurs, d'apprendre des autres peuples  dans les domaines relevant de la compétence de l'Unesco en vue de reconstruire notre pays dévasté  par l'agression étrangère et d'édifier une société prospère digne de notre peuple, d'enrichir notre  patrimoine culturel et enfin d'apporter notre expérience à l'oeuvre commune de promotion d'un hu-  manisme authentique.
27.4 En examinant les projets présentés à cette dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale,  nous voudrions féliciter le Directeur général d'avoir élaboré un plan à moyen terme sur la base  d'un ensemble d'objectifs déterminés à la lumière des problèmes mondiaux dans les domaines de  compétence de l'Unesco, et sur lesquels il a de nouveau insisté dans son rapport oral, d'une grande  tenue, devant la Conférence générale, En effet, il serait vain d'assigner aux peuples des buts éle-  vés dans ces domaines en faisant abstraction des problèmes concrets auxquels ils sont confrontés  et des obstacles surgis sur la voie de leur solution,
27.5 L'expérience du peuple vietnamien, ainsi que celle du peuple lao et du peuple du Kampuchea,  apporte une démonstration éclatante en ce qui concerne l'un des problèmes mondiaux brûlants, ce-  lui des droits nationaux des peuples. En nous privant de ces droits, le colonialisme puis le néocolo-  nialisme n'ont pas seulement rayé momentanément le Viêt-nam de la carte du monde, divisé artifi-  ciellement notre pays, condamné nos compatriotes à la misère et à la famine ; ils ont aussi arrêté  le développement culturel d'un peuple doté d'une civilisation millénaire et de belles traditions cultu-  relles, et condamné des dizaines de millions de personnes à l'analphabétisme. Après la proclama-  tion de l'indépendance du Viêt-nam, en 1945, c'est justement à cause de sa fermeté de principe en  ce qui concerne le respect de ses droits nationaux que le peuple vietnamien a été l'objet d'une  agression brutale qui visait à lui dénier ces droits et son identité culturelle.
27.6 L'atteinte aux droits nationaux des peuples se fait par toutes les armes, y compris celles re-  levant des domaines de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture. Au Viêt-nam comme au Laos et  au Kampuchea, l'agression étrangère s'est acharnée non seulement à détruire écoles, maisons de  culture et monuments historiques, mais également à introduire dans notre pays une soi-disant "cul-  ture!" à caractère néo-colonial qui est la négation même des valeurs nationales, à falsifier l'histoire  de nos peuples, à détruire nos meilleures traditions, à inculquer un mode de vie incompatible avec  notre société, dégradant pour la personnalité nationale et humaine, qui favorise l'asservissement  culturel, la poursuite de la "consommation'' à tout prix, la recherche effrénée du plaisir etdulucre.  Cette forme d'invasion et de domination subtile et perfide marque profondément la population denos  villes, surtout notre jeunesse citadine, et constitue un des problèmes les plus aigus auquel nos sérr  vices de culture et d'éducation ont à faire face actuellement après la libération totaledenotre pays.
27.7 Par conséquent, il est parfaitement justifié pour l'Unesco de souligner, dans sa résolution
18 C/11.1, que "le colonialisme, le néocolonialisme, l'impérialisme, le racisme... constituent  une menace permanente pour la paix et la sécurité des nations'' et exercent une influence nuisible  sur les cultures nationales", Tout en appuyant pleinement l'action de l'Unesco contre la répression  fasciste au Chili, contre le racisme en Afrique australe et en faveur des droits nationaux du peuple  de Palestine, nous estimons que, dans les conditions actuelles, il est urgent pour notre Organisa-  tion d'intensifier et de diversifier cette action, d'alerter l'opinion mondiale contre les graves ue  lations des droits de l'homme, comme dans le cas des persécutions sanglantes perpétrées par le  régime fasciste en Corée du Sud et, comme l'a déclaré la résolution 18 C/11. 1.2, de "prendre ut  part plus active à la lutte contre toutes les formes et manifestations de fascisme et de néocolonia=
446      lisme et toutes les autres formes d'oppression et de tyrannie, de racisme et d'  leur origine de l'impérialisme’. Les cultures traditionnelles des  combat pour leur émancipation nationale et sociale,  apartheid qui tirent  peuples sortiront rajeunies de ce
27.8 Un autre problème mondial brûlant, qui a fait d'ailleurs Li  l'Unesco, est celui de l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économi  lyse faite par le Directeur général des inégalités du monde actuel, qui "ont pris une dimension sans  précédent du fait même de la croissance économique, ainsi que les efforts qu'il a déployés en vue  de dégager les grandes lignes d'une contribution efficace de l'Unesco à l'instauration de ce nouvel  ordre mondial, en exécution de la résolution 18 C/12. 1 de notre Organisation.  objet de la résolution 18 C/12. 1 de  que mondial, Nous apprécions l'ana-
27,9 À cette fin, nous pensons qu'il est nécessaire pour l'Unesco de s'inspirer dans son action des  principes énoncés dans la déclaration économique de la cinquième conférence au sommet des pays  non alignés à Colombo, qui a assigné pour tâche première aux pays non alignés et aux autres pays  en voie de développement de ""briser la résistance de ceux qui s'opposent à la lutte pour le nouvel  ordre international'', et qui a préconisé notamment la Souveraineté permanente et entière des na-  tions sur leurs ressources naturelles et humaines et sur leurs activités économiques, la volonté in-  dividuelle et collective des pays en voie de développement d'édifier une économie nouvelle parleurs  propres efforts, la coopération économique entre ces pays, la diversification de leurs relations  économiques avec les pays capitalistes développés et les pays socialistes selon les principes du  respect de la souveraineté nationale, de l'égalité et du bénéfice mutuel,
27.10 L'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique mondial ne se fait pas seulement sur le plan  des relations entre Etats, mais également et surtout par le développement endogène des pays dé-  munis et en retard sur le plan économique, Les débats qui ont eu lieu sur ce sujet à Colombo ont  mis l'accent sur la nécessité d'une prise de conscience de la population de ces pays qui, mobilisée  par des réformes sociales adéquates et libérée de l'ignorance par une campagne d'alphabétisation  et d'éducation des adultes, consacrera en toute connaissance de cause le maximum de ses efforts à  l'intensification de la production, à l'amélioration du rendement, tout en limitant volontairement  ses besoins en fonction des moyens du pays. C'est dans cet esprit que le peuple vietnamien a mené  et mène actuellement une triple révolution pour se libérer du grand retard économique hérité du  passé colonial et de la guerre d'agression étrangère : révolution dans les rapports de production,  révolution culturelle, révolution scientifique et technique, qui,clé de voûte de l'ensemble, permet  un développement rapide de notre économie nationale,
27.11 Ce qui précède démontre, comme l'a déclaré la résolution 18 C/12. 1, que l'instauration  d'un nouvel ordre économique mondial dépend non seulement de facteurs politiques et économiques,  mais aussi de facteurs socioculturels, Dans le cadre du paragraphe 6 (a) (i) de cette résolution por-  tant sur "l'étude des problèmes, la promotion de la réflexion et la diffusion générale des connais-  sances et des idées concernant la conception d'un nouvel ordre économique international'', nous  estimons qu'en dehors des principes déjà indiqués sur le plan des relations entre Etats, il nous est  indispensable d'inclure des principes concernant les lignes de conduite générales à suivre dans le  développement interne des pays à économie retardataire, Il importe en effet aux pays démunis non  seulement de limiter l'emprise des économies plus puissantes, mais également d'encourager le  processus endogène du développement, tant économique que socioculturel,
27.12 Un autre problème mondial que je voudrais aborder et qui présente une importance primor-  diale pour les pays économiquement défavorisés concerne leur avenir culturel : étant donné la fai-  blesse de leurs moyens et la disparité croissante entre ces pays et les pays développés, existe-t-il  pour eux une possibilité de préserver leur culture, d'élever le niveau de leurs peuples en matière  d'éducation, de science, de culture et d'information ? L'expérience de plus d'un pays, notamment  celle du Viêt-nam, nous permet de répondre à cette question par l'affirmative. Nos pays en voiede  développement héritent pour la plupart de civilisations millénaires et brillantes, et nos peuples,  forts de leur identité culturelle, se sont montrés capables de défendre et de développer cette iden-  tité même dans les conditions les plus difficiles, comme celles, particulièrement dures, qu'a con-  nues le Viêt-nam face à l'agression étrangère.
27.13 Dans le nord de notre pays, malgré une situation de guerre presque ininterrompue, nous  avons dès 1958 liquidé totalement 1'analphabétisme. Une personne sur trois va actuellement à  l'école ou fréquente des cours pour adultes, Dans le sud du Viêt-nam nouvellement libéré, en l'es-  pace d'une année, près d'un million de personnes sont sorties de l'analphabétisme, qui sera liquidé  pour l'essentiel vers septembre 1977. Les activités culturelles se poursuivent, mieux, se déve-  loppent en s'adaptant aux conditions de la guerre, Le cinéma se fait ambulant, les troupes théâ-  trales se divisent en petits groupes qui pénètrent dans les usines, les coopératives agricoles, les  unités de l'armée et de la milice populaire, Mieux encore, on assiste à une véritable floraison de  petites troupes artistiques d'amateurs, de créations artistiques et litiéraives à caractère profon-  dément populaire. Selon une description imagée populaire de chez nous, le chant a couvert le fra-  cas des bombes'' qui sont tombées par dizaines de millions de tonnes sur nos têtes. Notre enseigne-  ment primaire, secondaire et supérieur ne s'est jamais ralenti. Les bâtiments scolaires étant dé-  truits, nos écoles se sont dispersées dans la campagne, dans la jungle, s'enfoncant sous terre ou à  fleur de terre et donnant des cours même la nuit à la lueur de lampes à pétrole bien semilées  Notre enseignement supérieur sur place, épaulé par l'envoi croissant de jeunes étudiants à l'étran-  Ger, surtout dans les pays socialistes, a doté notre pays d'un personnel scientifique = en  assez nombreux (160. 000 personnes de niveau universitaire, dont 3. 000 de niveau postuniver »
447   ce qui nous a permis de faire face dans le passé à la guerre moderne menée par les agresseurs  ainsi qu'aux lourdes tâches actuelles de la reconstruction et de l'édification économique et cultu-  relle, Dans le combat pour notre indépendance et notre liberté, la culture nationale s'est révélée  une grande force, qui ne cesse de s'enrichir de nouveaux apports des masses populaires qu'elle a  contribué à mobiliser.
27,14 Nous sommes certains que d'autres peuples, dans d'autres conditions difficiles, et quel que  soit leur état de développement, sauront trouver la voie appropriée pour la défense et l'enrichisse.  ment de leur patrimoine culturel.
27. 15 Cependant, il n'est nullement dans notre intention de prôner une politique des portes closes  surtout en matière culturelle. L'humanité est une ; la culture humaine est une et diverse, Chaque  culture nationale, tout en gardant et développant son originalité, peut et doit mettre à profit les  réalisations culturelles des autres peuples. C'est dans cet esprit que nous entendons contribuer à  l'oeuvre de l'Unesco et nous acquitter des tâches d'après-guerre dans les domaines de l'éducation  des sciences, de la culture et de l'information. Ces tâches sont très lourdes, étant données les  destructions immenses causées aux édifices publics relevant de ces domaines et les graves congé-  quences de la soi-disant "culture néocoloniale qui s'est implantée dans une partie de notre pays  durant des dizaines d'années.
27. 16 Dans la seule partie nord de notre pays, plus de 3. 000 écoles primaires et secondaires, 30  écoles supérieures et secondaires spécialisées, 12 musées, 420 temples et pagodes, 475 églises  ont été entièrement détruits par les bombes. Au sud, les dégâts ne sont pas moins importants, Pour  ne citer qu'un exemple, le palais impérial de Hué et les tombes impériales sont gravement endom-  magés, saccagés, causant un préjudice inestimable à ces monuments de renommée mondiale,
27. 17 Dans les domaines de compétence de l'Unesco, les tâches les plus urgentes dans la partie  sud de notre pays consistent surtout à résoudre les séquelles de la domination néocoloniale : 4 mil-  lions d'analphabètes, un demi-million de prostituées, 150. 000 drogués dont un grand nombre âgés  de moins de 16 ans, un enseignement obscurantiste qui fait l'éloge des agresseurs et des traîtres,  une culture dépravée, dépravante et antinationale... Dans ces domaines, nous préconisons non pas  un "coup de balai" mais une campagne patiente de rééducation, d'élévation de la conscience poli-  tique des différentes couches de la population. C'est dans cet esprit, et en comptant en premier  lieu sur nos propres efforts, qu'au Viét-nam nous avons pu enregistrer des succès appréciables  qui auraient pu être multipliés si nous avions pu disposer de davantage de moyens matériels et  techniques,
27.18 De cette tribune, je voudrais lancer un appel pressant au monde enseignant, scientifique et  culturel représenté au sein de cette Organisation pour une aide urgente au peuple vietnamien envue  de la reconstruction de ses écoles et universités, de l'équipement de ses laboratoires et instituts  scientifiques, de la restauration de ses musées et monuments historiques, de la fourniture de ma-  tériel enseignant et de papier pour nos écoles, nos classes du soir et d'alphabétisation, Dans le  cadre de cette campagne de solidarité internationale déjà déclenchée en faveur de notre pays, à la-  quelle ont déjà participé plusieurs institutions spécialisées des Nations Unies dont l'Unesco, il est  impensable que les Etats-Unis puissent continuer de se dérober à leurs obligations découlant de  l'Accord de Paris et plus simplement de la conscience humaine en ce qui concerne leur contribution  au pansement des blessures de guerre et à la reconstruction d'après-guerre au Viêt-nam,
27.19 A plus long terme, et dans le cadre de l'Unesco, nous souhaitons une coopération multiforme  avec tous les pays dans les domaines scientifique, technique et culturel en vue d'accélérer notre  édification nationale et de rattraper le retard qui nous est imposé par une situation de guerre  prolongée.
27.20 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs, dans son  Projet de plan à moyen terme, le Directeur général a eu raison de souligner l'unité et la diversité  du monde contemporain, Cette unité s'est accrue avec le développement scientifique et technique  qui rapproche les pays et les hommes et qui fait que les grands problèmes nationaux nous concernent  tous, globalement. Les inégalités actuelles qu'a mentionnées le Directeur général désavantagentnon  seulement les pays démunis mais menacent également les pays développés dans leur avenir si elles  ne font pas l'objet d'une solution juste. Cette unité n'exclut pas la diversité née du développement  endogène de chaque nation qui, par son identité culturelle, apporte une contribution variée au pa-  trimoine commun de l'humanité. En éliminant cet obstacle majeur que constituent les inégalités ae-  tuelles dans le développement, il est possible de renforcer l'unité dans la diversité et de procéder  à un enrichissement réciproque des cultures, bénéfique pour chaque pays et pour l'ensemble de  l'humanité.
27.21 Il appartient à une organisation à vocation universelle telle que la nôtre d'oeuvrer dans ce  sens, d'axer ses activités dans les domaines de sa compétence sur la solution des problèmes aux  quels sont confrontés les pays en voie de développement, sur la réduction des inégalités existantes,  sur l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre mondial et cela non seulement dans le domaine économique  mais aussi dans les domaines social et culturel, base indispensable pour la réalisation des buts ES  l'Unesco, qui sont le maintien de la paix et de la sécurité et le respect universel des libertés fon  damentales de l'homme et des droits nationaux des peuples. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
28. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam. I now give the floor  to Mr. Kobale Kale, head of the delegation of Papua New Guinea.
29.1 Mr. KOBALE KALE (Papua New Guinea) (Speech delivered in Pid  Mr. President, Mr. Director-General and distinguished delegates:  to the General Conference that I am addressing this Conference in a language other than one of the  official languages of Unesco Conferences. I am speaking to you in Pidgin, one of the languages of  Papua New Guinea. I am honoured to represent the newly independent State of Papua New Guinea  and am proud to make my country's small contribution to the general policy debate of the nineteenth  session of the General Conference in one of the major languages of Papua New Guinea.  gin, English text supplied):  My apologies to you and
29.2 Mr. President, may I firstly, while I have the floor, take the opportunity of expressing my  delegation's and my own personal congratulations on your election, by unanimous acclamation on  Wednesday, as President of the nineteenth session of the General Conference of Unesco. It has  been noted that your contributions to education and social development both in your country and as  regards the functions and objectives of. Unesco are many and significant. The unanimous approval  by the Conference of your election to the Presidency reflected trust in your ability, competency  and experience to lead and preside over this Conference. I feel quite certain that through your  capable leadership the General Conference will achieve its goals successfully. Mr. President, I  also would like to express appreciation of the good work of the outgoing President,  H.E. Mrs. Magda Jôborû.
29.3 During the past few days, kind words of welcome to Papua New Guinea on its assuming full  membership of Unesco have been expressed by speakers, including the Director-General, Mr. M'Bow,  and the new President, Mr. Toweett. My delegation wishes to thank you for this encouragement  especially as Papua New Guinea has been a full member of this Organization for a few days only.  Mr. President, and distinguished delegates, at the last session of the General Conference of this  Organization in November 1974, Papua New Guinea had the honour to be accepted as an Associate  Member. We achieved our independence on 16 September 1975, and soon afterwards we had the  honour to be accepted as a member country of the United Nations. On 21 September 1976 our rep-  resentative signed the Unesco Constitution. We are honoured now to take our place in this General  Conference as a full member, for the first time.
29.4 It was a pleasure for the Government and people of Papua New Guinea to welcome H. E. the  Director-General of Unesco, Mr. M'Bow, to Papua New Guinea last year. Although his official  visit was short, we endeavoured to ensure that he saw as much as possible. His interest and  cheerfulness encouraged many people, he helped us to set up a science council, he took special  interest in our culture and art, and won many friends by walking into one of our many remote  villages and talking with the village people. Even before becoming a member, PapuaNew Guinea  received important help from this Organization for several years, particularly in regard to edu-  cation and broadcasting. We therefore have already felt the benefits of Unesco, and we believe  that full membership will bring us more benefits. My Government has faith in this Organization.  We have studied the Constitution of Unesco and during his visit to Papua New Guinea the Director-  General himself explained to us in detail the purpose of Unesco and the way it works.
29.5 In his recent speech to the United Nations General Assembly the Papua New Guinea Minister  for Foreign Affairs and Trade, Sir Maori Kiki, explained the "universalist" basis of my country's  foreign policy. We are establishing friendly relations with all governments, regardless of ideology  or economic systems, apart from countries which have adopted racialist policies abhorrent to us.  My Government is fully aware of the political injustice and oppression which many nations and  groups in this world are suffering. We have publicly condemned apartheid and supported the right  to self-determination of all peoples in acéordance with the Charter of the United Nations. We be-  lieve that human rights must be strongly affirmed and injustice must be eradicated by strong ac-  tion. We also believe that the proper forum for political discussion is the General Assembly of  the United Nations, and that the necessary actic.. can and should be taken through the normal diplo-  matic co-operation of sovereign States. This year we have all seen this kind of action being taken  to resolve outstanding international problems, and Papua New Guinea is following all such develop-  ments closely.
29. 6 Although, Mr. President, we sympathize with those who are suffering, and, as I have said,  We support them in their struggle to obtain the human rights which are spelled out inthe Charter  of the United Nations, we are anxious that the proper channels be used to seek justice for them.  We are concerned that member nations may seek to use Unesco, or this General Conference, as  an instrument for international political or ideological action. We believe that such activities will  backfire against them, and we shall all suffer as well. My Government's faith in Unesco rests on  its Constitution. Its purpose is humanitarian, not political. Under its Constitution, the work of  Unesco is to help to supply such basic human needs as literacy and education, the proper use of  science, the protection and development of culture, and the better use of gommunicasion in these  three spheres. Mr. President, the world's poor urgently need these services from Unesco.  Unesco must lead in the fight against the bondage ofilliteracy, and the fight against the unserupu-  lous ravaging of the environment. Unesco must ever more strongly work for the right ofeach people  to keep its own identity. Many unique cultures are now gravely threatened by indifference, greed,  and the importation of inappropriate technology and social forms.
29.7 Mr. President, Unesco has already worked long and hard for these things and my Govern.  ment believes that Unesco must be supported in this work in the future. Mankind is in desperate  need of the humanitarian services that Unesco exists to give. By "mankind" I mean the ordinary  village people and town dwellers that I know so well in my own country, and which other delegates  in this Conference know in their own countries. I would therefore ask the distinguished delegates  here: would it not be better for all of us to agree to keep Unesco free to serve all our countriesin  the specific ways described in its Constitution? If we use Unesco to make political points, or to  resolve political problems, shall we not all suffer? What I am suggesting is that any politica] Vic.  tories we may achieve through Unesco will in fact cost us a lot. The cost will be paid by the poor  by the illiterate, by the slum dwellers, because Unesco's power to help these people will be greatly  reduced.
29.8 Mr. President, I have said enough on this. To sum up, my Government believes that politi.  cal injustice must be corrected, but that Unesco is not the place for such action. We hope that  Unesco will be preserved and strengthened to continue to carry out its proper work. My Govern.  ment knows that the human problems which Unesco exists to relieve are growing worse. We ex.  perience them at home in Papua New Guinea, and we are fully aware of the huge problems faced  in other societies and nations. We believe the world's social problems will get even worse if the  effectiveness of Unesco is impaired. The world's poor need Unesco as never before.
29.9 In conclusion I would like to draw attention to one or two interesting developments in my  country related to Unesco's four main areas of work. We are grateful for the help we have re-  ceived, and shall receive, from Unesco. But Unesco is also a means of sharing insights and ex-  periences. First, in education: Although we are a small and new country, we have certaindevel-  opments and ideas that, through Unesco, might benefit others. Unesco itself has helped us toform  new and more relevant syllabuses for our primary and secondary schools in science and mathe-  matics. Second, in culture: By our own efforts we have over the past ten years developed our  culture, our art and drama, so that our identity is not only being preserved but actively developed.  The efforts of our people to understand their traditional past and their modern present are being  made on behalf of the younger generation. The designs and art works are expressing the people's  inner feelings. Drama groups are touring the villages and market places. The ordinary people  are welcoming these developments which are helping them in their struggle to find their identity.  Third, in science: Our universities provide opportunities to study unique aspects of science and  of society.
29.10 Before concluding, I should like to draw attention to the language in which I am speaking,  because fourthly, communication is one of the major fields of Unesco's work. This is a new  language, still being formed. It has not even been given a definite name yet, althoughit is some-  times called Papua New Guinea "Pidgin", or ''Neo-Melanesian''. Like so many of the world's  languages, this language is being formed due to a period of great upheaval and suffering, cultural  clashes and national mixing, in much the same way as the English language was formed long ago.  We are aware that many countries have faced, and are facing, major problems of language policy.  It has been calculated that about seven hundred different languages are spoken in my country. My  Government has therefore been very careful to make no rash moves, nor force our people in any  way. However, without any coercion, already the majority of our people have learnt this language  by informal means, and it is the principal language of parliamentary debate and of many other im-  portant functions. Through Unesco, we believe we can benefit from further insights intothese and  other areas, and we think that through Unesco others may be interested to share some of our ex-  periences in these fields. Thank you, Mr. President.
30. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr. Kobale Kale. Fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I now call upon the  last speaker of the day, H. E. Denzenguin Ichtseren, Minister of Education, President of the Mon-  golian National Commission for Unesco, and head of the delegation of Mongolia.
31.1 T-xn HINIOSPSH (Moxronna):  Tocnogux [Ipencemarens, [IO3BOJILTE MHE OT HMeHH neneraunn Monuronsekoï Hapozxoï Pec-  IlY6IUKH HCKPeHHE MOSAPABHTB BAC C H36paHHeM Ha BHICOKHÜ mocT Ilpexcemarens neparHaguaron  ceccun l'enepanbHoñ koudepenunn DHECKO u noxenaTs BaM GONBIIUX yCIeXOB B BbINOJIHEHHH aroù  OTBETCTBEHHOÜ paGOoTsI.
31.2 Pocnoguu IMpexcexarens, ysaxaemse nenerarsi. Hacrosmas ceccus D'eneparsHoï KoHdepeHr  LHH [IPOXOJUT B TO BpeM4, Korza Opraunsauns O6rennnennex Hauni mo Bonpocam 06pasosa”  HU, HayKH H KyNbTYpsl OTMeYaer cBoe 30-1erne. B kaHyH oroÏ sHaMmeHarenbHoÂ mars NPUATHO OT  METHTB, YTO NPOHCXOJAIAA PASPHIKA HAMPAXCHHOCTH B M@XAYHAPONHEX OTHONEHUSX COBJACT BCE  Gosiee GnaronpusaTHsIE YCIOBHA AIX aKTUBH3ALUU NEATENBHOCTH Ha Mei Oprannsaunn, mpuapaHHoï co  ReHCTBOBATL YKPEIUIEHHIO MHpa H GesonacHOCTH MyTeM pacmnpeHna COTpyAHWYEeCTBa HApOAOB B o6-  JaCTH OGpasosanua, HaykH U KynbTyps. Hu y KOTO, 4 Ayman, HE BbISHIBA@T COMHEHHA, TO JOHECKO,  KaK H Juo6ast Apyras MexnyHnaponHas oprannsauma cucteMsl O6renunennex Hanmi, MoxeT ycnelmHo  PasBUBATE CBOD JEATEIBHOCTR TONBKO B YCIOBHAX MEpa. Ilocnennne rons DHECKO Bce 6Gonee ak  THBHO BKTIDYA@TCH B GopsOy sa ykpemienne MHpa n MexnyHapounoï GesonacHocrn, B sauxry NpaB  MéTOBEKA, YCTAHOBICHHA HOBOTO MeXIYHAPOTHOTO SKOHOMHYECKOTO NOpAIKAa H B Gopp6Y MPOTHE  KONOHHATUBMa H pacusma. Dexepansuas koHpepennus IDHECKO yxe npuxsna pj BaXHEX peureHHH  HO 9THM aKTYanBHEM MNpOOIEMAM coBpeMeHHOcTH. Cama OpraHusanus BHecma cBOË BKIAÆ B npoBeA”
450      une CoBemanus MO BOIPOCAM 6e30MNacHOCTH H COTPYAHUYECTRA B Es  pemexHe mecroï PernoHansHoï koude pexun HarHOHA/lIBHEIX KOMHC  crospmeñes B HO5H6pe IPOWJIOTO roja B Heo-Jlenu, rae NposByuan  pernoxa coJeNCTBOBATB YKpe@IVIeHHID MHpa H CTAGNIBHOCTH B Asuu IYTEM pasBHTHS COTPYyAHHYECTBA  yu rue Ged BeiCKasaHbl pekoMeHznanuu OHEC KO oxasmBars NOJJIe DXKY B paMKax CBOE KOMNeTeHINN  [oHCKaM OCHOB JA MHPOKOTO MHOTOCTOPOHHETO COTDYAHHYECTBA a3HATCKUX CTpaH B ex o6ecne-  yexn4 IPOYHOTO MHpa B Asun. B 3TOM OTHOMeHHH OmBIT o6meesponeñckoro cosemanns [pe JCTaBIsIeT  He COMHEHHBIH IpaKTHYeCKHH HHTEepeC H 115 CTpaH A3uu. Cnenyer HanesTbcs  KUSHB peKOMeHJanui oTHX COBEMAHHŸÀ H Koude pennuu 6yneT ynenexo  rpamMe Ha 1977-1978 roneI, Tak H B Cpennecpouxoñ NpOrpaMmMe.  pone. Xouercs nonuepkHyTB  CHH CTpaH Asun u OxeaHnn, co-  IIPHSHIB K MNpABHTE/IBCTBAM CTpaH  , YTO MpeTBOpeHHD B  MOJIXHOE BHUMaHHe Kak B IIpo-
31.3 Mocnogux Ipexcexarenb, MONOXHTENBHO ONEHUBAS yxe CHCNAHHOE, MBI HE MOXEM HOBONBCTBO-  BATBCH HJOCTHIHYTEIM, HAM HEOGXOAUMO HATH BNEpeT is TOTO, YTO6b BO3MOXHOCTH Hamel Op-  ranWsauHH GBIIM HCIMOJbSOBAHE! MONHOCTBO B HENAX O6ECHeueHHs 6/1aTONPUSITHEIX YCHOBHÜÀ Ist pasBH-  Tiss OOpasoBaHKW4, HayKH H KYJIBTYPsI, COINHANBHOTO MPOrpecca YeroBeuecTBA. Oco6eHHO MHOroe npex-  CTONT CHENATB JUIA yKPEIUICHHS MHpa H MexAyHapoxHoï GesonacHocru, npekpaneuns TOHKH BOOpyxe-  HUH, nornomanuex HpiHe exeroyHo 300 munInaproB MOJIIAPOB, KOTOPHIE MOTJIH 6B 6BITH HCHONB3OBA-  Hp! Ha penreHne MHOTHX COIMAIIBHO-SKOHOMHYECKHX MPOGIEM, CTOAIUX Nepen YenoBeuecrBoMm. Hama  mererauta HONHOCTBIO pASIeTHeTr H NONNEPXHBACT MHEHKE O TOM, uTo IOHECKO B CHIy CBOETO ons-  Ta H 3aCHYXeHHOTO MEXAYHAapOLHOT'O aBTOPUTETA MOXET H JOJXHA CONEËCTBOBATE cosyanno 6naro-  NpHATHOTO OGIIECTBEHHOTO MHEHHA JUIA NPeKpalle Husi POHKH BOOPYXEHHH, COKpaleHHsT HaKOMIeHHBIX  samacoB OpPYXHS, CHCTEMATHYECKOTO CHHXEHHA BOCHHkIX pacxonoB. B sroïñ CBA3U xorenoce GE orme-  THTB, YTO HOBBIE NpEIOXEHHA, BhbIABHHYThIE CoBeTckuM Consom Ha XXXI ceccun TexepanbHoñ Ac-  camG6ren OOH, BITC HOBBIM Ba’KHBIM HMIMYNBCOM IA aAKTHBHSANNH yCHTHÀ TOCyJapcTB B 061aCTH
31.4 HyxHo ckasaTb, TO B HACTOSMee BpeMs HApAXy C G1aronpHATHHMH NepeMeHaMH, IMpoHCxoga-  IIHMH B MHpe, UMEIOT MECTO H HeraTHBHhIe SIBIEHHUs. Or0 - TIeDINHÜÀ OUAT BOËH» Ha BruxHeMm  Bocroxe, sro - OparoyOnäcrBeHHbeE CTOIKHOBEHNA B JINBAHE, STO - Tpare us nanecrHHCKOro Hapo-  Ja, oTr0 - MaccoBoe nonpanne npaB uejoBeka B Yuan, Oxuoï Kopee n B MAP. Bee eme He nokonue-  HO C KONOHHA/1H3MOM H pacusMoMm. Bce sro rpe6yer roro, uro65 IMHECKO ycununa CBO mesTen-  HOCTb, HarpaBreHHyD Ha yKkpennenne MHpa. B 9TOH CBA3H MBI CUHTaeM CBOEBDEMEHHHIM MpHHYTHE  NpoeKra pesooIHH MO MYHKTY 72, mpemioxeHHOMYy CoBerckum Consom.
31.5 Monronbekas HapoaHas PecnyOruka B CHIy CAMOH CBOEH COINHANBHON NpHPONE HE YKIOHHO H NO-  CIE OBATENBHO IMPOBONUT MOJIHTUHKy MHpa H IpyxO0s! Mexyy HapogaMH B HHTepecax ynpoyeHns MH-  pa H pasBHTHA Me x1yHapoyHoro coTpyaHuuecrBa. MHP, kak asuarTckas cTpaHa, ILIy60KO sauHrepe-  coBaHa B YKpeIvIeHHH MHpa H 6€30MacHOCTH Ha 9TOM OONHPpHOM KOHTHHEHTe, rue npoxHBaer Gonee  HONOBHHH! YerroBe4uecrBa. Mouronsekas HaponHas Pecny6nuka BriCTynmaeT 3a TO, 4TO6m Asus crana  KOHTHH€HTOM MHpa H COTPYJHHYECTBA HA OCHOBE YKPEIVI€HHA HOBEPpHA, B3AHMONOHNMAHHA H AHTHHM-  NepHarnerhYyecKoÏ CONHNApHOCTH HAPpOIOB Hallero KOHTHHEHTA.
31.6 XVII cresy MHPII, cocrosamnñces B HOHE TOTO TOJA, MONBEN UTOTH MATOH NATHIETKH pasBH-  THI HAPOIHOTO XO3AHCTBA H KYJBTYPEI H ONpenenHT HOBHIE 3aJaUH, KOTOPRIE MO3BOJISAT MOHT OMB =  CKOMY Hapoqy CHeraTB HOBEIM mar BNepez. 3a Herekmee MATWIeTHe manbHeñmee pasBHTHe MON YUHTH  o0pasoBanne, Hayka H KyJIbTypa B Hameñ crpane. Pacmupunach CeTB 06meo6pa3oBaTenbHbIX MKOJ,
3aBepmaeTCs nepexom KO BCeobmeMy BOCLRMHIETHEMY OOpasoBaHHDo 114 BCEX AETeH MKOJbHOTO BO3-  pacra. B HacTosimee BpeMs y Hac Kaxniblil UeTBE PTH YEIOBEK YUUTCA B KAKOM-HHOYZAB ydeGHOM sa-  BeJIeHHH.
31.7 3aMerHse ycmexu cxerana un Hama Beicmas mKona. Hapaay C Hay4HBIMH yupe x1eHHAMH Axane-  MHH Hayk MHP, coszaH ess pau OTpacieBbX HHCTHTYTOB MNPH MHHHCTEPCTBAX H BEZOMCTBAX,  KOTOpHE BENYT MPHKIAIHHE HCCIENOBAHHA, HEMOCPEACTBEHHO CBA3AHHBIC C MPOMBIMIEHHBIM H CEJB-  CKOXO3AÜCTBEHHHIM MpOH3BOICTBOM. HccHenoBaHH4 Hamux yueHsIX BCe 6ojee MUPOKO BHEADAD TCS B  COOTBETCTBYIO  HE OTpaC1H HaponHoro xossñersa H KyBTypsI. PacxoneL Ha Hay4HYIO pa6ory yBennun-  JHCb Ha 95 mpor.
31.9 B o6nactu 06pasoBaHn4 rIaBHOË LE€JbI0 POT PaMMBbl Ha Gyaymee DOJKHO GBITH yCHIeHHEe GopbO»I  sa jeMoKparnsaunio 06pasosauns H CONEHCTBUE pacuxpeHHD 0GMeHa NepeOoB5IM ONBITOM B OGNA-  CTH OOpasoBaHns H BOCMUTAHUS. Baxnoe MECTO B MNpOrpaMMe JONXHE 3aHATH BOMNPOCEI BOCHUTAHUA  MONOJEXH H B3POCABIX B Qyxe MHpa HU APYXObl Mex1y HapoxaMH Ha OCHOBE pemexni BoceMmHaguaToh  ceccun l'exepanbnoñ kon®epenunu. Ho HECOMHEHHO, YUTO OXHO U3 UEHTPANBHEIX MECT B nporpaMmme  MONXHE 3aHSITH BOMPOCH CONEPXAHHA 06pas3oBaHus. Mcxons U3 TOro, UTO B YCIOBHAX HayYHO-TeXHU=  MeCKOÏ peBONIONNH BaxHOE sHaYeHne NPHOGPETAT BONPOCE MOCTOSHHOTO COBE PMCHCTBOBAHNA IKOJIB =  HOTO H BriCmero O6pasOBaHH#, MOBHIEHHS MNPODECCHOHAIIBHOTO H KYJBTYPpHOTO YpoBHA B3pocIOro Ha-  CeIeHHA, B mporpaMme He06xO1HMO NpexycMOTpeTB MEporpHATHA MO MHPOKOMY 06MEHY ONBITOM H JO~  CTHXeHUAMU B OGNACTH COSJAHNA, YKpEIUIEHUs H pasBHTHA HaIHOHAJIBHEIX guess 06pasoBaHH4 H NOZ-  TOTOBKH KazZpoB, a Takxe-nu®opMalneñ O INpoBOJHMEIX pedbopmax, 0 Hopeñmux opmax H Meronax À  IUIAHHPOBAHH# B HHTepecax CONNAIBHO-9KOHOMHYECKOTO nporpecca H BCECTOPOHHETO pasBHTHA YEJIO  BOYECKOÏ IMUHOCTH, O HanGOnee aKryarbHeIX Hay9HO-M@ HATOrHYECKHX HCCTCTOBAHUAX .
31.11 Uro kacaerca counarbHeX, DYMAHNTAPHEIX HayK H KYJBTYPH, TO HX POIL pesKo BO3pacraer  Kak B O6meñ cucTeMe HayK, Tak H B pasBHTHH OGmeCcTBa, H MH! MNONIEPXHBACM MHEHHE O Heo6xo-  IHMOCTH pacIIMpeHHs HCCIENOBAHHÜÉ B OGTACTH COLHAJBHEIX HAYK. Bce Gonee mupoxne nonurnuecre  oKOHOMHYeCKHE, HAYYHO-TEXHHYECKHe H KYNBTYPHHE CBA3H MEXAY TOCYXAPCTBAMH, pacrymee Coan  HHe 06BEeKTHBHON HEO6XOAMMOCTH JaIBHEÂMETOpasBHTHA YKPEIUIEH!S OTHX CBA3€H, H3HICKAHHE BCex  BO3MOxHOCTeÏ yKpemeHnx MexIyHapoxHoro MHpa, 6€30MacHOCTH H COTPYAHWYECTBA BHABHrANT Tepex  CONHaIIBHEIMH HAYKAMH YpesBhUaÂHO BAXHHIE MPOOIEME, peneHHe KOTOPHX HMEEeT OTPOMHOE 3Hauehye  IX PA3BUTUS MexJyHapogHoro cooGmecrsa Ha MyT4X MHPA.
31.12 Hayuenne n pacnpoCTpaHeHHe KyIbTyp, COXpaHeHHe KYJIBTYPHOTO HACIETHA NONXHEH NpeOÂIA-  JaTh B MpOrpaMMe KymbTÿps. IIpH TOM CHENOBANO 651 BCerJa MCXOAUTH H3 YHHBÉPCAanBHOrO xa-  pakrepa DHECKO u B nonxnoï Mepe yAeNnsaTh BHHMAHHE KYyIbTypaM BCEX KOHTHHEHTOB H Hapozos,  npauem IOHECKO nonxHa GhTH MpPeXAe BCETO CTUMYIATOPOM H KaTanM3aTOPOM AEHCTBUH Ha Hanuo-  HaïBHOM ypoBHe, COZEHCTBYs HaNaxHBAHHID MEXAYHAPONHOTO COTPYAHHYECTBA, KOTOpOE CNOCObCTBO-  pao 6x1 Han6onee 5h GEKTHBHOMY JOCTHXEHHID HaLHOHAlBHEX Here.
31.13 BonpoceI HCMNONbB3OBAHHA CPEACTB Maccopoï nH®opMauuH H OCOGEHHO ee CONEPXAHHSA B CBHSH C  obunueM nuhopmaunn, npuo6peranr Bce Gonbmee MONHTHYECKOE, COIUAIBHOE H SKOHOMHUECKOe  snauenne. B sroñ CBASH XeIaTerBHO, YTOGH IMHECKO yrounnna KOHUENIHMIO CBOEÂ MPOTPaMMEL B S10)  o6nacTH, yTBEPpAUB NPHOPHTET CONEPKAHNS HHPOPMANAH HA CPENCTBAMH HHDOPMALUHH H COCPeTOTOuRt  YCHIUS Ha HGYYXCHHH BO3MOXHOCTEH MNpHMCHEHNA MACCOBEIX CPelCTB HHPOPMALHH H KOMMYHUKALHL B  pemexnn Takux npobneM, Kak ykpenrenne Mex1yHapoxHoro MHpa, GesomacHOCTH H COTPYAHHYECTBA,  OKOHUaTe/NbHAS TNKBHIAUNS KONOHHANHSMA, pacusMa, amaprenza, CONeËCTBHE COIHAIBHOMY H 9KOHO-  MHyecKOMy nporpeccy HapoxoB, pasBHTHO MexIyHapoIHbIX SKOHOMHYECKHX OTHONMEHHÀ Ha MNpHHINNAX  paBHONpaBH4 H CIIpaBeIIMBOCTH.
31.15 oxymexnr 19 C/4 B menoM 3aciayXHBaeT MOIOXHTEIBHOÏ OIJEHKH H MBI IPU3HAEM ero 6y1ymyn  pOJb H BaXHOCTH, HO BMECTE C TEM MEI CYUHTA@M, YTO OH He JOJIXEH HOCHTb O0H3ATENBHOTO Xa-  pakrepa. Ero Hasnauenne — KOHCY/IbTaTUBHOE, OpHeHTHpyDINee Ha Ie pPCIEeKTHUBY.
31.16 Mocnoum: Ipencexarers, Kak H npexge, corpyaHuuecTBo Mexay MHP n I0HECKO npoxonxaer  pasBHBaTbC4. Hamu yuensle, mexTern HCKYCCTB, paGOTHHKH H CNeIHarrHCTEI HapOAHOTO 06pa3osa~  HHS NpHHHMADT JEATENBHOC YUACTHE B Me pONpHATHAX, opraHusyemsix IMHECKO. Axanemus Hayk MHP  aKTHBHO yJaCTBYeT B IIPOEKTE H3yYeHNA IINHBHNH3ALUHH Haporos Ileurparbnoñ Asuu. B cexrsôpe sToro  roga B ropoge Ynan-Barop npu yuacrun IOHECKO ycnemno nposexeH rpernñ MexyyHapogHsi KOH=  Trpecc MOHTOJIOBENOB. B JanbHeñnmeMm Mbl HAM@peHs pacmHpHTe Hale ydyacTHe B 9TOM Npoekre. IIpexy-  CMaTpUBae TCs COTPYIHUYECTBO B OGHACTH pasBHTHA HaÿŸHOË HHPOpMaIHH H COXpaHeHH4 KyJIBTYpHOTO  Hacreus B MoHronuu. B Hameñ cTpaHe MHUPOKO ormeuancs MexmyHapouHsä xeHcKHÀ AeHb, 30-1eTne  OKOHYAHHSA BTOPpOÏ MHPOBOÏ BOÜHEI.
31.17 TMocnoyun Ipexcenarenb, B sakKnoueHHe 4 XOTEJ 6b SaBEPHTL BAC B TOM, YTO MpaBHTEJBCTBO  MHP u B ganpHe#imeM Gyxer akruBHO cOTpyaHuuaTs C IOHECKO u Gyner BHOCHTB CBOË MOCHIBHEH  BKJaJ B BHINOJHEHHE MporpaMMs Opranusanuy BO HMS Nporpecca, MHpa H COTpyAHHYECTBa MEXZAY Ha  poyamH. Brarogapo Bac 3a BHHMaHHe.
(81.1) M. ICHTSEREN (Mongolie), - (Traduit du russe, )  Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi au nom de la délégation de la République populaire mongole de  vous adresser mes sincères félicitations à l'occasion de votre élection aux hautes fonctions de Président de  la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco et de vous souhaiter plein succès dans l'ac-  complissement de cette importante tâche,  nce générale (31.2) Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, la présente session de la Confére  il est agréable coincide avec le trentième anniversaire de l'Unesco. A la veille de cette date mémorable,  de constater que la détente actuelle dans les relations internationales crée des conditions de plus en je  favorables à l'activité de notre Organisation, qui est appelée à contribuer au renforcement de la paix et de  la sécurité en intensifiant la coopération des peuples dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science et de  la culture, Personne ne doute, je pense, que l'Unesco, comme toute autre organisation internationale du  système des Nations Unies, ne peut développer avec succès ses activités que dans un climat de paix. pe  quelques années, l'Unesco participe de plus en plus activement à la lutte pour le renforcement de la paix Ë  de la sécurité internationale, à la défense des droits de l'homme, à l'établissement d'un nouvel ordre ee: co  nomique international et au combat contre le colonialisme et le racisme, La Conférence générale ; »  à déjà adopté une série de décisions importantes sur ces problèmes urgents de notre temps. LOrgemees  elle-même a apporté sa contribution au déroulement de la Conférence sur la sécurité et la coopération ;  Europe, Je voudrais aussi souligner l'importance de la décision de la sixième Conférence régionale s i  commissions nationales des pays d'Asie et d'Océanie, qui a eu lieu en novembre dernier à New Delhi a  a lancé un appel aux gouvernements des pays de cette région pour qu'ils contribuent, par leur ser  au renforcement de la paix et à la stabilisation en Asie et qui a recommandé à l'Unesco d'appuyer, Seale  domaines de sa compétence, les recherches menées en vue d'instaurer une large coopération miltile
452      entre ces pays afin d'établir une paix durable en Asie, A cet égard, 1!  présente indiscutablement un grand intérêt pratique pour les pays d'  oeuvre des recommandations de ces réunions et de cette Conférence  le programme pour 1977-1978 ainsi que dans le Plan a moyen terme,  expérience de la Conférence européenne  Asie. Il faut espérer que la mise en  recevra l'attention qu'elle mérite dans
(31.3) Monsieur le Président, tout en rendant justice à ce  nous en contenter; il nous faut aller de l'avant et faire e  soient pleinement exploitées afin que soient créées des con  tion, de la science et de la culture et au progrès social de l'humanité, Il reste encore beaucoup à faire, en  particulier dans le domaine du renforcement de la paix et de la sécurité internationale et de l'arrêt d'une  course aux armements qui engloutit actuellement 300 milliards de dollars par an, alors que ces milliards  pourraient être utilisés pour le règlement de nombreux problèmes sociaux et économiques qui se posent à l'humanité, Notre délégation partage pleinement et appuie l'opinion selon laquelle l'Unesco, grâce à son ex- périence et à l'autorité qu'elle a acquise au cours des années, peut et doit contribuer à la création d'une  opinion publique favorable à l'arrêt de la course aux armements, à la réduction des réserves d'  cumulées et à la diminution systématique des dépenses militaires. A cet égard, nous tenons à s  les nouvelles propositions faites par l'Union soviétique à la trente et unième session de l'Asse  rale des Nations Unies donnent une nouvelle et forte impulsion au renforcement des efforts des  à freiner la course aux armements,  qui a été fait, nous ne pouvons cependant pas  n sorte que les possibilités de notre Organisation  ditions favorables au développement de l'éduca-  armes ac-  ouligner que  mblée géné-  Etats tendant
(31.4) Malheureusement, à l'heure actuelle, à côté de l'évolution favorable qui a lieu dans le monde, nous  constatons aussi des phénomènes négatifs. Il s'agit de la guerre qui couve au Proche-Orient, des confron-  tations fratricides au Liban, de la tragédie du peuple palestinien, des violations massives des droits de  l'homme au Chili, en Corée du Sud et dans la République sud-africaine. Il n'a pas encore été mis fin auco-  lonialisme et au racisme, Tout cela exige que l'Unesco intensifie ses activités en faveur du renforcement  de la paix, Aussi considérons-nous qu'il serait opportun d'adopter le projet de résolution sur le point 72  proposé par l'Union soviétique,
(31.5) La République populaire mongole, en raison même de son caractère social, mène constamment et  systématiquement une politique de paix et d'amitié entre les peuples dans l'intérêt du renforcement de la  paix et du développement de la coopération internationale, Etant un pays asiatique, elle est profondément  intéressée au renforcement de la paix et de la sécurité sur ce vaste continent où vivent plus de la moitié  des habitants du monde, La République populaire mongole s'emploie à faire en sorte que l'Asie devienne un  continent de paix et de coopération, grâce au renforcement de la confiance et de la compréhension mutuelles  et à la solidarité anti-impérialiste des peuples asiatiques.
(31.6) Le dix-septième congrès du Parti populaire révolutionnaire mongol, qui s'est tenu en juin dernier,  a fait le bilan du cinquième plan quinquennal de développement de l'économie et de la culture mongoles et a  précisé les nouvelles tâches qui permettront au peuple mongol de faire un nouveau pas en avant. Au cours  de ces cing années, 1'éducation, la science et la culture ont connu dans notre pays un nouvel essor, Le ré-  seau d'établissements d'enseignement général a été élargi, La généralisation a tous les enfants d'âge sco-  laire de l'enseignement de huit ans est en cours. Chez nous, à l'heure actuelle, une personne sur quatre  poursuit des études dans quelque établissement d'enseignement.
(31.7) Des progrès sensibles ont également été réalisés dans notre enseignement supérieur. Parallèlement  aux établissements scientifiques qui relèvent de l'Académie des sciences de la Mongolie, il a été créé toute  une série d'instituts sectoriels relevant de divers ministères et services gouvernementaux et chargés de  mener des recherches appliquées directement liées à la production industrielle et agricole. Les résultats  des recherches faites par nos savants sont de plus en plus largement introduits dans l'économie et la cul-  ture, Au cours de cette période, les dépenses consacrées aux travaux scientifiques se sont accrues de 95%,
(31.8) Monsieur le Président, en ce qui concerne le programme futur de l'Unesco, je serai bref, car cette  question sera examinée en détail au sein des commissions,
(31.9) Dans le domaine de l'éducation, l'objectif principal du programme doit être la démocratisation ac-  crue de l'enseignement et l'intensification des échanges d'expériences éducatives, Une place {mp itante J  doit être faite dans le programme à l'éducation de la jeunesse et des adultes dans un esprit de paix etd'ami-  tié entre les peuples, conformément aux décisions de la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale.  Mais il est hors de doute que l'un des éléments centraux du programme doit être le contenu de l'enseigne-  ment, Etant donné que dans le contexte de la révolution scientifique et technique actuelle, l'amélioration  constante des enseignements scolaire et supérieur ainsi que l'élévation du niveau culturel et professionnel  des adultes présentent une très grande importance, il est indispensable de prévoir dans le programme des  mesures débouchant sur de vastes échanges d'expériences en matière de création, de développement et  d'amélioration des systèmes nationaux d'enseignement et de formation, ainsi que sur des échanges de ren-  seignements quant aux réformes de l'enseignement, aux formes et méthodes les plus récentes de pese  tion utilisées en vue du progrès social et économique et de l'épanouissement harmonieux de la personnali  humaine, et aux recherches scientifiques et pédagogiques les plus intéressantes.
(31.10) Dans le secteur des sciences, le programme répond dans l'ensemble aux besoins du développement  de la science et du progrès de l'humanité. A notre avis, il convient d'appuyer particulièrement le programme  relatif à l'exploitation de l'énergie solaire et celui qui concerne la formation des ingénieurs etdestechniciens,
(31.11) En ce qui concerne les sciences sociales, les sciences humaines et la culture, leur sn ss  rapidement aussi bien dans le cadre général des sciences qu'au service du progrès de P   partageons l'opinion selon laquelle il est indispensable d'intensifier les études et les rec se scienti-  domaine des sciences sociales, L'élargissement constant des relations paques. ue ee objec-  fiques, techniques et culturelles entre les Etats, la prise de conscience grandissante de Ia 8 Co de Ee tive de la poursuite et du renforcement de ces relations, la recherche de tous les ses les des pro- solider la paix, la sécurité et la coopération dans le monde, tout cela pose aux sciences Ps foret nai  blèmes d'une extrême importance qu'il est indispensable de résoudre pour que la commu  puisse progresser sur la voie de la paix.
(81.12) L'étude et la diffusion des cultures et la sauvegarde du patrimoine re js ee  au centre du programme relatif à la culture, Cela étant, il faut toujours garder présent à l'esp
9   tère universel de l'Unesco et accorder l'attention qu'elles méritent aux cultures de tous les continents et  : l'Unesco, quant à elle, doit avant tout jouer un rôle de stimulation en catalysant ect, de  on tous les peuples ; A > :  menée à l'échelon national et en contribuant à mettre sur pied une coopération internationale Propre aide  T  efficacement les pays à atteindre leurs objectifs nationaux,
(31.13) Les problèmes posés par l'emploi des moyens de grande information et surtout par le contenu à  nnent, en raison du volume même de celle-ci, une importance politique, sociale et 2  nomique de plus en plus grande, À cet égard, il est souhaitable que l'Unesco précise la conception de son  programme en donnant au contenu de l'information la priorité sur les moyens d'information, et en concen-  trant ses efforts sur l'étude des possibilités d'utiliser les moyens de communication de masse pour le ra  glement de problèmes tels que le renforcement de la paix, de la sécurité et de la coopération internatio.…  nales, l'élimination définitive du colonialisme, du racisme et de l'apartheid, la contribution au Progrès so-  cial et économique des peuples, et le développement de relations économiques internationales fondées sur  l'égalité et l'équité.  l'information, pre
(31. 14) Pour ce qui est du budget de l'Organisation, nous sommes d'avis que l'Unesco dispose de réserves  appréciables qui devraient lui permettre de réduire et de stabiliser le montant des crédits budgétaires dont  elle a besoin tout en augmentant l'efficacité de son action,
(31.15) Le document 19 C/4, dans l'ensemble, représente un effort méritoire et nous en reconnaissons le  rôle et l'importance pour l'avenir ; mais nous estimons d'autre part qu'il ne doit pas présenter de caractère  obligatoire : ce doit être essentiellement un document d'ordre consultatif, qui serve d'orientation pour  l'avenir.
(31.16) Monsieur le Président, la coopération entre la Mongolie et l'Unesco continue à se développer, Nos  scientifiques, nos artistes et nos éducateurs prennent une part active aux activités de l'Organisation, L'Aca-  démie des sciences de la République populaire mongole participe activement au projet relatif à l'étude des  civilisations des peuples de l'Asie centrale. En septembre dernier s'est déroulé avec succès à Oulan-Bator,  avec le concours de l'Unesco, le troisième Congrès international des spécialistes des études mongoles, À  l'avenir, nous avons l'intention d'accroftre notre participation à ce projet. Nous prévoyons également d'ap-  porter notre concours dans le domaine du développement de l'information scientifique et dans celui de la  préservation du patrimoine culturel de la Mongolie. Notre pays a célébré avec ampleur la Journée interna-  tionale de la femme, ainsi que le trentième anniversaire de la fin de la Deuxième Guerre mondiale,
(31.17) Monsieur le Président, en conclusion, je tiens à vous assurer que le Gouvernement de la Répu-  blique populaire mongole continuera à coopérer activement avec l'Unesco et contribuera dans toute la me-  sure de ses moyens à l'exécution du programme de l'Organisation dans l'intérêt du progrès, de la paix et  de la collaboration entre les peuples.
32.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Mongolia
32.2 I declare the meeting closed.  The meeting rose at 1.15 p. m.  La séance est levéeal3 h15  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 13.15  Bacenanne sakpsiBaercs B 13.15  BRON IP à de Buse EN | I PCIE [PEP PUL EA BA LB BA PS ROL