Twelfth plenary meeting
2 November 1976 at 10.20 a.m.  President: Mr. TOWEETT (Kenya)  then: Mr. PENAI VER (Venezuela)  Douzième séance plénière
2 novembre 1976 à 10 h. 20  Président : M. TOWEETT (Kenya)  puis : M. PENALVER (Venezuela)  Duodécima sesiôn plenaria
1. The PRESIDENT:  Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I omitted last night to express my thanks to  H.E. Mr. Humblet, Minister for National Education (French) and head of the delegation of Belgium.  I do so now, and call on our first speaker for today, H.E. Mr. Dafaala El Haj Yousif, Minister of  Education and head of the delegation of Sudan, to.address us.  (bias I) opal dpa) Chg lod] alll Gs end! — yy  Capea lB old $ us Il acu)  plese fs 5, aa CALE asgosuall pee lip 0 oom! 5 Jaw J eu oll sn Qu ds  ssl Ola es 05 INR ETN LA Pt PE J OWN) (5j PP PRON JO bla | lsd dyygepo= dg  + Way Lal gly 1d at Fy Sa, Ll LY prod lee Fis) GH BUSI Gos 6]  EC PEEVE | SU BIEL AT FOUN | agp ds pol asbl Sn lil se — vy  Sc cl-S URINE UP ite vas)!  pd edd Las, pln YL S Las] fod, n ) Small Sule isl oF J) ans ist Ea,  ses il GL) peas oF gay TUS © ABUS Gla 5 pla) tolls Go pnd Gil! Las 9 i»  + oloadly Giga) pd Lanne par Sl S flash us Ilo lo ut)  z x £3 £  dag ¢ jasball 154) ls Losin! 1d 15a Les azsallesodL pyc =! ol Are de — Y,Y  iY 5, 91 PIES RCO Jl 13e ds 1» «J clo be! JSSaz, a Ja sil SI ns 5 :  pl Beaty AS June holon) Bhs 0 CBI) (ad) Jy ly Lid in] pan. A A  BAIE es Cp pedalling SLas YY Jy) apis) my aly US Fel plat RE  Py WI RMS psp) Bdiie aud) ms Lge Gi 1m + leo V1 Less, a: at lh  COL LI gen Lund] py (ee Li tn rind Jou! a nth, Lo  ously LoS disall alle LAB o pod) cour onlaall Gps Gulas pls 35 ES, LÉ] 56 08 JeaJL
5 LES Baal) GE aJl AJ. ped) Gu on  ELLS gag put)!  € = = 7 - asi  cage ll Jy od) Ste] ce eS od! Eble 1 ol dg) Age ply Sr ve Yot  Clsle, BT TAN sino Ll guts on ST JE Ide) edb Lio pain) ét J) cons  ly
12 (Spans dame jpn pull Le 355 ay ds la de 6 parla) exp ais Leu 2 hate crées ore ét pant lg J à cme ale BI) apd) mpd) Sly ellis eon) Ue dl pin ÿ Le jlebmn epi Com sl)  dine! J ve liadly Gal sam pes ld) dell dy dl Ge pol) Jad epi caging lay  Sibyl) 3 amg) pe 351, le pais ade Ls us laian ly A, 0 Las | Gb aus cm 3 A5 Types pe) pss NL gy  EN Al UO DOW | bt ON LU | 6 do cle PA | PO SX | 595 BJ las y UZ IP Or FCPS | Br IP able, ull, dal,  + plored peg jill a ly bland! px cp Bulemy ould! Li SN Bnd SILI Il Jy uf Les  . p20 doy  bene) Boyles Jiu Bodh 5 ELA ag puis ANS 0s Solana Vg A 0 Las ¥) dasa) ad ol  Bo AN ASE, Loewe Iladl Wie Je 5 pheDy à Lund) a 5,01 SBS YY ial JY JM
6 85 da NVI5NEII Load (op Aérais 635 lly Gusgtpal Ls Sued alo barbs 389 oud) au Vi yy "LY,  ola (al Jyase ells pes odly «ads ally duals Ve Laduiadly 5, dalle Basal) Js al pe poll Lal  er 5 1856 EL I, opin) lung 509 6 Jad) aged) Vin BL bas win ly sulla ! dail) pone dass,  a lad) JE Lup I) JS, Bla) jig 6 edad) Sod buf ua is play a Landy Gnd) Lgmg de 5 all  + Lowel Lbhs joli  vos eld, Has isl! plas Bas! IMs Gaïs 3e LIN, (ada! DasGslin aid ius)! su
8 msbis E  dass ways OCS dre (Dl eg! 150 Sa oo Bl 0 us jae 65 la il)  Lblo)l Rss (gion Bull (oles Slane Iolo las ly Gop ull Bnd VB (ig 188 y Gal, ll pn  € 5} OW] FICE WR PEN FEI PRICE pei CPR TN EAR SE ICE Vly à, 5 WE Li WEST UPR SCT YO] GEL Es,  Ip SI) 5 tar US peSylg oid Lx DUT lo EVN Gras 1 ra 808 mg juin Jl 5  GA 551 pl CIE Sal Jyo oy les pobadlodn 5 daba)l lisboa suid) ole VIS 5  à nosed VE) ces © VAN 5e 58 gScusg Ne sully ST pall Lis usd \çssnulsy Lis  cll. 59-05 Bolin de Luituels opadl Sn Jinn! ul uily 5, rally 355.000 Jy ol) SR sul OU  Ol Js laise use ans Les Bliss lp Al atm ll A Ja prés pihailSn ue 5 Lis, Bes LL Ven  » DL Joadly Gall le pai, dal le ole, (5 olyaal! la ely Lolo! 150 65 26  Bagdgally wally pues GAN plat) rad allthis asl oF plats NS awd GIE Vie oy — yy  Babul 508) Gus) pe ladl 55 agsglaagdd dy sid) ued) Vie ais Lagos Lil dy ! 001 Y),  » BElgaIly clymall 5 tog  I 0000 3 SCN | PCA LA) edge ado A 5 y TON IX POR | OR S01 OS ES _ yN  e—Llly Glan YI else danye Lpnelys Badia Glam Y lasse Voom bast lle Sisal bls  sl lily LEA Sop) halle Lal ells co ST is Ling 9 LL25 pod) ln, is Lea  + had! plat gl  égal BL M Bu Go AS lg NA de FAST KdV lo, oo I ihe, Li ells es — 10  Bill ole À ape pti pus I pla da) ug nag) A5 8 As) gan) nal  ellie des 5 dell oF pladl adie] sil | Suid el, Bay pias gio Jalal GJ 2368, pall  tal) pled) JE ul eds, a5 0 go La) a Ld) ise By Gi I la) Ls) 5 pro uid)  plat es$ il Leto ll Liman Gp epatianly ¢ édit dma] Lg «ts oe) BI 115 Giz lal  Bed LT Ge ded cil iad) pad] Vin sas + oly ll patina ly pli] pes oe  elçsheosl Br 0-1 BOONE WY | PES CVE PROC URN IC lp ol legs DICT | a, 05 TIER II. 10 LP  ed BOT er SMe) ae oe pla) flo 15 5 4 iS 55  ens Ieablu lo 505 nally 5S) de biio ay lua) ain  cid gle lad dls; plea Vlyelbudly Jy oll pos Gigli pyail oF cmt! 5 le of goss — 18  pled Jluy US alate pie old) SE ony lad) ayy de lop Get] lo dl 350s AL  dS 8 Sm LS 2835 geminal 5) Jy all poy gad py at ls + Ginees 7519 9 Lads hes A!  SI ec Go lpm lls 3 ama) NY G8 lpaly lad) pn lilly 5h ad) po Late Lay Jolly GaJl Old  +8 Slated) Jl Ye La aie wm Lal Cg and) des Voge Lens odin i La Ve me ost dis gl)!  sade dp led ail), my Bond Vin ts Vor UF iy + SOU poy te died a 0)  J al 51 Vel Le, cali, Yoel à se L w=! pled NIE A oally 5h V1 CS Lo oy tele  oe debi) 3 pu elo SI) od! Gl sy lu al ai 5 Yl yond) Jy ally edd) Sad) Jp ge  WG Gud ld) add) old) Jal 551 2 atte, f10T jee of on Lay PLE  oi) Babi) Jt pacity 5s Lad S, Lei Sy. JN) 540 Ji oe Beli) Jee Gl GB SUD  ppl! a oa Lay + dl Jun Gal aol PL ly Blas Y1 is (5b ai Llp) Beil 450 Spe  el ala ur! 5 HV Susot | âne VS. Le CO os | hs Sass ay él ps J) as a  a pl ce ealéall SE Se pladly WAI Gn mI) Slow (5 opel | ug, al) Joali ile Lalli Jolly Gall Bol oY tay © Bid) bles Less Sal Jp JS 5 SES Bell ele YA  . asl! on pally 0     = Yoo     I
2 = FA stile re pass olde Jy au pbs SA) Blips I) Gla x)  lp 4 Budi]! “do Si) ail leslil as eolusl, pois aigu) Babine lly ebay ds  Leb Jab wile 850, Suse égale duakadly ul 50) 2lasd) US ppatall pal 0801 Pepsi TER  Lol pyyhedl Lys) paye (5 Aa ani alias YI IS SUcäslsail, EL pe ale pue pd Vo  fy yyy Lessons Gl 1 AAT — VAVY pled) Ja V1 age Baal) lal LM tidy Lilo cs 55  eo Yona Bly shall, hed das los 1 Sas sls e Las II Je), Laz) oe debi wilds L ob  plaid lad), LY oy dti ah le Yow 5 wos oh pls ay ria pp a ant  Sa! SAIS cpl IL ely) Mi gy alu! #Las¥) Jy all Was) 51e wom yo suai)  gril 9y > lo Jd sus od ld) LL LE SIAL Bape Lut 1 iaally (Lal aa  + Las) yall ellos by gels pas  ppl) ai Lay lad) jo ddl tell Bebo AT Vogal) gpm iy 5 Joma ol gel ST G5  olny lily Lysel dal epee oll 6/0199 0/70) CSI] olas) eddy gal 3 Lad) 35 0 La)  col Y) Gob 55s Mapp eddy le Stall AL Lad) à Ball, pes 5 Je V3 hugte shal Gland 1 yyy  Jil jill Lg fynsy 6 pal aly Old wus ST ada ld pam ll ew SIN oY  Lis due lly Jul ol RSS) deco (lilly © pnt) lad ile Lad) itt) 0 Jy a pubilly  em DIN as lu0g 3 1pad 85 Sag A5 lad) as) SUN D ls plo Te AP ON [PPC SPR | rly or Voy  | 05h Sally dal big (Basil) poe 95 oll ol Gb aSTally ALI 55 51 1 gd) pill eS mg  » dl Jpop l) da il ally Glue 1 ells doy als Lily, abs JG lanl ac plu Yas  Gi 0 Ep AV 3, a Jus pls oe plod) tony Wad) sola YI pal) Suse IN suas ol vy  td oll lad) ola I pdd] oY ely Si amid) Me V8) pay Lee pois ill lo pr pn  » Eds op BI) Lan 1 Jb cos ae lg SN ees Sp Islas Kin lg ignite Jini) UES 75 Le  y I ln La) 13e ol «edi Jha) dp aaa ols ep 1a) 1am ey go ppd! lad) 5 Les  oe 0e Lg £10 on 2S apd de 85 5 Opens Bas pale Yoo Ge ST IL spall pall
0 Ge V day + Bey MUN Bahl Lead) gp Va Vg D eV Ales pe phon medal 1 és (iy SAN Sg  Jay dy Ille wl los lus + aye plo aus gpde V1 > 15885 1970 plo SAS puke vo  eel Jad) 5 a wig Gudbladl vas ily oll Jord Badin; ui oY pde A + vale 5 sol)  = Bethe Clu inn yty Bae LIV Jy ol (JI lis ais Lap lo Sill Las lle Gs pe yo «  APIS IPE SA ROW | 56 Grau WCHL INT IE CORTE SEEN RICE SIERO Le  eme Lies Gl Yl ela Loa Vans clas] Jaw 55 Cup] as Vie Jan ges] S de — 5) 1  alla Shi oe ly Ye LE ily Ada AV Ban LEE Sofie SCO LH 5  NE 4, ICH UR | I FOU PCY | 5505 Ge de Np Es UF: SOU | UO PL RESON PYRO SCR WH AE ROE SP  PCT [ORT WAIN |b A Se LL 0  I pl 505 Is ll an V1 ells Hod) Slow 5 Blunt ws Lily Il Gann — VOIS  te—_adls Bell 5 499 99 pe) Ales jrj 259 hope Sas Ge (ul IN Julally eo leglanld 55 lil  Jl Yl ela, oy ily dw Lo Ye Lad) 545050 eo lobed) ads oe ells adhe, Joy Bnet; Bite pas line 21099  Fas) ball pa, po soles! pl slay | slot a L LES ded JE Lg) Jui plussu! le prdalls  cell 5505 easly is dus 59 del ls  dma hug 35 ly à aly el pay de 55 SIN By Ty Jone 90 lin GB les] Guns — 510  : Jwind) ge ® pte ed) 55 LE] 5e MVC Lha dl ds Lie ob  LS Ls BVT ind BI Wyle yf 3 all Jl Be yt itn LS 5!  bid) nas 5) pili Le $s all ede FBI leg tadl Joga 55 Sig AL a lal) ns L  Oe Lup cal Ve cally pit) iy AN Beall ently FLEDU (dp all LISE EAN ips 0 Lau  by nls oF sip) log + cs ipl) slog Suds om SLs YI) Jp tl) pfs pee gly) gpd) 5 Low  Oe Gols of Lelno à cially Bad) Jl) ly + US oe Ls allah pss oly Jnl! 13 5 Il  be 153,96 5a) ee wall Min ge dy cc Ylndl oda J) Ldlsel go pS) 4295 Oy Doge Le  Chola asa) olan prélude boy tall Sind) Le puis Gill OM BRI oY one  se ly Bula ¥) I Lesage gs, oly aug] esse Gopi) faba by Lialazin] let! dee — VI
3 dl 5 la V1 8S, Lia) yas WT I Le js ol dss ‘0 /p) 4 dil! ma re)  la qe Js of aiid) vols Liber ie 5d Gig) aol! (pt) jp Lilia! 5 LS cpl io Lay  SAY pl ob a headl Tay oly Baad) Jp ally asl pa él BLY Je ss Val ce Luge  ee LI Jp all Glad lo Li YU, (35 Y Bena) paladin) ad Laos lo clog ol — oy  Ane YN CS LB ads | oles VATS Lai 13 at + Lolibal WIS lues lo wobec  melo gt, LH Ling » 3,0 BIL dead Jy AU pu B YN Sal psp lé Sy Lens Lag ly Silly pall  coll Ll, dass ple Yeu! dlls Lopas céslse YY ppladl Jl (f= Lans)!  lan Lion dyad BIL ST Llal ys 0 Bedi) pool iil) dle Foi SE Gen — NOV  > a ts La, Lush, cay) data 6 & Js Al pe LUE A à) [FLOR REA Lal dso Lis
12   cade BEI Ge LUS Al a ESS dla Sl 5 Sally SEN ep  Clow loeb lias al) lag) épars diy py SU (8) Slee 5) gas OF myles 5  antl Bly 5) gms ol + Belually po Lpdl ggg à JAN ibaa BRAIN pay de 7151 ley Sp all aa  | po loils Suis] a, pois sd) pl sl lea le Shy Sy 0 ls JE pata, sl dll ul lia 4  md Bal) lily guess SSI LIL Las als Gil LL lls ST ty  | Les ug ¢ Je II Lausg aol od S51 ols pladl aad eal) ses | 015 1e pod al, 3, alley,  a Sys dl iV dH Gee Bi 16 Sling to : ë cline ets il rials alias, apd LS 5  PRCT el eweisly (HD CON FEAL el Jy al 3959) 4852) la Gavi] 3! Ol eps) & dow, el Cowl = ire  Fly Lino pope poid] 0 Las Slug) om IV ce dis dsp Js Al 430 cess 25) L nat
(2.1) Mr. EL HAJ YUSIF (Sudan) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin, I wish to express, on behalf of the Arab Group,  which I am honoured to represent, and of the Democratic Republic of the Sudan, our deepest condolences  to our brothers, the members of the delegation of Indonesia, to express to them our profound sorrow at  the catastrophe caused by the earthquake which has just struck their country, and to wish them and their  country peace and tranquility.
(2.2) Mr. President, I extend to you my greetings on behalf of the delegation of the Democratic Republic  of the Sudan, and also our congratulations on your unanimous election to the presidency of this session.  Considering your positive participation in the activities of the Organization, your election, Mr. President,  is a fortunate event. I wish also to congratulate the Vice-Presidents and the officers of the Conference  on their election, wishing them all every success in their tasks.
(2.3) Mr. President, I wish to greet Kenya, on behalf of my country, to thank her for hosting this Con-  ference and commend her for the great efforts being exerted to make it a success. The holding of this  Conference on this good African soil is significant both for Africa and for the countries of the Third World.  It is a positive step towards establishing and deepening international understanding and towards furthering  the participation of the Third World in it. It has also given Member States the opportunity to get to know  this great continent at close quarters and acquaint themselves with its great civilization and culture, which  is in line with Unesco's endeavours to stress the historical links and the harmony that exist among different  cultures, as a means to achieve its great aim of maintaining peace and security and endeavouring, through  education, science and culture, to establish co-operation among nations. To Kenya, and its leader, Presi-  dent Jomo Kenyatta, we extend our thanks and gratitude.
(2.4) Mr. President, I am honoured to speak on behalf of the Democratic Republic of the Sudan, whichwas  among the first developing countries to join Unesco, when it gained its independence more than twenty years  ago. This nation won the admiration and support of the whole world when it was able, thanks to the aware-  ness of the people and their political maturity, as well as the courage and wisdom of its leader, President  Ja'afar Mohammed al Numeiry, to put an end to a war that had lasted for seventeen years in the south, thus  establishing full national unity between the south and the north of Sudan. By doing so, our country has given  an example to many a developing country suffering disunity after independence. It is undertaking today a  unique experiment in which a comprehensive economic and social transformation is being based upon national  unity, freedom, democracy and social justice within the framework of the unity of the active forces of the  nation. This political philosophy is, no doubt, inevitable for the countries of the Third World in order to  establish political stability and to protect and maintain the rights of the people and provide them with the  opportunity to participate in the progress of their countries. This economic and social development is  aimed at transforming the life of our country through optimum utilization of its natural resources, witha  view to attaining self-sufficiency and safeguarding the welfare of our people and participating in solving’  the problems of the world, particularly those relating to food and clothing. This is being undertaken on the  basis of scientific planning with objectivity and accuracy, and through the realization of the people's creative  capacities and in co-operation with sister and friendly nations as well as regional and international organi-  zations. In these efforts, my country is relying on the human being and making him the focus of develop-  ment. His happiness and welfare is the ultimate aim of this noble endeavour and he, himself, is the instri-  ment of change. Development, in the broad sense, the promotion of education, the development of research  institutes and the spreading of culture by all available means, have been among the priorities of our plans  and programmes.
(2.5) Mr. President, the number of students in our country has increased by half during the past fiveyears:  thus constituting one-tenth of the population. We are not, however, satisfied with this quantitative expan-  sion. Parallel to this, efforts have been made to nationalize, modernize and develop curricula and sou  methods as well as the structure and terms of reference of educational institutions, and the objectives &  aims of education in order to associate it closely with the Sudanese environment and with overall pe  and social development and enable it meet the growing needs of Sudanese society in a world that is changing
510      and undergoing a technological revolution with the profoundest effects on the life style of the peopl d thei  behaviour. In all this we have been guided by Unesco's principles and its great il se fi las  and by the experiences of the countries of the Third World, irrespective of their systems and phil se je s  We have received technical and material help in many fields from both Unesco and other S RE ies.  cies of the United Nations as well as from sister and friendly nations, and we have made Ee oy i  assistance. We therefore feel we are part of this world and an effective member of rte society oe =  act to whatever happens in it and try to make a positive impact on it b Sy ; ; participating, in  creating a better world based on right, justice and peace. = Gin our humble way, in
(2.6) Consequently, Mr. President, I wish to praise the speech of the Director-General which can be de-  scribed as truthful, objective and informative. Iam sure we all appreciate the effort he and his aides have  made during the past two years to enable this Organization carry out its tasks despite the difficulties and  obstacles facing it.
(2.7) The eighteenth session of the General Conference constituted an important landmark in the history of  this Organization, in view of its great resolutions in all the fields of activity of Unesco, which gave a new  dimension to its objectives and programmes, and relate such objectives and programmes closely with the  world today, its issues and problems. Those resolutions reiterated the adherence of Unesco to its consti-  tution and its response to international public opinion.
(2.8) One such resolution was that on the protection of cultural property in Jerusalem and another was that  on access by the populations of the occupied Arab territories to national education and culture. Another  worthy move was the invitation to the Director-General to withhold assistance from Israel in the fields of  education, science and culture until it scrupulously respects the resolutions of Unesco. The Director-  General has established that Israel had defied the resolutions of the Conference and continued to violate  the Constitution of Unesco and its principles. Israel has refused to allow the Director-General to enforce  the resolutions of the eighteenth session of the General Conference and the resolutions of the Executive  Board and pursued her policy which was condemned by the General Conference, thus defying world opinion  and the international community. After this disgraceful behaviour by Israel, the Conference hadno choice  but to reiterate its condemnation and penalize her more severely by denying her the right to attend any of  the meetings of the Organization or to participate in any of its activities until she enforced to the letter the  resolutions of the General Conference. This is an issue of ethics and conscience dictated by international  solidarity. It is also inevitable for the protection of Unesco and for upholding its influence and prestige.
(2.9) Allow me, Mr. President, to dwell upon the attitudes of certain countries, organizations and indi-  viduals who have been waging a sinister campaign against the Organization and its Director-General since  the eighteenth session of the General Conference, using media under the control of Zionist circles. I would  also like to dwell upon the attitude of certain Member States which have withheld payment of their contribu-  tions, thus turning their backs upon the principles of right and justice and to the concepts of international  solidarity and understanding as well as on the instruments of the United Nations, which, Mr. President,  represent the greatest achievements of mankind and the essence of its experiences following the devastating  wars and the sacrifices of succeeding generations. This is a really regrettably shameful attitude. I am  sure we all condemn this attitude and reiterate our appeal to these States to fulfil their obligations and re-  frain from their blackmailing and threats. Public opinion no longer accepts these methods. I wish here  to praise the countries of the Third World, the Arab States and the African States which contributed gener-  ously, thus avoiding stoppage of the activities of the Organization and enabling it to continue its role. I  share with the Director-General his feeling of regret and sorrow for what has happened and his concern  about the future of the Organization as a result of these attitudes; but I also share his optimism and faith  in the future of the Organization. This Organization has made great contributions to the progress of hu-  manity and to establishing right, justice and peace, and is now tackling the greatestof issues facing humanity  and threatening its future. Unesco will therefore remain, because it is meeting one of the urgent needs of  humanity, the need for considered and programmed action in the field of education, culture and science in  order to reinforce solidarity among the nations of the world. Unesco will remain because the programmes  of development and culture in every country of the world are linked with the activities of the Organization.  It will remain because the will to right, justice and peace will remain.
(2.10) Mr. President, it is a great honour for the countries of the Third World to hold this great inter-  national meeting in a developing country to discuss the first Unesco Draft Programme and Budget ever to  be prepared by one of its citizens, who was unanimously elected Director-General of this Organization at  the last General Conference. The fact that this Draft Programme and Budget was prepared in a practical  and objective manner has given it a new character unprecedented by any draft programme and budget ever  prepared. This is because all the proposed activities of the Organization in the Draft Programme before  us have been prepared in accordance with the general framework of the Medium-Term Plan 1977-1982,  which was prepared, in turn, following consultations with Member States, thus reflecting the prevailing  trends therein as well as their aspirations regarding the fields of specialization of the Organization and  the positive support for establishing a new world order, in the fields of activity of the Organization and  within the general framework of a new economic order. The participation of Member States in the prepara-  tion of the Draft Programme in the excellent manner initiated by the Director-General, as seen in the multi-  purpose questionnaires distributed to them, proves a keen interest on the part of the Organization to meet  the needs of Member States. Iwish toput onrecord the appreciation of the delegation of the Democratic Re-  public of the Sudan to the Director-General and his aides for the exhaustive efforts exerted in the prepara-  tion of documents 19 G/5 and 19 C/4 which we are now meeting to discuss and adopt.
(2.11) The objectives of the Medium-Term Plan are characterized by a comprehensive view of inter-  national problems, the most important being the promotion of human rights, because the violation = ET  rights poses a threat to world peace and security and exposes people to humiliation, defeat and iniwery and  prevents the process of comprehensive development of nations. Injustice and misery, Mn. President. 2  à threat to justice and welfare wherever they may be. The approach suggested by the Diventor pe is  a scientific approach dealing with cultural identity, the status of women, help to refugees gs pau ,  liberation movements. The promotion of peace, the emphasis on man as the centre of development, ae  the application of science and technology in the interest of man, are among the objectives of the plan. We  strongly support these objectives as well as the programmes designed to attain them.
12 (2.12) The efforts of Unesco towards establishing a new international economic order and its continui  efforts in search of a better system is a matter of extreme importance. It falls into line with the effo  exerted by certain agencies of the United Nations, because the current economic situation in the world is  unjust and is based on the exploitation and monopolization of the peoples' resources, and the maldistributi  of their wealth, through the old and the new forms of colonialism. The world, particularly the Third Work  is suffering today from the evils of this system which needs a great deal of change and rationalization, ;  There are more than 700 million people living in abject poverty, more than 460 millions suffering from  malnutrition and tens of millions suffering from various diseases with no access to the necessary medica)  care. The number of illiterates in the world in 1960 was 700 million. It had jumped to 760 millions in197  according to ILO statistics. The figure might well be over 800 million by now. According to ILO estimates  the number of unemployed and underemployed in the world is 300 million. Technological choices, the Hg  fer of technology to developing countries and its suitable adaptation with due consideration for economic i  social, cultural and environmental characteristics are among the major tasks that Unesco is expected 5  undertake.  ng  rts
(2.13) Mr. President, in direct connection with this are Unesco's plans in the field of education, in response  to man's needs and the requirements of society for lifelong education within the framework of economic and  social development. It is therefore imperative that educational policies, the development of the administra.  tive structures of education as well as the content, methods and techniques of teaching, be subjected to  rationalization. It is also imperative that higher education be promoted, since it is a dynamic force in  national social development.
(2.14) Mr. President, we support the objectives of the plan in the field of communication, which aim at  the promotion of free and balanced flow and international exchange of information, and at the promotion of  the function and process of communication, and its role in development and in society; we support the set.  ting of higher standards together with the necessary policy rationalization and the promotion of infrastruc.  tures and training in the field of communication and the encouragement of better use of the mass media as  a social aim. The establishment of a new international economic order requires, of necessity, the estab-  lishment of a new international information order to help rationalize it and assist it in attaining its objectives,
(2.15) Mr. President, this is a summary of the views of my country's delegation regarding both the Drait  Programme and Budget and the Medium- Term Plan. There are, however, certain remarks that I should  like to make in some detail. By far the greatest handicap of the developing nations in the field of education  is their lack of financial resources, which hinders their efforts towards attaining the objectives of their  plans. Very often, Unesco's Regular Budget is insufficient to finance the major projects undertaken by  these countries. Thus Unesco is forced to seek other sources of finance such as the World Bank, the Inter-  national Development Agency, regional institutions and other international aid sources, in order to enable  Member States to implement their major educational projects. Unesco has a vital role to play in this re-  spect and has to make the necessary plans to do so. The rich industrialized countries should double their  contributions and channel any surplus funds towards these activities. In this connection it is imperative  that the level of administrative costs incurred by Unesco on projects financed from extra-budgetary sources  should be minimized.
(2.16) Mr. President, our interest in educational policy, planning and administration prompts us to com-  ment favourably on section 1.11 of the 19 C/5. We would like to mention here that we intend to make a  positive contribution to the programme contained in this section. Furthermore, our interest in the roleof  education in integrated rural development prompts us to appeal to the Organization to make a substantial  effort to provide additional funds for the Arab States pilot project started in Iraq in 1976.
(2.17) Projects and allocations for the natural sciences sector are inadequate for meeting the real needs  of the developing countries and are not considered instrumental in their execution. Linked to this is the  low level of funds allocated to science and technology in the regional offices. We are particularly interested  in support for the Regional Office for the Arab States in Cairo. This applies also to allocations for the  social sciences, particularly those fields related to the problems of youth.
(2.18) As regards culture, Mr. President, I hereby request the Organization to attach more importance  to Arab culture, which has preserved the world cultural heritage and transmitted it to many present-day  cultures.
(2.19) In conclusion, I beg to be allowed, Mr. President, to emphasize the interest of the delegation of the  Democratic Republic of the Sudan in the success of this session and in the adoption of the Medium- Term-  Plan as well as the Draft Programme and Budget. I wish also to be allowed, while addressing this inter-  national meeting which is being convened for a most noble, honourable and benevolent purpose, to praise  the role which Unesco is playing and its pioneering efforts to play a more effective role in solving the issues  that are facing mankind by participating in the fields of culture and organization and by implementing effee-  tive programmes in the fields of education, culture and sciences. I wish also to repeat my congratulations  to the Director-General and to assure him of the full support of our delegation for all that he is doing to en-  able him lead the Organization towards the success to which we aspire.
(2.20) I wish also to extend our greetings and congratulations to the delegations of the countries which have  gained their independence and joined this Organization. These countries have struggled and have offered  thousands of martyrs and are now struggling with us to build a better world. I wish to greet the honourable  freedom fighters in the Arab world and in Africa who are defending their right to freedom and independence  and to a better life for their people. I greet those who are combating racial discrimination, and Zionist ag-  gression and refusing the occupation of their lands, the confiscation of their property and their resources:  whole world,  ral and  the obliter-
(2.21) Racial discrimination in South Africa and in Rhodesia, which has been condemned by the  is a disgrace to humanity. We call upon the peoples and countries of the world to offer their mo  material support to those struggling against it, and against Zionist occupation of the Arab land, te  ation of its cultural heritage and the deprivation of the Palestinian people of their legitimate rights to El  dom and their land as well as.the enjoyment of their national culture and the preservation of their sue  property, acts the continuation of which is in complete contradiction to the constitution and resolutions cmt  this Organization. We are therefore called upon to take the stand which is dictated to us by the interna  nature of the Organization and the principles on which it is based.
512      I thank you, Mr. President and thank all the members attending thi i § ;  and Unesco every success. & this meeting and wish this conference 12
3. The PRESIDENT:  I wish to thank the head of the delegation of Sudan. I call upon H. E. Mr. Mahmoud Messadi,  Minister of Cultural Affairs, Chairman of the Tunisian National Commission for Unesco, member  of the Executive Board, and head of the delegation of Tunisia.  ; fen ime are a  ¢ lw ew celal 5 dl ue © EER | I lot) al J  die aient LF epee  Lp Gams 8 Long 2) thy asl ha YoY DT Gr ly ol 55e pôl lets IS Use oy
05e odin, oF GAA uy SY Cal ts ey PESUPOREN FS 3) neal) 3, KU us  tr 1 Ball Jy V5 sles wale 555 Jai 2,  il Sli le usa] sn by pi! RS tw le of lpmal Les  iso, 0553 Sal elas ol 5 ofa Sal sa i) sim, ob (Si du Lia  A A SP EE ot a es IE A Le cpio ALL Fo re  TER FOR BA | EEA CSL us « ool * lal!
3,60 pl a Lu ais) helt Be Lao sal, Bhi) pas O° AA Be & VIS jal) Sels ot  le BC PI TSR BP OV ce dis Sup bal © tes ELE NRA PRU I  I PAPA lr WEE | eu las Lanuls | sp 55 pred) ology ola ullo als ci, (Signe y lise del ai)  … Lat ee 1p  LS pags 6307 pba) ein yg ppianSo Jy pI Lislps) all pass) 3agsad Goll sd = — gt
6 gS JUL pie Glo adele lia V1 lin wad iy,b ue 49759 Ls Sal esl dead! JL  o alec Lely Cand) I ce 25% 251 mail (5dr gay  à vase (à, JL ASS, a cle ddl pil ele Glo pla] pal aud) tial fi 5 dr) Gly gp  ee llc oa LIN Lah FA LIN Lays al ad lad) LLG SS Gdyfoind Ly Gras pate à SL  clad y Sill ae Ul LIS, — de Bly (1p La els ln cig sys le Le BL Le  bli Lans Btls l'An co lS 085 0 Lad) uso égddl Jolla) Ahan TEIN LIT Tr ve El  Vis depres Ltn I ASB LAI ia ig 5, PIS RUPEE I SEN CIR PE |  Te os  we Des Jolie, L 524 . Leyes Ce ot JN ily usa dl Jizos p LY se & soil 6 aw — an  HS Bass 58 GS) ce dj) aise Ver WI ane pals € hd Oe gad) *LBs 4, i  SECA TENT Ju JA, are Le VEN ll PC SW CONTI S Srey Gas  ae oe ob lal all lycra DET Pe hall 5 Le De ésleallélo a sie pL Go  oof ol onl Vint gy «ef Ear RERUN | DY Ne dd | FE VS de LoL 3 2) Gey)  NE PUL LV 095 545 Lola pe UR PED t= ae of so hull eal  Lalas Jail Tred bbb lad Vado 1 Sad) Gn co Lit) pat 45 le oe ETS un sl hk  EI ds sl. 5013 FURST. PU TCANC RE Ly gman) 5, Lie Got) LAIT i Lyn  Ds 5e sale Label lly q oy — ayy Bl JY ikon. badly oe grpialilisis te jb  Be LOL] FUR YC IN | 5 PON | UI UG A U3 FOS Lil OO VI FCO: Sy FE OA SIO I AT  oy doa! Glad! Goll La, 1,55 ilo BN Lull oe BUT poy | hay Alaa oh os Qala à ls  Sm I ioe Gy, oll Bins Vs Jnl HBT apte tpt ab wl 5 Bl piste BY Ali ly — € JV  ERPCR ION 150, ell gos Lie iT] . hall ads i ola 6 dng oy pro ve ess  Site le fF le dalle ANS (LT 55 Jp Lis os full re Bilis. lia, Leah! of SRI 5  Jt (pS Ld dais) ste rally ye Leis Lolly Lette JS «Flam Blu!  Sl spend) ladle, Lis go chésall Bb) 5055 TREAT Sant ih - 45 teens SSII (Jal)  oma in CE LAS ae Les Lilly oy lpald Jus esas Gna à ay der call = Ly Ys ya)  . SE fies dmg]
1,1 SIN ped yall sas 615 50 jis SB — jai IS Lol 505 — o LI ol Je Joli  jte pales ET la eV NST y dus pay DRC | PUES (RICK SR OVER LE Je © ados SSI La]  sl, pial I geld olgsg sll de) old [EP M sos aus lus! BIS Jr oles aula!  . sylasdl  HSM SUN pb ua pS 5 alli, Ys BCE gy LAS Jer gh wis Lio paies Wa) — 0
3 UE pas Bow Ed Sie a Lists Je JF Lusi Tal il wills À pal GI hauls 2,3!  load dibs is € Bis Lo I A EA Ey ord dosdll V1, Us sls 5e CT ce Se as TRY  oid) on ys V1, Sk  Bis Lop ball by allied) oll ue lal Je gpd! ok Su oF Libanais
513   JE edly Wine JY July Sais JUS pL WLS © pall Jot adsl) ous pall oy,  . LJle cr 32 te SLY 5 log  J opm) ily oles Las 1 Diz) Jat bs, O98 ALL coo! là, 60) 6 dn rd] oa  sy —aa)} seals dusys Ju Ys ial ashe IBY (Ep Yl plus 1 50 eos) Land Is mg da Lo) lo),  y— Le pad) JV JS Vas s Yl 5ylgally fo lasall Wall ado @ boa) Jo SA dle os :  PESTLE Vos oi dds pian) pliallpaioal 1 22 5 ast) Luin Lj a yy  J all» plis ps” ses plo Je, LS eo lbed! env YN 5e Lbs Safa jag  Long $5 1 63 AS ll dsl Jun
1 poll 3S ols pdd} ER DECANE ERR Les 5 Plate causé Jun LT 4, — 0  dw ot die dy Sl, 9 Age aa punis dame (Il (put) (supe re doyle a LL ull
31 i ay lad! ls Ope ch 9 ILal sIôM ls J des Spal) Go 55,0 fis leat Bagh |) a  ota Lac obs À oS, ORIEN Gr gti ds sol PLAC RETR PIECES plas cafe  ol uth tsobe 05) Glo Dae Je Ÿ sise GLI oly + 90905 so ASE) woh cas  A5 lo lets psp Ile) fag Bass Nik el se ols! ss BI 6 dos ls gmt oly)  plu 58 Barl (5131 (somal) anys oF ay A) spend) lo Cmgs Spa 5 lus V1 pally gel og  éd lei D, a, 1s ising Basal dsl |
7e 88 IL EL LEN 5 qe pl lo aptly sal pos Gi Pye BV iy de Isl gy,  JLB Jl LS ch al 03d ADI onl! GUANA SLA oli lad) 5S  . Gag? mi days (Bord US Ge eg pone «ue A Jub holy Rin pili)  oi be oT Jie oF Sigel) pad aba) Vi oe lod! Ja As oF VIe IL: Le % 1
0 ori) Bue ols,  Ol ote po’ plaid, Bimal (551, V1 pale le BL YY iy abus oF pS) nly ge wf US  mo pS Li lits Lans Ll lin JBL eis (go Ali Ty 50] Gatti pag Anal Bayon]  hui nt) lad 45 By i) gy Lad) pots Fite LS 1 mst BS BAN ga 013 le Blin  siduppalliclolzcdl Ld iss ob  VIE pyoi up) ll hi ol ol ty py Battered ebdssle OLR EPC scie SE  aaa, Ey os Bols isa La lol cad a) dela) dae! Js Js oa (560,10) LE] 5  «dal gad) 50 Las YI Ua aac)  s\     pese te Pipe es clos pti S— cb dl pbs od eh  oho solas! Un Wb Low $5 ws! L 24: pris oof pe JS JE Sse) sy 0 1_ Gal, Joall fl  « dus  + _ si Jlasly 3! bal 32, S lus by Sos” Lb à lus Yes 7 Jes Laos, — ose dl obigid  ae M ped! Sty (Hal) pb puis gd] 53811350 251 dis Bri) pis plus of Lash  #5 Ja ag oat LB) ce lalate Jf Lalo dnl EUs In sty of EIN EAN ss  oils JA hi LAIT Ke Ge ge pus Lei ce pla le by bal 5 Gayl) log copia SLi  Olly ermal) egeblly EI) $a ue Bla) gpl) ells a Us I) GEL! ain ope BS eid cd  Bali heal IL) 5 bp Lux OL Dauer dll lu j 551 L cmd  ols SLE iy "mail lo Slight pail ld 05 as Jpnls Jp] Bnd gt Jaf gn eal  . fla
31nd, Lil Boyd) Sas 53d (lal ope 530 ppd) Il ssl Lai © 1 + da)  Bie Lag Be Lie 5 tpn 5 Lx |, lly Cogn td) pus los 05 PDU J Lugy = Yas edloball LJleda  Pity GI i yb I sola YI pL) as ad) le pie co Laid) som of dled 55h  SA rat co EL py Cet 9 Lois VV Bal) iis sly A i Bypns pod ol 46  € sui) pis 81) 5  nity yon oF Elim 30 doe aud IS Ge Sins VUS NI oo Lito dc dio pio Ÿ SAIT bel in oy  stds lu!  poe ho goles! Us abl Jal ge dead! lod, ol és vale pis Cup is pall 1d OS  Gis le Jen eu Be idly Spill Ge Led gS, amma lal hk alate * Las) 69,06 She  y— Sey oho sola, Lie, ec ol da oa) Wn fi Les AT 55229 + EL CR p LI! LA  + la Vg, ant Oo Loi iad gyi ily 5 Sao SLi) is plod) SWI  ts Lise: 15485 aod!  Slob Gi lar Gigi) Blow Gb ou ALES loll ig; LY) allen i of = 019  tla lel ciel Yelp ally ola V1 ould) Las VI ony di ls ASS) Gas yin! 305  sl OY Gp Veen cs PI ASS By 5 Yes iiss gai Ge (Sho prayed! Li da 98 Load Hal
514      ol ns OI eS pe ids S 15 , re ;  ste 5 I or RE 65 Bobo Lol La pif LS 3 Lite pad me or  spell Mier Of dear la LB Sed Gn Bally | aie als 6,5 Vip itd) asp abn  ol sad Les! & EE od ols 1 lol SL Whe LU a Md) LAN ce L 3 Yea tell ova  JL  “ CI To  CPE le ope re) B plus Vl as Ÿ bolas), Fr Slag ly Lad) 6  JU pas sy loom ily Loss, 580 anno iy td ad a LS pl JUIL Jon of els  Gt ©) sb» sola ola oY (So wb, Las) Vo, | Jedd) US Jato gts ol edly  gi! oe pdeliae Gy pill Bids nin dean Wb GMa SBE LU le phi co J 131 al)  Les oué gt! BELEN BY lo 3500 de dep Bilal) lad) on Us pue is pny Le Ag 0 LAS II il
140, 615 Vas By Gi badly dal JS Lug) Ibu! pad) ho (SG yas Re) solas) plis LIL as  w € e M Les 931,215  ob gs d5511 oberx dla) 529 JLSNl y us or op liés, Gaz Lis lis coul] dr — £1  pl Ege) & LY) a by! aed ep kel Oe pet olin, La La us diet, ol  glad! Ae Ip Gd payes Biden) 0 piel gllidially © Goal gn pid lnny AS OF on  BR J pol Olipts intl 9 5 5 plat] bpd Gow 35 il ppladl oy + spaiad) xls asad) Jp  silly gai)! ds lle Blan 51 del gyre 3las Le DL, Ls V1 gion 566d) Jus iy Seiad Jus  RC WEN IL WEI PET Se SNS Ne RN Ll hs til)  I aig 5 V5, V1 a da Re sl lie als @ ula As ll 0 5505 of Liles bopeusS, op oI) Smead) AI Yale  due Je oy» JET etal 5 y Lens VI baste L IS alligasad) gee sles JS Ne peste WL  Li dy à oman pond) BIT ST (2s 0 po cite GAIN os #1, of las oni © aN) aa  JUNC] I VAT SASL IPR PIANC I BE rt] PRVORIC]| IN Gps + PN JUROR GISI US pad sg  ll ppégdl 130 5 Laie à 8 UN pled) das) 55 Join 533 prs Ge plead! aad) Se oF alg 6 Jal)  eus
545 sys lilés | POR 4] BPW) I CTA 5 0) BEA IRCA Ge | DOF RPS AE BG PC Ste — CDN A  rs pSaig) | âge le 3 ay SI lps V BH ce 5 FT lize rien JIE Ai Lng amar Ts)  TEEN IFFY | EX | FES DAP IE Lagon day Ly IP | dll URS SPS VO SE I FF SP IR  Sot cm ob Li 6 Sen Y pets Tiny o L822 s Lacy Spe dy hud pds ome > biz. be
1 Jr einsld) GM) elu) IMs 5 Lucado Less lang dc IL dal L151 GAL 01  a 100085 eg USE Bibel ddr  oad STs SL Baye GS UL pan] (lal) Sax (LY aïe ÿ halls dl 0d $ — 1  CSP VE ER I OPPS {POU Ja qe ATP dll CPCI SECON 4 | Era JEN  ms ILI Ls Lg pi) Sip) poms of ow Sd) 0 Gin as, SAIT Ls + G3 lindly pally alé auly Voge is  » BS Llyn p Lidl alos  Riel Lal Jy 001 54 om iy UN limp ny Ls go Bim By 0 mgd 1 ne ld 1  bla has oT 55 ellis + Sur JL pal Vin die Glad) F'éahfuel Ge 5 Gol dea OL 22 La  pal ddl Gly Jette là te lai] 5 Bus dob dels oF LLY Lalu plaldl 3a 75 5  HN ge all, po i) pue DL IL alo le berm ee ES bin dead of  Ei Ÿ hais 0, oS RII an Con 0 pe Slatin ptet ail pot ale 5 oS Le yas  Ad nal) AI a Leslie 5 Le Gard pds 5) pacs be Len 51 SS!
205, Sally lb Me omy gs ipl! ill 51, 02 gel OF FY of Yel et ll ce — CON  Frat, Ln Slug + puis IV Gil ge Up ddnsall Joan) po  piping Je dl brute SR  El slasViguolias EUT 0 lhe pte rill Beil) of Te pupil! ipl! oF tm SLi) Ge Jo 2 nd  gall de Pls Gagylod lial pd old  tng ART — 1 YY de VV ne Bi pie Be Spell 5 Fadil plmal pal sang oF Ge US  » Sep lil lewls Busy Le OL  dees a B31 lal) cpptandl gle JLo prêter rb lly OF cdpt LA fiat Bindi ais  pled! 5 val pô) DAS BIEL 5  is E00 RS G2 Vd oF lye 3/00 9 Bilt Lis Lois Lil an éhaJl ado 3 B03 LS — NS  + Lal) Gamal SA) GO!     us
12   y—É pus dy plus SSII pal 58 SEL SIT Ge IS ASE WEL EVER  , cb  «GLEN pio pple laid) Jp YN Jil) ep SoS BRI A as AS BN Gl pa : A also Lledo BEI lo ls «5 kdl odo Ja gpigall Jos lo Bios 61 p10 Gila Lu)  Mele Luis LS LOU pods gin dde oho HI PUB GB] dal Ge Jens oF Sain oii, MTS aa)  «4 hay dio ol pus sola YI Ul Sy  gs 0 sola HT an NE JE US 5! Lei LS alll coul yl V9 — Ut  ts Wei SES Landy Bad) dau b is Jp al IS pr al ka AJ pole licelo L  + dk LE La! ae oo) Laally Sas Cle  Fe als nl hp Lis seni) ge ol a LEU ppl indian 3155001 brad] 0 elles 1  le 23281 ly AV Lill 5 sympa pein GEN lad gl, ol ly Gene POS), S00 0k, Sui  ISF 51. WSN TE PERE TSA TE SOA | LEAR he a URE pr lite  Aaiill SANIT EAU I CTR SPCR 136 CASA VI HE JI Ji FSU SES J CT | DR 8 on 251 aap  Sel abu Glassy co bob le oy plo bs J sdk US GB bln pl plaise  I ym 3 45 Lome à, Lisl Gord) Nong Lee Le lise rss cé] SNS gn God) dlls of  + EI poliall  pln YS BEN Jan I so Las V1 Vie pe Lop hte dl dean) ld) Gop ly Or  » SH bla SORT] By SOR TENE AE ECR |  — avy ala 5m aa) paye oF a Ua) oS LY gall) ight ds Bi, ll) 4 np Lot Tuy i  ei Value Se mtg lll SU LES a STs) 03s le Shen fp) 4 BS 5542 Woy qyy  SEES IE VER TPN p9 reg WON FIVER OH FR ge DA BN DEP VI lin Les  Ni LE A oT apo ibe Tio a, IY: mb Be Ce LVS, Sead, — Yo      > et SM Aya SI SU i padly pa Lyd) nd pas] Jott) Sid) png WT : ah 6  elle glhs 5 US FL i dlhadl lo gui] Wis) Jens 1 IS AIR 6 po) ie pe alla)  » ll  l > dd) woadl elas le) JS Jeu Wolo De dlg JLas YI JE Log 051801 pms bush — ON  dedi 545 Ge LB Lil Je Liens Lpoge galled) ge only Le 5 PNEU SSII i J) Suis  = pdadly ps Wy WEI Ge as Los us (Slam lies 1d lan] pin 3 oll He Ïl, Jas! Jus ad gi  IERIE Les ol ERS ip! 311 le lbs WI pa elle ule Flan Ga — or  Gh) rns js LULA ST (5 aie dar LS Lad) BEI po ion jud) sûr 5 5 Spall (Sinan
5 pb 5 di pps OF as lly phd) SU Bled yy TV IMs ici 0) Gall bs mga  GI cacao lt 3) 5, Lan cas Lad Wy 16 (9130 Jp Va Bin 955 6 By in By Lion anit ls és I  RIK A press EIN C1] IG OS Lange Se + phil ce
(4.1) Mr. MESSADI (Tunisia) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr. President, Mr. President of the Executive Council, Mr. Director-General, Ladies and Gentlemen,  I would like, before anything else, to join with those who have spoken before me in expressing our deep re-  gret and condolences to the members of the delegation of Indonesia on the natural disaster that has befallen  their country. We hope that our brothers, the Indonesian people, will be able to overcome this catastrophe  courageously with the help of friendly nations.
(4.2) Allow me, Mr. President, to express to you personally and on behalf of the Tunisian delegation our  most cordial congratulations on your election as President of this Conference. I am certain that your wis-  dom and foresight will help us during the coming four weeks in performing our tasks in a friendly and clear  manner and ensure the success of our efforts.
(4.3) I would also like to express, at the outset, our delight and feeling of pride at the holding of the Gen-  eral Conference on the African continent, which two years ago gave Unesco one of its best sons, ;  Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, to lead it. Today Africa is offering its good earth and hospitality for this  Organization to hold its Conference.
(4.4) I wish to take this happy opportunity to extend to our Kenyan brothers, their Government and their  great leader Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, our best greetings and thanks for the facilities they have provided for  the holding of this meeting, which is a forum for the exchange of ideas and for the promotion of friendships  and brotherhood among the nations and continents represented.
(4.5) Iam also glad to congratulate the Director-General for his excellent statement in which he Le with rare wisdom, far-sightedness and a deep sense of responsibility, all the issues whichare facing Ent  today. I congratulate him on the way he has risen to these issues and embraced them with all their  sities, complexities and contradictions, and for the honest, courageous and selfless way in which he eu so honestly and objectively analysed them. This is an incentive for all of us to carry out our responsi  ties bearing in mind the greatness of the ideals of our Organization vested in us all.  ; ; i eat (4.6) Mr. President, Unesco is currently celebrating its thirtieth anniversary. This, according to gr  ; ; js period  historians like Herodotus and Ibn Khaldun, represents a generation, which means that the end of pe of  is, in fact, the beginning of a profound change and a basic transformation, the historical responsibility
516      which will be borne by a new generation which will replace the old one of this Organization, we ought to measure the distance we had covered a  order to determine our new objectives and continue our march towards the first thing that draws attention is that Unesco seems deter  priority is given to safeguarding moral ideals before any othe  darity goes beyond the emotional stage, making solidarity an issue of destiny, changing mentalities inorder to ensure the participation of all in building a world in transition where all hameau al on ; a  that they share a common destiny. What could be a more convincing proof of this ih 95 gh : by  draft Medium- Term Plan for 1977-1982 which we have before us today, through which es 4 5 reminding us of the fact that its main function is an intellectual and Moral one, and through a ae 4 calling upon us to pursue an approach, in our discussion based on a co i  ] ch, > mprehe © S  the restricted outlook imposed by limited ordinary action. 2 rk ek  At this outstanding stage in the life 12  nd explore the road lying ahead, in  : attaining them. In this connection,  mined to open up a new era in its life, in which  r objective; an era where the sense of soli-
(4.7) The question put before us again of the establishment of a new economic order based on a greater  degree of justice springs from the core of these problems and from these moral principles themselves  If, in our march towards these goals, we should stumble or encounter obstacles, let us consider that for  the first time, we are facing a global problem affecting the future of humanity as a whole, with all i ob-  vious and hidden contradictions, differences and disturbances as well as its diversified views as to what  will be the future of the world we are living in. Let no one believe that pursuing any technocratic approach  to ease contradicting interests among various human groups and to establish new methods to achieve amore  equitable distribution of resources and technology will by itself be sufficient, unless the mentalities which  govern behaviour change radically. Let us ask ourselves whether man, who is the agent of every change,  has himself changed under the influence of the rapid development which is taking place in the world we live  in? Is man still a wolf in his behaviour towards his fellowman, thus threatening a rapid extinction of hu-  manity, or has he surpassed his animal stage andis he marching towards the full realization of his humanity,  devoting himself to benevolence and his powers to progress and civilization?
(4.8) We are meeting here at the foot of Mount Kenya and in the heart of the African continent which may  well have witnessed the emergence of the first man. Let us look, then, at the world in its present state  and ask ourselves whether we have, during the last thirty years, realized any progress towards attaining  our objectives, we who, within the United Nations system, have believed that our message is basically one  of building a world governed by justice, peace and brotherhood among the peoples of the world. Facts will  make us admit that the gap between the general principle which, while experiencing the post-war euphoria,  we decided to defend and the present state of the world is indeed wide. Human dignity is still being violated,  justice is still in abeyance, and peace is still absent in many parts of our world. On the soil of this conti-  nent, which for centuries witnessed the ugliest form of exploitation of man by man and the continuous pillage  of its natural resources and the fruit of its civilization, we see Africans still suffering indignation and racial  discrimination, despite all the efforts being exerted to eradicate this ugly scourge. Furthermore, Africa's  natural resources are still being plundered by non-Africans who buy at the lowest prices in order to augment  the wealth of the already rich industrial societies, and Africa is still a playground for a kind of cultural col-  onialism because, as a great African writer said: "'it is masked by dialectical thinking, transformed into  intellect, intelligence and technology".
(4.9) Palestine, the land of peace where across the ages the prophets, from Moses and Jesus Christ to  Mohammed, have preached the message of truth, fraternity and peace, has been transformed in the space  of thirty years into a bastion of a loathsome colonialism, based on racialism, that foments a dispute of  international dimensions and threatens the entire world with unbridled tragedy, that has been responsible  for uprooting the people of Palestine from their fathers! homeland, and has gone even further and thrown  doubt on their very existence. The Zionist entity persists in treating the principles of justice as well as individ-  ual and national rights with contempt, in defying public international law and decisions taken by both the  United Nations and Unesco, and in maintaining a deplorable situation, as far as history and human conscience  are concerned. It has thus become imperative for the international community to face the constant challenge  imposed by Israel's racialist behaviour and its scornful attitude towards international decisions.
(4.10) Jerusalem is still subjected to various kinds of destructive and deformative actions in spite of suc-  cessive resolutions adopted by the General Conference of Unesco concerning the preservation of the city's  Christian and Islamic cultural heritage. Palestinian children in the occupied territories, and particularly  those living in Jerusalem, have been deprived until now of their legal right to national education and culture.
(4.11) Given this situation, we have no alternative but to call urgently on this General Conference of Unesco  not to spare its efforts to ensure observance of the decisions taken by previous General Conferences con-  cerning these two issues, and particularly decisions concerning Jerusalem.
(4.12) Unesco should assume control over education in the occupied territories, in collaboration with the  Arab countries concerned and the Palestine Liberation Organization, in order to provide the childrenliving  there with a system of education and culture that enables them to preserve their national cultural identity.  The Organization should also extend its support and provide the necessary funds to projects carried out in  the fields of education and culture benefiting the people of Palestine.
(4.13) Mr. President, before discussing the Organization's Programme and Budget, I would like to express  the views of the delegation of Tunisia on a number of items on the General Conference's agenda which have  particularly drawn our attention. Of great importance among these, is the establishment of a new inter-  national economic order. We have noted, with satisfaction, that while the world community is taking the  initiative in putting international relations on a more equitable basis, Unesco has been energetically seeking  to secure itself a pioneering role in establishing this new international economic order. This is not to be  wondered at, since Unesco, which incarnates the ''conscience of the entire human race and which acts as  à centre for reflection upon problems, is well suited to participate in achieving progress for the sir, 5  humanity and in removing the gaps that divide men into two categories, those who have excessive wea 5  and those who suffer excessive misery. The documents before us show that the primary objective of this  new order is to eliminate the disparities in the distribution of wealth that severely affect des re  world. Several paragraphs in these documents have portrayed the symptoms of disparities as TE 3  by reigning poverty and misery in Third World countries and by waste and oversconsumpiion 5 the develope  countries, with special reference to resources wasted on the production of increasingly enn oa  with the aim of perpetuating the domination of the strong over the weak and the wealthy over the poor. -  SLT
12 vanced by incredible speed in communication and mass media, the historical rapid change takin  the world is bringing about for all nations and continents an increasingly similar and interdepen  The implications of such change will, undoubtedly, compel the world to alter the economic system prac  up to the present and to introduce radical changes in the norms ruling economic relations between ee  and even between different social classes and individuals within the same community; yet this inevitable 2  change will not take place automatically, but has to be shaped and introduced by man himself,  g place in  dent life,
(4.14) For this purpose Unesco suggests creating an international body capable of taking steps towa  establishment of a new international economic order, stressing the necessity for this-body to be uni  representative and to have authority, legal status and means of action to ensure the fulfilment of its  In this respect the question should be asked whether the establishment of a new international econom  could be guaranteed by merely creating another international organization vested, like the others, wi  orities doomed, in reality, to appear both formal and relative.  rds the  versally  mission,  ic order  thauth.
(4.15) Tackling sucha major problem from the angle of reconciling conflicting interests within the frame.  work of a strategic and tactical plan that takes into consideration economic laws as well as social impera.  tives may divert us from our target. Numerous well-constructed legislative texts and international con-  ventions have never been put into effect, either for lack of sincere conviction onthe part of those responsible‘  for implementing them or because they have been viewed as an unbearable constraint which people readily  tend to violate and evade. The fact is that it will be impossible for any new international economic order  to emerge unless justice becomes a fundamental human requirement, and men deeply believe that the era  of the law of the jungle and exploitation of man by man, politically and economically, has gone forever.  Justice and peace emanate from and rest on the conscience of men, and can be strengthened only within  the minds of men. No international economic order could, therefore, become feasible without having as  its foundation a new universal cultural and moral order with the objective of replacing, in the heartsofmen  and in their transactions, the rule of economic laws and the conflict of interests stemming from them by  international law based on moral values which are shared by the whole of mankind and for whose promotion  and preservation Unesco was created.
(4.16) Unesco should thus direct its efforts to achieve this aim, because once it becomes universally ac-  cepted that the rule of justice, peace and fraternity must prevail in relations between men, regardless of  their different religions and races or their level of development, the new international economic order will  naturally emerge, and it will be easy to obtain whatever technical, constitutional and legislative meansmay  be needed to have it formally approved and implemented. i
(4.17) Mr. President, the delegation of Tunisia would like to say a word about another item on the agenda,  item 68, in spite of the fact that it will be submitted to Programme Commission III. The reason for this  is that it deserves to be discussed at other levels than that of the Commission. The point in question con-  cerns the draft declaration onrace and racial prejudice. As itis known, our General Conference previously  decided, at its eighteenth session, that Unesco should prepare, within its spheres of competence in defend-  ing human rights and peace, a draft universal declaration or charter on race and racial prejudice to be sub-  mitted for approval to the nineteenth, i.e. the present session. Our work in this respect would be of im-  mense symbolic meaning and deep significance if we can adopt this declaration on the soil of Africa, which  has suffered for a long time and is still suffering from racialism often supported by the worst forms of col-  onialism. Could this wish be fulfilled? We know that the meeting of the governmental experts responsible  for preparing a final text to be submitted to the General Conference was not convened; but we already have  the draft text prepared by the Director-General. The delegation of Tunisia feels, nevertheless, that this  point should be considered during the present General Conference, and hopes that the Director-General  could present a detailed report on the important and noteworthy effort carried out by him on the subject  until now.
(4.18) We also feel, however, that it will be extremely useful to open discussions on the Director-General's  text, as it seems adequate, subject to further modifications and improvements in the light of observations  included by the Member States in their answers. The discussions on this matter should no doubt lead to con-  structive recommendations aiming at facilitating the completion of the draft declaration, and consequently  the meeting of the governmental experts, which can be convened during the intermediate period before the  twentieth General Conference, would represent the final stage in preparing it.
(4.19) Mr. President, before concluding this part of my speech I would like to draw the Conference's atten-  tion to another point which appears to be of fundamental and vital importance to our Organization, namely  Member States' contributions to the budget. The most important issue concerning this problem resides in  the difficulties encountered by our Organization, which were pointed out in the Director-General's speech  and which are known to all of us, as a result of delays in the payment of arrears by some Member States.  Such a situation could not, in our view, be allowed to exist or to be repeated without causing immeasurable  harm to the fundamental achievements realized by our Organization during the past thirty years, and indeed  compromising the existence of the Organization itself.
(4.20) In this year and during these very days, the whole world is commemorating Unesco's thirtieth anniv-  ersary. A third of a century has elapsed during which the conscience of the world has been mobilized for  the maintenance of peace and achieving progress in the world through education, science and culture. We  should ask ourselves what might happen to these achievements if Unesco failed, for lack of financial re-  sources, to continue to fulfil its mission. It is certain that no State among those represented here that 3  respects itself and recognizes its international obligations would agree to share the responsibility amy  Unesco such damage. I, therefore, urgently appeal to the conscience of these countries to pay their  without delay in order to enable the Organization to carry on its mission of peace and progress, audio Lin  the intolerable accusation by world conscience of withholding contributions as a means of exerting pressure  on Unesco to yield, or change or shelve what was decided by its General Conferences, representing Thee  science of the world.  gestions of the (4.21) Mr President, at this point allow me to express the views, observations and sug n with  delegation of Tunisia in relation to the Medium- Term Plan and several other questions in ue Eu  the programme for the following biennium. I will restrict myself here to a limited number of er  as our delegation will have an opportunity to express its views in detail in the meetings to be held di
518      this session by the Programme Commissions as well as the Administrative Commission. As I have pre viously told the Executive Board, the Draft Medium- Term Plan for 1977-1982 undoubtedly marks eal event in the life of Unesco. It is certainly greatly to the credit of Unesco that it has succeeded in present- ing various world-wide problems on the basis of an extremely accurate and luci i i i in the world today. ucid analysis of the situation
(4.22) The first point to be noted in this plan is that cultural iden  future thinking and programming. The introduction says that "cu  large in the Medium- Term Plan, forming one of the key ideas on  gramme is based". The concept of cultural identity was highlight  objective in Chapter I concerning promotion of human rights.  in treating the subject. Yet, since culture is essentially the creation of new values, should not Unesco  devote its efforts to the establishment of a new international cultural order aiming or ensuring, for the  sake of humanity, overall progress which cannot be achieved by the new economic order alone?  tity appears in 19 C/4 as a standpoint for  ltural identity /is/ a notion which looms  which a considerable part of the pro-  ed at the beginning of the plan as a sub-  We endorse, without reservation, this view
(4.23) On the other hand is it not clear, as we have emphasized before, that no international economic  order can be established unless the human beings responsible for applying it change the nature of their  existing relationships based on utility and conflict between disparate interests? If this is the objective,  then we wish to see it voiced in a clearer manner and to see Unesco carry out in-depth reflection with the  intention of including culture among other fundamental elements in establishing the international order, and  to find in the same way methods and means needed to adopt the development of culture as Unesco's ultimate  objective. Has not Unesco repeatedly affirmed that its vocation is essentially and primarily a moral one?  If first priority were accorded to the development of world culture, in the widest sense, it would lead the  Organization to adopt its priorities, arrange its objectives and harmonize its plans and programmes around  this objective, considered as pivotal to all other elements.
(4.24) As far as Field programmes to be adopted are concerned, such a choice will place culture at the  centre of attention of whatever activities are carried out by the Organization. Unesco began to apply this  method at the beginning of the previous programme, but it appears from 19 C/5 that the tendency has been  sufficiently underlined in the draft budget for the next period 1977-1978. We feel, therefore, that this pri-  mary choice should not be overlooked in the study of both Draft Budget and Medium- Term Plan.
(4.25) I do not wish to conclude these observations on culture without expressing my astonishment about  something rather unexpected: Arab culture has been accorded a negligible part in the budget and pro-  gramme, to such an extent that it seems unfair and prejudicial. This situation should be rectified and the  delegation of Tunisia will call for that during discussions in Commission.
(4.26) In conclusion, and concerning culture, communication and information, we note with satisfaction  the move to incorporate culture and information in one chapter in the programme, a move which gives us  hope of approaching a new era in which means of communication and information media will reassess their  objectives and methods with the aim of putting them at the service of culture, fraternity and peace.
(4.27) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, these were some of the observations which our delegation  wished to submit to your esteemed Conference at this stage of the general policy debate, as a contribution  towards furthering our actions and improving the methods, plans and programmes to be adopted during the  present session of the General Conference, hoping that these will be of considerable help to humanity in  building for the first time in its history, a truly humane new civilization based on fraternity between men.  Thank you, Mr. President.
5. The PRESIDENT:  I wish to thank the head of the delegation of Tunisia, for his brilliant speech.  STATEMENT BY THE DELEGATE OF ALGERIA/DECLARATION DU DELEGUE DE L'ALGERIE/  DECLARACION DEL DELEGADO DE ARGELIA/ 3ABIIEHHE IEJNETATA ATXHPA/  Gal C5 wd wus
6. The PRESIDENT: ;  Ladies and gentlemen, before we go to the next speaker, I have been asked to allow five  minutes to the leader of the delegation of Algeria, to voice a matter of special concern to this ple-  nary assembly, and with your permission I take this opportunity to call on H. E. the Minister,  Mr. Abdallah Fadel, to address us.
7.1 M. FADEL (Algérie). - on  Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, c'est avec une profonde indigna-  tion que nous venons d'apprendre qu'un pays frère, la République populaire du Mozambique, voit  une fois de plus son territoire attaqué et sa souveraineté et son intégrité territoriales violées par  les forces armées du régime minoritaire, illégal et raciste de la colonie britannique de la  Rhodésie du Sud. Le 31 octobre dernier, une série d'attaques ont été déclenchées - elles se pour-  Suivent encore - en divers points du territoire souverain de la République populaire du … ;  Mozambique. Les forces armées racistes utilisent l'aviation, l'artillerie, des blindés, l'infanterie  et la cavalerie pour massacrer des civils sans défense, des femmes, des enfants et des LU  semant la désolation et la destruction. Ces sortes d'agressions ont été constantes depuis 1 sauts  à l'indépendance de la République populaire du Mozambique. Cette nouvelle escalade dans l'agres-  sion dont le peuple mozambicain est victime a pour but de détruire le pouvoir populaire a  Mozambique, car il contrecarre les intérêts impérialistes et racistes en Afrique australe.
12 7.2 Mais ces attaques n'ont pu être perpétrées qu'avec le soutien actif et continu du régime  d'apartheid de Pretoria. Une fois de plus cela témoigne de la nature violente et brutale des  derniers bastions colonialistes et de l'impérialisme en Afrique australe. De nouveau, la dignité  d'un peuple engagé dans la construction d'une nouvelle société est en train d'être violée par Tes  agents du colonialisme et de l'impérialisme, qui veulent forcer le Mozambique à se défendre  militairement de manière à internationaliser le conflit.
7.3 Les attaques des forces armées du régime raciste de Salisbury essaient de détourner l'atten-  tion de la situation en Rhodésie et en Afrique du Sud pour la concentrer sur le Mozambique et sur  d'autres pays africains, Mais cela n'a été possible qu'avec l'appui du régime raciste d'Afrique du  Sud et d'autres forces impérialistes. La Conférence générale de l'Unesco ne peut discuter de la  paix, de la liberté, de la justice et des droits de l'homme sans condamner énergiquement cette  agression contre la souveraineté de la République populaire du Mozambique. Je vous remercie,  ANNOUNCEMENTS BY THE PRESIDENT/COMMUNICATIONS DU PRESIDENT/ COMUNICACIONES  DEL PRESIDENTE/ COOBNMEH USI IPE IGE TATE / ui) Ge cast
8.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to thank the head of the delegation of Algeria for presenting that  grave matter to us. Before calling on the next speaker, I have several announcements to make from  the Chair.
8.2 The first is that we have not yet received the names of the four Arab States which would form  part of the Drafting and Negotiation Group.
8.3 Then, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to report briefly at this point on the discussions which  took place in the General Committee of the Conference this morning. Before doing so, however, and  since, through the magic of twentieth century technology, our debates and in fact the debates of all  the bodies meeting at this time, are being directly transmitted to our Organization's Headquarters  in Paris, in English and in French, I should like to say Jambo, Good morning and Bonjour to all  those who are listening to us in Paris.
8.4 Having said this, I now present my report on the General Committee's meeting. The Commit-  tee received reports on the progress of work from the Chairman of the Administrative Commission,  the Chairman of Programme Commission III and the Chairman of the Legal Committee. The two  Commissions mentioned - but not the Legal Committee - are at least one day behind schedule, and  you know that we also in the plenary are behind schedule. Consequently, and with much regret, [  have to announce night meetings for the plenary, for Commission III and for the Administrative Com-  mission, tonight. I also wish to inform you in advance that the plenary meeting tomorrow afternoon  will be prolonged till at least 7. 30 p. m.
8.5 The General Committee also discussed the preparations for the celebration of Unesco's thirtieth  anniversary next Thursday and decided that, in order to save time for the Conference, the numberof  speakers should be maintained at five: that is, the President of the General Conference, the Chair-  man of the Executive Board, the Representative of the host Government, the President of the Seychelles,  and some concluding remarks by the Director-General.
8.6 Iwishtotell the plenary that I informed the General Committee this morning of a letter re-  ceived from the head of the delegation of El Salvador informing the Director-General that, owing  to the present economic crisis, El Salvador is unable to pay its arrears of contributions at this  time, but will do its best to meet its financial obligations as soon as possible. The head of the  delegation of El Salvador consequently requests to be authorized to vote at this session of tite Gen-  eral Conference. Following past practice I intend, with your agreement, to refer this matter to  the Administrative Commission for consideration and report as soon as possible.
8.7 Lastly, I should like to report to you that the Committee has started discussion on procedures  for the consideration of a provisional budget ceiling, which discussion will be continued at the Com-  mittee's meeting on Saturday. As you know, the plenary consideration of this action will take place  next Tuesday.  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)/DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)/DEBATE DE  POLITICA GENERAL (continuaciôn) / OBCYXIEHHE BOIIPOCOB OBIEHK MOIHTHKH (npononxent)  ( els ) a Lal dw Loud 08 Le
9. The PRESIDENT: :  I now call on the next speaker, H.E. Mr. Galéma Guilavogui, Minister of Pre- University  Education and Literacy and head of the delegation of Guinea.
10.1 M. GUILAVOGUI (Guinée). -  Monsieur le Président, à la suite du grave séisme que vient de connaître le d'Indonésie, vous me permettrez d'associer notre voix à celle des délégations qui nous ont précédés  pour exprimer la sympathie et la solidarité du gouvernement et du peuple de Guinée à l'endroit du  peuple et du gouvernement frères d'Indonésie, et particulièrement des familles douloureusement  éprouvées par la catastrophe.  pays ami
10,2 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur  général, honorables délégués, la délégation guinéenne à la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence  générale de l'Unesco a le plaisir de vous transmettre les chaleureuses salutations du peuple de  Guinée, de son parti-Etat, le parti démocratique de Guinée, de son leader bien-aimé responsable  suprême de la révolution, le stratège Ahmed Sekou Touré. Elle voudrait tout d'abord. Monsieur le  Président, vous adresser ses vives félicitations pour votre brillante élection à la présidence de la  Conférence et adresser à travers votre personne au peuple du Kenya et à son Président tous ses  remerciements pour l'accueil dont elle a été l'objet depuis son arrivée en terre kényenne.
10,3 Monsieur le Président, notre délégation voudrait saisir cette occasion pour rendre un hom-  mage mérité à Mme Magda Joboru, présidente sortante, pour la compétence et la perspicacité dont  elle a fait preuve tout au long des débats de la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale.  Elle félicite également M. Hector Wynter, président du Conseil exécutif, pour la minutie et l'effi-  cacité avec lesquelles il a présidé aux préparatifs de la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence  générale.
10.4 Monsieur le Président, notre délégation se félicite très sincèrement de l'admission au sein  de l'Organisation des nouveaux Etats membres que sont le Mozambique, la Papouasie-Nouvelle-  Guinée, le Surinam, les Seychelles et la Grenade. Cette admission élargit la grande famille de  l'Unesco, et constitue de ce fait une preuve supplémentaire de sa vocation universelle,
10.5 Notre délégation voudrait saluer plus particulièrement l'admission de la République popu-  laire d'Angola à l'Unesco. En effet, peu de pays ont payé d'un prix aussi élevé leur indépendance  nationale, C'est pourquoi nous considérons les vives acclamations qui ont ponctué le vote positif  de notre assemblée comme un hommage mérité rendu aux martyrs nombreux et anonymes de  l'Angola.
10.6 Monsieur le Président, la délégation guinéenne tient à rendre un hommage combien mérité  à la mémoire du président Mao Tsé-toung, une des très grandes figures du prolétariat interna -  tional, un grand dirigeant dont l'autorité, résultant de sa grande contribution idéologique et pra-  tique, a marqué de façon décisive la phase de la révolution dans le monde depuis la Seconde Guerre  mondiale. Le rôle éminent joué par le président Mao est considéré par la révolution guinéenne  comme un apport très positif à l'enrichissement dans de nombreux domaines de la théorie de la  révolution populaire et de la pratique du combat des peuples.
10.7 Monsieur le Président, permettez à ma délégation de s'acquitter d'un agréable devoir, celui  de rendre un vibrant hommage à M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, directeur général de l'Unesco, pour  son action éminemment positive à la tête de notre Organisation. En effet, en dépit des nombreuses  difficultés créées à l'Unesco depuis la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale, il est par-  venu, grâce à un dévouement total, à un dynamisme remarquable et à une ténacité sans faille,  alliés par-dessus tout à une rare intelligence, à maintenir l'orientation définie par la dix-huitième  session et, mieux, à conférer à l'Organisation un plus grand rayonnement dans le monde. La délé-  gation guinéenne voudrait lui exprimer solennellement son soutien total dans la poursuite et le ren-  forcement de l'action déjà entreprise. Nous sommes d'ores et déjà convaineus que cette action  débouchera sur une plus grande compréhension entre les peuples pour l'instauration d'un nouvel  ordre économique international.
10,8 Dans cette optique, les peuples du Tiers Monde, et particulièrement ceux d'Afrique, fondent  de grands espoirs sur l'Unesco et lui font confiance dans sa mission de promotion de l'éducation,  de la science et de la culture au service d'un développement global. A cet égard, nous jugeons de  bon augure la tenue pour la première fois en Afrique d'une session de la Conférence générale de  l'Unesco, et nous nous en réjouissons de tout notre coeur,
10.9 Depuis la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale, les rapports de force se sont  modifiés en faveur des peuples en lutte. De ce fait, le système d'exploitation et de domination perd  de plus en plus de terrain sur l'ensemble des fronts anti-impérialistes. Aussi notre délégation  salue-t-elle chaleureusement l'indépendance du Mozambique et de l'Angola et adresse-t-elle ses  vives félicitations au FRELIMO et au MPLA ainsi qu'aux peuples mozambicain et angolais pour  leur victoire éclatante sur le colonialisme, Nous attirons l'attention de la Conférence sur les  menaces que les régimes racistes de la Rhodésie et de l'Afrique du Sud continuent à faire peser  Sur l'indépendence de ces jeunes Etats. Notre délégation saisit cette occasion pour exprimer à  tous les combattants de la liberté, et notamment à ceux qui luttent en Afrique du Sud contre le  régime raciste et fasciste de l'apartheid, la solidarité agissante de notre parti-Etat, qui reste  profondément convaincu de la victoire finale des peuples en lutte.
10.10 L'analyse de l'actualité internationale nous permet de constater que la situation en Afrique  australe est restée inchangée en dépit des multiples démarches entreprises dans un esprit de
12  "bonne volonté'' par ceux-là même qui jusqu'ici ont été indifférents aux souffrances des peuples  de cette région où l'homme noir doit encore retrouver sa liberté et sa dignité. En fait, par des  procédures dilatoires - médiations, conférences constitutionnelles - on s'efforce de créer en  Namibie, tout comme en Rhodésie, des Etats-tampons destinés à protéger l'apartheid, sous la  forme de bantoustans, ou d'octroyer une souveraineté factice dans le but de perpétuer l'odieux  régime sud-africain. Pour la République de Guinée, il n'est plus question de confusion, Les my.  tiples agressions perpétuées dans les Etats souverains voisins (Angola, Mozambique, Zambie)  et les massacres de Soweto et d'Alexandra prouvent que l'Afrique du Sud est fidèle à elle-même  Aucune confusion ne devra done plus nous détourner de la réalité des choses. Nous disons que  pour sortir de l'impasse, en Afrique australe, la lutte armée n'est pas une solution, mais la solu-  tion. Ainsi l'apartheid sera définitivement enterré. ee
10.11 Monsieur le Président, quand, sous la poussée de la lutte de libération, les puissances de  domination sont contraintes de lâcher prise, elles trouvent d'autres moyens et méthodes pour  perpétuer leur présence, l'objectif final étant de mettre en place un gouvernement néocolonial, A  cette fin, elles vont parfois jusqu'à encourager la sécession. Le cas de Mayotte constitue l'exemple  le plus flagrant. C'est pourquoi notre délégation réaffirme son ferme soutien au peuple et au gou-  vernement comoriens pour la récupération de leur province. S'agissant de la Côte dite française  des Somalis, notre délégation exige l'indépendance immédiate et sans condition de ce territoire,  conformément aux aspirations légitimes de son peuple.
10.12 Notre délégation félicite chaleureusement le courageux peuple vietnamien pour sa victoire  triomphale sur l'ennemi impérialiste, et se réjouit de la réunification de la patrie vietnamienne  conformément aux voeux de l'immortel Hô Chi Minh. De même, elle acclame la victoire éclatante  du peuple khmer et le rétablissement de la démocratie au Kampuchea. Le soutien de notre peuple  et de notre parti-Etat va également au peuple chilien, en lutte pour le rétablissement des droits  de l'homme et de la démocratie nationale dans cette région du monde. Enfin, nous soutenons la  juste lutte du peuple palestinien en vue de recouvrer sa patrie usurpée.
10.13 Monsieur le Président, notre conception de l'Unesco est déjà connue, Sa mission essen-  tielle est d'aider les Etats membres à préserver et à développer leurs acquis culturels et scien-  tifiques d'une part, et, de l'autre, à favoriser l'interpénétration de leurs cultures en vue d'une  meilleure compréhension entre les peuples. Car la culture n'est pas seulement l'ensemble des  fôrmes par lesquelles s'exprime le génie créateur des peuples, mais aussi et surtout une concep-  tion de la vie qui règle les rapports de ces peuples avec la nature et avec les autres peuples, et,  au sein de chacun d'eux, les rapports intrasociaux. Elle est la cristallisation de la somme des  acquis matériels et non matériels d'une société, l'expression de la maftrise consciente des élé-  ments naturels et du niveau d'harmonie dans la nature des rapports sociaux liant les individus ou  les sociétés entre eux dans la pratique productive. Ainsi l'économique et le social se retrouvent  dans le culturel. Mieux, ce dernier les conditionne, car le sous-développement matériel n'est  qu'une conséquence du non-développement culturel, c'est-à-dire du non-développement des capa-  cités intellectuelles, techniques et technologiques des peuples.
10.14 Aussi est-il normal que l'Unesco se préoccupe de l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre écono-  mique international, qui rétablirait entre les peuples les valeurs de justice, de respect et de soli-  darité auxquelles ils aspirent légitimement mais qu'ils ne peuvent tous atteindre en raison de leur  sous-développement matériel. C'est pourquoi l'Unesco s'attache résolument à l'élimination des  inégalités au niveau des éléments d'une même nation et entre nations différentes, afin que les  droits à l'éducation, à l'accès et à la participation à la culture appartiennent à tous et à chacun et  que le potentiel scientifique et technique cesse d'être l'apanage des seuls pays industrialisés.  L'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique mondial repose également sur le respect de l'identité  culturelle de chaque peuple et sur la vérité première qu'il ne peut exister ni cultures supérieures  ni cultures inférieures ; il n'y a que des cultures plus ou moins humaines, selon qu'elles consi-  dèrent l'homme comme une fin ou un vulgaire moyen.
10.15 Monsieur le Président, en matière d'éducation et d'enseignement, la République de Guinée,  conformément aux options fondamentales de son parti-Etat, a délibérément choisi, dès les  premiers moments de son indépendance, d'éliminer toutes les disparités et inégalités et d'entre-  prendre une démocratisation intégrale dans ce domaine. La ligne de masse est le principe qui sous-  tend cette action. Elle traduit à la fois une vision du monde fondée essentiellement sur la primauté  du peuple, et une stratégie visant à fournir une impulsion à l'ensemble de la population grâce qu  démocratisation de l'enseignement et à tuer en l'homme les habitudes et les conceptions individua-  listes de l'existence, en éliminant leurs incidences sur la vie sociale.
10.16 Ainsi, la ligne de masse se conçoit de deux façons complémentaires. Sur le plan horizontal,  elle vise à scolariser tous les enfants en âge de l'être dans la nation, afin de résorber une fois  pour toutes l'analphabétisme scientifique et technique. Sur le plan vertical, elle vise à hisser  l'ensemble des enfants au niveau scientifique le plus élevé possible : l'enseignement est rendu  obligatoire pour tous les enfants jusqu'au terme de la douzième année d'études, classe du  baccalauréat.
10.17 L'application de cette ligne de masse à notre système d'éducation nous a permis de passer  de 42.000 élèves en 1958 à plus de 300. 000 aujourd'hui, et de donner à l'école guinéenne une  physionomie et un contenu nouveaux répondant à notre idéologie politique, qui tend à une décoloni-  sation des mentalités ; aux besoins d'une science et d'une technique modernes adaptées à notre
522     pays et à notre peuple en ce qui concerne les sciences de la nature ; à la nécessité d'une liaison  organique entre la théorie et la pratique, entre le savoir et le savoir-faire, entre l'école et la vie
10.18 Ce nécessaire progrès de l'éducation et de l'enseignement constitue le meilleur moyen de  parvenir à former un homme complet, c'est-à-dire l'homme dans sa conscience politique tls  dans son sens de la vie, l'homme dans ses capacités créatrices, l'homme dans la vie sociale et  face à l'histoire.
10.19 Désormais conçue comme un moyen destiné à satisfaire les besoins du peuple par la forma-  tion de producteurs conscients et compétents, l'école nouvelle joue un rôle primordial dans  l'oeuvre de rénovation et d'édification nationales. Insérée dans la vie de la nation et en parfaite  harmonie avec les impératifs de la révolution, elle doit conférer aux générations montantes de  nouvelles dimensions leur permettant d'assumer les destinées de leur société villageoise, régio-  nale et africaine.
10.20 La liaison entre l'école et la vie apparaît comme une impérieuse nécessité dans cette en-  treprise qui consiste à faire du Centre d'éducation révolutionnaire un élément moteur de la com-  munauté de base que constitue le pouvoir révolutionnaire local (PRL), c'est-à-dire l'un des points  d'appui fondamentaux de la révolution. De ce fait, l'intégration du travail manuel dans l'éducation,  notion naguère dévaluée par une école coloniale rétrograde, prend une grande signification  pédagogique.
10,21 L'école constitue ainsi désormais un centre de formation dont l'objectif n'est plus d'en-  seigner des connaissances intellectuelles et théoriques, mais de dispenser un enseignement  complet, orienté et rendu plus utile par l'approfondissement des liens entre la théorie et la pra-  tique, par la participation entière des jeunes aux activités productives de la nation. Le Centre  d'éducation révolutionnaire devient un noyau de formation polytechnique et une unité de production  soudée au pouvoir révolutionnaire local qu'il a mission de dynamiser.
10.22 La liaison entre l'école et la vie devient ainsi une nécessité permanente, universelle, un  mot d'ordre qui prend une signification singulière pour des peuples qui, comme le nôtre, ont eu  à subir une politique de dépersonnalisation, d'exploitation et d'oppression, Ces peuples-là consi-  dèrent que, pour être, il leur faut intégrer leur personnalité, rassembler leurs acquis positifs,  déterminer à quelle étape ils en sont de leur évolution, et projeter de nouvelles phases de leur  développement afin que, par le travail créateur, leur évolution s'accélère vers un bonheur popu-  laire. La liaison entre l'école et la vie, plus qu'une nécessité, est une exigence vitale pour les  peuples ayant subi la domination coloniale.
10.23 L'éducation en Guinée fait preuve d'une grande vitalité. À côté des brillants résultats déjà  obtenus, l'intervention révolutionnaire des étudiants dans les collectivités rurales s'inscrit comme  un témoignage éloquent et une manifestation éclatante de la justesse de la ligne tracée par le parti  démocratique de Guinée, celle de la liaison entre l'école et la vie. La brigade mécanisée de pro-  duction, composée de jeunes des universités et des écoles, en jetant dans le cadre du pouvoir révo-  lutionnaire local les bases d'une production moderne correspondant à la ligne de masse, devient,  pour employer l'heureuse expression du responsable suprême de la révolution, "un instrument  privilégié de la révolution culturelle". Elle jette les bases d'une tradition, celle de l'université  à la campagne qui soude désormais l'école à son milieu.
10,24 Au niveau de l'enseignement dispensé au Centre d'éducation révolutionnaire, la répartition  du temps de travail obéit à ce souci de lier constamment la théorie à la pratique, le sujet à l'objet  de la formation. Dans le troisième cycle, par exemple, le temps global de travail se répartit  comme suit : 40 % d'enseignement général, 30 % d'enseignement professionnel et 30 % de produc-  tion. Chaque école s'adonne de ce fait à la pratique productive, concrétisation de l'enseignement  théorique dispensé en classe.
10.25 Toujours dans le souci d'une meilleure adéquation de l'école aux réalités socio-économiques  de la communauté villageoise, la révolution guinéenne se fixe pour objectif de former des cadres  polyvalents destinés à servir le peuple, à l'aider à acquérir la meilleure formation possible afin  que le pouvoir révolutionnaire local devienne véritablement cette cellule génératrice du socialisme  et du bonheur pour nos peuples. Car, comme le dit le camarade président Ahmed Sekou Touré,  “l'école doit cesser d'être une simple machine à décerner des diplômes pour devenin un moyen de  formation des hommes, producteurs des biens concourant au bonheur du peuple”. C'est pouzquot,  a partir de cette année, 1'Université guinéenne a commence a recruter et a orienter ses étudiants  en fonction des besoins des pouvoirs révolutionnaires locaux, c'est-à-dire des communes  villageoises.
10.26 La solution de ces besoins résidant essentiellement dans la production de biens matériels  de consommation et l'activité principale de nos communautés villageoises étant l'agriculture, In  n'est pas étonnant que 75 % de nos étudiants soient orientés dans les sciences agrozoctechniques,  Ces jeunes, une fois sortis de l'école, trouveront donc un débouché naturel au niveau des pouvoirs  révolutionnaires locaux, et avec une telle philosophie de la formation des cadres il ne saurait se  poser en République de Guinée un quelconque problème de chômage.
10.27 Monsieur le Président, la République de Guinée, dans sa.volonté de démocratiser l'éduca-  tion, se penche particulièrement sur les larges masses laborieuses qui représentent la plus  grande partie des producteurs, afin de les soustraire à l'état d'obscurantisme où les avait confinés  le système colonial.
10.28 Car la formation et le perfectionnement des travailleurs font partie intégrante dès objectifs  prioritaires de la révolution guinéenne, tant il est vrai que tout véritable développement n'est pos-  sible et mesurable qu'à travers la qualification professionnelle permanente des agents du dévelop-  pement. C'est pourquoi des institutions spécialisées telles que l'Institut pédagogique national, le  Service national de télé-enseignement, le Centre national de productivité, s'occupent activement  de la formation et du perfectionnement des producteurs de toutes spécialités travaillant dans les  difféPents secteurs de la vie publique. Le Service national d'alphabétisation, conscient que l'igno-  rance est la plus grave des maladies et que le savoir est le vrai fondement du pouvoir, se con-  sacre depuis 1968 à une lutte à outrance contre l'analphabétisme afin d'apprendre à lire et écrire  aux larges masses populaires dans leur langue maternelle, de les éduquer en les formant et en  les perfectionnant dans leurs métiers respectifs et dans leur cadre socioculturel.
10.29 Monsieur le Président, la violence et l'injustice qui sévissent aujourd'hui dans le monde ne  sont pas une punition de Dieu, mais le fait de l'impérialisme impénitent qui se sert de la science  et de la technique pour subjuguer les peuples. C'est par l'acquisition et l'utilisation à des fins  humanitaires de cette science et de cette technique que les peuples naguère dominés pourront  accéder à un vrai développement, afin que soit rétabli désormais l'équilibre entre les peuples par  l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international. Car, comme l'a dit le président Ahmed  Sekou Touré, "T"Afrique ne doit jamais perdre de vue qu'elle a été colonisée gréce a la science et  à la technique, et que son combat pour sa repersonnalisation et le développement de ses capacités  et ressources diverses implique aussi qu'elle accède pleinement à la science et a la technique ;  son industrialisation, son progrès économique général, sa qualification sociale, son épanouisse-  ment humain, sont à ce prix". L'Unesco, qui a choisi de diffuser largement la science, la tech-  nique et la technologie, trouve donc naturellement chez nos peuples en développement une totale  disponibilité et une volonté farouche d'épanouir, de développer et de vulgariser le savoir-faire et  le faire-savoir.
10.30 La République de Guinée, outre l'enseignement dispensé dans les centres d'éducation révo-  lutionnaire, s'attelle, à travers l'Institut national de recherche et de documentation, à une activité  de recherche intense et approfondie tant dans les domaines des sciences sociales que dans ceux  des sciences exactes et naturelles. Des secteurs aussi variés que la préhistoire, l'histoire,  l'archéologie, les sciences politiques et juridiques, la linguistique, l'océanographie, l'hélio-  technique, font l'objet d'une patiente et minutieuse étude de la part des chercheurs guinéens.
10.31 Monsieur le Président, le parti démocratique de Guinée est conscient du fait que tous ces  efforts de notre peuple ne sauraient aboutir sans que les grandes puissances industrialisées pro-  cèdent à un réexamen approfondi de leur assistance aux nations moins nanties. Les pays développés  doivent accepter, pour plus de justice et d'amour entre les peuples, un transfert effectif et plus  efficace de la technique et de la technologie. C'est pourquoi notre délégation félicite l'Unesco et  l'encourage à continuer de s'acquitter de sa noble mission consistant à accorder à tous les peuples  du monde des chances égales pour l'utilisation de la science et de la technique en vue d'un devenir  meilleur.
10.32 Monsieur le Président, la délégation de la République de Guinée approuve le Projet de pro-  gramme et de budget pour 1977-1978 soumis à l'attention des délégués à la dix-neuvième session  de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco. Elle approuve également le document 19 C/4, et adresse  ses vives félicitations au Directeur général et à l'ensemble du Secrétariat pour la clarté de la pré-  sentation et le sérieux du travail accompli. Le mérite du chef du Secrétariat de l'Organisation est  d'autant plus grand que c'est la première fois qu'un organisme du système des Nations Unies  soumet à l'approbation de sa Conférence générale un Projet de plan à moyen terme, en l'oceur-  rence un projet sexennal. Cette initiative, mise en oeuvre par M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, prouve  encore une fois, s'il en était besoin, sa détermination farouche de garantir à l'Unesco la stabilité  de son budget, et ceci malgré l'inflation, les fluctuations monétaires et les obstacles de tous ordres  le plus souvent délibérément dressés sur son chemin. Tout en approuvant donc ces deux documents,  nous nous réservons la possibilité de faire part de nos suggestions au sein des différentes  commissions.
10.33 Quant au rapport d'activité présenté par le Directeur général à la dix-neuvième session,  la délégation du parti-Etat de Guinée l'a écouté avec un vif intérêt, et elle félicite chaleureuse-  ment M. M'Bow pour le courage moral et politique et la franchise qui le caractérisent. Son inter-  vention magistrale n'est pas seulement un document de haute portée politique, c'est aussi et  surtout un vaste programme d'actions hardies et d'initiatives heureuses qui ont permis d'éviter  à l'appareil de notre Organisation de se gripper. Nous joignons ici notre voix à celle du Directeur  général pour exprimer notre reconnaissance aux Etats membres qui ont bien voulu consentir des  prêts sans intérêt à l'Unesco, prêts qui lui ont permis d'exécuter le programme que lui avait  assigné la Conférence générale à sa dix-huitième session. S'agissant en outre du paiement des  contributions, nous faisons nôtre l'appel pressant lancé par le Directeur général dans son rapport  invitant les Etats membres qui ne l'ont pas encore fait à s'acquitter le plus rapidement possible  de leur quote-part.
10.34 Monsieur le Président, la République de Guinée n'a jamais perdu de vue l'action inlassable  de l'Unesco en faveur de la paix et sa contribution à la paix, ainsi que ses tâches relatives à la  promotion des droits de l'homme et à l'élimination définitive du colonialisme et du racisme. Mais  il reste évident que l'on ne saurait parler de paix réelle tant que des peuples gémiront sousla  botte des racistes et des fascistes qu'encouragent leurs maîtres impérialistes, tant que des peuples  dis-je, seront privés des droits humains les plus élémentaires. A cet égard où ne saurait passer j  sous silence la répression sauvage qui s'abat sur les peuples de l'Afrique australe Les crimes  de Soweto et d'ailleurs sont un exemple flagrant d'oppression culturelle. C'est pourquoi la déléga-  tion que j'ai l'honneur de conduire salue l'initiative de l'Unesco visant à publier une déclaration  universelle sur la race et les préjugés raciaux. Ce sera là une nouvelle contribution positive de  notre Organisation, contribution qui viendra s'ajouter aux efforts dont 1! objectif est l'instauration  d'un nouvel ordre économique international. Comme le souligne notre guide bien-aimé, respon-  sable suprême de la révolution, le camarade président Ahmed Sékou Touré : "l'impérialisme ne  connaît pas l'Afrique et ne la connaîtra jamais". Mais Vorster, Ian Smith et leurs cliques tiennent  à la connaître, et ils la connaftront à leurs dépens. Car lorsqu'un peuple se lève comme un seul  homme et veut respirer l'air de la liberté, de la dignité et de la souveraineté, rien ne peut com-  primer ses poumons, même les armes les plus sophistiquées. L'exemple du Viêt-nam en est une  brillante illustration,
10.35 Monsieur le Président, pour conclure, nous affirmons, du haut de cette tribune et comme  nous l'avons toujours fait, que l'Unesco, à l'instar de toutes les organisations du système des  Nations Unies regroupant des représentants de gouvernements d'Etats souverains, est et ne peut  être qu'une organisation d'abord politique, avant d'être scientifique et culturelle.
10.36 Monsieur le Président, notre délégation se fait l'écho de la résolution 486 (XXVII) de l'OUA  invitant tous ses membres à oeuvrer pour la suppression pure et simple de l'inique droit de veto,  en vue d'assurer le respect du principe de l'égalité de tous les Etats membres des Nations Unies,  car, comme l'affirme le chef de l'Etat guinéen, "l'ONU pratique l'apartheid au Conseil de sécurité".  L'injustice dans les relations internationales ne saurait durer indéfiniment.
10.37 Monsieur le Président, nous voulons rappeler qu'à l'intérieur comme à l'extérieur de notre  pays la contre-révolution poursuit ses activités. L'impérialisme international continue d'infiltrer  des mercenaires à travers les frontières pour venir perturber le cours normal de la révolution  populaire et démocratique guinéenne. En effet, depuis la création de l'Etat populaire et indépendant  de Guinée, les forces impérialistes sont restées hostiles à la révolution guinéenne, qu'elles com-  battent sans trêve ni relâche et cherchent à abattre par tous les moyens, y compris même l'agres-  sion armée, comme ce fut le cas le 22 novembre 1970. Le parti démocratique de Guinée reste con-  vaineu que la cause qu'il défend est assurée d'une victoire retentissante. La révolution, qui se  radicalise chaque jour davantage en Guinée et en Afrique, surmontera toutes les embâches pour  imposer la souveraineté vraie et l'unité africaine, débarrassée de toute influence réactionnaire.
10.38 Pour terminer, la délégation du parti-Etat de Guinée souhaite à M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow,  directeur général de l'Unesco, à son Secrétariat ainsi qu'au Conseil exécutif, des succès encore  plus éclatants dans leur noble tâche, qui consiste à renforcer et à développer une coopération inter-  nationale franche et loyale dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science, de la technique, de la  culture et de la communication. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.  (M. Penalver (Venezuela) prend la présidence)
(11) The PRESIDENT (translation from the Spanish): i 2  I thank the head of the delegation of Guinea, and I call upon H.E. Mr. Chams Eldine El-Wakil, perma-  nent delegate of the Arab Republic of Egypt and head of his country's delegation.  ( poe) JS} y all guet pS AIT aed! — VND)
6 poles law 5 pled) abel ped) ded! ;  ly gas pu Il lad) Lyes8aJ Lugs, of, Les Vial G3 c yan iy pole pload patil ty 5s el 51  Juke Ball V3) Lino Lp Ling dagSimg Lans, igyondly Anball Lis yw choi foo Vinelill 4  RE PE WAT IR US [PF Wows PRESS PST J SE SEE  fuit dam Sigal) pls li lle GD pe Sony Beg WII (J peifll Vda Sail ol — VON  Ita à aral y COM WA Falii US 5 Lans! v4s Ils lle ol wld ws Fa «eS  al Coy Sas (99 0 lg Las YI 43 iy pens 1S y AA SSI Bly Lund] BE dp 2d pally  orl ALN 1 Gund 5  Sap ib Ce Lady 18 Lad) pga dis LIT à, Leal) juan jo iS peel ol pl eld suc vy  ty Sn wall 8800 pal rit ler Fill Lan ly + EL fell Lan Je ats  vst Je ups, Ole Las Yes upd) wy bay pSaspl Lex larly Grip lil 5 Wis desl odadl ous,  ola ly dsl, JS
4055 Ge AS VPN pie pas Cpirs BN Dy By OER EY | TUFTS IRE LL 801 LL Sea ab  «dy ule LE: SN ét  s 3 has BL ley. Sind) dol 5e edt] a bad] Ds ie ib Lu Jon, 1001 os  RECT I) li Leige Ippo rid le belts 4,4 85 ll SE, me Wy Sly + Clas cp dan)  + als Lslunlgyl,  Yo aT pls amp ddisedl GI 1 0s cds) (ol Jy WI) US ANS od) ds sl esl, angl | we Lg  + sSuspedl D Las) 2120 LS Jy dl sde pas! Re os ol Lo bye Le Laas | lol Ljushe ily gull  Lr ilo.) dsl Jy ue apis Hl Sep LY) basi à (RV PRES: ll eons sa —  i GRAN Bs old) lé Lo jpeg dal ASSIS Pony (Sond dsl G1, sl  Auf I endl G51 Gl jg Sels qe ¢ Lite Bg bd 5 SI LLB, «Spl Sas 5)  Spl Sas | A GN al Bs oll) p lot — Bi yyy  ely sl days lie Vr ol rie youd ol se Jd J) La] ao Lu Ce A cs Ly Y Las)  Jy 2 5 65 Age hihi bilans Sata anali ads Ye OR PORT A) IES: INT viruéhre dled  + ol Yl Gaia Sly lag ca NT  sy st ol eee Lolum Laat 501 LS Le ly dal pl aille is + Rus WERE  : ; * Ss ghee om Pal Gi ul 8 5  + fla Jy AI 5 vol aly le pg 5 tidy pavrlh barbatus nn Frac de de =  Jl SO apn, Ladbs p18 us Lud) Geist) oe y da le VAT gl Vie law 5 ui  Seip © 155 rhe onl pLadl 581 day bs ads, | (dl dist) db ign Lise lol by hat  siswul, hs cs as ls à C5 Los, 1 AB T 5 =| es, les Les Las pony ol oF Ly sll ei 5
5 das mé Mo ie Let a ky)  ¢ gl Lag lb Ady alle Lasalle Sel se Fil (JI gees op Gsludlc lis © ole is Ya ll  € éd ally El Era a ca  LIP POT ol + el] Ll. oe lho 5 4 beled Las AE Lo) VV ema Gage — VA  co _piSoll pganl) lin! cdl id ab GES (sab pian Lu LISE Cal  » opal aie gop pla  : gal dus alld eco  o Less gon) OS his 51 Bone cul rt 6 dadrsedl gos ALI Ll all G1S, ay à NS EL, dy 6 1)  (A pes ob phase VU poils pl bill Be eh lie plussul Jeni 0315 Dien pL  . “Lac YI Jy J Val 6 ol, L plod) juga) Lo das)  wll opi) als Gy all pasandl da, oJ eels Lely Ean ain all 25  IL 169 hol wb ods lye p lad) fl Li io YI 5 ola 5) all dy ull leas  ole dds ps)  Lt pa tN 2 pe iy Ligon ST sss) bias Lb YI 1 s  o 4 aga] a Al Jah « citer Goto LS SU od) = a  ols EE bys JS O5 JS eas os eu Jl Ilo ly puis Isle yoy p30 SUR S um oo) : DA  + Ganado gro Ce do JS pad sl
4 parcally lotion YI gm alist JV es Lo aile JS 55 sil Sa ols Luis gael Lie 5e BOL  . paid) soll  Lt ee Ar Sl lB nt RT (sn at GH oy Bn Bole AA MS IS, gi
4453)  As sll Crbrll ge Age nell lie SE ol lies + Ayu podhy Cat igs 5 ADI ond) edie ©  «Flat Shots les GS IE ally 8 PS ty 2d) oe aS Vhs 3 lst; Lu 06 — Abe  an ei, diy BI si) 4905 posed Ann lose ect, abs las adllyg © lal 0 oH Ee bo!  + MY) pl] SE pnd Lp ey Lily in Lp no ary Bull  pla Be NPL TA WW Lt ue BS Ton CS pe TJ tolt Lin fis ESD  Calpbe lai (5 slo sb Casa #5  Beg Ig dde ge His Visda Il gl aboli a billy aura pô, Mess Luis NSRP  bg] pole co pis cas ball pes LV Bid 258M pla IL pas) i oa], Yada oa 3 a  alli lll gb FL Ftd        Stell Buon WN Gl MSs LS © Lal ie 5 et pi pla  A - sad JE L 1 Sou Lisl
1G PS A Vidal acte a . A os yodlad ls  LS sde of dnt! CRS RA Se es RE  + 4551 loll) & So le LS ball duais JS
5 aac Led NS 9% ol cme Lily passed ME 51 LLG 51 lola l 05% OÙ ine Ÿ peal lie 5  grinds 4,0 } ; dl ay lala lies  p= Spd SVastl azgls © 8,00 AIG ull 5 aul busy V1 és pub) LB pe gelé pad Vs  oP) Web, JS 5 ds Etant 3 all de Lars pitino Lannoy LIL 3g ual) lie
1 Less Pl ig umd 615 dus Laye panty SmI ep 9 Fe 5 dés outed 115 0 0755 8, dk, li  LS ble 03 ll gem Sonor Lprrds oe BagSin polls (5 31 Ld) deadly los WY 4nd id ne! ol
(12.1) Mr. EL WAKIL (Egypt) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Iwishto address to you, Mr. President, on behalf of the Egyptian  delegation, sincere congratulations on your election as President of the nineteenth session of the General  Conference. May I also avail myself of this opportunity to greet through you the great and ancient nation  of Kenya, its President, Government, people and the country itself, wishing this Conference success, under  your wise leadership, in the fulfilment of its difficult tasks in an atmosphere of unity and concord.
(12.2) The fact that, thirty years after the foundation of Unesco, this Conference should be held in Africa  is a major historic event. It is tantamount in itself to a universal declaration of the decline of the colonialist  era in all its manifestations, and a denunciation of racialism in all its forms. It ushers in a new dawn in  which real equality among peoples is achieved and human rights and freedoms ensured without any distinc.  tion on grounds of race, sex, language or religion.
(12.3) I wish also to express Egypt's appreciation for the great care and the strenuous efforts with which  the Unesco Secretariat has prepared this Conference and produced its documents. In this connection, I  would like to pay tribute to Mr. Hector Wynter, Chairman of the Executive Board, who has been able, by  virtue of his wide experience, his faith in Unesco's mission and his co-operation with the difficult members,  to lead the Board's deliberations with remarkable skill and efficiency.
(12.4) Allow me to address you, Mr. Director-General, neither in your capacity as a faithful sonof Africa.  since you are now an international civil servant who bade Africans farewell on the day he was chosen by the  entire world to lead this Organization; nor in your capacity as a friend of the Third World to which you be-  long - as this would not be in harmony with your international status; but I wish to address you in response  to the speech you delivered to the Conference a few days ago. I listened to you carefully and attentively.  The contents of your speech confirmed the fact that you belong to the entire world; you belong no longer to  any particular part of it; you belong to us all. You were able to set forth all the Conference issues with  honesty, dignity, integrity and objectivity. Your approach to these issues is, in my opinion, unprecedented  in the history of international organizations. No one could envy you for what you have been through in the  last two years for the sake of Unesco, or for the difficulties you may face in the future, but the Egyptian  delegation would like to express its appreciation of, and support for, the efforts you are making to safe-  guard Unesco and to help it attain its noble objectives.
(12.5) Finally, I wish to extend my sincere greetings and warm congratulations to all the States that have  joined the Organization recently, especially Angola, whose admission was approved yesterday by our Con-  ference, hoping that the new Member States will contribute to the enrichment of Unesco's activities.
(12.6) Mr. President, I do not intend, at this early stage, to deal with the items on the agenda of the Con-  ference. I would rather confine myself to presenting to you, ladies and gentlemen, some of the ideas and  views of the Egyptian Government as regards the basic principles which should govern Unesco and the major  issues facing it. I will also comment briefly on the principal working documents.
(12.7) Firstly, our general views on the basic principles which should govern Unesco. We do not want to  turn Unesco into a battlefield, or a place for sterile attempts to outbid and outflank each other. Conversely,  we cannot accept that Unesco become an ivory tower in which members live in isolation from the peoples'  suffering and the odious crimes committed in violation of human rights. Unesco is an intergovernmental  organization and accordingly one of its first duties, closely bound up with its objectives, is to influence,  and be influenced by, the conflicts and tensions of the world. Otherwise, Unesco would be doomed to pas-  sivity, ineffectiveness and isolation. It goes without saying that Member States would not allow such ade-  cline in the status of their organization. In this connection, I would like to warn against and denounce a  dominant trend in some information media, a trend nurtured by dubious money and fostered by well-known  pressure groups, and which has come to the fore since the eighteenth session of the General Conference,  claiming that Unesco has surrendered to politicization and that some Member States are capable of obtain-  ing an automatic and spontaneous majority, even if this majority set out to prove that the earth was notround.  To these people we say that they will never be able to turn back the clock. The international organizations  have already acquired their full-fledged universal status and are now ruled by the principles of equalityand  democracy.
(12.8) Mr. President, if our aim is to put things in their right perspective, we have to act in accordance  with the Organization's Constitution. Membership of Unesco implies a legal and moral obligation to re-  spect the letter and spirit of the Organization's Constitution. This means, firstly, that each Member State  must honour its financial obligations to the Organization, since they are not grants or donations to be given  or withheld. Consequently, these obligations should not be used at all as a lever to exert pressure or io  challenge resolutions adopted by a majority of the Member States. Secondly, respect for international in-  struments will be always questioned unless the international community as a whole adopts appropriate  measures to impose severe sanctions on Member States that disregard resolutions adopted by the General  Conference and persist in their refusal to apply them. Thus the Organization would be in a position to êt-  hance its image and strengthen its credibility in the world.
(12.9) May I, Mr. President, deal next with some of the fundamental issues. Firstly, Egypt categorically  rejects any domination of man by man and any occupation of territory. It strongly condemns colonization Br  based on racial superiority as well as any ideology founded on racial prejudice. I wish to refer in partorls  to the African liberation movements and to the Palestinian liberation movement with the Palestine Liberation  Organization as its sole legitimate representative. The Palestine Liberation Organization is the voice 0  a people and the nucleus of a State. Itis our duty to emphasize, clarify and legitimize this concept.
(12.10) Secondly, we cannot turn a blind eye to the serious and c  Jerusalem, in the holy land of the revealed religions.  and call upon it to take adequate and decisive measures  character of this eternal city, disfigure its ancient and  of their authentic Arabic culture. In this connection, w  that may be taken by the Israeli authorities because of t  Unesco for many years.  ontinuing crimes committed in the city of  We put this case before the conscience of the world  to put an end to attempts todistort the historical  valuable features and deprive its Arab population  e cannot accept any transitional or tactical position  heir persistent disregard of the whole world and of
(12.11) Thirdly, as regards occupied Arab Palestinian territories, it is high time we adopted a new and  firm stand to ensure the right of the Arab population to education and culture in Sot ith their na-  tional aspirations, and to protect them against Zionist allegations designed to undermine their authenticit  as Arabs. We invoke what the Director-General has said or written on this issue. We also invoke the ;  United Nations Charter, the Constitution of Unesco, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the  IVth Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War (1949)
(12.12) Mr. President, may I now give a brief commentary on the principal working documents of this  Conference, leaving the details for the competent commissions.
(12.13) Firstly, as regards document 19 C/5, the Egyptian delegation would like to define its policy stance  here and now, and express its unconditional approval of the proposed budget ceiling: $234, 413,000. We  in Egypt believe, regardless of the temporary economic difficulties we mag face, that infernetional ce-  operation requires sacrifices at the national level. We consider, therefore, that the budget presented to  us at this session is one of sacrifice. We look forward to a quick end to this transitory crisis confronting  Unesco, after which we should subsequently aim at a new budget which should be up to the peoples' hopes  in this Organization.
(12.14) We hope, however, that further efforts will be made to regroup certain activities in projects charac-  terized by a greater degree of concentration and harmony, which should thus be more effective. We fully  welcome the formulation of the programme and budget according to the criteria of the objectives contained  in document 19 C/4, and not on the basis of specific activities and sectors, and I will refer to this later.
(12.15) As for 19 C/5, allow me to make two observations. Firstly, I had the honour of being a member  of the Administrative Council of the International Fund for the Promotion of Culture established by a resol-  ution emanating from the eighteenth session of your August Conference. In all honesty, this Fund should  not be repetition, an extension or a shadow of Unesco, but rather a complementary organ, having its own  financial and administrative identity. Accordingly, I hope that the nineteenth session of the General Con-  ference will not overlook the aims sought by the eighteenth session. I appeal for the material and moral  consolidation of this Fund so as to enable it carry out its noble tasks of cultural promotion throughout the  world.
(12.16) My second observation is that youth is a temporary stage in the life of the individual but it is a  permanent phenomenon in the life of nations. All statistics indicate that the proportion of youth is made  higher than half of the whole population in developing countries. Thus we should not approach the youth  question as a problem, but rather as a continuing phenomenon. I believe that to link youth activities to the  social sciences only does not reflect a global approach to youth affairs. Unesco should work with youth and  for youth in all its different sectors of education, culture, social sciences, natural sciences and information.  Unesco should be wide open for the rising generations so as to allow them to participate actively in moulding  the world of tomorrow, and in getting rid of the manifestations of violence which have overwhelmed our con-  temporary society.
(12.17) Turning now to document19 C/4, the Egyptian delegation reiterates its full approval of the principle  of programming by objectives on the basis of specific sectors. I would like to pay tribute to the greatefforts  which must have gone into the preparation of this document, appearing for the first time in its new form, es-  pecially its theoretical and historical aspects. We also wish to express our admiration of the flexible nature  of this document, and the experimental approach it adopts. However, this new experiment is bound to face  many difficulties in the period of transition frm programming by sectors to programming by objectives.  This change should not be a mere formal or superficial process. The programme should be prepared on  the basis of the content and essence of the objectives, not on the basis of their titles. We hope, therefore,  that in the future the programme and budget document will be a real reflection of the content of the objectives  of the Medium- Term Plan. All this requires further study and reflection to concentrate and reformulate the  programme as a whole, and to bring about a radical change in the structure of the Secretariat. Since we  have started this experiment, let us pursue it, and I am sure that we have chosen the right direction, that  of programming by objectives.
(12.18) Finally, as concerns the new international international economic order, it would be superfluous to  underline Unesco's role in this field. The Director-General has presented to us a valuable and original docu-  ment on this question entitled "Moving towards change. The establishment of a just economic and social  system that would govern our contemporary world requires first-and foremost the existence of a common  political will that believes in translating ideas into concrete and positive acts, otherwise we should go on  raising the slogan of the new international economic order until it became a permanent item on our agendas.  There is a gap that separates countries enjoying the privilege of prosperity and progress from countries  overwhelmed by poverty and backwardness. This gap threatens the whole world and poses grave dangers  for the security of the international community.
(12.19) Mr. President, before concluding, allow me to express, on behalf of Egypt, its President, Govern-  ment and people, our appreciation for and pride in the visit that the Executive Board of Unesco paid to our  country last October. I am not going to deal here with our national achievements as this would be irrel-  evant to our current debate on the Organization's general policy. I would just ask your permission to quote  a paragraph from a decision adopted by the Executive Board on the occasion of its visit to Egypt. It reads:  ; i Ts] i i k undertaken by the Egyptian Government and  The Executive Board /Is] impressed by the outstanding work un y 4 : ; =  people for the preservation, restoration and presentation of the valuable cultural sites and property, as we  + + + n  as the genuine and dynamic social progress .
12 (12.20) Mr. President, in its stupendous development towards an all-embracing scientific revolut  contemporary world should realize that science is neutral and abstract by nature and can thus be h  either for good or for evil. It is our primary task in Unesco to mobilize the potentialities of scien  well-being of mankind, and to orientate all our programmes and resolutions towards the protectio  rights. Thank you Mr. President.  ion, oùr  arnesseq  Ce for the  nof human
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of the Arab Republic of Egypt, and I call upon H.E. Mr. IN. Zemskoy  Vice- Minister for External Relations, Chairman of the National Commission for Unesco and head of the  delegation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
14.1 T-xn 3EMCKOB (Cons CoeTckux CourarucTHYECKHX Pecny01ux):  T-u Mpencexarens, npexae BCero 4 XOdy CKA3aTB, UTO COBETCKAas Jelerauus Takke BHpaxaer  co6onesnoBanne HH1OHesHÜäcKOMy Hapoay B CBA3H CO CTHXHHHBIM GeJ1CTBHEM.,
14.3 Bmepssie B cBoeñ neropun D'eneparbHas KonbepeHun4a WHECKO nposoauTcs Ha ahpukanckoï  seme, B cronuue abpuxanckoro rocyxapersa - Kexun. MsI NpHIaem STOMY COnBMOe NPHHLANHANSHO  sxHauenne. Hame counarnernueckoe rocyJTapcTBO C MEPBEIX AHEH ero CYNECTBOBAHHS PeNHTENbHO N0]-  nepxHBaro U no1nepxHBAaeT GOpROy HAPOXOB A®PUKH 3a CBOAONY H HESABHCHMOCTE, MPOTHBHMNEPHANNS--  Ma H KONOHHA/IBHOTO THeTa. OT Tex BpeMeH, Korja eue Gonee nonyBeka HasanHaute CONNaIneTHueCKOe  TOCYJAPCTBO BINEPBHIE BHICTYNHIO HA MeXx1yHapouHoï apeHe, a abpukaHcKHH KOHTHHEHT LeJUKOM elle  GBI IO TOCMOACTBOM KONOHHSATOPOB, B APXHBAX COXPAHHJICH HHTEPECHHÀ JOKYMEHT = IpeI0KeH:s  COBeTCKOMY NpasnTenbcrBy OT TOTAamHero HapogxHoro Komuccapa [no HHOCTPAHHEIM Aenam I'.B. Unue-  puHa. B 9TOM NOKyMEHTe, B YACTHOCTH, yKas3hlBajaoch, YTO COBETCKHÀ C0103 NONXEH J0OUBATECH,YTo~
14.4 H ceropus, korza appukaHCKHe rocyaperBa He TOJIBKO YYACTBYIOT B TAKOM BAXHOM MeXAyHar  porHom hopyme, kak I'eHepanpHas KoH®epeHuna IDHECKO, Ho u cama Kouhepenuns mpoxozuT B 0J-  HOM H3 9THUX rOCYAPCTB, MEI C TIIYOOKHM yJOBJI€TBOPEHHEeM MOBTOPHEM JIeHHHCKOe CJI0BO ""Bepuo! ",
3eH, YUTOOBI! NPONSONNH KOPEHHEIE CIBHTH, CHCIABNHE BO3MOXHEIM H IIPOBEEHME Halled CceccuH Ha  a®puxanckoñ Teppuropun. Bops6a sa nonnoe ocBo600oxnexnne A®puKkH OT KOJOHHaAIU3Ma NPOAONKACTICH.  CoBceM Heganeko orcoma, B Poresun, Hamubuu n MAP KOnOHN3aTOps, KaK H3BECTHO, UEILIAIOTCA
3a KaXJblH TIOÏM 3aXBaueHHOH HMH SEMJH, HCINOJNB3Y4 BCE CPENCTBA = OT NONNTHYECKHX HHTPHT, HMPOT  BOKaIHH H yOHHäCTB H3-3a yrJIa 10 MACCOB»X paccTpeioB a®pukaHIeB, YTOO5 OT JANUTL CBOE OKOHHA™  TeJIBHOE NOPAXKEHHE.
14.6 ToOnbKO YTO MBI CHLINANH O HOBBIX NPECTYIICHUAX HMIEpHarnsMa. MOXHO JIM B TAKHX yCHOBHAX  NpHHUMaT5 BCepbes ronoca Tex, KTO paTyer NPOTHB Tak Hassisaemoï "nomurnsaunn" IMHECKO? Mo-  XEM JIN MBbl MOSBOJNHTB cebe NOBEPHYTBCH CHHHON K GoppOe ahpuxanckux = U He TOJIBKO ad puKaHCKUX =  HapoJIOB MPOTHB OCTATKOB KONOHHANH3MA H NPOTHE MOCIEACTBHÉ KOJOHHAIN3MA H COCPEI0TOYHTh CBOE  BHHMaHHé Ha "HenonnrnueckHx" BONpocax ?  b - H BHIOI  BETCTBHH
14.7 OTRET MOXET OsITb TONBKO OJHH; HET K eue pas Her. OHECKO npuapaHa BHIOJHAT  HATH B MOJIHOW Mepe, 0e3 HCKyCCTBEHHBIX OrpaHHYEHHHÉ - CBO TJIABHYID O6H3AHHOCTB B COOT  C YcTaBoM: BCeMU CBONMH CHIAMH, BCEM CBONM ABTOPHTETOM CIOCOGCTBOBATH yKpPenIeHKIOo MHPA i  MeXAyHapo HOH GesonacTHOCTH, OKOHYATEIBHOÏ IHKBHJALNK KONOHHAIN3MA H pacHsMa BO BCEX HX  ®opMax H NposBIeHHAX, CONEUCTBOBATB WHPOKOMY PpasBHTHIO Ky1IbTYPHOTO COTPYAHHYECTBA B nxreper  cax BCeX CTpaH H HAporoB. Ma! CunTaem, “TO HMeHHO C Takux nosuunä D'eneparsHas KoH®epeHuHä  IOEECKO Hu nonxHa noyxoInTb K pemenno Kax1oro U3 BOMPOCOB, CTOAIIUX Ha ee MOBECTKE nus. C sTHX  MO3HIHH MOCHENOBATENBHO NOIXOINT K HUM U COBETCKAas nererauns.  xoxeuxo, 0y~ 14.8 Bonpocor Ha MOBECTKE 1x4 Hamel ceccun MHOTO. OHH nonnexar paccMoTrpeHHD H,  pemexna KO” AYT paccMOTpeHsI. Ho, Kak H BO BCHKOM ere, CPeIn HHX €CTh OCHOBHbIE, HCXOJHBIe, OT  TOPPIX MO CYIECTBY SABHCHT PpearnsauNs BCEX OCTANBHEX.  por
530      HOCTH I/Isi COKPAIEHNAI ACCHTHOBAHNÜÉ HA paspymnTensHoe opyxne Hu Ha cone  neubrH HeMajble - KaK H3B6CTHO H5IHE B MHpe pacxonyerca Gonee 300 MULT  Ha OTH Lend, Her COMHEHHA, YTO 4aCTh COKOHOMJICHHEX TAKUM 06pasom cp  HONHHTENBHO HCMONBSOBAHA UIs Hy KJ obpasoBanus, HayKH H KYJbTYPH H B TOM 4HCIIE HA Ky IbTYPHBIH np HayuHBIE OOMEH Mexay TocylapcTBamu. B sTom CllyHdae MBI C BaMU IOTYYHIH Os fail He TONBKO BEIIONHUTE, HO M [I€PEBINONHUTH HAMM NPOrpamMEI MEXAYHAPOAHOTO COTPyAHUYECTBA.,
14.10 Ha nponcxoyaumex B 9TH ane XXXI ceccuu T'enepansnoñ Accam61en OOH Corerexnü Cons BH A~ BHHY PA BAXHEIX NPeJVIOXEHHH = TaKHX, Kak 3aKkmouenne BcemupHoro JHOTOBOPa O HerlpuMeHeHHH  CHINE B MEXAYHAPOHHEIX OTHOMEHHAX, O COKXPAMEeHNK U NOC Ayo ei JIHKBHJAUNH A1EPHOTO OPYXHA, 0 sanpemexHHH HOBBIX SRACE H CHCTEM OPYXHA MACCOBOTO YHHATOXEHHA, O COKPANIeHNN BOOPyXEHHEIX  CHI H OOBIUHBIX BOOPyXEHHH H JpyTHe. Cosercknñ Cons n Ha sroñ ceceun DexeparsbHoñ Accam6ren  OOH npoyonxaer NOOHBATBCA peannsannu CBOCTrO NpPemoxeHnA O cokpaueHnH Ha 10 npou. BOEHHEBIX
604XeTOB rOCYJAPCTB = MOCTOAHHBIX YTeHOB CoBera BesonacHocru OOH u o BBICNCHHH YaCTH COKO=  HOMJIEHHBIX CPEJICTB Ha OKASaHNe NOMONN Pa3BUBANIMUMCS CTPAHAM. HeTpynHo BHJers, 4TO nporpecc B ene pasopyxeHna, a, SHAYUT, 1 PasPAJIKH B LielIOM co3zan 651 Gonee Graronpuaruse YCHOBHA ITA  pemeHHs OJHON H3 BAXHOHIHX MEX AYHAPOAHBIX 3ajay - NONHOÏ IUKBHJAUNH BCEX OCTATKOB CHCTEMEI  KOJIOHHAIBHOTO YTHETEHHA, YIEMIIEHUA PABHONPABHA H HESABHCHMOCTH HApooB, BCEX OYarOB KOJNO-  HuarmsMa H pacHsMa. AKTYarbHOCTB 9TOH SaJaYN Guia CO BCeñ curoù HMOXMEPKHYTa D'eHeparrbHEBIM  cekperapeM IlexTparrbHOro Komurera Kommynucrnueckoñ Maprun CCCP JI  gpmeMcs HeyaBHo XXV cresne IlapTuu.  pxanne apmuñ, a sTo  HAPTOB [NOJIIAPOB B TON  €ZCTB Moria 6b 6BITH 70-  JM. BpexHeBbM Ha cocro-
14.12 Hexo14 H3 CBOETO rayOOKOro y6ex1eHus B KUSHEHHOH BAXHOCTH H peanbHocTH Tux coo6ôpaxe-  nuit, Cosercxnä Cons BHec Ha paccMorpeune HbIHemMHeH cecenn D'enepansnoï kon®epenunn IDHECKO  sonpoc "Pons IDHECKO B cosgaHux OTaronpHATHOTO OONECTBEHHOTO MHEHUS MIA IpekpalleHH4 DOHKH  BOOPpyXeHHH, COKPAII@HHA HAKONIEHHBIX SAMACOB OPYXHA, CHCTEMATHYECKOTO CHHXEHHA BOCHHEX pac-  XOJI0B, As Nepexoxa K pasopyxexnno" (myuKT 72 MOBECTKH AHA).
671aTONPUHATHOTO OOIECTBEHHOTO MHEHUS B MOJIB3Y HEOTHOXHOCTH PeIleHUs Npo6ieM pasopy KeHus .  B aroñ cBasu IDHECKO morna 6b BO3BHCHTH CBO TOJOC B [0Jb3y CO3blBa Bcemupuoñ KOH epeHLun
10 pasopyxeHHID, OPTaHW30BAThH MHPOKHE DOPYMH NesTerreñ HayKH H KyJabTyphl, AKTHBH3HPOBATB Hayu-  HO-HCCHENOBATENBCKYD JEATENBHOCTB B 9TOÏË OGTaCTH. Nererauns CCCP Brpaxaer Hanexy, 4To npen-  CTABJIeHHHÜ COBETCKHM COID30M NPOEKT pesomounn (xoxymeur 19 C/110) Hager mupoxyo nogupexky  Nererauni Ha HbHemHeÂ ceccuu l'enepanbHoñ konhdepexunn.
14.15 B nocxannu IIpencenatens Cosera Muunerpos CCCP A.H. KocsirnHa yYaCTHHKAM HbIHEIIHeH  lesarHaguaroñ ceccun I’ eHepanbHON KOH epeHuunu ormeuarocs, uro "IOHECKO kak ojHa U3 KpyrHEIX  H aBTOPHTETH»IX OpraHusanuii cucreMsl OOH BHOCUT CBO BKJIAJ B JEIO PASPHIKH HANPSIKEHHOCTH H  yKpeneHns MexayHapomHoro Mupa'. 3a nepnou cBOero TPHAUATHIETHETO cymecTBoBanus IDHECKO  NPOBEJIA HEMAJNO IOJEe3HbIX MeponpHAaTHH B rene opraHnsauun Mex1yHapoIHOoro Hay4HOro H KyJbTypPHO=  TO cOTpyaHHuYecTBa, OHA He pas npuHnMara BaXHbIE H MONE3HHE PEmeHHA MOJIMTHYECKOTO XapaKrepa  MIO BONPOCAM GoppO5I 3a MUP HU sa pasopyxeHne, MO BONPOCAM COJEÜCTBHA NOCTHXEHHIO He3aBUCHMO=  CTH KONOHHAJIBHBIMH CTPAHAMH H Haporamu, mo Gops6e c pacusMoMm H anapren1oH H T.1, Ha coed  Npomnoï ceccuu D'eneparnbHas KOHDepeHINS OTKIUHKHYJIACh Ha COBETCKYID HHHIHATHBY H IPHHSIA MPHH-  UNIHANBHO BaXxHylo pesonouuio 06 yuacrun DHECKO B npasaHOBaHUK 30-mern4 no6e15 Hay TUTIe~  POBCKHM (ha mMU3MOM .
14.16 DHECKO NpUHSIa, Kak HSBECTHO, aKTUBHOE YYACTHE B HOATOTOBKE NpemroxeHHH ais HGTOPH=  deckoro Coremanns no GesonacHoern H corpyxnnuecrBy B EBpome, a Tenepb MOXET BHECTH CBOH O7  CTOHHEIÜ BKJIA]N B Ocymecraenne pemexnä CopemaHns. Ilpuusrsiñ 1 aBrycra 1975 r. B XeJbCHHKH 3a-  KIIOYHTENBHEIÉ AKT SBISETCSs xopomum OPHEHTHPOM H ans WHECKO B mrane mupokoro MexayHapou-  HOTO H perHOHamBHOro corpyyunuecrBa. IIpumexnTenBHO K IOHECKO, Kak H APyruM Me NDARAICARE  CTB@HHBIM OPraHNSAINAM, B 3aKIIOUHTEIBHOM AKTE XejbCHHKA c®opmymnposana pekoMeHaauus Gonee
90d eKTUBHO HCHONB3OBATR HMEOINECA MNOTEHLINANBHEE BOSMOXHOCTH A/S YI1YYICHHA obmena nH®op-  Mauneñ H ONBITOM MyTeM ÿuaCTHA B KOHKPETHEX NPOTpaMMax Mex1yHAPoTHOTro HayYHO-TEXHHYECKOTO  COTPpyyHNYeCTBA H, B YACTHOCTH, B mporpamme IOHUCHUCT, ynensa ocoboe BHKMAHHe BONPOCAM ONpPe-  AeTeHna Hanpasrenni pasBHTrus nH®opMmaunn, TexHHYeCKOro KOHCYJIBTHPOBAHHA, HH®OPMALHOHHOTO
00ecneuenus u oGpaGorku JAHHHIX.B Ilpoexre MPOrpaMME! H 6 mxera IOHECKO Ha 1977-1978 roue  (xoxymeur 19 C/5) conepxurcs pan HAMETOK B OGTacTH OpraHnsaunn epponeñckoro corpyJHHYecTBa  (sanpumep, mposexeune B 1978 r. 2-# Kondepexunn MHHHCTPOB NO HayKe H TeXHUKE JUL crpax EBporlbI  H Cerepuoñ AMepuKH; MeponpusiTHs IDHECKO B 061acru oxpyxanumeñ cpezsl; MepOonpuaTHs IOHECKO  O nocrynuT  B O6NaCTH o6pasopauns n kKynbTYpH).Onnaxo sToro,sce-TaxH, AaneKo He nocrarouno.lOHEC KO nocrynuT,  HO HameMmy MHeHWI0, MpABHIBHO, €CJIM OHA OyneT H BOPeAb MPOBOAUTDH COOTBETCTBYDIIHE MEPONPHATHA  B lyXe pexomexyauni 3akmoYnTe1nbHOTO akTa XerbcHHKH.
12 14.17 YuuTHBas NONOXUTENBHEI OINBIT YHACTHA IOHECKO B NOATOTOBKE H npoBeeHnn obmeesponeji  CKOTO cosemanns, 6510 651 merrecoo6pasHo, uyTo6s1 MHECKO ob6paTuia BHUMaHue Ha BaXHOCTE of-  CyX[eHHs BONPOCOB, CBSI3aHHBIX C PASBHTHEM COTPY AHHYCCTBA H o6ecneuennem Gesonactocry B Asyy  Ha OCHOBE COBMECTHEIX yCHJINÜ TOCYTAPCTB 9TOTO KOHTHTEHTA.
14.19 PaBHsIM o6pasom CosBeTckuii Cons BEICTyNaeT 3a MUPOKOe PaBHONPaBHE, MEXAYHAPOIHOE co-  TPYAHHYECTBO B OGIACTH OGpasoBaHNa, HayKH H KyJIBTypsI. [IpunaBas BAXHOCTB TaKOMy COTDYIHHye-  cTBy, CCCP BHec Ha paccmorpenne Hacrosueïñ ceccuu l'eneparbHoï Kon®epexunn BONnpoc "Pagyo-  NpaBHOE H B3aUMOBHITOAHOE KyJIBTYPHOE H Hay4HOE COTPYAHHYECTBO - BAXHBIH QaKTOD yKpemrenus  MHPa, APyx65I H B3aUMONOHMMAaHHs MEXIy HapojaMu' (IyHKT 73 NOBECTKH AH).
14.20 PaspnTue MeXIyHAPpoIHEIX KYJIBTYPHEIX CBs3EeH, OCOOEHHO B IOCHEIHHE TOZBI, moKkasaxo, uTOo  OHM CTAJIN BAXHEIM COCTABHBIM 911€MEHTOM CHCTEMEI MeEXAYHAPpOIHEX OTHOMEHN!H, CTAJN ATPATE 3Ha-  YHTE@NBHYD POIL B AYXOBHOM PpasBHTHH BCErO YeOBEUECTBA, Bonpochl PAS3BHTHSA KYJNBTYPHEX CBI3ei  B HHTepecax yKpelJeHHs MHpa H IpyxO05! Mex/Jbl HaponaMmu He pas OsI1u NpexMeTOMm O6CyXACHHS Ha  COSHIBA@MsIX Opranñsauneñ MexIpaBHTEIBCTBEHHEIX PETHOHANBHBIX DOpyMax MO MOJUTHKE B O6TACTH  o6pasosauns, HayKH, KyJbTyphl H HH®opMaunH, Kak H3BECTHO, 4 HOAOPA C.T. ucnonHsercs 10 ner co  must npunsatus IDHECKO B o3HaMeHoBaHue 20-neTus Oprannsaunn " exrapaunn IPUHLKIIOB MexX/yHa-  POJHOTO KyJIbTyPHOTO COTPyAHHUecTBa'. B 9TOH CBASH MNPENCTABNHETCH BINONHE ONPABJAHHEIM paccMo-  Tpexnne BONpoca O KyJAbTYPHOM COTPyJHHYUECTBE Ha HacTosquex ceccun l'eneparsHoñ KOH epeHuun c  IerrbD MONBENEHHA HTOTOB OcyNecrBreHns Iexrapaunn, 0606mexns panee NPUHSTHIX pemennñ IOHECKO  HO 3TOMY BONpOCy H MpHUAaHUs eMmy GONBMETO SHAYEHNA H IEJEYCTPEMIEHHOCTH, 4YTO COOTBETCTByeT  nyearam H NpuUHUUNaM Hamed Opraxnnsaunn.
14.21 YuuTeiBas, YTO B3aUMHOE O3HAKOMJIEHHE C JOCTHXCHHAMH KYJIBTYPhI BCEX HAPOHOB COAEHCTByeT  yKpenneHno IpyKO6bl H BSAHMOMNOHHMAHHA MeX1y Haponamu, mererauxs CCCP nonarana: 65! merecoo6-  PpasHsIM, 4YTOOH l'enepanbHas KonhepeHuHA MOITBEPAHNA CHIY OCHOBOMONATAIONHX MPHHINNOB, Ha KO-  TOPEIX NONXHO GasHPOBATBCH ocymecTriasiemMoe MHECKO mex1yHaponHoe KymBTYPpHOE H HaydHOe co-  TPYJHHYECTBO - NPaBO KAX1OTO Hapoja CBOGO1HO BHÔHPATB H PA3BHBATb CBOH COIHANBHEE H KYJNbTYP-  Hble CHCTEMBI H YCTaAHABJHBATb CBOH 3AKOHEI H NpaBuaa B OGNACTH MNPOCBEMEHHH, HAYKH, KYJbTYPHI i  HH®OpMauHH; MpaBO Kax/Oro Hapoma OCyMeECTBISATB MO CBOEMY YCMOTPEHHD CBOE COINHANBHOC H Kylb=  TypHoe pa3BHUTHE; COOJNILIEHHE MNPHHIHIMIOB CYBEPeHHTeTa, HeBMelaTenbCTBa BO BHYTPEHHHE era, Noi-  HOTO PaBEHCTBA H BSAHMHOÏ BEITOAHI PY OCYMECTBICHHN MX AYHAPOIHOTO KYNBTYPHOTO H HAyUHOTO  COTpyJHHYECTBA.
14.22 IMosBonbre MHE BHPA3HTb HaJEXIy Ha TO, UTO yuacTHHKH l'eneparnsHoñ KondepexHurH NoxIepxaT  MperroxeHHsä CCCP IIpoeKT pesorouuu MO STOMy BOIPOCY, HCXOXS H3 TOTO, YTO 3TO MOXET ABHTECA  BaXHBIM ®aKTOpoMm yKkpermenus Mupa (1oK.19 @/111).
14.23 Tocnonux IIpecexareïrb, H3 yTBEPXICHHOÏ HA IHAX NOBECTKH IHS BUAHO, UTO TEKymas CECCHA  Texeparbuoñ kondepexnunu IMHECKO 06cyxuT pan BaXHEX H AKTYANBHEIX BONPOCOB, MpeACTABIANOUNX  nHTepec Aas Gonbmoro uncra cTpaH. K nx Yucily OTHOCATCH TAKHE MYHKTEI NOBECTKH HA, Kak BHINONHE"  HUE pesonounn BOceMHagquaroñ ceccuu D'enepanbHoñ Kondepeunu o BKIane IDHECKO B neo Mupa i ee  samauax mo COZEHCTBHIO OCYMECTBIEHNO MpaB YerroBeKa H INKBHKAUNH KOJOHHAIU3MAa H pacuaMa, J0lr  TOCPOYHAA nporpamma Meponpusa Tui IMHECKO no coxeñcrano yKkpernneHno MHPpa; paspaGorKa MpoeKTa  Bceo6meñ nexrapaunn o pace H pacossx npeupaccyuKkax n npoekra Ilexrapaunu 06 OCHOBHBIX IMPHHUNT  Max HCNOJNB3OBAHNA CPEACTB MACCOBOÀ HH®OPMAUNH IJ YKPEIUIEHHs MHpa, Mex1yHapoxHoro B3@HMOT  MOHHMAHN# H 1s GopbOsI C NpONAraHAON BOWHBI, C PACHU3MOM H anaprenom. Kak MI IONATAËM, obcy-  XICHHE STHX BONPOCOB NO3BOAMT D'exepanbHoñ KoHdepennun IMHECKO npuHsTh TaKHe pemenusi, Koto  prie 6ynyT coneñcTBoBaTb yKPEIUIEHHIO MHpa H Mex1yHapornoïñ 6e30macHOCTH.
14.25 Xopomo usBecTHo, uTO, OTarogap4 ycHIn4M MHOTUX TOCYJAPCTB, B TOM YHCJE H CoBeTcKoro  Corsa, BrpaGoTaHa OCHOBA AIX yCTAHOBJIEHHS MHPA B TOM paiioHe. OTO - BHIBOJ HIPAHNBCKUX i  CO Bcex apabCcKux TeppuTopHi, OKKyMHPpOBAHH»IX B 1967 r., ynonerBopenne saKOHHEIX HauMoHanbHH  TpeboBanuii apabeckoro Hapoga IlarrecruHH, BKIIOYAA €T0 HEOTBEMNEMOE NpAaBO HA COSHAHHÉ gone  HOTO TOCYJapeTBa; STO NPEeAOCTaBJIEHUE MeXAyHAPOIHEX rapaHTHÿ OCesonacHocTH BCEM rocyHapoTBa  Bruxnero BocToka, BKJoYas Hspannb.
14.26 B csxsu c nyuxrom 11 nopecrkn aux "Bian IOHECKO B yoranonnenne HOBOTO MEXIYRAPOLO™  TO SKOHOMHYeCKOTrO HopauKa! nenerauns CCCP xorena Gsr npuBneus BunMaHne ydacTHUKOB T'euepals  Ho koxhepexunn K 3aspnennio COBETCKOTO npasurembersa "Ilepeorpoñxa mexayHaponusx OKOHOMA  YHeCKHX OTHONMEHHH", cAeNaHHOMy Ha rekymeñ XXXI ceccnn D'enepanbnoñ Accam6nen OOH. B 9TOM
532     Sa4p1eHnH mpapHTeïIBcTBAa CCCP Gra BCECTODPOHHE H3HOXeHa NMOBULHST COBETCKOTO Consa no xaHHo-  My BaXHOMY BONpocy. B 3asBnennn TOBOPUTCS, uro "Copererni CoW3,-pyKoBoJcTByACE CBONM Hens- MEHHBIM XYPCOM Ha ynpodeHHe MHpa, Ha osToposmenne BCEH CHCTEMsI Me XIyHapPOJHBIX SKOHOMUHUYEC =  Kkux OTHONEHHH, MOCHENOBATENBHO BHCTYMACT 3a UX Hepecrpoñky Ha neMmokparnueckoñ n cnpanegn- poñ ocHose". B 3a4Bnexnn cHpaBexIHBO yKa3HBACTCS Ha IPAMYID CBA3B MEXIy pemexnem npoGrem  pasopyXeHus H MexIyHAaporHoù GesonacHocru u He PECTPOAKOH Me x1yHapOnHEX 9KOHOMHYECKUX OTHO= menu. B 3axBJIeHHN OTMeUaeTcs, 4To "nanbneÿmee nponsuxenne BNepez B ere nonnrnueckoï H BO- no paspaaKH, UMelomee NePBOCTENeHHOe SHAYeHHE JIS yYKpenneHnx Bceobmero Mupa, 6ymeT B TO  xe BpeMs GOMOUCTEOBATE HOPMAJMSAUHH MHPOBOTO SKOHOMHYECKOTO NONOXEHNT. B cBOD ouepezb mnpo-  rpecc B chepe mnepecTpoäkH MexIyHAPONHHX 9KOHOMHYECKHX OTHOMEHUH MOCHAYXHT BKHANOM B yrny6-  nexne H pacunpexne paspaaku Hanp4axeHHocrn",
14.27 Ms okasanu Gp IJIOXyI0 ycnyry Hey MEXAyHapOLHOTO COTPYAHRYECTBA B obnacTu OGpasoBaHus,  HayKH H KyJIbTÿPpsI B pamKkax IOHECKO, ecu 651 o6ommu Monsannem HeJOCTATKH, KOTOPHIE UMEIOTCS  B JexTerbHOcru OHECKO Booône u B npoekre ee mporpaMMsl n Goxxera Ha ouepexHoñ ABYXJ/IE THU  ne prom.
14.28 OruspsiBasch Ha npouneHHe# OHECKO nmyTs, xoTenocs 6b co Bceñ OTKPOBEHHOCTHI CKasaTh  cerozns: MHECKO moka HCHONB3yeT NANEKO He BCE BO3MOXHOCTH JIS 9) HEeKTUBHOTO U Ha JIE Xa mero  BHINOJIH@HHA €10 CBOEH OCHOBHON yCTaBHON samaux - ykperenne Bceo6mero mupa NYTEM pasBHTHA  MeXIyHapOAHOTO COTPYAHHYECTBA B chepe cBoeñ Komnerenumn. Hameñ Opraunsaumu NPeACTOUT eme  MHOTOE CHCTATD H JUII COBOPNCHCTBOBAHHA CBO@ÙÜ NPAKTHYECKOÏ NEATEIBHOCTH NO BHIMONHEHHIO MPO-  TpaMMHEIX MPOEKTOB B OGHACTH :06pasoBanus, Haykn H KyabTypbl. Hanmune B nporpamme DHECKO  bonbmoro “nca NpoeKToB H U3BECTHOE AYOINPOBAHNE HEKOTOPHIX U3 HUX OCTPO CTABHT BONPOC O HEO6-  XOJHMOCTH KOHLEHTPALHH GI0AXETHEX CPEACTB H ycHTHÜÀ annapara Cexperapuara IMHECKO Ha BsINMON-  HeHHe KPyIHEIX IPOCKTOB H AOJTOCPOYHEIX MEPCHEKTHBHHX IPOTPAMM, KOTOPHIE ObIIH Obl NONESHE BCEM  rocyJapeTBaM-4IeHaM, K Yncxy Takux NporpamMM, sachyxnBaomux Gonbmen KoHUeHTpaun ycunymñ,  MOXHO OblI0 OBI OTHECTH Me XAYHAPONHHE MNPOIPAMME NO OXpaHe OKpyxalueñ Cpe bl ("YHerosex u 6Ho-  chepa"), Hocnemosanno MHposoro OKeaHa, HayvHoï rHApororun, reonornueckoï KoppersunH, YTO  OTBEYAËT HHTEPECAM BCEX CTPAaH.
14.29 OxHnM n3 KPYNHBIX HeOCTATKOB IIpoeKTa mporpaMMsl Ha 1977-1978 rr. aanserca upesmepHoe  o6n1me pasposHeHHEIX, HE HOCTATOYHO CKOOPAUHUPOBAHHAIX MPOCKTOB, BHINOJHEHNE KOTOPHX TpeGyeT  Gonpmux CHOAXETHEX ACCHTHOBAHHÀ H yCHNNÜÀ yYEHBIX MHOTHX CTpaH. BrispIBaer TaKKe GecHokoÏcTBO  HamernBmeecs B DHECKO HeonparaHHoe OXHOCTOPOHHEE YBJIeYEHHE PETHOHAIBHBIM MOAXOAOM K pe-  NeHHD KPYNMH;X Me XAYHAPONHEIX IMPOCKTOB, B KOTOPHX BAHHTEPECOBAHEI HE TOJIBKO OTACNBHHE TOCY-  Japersa, He TOJBKO KaKOÏ-1n60 OT1enbHEÀ pañon MHpa, a Bce CTpaHsl Mupa. MoxHo 65110 Gs1 yka-
3aTb Ha OTCYTCTBHE B nporpamme IDHECKO crepxHeBoñ Me XIMCLUIUIMHAPHON NporpaMMsI B O6TacTH  COLHAJIBHEIX HayK, KOTOpas OXBAT»IBAJIA Obl BOCIHHO NEATEIBHOCTL IOHECKO B Takux BaxHEX OOTA-  crix, Kak Gops6a 3a Mup, pasopyxenne, saumra IpaB yYenoseka, coxeñcrane IDHECKO nepecrpoñ-  Ke Me X1yHaPOHEIX SKOHOMHYECKHX OTHONMEHHH H T.1.
14.32 B Bonpocax kaposoñ nomuruxkn CoserckHä C003 HCXONUT H3 TOTO, TO MAKCHMAJIBHO mHpoKkoe  IPeACTABHTE/IBCTBO TOCyAapcTB-WIeHOB B Cexperapuare IOHECKO, OCHOBaHHOE Ha CIIPABEAIHBOM  reorpahnueckom pacrpezeseHun NOCTOB, SBJSETCS OCHOBOÀ AJ yCHEIIHOTO O®yHKLIHOHHPOBAHHA  IOHECKO kak opraunsanum MexIyHapoxHoro COTpyAHHYeCTBa B obnacTax ee KOMIETEHLHH.
14.33 P-H Mpencexarers, rocnoga, B Hau BEK BENNYAÜIUX HAYMHO-TEXHHYGCKHX OTKPHITHHÉ H Ky/Ib=  TYPHBIX JOCTHXEHHH, B BEK OBJAJEHHA ATOMHOH 9HEPprHeñ, B BEK OCBOCHHA KOCMOCA BCE Gonee rpos-  HYID ONACHOCTB CyIBOE oTux mocruxeunä H CyAbbe caMOoro YerroBeuecTBa COSTACT ycKopHNIancH ToH-  Ka BOOpyxexus. Ilosromy GopsGa sa coxpanenne M ynpoyenne MHpa, IIPOTHB pasBAGHBAHNA HMIE pHa =  JH3MOM TJIOGAJIBHEX BOËH H JIOKAJBHEIX KOH@IMKTOB BCE Gompue npuobpeTaeT oco6y1 ocrpory H aKTy-  AJIBHOCTB. COTHH mnunnnonos moxeñ nocrapnin HeJaBHO CBON MOANHCH MON HOBBIM CTOKTOJIBMCKHM  BO33BaHWEM, KOTOpoe mpussBaer BCEX J0JeH 1o0poñ BONH, BCE HAPONH OOBEAHHHTE CBOH yonnua B )  Gops6e sa Npekpamexne TOHKH Boopyxennñ, sa pasopyxexne, sa CKopeHmnH COSEIB BcemnpHoñ KOH  depexnnn no pasopyxenun. Hooe CTOKrOIBMCKO® BOSSBAHHE NPOXHKTOBAHO TJ1YGOKHM GecroKoÏïcTBOM  sa 6ynymee BCEro YerroBeYuecTBa, sa CYABÔEL COSIAHHOÏ UM LMBHJIH3AUHH.
12 14.34 Copcem nexapxo B nurepsso Ji Apauuysckoro TeJeBUASHUS l'eneparbun ceKperaps IIK KIIce  Jeonnx Hnbuu Bpexnes sassua: "Ilarañre KoukpeTHee NOCMOTPHM, “TO HECET C coboi pasp=gka,  OTo nyTrb OT KOHMPOHTALUN K COTPYAHHYECTBY, OT yrpos H Op4aIaHuSE OpyxHeM K pemexnn CHOPHEIX  BONPOCOB MYTEM MEPpeTOBOPOB H B UGJIOM Nepecrpoñka Me XAYHA POAHBIX OTHOMEHHÀ Ha 3AOpoBsIx Hawg  JIaX MHPHOTO COCYHeCTBOBaHUS, B3aUMHOTO yYBAXCHHA H B3AUMHOM BEITOAEL. Bce aT0 coszaer YCHOBNx  [UIs MMONOTBOPHOTO OGNEHNA MEXAY FOCYZAPCTBAMH, pasBHTHA TOPTOBO-9KOHOMHYECKHX CBASeÿ  pocra HayuHo-TexHHYeCKHX H KyJIBTYPHEIX 06MmeHoB". à
14.35 Kak HaM npexcrasnsercä, y HAPOJAOB Mupa, y BCEX NIO1EÂ SEMIH HMC@TCH XOpomas neponerm-  Ba AA GHarOporHoñ nesaTesBHOCTH ~ HeyCTAHHON CopsOsI sa Mup, sa ykperenne MexayHapomoÿ 6e-  somacHocTu, sa pasopyxenne, sa ImpoKoe pasBHTHe 9KOHOMHYeCKOTO, HAYYHOTO H KyJIBTYPHOTO go  TpyZHMYECTBA B HHTepecax BCETO YenoBeyecTBa. BaxHylo POIB B HOCTHXEHHH STHX BEMMKHX TyMamHiy  Hemel MOXeT CHTpaTh Hama Oprannsauns. Baxnoe SHAUEHHE AJIT 9TOTO 6y1yT HMETB pemeHus HEIHE I=  Heit ceccur D'eneparbHoïñ KondepexHurn. IlOsBOJBTE NOXENATL € B 9TOM MONHOTO ycHexa! Brarozapp  Bac.
(14.1) Mr. ZEMSKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President, I should like to say first of all that the Soviet delegation also expresses its condolences  to the Indonesian people in connection with the natural disaster which has just occurred.
(14.2) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The Soviet delegation is very pleased that the delegations of  the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mozambique, Papua New Guinea  the Republic of Surinam, the Republic of Seychelles and Grenada are participating for the first time in the  work of Unesco's General Conference. We welcome the representatives of the People's Republic of Angola  who have just taken their rightful place amongst the delegations in this hall.
(14.3) For the first time in its history, the General Conference of Unesco is being held on African soil in  the capital of an African State, Kenya. We feel this to be of great and fundamental importance. From the  very first days of its existence, our Socialist State has resolutely supported, and is still supporting, the  struggle of the peoples of Africa for freedom and independence from imperialism and colonial oppression.  From those days, now more than half a century ago, when our socialist State first emerged on the inter-  national scene and the African continent as a whole was still ruled by the colonialists, an interesting docu-  ment has been preserved in the archives, namely the proposals made to the Soviet Government by the then  People's Commissar for Foreign Affairs, G.V. Chicherin, which stated, among other things, that the Soviet  Union should strive to enable the peoples of Africa to take part in all international conferences and commit.  tees on an equal footing with European nations. The great founder of our nation, Lenin, on reading this  document, wrote in the margin the remark "Right!"
(14.4) Today, when the States of Africa are not only participating in such an important international forum  as the General Conference of Unesco but when the Conference itself is taking place in one of those States,  we can repeat Lenin's "Right!" with profound satisfaction.
(14.5) It has cost the freedom-loving peoples of Africa and their friends great efforts and great sacrifices  to bring about the radical changes which have made possible the holding of our session on African soil. The  struggle for the complete liberation of Africa from colonialism is continuing. Quite close to here in Rhodesia,  Namibia and the Republic of South Africa, the colonialists, as we all know, are clinging to every inch of the  land they have seized and are using every means from political intrigue, provocations and underhand assassina-  tions to mass shootings of Africans in order to stave off final defeat.
(14. 6) We have just been hearing about further crimes by imperialism. In such circumstances, is it pos-  sible to take seriously the words of those who rail against the so-called "politicization" of Unesco? Can we  allow ourselves to turn our backs on the struggle of the African, and not only African, nations against the  vestiges and consequences of colonialism, and concentrate our attention on "non-political" matters?
(14.7) There can be only one answer: no, we cannot. Unesco is called upon to carry out, and to carry out  to the full, without artificial limitations, its principal obligation laid upon it by the Constitution, which is  with all its strength and all its authority to contribute to the strengthening of peace and international security  and the final elimination of colonialism and racialism in all its forms and manifestations and to promote the  broad development of cultural co-operation in the interests of all countries and nations. In our view, it is  precisely this which must be the basis of the approach followed by the General Conference of Unesco in seek-  ing a solution to each problem on its agenda. This is the basis from which the Soviet delegation approaches  them.
(14.8) There are many matters on the agenda of our Conference. They require consideration and, pilcourss  will be considered. As in all such cases, however, there are among them fundamental matters of principle  on the solution of which the accomplishment of all the others essentially depends.  veloping  aken in  ructive
(14.9) Thanks to the efforts of the peace-loving forces, a process of international détente is now de  in international relations, trust between States and nations is growing and the first steps are being t  the direction of halting the arms race. All this is making it possible to cut back expenditure on dest  weapons and the maintenance of armies, and the sums involved are considerable: at the present Hime: aves
300, 000 million dollars are spent annually for these purposes. There is no doubt that a portion of ihe re  sources thus.saved could be used additionally for the needs of education, science and culture, including  cultural and scientific exchanges between nations. In that event, we would find it possible not only to fulfil  but overfulfil our international co-operation programmes.
(14.10) At the XXXIst session of the United Nations General Assembly, now taking place, the Soviet LS  has put forward a number of important proposals such as the conclusion of a world agreement panning the  use of force in international relations, the curtailing and subsequent elimination of nuclear weapons, the  banning of new types and systems of weapons of mass destruction, the reduction of armed forces znd su  ventional weapons, etc. At this session of the General Assembly, too, the Soviet Union is continuing ol  press, for the implementation of its proposal for a 10 per cent cut in the military budgets of those State
534     which are permanent members of the Security Council and the alloca  assist developing countries. It is not hard to see that progress in th  in détente as a whole would create more favourable conditions for th  international problems, which is the complete eradication of all re  oppression, of the infringement of the equal rights and independence of nations, and of all bastions of col  nialism and racialism. The urgency of this problem was emphasized very forcetall by the ri aa  General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, L.I 2 ; hi =  e e ap e , L.1. Brez nev, at the recent  tion of part of the resources saved to  e matter of disarmament and, hence,  e solution of one of the mostimportant  maining vestiges of the system of colonial
(14.11) Itis absolutely clear that, if the proposals on disarmament were to be put into effect, Unesco too  would have more favourable opportunities for fulfilling its noble aims and programmes. :
(14.12) On the basis of its deep conviction regarding the vital importance and feasibility of these ideas, the  Soviet Union has proposed that the present session of Unesco's General Conference should consider the mat-  ter of "The role of Unesco in generating a climate of public opinion conducive to the halting of the arms  race, a reduction of accumulated weapon stocks, the systematic diminution of military expenditure and the  transition to disarmament'' (Item 72 of the Agenda).
(14.13) The aim is that Unesco, on the basis of its constitutional obligation to contribute to the strengthen-  ing of world peace and within its fields of competence, should make its specific contribution to solving the  problems of disarmament. Unesco is able to do this primarily through the creation of a climate of public  opinion which recognizes the urgency of solving the problems of disarmament. In this connection, Unesco  could speak out in favour of the convening of a world disarmament conference, organize widely representa-  tive forums of scientific and cultural workers and stimulate research activities in this field. The delegation  of the USSR expresses the hope that the draft resolution proposed by the Soviet Union in document 19 C/110  will be widely supported by the delegations to the present session of the General Conference.
(14.14) Mr. President, Unesco is soon to celebrate its great jubilee. In this connection, we should like  to express our very good wishes to all participants at the present session and to the Director-General of  our Organization, the outstanding politician and son of Africa, Mr. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow.
(14.15) The message sent by the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the USSR, A.N. Kosygin, to those  attending the present nineteenth session of the General Conference stated that Unesco, as one of the major  authoritative organizations of the United Nations system, is making its contribution to the cause of détente  and the strengthening of international peace. During its thirty years' existence, Unesco has undertaken  many useful activities concerning the organization of international scientific and cultural co-operation. It  has many times adopted important and useful decisions of a political nature on the struggle for peace and  disarmament, on contributing to the achievement of independence by colonial countries and nations, on the  fight against racialism and apartheid, etc. At its last session, the General Conference responded to a  Soviet initiative and adopted an important resolution of principle concerning Unesco's participation in cele-  brating the thirtieth anniversary of the victory over Hitlerite fascism.
(14.16) Unesco of course played an active part in preparing recommendations for the historic Conference  on Security and Co-operation in Europe and is now able to make a valuable contribution to the implementa-  tion of that Conference's decisions. The Final Act, adopted on 1 August 1973 in Helsinki, is a good guide  for Unesco, too, as regards broad international and regional co-operation. The Helsinki Final Actcontains  a recommendation applicable to Unesco and the other intergovernmental organizations that more effective  use should be made of existing possibilities for improving the exchange of information and experience through  participation in specific programmes of international scientific and technical co-operation, especially the  UNISIST programme, particular attention being paid to defining the lines along which information, technical  consultation, the supply of information and the processing of data should develop. In Unesco's Draft Pro-  gramme and Budget for 1977-1978 (document 19 C/5) there are a number of outline proposals regarding the  organization of European co-operation (e.g. the holding in 1978 of the Second Conference of Ministers Re-  sponsible for Science and Technology Policy in the European and North American region; Unesco!s activities  relating to the environment; and Unesco's activities in the fields of education and culture). This, however,  is far from sufficient. We feel that Unesco will be acting correctly if henceforth it continues to undertake  corresponding activities in the spirit of the recommendations of the Helsinki Final Act.
(14.17) Considering the encouraging results of Unesco's participation in the preparation and holding of the  European Conference, it would be appropriate for Unesco to turn its attention to the importance of discuss-  ing matters associated with the development of co-operation and the guaranteeing of security in Asia on the  basis of the joint efforts of the States of that continent.
(14.18) The Soviet Union for its part is co-operating, and is ready to co-operate further with other countries  in the widest possible way, in such projects of a global nature as the protection of the environment, the con-  quest of space, the use of the resources of the oceans, etc. Soviet initiatives and specific proposals in these  fields are well known.
(14.19) Similarly, the Soviet Union is in favour of broad equality of rights and international co-operationin  Since it attaches importance to such co-operation, the USSR has proposed  onference, the question of "Cultural and scientific  as an important factor in strengthening peace,  item 73 of the agenda).  education, science and culture.  for consideration by the present session of the General C  co-operation on the basis of mutual equality and interest  friendship and reciprocal understanding among peoples" (  particularly in recent years, has shown that they
(14.20) Th international cultural ties,  me 1 relations and that they have come to play a  are an important basic feature of the system of internationa en  significant part in the spiritual development of all mankind. The development of cultural tes in ; En er-  ests of the strengthening of peace and friendship among nations has frequently been the see 55 ee  at intergovernmental regional conferences convened by the Organization to discuss policies or educ go  science, culture and information. As you know, 4 November this year marks the tenth ennivensany o 2  adoption by Unesco, in commemoration of the Organization's twentieth anniversary, of the ie 2  the Principles of International Cultural Co-operation’. It is therefore quite justifiable to consi Jor the oe 2  ter of cultural co-operation at the present session of the General Conference with the I aT  has been achieved through the implementation of the Declaration, comparing it with earlier Unesco
12 on this matter and giving it a greater significance and relevance, in keeping with the ideals ang Principles;  our Organization.  Soi
(14.21) Since reciprocal knowledge of the cultural achievements of all nations contributes tothe Strengthen  ing of peace and understanding among nations, the delegation of the USSR would consider it prop he  the General Conference to confirm the basic principles which must be the foundation of the internationa] or  cultural and scientific co-operation being established by Unesco: the right of every nation freely to cho  and develop its own social and cultural systems and establish its own laws and regulations relating to  tion, science, culture and information; the right of every nation to carry out its social and cultural To  ment as it sees fit; and observance of the principles of sovereignty, non-interference in internal affairs 0p-  complete equality and mutual advantage in the establishment of international cultural and scientific  co-operation.
(14.22) Allow me to express the hope that the participants in the General Conference will support the draft  resolution put forward by the USSR on this question, which is based on the principle that this can be an im  portant factor in the strengthening of peace (document 19 C/111). ù
(14.23) Mr. President, it is clear from the agenda approved a few days ago that the present session of the  General Conference of Unesco will be discussing a number of important and urgent matters of interest to  the majority of countries. These include items such as the implementation of the resolution adopted by the  eighteenth session of the General Conference concerning Unesco's contribution to peace and its tasks with  respect to the promotion of human rights and the elimination of colonialism and racialism; the long-term  programme of measures whereby Unesco can contribute to the strengthening of peace; preparation of a  draft universal declaration on race and racial prejudice and of a draft declaration on fundamental principles  governing the use of the mass media in strengthening peace and international understanding and in combating  war propaganda, racism and apartheid. It is our view that discussion of these matters will enable the Gen.  eral Conference of Unesco to adopt decisions which will contribute to the strengthening of peace and inter.  national security.
(14.24) Mr. President, the statements made by a number of delegates in the plenary meetings have revealed  a well-founded anxiety with regard to the explosive situation in the Middle East brought about by the expan.  sionist policy of Israel. The Minister for Foreign Affairs of the USSR, A.A. Gromyko, stressed at the  XXXIst session of the United Nations General Assembly that, and I quote, Yas long as the Israeli occupation  of Arab lands continues and the legal rights of the Arab people of Palestine are trampled underfoot, fewer  will continue to rage in the Middle East.
(14.25) You all know that thanks to the efforts of many States, including the Soviet Union, a basis has been  arrived at for the establishment of peace in this region. This requires the withdrawal of Israeli troops from  all Arab territories occupied in 1967; the meeting of the lawful national demands of the Arab people of Pales-  tine, including their inalienable right to establish their own State; and the provision of international guaran.  tees for the security of all States in the Middle East, including Israel.
(14.26) Regarding item 11 of the agenda, entitled "Unesco's contribution to the establishment of a new inter-  national economic order', the delegation of the USSR would like to draw the attention of participants in the  General Conference to the statement made by the Soviet Government entitled "The rebuilding of international  economic relations'’, made at the current XXXIst session of the United Nations General Assembly. This  statement fully sets out the Soviet Union's attitude on this important matter. ''The Soviet Union", it says,  "following its unchanging line directed towards the strengthening of peace and the improvement of the whole  system of international economic relations, is accordingly in favour of their rebuilding on a democraticand  equitable basis'. The statement justly points to the direct link which exists between the settlement of the  problem of disarmament on the one hand and international security and the rebuilding of international econ-  omic relations on the other. It states that "further progress in political and military détente, which is of  prime importance for the strengthening of world peace, will at the same time contribute to the normalization  of the world economic situation. In its turn, progress in rebuilding international economic relations will  contribute to the deepening and broadening of détente".
(14.27) We would be doing a disservice to international co-operation in education, science and culture  within Unesco if we were to say nothing about the shortcomings apparent in Unesco's activities in general  and in its Draft Programme and Budget for the next biennium.
(14.28) Looking back on the road which Unesco has travelled, we would have to say today with all sincerity  that Unesco is still far from taking advantage of all its opportunities for the effective fulfilment of the basic  task enjoined on it by its Constitution, which is the strengthening of world peace through the developmentof  international co-operation within its spheres of competence. Our Organization also still has much to do to  improve its practical activities relating to the implementation of programme projects in education, science  and culture. The inclusion of a large number of projects in Unesco's programme and a certain degree of  duplication among some of them urgently raise the question of the need to concentrate budgetary resources  and the efforts of Unesco's Secretariat on implementing major projects and long-term, forward-looking  programmes which would be useful to all Member States. Among programmes which deserve a greater  concentration of resources, we could mention the international programmes on protection of the enviren:  ment (Man and the Biosphere), oceanographic research, hydrology and geological correlation, which serve  the interests of all countries.
(14.29) One of the major shortcomings in the draft programme for 1977-1978 is the excessive number of :  separate and insufficiently co-ordinated projects, the implementation of which requires considerable budget-  ary funds and the efforts of scientists from many countries. Anxiety is also aroused by the unwarranted,  one-sided fondness shown in Unesco for a regional approach to the tackling of major international geste)  which are of interest not only to individual States and not only to a particular region, but to all countries Ey  the world. It would be possible to point to the absence in Unesco's programme of a pivotal interdiscipl  programme in such important spheres as the struggle for peace, disarmament, the defence of human right  Unesco's contribution to the rebuilding of international economic relations, etc.  o's budgetary and staff
(14.30) Nor, finally, can we remain silent about the present shortcomings in Unesc 1e growth in  eg policies. The delegation of the USSR expresses serious concern at the constant and considerab
536     the Organization's budget. For example, six years a,  whereas today we are being asked to approve bud  means that over three budgetary periods,  for this is that, as before, more than 60 p  penditure.  go our Organization's budget amounted to $90 million, getany, appropriations to the tune of $224 million. This Unesco's budget has increased by 250 per cent! The chief reason er cent of Unesco's financial resources go on ad ministrative ex-
(14.31) The delegation of the USSR has introduced for consideration b 3 É ; the Gene ution concerning possible ways and means of stabilizing Unesco!s Hate Lad Sy a draft resol-  a new matter, and I should particularly like to stress that th or afinclhudgel isnot ! : e draft we are presenting does not ff U ! programme for 1977-1978. The idea behind this proposal is simply that the Sa ees ;  matter of the stabilization of the budget and  eral Conference of Unesco. We feel that this problem should be given serious consideration if we wish our Organization to be effective  posts, is the basis for the suce
(14.33) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, in our age of splendid scientific and technical discoveries and cultural achievements, of the harnessing of atomic energy and the conquest of space, the accelerating arms race constitutes an ever more formidable threat to these achievements and to mankind itself. For  this reason, the struggle for the preservation and strengthening of peace and against the unleashing by im- perialism of world wars and local conflicts, is increasingly assuming an especial acuteness and urgency Hundreds of millions of people recently signed the new Stockholm Appeal which calls on all people of good- will and all nations to join forces in the struggle for the halting of the arms race, for disarmament and the calling of a world disarmament conference as rapidly as possible. The new Stockholm Appeal represents  a response to the deep anxiety felt by all mankind about the future and about the fate of the civilization man  has created.
(14.34) Quite recently, in an interview recorded for French television, the Secretary-General of the Cen-  tral Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, Leonid Ilyich Brezhnev, said: "Let us see in  more detail what détente implies. It is the path away from confrontation and towards co-operation, away  from threats and sabre-rattling to the solution of disputes by means of negotiation and, generally speaking,  the rebuilding of international relations on the sound foundations of peaceful coexistence, mutual respect  and reciprocal advantage. All of this establishes conditions for fruitful intercourse between nations, the  development of economic and trade ties and the growth of scientific, technical and cultural exchanges''.
(14.35) In our view, the nations of the world and all people on earth have good prospects for undertaking  noble activities - the tireless struggle for peace, for the strengthening of international security, for dis-  armament, and for the broad developmeht of economic, scientific and cultural co-operation in the interests  of all mankind. Our Organization can play an important part in achieving these noble and humane aims. In  this, the decisions adopted by the present session of the General Conference will be of great significance.  Allow me to wish the Conference every success in this. Thank you.
(15) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and I call upon the Honour-  able Mr. Abdul Hafeez Pirzada, Minister for Education and head of the delegation of Pakistan.
16.1 Mr. PIRZADA (Pakistan):  Mr. President, may I begin by saying that the sad news of the earthquake which has taken place  inIndonesia has immensely distressed us. On behalf of the Pakistan delegation, and on my own behalf  I should like to express our deepest sympathy to the victims of this natural disaster. Our prayers  are with our Indonesian brothers who, I feel sure, will face this trial with courage and fortitude.
16.2 Mr. President and distinguished delegates, I thank you, Mr. President, for giving me an  opportunity to participate in the general policy debate. Before I speak on policy matters, I should  like to extend the greetings of the Pakistan delegation to you on your election as President and to  the other 15 honourable delegates on their election as the Vice-Presidents of the nineteenth session  of the General Conference of Unesco. I also extend congratulations to those honourable delegates  who have been elected to various Commissions and Committees of the Conference. Please convey  my delegation's appreciation of the excellent work done by the outgoing President. It is really a  great occasion that the nineteenth session of Unesco's General Conference is being held in one of  the African countries, in accordance with a resolution of the eighteenth session. Herculean efforts  must have gone into implementing the resolution, and I wish to congratulate Unesco for having been  able to marshal all its resources for holding the Conference in Nairobi. I also express our gratitude  to the Government of Kenya for making excellent arrangements for holding the Conference atNairobi.  Mr. President, the large number of delegates from the Member States and of non-governmental or-  ganizations participating in the Conference is surely an indication of the confidence that the delegates  place in Unesco as a Specialized Agency of the United Nations charged with the responsibilities enu-  merated in its Charter. With the unprecedented developments in the fields of education, culture,  communication, science and technology, and in the context of the new dimensions of may relation-  ship with the problems of world peace, human rights, new economic order, ete. , Unesco's responsi-  bilities have increased vastly, not only in volume but also in complexity. It is unfortunate that
12 Unesco has run into financial straits due to reasons already known to you. I wish to congratulate  the Director-General of Unesco on the fact that, under his leadership and guidance, Unesco ig not  only bravely fighting this crisis but has also evolved a number of noteworthy reforms within the  Secretariat, and has new approaches to designing and implementing programmes and projects in  various fields. Perhaps, never before in the history of the United Nations has so much been de.  manded from a Specialized Agency working under such crippling constraints. I should like to take  this opportunity to extend to the Director-General, through you Mr. President, the assurance of  Pakistan's continuing support and co-operation in the discharge of his onerous mission.
16.3 Mr. President, honourable delegates who have spoken earlier have already dealt with Various  policy matters concerning Unesco's programmes and budget for the next biennium. I should, there.  fore, like to confine my brief speech to the major challenges that the world is facing at the moment  I need not recount in detail how the Development Decade has failed to fulfil the hopes it had wg  While the rich countries have leapt forward into the new era of nuclear technology, developing coun.  tries have run doubly fast to stand where they were. What is worse is that, in the near future, the  gap between the rich and the poor countries is likely to widen. According tosome estimates, in the  next five years the income per head in the poor countries may increase by at most $10, while in the  same period the income of the average citizen in the developed countries will increase by $900.  Mr. President and distinguished delegates, you will agree with me that this state of affairsis fraught’  with many risks to the peace of the world and the prosperity of mankind. The crisis of confidence  that prevails in the countries of the Third World cannot be allowed to continue indefinitely. Urgent  measures need to be adopted, and all-out efforts made, to ensure that the international economic  difficulties stemming from the imbalance in the distribution of wealth and productive power in the  world are overcome as soon as possible. Mr. President, my delegation is pleased to note that  Unesco's Draft Medium- Term Plan for 1977-1982 has specifically included objectives related to the  establishment of the new international economic order in the world. The plan also defines the strat-  egy to be followed and the role to be assumed by Unesco in this regard. My delegation also gener-  ally agrees with the findings and recommendations submitted by the Director-General in his report  to the current session of the General Conference.
16.4 Before I express oùr aspirations and ideals, I will briefly state our existential situation.  This is, perhaps, the only authentic point for a beginning. Our education policy is based upon  three important principles: (1) education of the masses must be achieved through a mass move-  ment; (2) education of the elite, however fascinating and alluring it may be for T.S. Eliot and,  indeed, for our early educational reformers, must posit its own antithesis - that is due emphasis  on the learning of technical skills; (3) a synthesis has to be effected between the two streams so  that a whole and a complete man may emerge. The Western models stimulate our thinking but we  find that they are both unsuitable and inaccessible. We see them dangled before our eyes but we  also know that they are not within our reach. We were in this precarious position until a short  while ago. With the philosopher-poet Igbal's stirring call to the East, and Frantz Fanon's  "Wretched of the Earth", the Third World began its monologue. But soon we discovered our  legitimate function, and that was to establish a dialogue among the countries of the Third World.  This dialogue has begun at all levels. The "Culture of Silence' so graphically described by Paulo  Freire has discovered its own voice, and it knows that it can speak and can communicate. We  found that our educated people were wearing a "'persona'' which not only alienated them from their  people, but also gave them a sense of utter and complete self-estrangement. We are thus under-  taking a massive shift towards technical education, reinducing a sense of the dignity of labour and  the wholesome experience of a co-ordination between the head and the hand, the mind and thebody.  The Cartesian dualism between mind and body has to be overcome not by eliminating one pole but  by appropriating and transcending both. But in this process we have to discard old ideas and develop  a new set of concepts. We find that this huge educational venture is a cultural action for freedom.  In the turmoil of change the spiritual anchor is our religion and our culture. It is certainly not the  religion of the self-styled priest, or the culture of a "six million dollar man', but the religionand  culture of the people. Our simple people have faith in Islamic values, knowledge, love, justice,  beauty, and they sing and dance these values to keep the torch of life burning. Our educational  policy, therefore, seeks inspiration from people's religion and people's culture and seeks its in-  herent unity without attempting to damage its rich variety.
16.5 Thus I come prepared for a dialogue, a dialogue with all the nations of the world. In fact  the entire Third World is prepared for a dialogue with the developed nations. It appears to me  that today the Third World does not make demands nor does it express resentments - because the  days of demands and complaints are over. I assert that it is the destiny of the Third World tobring  about a just economic order in the world. Various interpretations have been given to the expression  "a just world economic order". Some Western economists have defined it, through force of habit,  I think, as a distribution of loaves and fishes among the rich countries. Our definition, however,  emphasizes concepts of justice and fair play. We also find loaves and fishes palatable and nourish-  ing but we want to see them distributed equally among all. The modus operandi has yet to be worked  out for the achievement of this goal. Itis with a view to working out the mechanism which can bring  this goal to realization that our Prime Minister, Mr. Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, has issued a call for 8  Third World Summit. The principal objective of this proposed Summit is to conceptualize the inter-  national economic order and to give it a content which is consonant with the values of justice and  equity. It is to lay the foundation of a Third World forum for the discussion of common educational  problems that he has decided to hold a Third World Education Ministers' Conference in early  February 1977, in Islamabad. The educationists of the West have also been invited to the col  ference.  he
16.6 With the development of this dialogue, Unesco has to face new responsibilities. One of its 2 responsibilities is to sponsor research concerning the concept of a just economie order for the :  world. This concept needs to be translated into concrete specifics; the formal definition demands  exact denotation. It should be a definition in which the aspirations of the poor and underdeveloped  people of the world are reflected. Secondly, Unesco needs to help and encourage the development  of new models of education, models which can withstand the scathing but genuine criticism of  schooling by men like Ivan Illich, Paulo Freire and others. It appears that these models will have  to appropriate creative aspects of non-formal education, and distance learning. Conventional  methods are not only anachronistic butalso oppressive. They exude a repulsive stench which breeds  disaffection with learning. We need a sharp focus on awakening the creative impulse in people.  The conventional methods damage creativity, and keep the "oppressed" in a state of intellectual  bondage. Thirdly, whether or not the movement for finding alternatives to technology in the West  succeeds, it is imperative for us in the Third World to experiment with soft or intermediate tech-  nology. It is not because "small is always beautiful", but because it is only through experimenta-  tion with the small that we can accelerate our development and also avert the peril of dehumanizing  our industrial growth. The "soft technology" promises that human development will be contempor-  aneous with industrial development. Extensive research is required in this field, and I am certain  that Unesco can take a lead in this direction.
16.7 There is another area which has not been sufficiently explored by Unesco. I refer to the area  of inter-personal relations. My primary concern is the teacher-pupil contact in this vastly com-  plex environment in which radio and television blare out information incessantly, and where teach-  ing in the ancient sense is no longer possible. With this onslaught of information and commercial  advertisements, there is a sense in which men may lose the ability to foster the virtue of knowledge,  the capacity to have faith and the impulse to cherish wisdom. Unesco can, if it so plans, sponsor  research into the factors which can blight human integrity and the measures which can preserve  the sacred and prevent the human personality's further "dispersion into multiplicity".
16.8 Most of the Third World countries face a serious dilemma. The dilemma is that, in order to  eradicate poverty and to increase production, they have to pour the major share of their meagre re-  sources into economic development; and for social development, especially education, investments  do not result in immediate benefits. This gives rise to a crisis of priorities. We in Pakistan have  endeavoured for the past five years to strike a rational and realistic balance between the two sectors.  We know that the major efforts must come from the developing countries themselves through mobil-  ization of internal resources both human and material. However, all the developing countries are  in dire need of massive assistance from the developed countries for all aspects of social develop-  ment, and this assistance has not been readily forthcoming. The developed world must be cogni-  zant of the reality that, without proper social development, all other efforts will in the long run  prove to be redundant and unfruitful. We appreciate the assistance which is already being extended  by Unesco and other international agencies, but we need a much more significant contribution for  the speedy attainment of our educational goals - universalization of education and rural development.
16.9 Before I conclude, I should like to welcome all the new Member States which have joined this  great Organization. I should like to thank you, Mr. President, and distinguished delegates who  have listened patiently to my speech. I should like to repeat the assurance of Pakistan's whole-  hearted support for, and fullest co-operation with, the Director-General in the smooth conduct of  the business of this Conference and in the implementation of the various resolutions that this ses-  sion of the Conference may adopt in the course of its deliberations. Thank you, Mr. President.
(17.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of Pakistan.
(17.2) This afternoon the first speaker will be Mr. Richard Andriamanjato, of the World Peace Council,  who will be followed by H.E. Dr. Harka Gurung, Minister of State for Education, Commerce and Industry,  and head of the delegation of Nepal. The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m,  La séance est levée à 13 h. 15  Se levanta la sessién a las 13.15
3acegaune saxpsIBaerc4 B 13.15  + te bus ls 85 lly Bus pd) ALI SJ nd