Fighteenth plenary meeting
4 November 1976 at 3 p.m.  President: Mr. TOWEETT (Kenya)  then: Mr. BACHIR (Morocco)  Dix-huitième séance plénière
1. The PRESIDENT:  I call on Mr. Munyawarara, representing the African National Council of Zimbabwe.
2.1 Mr. MUNYAWARARA (African National Council of Zimbabwe):  Mr. President, on behalf of the African National Council of Zimbabwe delegation to this august  meeting, I would like first of all to thank the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Organization for not forgetting to invite national liberation movements to take part in this inter-  national Conference of people dedicated to human advancement and fulfilment. The invitation ex-  tended to us has demonstrated that the national liberation struggle of the oppressed and exploited  peoples of Southern Africa and the Middle East continues to be a matter of no little importance to  the international world. Our delegation would also like to express its sincere appreciation to the  Government and people of the African Republic of Kenya for hosting this international Conference  of which we, as members of liberation movements are part and parcel. Our delegation highly  appreciates the deep love the Director-General of Unesco has for the liberation movements. Only  this last October he, himself, came down to Dar es Salaam in Tanzania to get a first-hand picture  of the situation of the liberation movements. We also greatly appreciate the interest H. E. Mzee  Jomo Kenyatta, the President of the Republic of Kenya, has shown for this Conference which he  So ably opened. At this point I would like to seize the opportunity to say that our delegation is  very happy that this Conference has overwhelmingly voted in favour of the revolutionary People's  Republic of Angola assuming its rightful and due place in the membership of Unesco. We are  equally happy that the People's Republic of Mozambique, Cape Verde, Principe and Sao Tomé,  Grenada and Seychelles have been similarly admitted.
2.2 Mr. President, may I start by making the point that Zimbabwe, the country our delegation is  representing here, is an underdeveloped country going through an anti-imperialist revolutionary :  Process aimed at overthrowing the British-settler-colonial regime of Rhodesia and seizing nationa  independence. This revolutionary process is a component of the world revolutionary process  against imperialism and reaction. As for the attainment of our national independence, which is  historically inevitable. Mr. President, there is very heavy fighting going on right now inside  Zimbabwe and Mozambique. We have been fighting with arms for our national liberation for ten ;  years now because the imperialists are taking care to ignore a cardinal truth: the valiant see  the titanic efforts and the countless sacrifices of the great masses of the people of Zimbabwe 7  the armed forces, for their basic national rights, for their right to live as human beings, and for
18 their democratic freedoms, their struggle against the eighty-year-old British-settler-colonia]  enterprise of conquest, oppression and exploitation. We shall continue to fight to the bitter end,  At the moment, the armed forces of the people of Zimbabwe are deployed throughout the country  co-operating effectively and scoring great military victories. There are now five fighting fronts  in operation in our country - the north-east, the east, the south-east, the west and the north-west,  The entire national territory of Zimbabwe is engulfed in military combat. The initiative is now  in our hands and the enemy no longer has freedom of movement to manoeuvre. Total victory is  certain. In this war, the enemy's response has been the launching of country-wide terror against  the civilian masses of Zimbabwe. Five hundred thousand people are at this moment in Nazi-type  concentration camps where they are facing inconceivable persecution and misery. Secondly, the  Smith regime has made and continues to make vain incursions in an attempt to annihilate the peo-  ple's grass-root political organizations, the African National Council and the armed forces of  liberation. Thirdly, thousands of Zimbabwe civilians have been shot in cold blood by the terrorist  Rhodesian troops. This is happening every day throughout the country. Fourthly, many Zimbabwe  homés have been, and continue to be, destroyed and thousands of our people are being forced to  flee to Mozambique, Zambia and Botswana as refugees where, again, they are pursued and mas-  sacred as happened at Néozoné in Mozambique recently. In pursuit of Zimbabwe refugees, the  racist troops violated the territorial integrity of the front-line States and engaged in barbaric  slaughter of innocent and defenceless civilians of these neighbouring countries. The enemy has  now resorted to extension, through the criminal aggressive policy of hot pursuit, of the war into  Mozambique, Zambia and Botswana. The People's Republic of Mozambique has been invaded and  right now the fascist troops of Ian Smith are engaged in heavy fighting deep inside Mozambique.  Of course, this military adventure will not intimidate the heroic people of the People's Republic  of Mozambique, but will entail the doom of the Rhodesian-settler-colonial regime. The enemy  camp, which consists of the Rhodesian regime and the criminal British and American ruling circles  has resorted to the misleading policy of settlement negotiations which culminated in the Geneva talks,  The whole concept of settlement talks is misleading because the enemy has stolen everything from  us and does not want to give back a thing. We, on the other hand, have nothing to give and want back  everything the criminal imperialists have stolen from us. The Kissinger plan and the Geneva talks  were intended to cover up the neocolonialist ends of the imperialist West led by the United States and  Britain. Here is what Dr. Henry Kissinger says about Anglo-American intentions in Southern Africa:  "The sudden collapse of the Portuguese colony and empire created fundamental changes in Southern  Africa. The forces for moderation in Black Africa risked being discredited. Radical movements  and guerrilla violence were on the increase. The United States could not remain indifferent to  these trends. We decided to exert our influence in the search for a negotiated solution before time  ran out, to seek new ways to foster Africa's economic development. Economic development in  Africa requires the co-operation of the industrial democracies. No other group of countries,  certainly not the socialist countries, is able to provide senior levels of technology, managerial  expertise or resources''. Mr. President, these words by Kissinger reveal the true character of  the Anglo-American policy of settlement talks in Southern Africa. For us however the struggle  continues. Our basic purpose is to thoroughly overthrow, by a national war of liberation, British  colonialism and the dictatorial fascist power of the Smith regime, to-establish the people's power  outside the orbit of imperialist control and at the same time to realize a broad and progressive  democracy on the basis of universal suffrage and respect of democratic rights and freedom. Our  economic programme is to build up an independent national economy, to improve the living stan-  dards of the masses and to abolish imperialist monopoly, and on the cultural plane our aim is to  develop a national and democratic culture and system of education.
2.3 So, Mr. President, Unesco's work for the Zimbabwe people cannot be set outside this histori-  cal frame. Otherwise this body would not be playing a useful role in the realization of the national  tasks we have to accomplish in our country today and tomorrow. Unesco's action in Southern  Africa must consolidate and expand, because the national liberation struggle is contributing to the  development of the world revolutionary process and to changes in the correlation of world forces  in favour of democracy, socialism and progress. This is not to say nothing has been going on in  this area. The ANC-Zimbabwe has a working relationship with Unesco and the two organizations  are working hand-in-hand in concrete programmes. There is a continuing UNDP/ Unesco commit-  ment to the development of the educational potential within each liberation movement. In January
1975, a three-year project, code-named ANC/75/002, was established and entitled Educational  Assistance to the African National Council (ANC-Zimbabwe). The Organization of African Unity  (OAU), which recognizes the African National Council as the sole liberation movement in Zimbabwe,  is the co-operating agency of this ANC/UNDP/Unesco project, while Unesco is the executing agency.  The objectives of the project are in two categories. First, the long-range objectives are to expand  the quantity as well as improve the quality of manpower resources available for the future services  of an independent Zimbabwe. Secondly, the immediate objectives are to provide fellowships and  stipends for three years, in support of training activities, to provide equipment for administrative  support, and school materials for training and to support the ANC's programme for the education  of its cadres through a series of seminars. The importance of this project, initially tailored to  meet some general and a few particular needs is not in doubt. However, from now on We strongly  desire it to take on a more comprehensive and concentrated form in view of the pressing specific  major development projects of Zimbabwe today and tomorrow. That is why we enthusiastically  welcome the Medium-Term Plan which has been submitted for approval to the nineteenth session  of the General Conference.
9.4 We would appeal to Unesco, Mr. President, as a  from schemes of small or general application to a poli  rojects in order to deal effectively with the enormous problems inh ;  » Lionel liberation and development. In other words, the Pr pret  manpower is a central area of the greatest concern to a people like ours which is fi on 9 pe an independent nation, and indeed to all young, developing, independent countries on basins  by Unesco of a specific comprehensive major project of training technicians and skilled Hl ee  for Zimbabwe would provide a concrete answer to our most pressing present and future A  of national liberation and national reconstruction, in three ways. First, it is clear that = en  ing up and expansion of the technical base of the national liberation and reconstruction te a  the necessary and even sufficient condition of the total liberation of any people fighting with revolu-  tionary conviction and determination to free themselves completely from the control of the im erial-  ist system and contribute effectively to general world progress and peace. Secondly, the Sy  tration of efforts on building up and expanding the technical base has the effect of redressing the  imbalance created by the imperialist system between investment for concrete production and edu-  cational investment in cultural fields. Thirdly, the emphasis on investment in technology and  techniques is the only way of assuring speedy, all-round national reconstruction and a relative  measure of economic independence. We therefore, call upon Unesco to implement a comprehensive  concentrated major project of technical manpower training and development for Zimbabwe in a ;  number of essential fields. In the field of primary health care, we are faced with an acute present  and future shortage of medical services in the rural areas of Zimbabwe. Today, the only services  available are a meagre few run by church missions. Yet it is the majority of the population - about
70 per cent - who are to be found living in these deprived areas. As good health forms the basis  for firm all-round development it will therefore be imperative to ensure a high degree of medical  coverage in these areas. The only way of providing such coverage is by way of a primary health  care system. The cornerstone of such a system will be the use of paramedical staff for community-  based health units. There is thus an urgent need for the training of paramedical technicians in-  cluding public health nurses, medical assistants, laboratory technicians, microscopists, physio-  therapists, pharmacists, blood technicians, registered nurses, radiological technicians, data  collectors, etc. In the area of habitat and municipal care we shall need technicians to handle tasks -  such as plumbing, water supply, sewage, drainage and fittings and painting. A third area is that  of land development, agriculture and forestry. In Zimbabwe, as in all underdeveloped countries,  natural resources and agriculture constitute the backbone of economic life. Development in this  area calls for sound technical know-how applied by technicians trained in such fields as: automo-  bile mechanics, farm machinery, fuels and lubricants, crop and animal husbandry and citriculture,  soils, irrigation and water conservation, pest control, land surveying and photogrammetry, meteo-  rology, etc. A fourth strategic field is that of industry and commerce, for the ANC is convinced  that industrialization utilizing the latest scientific and technological achievements is the only way  to overcome the economic backwardness of the people of Zimbabwe. To this end we shall require  technicians trained in architecture, building and carpentry, transportation and telecommunications,  machines, electricity and manufacturing, accounting, auditing and bookkeeping, secretarial work,  stenography and typing, and computer programming and operation. For our industrial development  it is essential also that we have trained manpower in fields such as mechanical, civil, electrical,  aviation and locomotive engineering. Fifthly, with regard to mass communication we shall need  technicians trained in radio, television, printing and other kinds of journalism, since information  is one of the most important factors of national reconstruction and economic development.  general mode of operation to switch radically cy of mounting specific comprehensive major
2.5 For the implementation of such a project in the fields outlined above we propose, Mr. Presi-  dent, the immediate establishment of a Unesco National Commission for Zimbabwe. In this Com-  mission Zimbabweans would be directly and actively involved, together with Unesco representatives,  in the orientation, direction and management of affairs to ensure that the project is carried out in  Ways and by means best suited to the requirements of the people of Zimbabwe. We do not pretend,  Mr. President, that the realization of this programme will be an easy matter either for the people  of Zimbabwe or for Unesco. ‘There will be obstacles. There will be omissions. But we mean to  pursue the plan with conviction and dedication. The project is a project of practical necessity,  upon which our progress depends. Without the co-operation of international organizations like  Unesco there is no realistic hope for speedy advancement of a country such as ours. Yet it could  be said that the reverse is equally true, for it must never be forgotten that the validity of world  organizations like Unesco rests crucially on the rate of all-round advancement of the broad masses  of the emerging and newly-born nations. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
3. The PRESIDENT: os A igh C  Ithank Mr. Munyawarara for his address, and I now call upon Mr. Wijsktiaseniyes ulin Com-  missioner for Sri Lanka in Kenya, and head of the delegation of Sri Lanka.
4.1 Mr. WIJEKULASURIYA (Sri Lanka):  Mr. President, it is with great sincerity and warmth that my delegat d ¢ tits  before us in congratulating you on your election to this high post in leading this world a  Nineteenth session. We are fully confident that your mature wisdom and experience in an os  the affairs of State will give us the leadership to make this crucial Conference memorable in i  history of three decades.  ion joins with others  iti i i ace, 4.2 Your predecessor, Mrs. Jéborû, conducted the affairs of Unesco at a critical time with grac  courage and fortitude. We pay our respects to her wise guidance in the last biennium.
18 4.3 Mr. Director-General, you have faced the most critical two-year period of Unesco's history  We were shocked to hear of personal tirades against you. We have faith in your ability, wisdom .  and capacity to face all these trials and tribulations and make Unesco stand firmly to work to  achieve the ideals of its founding fathers. We are happy to note that Unesco is reaching near-  universality. It is our privilege today to welcome the new members - Grenada, Guinea-Bissay  San Marino, Surinam, Seychelles, Papua New Guinea and Angola, who have joined this Organization  triumphantly and with dignity, after gaining their rightful place in the international community of -  nations.
4.4 This Conference is of great significance to all mankind. We are meeting in Africa and in this  beautiful and picturesque city where the warmth of the people and their hospitality will be happy  memories we will always cherish after the Conference. The holding of this Conference, in this  great country and in this great continent of Africa, is an historic event for the oppressed peoples  of the world. Africa has been and is still the continent of heroic struggles against colonialism,  neo-colonialism, racism, apartheid, fascism and oppression of all kinds. The last bastions of  reaction are still fighting a rearguard battle. But all the oppressed peoples of the world will emerge  victorious from these struggles to enjoy freely the inalienable rights of man. We hope that in this  struggle they will not be fighting alone for their just human rights and we are confident that others  will not be silent spectators of this just struggle of the peoples of Africa.
4.5 Mr. President, my delegation has a special duty here today, as the representatives of the  country which had the honour and the privilege to host the Fifth Non-Aligned Summit Conference  and which is the current Chairman of the non-aligned group of countries, to bring to your attention,  and to the attention of this assembly, the importance and significance of the decisions taken at the  Colombo Conference. These decisions give expression to the determination of non-aligned coun-  tries, which now number 86, to combat threats to peace which have manifested themselves in the  form of opposition to and brutal suppression of national independence movements, suppression of  human rights and freedom and the dignity of man, in the form of racialism, apartheid, neo-  colonialism, economic and other forms of domination. These decisions also give expression to  the will of these countries to play an effective role and make positive contributions to the main-  tenance of world peace and bring about effective co-operation among nations and mankind in general.  Mr. President, you will observe that these objectives of the non-aligned nations are in full harmony  with the fundamental objectives of this Organization. I am, therefore, confident that this Organiza-  tion will receive the full backing of the non-aligned countries in all the progressive measures which  it is prepared to undertake for the realization of their common objectives.
4.6 Many major United Nations agencies and many regional and other conferences in the past few  years have actively promoted the new international economic order. The timing of this nineteenth  General Conference is fortunate for us. The impetus Unesco has received from many international  agencies for the organization of a new international economic order or a new world order is un-  precedented. The Director-General has very rightly taken this opportunity to produce his Draft  Medium-Term Plan (1977-1982) issued as document 19 C/4. It is indeed, we stress, a document  for "the development of peoples and societies''. Economic problems were very much the theme in  the Colombo Conference as the most acute of international problems today and we are happy that  there is a great deal of common ground and congruence of ideas and documents in the Colombo  declarations and the Medium-Term Plan tabled in this august assembly. The non-aligned move-  ment has faith in the United Nations system, and desires to strengthen the system and work through  it for the realization of the new economic order for the amelioration and advantages of all peoples  in the developing world today.
4.7 Mr. President, Unesco is dear to us all. It has spent many years in arduous struggle for  peace, disarmament and human rights against the opposing forces of colonialism, neo-colonialism,  apartheid and racism. The struggle is not over in the fight for the dignity of man and the integrity  of his culture and the creation of a brotherhood of man that would bind him together in bonds of  amity, equality, fairness and justice more firmly than ever before. The non-aligned movement,  though it began later, has struggled for the same causes including peaceful coexistence and the  true independence of nations, and both Unesco and the non-aligned movement strive for global co-  operation and collective self-reliance.
4.8 Mr. President, we are all involved in, and committed to the hilt to "development". Develop-  ment is so hackneyed a word, now after two decades, after many millions of words have been  written about it and many institutes created to study it. My delegation appreciates the Secretary-  General's identification of development as endogenous; multidimensional and "as a process which  is found everywhere, but its centre nowhere''.  Its Headquarters  t the Director-  erty,
4.9 Unesco has been upholding the conscience of mankind in learning and culture.  has been an exclusive intellectual club for very long. We are, however, happy now tha  General together with his energetic band of assistants are together with us fighting against pov  hunger, disease, and the indignities cast on man. We are confident his plan will not be another  intellectual exercise for intellectuals to argue on the meaning and interpretation of words and con-  cepts, not another academic exercise for others to tell us what we should do to develop, but à  composite and definite plan for concrete action.
4,10 Mr. President, the Economic Declaration and the Action P .  operation of the Colombo Summit Conference, gives in detail the Me WEL Coat  the non-aligned movement is committed. As I said before, Unesco's Medium ere. EE a  great extent supports = these statements and actions in the Colombo documents, but 2  small difference. The E in Unesco does not stand for economics. We of the devel we ous  need education as well as economic development, and education must necessarily be en =  economic development, which view we are pleased has been discussed very RE to  Medium-Term Plan. ÿ in the
4,11 Unesco should harness all its prestige and its intellectual resources for locatin  knowledge, skills, attitudes and values to enable each culture to develop,  own identity, and remaining unimpaired. Similarly science and technology have to be harnessed for the same purpose. The other means through which Unesco can help the developing nations is  through the survey and conservation of natural resources, for each nation and for the whole of  mankind. These tasks are set forth in Unesco's march towards development of peoples and  societies.  g meaningful  while maintaining its
4,12 Unesco's Regional Office for Education in Asia has built up gradually over three years a  mechanism for collective self-reliance in education through the inauguration of an Asian Plan and  Centre for Educational Innovation and Development (APEID and ACEID) in Bangkok. We are learn-  ing from the innovative educational practices of each and every nation. We are learning also not  to commit the same mistakes. We exchange our ideas and our personnel for mutual benefit. This  has been one of the finest examples of multinational co-operation in educational development. We  understand similar projects are mooted in Africa, the Arab States and Latin America. We wish  them all success. In the near future a process may be set up by which all developing nations will  be learning from fruitful experiences of educational innovation and development relevant to our  societies. This pattern, my delegation hopes, will develop in science and technology, culture and  communication and in administration and planning. It is the wish and desire of the non-aligned  nations to encourage this kind of exchange and consultations in many spheres of activity in future  and if I may quote from the Colombo document to - "Exchange information and expertise relating  to educational systems and co-operate in the development of national education policies to serve  the needs of development, including joint education strategies containing new elements of particu-  lar reference to the objectives of developing societies and "To have joint projects in education,  training of personnel and publishing of teaching materials",
4.13 The stage is set for mutual learning between our systems in the developing world. Unesco  can foster such mutual exchanges as there will be no donor or receiver concepts in the new approach  to development. In fact Unesco is aware that, in the last few years, many developing nations have  made bold experiments and innovations in removing the debris left behind by the colonial education  systems. These education strategies need to be widely known in our activities. The International  Education Reporting Service could pursue more vigorously the channelling of information on the  efforts made by the developing nations to renovate their systems of education, science, technology,  culture and communication. We hope Unesco will act with vigour in these areas to encourage our  own mutual understanding and learning from other common efforts. In the words of my Honourable  Prime Minister, Sirimavo Bandaranaike: ''We of the non-aligned nations regard the problems of  our country as problems of all the others, for ours is a great commitment to the emancipation of  all our peoples''. Can there be a greater ideal for Unesco than to work in the next few decades for  the greater good of mankind?
4.14 Mr. President, may I be permitted to make a few brief comments at this stage on document
19 C/5. Itis, as the document itself maintains, a powerful one committing Unesco to action  programmes in 1977 and 1978. My delegation congratulates the Director-General on this document  especially in its new format and easy reference, and also on the laudable efforts made to consult  Member States. In passing, however, I would like to be permitted to make one comment, which  you, Mr. Director-General, having been once a Minister of State, would appreciate. You might  just imagine ‘a national government introducing a budget of this nature wherein nearly 75 per cent  has been allocated to staff, travel, consultancy and contractual services, and surviving for over  two years. But I must concede, Mr. President, that in a vast Organization like Unesco this is  perhaps found necessary and may even be unavoidable.
4.15 Mr. President, though Sri Lanka has not much to complain about in the recruitment of staff,  many nations are still underrepresented and some unrepresented in the Organization's staff. It 5  is a matter for regret. Equally it is regrettable to note that contractual services are not obtaine  from the Third World countries, except in a few and rare instances. Unesco is aware more than  any other organization of the growth of higher education, and the increasing numbers of academics  and intellectuals of the Third World. However, Unesco operates as if no one nes icons up je on  appreciable stature in our countries in the last 30 years. Unesco itself stresses changes in the  world, but acts as if no change has taken place, among the developing nations, in the a of  expertise, in the last three decades. In applauding, however, your brave attempt to make Unesco  development- conscious in the next few years, we wish that in your EE.  to and taken from the developing countries. For example, the printing oi documents an A  Would be cheaper in some of our countries. Those publications that are not urgently a 3  might be contracted to the Third World countries. Your efforts would then be better distri je 15,  and also better understood, by the Member States. The direct involvement of more Member Sta  activities more could be given
18 and individuals in the work of Unesco would, in the long run, give a greater stability and a better  understanding of Unesco.
4.16 We warmly welcome your effort to reorganize the Secretariat. My delegation, however  urges a greater decentralization of the activities of Unesco and a strengthening of its Regional  Offices and field services. Unesco has done much in this regard, but more needs to be done for  the overall decentralization of its activities and programmes.
4.17 Mr. President, through sheer trial and error our peoples have seen the futility of the entire  colonial education structure, its other paraphernalia and its myths and mythologies. The devel-  oping nations, virtually every one of them, are changing their education systems quite rapidly in  order to make education relevant and meaningful to their societies. We, in Sri Lanka, initiated  reforms in 1971 and implemented them the following year. The structure and content of the whole  system and its evaluation would, according to this plan, be completed by 1978. In junior secondary  level reforms, the cycle is complete with the holding of the national examination. With the ongoing  reforms in primary and secondary education, Sri Lanka has taken a bold step in moving towards  an education that will be fully development-oriented. In this process, we hope the schools will be  a development centre, accepted, fostered and strengthened by all the people. Our road towards  this goal will be a long and arduous one. We have taken the first step. My delegation hopes the  long march has begun with that first step to wean the school away from its inane scholasticism,  Sri Lanka has launched a scheme of pre-vocational studies in the junior secondary school in grades
6 to 9. We have asked the parents, principals and teachers to choose their own pre-vocational  subjects in line with those available or marketable in the community. We had no pre-planned  curricula. It is the civic groups - the Parent-Teachers Associations, community leaders who  helped us design over 70-odd syllabuses in various fields. Nearly 70 per cent of these subjects  have a rural and agrarian bias and this is as it should be in a primarily agrarian society like ours.  It was perhaps the grandest local participation in curriculim development of a work-oriented and  skills development venture. This programme has been accepted by our people as a necessary  corrective feature in a colonial, scholastic, élitist system of education. We have not yet conquered  ourselves. The public examination may stifle the growth of this area and we have to be constantly  alert to the possibility of pre-vocational subjects becoming a mere examination requirement. This  area needs an innovative, dynamic approach to motivate learners to undertake useful and productive  learning activities.
4.18 We have established further links with the school society by the provision of in-plant training  for schoolchildren in industry. This programme, begun as a pilot project in urban schools, will  be extended to all schools, rural and urban, so that students may participate in agriculture, industry  and services occupations. We have also organized a fair number of agricultural research centres  in some of our rural schools, and these are really multi-purpose centres which are used for dis-  seminating scientific information on agriculture to all sections of the community. Oddly enough,  our education systems were built to ensure failure for the many. There are thousands of drop-outs  from the formal system which, before the reforms in 1972, had accepted education equivalent to  academic scholasticism as a goal. These young drop-outs are provided with a part-time technical-  vocational education. This programme uses the school buildings in the afternoon with teachers and  technicians from the community teaching a variety of relevant courses likely to help youth, mainly  for self-employment. A State bank has agreed to give financial support for individual or collective  projects. Today over 400 secondary schools with over 10, 000 young people in 50-odd courses are  involved. This will be expanded to cover as many secondary schools as possible in all parts of  the country.
4.19 The senior secondary school curruculum has been changed by the introduction of a new three-  component section, namely a core curriculum of five subjects, a choice of six streams and "proj-  ect'' work, which is the most innovative feature of this new curriculum. Youth in these grades  are to plan and work with the community, for the improvement of learning at school and also for  community development. The school and the community are linked in a common endeavour. Youth  are to teach the community and the community is expected to teach them in return. They are to  develop a deep understanding of the local subculture, problems and the aspirations of their people.  Both groups are to work in harmony for development. After an initial trial period of pilot projects  in 18 schools project!’ work is now undertaken in over 900 senior secondary schools in Sri Lanka.  There are over 1, 300 different school projects under this scheme in which over 20, 000 students  and over 1,000 teachers are engaged. In this process of bringing the school to the community,  projects are chosen by the schools themselves. This work ranges from rural development pro-  cesses to child-care, agriculture, fisheries, reafforestation and the organization of pre-schools.  The wide interests of our children is evident from the variety of projects already undertaken.
4.20 Mr. President, Sri Lanka has had a free education system for the last 30 years. Yet educa-  tion is not fully democratized. The Ministry of Education has taken a number of steps to bring  education closer to the poor and oppressed sections of our society. Action has been taken to re-  lieve the economically oppressed people of their burdens of educating their children. For the last  six years, 90 per cent of the building funds have been allocated to the construction and remodelling  of rural schools. An equal proportion of funding has been used for the provision of science facili-  ties to rural schools. We have constructed more than 1, 500 laboratories and science rooms in  our schools. Our target is to provide science rooms and laboratories for about 6, 000 schools for
692            which money has already been provided. The construction of la  is more than double what was undertaken throughout the entire  to the post-Independence era - spanning a period of 150 years.  boratories for the last few years  British colonial period in addition
4.21 By vigorously following a policy for the development and diss  has built up an infrastructure in science in the country. Education  vilege of the urban schools. In our education reforms we have ch  and made it a compulsory field of study for all students at the jun  ment of Sri Lanka has taken a number of progressive steps for th  sity science faculties are encouraged to undertake research activiti  Annually, a number of scholarships for post-graduate work are  campuses and research institutions. A few of our scientists ha  research abroad through the auspices of Unesco, for example a  retical Physics in Trieste and other agencies and also through  The popularization of science is undertaken by voluntary and g  effort is made to bring science to the rural sector. We shall, for our part, actively support the  exchange of scientists in the developing countries. The exchange of leaders of our science com-  munities, university teachers and researchers in our nations, is a felt need and Unesco should  extend its support for such programmes in the near future. The international academic community  cannot always be only a north-south traffic and vice-versa. Traffic in other directions should be  fostered so that our tertiary education, science and technology may some day be organized to face  the realities of poverty in our own societies. My delegation strongly supports such proposals in  document 19 C/4.  emination of science, Sri Lanka  in science generally was a pri-  anged the curricula in science  ior secondary level. The Govern-  e development of science. Univer-  es geared to national development.  awarded for work in university  ve been able to Study and engage in  t the International Centre for Theo-  the good offices of friendly countries.  overnment agencies. A concerted
4.22 Through scholarships, large numbers of rural children are allowed the opportunity to  continue their secondary and tertiary education. Almost all university students are provided with  loans to complete their university education. The process of democratization and liberalization  of educational opportunities undertaken since 1956 under the late Prime Minister,  Mr. S. W. R. D. Bandaranaike, have been enhanced by the present Government of Mrs. Sirimavo  R.D. Bandaranaike. The schools in our plantation sector were not part of the State system of  education, though private schools were taken over in 1960. Though they were financially supported,  the curricula were to some extent different and provided a '"'second-rate education. With the land  reforms in 1975 that have completely changed the economic structure of our society, all schools  in the plantation sector are being absorbed into the State system and will be an integral part of the  national system of education. These plantation schools catered mainly for the children of the work-  ing class of Indian origin. By bringing these schools into the State system, we hope to provide  education for the integration of this group of people with the other sectors of the nation. We have  also catered for the improvement of educational facilities for physically-handicapped and deprived  children. For a number of years now the education of blind children has been integrated with the  formal system. We are undertaking the same process with deaf children. Similarly, mentally  retarded children will be cared for after the initiation of teacher-training programmes in this  specialized area.
4.23 Mr. President, time and again my delegation has focused the attention of this august assembly,  and also that of regional conferences, on the need to look at small schools and to provide success-  ful learning-teaching situations in such schools. These are usually one- or two-teacher schools  and the pupil enrolment is less than 100. My country is not the only one that is saddled with this  problem. Most Asian nations are contending with the problem of the most-neglected schools which -  are invariably found in the poverty-stricken areas. Their lot has been a very unhappy one. Remote-  ness, isolation, poverty of the parents and the lack of motivation have all conspired to make these  children live in the vicious cycle of poverty of their parents. Educationally, no systems have been  developed to work out an education pattern which will help these children to benefit from their edu-  cation and to overcome their poverty. We have, however, in our own way, created a small-schools  unit in the Ministry to work out through research and planning a system to improve the schools  educationally. A concerted research programme undertaken by Unesco will be a meaningful step  in its drive to create a just economic order as Unesco has stressed in the Medium-Term Plan for
4.24 Most of the educational systems of the non-aligned countries have mastered the technique  of producing a successful engineer or medical doctor, but we are far from having developed an  education system to produce a successful farmer. Hence, curricular reforms in our nations will  have to resolve this problem if we are to provide the growth and development of our people for a  Just social and economic order. Unesco, like all other United Nations agencies, is committed to  this ideal and we hope the new plan of operations will solve this educational problem.
4.25 Sri Lanka's silent social revolution 20 years ago ushered in an era of cultural activities  actively Supported and promoted by the State. The first Ministry of Culture in my country =  created by the late revered Prime Minister, Mr. S. W.R. D. Bandaranaike. We are gradua y  reaping the benefits of this national cultural resurgence. Today our theatre in the Te à  is of a quality of which we are rightly proud. An attempt is made to take good theatre 5 EE  âreas and also organize cultural festivals for the benefit of the nations! productive worker ; a  Peasants. In our new course of studies at the school level, aesthetic studies have been made co  pulsory and a university institute supports the study of all cultural activities.
18 4.26 We face a paradox in our national book industry. With one of the highest literacy rates in  the developing world, our publication and sale of books and journals remain static. Even with a  * proud record of action for the distribution of wealth in the society in the last 20 years, book pur-  chasing and the consequent publication of books remain a blot on our educational and economic  progress. A small National Book Development Council is pursuing action in various areas to in-  crease the publication and the distribution of books in the national language.
4.27 Mr. President, as a nation, Sri Lanka has believed in the regeneration of its people. Our  welfare society giving free education from the nursery level to the university, free health facili-  ties, subsidized transport, restricted house rent and even free food to the needy has infinite faith  in our people to develop their own society, economy, and culture in the form they desire. It ig  already seen in the political maturity of the people, in the better distribution of wealth, in the lack  of a mass exodus to the towns and in the development of a humanistic society. We have consistently  striven to build man as the centre of development. We can only succeed if our efforts in the field  of education, science, technology, culture and communication are further strengthened by the  activities of Unesco as they have always been in the past and will be with greater emphasis and  significance in the future. Thank you, Mr. President.  (Mr. Ben Bachir, Morocco, took the chair. )  ofl _ 9  el JS Id) oad) En gn, Lal) 5 VV AE Shel I Se REAM. 10) Lautl Lo SAT  v paral
(5) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the representative of Sri Lanka and I call upon Mr. Retureau, representative of the World  Federation of Teachers' Unions.
6.1 M. RETUREAU (Fédération internationale syndicale de l'enseignement). -  La Fédération internationale syndicale de l'enseignement (FISE) tient tout d'abord à remercier  le Directeur général d'avoir bien voulu inviter sa délégation à participer aux travaux de la dix-  neuvième session de la Conférence générale en qualité d'observateur.
6.2 Nous sommes particulièrement heureux de nous trouver sur le continent africain qui poursuit  avec succès sa lutte pour l'indépendance et la libération.
6.3 A l'occasion de la célébration du trentième anniversaire de l'Unesco, nous adressons nos  félicitations à M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow. Nous avons formulé, dans un message que nous lui  avons fait parvenir à cette occasion, nos voeux de succès pour les activités futures de l'Organi-  sation, qui aborde une étape nouvelle de son existence.
6.4 La FISE apprécie hautement l'activité déployée par l'Unesco et considère qu'elle apporte une  contribution très importante à la concrétisation des idéaux de paix, de respect des droits et de la  dignité de l'homme, ainsi qu'au progrès scientifique, culturel et technique.
6.5 La réalisation de ces nobles idéaux et le respect des valeurs humanistes passent aujourd'hui  par l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international basé sur l'abandon des politiques  de domination et d'exploitation, sur l'intensification de la coopération et de la solidarité, sur  l'action en faveur du développement.
6.6 L'Unesco s'est renforcée par l'admission de nouveaux Etats indépendants, le dernier en date  étant la République populaire d'Angola que nous félicitons de s'être libérée du colonialisme.
6.7 Aujourd'hui, l'Unesco est plus représentative et plus universelle que jamais et dispose de  forces nouvelles pour réaliser son programme et répondre aux besoins et aux aspirations des  peuples dans les domaines de sa responsabilité.
6.8 Nous trouvons dans le document 19 C/5 la volonté de satisfaire ces nouvelles aspirations, en  particulier celles des pays en voie de développement.
6.9 Pour s'acquitter pleinement de ses tâches, nous croyons que l'Unesco devrait s'appuyer  toujours davantage sur les populations et leurs organisations représentatives, en premier lieu les  syndicats ouvriers, les organisations paysannes, les syndicats et organisations d'enseignants et  autres professions intellectuelles, les organisations de jeunes, de femmes, etc.
6.10 C'est seulement avec leur appui et leur apport créateur à la réalisation du nouvel ordre  économique international et à l'exécution des principaux éléments du programme de l'Unesco que  pourrait être évité le risque, que le Directeur général évoque en ces termes dans son avant-  propos à l'ouvrage "Le monde en devenir! : "Le risque serait grand, en effet, d'en rester à des  affirmations de principe et à des déclarations verbales, en négligeant d'entamer les processus  effectifs du changement".
6.11 En tant qu'organisation syndicale internationale représentative d'  continents et de pays ayant des systèmes sociaux différents et parvenu  loppement différents, nous souhaitons renforcer notre coopération ave  et la mise en oeuvre des aspects du programme qui nous concernent.  organisations de tous les  s à divers niveaux de déve-  c l'Unesco pour la définition
6.12 Nos syndicats ont toujours assumé et continueront d'  domaines de l'alphabétisation et de l'éducation, de la défe  sionnelles des enseignants, des droits de l'homme, de la  aux mouvements de libération,  assumer leurs responsabilités dans les  nse des droits et des garanties profes-  solidarité internationale et du soutien
6.13 Aujourd'hui, nous pensons avoir des responsabilités nouvelles da  ordre économique international, face notamment à la crise qui s'appro  listes et aux activités des sociétés transnationales.  ns la construction du nouvel  fondit dans les pays capita-
6.14 Monsieur le Président, nous voulons souligner ici les progrès substantiels réalisés au cours  des deux dernières années dans la coopération entre l'Unesco et les syndicats, et nous apprécions  les résultats qui ont été obtenus. Pour se limiter aux enseignants, la FISE et les autres organisa-  tions internationales représentatives des syndicats ont été associées par le BIE à la préparation  de la Conférence internationale de l'éducation de 1975, à laquelle elles ont présenté un document  commun sur la formation des maîtres. Cette coopération se poursuivra, nous en sommes sûrs,  à l'occasion de la Conférence de 1977. Nous faisons également des recherches sur le profil et le  statut des nouveaux personnels de l'éducation.
6.15 Des rencontres avec les syndicats ouvriers et enseignants pourraient être organisées plus  régulièrement et inscrites au programme de l'Organisation, sans préjudice des autres types de  consultation individuelle ou collective existants.
6.16 Nous voulons à ce sujet appuyer la proposition formulée par la Fédération syndicale mon-  diale tendant à organiser une conférence syndicale consacrée à l'éducation des adultes. Cela  s'imposerait d'autant plus qu'à notre avis le projet de recommtandation concernant le développe-  ment de l'éducation des adultes, figurant dans le document 19 C/24, comporte des insuffisances,  notamment en ce qui concerne le rôle des syndicats dans la détermination du contenu et dans la  mise en oeuvre des plans et programmes de formation ; de plus, ce document n'évoque pas  l'action éducative du mouvement syndical.
6.17 Nous voudrions également suggérer, comme nous l'avons fait au cours de la dernière ren-  contre entre l'Unesco et les organisations syndicales de certaines professions, qu'un colloque soit  organisé avec la participation d'experts syndicaux sur la question des activités des sociétés trans-  nationales dans les domaines qui relèvent de la compétence de l'Unesco.
6.18 Monsieur le Président, en tant qu'enseignants, nous nous préoccupons de l'application de la  recommandation concernant la condition du personnel enseignant. Cette recommandation n'est  guère ou pas appliquée dans de nombreux Etats membres, comme le montre le rapport du Comité  conjoint Unesco/BIT qui figure dans le document 19 C/23.
6.19 Nous tenons particulièrement à signaler les grossières violations de cette recommandation  dans des pays comme le Chili ou l'Uruguay, dont les gouvernements ont procédé à des licencie-  ments massifs d'enseignants pour des raisons politiques, où les syndicats démocratiquement cons-  titués ont été interdits, où les garanties professionnelles ont été supprimées et où des enseignants  ont été et sont encore inquiétés, emprisonnés et parfois même assassinés, Nous souhaitons que  les Etats membres, et en premier lieu ceux d'Amérique latine, tirent toutes les conséquences de  cette situation en ce qui concerne les activités de l'Organisation, et cela tant que les droits de  l'homme et les principes et recommandations de l'Unesco resteront lettre morte pour le régime  fasciste du Chili.
6.20 Monsieur le Président, mon organisation soutient les opinions et recommandations formulées  dans le document 19 C/23, en particulier celles qui ont trait à la liberté d'opinion, au droit d'asso-  ciation et aux libertés professionnelles et syndicales ainsi qu'au droit de ne pas répondre aux en-  quêtes d'opinion.
6.21 Nous attirons par ailleurs votre attention sur le fait que le droit à l'éducation et la démocra-  tisation de l'éducation sont sérieusement limités et menacés par les mesures d'austérité budgé-  taires adoptées dans de nombreux pays touchés par la crise. C'est un choix intolérable. Il ES  en effet les conséquences des inégalités socio-économiques, mutile 1' enseignement, aggrave 5  conditions de travail des enseignants et provoque un chômage massif, tout partioulièrement a ez  les jeunes enseignants. Il est paradoxal de voir les enseignants sans emploi dans un monde où  l'analphabétisme augmente. Il serait, selon nous, plus opportun de réduire los Cope arme-  ment et de pratiquer une politique de paix, plutdt que de compromettre ainsi l'avenir de la jeu-  Besse et le potentiel intellectuel, scientifique et culturel des pays concernés.
6.22 Permettez-nous aussi de faire remarquer, Monsieur le Président, quil! puisse ee i de recommandation de 1'Unesco concernant le personnel de l'enseignement supérieur. Nous mo  étudié de près ce problème et nous sommes prêts à travailler avec Unesco pour aboutir auss  rapidement que possible à une meilleure protection des personnels universitaires.
6.23 La FISE attache également une très grande importance à la lutte contre le racisme et toutes  les formes de discrimination et à l'action en faveur des droits de l'homme. Or sur ce continent  africain qui nous offre son hospitalité existent encore des régimes qui ont institutionnalisé la dig.  crimination raciale et privent de leurs droits légitimes la grande majorité des populations  d'Afrique du Sud, de Namibie et du Zimbabwe. Ils usent pour cela d'une terreur sanglante, comme  à Soweto, grâce aux armes et au soutien politique, économique et financier que leur fournissent  certains Etats présents dans cette enceinte. En tant qu'enseignants, nous sommes pleinement  solidaires des peuples et des enseignants de l'Afrique australe qui luttent pour l'indépendance,  l'égalité des droits et la dignité humaine.
6.24 Nous étendons cette solidarité au peuple et aux enseignants palestiniens, qui sont également  victimes d'agressions et de discriminations et luttent pour la survie de leur nation, de leur cul-  ture bimillénaire, et pour le respect de leurs droits nationaux légitimes. Qu'il nous soit permis,  Monsieur le Président, de demander que l'Unesco développe son action et que l'Office de secours  et de travaux des Nations Unies pour les réfugiés, l'UNRWA, puisse recevoir les moyens de pour-  suivre et de développer son oeuvre humanitaire et son aide matérielle et éducative.
6.25 Nous avons, en ce qui nous concerne, contribué à l'action de l'Unesco en lui signalant des  cas de violation des droits de l'homme, en diffusant ses recommandations et en mobilisant par des  informations et des campagnes l'opinon internationale enseignante et scientifique pour qu'elle  développe sa solidarité matérielle et morale envers les individus et les peuples victimes du ra-  cisme, des violations des droits et de discriminations de toute nature. Nous désirons que l'Unesco  améliore encore ses possibilités d'action et joue un rôle toujours plus efficace dans ce domaine,
6.26 Monsieur le Président, malgré les efforts considérables de l'Unesco et les succès remar-  quables remportés dans plusieurs pays récemment libérés, l'analphabétisme s'étend, Nous  estimons que l'éradication de l'analphabétisme et l'accès des masses populaires à l'éducation sont  inséparables de profondes transformations sociales et économiques, et que l'on doit situer la solu-  tion de ces questions dans le contexte de l'instauration du nouvel ordre économique international,  en mettant fin aux rapports d'exploitation et de dépendance.
6.27 Les enseignants se dévouent largement aux campagnes d'alphabétisation et d'éducation et  exécutent un travail volontaire considérable, particulièrement lorsque les gouvernements engagent  leur pays sur la voie de l'indépendance et du progrès.
6.28 Parfois, les enseignants sont accusés d'immobilisme et de résistance aux innovations. Il est  vrai que leur passion pour leur métier, leur volonté d'améliorer l'enseignement sont souvent  déçues par la politique éducative rétrograde de gouvernements qui attentent aux droits et garanties  reconnus par l'Organisation internationale du travail et par l'Unesco, qui restreignent le budget  de l'éducation et cherchent à adapter le système éducatif aux besoins étroits et immédiats d'un  système en crise. Mais, parce qu'ils sont parmi les partisans les plus actifs du progrès de l'édu-  cation et des innovations qui améliorent la qualité et l'efficacité de leur travail, ils s'opposent  résolument à la dégradation de leurs conditions de travail et d'emploi, à l'appauvrissement des  programmes - même lorsque cet appauvrissement est peint aux couleurs de la modernité - et au  renforcement des inégalités et de la ségrégation.
6.29 Les enseignants, Monsieur le Président, veulent pouvoir exercer pleinement les responsa-  bilités qui sont les leurs dans l'élaboration des politiques éducatives, des programmes, des médias  éducatifs, dans la recherche et l'innovation pédagogiques. Ils revendiquent le droit de dispenser  un enseignement scientifique et objectif, et de bénéficier des garanties statutaires et sociales indis-  pensables à l'exercice de leur métier d'éducateurs.
6.30 Monsieur le Président, nous dirons pour conclure que la FISE tient à coopérer toujours plus  étroitement et plus efficacement avec l'Unesco dans l'intérêt du progrès de l'éducation, de la  science et de la culture, pour le respect des droits et des libertés des travailleurs de ces secteurs,  pour le progrès social et la paix. Merci, Monsieur le Président.  odd! —Y  _ €  ails JT spond) as gel) 3 0 land! Ca La) GIVEN he cola le LES JAI ola ps, ST  sys} ENO PER WIE)
(7) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the President of the World Federation of Teachers' Unions and I now call upon H. E. Shaikh  Abdul Aziz Al-Khalifa, Minister of Education and head of the delegation of Bahrain.  ; (opp) dads JT) ws rdllàvlee — A)  fg, 35Lautly Jladlo Lol Sp Lai] pad) aud) Es dal yudee TMC TE JO. Ju | ry ven  AA pe € spip) *Ll
7 - Ca Li $£ = € = tarde sll dB ells abil) VAAY=) Avy Jed Bugs byl ase palo of ou), _  GB ayn) gL! ue Js ¥! Jail alia lot 5.8 poy + 1AYA—=)qYY oad a ally gob  oH! patiall Boel rbd JL a Be pny 5 Mol ogy V° pt 50a may ST 5 pet, 61 Meg LY)  re ph JEBIL lsd] le co lop) ce un Lot ob 85 cpllall 5 oly onlly Pl a0) sf Lai cans  pled! pes Wall only 56 RC etd) Vin pe 3,5 LAB)  .. 118 F + Jéle Vpn YL EV PR LL SCV | BU IRS SLI 5 pion Spotl po AS Ll LAN  Say obs de oS SL Ss + Real Saad asd! das pps gl  valgj-ae ob GEC os p  ale Pld) ye & usd, JI eal Jill ge ais * sad Jg3 Sans Lists) Lib ab, ao Cait] a (5, IL 51  + p Xo 5 CAS 55 loll pri 01 Gore so lyomadl ppd lan, oF BoE 9e JL ou)
3255 65 oT Lud a besyslàel 009 + Wl Ge ax, baie VIS Shy eos ll 5h05)  "ly ety ds Babin yt on BIS cdl ly Lb) Lans Jill SL abot 0 on  allies ge oo ein 30 las 17 855  CEL lal y reo SIL Tu (op) 4 Bll) cel publ) oli! Brel Son  do pes BE hab VI LoS ley Sipe Be pus Gulatlle Jul oF Bis 0p VA BY)  pol Sassi ols RON INT AL US 5. PLL ENTER OI IIA | HT J PAPUA EWC]  de of ba Yi ol ue Lg Ab Vin la BI SI Cael) ST La Lo $e) cp lad) 383 55 BI  LT Sy és IL ee ina bn le muet) ska Valois dalle ol 5 ous  Oy Jal Bo 5 le LI Si Las) ya Seis LE 1 ue 1356 oF LS on  inky carl Cay Vig 2 Lut Vly 3B Gn Dal ue pui ame YI Sadly co BJ 0 dp pion L 151 go  GI = Ye fon Noise, Sells 7151 sua be cod Sy «Lili leg Libse Hake  Ye Ga Le plod) A) ibe pon Be V1 Call pads Sa Sy +0 Jia] Ge lpno or 45 L  pi BIT 5 BY leas oT Oa pL oly gall bbs 5H Se cis EH or oe  te Gb 5 plall all ake Gibgall JUS $95 oT om Vas ld! le db oe Les os: Sr  pl A1 5e Jas) 5 aba LI Ga Bal Le, LE, als go La de etaetis HI a  CSS AE LS ET Elo de 455 995 SA ROA SL ol Jb oy plied] JES Coe *Lac Yl 1uldly  Neral GLI ys Baliinld SVat ll 95 ss Sos! ole ©5098 SST Grek ges Ls DL  : Ys te le hôteipe Lys! Se Sephlal i 5 dois Sp LS ll 3 vol pe Yn Je Lis eld régis té ous LL  a EE BIOS Fla ise Lee eb]
5! 2355 paie) 8,10 pr Bp ath VI pai) py gait + Le bles apy 0 Ls 1 ial 6 pe dsl  +5 by somal) dla oe mg psdly spade! Gly 0 18 y tâgog 1 3 Lidl aS ag cdl ply dio  oe ie SA) 5 Crp LI pial ly all pnts oT mal (055 ey BU WF ony lie UN, de  oe geld] gn     eh 5 Bloggin (18,50 ial ile ca 5e fT Ie (ets pd Mt RE  à£,at, a5) anal eq :554J1 Lis sn oykpiel oz à ladles he a; log a Lg of Ba La YI  LsBgag pw BIN 355 Le 00 OS € ) eg 23,880) Wand Lise 05), ced laadly SEY on Jolin y 951 pa Lill  Sil pled] Lu pois p 5 rei Jolie Paie us eds 81 oe Laz) Ta ope JêLes) Ls) y lil  ra æ Lopasy cheb Ye Lu Bt >< lys)! 092 re Pa pty ple oP oS lel Nes!  sly Las A AIS ES 13e OR po las dls] py SUB SREY] JLs II ads gl J, RIS |  ox ol Joy Ls la «W&T3,68 dal 3 5a) 5 ad) Laat) Sis Joong dud le tk SU 51 gad  opal Judy tay! sys sl vs oo a La Yl JleYl 6 de lay! Là, 0b add)  os tant Iles oF Slo) pagans abode sul oT Jhon le mob paye gti Lit oi Vi
133i lois ob JE) Jane by + logé Joel pl aiheall 5 fle ST 35 44 Sept sty  dette WW Loti on ® mshnpag oll” Sal, abs Spall a ob Ve GI Bl rap Loli  sles bund Lys Bi pes + yy) o 133800 5 oy 51 Je CAEL Forshee a8 3955 YI
2 pian) se dl lis wall italie plats lal iat lo of  vs 7e el gall & 299 bags cd 0 ludo ela Lee a has cps acd) 550 36 UI Ly oy  O mea)! Ds Lanbie Le cotpnz AE =o 7p) HMS dad! pnd de 6 ye  bill ode ÿ JS sl pn plall juss 51 ESRI Bigod! . pudige SI ud] of ot Long és)  = opin] Gl mio léebiell ed) dal a lag B13) US Jh ob JBY slew of abs  mn slo Bolly lad) Li SU 1S spa Lal Tost yb Jb Bye aus oF on Godly lll Gb oF  cai, alll das (Solo duty Solis!
(8.1) Mr. AL-KHALIFA (Bahrain) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr. President, Mr. Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr. Director-General, excellencies, heads  and members of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, may I, Mr. President, extend to you sincere congra-  tulations on your election as President of the session, wishing you success in leading this Conference  towards the achievement of its goals. I would also like to express my thanks to the Government of this  beautiful country for hosting this Conference, regardless of all difficulties, and for exerting every possible  effort to overcome all the obstacles and to provide all the necessary facilities so as to ensure the full  success of the Conference.
(8.2) Ladies and gentlemen, we all take pride in belonging to Unesco, which constitutes the best instrument  for serving man at present and in the future. The fields of competence of this Organization, namely, educa-  tion, science and culture, are closely related to man's present and future. In other words, this Organiza-  tion provides the best means for people to serve each other, through the exchange of knowledge and  experience. If this is beneficial for mankind as a whole, its benefit would surely be greater for the  developing countries and for countries that lack resources.
(8.3) I need not reiterate that the Organization is fully aware of its role in this respect. The holding =  the present session of the General Conference in this developing country bears witness to this fact. The  agenda of the present session includes an item concerning the venue of the next session, which I hope Will  be held in another developing country.
(8.4) There is also abundant evidence that this Organization is serv  clearly seen in the Organization's Medium-Term Plan 1977-19 i  Budget for 1977-1978. Before referring briefly to sn two ne = pt Programme and  Organization's road towards the achievement of its noble objectives and the er = >  tions is not strewn with flowers. The powers of evil and aggression in the world a of its good inten-  and stumbling blocks in the Organization's way, and put spokes in its wheel es rected obstacles  ing an effective role in supporting humanitarian causes and from adopting an even-h pes it from play-  with aggression and oppression. n-handed policy in dealing  ing the cause of man. This can be
(8.5) I would like now to refer in brief to the Medium-Term Plan (  Programme and Budget for 1977-1978. However much one may appreciate the contents of the fi entitled "Assurance of Human Rights", it is inconceivable to promote something which nl ad  all in some parts of the world such as usurped and occupied Palestine, whose pren a aly  throughout the world at the hands of wicked and aggressive powers. Its youth has been EN scattered  with women and children in them have been destroyed. The only haven left for the remaind f ; camps  tinian people is the conscience of the world. er of the Pales-
1977-1982), before dealing with the
(8.6) We speak about racial discrimination in other parts of the world such as South Africa, Israel's  natural ally. We refer to citizens isolated in their own countries because of odious racial discrimination  But what about a people without a homeland, or rather a people whose country has been usurped through .  oppression and aggression? The same could be applied to Chapter II which deals with reinforcement of  peace. One wonders to how there can be coexistence between peace and aggression. In other words  aggression is imposed by the force of arms, and then people start to talk about peace. The late Ahmed  Shawky, the leading figure in modern Arabic poetry, once said that the arguments of the strong, like  those of the beasts of the jungle, are substantiated by sheer brute force.
(8.7) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of the limited possibilities of Unesco. Accord-  ing to the objectives contained in its Constitution, Unesco sets out to establish human rights and peace  within certain limits. Unesco's programme, therefore, is confined to research and education in these two  fields. However, this does not mean that we should refrain from raising relevant questions. On the other  hand, we are pleased to notice that man is at the very centre of the following chapters, especially the  third, fourth and fifth, in conformity with the Constitution of the Organization and in pursuit of the idea  that "'a happy society is made up of happy individuals".
(8.8) I turn now to the programme of the next biennium (document 19 C/5) and I begin by paragraph 1345,  which deals with the Regional Offices of Education. My comment here applies to all Unesco's Regional  Offices and Centres, whether in the fields of education, science, culture or information, because it springs  from a central concept. In my speech to the eighteenth session of the General Conference, I proposed  giving additional powers to the Unesco Regional Offices and Centres. In fact I am pleased to note that these  powers have actually increased during the last two years. However, we are looking forward to a further  consolidation of these powers to cope with the situation. We believe that the Unesco projects in the differ-  ent Member States would be better executed and would produce much more profitable results, if these  Regional Centres and Offices were to be accorded adequate powers and guidance. Naturally this would  imply an increase in its personnel and budgets, but I do not intend here to call for an increase in the  Unesco budget, because I am fully aware of the difficulties the Organization is facing at the present time.  Regional Offices could be consolidated by some staff members from the Headquarters in Paris since it  would be useful for a Unesco staff member engaged in educational planning for a developing country, for  example, to go and live in the region in which this country is situated, so as to be better acquainted with  its conditions, instead of staying at Headquarters under environmental conditions that differ completely  from those of the country in question. All of us know the heavy costs incurred as a result of staff travel  between Headquarters and the Member States in which projects are implemented. We hope that these  Regional Centres and Offices will constitute dynamic focal points geared to the implementation of as  many components as possible of Unesco programme, The role of Headquarters should be that of co-  ordination and legislation, like the United Nations University, which has a Co-ordinating Centre in  Japan as well as subsidiary centres in all the regions of the world, every centre of which being con-  cerned with the problems of its respective region.
(8.9) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the section relating to Science in the Contemporary World  (paragraphs 2003-2015) is worthy of careful study. Its aim is to render scientific progress beneficial  to mankind, and to prevent, at the same time, the misuse of scientific discoveries. Unfortunately, every  new day brings with it new weapons of destruction and annihilation. But we note that this section has  another objective, namely the simplification and propagation of science and technology. This objective  is of interest to us. The problem which we are facing, together with some developing countries, at least  in our region, is that students shun specialization in science at university level because there is a wide-  spread impression that science studies are difficult. Consequently, we have a surplus of arts graduates  while we are in dire need of science graduates. We hope that this section of the programme will help  promote public information in the fields of science and technology.
(8.10) Our attention has been drawn to the section on Study of Development (paragraph 3003). In my  opinion, development has several implications, the simplest of which is economic development as we 55  it in our contemporary world. It may be useful to link the economic development process to society. 3s  scientific progress has its dangers, illustrated by the destructive weapons referred to earlier, economic  development also has its drawbacks. Economic developments should not have a harmful impact on the  society as reflected in rampant crime, pollution, complexity of daily life, disintegration of the sas  which constitutes the backbone of society, and departure from the teachings of religion. We can, i i  respect, derive useful lessons from what is happening in some countries, hoping that the studies foreseen  in paragraph 3010 will take heed of these lessons.  bt that you still remember the Arab delega-
(8.11) Mr. i i there is no dou ; ) r. President, ladies and gentlemen, i nd protection of humanity's  tions! repeated references to the subject of the preservation, : a  cultural heritage against raat actions. I have read paragraph 4. 93 Tn pe  of international solidarity for the preservation of monuments and sites. I paid RT dl  Paragraph 4104 relating to the preservation of the city and site of Jerusalem. hay won I) i  import of this international solidarity, when we consider the different stages of the exc
18 by the Israeli authorities since the occupation of Jerusalem in 1967, and which have not spared anything  including things sacred to Islam. Moreover, these destructive, irresponsible acts have recently Tron  worse like an incurable disease. We hope that the Cultural Commission will be able to define the nature  of Unesco's presence in that city referred to in the above-mentioned paragraph. We hope that the Organi-  zation will be able to put an end to these criminal acts directed against the heritage of mankind, as well  as against history and science.
(8.12) I have a final remark, a technical one, regarding the Draft Programme. I hope that the translation  of Unesco documents will be much more accurate, as regards formulation and terminology. As an exam-  ple, I may cite the Arabic title of paragraph 3021 l"Sociological analysis of education programmes. ",  I think what is meant by ''sociological” is social analysis because the word here used for "sociological  does not exist in Arabic. There is a similar example in paragraph 3210. Though I am fully appreciative  of brevity, I find some of the abbreviations odd and incongruous in Arabic. We accept that the abbreviation  for United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization could be Unesco, and that for the  Arab Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization could be ALECSO, but it would be very hard to  accept "'Midfa'an'' as an Arabic abbreviation for the International Council for Philosophy and Humanistic  Studies. The objectives of this Council are noble and peaceful, and they are diametrically opposed to even  one gun, let alone two guns, the literal meaning of this acronym.
(8.13) What is much more serious Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, is what is contained in para-  graphs 224-230 of the Director-General's Introduction, concerning the grave difficulties that our Organiza-  tion faced during the last two years. I would like to refer here to two facts. The first is that the General  Conference is the supreme organ of this Organization, and it has to prove that it still is and will continue  to be so. The second is that it would be much better for this Organization to advance haltingly on the  right path than to proceed quickly in the wrong direction. Thank you ladies and gentlemen for your kind  attention.  od gq
301 Rois cGurmedl 459 ess CTL VOCS TR PALES | EIRP | RTPI] 1 JE) PO | FSP WE  PIU WIT 5e DREN CES SET PE SIV TEX LP EL LE spl ED SP JT NON  cSt
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank Al-Khalifa, the head of the delegation of Bahrain, and I call on Dr. Aguirre Beltrân, Under-  Secretary of Popular Culture and Out-of-School Education of the Ministry of Education of Mexico.
(10.1) Mr. AGUIRRE BELTRAN (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish): A  Mr. President, distinguished delegates: It is for the delegation ‘of Mexico a source of great satisfac-  tion to have participated in your election as President of the General Conference. Your brilliant career  and your widely recognized devotion to the work of Unesco are a warrant of the success of this meeting.
(10.2) Our host country is part of a continent that is all too familiar with the struggle to strengthen its  independence vis-à-vis the major decision-making centres. Africa has had to stand up valiantly to aggre  sion from systems of dominance that have sought - sometimes with success - to maintain the nations of
702      the Third World outside the pale of progress, in a state of servitude that i at i  thing of the past. 1s today tending to become a
(10. 3) We can also assess here the contribution made by Unesco to the disaliena  redefinition of science's goals in humanistic terms, to the promo  the encouragement of disinterested co-operation among nations.  : tion of society, to the tion and defence of human rights and to
(10. 4) Mr. M'Bow stated, with his characteristic lucidity, that as Director-General of  seek to be guided in the fulfilment of his duties by the spirit and the wisdom of Africa, si 1  in their hearts and minds the stamp of the culture from which they come. We have Re men bear  satisfaction that this intention has been fulfilled, and that the direction followed by the Organi parier  task of overcoming past difficulties and of tackling the new demands made by the age in US ion in the  owes a great deal to its fulfilment. we live  Unesco he would
(10.5) As time goes by, Unesco's mission becomes ever more difficult.  the satisfaction of certain of man's most cherished aspirations but also - and this is the essential point  the creation of a future in which the spectres of the world's total destruction, of injustice tony all those impediments to the individual's full development will be dispelled. We are well aware that the  establishment of a new economic order is not welcomed by everyone. There are some whose ambition  is still to freeze history in order to continue to benefit from the disadvantages which the Third World  countries suffer. For some, it is natural that there should still exist direct or indirect means of domina-  tion. We are aware that the combat waged by Unesco must be based on persuasion and appeals to intelli-  gence, rather than on challenge and discord; but it appears today inevitable that the most disadvantaged  nations must reject the attempts of the most powerful ones to exercise control over the liberation struggle  of oppressed peoples in all spheres of international life.  On its success depends not only
(10.6) During a visit that he paid to Unesco, the President of my country stated that we are observing  the awakening of the majority of mankind, which has reconquered through bloody struggles its political  rights and is determined to assert its cultural identity and to enjoy a fair share in the fruits of progress,  In this action, Unesco is playing a leading role. In fact, the ideas expressed in the Draft Medium-Term  Plan (1977-1982), contained in document 19 C/4 define the Organization's position with respect to what  has been aptly termed "the unitary human project”. I do not think I am mistaken in seeing in this docu-  ment the expression of Unesco's explicit support for the projects for renovation that are everywhere  emerging in opposition to the retrograde forces in the world.
(10.7) Direct consultation of Member States and non-governmental organizations, as also the setting up  of a Panel of Counsellors on major world problems and the contribution that Unesco could make to their  solution, are sound methods of drawing up the Draft Programme and Budget for 1977-1978. I wish to  express our approval in this respect as also in regard to the establishment of a programme by objectives.
(10.8) It is highly encouraging to note that document 19 C/5 limits itself to the main lines of emphasis  mapped out by the Draft Medium-Term Plan. We thus see that the Organization is contributing effectively  to the establishment of a new international order in the spheres of education, science, culture and com-  munication. We have also observed a growing awareness in Unesco that, if it is to bear fruits, this effort  must also be focused upon the economic and political aspects of world problems. To our mind, the results  yielded by the application of these methods are in fact very promising. We have noted with great ‘satisfac-  tion the concern shown by the Director-General and the Secretariat that the Organization should fulfil its  duty of contributing to the utmost to reducing the inequalities and injustices that exist in the world today,  in other words, to promoting a genuine new international economic order.
(10. 9) The attention that has been given to the various resolutions approved by the organs of the United  Nations in the preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget of the next biennium is most praiseworthy;  the United Nations system counts upon its Secretariats to redouble their efforts in order to achieve fruit-  ful co-operation. The Unesco Secretariat, if I may be allowed to stress the point, is in the forefront in  promoting the ideas contained in the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States.
(10.10) As to the programme itself, we note with satisfaction that the educational activities provided for  are geared to the medium-term objectives. Today it has become more than ever necessary to educate the  younger generations in respect for human rights, the reinforcement of peace and the search for new ways  to foster understanding among all the peoples of the world. The main thrust and the objectives of this  programme renew mankind's hope that educational work may come to be accepted as one of the major solu-  tions to the world's problems. Two items of particular importance to which I should like to refer in this  connection are the intensification of regional co-operation through the establishment of research, innova-  tion and co-operation networks, and the renewal of the structures, contents, methods and techniques of  formal and non-formal education in the context of lifelong education. The assistance provided by Unesco  in these fields is vitally important, and in the case of Third World countries should remain linked with  the projected literacy and rural development activities. My Government is most grateful for the special ;  attention that has been given to such institutions as the Regional Centre for Adult Education and Functiona  Literacy for Latin America.
(10.11) With respect to the Regional Offices, and in particular the initial and further training of ey  and engineers responsible for educational buildings, it is my view that, since the Regional School Building  Centre for Latin America and the Caribbean specializes in this question, Unesco should commission it  to carry out specific research projects relating to buildings, their furnishing, Eauipment and ane  as also school building investment programmes and their evaluation, naturally in conjunction wi  Organization's own specialists.
(10.12) At the Fourth General Conference of National Commissions of Latin America and od aa  held in Bogoté from 12 to 16 July last, tribute was paid to Unesco's efforts to Te Io  ments of the region in training personnel with specialized qualifications in the Tn e pe End  nology, thereby helping to improve both qualitatively and quantitatively the application o nena)  development programmes. For this purpose it was also considered desirable to se ES de le  Conference of Unesco that programmes and activities carried out with the Instituto Latin  Comunicaciôn Educativa be stepped up in the Programme for 1977-1978.
18 (10.13) With respect to science and technology, we endorse the Director-General's opinion that Unesco  should expand its activities designed to redress the imbalance that exists in these spheres between the  industrialized and the developing countries; this must be done l'as quickly as possible, with firmer Support  from international and regional bodies concerned with development and financing which have not so far  attributed sufficient importance to science and technology". The problem is indeed a complex one. We  know that it is not a matter of simply transferring knowledge and know-how. Unesco should seek means  of securing for the developing countries a wider access to scientific knowledge. In this respect, I trust  that the United Nations Conference on the Application of Science and Technology to Development, scheduled  for 1979, will clear up a number of points regarding the strategy to be followed. In the meanwhile, a  number of multilateral and regional agreements have enabled substantial, albeit not wholly satisfactory,  progress to be made in the formulation of science and technology policies. We frequently encounter a  paternalist attitude on the part of the States which possess and transfer most of the available scientific  and technical information. In addition to the dangers resulting from the improper use of science and tech-  nology, this creates obstacles to the establishment of peace and fellowship between nations.
(10. 14) Of the main elements of the programme relating to social sciences, the most significant are,  in our view, those relating to the following objectives: research concerning human rights; the status of  women; the study of international law and international organizations; conditions which might facilitate  development processes; and population trends. This does not mean that the rest of the activities and  objectives included in the social sciences programme are of negligible value, but I believe that to give  preferential treatment in the budget to the above-mentioned items is to concentrate on matters of priority  importance and of the greatest urgency. My delegation welcomes the decision of Unesco's Executive Board,  taken at its 100th session, to authorize the Director-General to negotiate with the Secretary-General of  the Latin American Faculty of Social Sciences a draft Agreement between the two Organizations. I should  like to mention in this connection that, under the auspices of my country's Government, a Centre for Third  World Economic and Social Studies has been set up in Mexico City as a contribution by Mexico to the’ study,  inter alia, of sociology, culture and education in the service of the development of the Third World.
(10.15) We have certain reservations concerning the grouping together in a single chapter of culture and  communication. While the reasons adduced for this amalgamation are in our view valid ones, we cannot  forget that for many countries the mass media represent the greatest enemies of national culture, bearing  in mind certain familiar tendencies towards the manipulation of public opinion, the distortion of reality  sometimes caused by advertising and above all the fact that in most countries throughout the world the  cultural minorities have no access to the media. An international cultural programme should, in our view,  encourage the active involvement of all intellectual and artistic movements in transforming the present  situation with respect to communication. Every country has the inalienable right to defend its sovereignty.  The major broadcasting systems should be subject to the legal provisions of the sovereign States relating  to the reception of broadcasts. The penetration achieved by certain broadcasting centres that are alien to  the nature and spirit of the nations to whom their broadcasts are directed constitutes a disturbing issue  that Unesco cannot side-step. Certain regional integration programmes should be encouraged to ensure  that the countries concerned join their efforts in defence of their common traditional characteristics, as  was recommended at the Intergovernmental Conference on Communication Policies in Latin America and  the Caribbean held in San José from 12 to 21 July last.
(10.16) I should like to reiterate our whole-hearted approval of the efforts made by Unesco to promote the  study and enhancement of the indigenous cultures of the American continent; we are particularly in favour  of programmes designed to facilitate the mutual appreciation of cultures as a factor of international  understanding.
(10.17) Increasing the number of publications intended for the general public and making more active use  of audio-visual media will fill a gap in the Organization's capacity to reach the broad masses of the  population.
(10. 18) Conscious of the Organization's financial difficulties, we cannot but congratulate the Director-  General on his effective administration. If Unesco's objectives are to be successfully attained, it was of  paramount importance that the measures of assistance to the National Commissions of those countries that  have not yet achieved an adequate level of development should be increased.
(10.19) I wish to express our satisfaction at the fact that, on the Director-General's initiative, provision  has been made in the Draft Programme and Budget for a considerable expansion in the use of Spanish in  meetings organized by Unesco, as also in its publications and documents. Satisfaction is thereby given  to the requests expressed by the General Conference and the Executive Board that a wider geographical  and cultural representation of authors be secured.
(10.20) Lastly, I wish to place on record our resolute support for the diversification of exchanges in the  spheres of Unesco's competence. We recognize the principle of ideological pluralism and trust that the  full significance of our firm intention to collaborate in the defence of the right of all peoples on earth  to maintain their cultural independence and to make their presence felt in the constellation of universal  culture will be recognized. Thank you.  oid =)  FP 9 [oe 1 FP WOO SUIS WIC 0 OUR Bey dal 5, FS SUP | 1) =) IOS: {LR ue) VS  coll) why Gus Bole, Atty BE stl i oY gh cred) 3 0 La ML
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic): :  I thank Mr. Aguirre Beltran and I now call upon H.E. Mr. Goura Lassou, Minister of Education,  Culture, Youth and Sports, and head of the delegation of Chad.
12,1 M. LASSOU (Tchad). -  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais m'associer aux délégations qui m'  présenter toutes les félicitations de la délégation tchadienne pour votre b  présidence de la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco. Votre électi procède pas seulement d'une tradition, mais témoigne d'une volonté délibérée de la entrer 5 générale de notre Organisation de marquer d'une pierre blanche sa première session afric en En effet, depuis la création de l'Unesco, c'est la première fois que la Conférence tient ray sessions en Afrique. Au demeurant, il ne s'agit pas de n'importe quelle région d'Afrique oe  du Kenya, berceau présumé de l'humanité. CH  ont précédé pour vous  rillante élection à la
12.2 Monsieur le Président, la délégation tchadienne se félicite de votre élection. Elle s'en  félicite parce que la contribution du Kenya à la lutte des peuples pour leur libération, leur liberté  et leur dignité n'est plus à démontrer. Elle s'en félicite aussi parce que vos qualités d'homme  d'Etat et votre connaissance des problèmes internationaux vous permettront de diriger avec auto-  rité et sagacité nos travaux, afin que les différents problèmes qui se posent puissent trouver une  juste et heureuse solution conformément aux principes de notre Organisation. Je voudrais vous  assurer, Monsieur le Président, de la collaboration totale de la délégation tchadienne.
12.3 Je voudrais rendre un hommage mérité à votre prédécesseur, S. Exc. Mme Magda Joboru  dont l'autorité et la sagesse avaient permis de mener avec méthode, doigté et brio les travaux t  combien difficiles et délicats de la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale.
12.4 Qu'il me soit permis d'exprimer les meilleurs sentiments de ma délégation et de mon pays  à M, Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, directeur général de l'Unesco, dont le dévouement à la cause de la  coopération internationale, la fermeté avec laquelle il a rejeté les allégations malveillantes de  certains Etats membres et l'attention toute particulière qu'il accorde à l'exécution des résolutions  de la Conférence générale, se sont manifestés tout au long des deux premières années de son  mandat.
12,5 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais saisir l'occasion de la célébration, aujourd'hui, du  trentième anniversaire de l'Unesco, pour réaffirmer notre attachement à ses principes  fondamentaux.
12,6 Au nom de ma délégation et de mon pays, je salue les nouveaux Etats membres, à savoir la  République socialiste du Viét-nam, le Surinam, la Papouasie Nouvelle-Guinée, le Mozambique,  la Grenade, les Seychelles et la République populaire d'Angola,
12.7 Monsieur le Président, tandis que l'Unesco s'emploie à renforcer la compréhension et la  coopération internationales au service de la paix, à l'heure où nous sommes réunis ici, çà et là  dans le monde des foyers de tension sont encore en activité. Plus nous avançons dans l'ère de la  technologie et de la science, plus les ténèbres de la-discrimination raciale, du colonialisme, du  néocolonialisme, de l'expansionnisme, du sionisme, et j'en passe, obscurcissent les consciences.  On a parfois la douloureuse impression que les forces du mal sont infiniment plus agissantes que  les forces du bien. Fort heureusement, il ne s'agit que d'une impression et dans la réalité les  victoires des forces révolutionnaires sont nombreuses, spectaculaires et irréversibles, Les vic-  toires que s'attribue le camp des réactionnaires ne sont que les soubresauts de l'agonie. Je  voudrais néanmoins saisir cette occasion pour rappeler la position de mon pays face aux problèmes  brülants qui menacent la sécurité et la paix internationales, et partant, la coopération internationale.
12,8 En Namibie, tous les efforts déployés pour trouver une solution sont ignorés par la clique  des bandits qui veulent perpétuer leur domination sur ce pays doté d'énormes ressources naturelles.  La légitime aspiration du peuple namibien à la liberté, à la justice et à la dignité ne se réalisera  que lorsque l'unité nationale et l'intégrité territoriale seront garanties. Nous dénonçons sans  ambages la création par le régime de l'apartheid des foyers dits bantoustans. La création des  bantoustans vise à perpétuer la politique inhumaine de l'apartheid et à détruire l'intégrité du pays,  tout en accentuant la domination de la minorité blanche. Le peuple tchadien, par la voix de sa  délégation à la présente session, condamne sans appel l'indépendance du prétendu Transkei. Nous  réitérons ici la position que le Conseil suprême militaire et le gouvernement tchadien ont prise  le jour même où cette prétendue indépendance a été proclamée. Nous dénonçons également les  prétendues conversations constitutionnelles de Windhoek, qui regroupent en fait de sinistres indi-  vidus dont l'allégeance au régime de Vorster ne fait aucun doute. Nous pensons que toute tentative  visant à exclure la SWAPO, émanation du peuple namibien et son seul représentant, est vouée à  l'échec.
12.9 En Afrique du Sud, le déclenchement du mouvement national montre à l'évidence la volonté  des masses noires laborieuses de mettre fin au régime tyrannique de l'apartheid. Que les alliés  du sinistre Vorster sachent qu'ils ne continueront pas à vendre impunément des matériels de  Guerre à l'Afrique du Sud ou à l'aider à en fabriquer. En Rhodésie, toute initiative visant à eli  miner lan Smith et ses acolytes rencontrera l'appui total du peuple tchadien, pourvu que ces ini-  tatives tiennent compte des aspirations légitimes du peuple du Zimbabwe.  rmination de l'Unesco qui, par
12,10 Monsi i i 1 le de louer la déte nsieur le Président, il m'est agréable de apartheid, mène sur le plan de  ses différentes résolutions, ses études et ses publications sur q
18 l'intellect, une lutte comparable à celle des masses noires de l'Azanie. Dans sa résolution 3411  (XXX), l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies déclarait illégitime le régime raciste minoritaire  d'Afrique du Sud, et crime international la politique de l'apartheid. Comment expliquer le silence  de la communauté internationale devant la livraison d'armes de plus en plus sophistiquées par des  puissances dont certaines ont des pieds d'argile ? La communauté internationale est-elle aveugle ?  Trouve-t-elle normales les répressions criminelles et gratuites qui s'abattent sur l'Afrique du  Sud ?
12,11 Monsieur le Président, les problèmes qui se posent en Afrique australe se retrouvent mal-  heureusement dans d'autres parties de l'Afrique et du monde, où des peuples sont encore soumis  à l'impérialisme, au colonialisme, au racisme et au sionisme. Le fait que l'ancienne puissance  colonisatrice foule aux pieds l'unité nationale et l'intégrité territoriale des Comores nous paraît  inadmissible. Le Conseil suprême militaire et le gouvernement tchadien considèrent que la balka-  nisation ou l'occupation d'une partie du territoire d'un Etat, quels qu'en soient les mobiles, est  un acte extrêmement grave. L'appétit expansionniste qu'un Etat développé ou sous-développé,  petit ou grand, manifeste au mépris du droit international, qu'il soit encouragé ou non par les  puissances impérialistes décadentes qui ne vivent que de livraisons d'armes, doit être systéma-  tiquement condamné et combattu.
12.12 Je voudrais saisir cette occasion pour réaffirmer la position du gouvernement tchadien face  à une campagne savamment orchestrée qui tend à faire croire que le Tchad a cédé une partie de  son territoire à la Libye, moyennant une aide économique substantielle. Nous estimons qu'il n'est  pas nécessaire de faire parler les armes pour que les néo-hitlériens qui rêvent d'élargir leur  espace vital, comprennent enfin que le peuple et le gouvernement tchadiens ne céderont jamais  aucun pouce de leur territoire, qu'ils ne transigeront jamais sur l'intégrité territoriale du pays.  Que cela soit entendu une fois pour toutes. Que les Etats membres de l'OUA, les pays non alignés,  les pays du Tiers Monde ne se laissent pas prendre au jeu subtil des pays impérialistes qui créent  ici et là des foyers de guerre, afin d'assurer leur propre paix et de vendre des canons pour faire  face aux difficultés de leurs balances de paiements.
12.13 Monsieur le Président, lors de sa sixième session extraordinaire tenue en 1974, l'Assemblée  générale des Nations Unies avait proclamé solennellement sa ''détermination de travailler d'urgence  à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international fondé sur l'équité, l'égalité souveraine,  l'interdépendance, l'intérêt commun et la coopération entre tous les Etats, indépendamment de  leur système économique et social, qui corrigera les inégalités et rectifiera les injustices actuelles,  permettra d'éliminer le fossé croissant entre les pays développés et les pays en voie de dévelop-  pement et assurera dans la paix et la justice aux générations présentes et futures un développe-  ment économique et social qui ira en s'accélérant''. Cette résolution est l'expression des graves  inquiétudes des pays en développement devant l'évolution des relations économiques internationales,  Depuis cette résolution on ne constate aucun changement, les CNUCED se succèdent, la Conférence  nord-sud piétine, les riches continuent de s'enrichir et les pauvres de s'appauvrir. La commu-  nauté internationale doit-elle être indulgente face à 1'égoisme des pays nantis qui cautionnent cet  état de choses ?
12.14 Dans la mesure où l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international suppose que  l'on fasse preuve d'imagination pour satisfaire les aspirations légitimes des masses laborieuses,  ma délégation pense que l'Unesco se doit d'apporter sa contribution au progrès de la pensée et de  l'action visant à instaurer ce nouvel ordre. En effet, l'on ne peut envisager un nouvel ordre mon-  dial plus équitable sans prendre en considération les exigences de l'éducation, de la science et de  la culture, et sans tirer profit des lumières qu'elles peuvent apporter.
12,15 Me tournant vers les nations pauvres de la communauté internationale, je voudrais tout  simplement dire que la dynamique de notre développement ne peut se limiter à l'amélioration des  rapports nord-sud, mais doit également viser au renforcement»de la coopération économique entre  les pays en développement, afin que la notion d'autonomie collective se traduise par des mesures  concrètes,
12.16 Monsieur le Président, l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique internationale en tant  qu'action globale suppose aussi la prise en considération des facteurs scientifiques et technolo-  giques. La science et la technique sont, dans les conditions actuelles, l'apanage des pays nantis  qui s'en réservent la quasi-exclusivité et deviennent ainsi des puissances technologiques, poli-  tiques et militaires. Le pouvoir que la science et la technologie confèrent ne va pas sans menacer  la paix internationale. Les appétits expansionnistes persistent dans certains pays développés et se  manifestent même dans les pays en développement. En réalité, les puissances impérialistes sus-  citent de pareils appétits dans les pays défavorisés dans le dessein de multiplier les marchés  pour leurs armements. Ces tendances expansionnistes, qui viennent s'ajouter aux conflits armés,  visent toujours les régions les plus déshéritées et absorbent des sommes énormes qui serviraient  à éliminer la misère et à redonner leur dignité à des millions d'hommes. En fait, le pouvoir de  la technologie et de la science est ambivalent : d'une part, elles dispensent de nombreux bienfaits  à l'humanité, d'autre part, elles entrafnent une production et une accumulation d'engins de des-  truction, Cette production et cette accumulation apparaissent comme la négation de tous les Eu  déployés pour instaurer la paix internationale dans la justice, l'égalité et le respect mutuel. Indé-  niablement, si la paix n'est pas instaurée, si les tensions internationales ne s'atténuent pas,
706   aucun des problèmes auxquels l'humanité doit faire face ne pourra être correct  toutes les ressources resteront mobilisées au profit de la fabrication damien ie : nts,
12.17 Monsieur le Président, en sa qualité d'institution spéciali ;  tion, de la culture, de la ‘science et de la communication, mow, eo de l'éduca-  jouer dans l'effort à entreprendre en vue du renforcement dela coopération > ement un rôle à  l'action en faveur du développement. En contribuant à la réflexion sur IE ny et de  ordre économique international et a son application dans les domaines de I tater CR  ture, de la science et de la technologie, l'Unesco respectera ses principes TER Sin cul -  vira la cause du progrès des peuples, des droits de l'homme et de la paix se ty on  nous croyons en l'Unesco, c'est pourquoi ma délégation pense qu'il faut Tai ne, = e Président,  poursuivre sa noble mission ; elle exprime sa réprobation devant le comportement ni pus de  Etats membres, qui pour des raisons qui n'échappent à personne, refusent de pa E NE  contributions. Je vous remercie, 2 payer leurs    (Mr. Toweett resumed the chair.)
13. The PRESIDENT:  | Ladies and gentlemen, on your behalf I thank the leader of the delegation of Chad, and I now  call on Mr. Ibrahim Souss, the representative of the Palestine Liberation Organization  gy, Cell eg} hate] opal pall tpl yey  doll Lt = lu! Lele p lad) al RTI TITY el!  LSE salle ns; 5, Laas! ole all pil oT Gut a SAFRAN lys} pulls onl,  (dr os Vds LAS M A POR ROO RT. WT FOV STIR PRO ol va)  Lis apr out, S21 01 05] LS. Sago! oF Beeld] poll Gabi fee depui) yaad 3 Lad 3 9 0) de  coat 38) Sp 51 1 pm ly alo Naa SYN Lal) Sp abel) Tia Blas) lb AA Sly  else july EY Lats dpi) ya logy raie aille Los La sab J) Boal!  sled! Jaspal Lid tae     l'a Ra] Joos ge cazdy oJ dataial lode cl 5 pla! (rf A RH Ta > =) OY  dpt 000 ro btn cle Ls SS gy go BEI Jy pad) 5a ally pales Vega)  aS)  oe - 3 3 € = = - =  | Buo¥ly dps V1 MI Lunel go el 1 95s cpl] Si OX YAO RAI CTI ik an RE  | v— el Gad 0 Lal ral & Less oslo Val aol La 59 55039 L'U959 prés © la Lu (2 1  cad ola) Lass) nella) LS 8 sg gual lise  “oe . = I = = ;  == El Je leans Lebo cole L'ILE Ug, bises cuba) boas Sr el 54e —) 8  Denny l 8 Lig étuis Al ple die Dba Il cos di p Les ons clay od Bea Lead coo Vp La BV a  | Cat ge 55 Log oo Ath ls A005 JL YL au lial JB cdot Juge «cle JE lu leon  SUNT JULES CRT OR SE | JOR [ST Seve oli Loe Lhe cod dy om gl 5505 LEST cig ou oF  + hell Coat) PWS ae, à mss ol Jbl JG GR AS soe ga Gud! 8 LL (LY  GC =a ai, 59 eo, Jas) Grbealls ol So Jas Ye lgs ai, 0 ls dl 858 0 US ls, —) $0  bps Les gl 5, Ve US aiid of ate Ban Jide bw asl GR  Us 6 ain Bmp plo) Lon /guine 598 das Jin Yn Ia a55  3) él ia] Jaf dba —y¢ 1
030. gg Led pry lion ls Unc Jas 355 6 Jas 95 (511336 ny pa ¢ Lay 08 has of desl! yo  bes € pe als EI nus oly aki Ye Lead) Lz al LIL pr 3,1 (ob dis ol isle! Lo ns dj]  eee Io YB Le (pes lg in VI 9d 07 WI Lf Las!  be pall boll 51 los pbinli pT Sl peat SI shall nd)! gop UBS 15 Ibn 2 —Ny  Lo Luidly 3 ood) Bap lite ly 0g JB Bf pad! 5 lay  Codd 55. of Va Ah lif) duagid] Sas rer oll, Lie bp (5 02 > léel21,e No Llc] Fl be YA  ddl Laos, inn Lt I Lab 5 lies hell Selly cb GJ) publi!  ° 08 Joly Baegdy nd a! élu L als pM BRE it Jus  bois pis o Teds boy : hall pes) S13, Lal aT lal à de it ol debut ede 5) —) € 54  Bd eh) ge Li teins ge ST Gp ques ill Bk él oe
18 ed et dafastist bY, cue Leddy puis] 05LE Lu Ya JE Gael LL edsiin Led ods 10  op BENE AN LE ets bole 51 ar dip ld 51 651 Jamal Ge ee] 5 IY gost  oo pepe 9) tes pôle ppd airs past 5 die C ol fe LS 0 lys of da ppt  sl Cyaëll Lols Hl apeall east 3). A IVS 2 Sonde ea he PSS Lote ges} Gane yg,
1 œlsl 538 loads Bb dLe ol cop li du de due colo! ally 6 Dba YI po es le  d_J5 A, cagagill Bully Sb! Ja YI Bes dat Sd LB 5 QUES oat) Laz!  a 50 Sp EA EER EL wa Le en We PR RRR TR ER TA RE es I  cay, ba) usu PHY pus ole 559 Spo 101 6 ugate dons = 508 of ose y cleat cs. eo  dyad ($ (ep de waar oll assis mtd] Gels] 5e Lab ose 61 097 ea ol See pre) FO] y fis  ashy  OEP I TRO PERT JO FR I PE BRL BO 5e ges}! tr «Lis uy yg)  Cle! Lm rss Buin, BT 5 Bm Lis) ly LET Lisle pun Sis AE ed Ll Las  ob dds . Luasëla oo LS debs oe SS] El L398 In 909 Gus dug pe Gp l ow 3h), 255,9
3_bi land, 511 6 din FL 1, Laslis, Ly BT pus slate Vo las JLasly Gop Be lo dood) ge Lillis pe Lie 15  Sats odin ob  ey GEE TIE ANTS SL MERE STI SE ICSI ane VENUE  oder te TS ee) CEE EIR) BA ete TO 0) I ER Ia FE  Bante Vall els ¥ IN (spin)! glad) ds Ba al is les Jeon ERIS LPN OR  SLI. F5 SS dss ps ogatdl pri I AN 3 he Ja ge WN Fos of Ld oer ¥ ll Le  oo ootalaymes ay Sls 5 se  Jer ih i Le I dpi pla Step IL SEI BY ea, lo BID ER Votan  elyal phi ply edits Gy) bats lie durs WV ag, all dn Lagoa; É ua dus li Ye Bally lu YI Ls
099 dbo) Ve ubabiige soe 6 Ghisedly Sly dlpT ÿ Lol Plane Ls 56 SA leas Yl Gye Canady imme Liles de Venn las i BY Tula pate ee dus Lal oneal YL, Lane  » Li, Las agptng Lass JLusl 32, b os bogey Gueb dash! alba oo publ pu!  ele Lis li yet ame Lt Fn EN 5e pl on, helen in Joong Lilli Gentilé  oo Shee all pe 4850 à 1002 Order GB (sey ima an, ul S I9ged) 7 2001 Los by od)
3a pe Blogtine Flu l plang 1955 aus 65 5 Be as (amg pu BIN agen) J je che  sigle 3, Las dass no pelt desc giana VB rs ¢ pinhinli)) 8 18 1 Les Yl  Cd 59 balle ens Joly .. atyas de as ls, a, Lan, Scant SES Let Joby uty) 5 das — OO NT  du Wl. tls) se ad) peal ad Joly dada 3, Land! 585 Ms) Ah li ln Lua)  ooh Las, bb oe A a Us. k Heel oe 3g! Vier) LS, Ls Up ass tl cla, Vly 5 Lans V1 695 pas  a ply Jul ame li pat ll 30151 pag 6 Lime pad I Gp a 8 II ADS 0g ++ Free vo Loss oe  JL Sad adn 1g, Landy « $Y ge lite Seon) Lid Bilis, Sat dal PH EC Ie | PY
3 + + EW IEA nie JUN JET oe ET BTL OR fr LS A Lins JS  Ell lB Sel Sends og, a, EE Lea Bic dy 5 2501 5 Ji 5 5  Glual aly a) Sahl p 084 Ja SEE on Ki ME. bu lae à halle lys ($08) Flom +0 Libs
1)  ngs oy ans) ty doll dnd 58) pb MEL NT Grass J Se he Ah il a3 10)
2300 8,94 Ss Lilie à ug! 0 dn (Geo at} Lai dns RI. ous ll al lg a5 slo Bd log cant  UNS fad olosse VV Gly 0 0 elite) ooh  Sloat oda Tus, Lol iia 3,5, 5 ae Sa. 5 le Jet lie Fe publ née PEA)
708         da ral he lo of Ath to io di Yet vu T° hkl Sony 5h asl) Sb) spas, sb IN GI 55 Ÿl Jay L. ae al  Este ee GET sll Bibl) oa haie te 8 eds 330 oo ell cI Le IO 0 SL EU ol Li n5 à OYE So 02 os) & à phase À PLIS AN WB ls 5 dl bel ES SSII pa AUS,  + Susigad) Le sous ai)  ihe ddl dial) Gedy eladl ols ¥1 505 Jang EN BL) bial al)  poral ph GUL LBW on By 0p aoe Spladp lb all Les a 53 5 n09 Bde  pla oliafetrshiphiatl! ol) halte 40 15. 3 tal liste ER M nn tee EL  + + 0 digg dao iio Oe ‘dâlss IG, 5) eben Jl & Sally oll  ol oly gy  à 4e 11 gall oan Josh) cub us AI SLY Jat LÎ SVE Lan  > ith Lys dole Nec gy il B00 kes 4 rallier dl ERR EMI Ee  yes La] 81S Glo oll edn Alb Girne 08 phil nil Labels 5 pall Lins 2k  pH bg al ble pts def Je 20 dal IEW LO COTE re  [payes lg Ve Lai LAIT oo le lo JEAN CUEL, pin abs of 0 ds. is,  sa 1185 11, Ls lol 2) JUS, sb pata! gl  VON  à ol Jp oly BI) (555 pets pant) 515 lo Bi lv GAS Liat Gs 1e dy Lao Baa dl odin LT) ed  ily a) dab) à Ja æ L Ugo 8035 3459 + 4 GS Cg né), les 5e 30 lin op p PAIE  ole Woh 5 Lal pl) Blé, Las ppd ls ($106) 5 lst Jobs pue — blir, or sl!  Ep LL, lad aslall Jolla, 5  bausluey cat au ls CL Paz 5 II dan lal
(3 &  ES . | te - . - . * a a - elie alk. da 92 jgaall » pleats) = ain (5 dJl 5 i Ls ole wed) 5 —) NA  els Lode Py Labs ol cl . aby PL abla lg bones 3,1 1 Ju « ss Lugo  SV a Bdaug 99 Vl as bois 1 Sas Ÿ ghycaly lie LL. aula, lis uty cay Ca silo Lad) ie  Ol 5 cum ilyb slo dde Inn 50 petdl Ll 51 Abu lé i as all ol Bad! alas Js Luplt  £ . . i . 2 . re fs + . » 5 i  Lal Lay Or < ang bulle né pue 5 Opis als 3055 ad ls SJ cas >) oe LS b= VAS 9 ¢ Send  cdl Cyaël] SE Lalli pe wit pis C ral oF IS candid,
(14.1) Mr. SOUSS (Palestine Liberation Organization) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr. President, Mr. Director-General of Unesco, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Palestine  Liberation Organization and on my own behalf, I would like to offer you, Mr. President, our congratula-  tions on your election to the Presidency, and to extend our greetings and appreciation to the Director-  General and Secretariat of Unesco for what they have done since the last session of your Conference to  facilitate our Organization's mission inside Unesco. I would also like to thank the President and Govern-  ment of Kenya for offering this Conference their genuine African hospitality. Allow me, ladies and gentle-  men, to convey to you and to all the friendly nations whom you represent here, the greetings of the people  of Palestine and of the Palestine Liberation Organization and its Chairman, brother Yasser Arafat, wish-  ing your Conference all success.  io
(14.2) It is our hope that, through common efforts between all the nations of the world, advanced by the  experience acquired by this international organization, we will succeed in improving the standard of world  education and in propagating culture for the sake of all men.
(14.3) The delegation of the Palestine Liberation Organization is glad to be among you today, and I would  like to voice our gratitude to the brothers and friends who participated in consolidating our existence and  gave us support, and our particular confidence in the Director-General, Mr. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow,  thanking him for his continuous support for our just cause.
(14.4) Mr. President, the people of Palestine is facing conditions rarely suffered by other peoples through-  out history. It has been torn by conspiracies and international political intrigues. {Since 1948 part of n  has been living under Israeli occupation, which has worked unremittingly, with devious methods, to era =  cate its sense of belonging to the Palestinian nationality, itself part of a greater Arab nation. The pes  Occupation spread ideas to the effect that Palestinians still living under its rule are Israeli Arabs doome  eventually to disappear. The aim was to obliterate the name of Palestine, by all means, until the legiti-  macy of our struggle ceased to exist.  ommunication linking it with (14.5) Th i tion forces, all means of c ) e Gaza Strip was surrounded by occupation partly or totally, from  other nations were cut off, and a scheme was devised to transfer its inhabitants,  the land on which they grew up.
18 (14.6) Ever since the West Bank came under occupation after the June 1967 war, Israel has been trying  gradually to use its inhabitants, along with the inhabitants of the Gaza Strip, as a labour force deprivedq  of all rights. Israel would like this labour force to remain in the land of Palestine as long as Israeli  policy requires it and is unable to get rid of it, while those who refuse to submit and who resist the oceu-  pation are being banished.
(14.7) There are also those Palestinians who were dispersed in Palestine or in the Arab homeland and Who  are actually suffering in varying degrees from living in the diaspora.
(14. 8) Israel hoped that its policies would succeed in wiping out Palestinian nationality after having divi-  ded the people into sectors surrounded by different conditions that ultimately converge in stifling our  culture and sense of belonging to the same nation.
(14.9) Israel tried to omit any reference to the existence of Palestine from school curricula. Attempts  were made to impose the Israeli version of the region's history, which wipes out with a stroke of the pen  over 15 centuries of history. But this policy failed, and the Israeli leaders themselves conceded its failure  after seeing the uprising of the inhabitants of Galilee and the explosion of their national feelings, which can  never be denied or contained, even after 20 years of suffocating isolation from the rest of the nation added  to deprivation of everything that may nurture feelings, connect the present with the past or pave their way  towards the future.
(14.10) Mr. President, we are fighting a fierce battle on many fronts. Experience acquired by nations  suffering under colonialism, increasingly accentuated since the beginning of this century, has shown that  there is only one way open to nations to reach victory: struggle, and struggle in all fields for national  independence and sovereignty. This was what we have witnessed in the heart of Africa, in the jungles of  Asia and in the vast lands of Latin America. Struggle by every means is the only way. Yet armed struggle  cannot lead to tangible results unless it is guided by political consciousness that lays its objectives and  traces its way; and political consciousness cannot reach maturity unless it emanates from the people's  feelings and national culture.
(14.11) Hence, Mr. President, the importance of action in the field of culture. The Israelis are trying  by all means to eradicate our people's culture. They keep digging the earth in our homeland, shaking the  foundations of our culture, monuments and history in search of minute findings in order to establish a link  between their existence and some ancient history, while overlooking more than 15 centuries of our people's  life. This is why an important part of our struggle is directed towards resisting and frustrating Israeli  attempts to bury our monuments and culture, as well as towards preserving and reviving them.
(14.12) Mr. President, to talk about the return of the people of Palestine means to us the re-establishment  of an organic relationship between man and land, identity and history, hopes and destiny, future and memo-  ries; because apart from the satisfaction of material requirements, the improvement of social conditions  implies the existence of the spiritual climate necessary for our people to ascertain their identity and gain  confidence in themselves. This target cannot be attained without restoring equality between them and other  nations and above all without recognizing their right to belong to their land and environment. It is inside  these that they can mobilize their capabilities, starting with the cultural legacy which defines their Pales-  tinian identity, through the patterns of production, social relations and the maintenance of Arab identity  which incarnated the continuity of Palestine. All the foreign invasions and colonialism that crossed our  land, whether Greek, Roman or Byzantine, failed to efface or check Arabism in Palestine. Yet Israel  is now seeking to eradicate our people's existence after having imagined until recently that it had oblitera-  ted the name of Palestine, and attempts are being made to achieve this aim by stifling our culture and  deforming our civilization. A universal civilization has been promoted by the people of Palestine who have  shown, throughout history, religious tolerance and respect for all religions including Judaism, so much  so that Moslem and Christian Palestinians find themselves in real unity with the legacy of the Torah. Many  shrines in Palestine symbolize the Old Testament, and half the inhabitants of the villages there carry bibli-  cal names. This is how the Palestinians have been and always will be, advocates of religious tolerance  and messengers of universal civilization.
(14.13) Mr. President, our people are struggling to confirm their attachment to their civilization, culture  and identity against those who seek to prevent them from offering their creative contribution to world civi-  lization. They are struggling in defence of their land and their right to belong to it. We realize, however,  the magnitude of colonialist and terrorist forces standing against our rights, but our strength stems from  our resolution, struggle, history, culture and civilization; it stems from our union with the Arab peoples,  and from the will of the nations which love justice and peace in the world. Our struggle takes various forms,  as it is concerned with the military, political and cultural fields as well as that of civilization, yet each one  of them complements the others without contradiction, and no particular form is valued at the expense of  the others. We hold the gun in one hand and the book in the other, our legacy in our hearts, our history in  our minds, the love for the land in our camps and the love of learning in our schools. Each form of struggle  serves the others and has its clearly defined objectives.
(14.14) Palestinian education, for example, aims at deepening our new generation's attachment to Palestine,  in order to make them cling to the unity of their people and protect their historical right and legacy. It ;  also aims at creating this unity within their minds, crystallizing a lucid vision of their future, and preparing  them to start the movement of construction. But in spite of all that has been achieved by the Palestinian  people in this field, many complex problems are facing us. These include: the lack of clear educational  objectives on the part of the institutions responsible for the education of 300,000 Palestinian students inside  and outside the occupied lands; the need for material facilities; and lastly the educational policies carried  out by Israeli authorities with the intention of deforming the Palestinian identity and shaking people's faith  in themselves and in their capabilities.
(14.15) The standard of education in the institutions supervised by the United Nations Relief Agency 15  getting lower due to the absence of any definition of the Agency's social and educational objectives. The  educational objectives set for the Agency are, moreover, incompatible with our people's expectations,  while being dissociated from our society. The Agency often reflects existing objectives in host countr  but now, wheri the national existence and interests of the people of Palestine have been internationally  ies,
710         recognized, the establishment of a new relationship between the Pal  legitimate representative of the people of Palestine, and the Relief  to reassess the Agency's educational system which is often in contr  Unesco in the field of education.  estine Liberation Organization, as sole Agency 18 urgently required in order  adiction with objectives promoted by
(14.16) The fact that the people of Palestine do not have any means of production renders the i providing the new generation with scientific and professional training both urgent and compl € issue of  opment in the field of education has not, as yet, met the people's material hn Fr But devel-  of their success in overcoming the shortage of facilities. The development desired by the ee  Liberation Organization includes the training of cadres and experts in the field of vario à alestine  vities, methodological as well as vocational. us educational acti-
(14.17) Turning to what is happening inside the occupied territories, Israel  school curricula to serve the aim of eradicating the Palestinian identity. Hi  example, ignores centuries of our people's history in Palestine, as if they have lived for these centuries  on another planet, or, in short, as if they had never existed. Israel's policy went further to deform He  religious shrines in Jerusalem, and Hebron. The occupation authorities are carrying out in the whole of  Palestine, under the eyes of the world, archaeological researches forbidden by international law in spite  of repeated condemnations. E  has introduced changes in  story taught at schools, for
(14.18) In the face of such an assault against their civilization, our people have been able to preserve  their glorious legacy with support from progressive forces and from freedom-loving and peace-loving nations. They have benefited from other nations' experiences. We would like to take the opportunity  offered by our being represented in this international organization, which constitutes in our view a forum  for creative humane exchange, to seek understanding for our cause, for the problems facing us in building  up the Palestinian personality, which has been undermined, and to secure assistance for our efforts to  educate the rising generation to help in building their homeland.
(14.19) Mr. President, our people's heritage, which has been created by successive generations across  centuries, constitutes an element in our national existence and proves our people's originality and attach-  ment to their homeland. It is, therefore, our duty to have it studied, presented, recorded and immorta-  lized. This is not only a national duty that we shall never neglect, but also a most effective means of  preserving the Palestinian identity. Since this heritage is the product of a long process of development  over millenia featuring a great deal of wisdom, its preservation will not only benefit the Palestinians but  also the rest of the nations, as the former benefit from other cultural legacies.
(14.20) In 1932, in a study on nationalism, Norman Angell wrote that political nationalism had become  to Europeans of our present times the most important thing on earth, more important than civilization,  humanity, goodness, decency, piety and even life itself. If this was the opinion of a European reflecting  his contemporaries, when no European nation was threatened in its existence, would it then be strange  that at the time in which imperialist and Zionist forces are conspiring against our national existence, it  became more important to us than life itself?  (L'orateur poursuit son intervention en francais)
14,21 Monsieur le Président, qu'il me soit permis d'adresser de nouveau du haut de cette tribune  un tres chaleureux hommage au Directeur général, au nom de l'Organisation de libération de la  Palestine et au nom du président Yasser Arafat, ainsi qu'en mon nom personnel. Qu'il me soit  permis de souligner que le soutien qu'il apporte à notre juste cause avec sagesse et discernement  est un encouragement pour nous et que c'est lui qui nous a ouvert la voie de la participation aux  travaux de l'Organisation, Notre peuple peut aujourd'hui, grâce à ses efforts, bénéficier de  l'apport des autres nations dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la culture, de la science et de  l'information et il lui est désormais possible d'apporter sa contribution à la réalisation des objec-  tifs universels de l'Unesco.
14,22 Je saisis aussi cette occasion pour lancer un appel pressant pour que le peuple palestinien  reçoive d'urgence une aide pour la construction de ses écoles et de ses universités, pour la pré-  servation de ses monuments historiques et pour la fourniture de matériel à l'ensemble de ses  institutions éducatives et culturelles.
14,23 Monsieur le Président, en entamant sa lutte pour le rétablissement de ses droits nationaux  légitimes, le peuple palestinien a montré qu'il ne se bornait plus à rêver. Mais nous nous Sommes  trouvés devant un dilemme qui est apparu plus clairement une fois dissipées les illusions qui le  masquaient : d'une part, ne plus compter que sur soi et, d'autre part, prendre conscience de  l'impossibilité de vaincre par ses seuls moyens et se voir de ce fait déchiré entre la so deh  solidarité. Solitaire, le peuple palestinien l'est dans sa recherche et dans ses options. Solidaire,  il l'est presque obligatoirement dans sa stratégie. Cette nécessité ambivalente et contradictoire  impose au peuple palestinien un constant travail d'analyse.  litu  et la
14.24 Au sein de cette Organisation, nous voudrions que la polémique soit discrète, Den By  dire absente, et qu'elle cède la place au travail constructif. La relation paicatioe qui unit et  lité et Stratégie traduit de notre part le choix du réel contre l'imaginaire, de l'avenir Ta a passé, de l'histoire contre le mythe. C'est une prise de position qui incarne la volonté nr  palestinien de s'arracher délibérément à l'attitude purement défensive, mécanique et non su  mique, qui l'empêchait d'observer réellement le monde extérieur. Le geste de défense = EE  geste que 1'on accomplit trop vite. Par contre, le geste constructif est un geste ge Bai  luation, de distanciation, grâce auquel le Palestinien d'aujourd'hui CLLR à que Ly  Systématique et directe de son environnement.
18 14.25 Nous savions dès le départ que notre indépendance et notre liberté d'action gênent. Mais  elles constituent la seule garantie du respect de nos droits les plus légitimes. Il n'y a rien de  plus précieux pour nous que notre liberté d'action, Et elle est indivisible.
14.26 Aucune tentative pour résoudre la crise du Proche-Orient n'a de chance d'aboutir si elle  fait abstraction de l'irréversible aspiration à l'autodétermination du peuple palestinien, c'est-à-  dire à son retour dans sa patrie dans le cadre d'un Etat souverain, C'est de cet espoir que se  nourrit notre détermination actuelle de résister. à l'annihilation, Seule sa réalisation pourra  étancher la soif de ceux qui sont devenus des étrangers où qu'ils aillent, des exilés où qu'ils  soient, des hors-la-loi quoi qu'ils fassent. Ce que nous voulons, c'est une terre qui redevienne  nôtre et où nous redevenions nous-mêmes, où nous puissions vivre notre propre vie et n'en rendre  compte à personne, ni à une force d'occupation ni à une puissance tutélaire. C'est alors seulement  que le cours des choses au Proche-Orient pourra changer, que l'audace et l'imagination s'attel-  leront à la solution des problèmes les plus épineux, que l'impossible pourra devenir possible,  Mais nous réaffirmons avec force que notre indépendance est primordiale et qu'elle est la seule  garantie de la paix dans la région.
14.27 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, extrémisme, anarchisme, désespoir,  terreur, autant d'idées fausses, de masques, de mensonges, de caricatures plaquées sur le  visage des Palestiniens. Nous refusons l'invraisemblable, le gonflement de l'information, l'ana-  thème ou la sublimation et les discours nébuleux d'un nationalisme creux.
14.28 Nous voulons interroger ce monde de l'éducation, de la culture, de la science et de l'infor-  mation auquel nous souhaitons apporter notre contribution. Interroger est un acte politique qui, à  défaut de réponse immédiate, soulève d'autres interrogations. Politique, l'acte d'interroger l'est  doublement, puisqu'indissociable d'une problématique qui élimine par avance les réponses non  satisfaisantes, en l'occurrence celles qui contredisent les principes et les valeurs d'où l'Unesco  tire son existence et dont elle n'est elle-même que l'un des véhicules. Ainsi, à chaque progrès  de la paix ou à chaque recul, à chaque trahison ou à chaque fidélité, à chaque accord ou à chaque  rupture, il s'agit pour l'Unesco de donner sa mesure, de se poser comme référence.
14.29 Monsieur le Président, nous devons tous, au sein de cette Organisation, maftriser à la fois  la complexité et la’ spécificité, c'est-à-dire opérer une médiation à partir de données changeantes  et quelquefois'inattendues, sans perdre de vue les objectifs initiaux et les questions essentielles,  La vitalité de l'oeuvre de l'Unesco se mesure à son génie transformateur, lorsque celui-ci ne  trahit pas l'immédiateté et la spontanéité du refus et à condition que les finalités ne soient pas  obscurcies ou perdues en chemin.
14.30 C'est pourquoi nous, Palestiniens, avec votre aide, surmonterons nos souffrances et  n'épargnerons aucun effort pour que cette session de la Conférence générale soit un succès, Puis  nous travaillerons avec vous pour que le niveau de l'éducation, de la culture, de la science et de  l'information dans le monde soit à la mesure de l'aspiration des peuples.
14.31 Ainsi, l'Organisation de libération de la Palestine est heureuse de pouvoir apporter sa con-  tribution à l'oeuvre de l'Unesco. Nous espérons pouvoir, grâce à vos idées, grâce aux efforts de  tous les peuples du monde et à l'expérience accumulée par cette Organisation, assuter à tout indi-  vidu, quels que soient sa couleur, sa situation ou son pays, la paix et le respect de ses libertés  fondamentales, et lui garantir la sauvegarde et le développement de sa culture nationale.
14,32 C'est dans cette optique, et uniquement dans cette optique, que le peuple palestinien entend  être associé à la lutte de tous les peuples du monde pour les idéaux communs de l'humanité. Je  vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
15. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of the Palestine Liberation Organization and I now call upon  Mr. Turnovsky, the Chairman of the New Zealand National Commission for Unesco and the head  of his country's delegation, to address us.
16.1 Mr. TURNOVSKY (New Zealand):  Since this is my delegation's first formal intervention at this Conference, may I offer you,  Mr. President, our congratulations on being elected to the Presidency. Mr. President, today is  the thirtieth birthday of Unesco. New Zealand was the second country in the world to ratify the  Constitution of Unesco and after 30 years I trust it is no longer necessary for us to affirm in words  our abiding faith in the purposes for which the Organization was created. Throughout these 30  years, New Zealand has loyally supported Unesco's aims and programmes; sometimes we have  been critical, but usually in a mild fashion and our criticism has mainly been directed at specific  matters contained in the programme, Thirty years is a significant milestone in the life of an or-  ganization and calls for a critical, and indeed self-critical, appraisal of its past performance and  its future direction. One's critics are often one's best friends, if their criticism is intended to be  helpful and constructive, so that you may perform better achieving your objectives. It is in this  spirit that our comments are offered. i
16.2 We believe the Director-General has succeeded brilliantl  the future direction Unesco should take. To draw together wit  is, in effect, a list of the major problems besetting our world  tal proportions. We now have the framework, but how about t  alleviate, those of the global problems that fall within the co  y in defining, in document 19 C/4  hin à conceptional framework what
1s an intellectual task of monumen-  he work plans to solve, or at least  mpetence of Unesco?
16.3 The criticism most frequently levelled at Unesco is that it talk  There is little doubt that there is too much talk, and we the delegate  it were not for the constraint of time, and for the able chairmanship exercised by you, Mr. Presi  dent, and by your colleagues in the Commissions, I suspect we would go on talking Een ag  no good purpose. But what of the criticism that Unesco does too little? We don't believe iid :  be true. We rather believe that Unesco attempts too much with too little and is thus not re =  able to back up these attempts with its available resources. We have argued at successive en]  Conferences that the Unesco programme is too diffuse, attempting to go in too many directions  at one time, and we believe that this criticism is still valid today, even though a very creditable  effort has been made to fit programme activities into a systematic framework spelt out in the  Medium-Term Plan.  S too much and does too little.  S are the worst offenders. If
16.4 Clearly, the Director-General is well aware of this problem, because he quite properly  threw the ball back into our court, and said to us, the Member States, "You tell me what you think  is important, which programmes should be strengthened and which should be eliminated, and where  Unesco's priorities should lie'. We appreciated being taken into the Director-General's confidence  by a series of questionnaires which a large number of Member States tried to answer to the best  of their ability. The result was not unexpected. Certainly, the consensus showed that some areas  of Unesco activities are more important than others. When it comes to specific programmes, we  know well enough what seems important to us in New Zealand and in our region. But how are we  to judge what is important to countries remote from our region whose aspirations and sensitivities  we may not clearly comprehend?
16.5 What the Director-General has achieved is nevertheless very important. He has demonstra-  ted to us the difficulty in meeting all the demands made on him and the need for restraint on the  part of Member States by refraining from asking for the impossible. He has also shown the prob-  lems facing the Secretariat, and the heavy responsibility resting on its shoulders, in creating a  synthesis within the framework of Unesco's programme, and the constraints placed upon it by finan-  cial and other considerations, which we, the Member States with our fragmented knowledge, are  frankly not in a position fully to appreciate. What we can do, however, is to assist the Director-  General by focusing attention on certain directions which Unesco should take and there is no better  place for this than the General Policy Debate.
16.6 Mr. President, Unesco suffers serious financial problems, and whilst this no doubt creates  many headaches for the Director-General and the Secretariat, there are nevertheless compensa-  tions. After a period as long as 30 years most organizations, be they United Nations agencies,  governments, or business concerns, tend towards a proliferation of self-perpetuating activities,  most aptly described by Parkinson's Law. It is a healthy discipline, during a period of economic  stringency, for an organization to take a hard look at itself, to subject itself to strict scrutiny and  to trim off unwanted fat. The chances are that it will emerge from this process leaner, more  efficient and more alert. In fact, the Director-General, to his great credit, has achieved sub-  stantial savings during the past biennium without any noticeable adverse effects on the Organization.  There could well be scope for more of the same treatment.
16.7 It has often been suggested that Unesco, since its early modest beginnings, has grown to a  structure of monolithic proportions. By this is meant, we believe, that Unesco has built up a vast  Headquarters Organization where the decisions are taken, radiating outwards rather too thinly ’  towards the regions and the National Commissions of Member States almost to the point of becoming  rarefied the further you are removed in space from Headquarters. We in New Zealand, being loca-  ted at a greater distance from Paris than any other country, are perhaps rather sensitive to our  remoteness from the decision-making process. However, we are convinced that we are voicing the  opinions of many countries represented at this Conference in insisting that an accelerated programme  of decentralization of Unesco's activities is the most important single policy direction Unesco should  take in the immediate future in order to strengthen the impact of its programme activities. The  efforts being made by Unesco towards decentralization have always been welcomed by New Zealand.  At its eighteenth session you will recall the General Conference decided that "in order to bring  Unesco's Secretariat closer to the realities in the Member States, a policy of reasonable decentra-  lization and regionalization must be pursued’ and that "greater powers of initiative and Sori  should be given, to the Regional Offices and Centres’. The Sixth Regional Conference of Nationa  Commissions in Asia and Oceania which met in Delhi a year ago fully endorsed the important role  of Regional Offices and recommended a number of measures aimed at strengthening them. Jen =  reached the conclusion that Regional Offices in addition to their specialized see ‘ ou  increasingly operate as focal centres for regional and subregional co-operation between em Si  States, more particularly as the policy of increasing participation by National ee se  carrying out of Unesco's programme takes effect. The Director-General is to be commen sa  his Statement in the introduction to document 19 G/5 that decentralization is today a us  policy of Unesco and is being carried out pragmatically in both the planning and execution o
18 programme. Specific tasks and responsibilities are being transferred from Headquarters to staff  at Regional Offices. This development has our full support and we particularly welcome the pro-  vision in document 19 C/5 for extending the functions of Unesco's Regional Offices in Asia and  Oceania, and in Latin America as positive indications of a growing regional emphasis. We feel  sure the Director-General has the determination needed to carry out this policy against all difficu]-  ties, imaginary or real, that may be placed in its way and he is assured of the full backing of  the great majority of Member States, as was amply demonstrated in the deliberations of Commis-  sion IIT on this subject last week.
16.8 Mr. President, it is said that Unesco holds too many meetings and issues too many publica-  tions. New Zealand is inclined to the view that this criticism is not entirely fair. Clearly the  extent to which Unesco is able to carry out programmes is severely limited by the available resour-  ces. Unesco is at its most effective in the role of catalyst, in assisting and encouraging Member  States to help themselves to solve their own problems. It does this most successfully by dissemi-  nating information, by assisting to formulate policies, and by helping to lay the groundwork for  national and international action in the fields of education, science and culture. What better way  to carry out these tasks than through the spoken and written word? What does concern us, however,  is that meetings and publications should be designed to serve specific, clearly-defined objectives;  that meetings should be smaller, less formal, and should attract younger specialists in their fields;  that the approach to the topics under discussion be more practical and pragmatic and less nebulous,  We believe that regional or subregional conferences are often more likely to achieve significant  results and we would suggest that the value of meetings often lies in the careful selection of parti-  cipants. Unesco should continue to consult governments and National Commissions whenever pos-  sible to ensure that only those best qualified are invited. As to publications, we suggest that the  need is for fewer glossy - and therefore costly - periodicals and for more simply produced infor-  mative papers, designed to assist workers in the various fields of Unesco's activities to carry out  their tasks better informed and more effectively.
16.9 Perhaps the most widely held criticism of Unesco, Mr. President, concerns the increasing  politicization of the Organization. There are 140 States represented at this forum, each one a  separate political entity and each having political views of its own. In that sense, of course,  Unesco cannot help but be a political organization. But we hold firmly to the view that Unesco as  a Specialized Agency of the United Nations system in the fields of education, science and culture,  is not the place for purely political debate, especially with the acrimony generated at recent Gene-  ral Conferences. We firmly believe that such debates belong to another forum, the United Nations  General Assembly, and it is our fervent hope that this Conference, with the help of our combined  wisdom and goodwill, will break with the unfortunate trend of recent sessions and will apply itself  totally to the lofty tasks set out in Unesco's Constitution for the good of all mankind.
16.10 Mr. President, the principles underlying the move towards a new international economic  order have largely gained acceptance. Happily the need for a new order is no longer a subject  for contention. The discussion has now turned towards practical measures to reduce the disparity  in wealth of the developed and developing countries. But the world has a long way to go before a  more equitable sharing of wealth becomes a reality. Unesco has already played an important and  valuable role in helping to create the current positive climate of international opinion on the new  economic order. We hope that it will continue to play a role. But we would see that role not so  much in terms of participation in the continuing dialogue between the rich and the poor countries,  a dialogue which, as I say, has now in the main moved on to the consideration of the practical  arrangements necessary to the bringing about of the new order. These are matters which are  more properly the concern of organizations such as UNCTAD. Rather I would see Unesco's role  as twofold - to continue to uphold the universality of the ethic which proclaims the right of man to  equal opportunities, be they economic, educational or cultural, and at the same time to help estab-  lish within developing countries conditions which enable them to make the best use of the increased  economic opportunities provided by the new international economic order.
16.11 Mr. President, there appears to be considerable anxiety at this Conference over the pro-  posed declaration on the principles governing the use of mass media. New Zealand's position on  this issue is quite clear. We sympathize with the problems of news dissemination faced by the  countries of the Third World - indeed in many respects they are also our own problems. Not so  many years ago New Zealand depended entirely on news services supplied by the large international  news agencies. The news we read was selected for us by news editors on the other side of the  world, without regard to its relevance for New Zealand, and largely selected for its news value in  terms of sensationalism and other extraneous criteria. Only recently have we established a thinly  spread network of our own correspondents in various world capitals, and this has helped to keep  us better informed of events which are really important to us. But I stress that this was aecom-  plished by the co-operative action of our newspapers, and not by the New Zealand Government.  We can see no place for governments in the selection and dissemination of news, except to the  extent that they have a right and indeed a duty, to inform their citizens about their policies, in  order to open them up to public debate. We believe in an open society where public policy is sub-  jected to scrutiny and critical appraisal by news media and the public at large, and where the  opposing point of view is allowed to be expressed freely and openly. We believe that the best ¢  zen is one able to weigh up opposing views, and able to make up his own mind. This is our under-  standing of the democratic process, and for this reason we would be unable to support any declara-  tion which vests the control of information and the dissemination of news in the State. We do,  iti-
714      however, recognize the magnitude of the problem for develo  nical facilities for improved news services, and along with  aspect should receive a higher ranking among Unesco's pri  ping countries to create better tech- other delegations, agree that this  orities and resource allocation,
16.12 At the eighteenth session of the General Conference, Mr. President, New Zeal d  assigned a place among Member States belonging to the region of Asia and Seen =  our membership of that region both as a privilege and as a responsibility: a privile 4 Try  it has opened the doors to an interchange with countries with whom we have many fe hs  our geographical location, the expansion of trading links, and growing cultural relationshi = on  responsibility, because we accept that membership of the Asia-Oceania region involves SR 2 s  ing a full part in the activities of the region. After 28 years of belonging to no region, we Leos  more than ever convinced that every Member State, without exception, should have absolute  right of participation in the work of a region - which, as I have already stated, we believe to be  the very essence of Unesco's present and future effectiveness. The Director-General in his intro-  ductory speech has left us in no doubt where he stands on this issue, and could hardly have been  more emphatic in spelling out this right. We fully endorse all that he said.
16. 13 Atprevious sessions we have explained our position as a young country, built originally by  European immigration in the image of its European forbears, which gradually changed its charac-  ter by the growing development and influence of our indigenous Maori population, and more recently  by a sizeable Polynesianimmigration. Events of the last two decades have taught us the need to  stand on our own feet politically, economically and culturally. It would be true to say that in many  respects we are still groping to define our attitudes and to fully comprehend the implications of  these changes. Owing to our situation in the remote regions of the Pacific Ocean, to the profound  influences upon our nation of Polynesian culture, by intermarriage, by shared problems as well  as triumphs, New Zealand has become a multiracial society in the best sense of the word. New  Zealand in fact is the home of the world's largest Polynesian population and our society is more  mature and richer because of this. This is, in a few words, our understanding of our Pacific  nationhood with all that it implies in terms of our special relationships with the newly independent  Island States of the South Pacific, and in a wider sense, with the countries of South East Asia as  a whole. Our horizon, however, does not end there. We are building new relationships with Latin  America, the Middle East and Africa. At this moment, New Zealand's Deputy Prime Minister and  Minister of Foreign Affairs is visiting countries of the Middle East, and tomorrow will pay the  first ever official visit by a New Zealand Minister to Kenya.
16.14 Mention of this happy event gives me the opportunity, in conclusion, Mr. President, to pay  warm tribute to our Kenyan hosts. I am thinking not only of their generosity in making available  this superb conference complex. Nor am I thinking only of the wonderful reception we have all  had from a warm-hearted people who have the fortune to live in what must be one of the most  beautiful and exciting countries in the world. What I have very much in mind, Mr. President, is  the tremendous effort made by so many people, both official and unofficial, to ensure that this great  Conference, historic in that it is meeting for the first time in Africa, is a complete success. That  it is an administrative success is already abundantly plain. And if we, the delegates, can bring to  our deliberations something of the spirit of Harambee which forms the fabric of Kenyan society and  which was so eloquently described to us by President Kenyatta on our opening day, then I feel com-  plete success will be ensured. Thank you, Mr. President.
17. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the New Zealand delegation for his contribution. May I now call upon  H.E. Juan Jacébo Munoz, Ambassador and Permanent Delegate to Unesco and the head of the dele-  gation of Colombia, to address us.
(18.1) Mr. MUNOZ (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President of the General Conference, Mr. Director-General of Unesco, members of the General  Committee, delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government of Colombia, I wish to greet  the people of Kenya in the person of their great leader, Jomo Kenyatta, and to thank you for having honoured  us with the invitation to meet in Nairobi. I should also like to congratulate the Minister of Education,  H. E. Mr. Taaitta Toweett, on his election by acclamation to the Presidency of this nineteenth session of  the General Conference of Unesco.
(18.2) On the occasion of this Conference of the most important institution of universal culture, we should  like to say to all peoples that the countries of this continent, whose history reaches so far back into the  past, and all the countries of the other continents are meeting in Nairobi to accelerate the procedures  which will lead us to a new international economic order, and to seek ways of bringing about the harmonious  development of all human beings, by virtue of the bonds of solidarity which link us indissolubly together.  We are also meeting to record our satisfaction at witnessing the end of colonialism, of discrimination of  all kinds, and of exploitation, in the spirit that should inspire the new man in his relations with his fellows.
(18.3) A great Latin American has said that "Respect for the rights of others is peace''. This dictum  embodies the way of wisdom in human relations. Peace is rooted in respect for human rights. To make  these rights known and to teach respect for them are the two basic tasks of Unesco. In schools through-  out the world we should celebrate Human Rights Day so that children may learn to know them. Young  people should study them, universities should proclaim them, and the study and analysis of human rights  should be compulsory in faculties of law.
(18. 4) Our mission must be to continue to oppose colonialism and racialism. God grant that the children  born in the future will not have their heads full of hatred for men on grounds of race, religion or for any  reason of social injustice. Great changes have taken place in this century and there can be no halting the  struggle for equality, which will go on eliminating injustices.
(18.5) In the struggle to defend human rights and to do away with racialism and colonialism, only one  powerful weapon is to hand, and this is education. Through it men become both respectful and worthy of  respect. This should be the basic policy of Unesco. Education should be its most prized goal. All the  changes we must make in the search for peace and justice depend on this indispensable instrument. We  must not allow ourselves to be diverted down by-ways. The policy of human rights stands alone and all  ideologies will necessarily converge on it. This campaign is the only way of ensuring a lasting peace.
(18.6) As long as men fail to achieve a broader concept of the unit To = y of manki alininett ;  tinue. As long as the privileges of education, science and culture are a EE es con-  » there wi e inequality. As long as political doctrines lack a genuine element of economi i 5 ; ; mic and justi  human beings, they will lead us to violence. As long as efforts continue to RT Justice for all  of underdevelopment, the power struggle will continue and there will be war Teperioriv.stibe cost
(18.7) To achieve our purpose, we must speed up the process of establish  order, a political and economic system that reconciles the rights and duti  whole; that expresses the will of the whole world; that endeavours to fulfil  of opportunity in all corners of the earth. Within this process, we must ce  of our Organization and determine the contribution which it and the countr  bring about the well-being of mankind,  ing a new international economic  es of all men within a harmonious  needs and to provide a minimum  onsider the sphere of competence  les represented must make to
(18.8) It seems intolerable that so large a proportion of mankind should be exc  persistence of this state of affairs reflects on all of us, merely serving to reveal our indifference and self  ishness. Is it not possible to launch yet another series of actions designed to provide all tres gn = s  out the world with a minimum opportunity of going to school? Would this not lead to a tremendous se  in political, scientific and technological thought? But we should not indulge in abstract or utopian LR  ments concerning the new international economic order. The United Nations and each of its Ce i  in their spheres of competence, should put forward practical and viable proposals for the coming ants,  luded from knowledge. The
(18.9) We must combine all efforts to achieve the overall and balanced development of man. To attain this is a complicated process, involving many elements, not all of which are well understood or have been  fully studied. While we can undoubtedly cope with many of them, there are others, such as an a  resistance to change, which prevent us from making the leap forward. To be able to achieve thi single generation should be our coveted goal.  ge-long  sin a
(18.10) Demographic growth represents a formidable challenge. We shall have to provide education to  ever-increasing numbers of human beings. To tackle so serious a problem we must build more schools  and train more teachers.
(18.11) We must strive to apply technological progress for the dissemination of knowledge. We are at  present experimenting with the use of radio and television for education. The geography and population  distribution of our country oblige us to seek means of reaching all citizens through the use of new tech-  nologies. The truth must be widely proclaimed. The freedom of the press and the freedoms of expression  are enshrined in the Constitution of Colombia and our people will defend them. The President of Colombia  and its Government will tolerate no compromise which might involve the restriction of individual liberties.  As long as we are free to express our ideas, we shall bear our difficulties with dignity and patience. .We  take pride in having a free press which, together with radio and television, is a bulwark of Colombian  democracy. They have carried out major campaigns on behalf of literacy and educational advancement.  They are a permanent forum of high culture. Their most important task has been to serve as a vehicle  of truth and a means by which all citizens may express dissenting opinions.
(18.12) For the first time in the history of Unesco, the General Conference is to examine a draft Medium-  Term Plan based on specific objectives which will enable the Organization to define its policy and ensure  the continuity of activities through its biennial programmes. On the occasion of its thirtieth anniversary,  Unesco has presented in this Plan a thorough study of the major problems affecting mankind and formulated  a series of objectives to assist in solving them by means of programmes requiring its collaboration, with-  in its spheres of competence. For this reason, we consider it highly appropriate that the biennial pro-  grammes should henceforth be drawn up in close relation to the six-year Plan, so that, at each session,  the General Conference may verify the progress which it is hoped to achieved during each budgetary period.  Moreover, while it was previously the programme and budget approved at each Conference which placed  financial obligations on the Member States, as from the present Conference the six-year Plan will also  represent a conceptual framework binding upon the Organization. We realize that in the course of the six-  year period new international events may necessitate modifications, which the General Conference, in the  exercise of its sovereignty, can incorporate at each of its sessions, thereby keeping the Plan up to date  and efficient.
(18.13) One aspect of the Medium-Term Plan which we should like to emphasize and to which we attach  great importance is the consultation carried out among Member States, enabling their ideas and wishes  to be duly incorporated in it. The same methodology should be followed in the future, according to a time-  table that would permit Member States to participate to the full.
(18.14) The programmes designed to stimulate artistic and intellectual creativity deserve our full support.  It is essential to associate intellectuals and artists, more and more closely with Unesco's work, 80  that they may contribute to the dissemination and defence of the objectives which the [Ougenization has set  itself. Their freedom should be constantly defended and strengthened, so that artistic and intellectual  creation may come into full flower.
(18.15) For the future effectiveness of its work, Unesco must continue to collaborate as closely possible  with Member States, so that they, rooted in their national reality, may define policies, create = ern  administrative structures, obtain national and international financing and develop the necessary a  resources. Everything done to this end can only result in better use being made of the Organizatio  programmes.  certain aspects of the first three years of country  d (18.16) At the last General Conference we presente cata) beonrvequired We are  programming. We spoke of the enormous effort of overall planning w ! 3 _  at present rer Er first five years of this kind of international co-operation, on An = gere  ment of Colombia, Unesco and UNDP will shortly report. We lay stress on the nee a  design is the responsibility of the national authorities, who are anse leeate ratés coach of the  perience gained has been most valuable for identifying the scope and nature 0 the Re partners involved. We draw attention to the decentralizing approach followed by Pa tie Colom-  in the national authorities. The handling of national and regional fellowships 5 Le on pete  bian Institute of Educational Loans and Study Abroad (ICETEX), a mark of confidence
18   and administrative abilities. The creation of a new system for the management and guidance of work by  means of a tripartite committee comprising Unesco, the United Nations and the Colombian Government  has provided great operational flexibility and better communication between the partners. All this proved  to be excellent experience for Colombia and for all countries carrying out similar programmes. For the  next five-year period we have submitted large-scale projects for strengthening the overall programme of  educational planning and administration, practical teacher training and the development of science policy  and cultural policy.
(18.17) Experience in Colombia has shown us the need to accord special priority to all programmes for  the protection of children in everything connected with nutrition, health and education. For this purpose  a Family Welfare Institute has been set up, which, in addition to budgetary resources, receives support  amounting to two per cent of all salaries paid in the public and private sectors. By this means, the  Government of my country believes that it can provide its future citizens with the soundest basis for  enjoying all their human rights, as well as ensuring the maximum utilization of all the resources of the  educational system.
(18.18) Our Ministry of Education has taken major steps to improve and extend its services, which have  regularly expanded over recent years. In 1975 and 1976, primary school attendance increased by 11,4  per cent and secondary by 27.9 per cent, by using premises twice daily or by working extra days. Tech-  nical vocational training has been expanded by introducing two years of study following the secondary  vocational cycle. At the seventh meeting of Ministers of Education of the "Andrés Bello" Convention,  Colombia presented a proposal for the Andean University. The idea is to hold post-graduate courses  using new educational methodologies and technologies. For more than three years now work has been  proceeding on distance teaching systems as an effective means of covering a country with a mountainous  terrain and a scattered population.
(18.19) Stress is laid on the importance of rural education through institutions which attempt to find  overall solutions to the problems of the Colombian peasant.
(18,20) Work has been carried out on the definition of science and technology policies, the transfer of  technologies suitably adapted to conditions in Colombia and the creation of our own technologies.
(18.21) A National Information System has been established, focusing on our development problems:  education, agricultural sciences, medium and small industries, medical and para-medical sciences.
(18.22) One of the cultural activities we have developed is the extension of public, university and school  libraries. In this work we have been greatly assisted by the Regional Centre for Book Development in  Latin America, to which almost all the countries of the region belong. I should like to request the General  Conference to support this exemplary institution by authorizing the Director-General to renew the agree-  ment, which is producing encouraging results in Latin America.
(18.23) It is of great importance that this Conference should thoroughly examine the evaluation made of  the progress achieved during the first five years of the second United Nations Development Decade. Asa  consequence of the evaluation of the first Decade, a series of social objectives were incorporated in the  second, including precisely those which fall within the competence of Unesco, in particular the objectives  relating to the development of educational systems for the training of the human resources required to  reach the goals set and also to promote science and technology.
(18.24) The Director-General deserves our gratitude for the great interest he has taken in restoring the  Spanish language to its rightful place. Spoken by more than 300 million people, it is one of the most  important media of communication between men. It is the language of peoples of all continents: those  born in Spain of European and Arab descent; those who migrated from the Far East to populate the Ameri-  can continent; those who brought us their vigour and joy from Africa. It has been said that Spanish is the  language for speaking with God; experience has shown that it is the best language for understanding among  all peoples. The resolution according the Spanish language its proper status will be well received by the  General Conference.
(18.25) Mr. Director-General, we have witnessed the work accomplished during the past two years and  the guidance you have given to Unesco, witha view to solving the enormous problems of mankind, regard-  less of their beliefs, nationality or race. We know that you want all men to be free to develop their own  capacities. All should be able to ascend from the humblest peasant home to the high peaks of knowledge.  During your recent visit to Colombia, my Government had the opportunity of showing you its admiration  and recognition for your efforts on behalf of Unesco, in unwavering defence of the cause of justice.
(18.26) Gentlemen, Unesco today celebrates 30 years of fruitful labour. If any organization deserves  the respect of mankind, it is Unesco. Its work has been directed towards the development of the most noble  aspects of human existence. Its activities set high standards for the policies of nations. It accords to  education its true worth. It fosters culture and has become the guardian of the great monuments of man-  kind. It applies science and technology to well-being and progress. It conceives of communication as à  means for the free and balanced circulation of ideas and facts. Its benevolent influence has reached all  nations of the world. Its name will continue to conjure up hope in the minds of all peoples. It will give  forth the light of progress, as long as we are able to guide it, as we have done in the past, along the paths  that lead to the goals of the human ideal.
19.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, on your behalf I wish to thank the head of the delegation of Colombia,  our last speaker for the evening.
19.2 The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 6.15 p, m,  La séance est levée à 18 h, 15  Se levanta la sessiôn a las 18,15
3acenanue sakpsBaercs B 18.15  + Fle die duo IN 385 0g Bu 0 LI) Be Lu) RON FL FESO