First plenary meeting
26 October 1976 at 10, 30 a, m,  President: Mrs, JOBORU (Hungary)  Première séance plénière
26 octobre 1976 à 10 h. 30  Présidente : Mme JOBORU (Hongrie)  Primera sesiôn plenaria
26 okrs6pa 1976 r. B 10 7. 30 muH.  Ipexcezarenb: r-xa HOBOPY (Beurpus)  ere  obo dll JAVA JY upg 400$) vq  (dl) 33557 bad Lo: pt JN  OPENING OF THE SESSION BY HIS SXCELLENCY MZEE JOMO KENYATTA,  PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA  OUVERTURE DE LA SESSION PAR S. EXC. MZEE JOMO KENYATTA,  PRESIDENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE DU KENYA  APERTURA DE LA REUNION POR EL EXCMO. SR. MZEE JOMO KENYATTA,  PRESIDENTE DE LA REPUBLICA DE KENYA  OTKPLITUE CECCHH ETO IIPEBOCXOIHTEJbLCTBOM I'-HOM IXOMO KEHHATTA,  NPE3HTEHTOM PECIIYBJIHKH KEHHS  dy dl md, LS ag yom us, « BLAS gage ju So hall > Lo
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen: At this solemn hour of the opening of the nineteenth  session of the General Conference of Unesco, the first in the history of our Organization to be held  on African soil, we have been honoured by the presence of His Excellency Mzee Jomo Kenyatta,  President of the Republic of Kenya, our host country. In the person of Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, we  greet a great African and a statesman of well-deserved international renown, We greet in him a  man who, throughout his eventful life, has never ceased to work for the causes which formed the  backbone of Unesco's action during the thirty years of its history: strengthening of international  peace and justice, advancement of human rights and human dignity and international co-operation,  He is a true son of Africa but he also belongs to the world, to the international community which we  have the honour of representing here, In his literary work and in particular in his book "Facing  Mount Kenya'', as well as in his practical day-to-day activities, he advanced and defended ideas  which - flowing from deep African sources - are now universally recognized and accepted in the  world,
1.2 Your Excellency, may I now call upon you, kindly to address the nineteenth session of the  General Conference,
2.1 His Excellency Mzee JOMO KENYATTA (President of the Republic of Kenya):  On behalf of my Government and the people of Kenya, I wish to extend to you all our warmest  welcome to our country,
2.2 As you are aware, Kenya became a full Member State of Unesco some twelve years ago,  shortly after our independence was attained, Having always sought to make a full and meaningful  contribution to the work of this distinguished world body, it was gratifying when our invitation was
245   accepted by the General Conference in 1974. Today I am personally delighted that your nineteenth  en is actually assembled in Nairobi, in a year which also marks the thirtieth anniversary of  Unesco.
2.3 Although three decades have gone by since the founding of this pre ire this is the first  fully representative General Conference to be held on the continent of À a a an occasion,  it is particularly fitting that the new Director-General of Unesco ER, an pie and I extend  to him my best wishes for success in discharging such a high responsibility. T rough the selec-  tion now of Africa you have finally completed the exposure of Unesco to the surroundings and the  cultures of every continent on earth. In my view, this is of critical importance, since none of  your fundamental tasks can be properly fulfilled without the background of global understanding and  the experience of international brotherhood.
2.4 All of us should now play our parts in ensuring that your stay in Kenya becomes mutually  rewarding. Outside the Conference hall and Committee rooms, 1 earnestly hope that you will  travel around to meet our people, observe their cultures, and discover their talents and ideas,  My advice would be to regard this Republic as a launching platform for the exploration of Africa, -  Such an opportunity for all Member States of Unesco might well be described as long overdue, The  Africa of today offers virtually a complete cross-section of human evolution. It is a continent old  enough to contain and trace the origin of man, and yet spirited enough to include so many of the  newly independent States. Tt is a continent that has always been close to nature, and yet is readily  adaptable to space-age technology. It is a continent that has suddenly bridged whole centuries  through every process of imaginative change, and yet is still in urgent need of educational, scien-  tific and cultural promotion to overcome the weight of social evils.
2.5 It is within this entire context that we look to your institution for more effective international  co-operation for accelerated programmes of technology, assistance and training, and for an absol-  ute commitment to human rights. Through such enlightenment, we may move towards the sweep-  ing aside of wars and conflicts, the banishment of human misery, and the consolidation of human  dignity in freedom. These are the objectives which should link the Member States of Unesco with  its Directorate and officials, in a common spirit of dedication and pride, for there can be few  endeavours more noble than to make practical use of the sciences and the humanities for the peace  and progress of humankind,
2.6 Basically, the fulfilment of all projects of development, in the cause of human welfare, depends  on the pace and quality of modern education, Within any developing State, the educational standards  that have so far been reached may virtually be measured by assessing such criteria as health ser-  vices, communications, and industrial advance. In these and other fields, all of us are driven by  impatience, while beset by limitations. The lack of qualified manpower, at so many levels, is  constantly frustrating and, although this Republic devotes about one-third of the national budget to  education, this is never enough. We shall therefore await with particular interest any views emerg-  ing from your Conference on efficiency as applied to the total economy of education.
2.7 Another vital aspect of your work is concerned with the defence and the global refreshment of  all elements of culture. Here I would simply point out that, while every community within the  whole panorama of mankind is fundamentally affected by similar aspirations and perils, the im-  mense diversity of creative cultures is one of our richest human assets. For any man or woman  to exist without culture would be to live without roots or traditions, It is only through an inborn  and unfolding culture that the comfort of identity, and the contribution of personality, can be fully  expressed, Here in Africa, of course, we lived through phases in which attempts were made to  obliterate or distort the natural culture of our people. But, as you will soon find on your travels  to whatever part of Kenya, high priority given to the restoration of culture has reawakened this  dynamic element of human dignity.
2.8 During your five weeks of official assembly, it is my earnest hope that purpose and delibera-  tion will be directed to the truest ideals and objectives of Unesco, I trust as well that the facilities  we have provided will absolutely serve the cause of such proceedings. And now I have much  pleasure in declaring the nineteenth session of the General Conference of Unesco to be formally  open,
3. The PRESIDENT:  Your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen: Permit me, Your Excellency, in the name of the 140  Member States of Unesco, assembled in this house which so proudly bears your name, to thank  you for your generous words - words which will encourage us in the work we have to accomplish  at this General Conference. May I be permitted to conclude by expressing a profound wish: may  your country, the African continent and the whole international community profit, for long years  to come, from your experience, your devotion and your wisdom,
4. His Excellency Mzee JOMO KENYATTA (President of the Republic of Kenya):  Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask you, if I may, tolearnour motto of thanks or of appreciation  which we call "Harambee'. Iam now going to say Harambee'' and I will ask you to respond by  saying "Hey". Ladies and gentlemen: "Harambee! |... Harambee! ...Harambee!".  (The Conference was then entertained by a programme presented by Kenyan traditional dancers  and choirs, )
246   ADDRESS BY THE HEAD OF THE DELEGATION OF HUNGARY, TEMPORARY PRESIDENT  ALLOCUTION DU CHEF DE LA DELEGATION DE HONGRIE, PRESIDENT PROVISOIRE  DISCURSO DE LA JEFA DE LA DELEGACION DE HUNGRIA, PRESIDENTE PROVISIONAL  BhICTYIIIEHHE PIIABBI IEJETALWY BEHFPHH, BPEMEHHOTO NPENCEIATE IS  ENTE NII REE UN
5,1 The PRESIDENT: :  Mr, Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr, Director-General, fellow delegates, ladies and  gentlemen: The mandate I was given by the General Conference at its last session means that I,  attending this Conference also as head of the Hungarian delegation, have the honour to preside over  the first moments of this nineteenth session of the General Conference,
5,2 Iaddress my respectful greetings to the prominent personalities leading the delegations of  Member States of our Organization, to all delegates and experts attending the General Conference,  and to the representatives of the various governmental and non-governmental organizations here  present.
5,3 It gives me great pleasure to open this session in Nairobi. This is, as you know, the first  time in the thirty years of its existence that Unesco has held its General Conference in Africa, I  think this choice of venue for the Conference reflects the growing part played in our Organization  by the developing countries, including the countries of Africa, In this connection, I should like  to express my appreciation and sincere gratitude to the government of the host country, Kenya,  for the generosity and the tireless efforts by which it has made it possible for us to hold the nine-  teenth session of the General Conference in Africa, in Kenya's beautiful capital, Nairobi,
5,4 Ladies and gentlemen, before anything else, I have a sad duty to fulfil, I have to recall the  memory of those personalities who were in our midst two years ago and who have since passed  away.
5.5 Above all, I have to commemorate Mr, René Maheu, who was Director-General of Unesco for  more than twelve years. When René Maheu took up his office on a temporary basis in 1961, a  particular conjunction of events was increasing the importance of international action, Decoloniza-  tion, which had begun in Asia and the Middle East after the ending of the Second World War, was  at last spreading to Africa, The year 1960 saw Africa's entry into the community of the United  Nations. For Unesco it was a new departure, René Maheu was able to lead his colleagues along  new paths. It was his constant concern to ensure that intellectual and ethical activities, and what  we have grown accustomed to call operational activity in the field, should provide each other with  mutual support and enrichment. René Maheu was a humanist in thought and in deed; it was to the  human personality that his thoughts always turned. Seldom has any man's personality been more  perfectly matched to the ideals of the Organization which he served.
5.6 The Organization also suffered the loss of its first Director-General, Sir Julian Huxley, a  man who faced with brilliance the extremely difficult task of forging, on the ruins left by the  Second World War, an instrument whose purpose was and still is - to quote our Constitution -  "to contribute to peace and security by promoting collaboration among the nations through educa-  tion, science and culture...". He laid down sound foundations on which his successors could build  this Organization, He will never be forgotten and will occupy an eminent place in the history of  Unesco,
5.7 In this room, we see a great number of faces which are familiar to many of us, There are, unfor-  tunately, others which we shall never see among us again. I cannot give all their names but I may  perhaps mention a few of them, like Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, the former President of India and  President of the General Conference; René Cassin, one of the founding fathers of Unesco, whose  name is forever associated with the defence of human rights; and our friends Mrs. Cordelia  Navarro, the President of the Cuban National Commission for Unesco, and Blaise Senghor, the  Permanent Delegate of Senegal to Unesco.
5.8 Finally, I would like you to remember that, since the last session, several of our Member  States have suffered the loss of their heads of State or of their leading statesmen,
5.9 I now invite the assembly to observe one minute's silence in memory of all these as well as of  those I could not mention.  (The Conference observed one minute's silence, )
5.10 Ladies and gentlemen, it is not my task to report on the past two years' activities, on the  results achieved and the difficulties encountered by our Organization, nor to introduce the two-  year Draft Programme and the six-year Medium-Term Plan submitted to the General Conference,  Detailed accounts will be submitted to you by the Chairman of the Executive Board and the Director -  General, I merely wish to comment on a few questions.
5,11 You all know that early last year Unesco, headed by its new Director-General, Mr. M'Bow,  set out under very difficult circumstances to give effect to the resolutions of the eighteenth session
247   Immediately after the Conference, certain well-known political quar-  depoliticizing Unesco - deliberately distorted some rego].  hed a press campaign against the Organization, A fey  measures by refusing, in part or in full, to pay their  ion of the Organization, which was already difficult,  of the General Conference,  ters - which often argue the necessity of  tions of the General Conference and laune  Member States even resorted to financial  contributions. This made the financial situat.  extremely serious.  to commend the Director-General for the firmness with which
5,12 I wish to take this opportunity s  he repudiated the false charges levelled against the Organization and for the common sense and  wisdom with which he carried into practice the Conference -endorsed programme in that both politi.  cally and financially difficult situation, I should also like to express my thanks to the Member  States which rendered our Organization moral and material assistance in those times of need,
5.13 Ladies and gentlemen, the General Conference at its last session adopted a great number of  important resolutions, Some were directly connected with the principal tasks defined in the Cons-  titution of Unesco: the maintenance of peace and security, and the promotion of human rights, Such  was the resolution on Unesco's contribution to peace and its tasks with respect to the promotion of  human rights and the elimination of colonialism and racialism, Those resolutions included a  recommendation concerning education for international understanding, peace and respect for  human rights, as well as resolutions on the further strengthening of co-operation in Europe, and  on Unesco's participation in the commemoration of the thirtieth anniversary of the end of the Second  World War, I think I must also mention here the General Conference's resolution on Unesco's  contribution to the establishment of a new international economic order, because the more equit-  able distribution of material and spiritual goods in the world is a basic requirement for the promo-  tion of human rights and the maintenance of peace, I would likewise mention here the General  Conference's resolution, connected with International Women's Year, on the improvement of the  status of women,
5,14 I am of the opinion that the Unesco Secretariat, headed by the Director-General, has done  much for the implementation of these resolutions, I should like to express my appreciation of the  attention given by the Director-General to the Final Act adopted at Helsinki in 1975 by the Confer-  ence on Security and Co-operation in Europe, and to the tasks falling to Unesco in consequence of  it. The proposals worked out in common by the European Member States will also make a valuable  contribution to the forthcoming Belgrade Conference, The importance that Unesco attributes to its  part in the establishment of a new international economic order is evidenced not only by the  Medium -Term Plan but by the comprehensive document which appears as a separate item on the  Agenda of the General Conference. I feel sure you will agree with me that this significant docu-  ment reflects the aspirations of the Third World as recently summed up by the Non-Aligned Nations!  Summit Conference at Colombo. I must also commend Unesco's participation in the commemora-  tion of the thirtieth anniversary of the end of the Second World War, which provided an opportunity  of reminding world public opinion of the horrors that had taken place thirty-odd years before, and  of directing attention to the scope of the catastrophe that any new world war would bring upon  mankind,
5.15 The implementation of all these resolutions furnished opportunity to show the close inter-  dependence between détente and peaceful coexistence, on the one hand, and the development of  education, science and culture within the sphere of competence of Unesco, on the other.
5.16 Ladies and gentlemen, the final object of all Unesco's activities is to strengthen international  understanding and co-operation in the interests of peace and security. At the same time, our  Organization, in conformity with its prescribed functions, has an important part to play as a  professional forum in the fields of education, science, culture and information, Itprovides occasion  for the international interchange of experience and for regional and world-wide undertakings necessi-  tating international collaboration, I think our Organization has in the past two years achieved note-  worthy results in this respect also,
5.17 One point to be noted is the great attention that our Organization has devoted to the problems  of the Third World, This is evidenced not only by a number of activities but also by consultations  of great importance, such as the Conference of Ministers of Education of African Member States,  the Intergovernmental Conference on Cultural Policies in Africa, the Conference of Ministers  Responsible for Science in the Arab Countries, and the consultation of Latin American and Carib-  bean countries about communication policies, I think these talks have made a considerable contri-  bution to the establishment of a new international economic order which, as was also emphasized  by the Colombo Conference, cannot be realized unless the developing countries, in the fields of  education, science, culture and communication, gradually make up the lag inherited from the  colonial and semi-colonial past.
5. 18 Many important professional discussions, of interest to all Member States, have taken place  in the past two years. I would mention, by way of example, the forum on fundamental scientific  and technical questions of energy, the intergovernmental conference on the problems caused by  earthquakes, and the conference on the physical education of young people
5.19 I might, of course, continue to enumer  a  > cor ate examples: I might refer to other successful act:  ties, consultations, publications, exhibitions, ete, And I could EE action which I think failed
248   to produce the expected results, But I do not consider it my duty to make such a detailed evalua- 1  tion, I should only like to state once more that, in my opinion, our Organization has, in the past  two years, worked successfully, despite many difficulties, to give effect to the important resolu -  tions adopted by the General Conference at its eighteenth session, In this respect, appreciation  is due to the Director-General, the Secretariat, and all those Member States, znd governmental  and non-governmental organizations, which have co-operated in carrying out the programme,
5,20 Ladies and gentlemen, after listening to the introductory statements by the Chairman of the  Executive Board and the Director-General, we shall begin to discuss the two -year Draft Pro-  gramme, the budget estimates, and the six-year Medium-Term Plan submitted to the General  Conference.
5.21 If we look around the world, we can see some reassuring, heartening phenomena, Though  not without some counter-movements, the trend in the direction of détente is strengthening,  Serious efforts are being made in respect of strategic arms limitation a d disarmament, which  would deliver mankind from the nightmare of a nuclear catastrophe and would release huge |  resources for the purposes of the economic, social and cultural advancement of peoples. The  Helsinki Conference has given the peoples of Europe, where two world wars have broken out, and  all the peoples of the world, encouragement to create realistic conditions for peaceful coexistence,  The last strongholds of colonialism are cracking, the era of sovereign development for all peoples  has come within reach,
5,22 Unfortunately there are at the same time a good many alarming phenomena, Dangerous  tensions threaten in various parts of the world; actual armed conflicts are raging. Human rights  are trampled under foot in several countries, Disarmament efforts are often denied support and  are even hindered, overtly or covertly, so that the arms race continues, consuming immense  material and intellectual resources.
5,23 I think that the two-year Draft Programme and the six-year Medium -Term Plan submitted  by the Director-General take due account of the complex realities of our age and thus furnish a  good basis on which our General Conference will be able to pass the resolutions expected from it  by the peoples of the world, aspiring to peace and to life worthy of man,
5,24 Permit me, for brevity's sake, to say only a few words about the Medium-Term Plan, This  starts from the global problems of the world, such as the consolidation of peace, the promotion of  human rights, the introduction of lifelong education, the use of the results of science and technol -  ogy for the benefit of society and of the individual, The basic idea, as formulated by the Director-  General, is that ''never has the world been such an integrated whole, never has its diversity been  so evident'',
5,25 Whatever economie, social or cultural problem we may study, of whatever country or region,  it will soon become clear to us that no proper solution can be found to it if we disregard what is  happening in other parts of the world. At the same time, it is also evident that every country and  every people, relying on international co-operation and solidarity but free from any outside inter -  ference or pressure, must decide for itself which is the kind of economic, social and cultural  development best suited to its historical traditions and national characteristics.
5.26 It may be that the General Conference will propose changes in the substance and structure  of the Medium -Term Plan, But I think everyone will recognize that this is the best, the most  substantial medium-term - or perhaps long-term - plan the Unesco General Conference has ever  had to deal with, It provides a good basis for the discussion and approval of the two-year Draft  Programme and for Unesco's future work, Sincere thanks and appreciation for all this are due to  the Director-General and all his colleagues who, in consultation with Member States, have taken  part in the drafting of the plan,
5.27 Ladies and gentlemen, this session of our General Conference coincides with the thirtieth  anniversary. of Unesco, The rich experience gained over those years can help us to make the  work of this nineteenth session both effective and successful, worthy of the past thirty years in  our Organization's life, of its international prestige, and of the expectations which its Member  States entertain in connection with these deliberations.
5.28 I should like to mention here, too, that I sincerely hope our Conference will contribute to the  enhancement of the Organization's achievements and the prestige it has gained over the past thirty  years by taking further steps to give effect to the principle of universality laid down in its  Constitution,
5.29 Ladies and gentlemen, permit me in conclusion to wish you all the fullest success in the  difficult and responsible work that lies before us in the next five weeks.  ADDRESS BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD  ALLOCUTION DU PRESIDENT DU CONSEIL EXECUTIF  DISCURSO DEL PRESIDENTE DEL CONSEJO EJECUTIVO  BRICTYNJIEHUE HPEJICEZATEJS HCHOJNHHTEJBHOFO COBETA  on LIE STE ES
6. The PRESIDENT:  And now, ladies and gentlemen, I invite the Chairman of the Executive Board to take the floor,  Chairman of the Executive Board:  al, honourable delegates, ladies and gentlemen: If ig  me, on behalf of the Executive Board and in my own  name, all the delegations of Member States who have come to take part in this nineteenth session  of Unesco's General Conference, And itis a very great honour and delight for all of us to have  begun this important session by listening to His Excellency Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, President of  Kenya, who welcomed us so warmly and whom we all wish to thank most sincerely for his invita.  tion to meet in this country. We are happy that the President, the Government and the people of  Kenya invited us, and we know that the Nairobi decisions of Unesco will be beacon lights for the  future.
7.1 Mr. WYNTER (Jamaica),  Madam President, Mr, Director-Gener  my very great honour and privilege to welco
7.2 President Kenyatta reminded us that the immense diversity of our creative cultures was one  of our greatest assets, and this reminder was most welcome, And his call for a common spirit  of dedication and pride in our task of elevating international understanding and co-operation will,  I am sure meet with a positive response from us all, The delightful exposition of Kenyan culture  both before and after his speech this morning, is indeed a happy augury for our success and we are  deeply grateful,
7.3 Madam President, I am pleased also to greet the representatives of the United Nations, of  our sister organizations in the United Nations system, and the observers from international and  regional intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations with whom Unesco has established  and maintains close and effective co-operation,
7.4 But let me join here with you, Madam President, in expressing our sadness at the passing of  our last Director-General, René Maheu, who was the head of the Secretariat at the eighteenth  session of the General Conference, at that of our first Director-General, Julian Huxley, and at  that of our former colleagues on the Board, and of course at the passing of distinguished heads of  State and heads of government,
7.5 Madam President, already my colleagues in the press (for I am a journalist myself) have  begun to emphasize some of the items on our 77-item agenda which they feel may create excite-  ment and division in the same way as, after our eighteenth session in Paris, little publicity was  given to the admittedly major achievements but a great deal was given to one or two decisions  considered to be controversial, I do not quarrel with my colleagues because, as a pressman, I  think I understand what motivates us in giving news to the world, But Madam President, I know  that every delegation has come here to this city and to this Conference because its country is  committed to the principle of international collaboration, with a desire to concentrate on the very  many areas on which we agree and, through goodwill, a readiness to negotiate on the points on  which we differ, I am confident that the approach to the important questions before us will be one  of willingness to find harmony, agreement and consensus, and not one of empty and futile confron-  tation, Indeed, the atmosphere of this beautiful city of Nairobi will encourage this spirit of harm-  ony, and your Executive Board has suggested machinery to you which, will, I am sure, help to  facilitate the achievement of harmony.
7.6 Madam President, the 140 countries which are members of Unesco reflect different systems,  different approaches, different ideologies, But within this pluralism we can find a common commit-  ment and it is this which we must emphasize, for thus we shall find richness in diversity in place  of irreconcilable differences.
7.7 This has been our experience, Madam President, in the Executive Board which you elected at  the last Conference. So allow me to recall, very briefly, the eighteenth session of the General  Conference, which set the stage for a new departure following the adoption by the General Assembly  of the United Nations of the Declaration and Programme of Action for the Establishment of a New  International Economic Order, The eighteenth session elected the first African Director-General  of the Organization, Mr, Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow. This nineteenth session of the General Confer-  ence is his first as the head of the Secretariat and we wish him all that is good. We remember  with a sense of pride his challenging words of 1974 calling us to a new era and a new spirit of co-  operation, It is in that spirit that we have approached the guidelines laid down by the eighteenth  session for the future work of the Organization as concerns both the two-year period now coming to  an end and the preparation of our six-year plan for the period 1977-1982, Thus, we at this General  Conference will have to consider that six -year plan, and I need hardly say that the adoption of the  plan and the examination of the two-year Draft Programme and Budget for 1977-1978 will be our  two most important tasks. We on the Board, as your representatives, have worked closely with  the Director-General and his colleagues on both the Draft Medium -Term Plan (19 C/4) and the  Draft Programme and Budget (19 C/5), and I shall have more to say on them at the appropriate.  times in our deliberations. Tomorrow, I shall introduce the Board's report on the last two years'  work. But let me say here how impressed we were with the leadership of the Director-General  and the deep sense of commitment and co-operation shown by him and his colleagues in the discus-  sions with the Board. This helped us considerably in making our recommendations to you.
7,8 Madam President, recent years have witnessed-new desires for changes in international  relations and international co-operation, and in the very concept of development assistance -  changes which will influence the United Nations system as a whole as well as other international  and regional groups of countries. But many have felt that assistance and change have been too  little, if not too late. Thus the hunger for a new anda more just relationship between developed and  developing nations has increased. We who meet today are the inheritors of the past relationships  and need not seek to try and justify them, We are called to be the architects of peaceful change  but also to preserve what has been good in the past, ;
7,9 It is in this context of changing international relations that we shall have to consider the role  of education, science, culture and information for the development of the individual human being  and of nations. We, the Member States of this Organization, will have to ensure that Unesco  continues to play an active and constructive role in this process of change, This we may achieve  Irepeat, not through needless, unproductive and bitter confrontation, nor through unprincipled t  meaningless compromises, but only through patience and the willingness of all jointly to examine  and resolve our problems and to harmonize our views and, in so doing, to respect the principles  of others while demonstrating belief in ours. For the lesson of the last few years is that, even if  changes have been slow in coming, all countries, developed and developing, have now accepted  the need for peaceful and harmonious change. Even those who, from within and from without, have  criticized the Organization have, by so doing, expressed concern, concern which could be, Madam  President, the first step to commitment, And it is we, the representatives of the Member States,  who have been criticized, for Unesco is the sum total of its members; Unesco is not set apart from  its Member States. It is we, therefore, who must respond to the criticisms by a positive demon-  stration of our commitment to the high principles of our Organization, Madam President, we will  have five weeks of hard work and, I know, of fruitful exchanges, We will, to some extent, take  stock of the Organization's achievements over the last two years, but even more importantly, we  will have to decide upon its future. And I repeat that we may find encouragement in the fact that  the points of divergence are much fewer than those that meet with agreement,
7.10 I shall not now enumerate all the various items which will come before you in plenary and in  the Commissions and Committees and which bear on one or another aspect of intellectual, scien-  tific, social, cultural and economic development, but we must, in all our deliberations, keep in  mind the ultimate aim and purpose of our Organization which is "to contribute to peace and secur-  ity by promoting collaboration among the nations through education, science and culture in order to  further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for the human rights and fundamental  freedoms'' of every individual in every single part of the world,
7,11 Our celebration ceremony on 4 November of the thirtieth anniversary of Unesco's founding,  will be yet another occasion for a rededication and a recommitment to this purpose, and falls  happily in the midst of our deliberations at this Conference. We who were elected by you to sit  on the Executive Board are pleased to have been associated with, and to have participated in, the  preparation of the proposals before you now - proposals which, I may remind you, were based on  your own Conference decisions and also on the extensive consultations which the Director-General  has held with the Member States - and I would like to assure all of you that we, your representa-  tives on the Board, stand willing at this Conference to give any assistance you may require through-  out your deliberations. On behalf of the Board, therefore, I offer you our humble services, and  I wish you every success in your work which - and this we should always keep in mind - is geared  to the development of mankind individually and collectively through international co-operation and  exchanges between equal partners who all have something to offer and who all need assistance in  something, For it is to be remembered that every country is equal in importance and prestige,  and consequently should also be equal in the privileges, the responsibilities and the duties of  membership, Madam President, we gather today at a time when the promise of harmonious  change is high in the hearts and minds of our peoples. Let us remember, however, that the longer  that promise is delayed in fulfilment, the more dangerous the risks of frustration and disaster  become, We, who have the privilege of representing our countries, are called to greatness at  each Conference, I have no hesitation in praying that that call to greatness will be answered posi-  tively at this Nairobi Conference, Thank you, Madam President.
8. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Executive Board and now I give the floor to the Director-General.  ADDRESS BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL  ALLOCUTION DU DIRECTEUR GENERAL  DISCURSO DEL DIRECTOR GENERAL  BhICTYIIEHHE I'EHEPAJILHOI'O IHPEKTOPA  pla! ald) aS
9.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL. -  Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif,  Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, participant pour la premiere fois en qualité de Directeur  général à l'ouverture de la Conférence générale, mes premiers mots seront pour dire aux repré-  sentants des Etats membres ici rassemblés ma joie de les retrouver après les deux années qui
251   nous séparent de la dix-huitième session au cours de laquelle ils m'ont unanimement manifesté  leur confiance en m'appelant à la tête du Secrétariat de l'Organisation.
9.2 Je leur souhaite la bienvenue la plus chaleureuse sur cette terre accueillante d'Afrique,  les hautes personnalités venues nombreuses nous témoigner leur intérêt et  nt les membres du gouvernement du Kenya et ceux du  ésentants des institutions soeurs du système des Nations
9.3 Je salue aussi  leur sympathie, et tout particulièreme  corps diplomatique, ainsi que les repr  Unies.
9.4 Enfin, je désire exprimer une reconnaissance toute particulière à Mme Magda Jobéru, pré-  sidente de la Conférence générale, dont les hautes fonctions prendront fin aujourd'hui même, mais  qui, à bien des titres je le sais, restera une amie fidèle de l'Unesco et continuera à en favoriser  le rayonnement.
9.5 A cet hommage de gratitude, je voudrais associer M. Hector Wynter, président du Conseil  exécutif, etlui dire sans attendre la clôture de la 100e session combien mes collègues et moi-même  avons apprécié et admiré la contribution qu'il a apportée à l'oeuvre de l'Organisation.
9.6 Je tiens à m'associer aussi à l'hommage rendu par la Présidente de la Conférence générale à  mes prédécesseurs, aux anciens membres du Conseil exécutif et aux chefs d'Etat disparus depuis  la précédente session,
9.7 Les délégués à la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale trouveront ici, j'en suis  persuadé, comme l'ont déjà ressenti les membres du Secrétariat, une atmosphère d'amicale coo-  pération propice à leur travaux.
9.8 Aussi voudrais-je d'emblée au nom de l'Organisation, c'est-à-dire en votre nom à tous,  Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, au nom des membres du Secrétariat et en mon nom person-  nel, adresser à l'éminent chef d'Etat, S. Exc. Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, l'expression de notre pro-  fonde gratitude pour son invitation à nous réunir en cette belle capitale du Kenya et dire aux  membres du gouvernement, aux autorités locales et au peuple du Kenya combien nous sommes  sensibles à leur chaleureuse hospitalité.
9.9 Je voudrais également dire combien j'ai été sensible aux paroles aimables que S. Exc. le  Président de la République du Kenya a adressées à l'Unesco et à moi-même dans l'allocution qu'il  a prononcée au début de cette séance. Elles constituent pour moi un précieux encouragement dans  l'exercice d'une fonction difficile entre toutes et à laquelle j'ai été appelé grâce d'abord à la con-  fiance unanime de ses pairs, les chefs d'Etats africains réunis au sein de l'Organisation de l'Unité  africaine.
9.10 Vingt années, vous le savez, se sont écoulées depuis la dernière session que la Conférence  générale a tenue hors du Siège. C'était à New Delhi en 1956 et la tradition semblait bien établie  que des assises d'une telle nature, en raison du nombre croissant des Etats membres et de la  complexité des rouages de l'Organisation, ne pouvaient se tenir hors de Paris.
9.11 C'est dire la signification particulière que revêt la réunion de l'organe délibérant suprême  de l'Unesco qui, pour la première fois, siège sur le continent africain, Dans l'histoire de l'Orga-  nisation, l'événement que nous vivons ensemble aujourd'hui marque pour l'Afrique une étape im-  portante dans la voie du partage plus équitable des responsabilités au sein de la communauté  internationale.
9.12 Aussi ai-je à peine besoin de vous dire l'émotion et aussi la fierté que ressent, en ce mo-  ment même, l'Africain que je suis.
9.13 Qu'il me soit done permis de rendre hommage à cette terre africaine qui m'a donné nais-  sance, à cette terre ancienne, berceau probable de l'espèce humaine selon les préhistoriens.  Témoins des transformations successives qui, de l'aube de la préhistoire à nos jours, ont mar-  qué le long et difficile cheminement de l'homme vers le progrès, elle s'efforce, aujourd'hui, d'in-  carner les aspirations légitimes de l'humanité à la paix dans la justice et à l'entente fraternelle  entre toutes les nations, Si éprouvée qu'elle ait été par les dures souffrances de la traité négrière,  qui trois siècles durant a provoqué misères et destructions, puis par les humiliations de la domi-  nation coloniale, son credo demeure la recherche persévérante des voies qui permettent d'unir les  hommes, par-delà leurs diversités inéluctables, pour que tous les peuples puissent enfin assumer  en commun le nouveau destin de l'humanité.
9.14 C'est parce que la paix et la concorde universelle ne peuvent être établies que sur la base de  la reconnaissance de l'égalité en dignité de tous les hommes et sur le respect de la libre détermi-  nation de chaque peuple, que l'on ne saurait, en ces lieux si proches des terres australes et en Cé  jour mémorable entre tous dans l'histoire récente de l'Afrique, ne pas évoquer le sort de millions  d'Africains et d'Africaines, victimes de la domination coloniale, du racisme et de l'apartheid.
9.15 La mort des enfants de Soweto et d'ailleurs, tombés parce que revenciquantle droit d'apprendre  dans une langue autre que celle de ceux qui ont fait d'eux des parias sur leurs propres terres, est
1a pour nous rappeler les multiples atteintes qui sont portées quotidiennement en Afrique et ailleurs  aux droits les plus élémentaires de l'homme, La liste ne cesse de s'allonger des intellectuels, des  artistes, des écrivains et d'humbles gens du peuple jetés en prison, contraints à l'exil ou disparais-  sant à jamais un beau matin victimes de forces occultes. C'est le lieu de souligner aussi avecforce  que la domination d'un peuple par un autre peuple est intolérable où que ce soit dans le monde et  quelles que soient les raisons par lesquelles on veut la justifier. En tout cas, elle est contraire à  tous les principes qui sont à la base de la création de l'Unesco et qui continuent de régir son action.
9.16 Mais sur cette terre d'Afrique, nul n'a jamais cherché à opposer la haine à la haine. Il y a  toujours eu une volonté de chercher d'abord à faire triompher la justice par les armes de lapersua-  sion et de la tolérance. Aimé Cesaire, l'Antillais d'origine africaine, a su mieux que quiconque si-  tuer le combat des peuples dominés en écrivant : "Qu'on le sache, en articulant notre effort dans  l'effort de libération des peuples colonisés, en combattant pour la dignité de nos peuples, pour leur  vérité et pour leur reconnaissance, c'est en définitive pour le monde entier que nous combattons et  pour le libérer de la tyrannie, de la haine et du fanatisme. Nous aurons ainsi contribué à donnerun  sens, son sens, au mot le plus galvaudé et pourtant le plus glorieux : nous aurons aidé à fonder l'hu-  manisme universel."
9.17 Cet humanisme, le président Jomo Kenyatta, a contribué à le révéler au monde en lui faisant  découvrir la culture du peuple kényen et en luttant inlassablement pour l'indépendance de sa patrie.  Jamais, au cours des années difficiles, il n'a laissé la haine gagner son coeur. La coopération li-  brement consentie que le Kenya a su instaurer avec toutes les nations du monde, prouve que la xéno-  phobie et le racisme n'ont plus droit de cité sur cette terre qui a été leur victime.
9.18 D'autre part, comment ne rendrais-je pas hommage ici à la sagesse qui, très tôt, a fait per-  cevoir au Président de la République du Kenya ce que l'éducation peut faire pour la promotion d'un  peuple, pour lui restituer ses valeurs séquestrées, pour les réintroduire à l'école, dans la famille,  dans l'âme de tout un pays. Dès 1938, dans son ouvrage Facing Mount Kenya, qui eut tant de reten-  tissement en Afrique et dans le monde, il accordait une très large place aux problèmes de l'éduca-  tion africaine. Il avait su mettre en évidence son caractère d'apprentissage concret et permanent,  ainsi que ses objectifs de fidélité aux traditions et d'ouverture sur le monde qui, par-delàles âges,  lui confèrent une étonnante modernité.
9.19 Enfin, je voudrais souligner que, grâce à l'initiative de son gouvernement, le Kenya s'em-  ploie avec vigueur à être une terre de rencontres, d'échanges internationaux. Notre présence ici  l'atteste et le message d'espoir, de dignité, de liberté et de fraternité que le Président Kenyatta a  exprimé ce matin et qui est le message de l'Afrique, sera pour nous à la fois sujet de méditation  et, je le souhaite ardemment, source d'inspiration.
9.20 Et rien, à vrai dire, en ce jour n'est plus nécessaire, Car nous devons faire face à une pro-  blématique mondiale plus préoccupante, je crois, que lors de notre dernière rencontre, ily adeux  ans, et dont les répercussions se font immanquablement sentir dans les domaines de compétence  de l'Unesco. Rappellerai-je que, malgré initiatives et tentatives, les points noirs demeurent. De  graves conflits armés subsistent. Des populations entières vivent dans le dénuement. Les efforts  visant à améliorer les mécanismes de la coopération internationale sont restés jusqu'à présent sans  effet. Si les résolutions que l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies a adoptées par consensus pour  l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international n'ont rien perdu et de leur justesse et de  leur nécessité et de leur urgence, force est de reconnaître que rien ou à peu près n'a été fait pour  que l'idéal qu'elles expriment devienne réalité. Et pourtant, il est de l'intérêt bien compris de tous,  je dis bien de tous les pays sans exception et non pas seulement des plus démunis, qu'un ordre plus  équitable et plus fraternel s'établisse enfin dans un monde qui persiste à consacrer à la guerre ou  à la préparation de la guerre, des moyens matériels gigantesques qui, affectés à des fins pacifiques,  pourraient enfin améliorer son sort.
9.21 Si j'aborde maintenant les problèmes propres à l'Unesco, mais qui découlent, bien sûr, de  ceux qui déchirent le monde, tous ceux d'entre vous qui ont suivi notre action savent combien les  séquelles des tensions qui ont marqué la dernière session de la Conférence générale ont alourdi  l'atmosphère dans laquelle l'Organisation a poursuivi son oeuvre depuis deux ans.
9,22 Je ne veux pas assombrir cette séance d'ouverture par des rappels pénibles. Qu'il me soit  permis cependant d'énoncer quelques vérités très simples, qu'il serait dangereux de perdre de  vue. Une organisation internationale comme l'Unesco vise à l'universalisme, elle en est désor-  mais très proche et, lorsque auront été réduites les dernières citadelles de l'oppression, elle  rassemblera à coup sûr tous les Etats de la terre. Ce qui signifie que, organisation intergouver-  nementale, elle réunira les représentants de gouvernements qu'opposent des antagonismes en tous  genres, et notamment politiques et idéologiques. C'est là la servitude, mais aussi laraison d'être  d'une organisation comme la nôtre. En adhérant à son Acte constitutif, les Etats membres ne sau-  raient renoncer à leurs options fondamentales, Il serait naff, illusoire et même dangereux de le  croire. Mais, si différents qu'ils puissent se sentir les uns des autres et en raison même de ces  différences, ils assument un devoir moral essentiel. Ce devoir consiste, dans les domaines de compé-  tence del'Organisation, à chercher à dégager tout ce qui leur est commun, tout ce qui les unit, tout ce  qui peutleur permettre de marcher ensemble vers des objectifs conformes aux aspirations des hommes  etacceptables pour tous, objectifs tantôt proches, tantôt plus lointains et encore difficiles à atteindre,
253   PET ' ;  mais qui constituent la base même de cette "solidarité intellectuelle et morale de l'humanité"'ausep.  vice de laquelle l'Acte constitutif de l'Organisation les engage.
9.23 Par conséquent, pour chacune des questions sur lesquelles vous allez devoir vous pencher,  c'est à la recherche persévérante du plus large terrain dlentenie que je vous invite. Souvenons-  nous, sur cette terre d'Afrique, de la leçon modeste mais exemplaire que nous donnent les hommes  des villages qui, réunis sous l'arbre, quand des problèmes importants se posent a leyr communauté,  ne ménagent ni leur peine ni leur patience pour réduire les antagonismes et parvenir à la concilia-  tion. C'est à cet effort que je vous convie. Et je ne crains pas de dire que si, comme je l'espèrede  ute ma foi dans la coopération internationale, l'appel que je vous adresse aujourd'hui  de cette terre d'Afrique est entendu, l'esprit de Nairobi" marquera de la façon la plus digne le tren-  tième anniversaire de notre Organisation et permettra à celle-ci de reprendre avec un souffle nou-  veau l'élan qui lui est indispensable pour répondre aux aspirations de tous les hommes et de tous les  peuples.  tout mon coeur, de to
10,1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Director-General. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the terms of Rule27  of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference it is my duty as temporary President to pro-  pose to the General Conference the members to be elected to the Credentials Committee. I pro-  pose that the following nine countries be elected as members of the Credentials Committee:  Ecuador, Mexico, Philippines, Poland, Sierra Leone, Sweden, Tunisia, United States of America,  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
10.2 There being no objections, I consider that the Credentials Committee is constituted with the  membership I have just indicated,
10.3 The Credentials Committee will be convened immediately after this meeting, and I shall  submit its first report at the second plenary meeting which will open this afternoon at 3.30 p,m,
10.4 The meeting is adjourned,  The meeting rose at 12, 50 p.m,  La séance est levée a 12h 50  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 12,50
3acemanne 3akpeiBaercs B 12.50  HEIN A4 LS 5 Grues Eds AS UU] ALI 5 OW P| FE as,