Seventh plenary meeting
29 November 1976 at 9. 30 a.m,  President: Mr. TOWEETT (Kenya)  then Mr. AL-CHERIF (Libyan Arab Republic)  Septième séance plénière
29 novembre 1976 à 9 h. 30  Président : M. TOWEETT (Kenya)  puis M, AL-CHERIF (République arabe libyenne)  Séptima sesiôn plenaria
29 Hos6ps 1976 r. B 9 yu. 30 MuH.  Ilpexcexarenu: r-u TOYOTT (Keuns)  r-H AJIL-MEPH® (Apabckas Jlupuiickas Pecny61uKa)  dsl] PA PES  edo Dem Nan BY ori) 03ST 1 4  (LS ) Cons Lead] : od)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)/DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)/DEBATE  DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)/ , ; ,  OBCY XIEHWE BOIIPOCOB OBIEHX NOJNHTHKH (npononxenne)/ ( e=b ) do lad a Lewd) aes Le
1. The PRESIDENT; Fro  I call the seventh plenary meeting to order to continue the general policy debate, and invite  H. E. the Hon. R. T. C. Munyenyembe, Minister of Education and Health, head of the delegation of  Malawi, to address us.
2,1 Mr. MUNYENYEMBE (Malawi):  Mr. President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen: On behalf of the Malawi dele-  gation, I should like to associate myself with those colleagues who have spoken before me in offer-  ing you congratulations on your election to the high office of President of this session ofghe General  Conference. It is particularly gratifying and, indeed, appropriate that, as we are holding the  General Conference of Unesco on African soil for the first time, a distinguished African has been  chosen to guide the deliberations. I have no doubt, Mr, President, that you will, like an experienced  Captain who steers his ship skilfully in all kinds of weather, guide the deliberations of this Confer-  ence to a successful conclusion. I believe itis the wish of every delegation that has come to this  Conference that we should achieve positive results and that the brotherly spirit which has so far  prevailed will: continue.
2.2 I bring with me to this session of the General Conference, Mr, President, best wishes for  fruitful deliberations from H. E. Ngwazi Dr. H. Kamuzu Banda, Life President of the Republic of  Malawi, and from the Government and people of Malawi.
2.3 Itis significant, Mr. President, that for the first time in the history of Unesco, the General  Conference is being held in Africa. Our brothers and sisters in Kenya deserve praise for meeting  the challenge to host the Conference. I am sure we will all admit that, from jie first re of  our magnificent opening ceremony, this has already shown itself to be a session of the Genera  Conference with a difference. We were, indeed, fortunate that, after the fatherly advice and the  words of wisdom by H. E. the President of the Republic of Kenya, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, RAGE  treated to a short but fascinating display of what African culture has to offer, in the form ° i à  dances and songs. It was a unique occasion ‘and I believe this is the first time that a session o  Unesco's General Conference has had such an opening ceremony. I am sure those of our colleagues  who come from developed countries and who had previously had no opportunity of SES an See  country will, by the end of this Conference, admit that it was worth while for the Conference to have  been held here.
365   “  President, that this nineteenth session of the General Conference  niversary of Malawi's status as a Republic. You will recall
4 and attained Republican status =
2.4 Itis also significant, Mr.  has coincided with the tenth an  Mr. President, that Malawi became independent on 6 July 196
6 July 1966. Malawi's relationship with Unesco dates back from the year of her independence, We  in Malawi have looked at the twelve years of our membership of Unesco as twelve years of fruiti  We have continued to support Unesco because we believe in those ideals for which  I still believe, Mr. President, that no matter what forces are  brought to bear to try and make Unesco deviate from its principles, the organization will triumph  and will continue to stand by its principles. We were privileged, Mr. President, to hear statements  or reports by the outgoing President, the Chairman of the Executive Board and the Director-General  all of whom made reference to some of the problems which Unesco as an organization had faced )  during and after the eighteenth session of the General Conference. They all appealed for unity ang  understanding. Mr. President, I am in full agreement with them. We should seek to emphasize  those things or ideals that unite us rather than those that separate us. I think we need to accept ag  axiomatic the fact that Unesco is the totality of the members that compose it. Its existence very  much depends on the spirit of mutual respect and co-operation that prevails among its members,  I wish to assure you, Mr. President, that you will not find my country wanting on the subject of co-  operation with other member countries of Unesco.
2.5 I am pleased to point out, Mr. President, that during its association with Unesco Malawi has  t only in the field of education but in many other sectors. Starting with rather  the time of independence in 1964, Malawi has, through the dynamic and wise  the Life President, Ngwazi Dr. H. Kamuzu Banda, achieved within its twelve  ch it can justifiably be proud. Our national income  The national income per capita has increased  co-operation,  Unesco as an organization stands.  seen development no  meagre resources at  leadership of H. E.,  years of independence an economic status of whi  at current prices has very nearly tripled since 1964.  by almost 55 per cent during this period.  largely based on agriculture, the government has paid particular  attention to agricultural development. A great deal of research has gone into this matter and the  Lilongwe Land Development Project, which is now in its third phase, has proved to be a great  success. Through the good guidance that is given by those in charge of the projects and through  the dedication of the people, other similar projects have been established and carried out with  similar success in other parts of the country. For we feel, Mr, President, that as a people we  should be able to feed, clothe and educate our children.
2.6 Since Malawi's economy is
2.7 Within the educational sphere proper, apart from quantitative improvements, which include  among other things having more schools, more equipment, etc. , there have also been systematic  steps taken to ensure qualitative improvement. Both the primary and the secondary school cur-  ricula were restructured to ensure that they were relevant to the needs of the pupils in a develop-  ing country. We strongly believe, Mr. President, that the curriculum must also take into account  the interests of the pupils or students. The pupil needs to see that there is a sense of purpose in  the work he is doing and that the work is or can be related to his immediate environment. The  pupil must be convinced that what he is learning is meaningful in his own life. Itis an accepted  truth that the concept of lifelong education extends beyond the limits of the school, but I feel,  nevertheless, that the school should continue to play its fundamental role in the education system.  It remains a major challenge for the school that through the professional skill of its teachers it  must shape the youth of today into useful citizens.
2.8 Mr. President, having made these brief introductory remarks, allow me to make a few com-  ments on the two main documents which are the subject of this debate - documents 19 C/4 and
19 C/5. Let me start by offering my congratulations to the Director-General and to all his col-  leagues who were involved in producing work of such a high standard. The introductions to both  documents are erudite and perspicuous - a clear sign that the utmost care was taken in the compi-  lation. Earlier on I stated, Mr. President, that Malawi has continued to be a member of Unesco  because it subscribes to what Unesco stands for. Malawi is strongly opposed to warfare and be-  lieves man can solve his problems by peaceful means. My government has always advocated the  policy of contact and dialogue because it believes in the virtue of peaceful change. Through the  establishment of an appropriate communication channel different people tend to know each other  better, and as soon as that happens hatred and prejudices slowly disappear and are replaced by  mutual respect. We welcome, therefore, the idea of the promotion of human rights and the strength-  ening of peace through mutual understanding among nations. We urge Unesco to continue to exert  its influence to reduce tension in those areas that fall within its competence or withinits jurisdiction.
2.9 Within the same chapter, there is yet another objective which I consider to be very important,  and this has to do with the improvement of the status of women. The brief statement of the problem  in document 19 C/4 gives us the hard facts - facts which we can scarcely dispute. It is unfortunately  true that in the field of education there continues to be inequality between men and women, and my  delegation is in full agreement with the proposals to enhance the status of women, You will be pleased  to know, Mr. President, that this is a subject to which my government has given a good deal of  thought. Our leader, H. E., the Life President, Ngwazi Dr. H. Kamuzu Banda, has always made  sure that women's rights are protected and that women take their rightful place in society. Our  leader has always emphasized that there should be no restrictions whatsoever. Any women who  sho the necessary aptitude and capability should be allowed to enter business. We have now in  Malawi women who compete on an equal basis with men in any type of business that you can think
366     E E      of. We have women who own and even manage several estates,  ident, in support of the sentiments which have been expressed in  to note that the programme actions include the training of women  of women in rural areas. I hope that the principle of equitable ge  taken into account in making the awards for this training,  Member States' requests, there is provision for advisory  programmes for the advancement of women in Unesco's fi  I make these comments, Mr. Pres-  document 19 C/4. I am pleased  organizers for the advancement  ographical distribution will be  I am also gratified to note that at  services from Unesco to support national  elds of competence.
9.10 Mr. President, the budget estimates seem again to be on the high side.  comes the revised budget estimates in document 19 C/5 Rev. 3 which reduces  posed for the 1977-1978 biennium from $235,850, 000 to $224, 413,000.  impact of recent world increases in prices, we still consider these budget estimates to be rather  high, and what is perhaps a disappointing feature is that the greater portion of the budget still goes to the payment of staff salaries. I feel we should not merely pay lip service to the idea of a new  international economic order. Our budget estimates should not be so high as to put undue stress  on certain members of the Organization. I hope distinguished delegates will look at the budget  more closely and suggest where further savings can be made. I also feel that Unesco as an organi-  zation has reached the stage where it should channel its resources to identifiable priority fields  from which man may benefit and should leave out anything which may be of a peripheral nature, I  know that the Director-General has increased programme activities for the benefit of Member  States and I can only hope this trend will continue, I certainly hope that the Director-General and  his colleagues will do all they can to stop the steep rise in the budget estimates, which has become  a common feature in our C/5 documents.  My delegation wel-  the total budget pro-  While we appreciate the
2.11 Mr, President, I stated earlier that my government fully supports the existence of this re-  markable Organization and is always appreciative of the assistance it receives from Unesco. We  will continue to support Unesco in its quest for a just peace. Allow me to take this opportunity,  on behalf of the Government and the people of the Republic of Malawi and on behalf of my delega-  tion, to assure you, once again, of our support for the programmes suggested in documents 19 C/4  and 19 C/5. My delegation will, of course, avail itself of the opportunity to make further comments  as we make our way through the agenda. Mr. President, I thank you for giving me this opportunity  to speak.
3. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Malawi and I call on H. E. Mrs. Marjatta Väänänen,  Minister for Education and head of the delegation of Finland, to address us.
41 Mrs. VAANANEN (Finland):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, may I start by joining, on behalf of the delegation of Fin-  land, those speakers who have congratulated you upon your election as President of this Conference.  In this connection I should also like to express our appreciation to the Government of Kenya, which  has offered to act as host to this nineteenth session of the General Conference.
4.2 It is of special significance for Unesco and for all the participants in this session that we are  meeting on the African continent and in these impressive surroundings. Unesco is celebrating its  thirtieth anniversary this year. I feel that we have cause to be proud of our Organization and of its  achievements in the past. The international dimension in education, science and culture has been  more firmly established than ever before in modern history. The ideals and programmes of Unesco  have contributed to the social and cultural development of all mankind, At the same time, the power-  ful forces of education and culture have been mobilized to serve peace and friendly co-operation  among nations,
4.3 Discussion about and around Unesco has always been lively. This is a sign of life and reflects  the fact that education, science and culture are not neutral and technical subjects but are, on the  contrary, loaded with emotional, ideological and political values.
4.4 Since the last session of the General Conference, this international discussion about Unesco  has been especially vocal, if not always well informed. It has helped to focus attention on our  Organization and its programmes. But it has certainly also created tensions which will be reflected  in our debates here. There are certain items on the agenda which are bound to cause controversy  between countries with differing political and social systems and different ideologies. I see no  reason why Unesco should not deal with these kinds of questions. That, after all, is one of the  Organization's jobs. But I should like to draw attention to a consideration of procedure. I do not  think it is wise to try to decide complex issues which involve ideological and philosophical questions  by a majority vote, since such a procedure only tends to split the Organization and negate the recom-  mendations and declarations thus passed. In matters subject to ideological dispute I should there-  fore recommend the slow and difficult method of working by consensus.
4.5 The Final Act of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe which was signed by
35 heads of State or government from Europe and North America, on 1 August 1975 in Helsinki,  Was the product of a slow and careful negotiating process, which led to a consensus among all the  Participating States. Herein lies its true historic meaning. The Final Act of the Helsinki Confer-  ence also deals with questions that are within Unesco's competence, such as improving the circula-  tion of, access to, and exchange of, information, co-operation and exchanges in the field of culture
367   and education, and co-operation in the field of science, technology and the environment. As We  eneral of Unesco addressed the Conference during its second stage, and al  the request of the Conference, the Government of Finland transmitted the text of the Final Act do  the Director-General of Unesco, It was resolved that the participating States should pay due re.  gard to the provisions of the Final Act and implement them within the framework of existing orga-  nizations, such as the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe and Unesco, with regard  to educational, scientific and cultural co-operation. It is the wish of the Finnish delegation that  this session of the General Conference pay due attention to the follow-up, within Unesco's domain  of the Final Act. We also hope that the work of this session can be conducted in the same construc.  tive and friendly spirit that came to characterize the Helsinki Conference.  know, the Director-G
4.6 It may be argued that the Final Act of the Conference and the spirit of Helsinki apply only to  those States of Europe and North America that participated in the Conference on Security and Co-  operation in Europe and that they are therefore of no immediate value to the countries of Africa,  Asia and Latin America, whose soical and educational problems rightly dominate the actions of  Unesco. It is clear, however, that maintaining and strengthening the process of international  détente, particularly among the participating States of the Conference on Security and Co-operation  in Europe, is of paramount importance for real progress in disarmament, in reducing the levels  of military expenditure, and thus in making it possible to free additional resources for peaceful  development on a world-wide scale. Only in this manner will it be possible for mankind to take  serious steps towards the establishment of a new international economic order, the second major  item on the agenda of our Conference. It is in this way that security and co-operation in Europe  are linked to the imperatives of global development.
4.7 Unesco's contribution to the establishment of a new international economic order has been  stressed by the Director-General in his Introduction to the Draft Medium-Term Plan of the Organi-  zation, and this approach permeates the whole of the plan, My delegation supports the efforts to  realize the goals of the new international economic order and also Unesco's specific mission in  this context. We also agree with the Director-General's interpretation of the world order as  embracing economic, social and cultural dimensions and satisfying the basic human aspirations  towards progress, peace and justice. In this context I should like to say that my delegation supports  the main lines of emphasis in the Draft Medium-Term Plan and particularly those concerning human  rights, the strengthening of peace, and development,
4.8 Finland has for years advocated what has been called an integrated approach to development,  In our view, measuring development in quantitative, economic terms alone is not enough, The  social and cultural dimension of development is of crucial importance and we stress that this dimen-  sion must always be kept in mind. We know from recent experience that the social and cultural  aspects of development have been overshadowed by the strong emphasis on economic factors in the  current discussion on the implementation of a new international economic order. This trend may  only be strengthened in the preparatory work for the Third Development Decade, unless those who  feel strongly about the social and cultural dimension are prepared to make an active contribution  to that preparatory work. My delegation has studied with great interest particularly Part I of docu-  ment 19 C/72, which to our mind seems to indicate preparedness to make such contribution, The  formulation in paragraph 28 is fully in line with our own thinking on the subject. I should like to  quote the first sentence: ''Not only does the new order which it is planned to establish possess a  socio-cultural dimension but its goal, transcending the field of strictly economic development, is  also designed to achieve 'the development of all men and of the whole man'".
4.9 As regards the Draft Medium-Term Plan as a whole, my delegation would like to express its  satisfaction with the development of the planning process of Unesco in general. We think that the
19 C/4 document is a step forward towards the goals set for medium-term planning by the eighteenth  session of the General Conference
4.10 These, Mr. President, are some of our main preoccupations concerning the development of  the activities of Unesco. The members of my delegation will revert to these questions in greater  detail in the appropriate bodies of the General Conference. Thank you, Mr. President, for your  attention.
5. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Finland for her very clear, very forthright and very nove  ing speech. I now call on the Commissioner for Education and Culture and head of the delegation  of Ghana, Mr. Owusu-Fordwouh,
6.1 Mr. OWUSU-FORDWOUH (Ghana):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, distinguished ladies and gentlemen: On behalf of the Ghana  delegation and on my own behalf, I wish to congratulate you Mr, President, most sincerely, on  your election to preside over this session of the General Conference. I wish also to take this oppor  tunity to thank the President of the Republic of Kenya, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, and the Government  and people of Kenya for taking the initiative to invite the General Conference to hold its nineteen  Session on African soil: It was when many of the African countries gained their independence  from colonial rule and became members of Unesco that our Organization started to orientate its  programmes to help in the development of the newly independent countries. It is therefore fitting  and proper that in its thirtieth year, when Unesco could be said to have truly reached full maturity
368      and universality, that the General Conference should hold one of its sessions on the continent of  Africa. The African Member States have benefited greatly from the programmes of Unesco in the fields of education, science, culture and communication, But they have also contributed their quota to the dynamism of Unesco,
6,2 In this connection, allow me, Mr. President, to pay tribute to the memory of Mr. René Maheu  our former Director-General, who took a personal and active interest in the affairs of developing  nations. It was with great shock and sorrow that we heard of his death, barely a year after his  retirement, The Ghana Government and the entire people of Ghana join me in expressing our deep-  est sympathies to the bereaved family and to Unesco, We are greatly relieved and encouraged to  find in the present Director-General, Mr. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, a man with the energy, drive  and vision necessary for the pursuit of the general welfare and prosperity of the developing nations.
6.3 The African countries, like all the developing countries of the world, are beset with a host of  problems. That is why we view with satisfaction the efforts the Director-General has made to plan  the activities of the Organization in order to help solve some of the problems that face the world,  For the past fifty years many Member States, including some of the newly independent countries,  have adopted the practice of drawing up development plans to guide them in carrying out their  development programmes on a systematic basis. The Draft Medium-Term Plan for 1977-1982  (document 19 C/4) is a first-class example of a development plan. It analyses the problems of  the world community in Unesco's fields of competence, and sets the objectives which must be  achieved in order to overcome those problems. If Unesco's future programmes are prepared  according to the guidelines laid down in the Medium-Term Plan, they will be more likely to meet  the needs of Member States in the long run. My delegation therefore supports the Medium-Term  Plan in principle and congratulates the Executive Board on its masterly review of the contents of  the document.
6.4 The Ghana delegation notes with appreciation the emphasis that Unesco gives to the renovation  of education and the close link that must exist between education and work. This is the type of  education that will make the products of our schools employable and enchance the economie, social  and cultural development of our countries. For this reason my delegation calls upon the African  Member States, and Unesco, to implement the recommendations, particularly recommendations 4  and 14, adopted by the Conference of Ministers of Education of African Member States, held in  Lagos at the beginning of this year. In Ghana, steps have already been taken to gear educational  action to the needs of the community, and to make it more relevant to our social and economic  goals and aspirations, and thus arrest the depersonalization of our cultural identity. The content  of the new educational system which has been adopted in Ghana aims at the kind of curriculum that  will make education both terminal and continuing. It will orient the pupil in the first cycle  psychologically to his immediate environment, provide him with some basic knowledge, and expose  him to some necessary skills that will enable him to earn a living in that environment, and at the  same time it will lay the requisite foundation for those who are academically, technically and voca-  tionally more capable to continue to the institutions in the second cycle, for which the new structure  of education has made provision. It is planned that the new programme of education should become  operational in 1980. Although a great deal of thinking has gone into the formulation of the new  structure and content of education for Ghana, there is still some doubt as to what should really  constitute the content of basic education, especially since for the foreseeable future, education at  the first-cycle level is the only education which most children in developing countries like Ghana  are likely to get. Unesco should therefore carry out studies to define what basic education is, and  what is more important, what the content of basic education should be, particularly for developing  countries, One other concept which Unesco has to spell out is lifelong education. Unesco has  been using the term for some time now.
6.5 Itis encouraging to note that the objectivity shown by the Director-General in his introductory  analysis to the Draft Programme and Budget permeates the activities proposed for science and  technology. This is shown by the fact that greater attention continues-to be paid to the natural  Sciences sector as is reflected in the growth rate of 6.3 per cent over the budget for 1975-1976.  For it is by increasing its activities in science and technology that Unesco can strengthen the  scientific and technological capacity of the developing countries, and enable them to apply science  and technology to their own development. My delegation, Mr. President, calls upon the Director-  General to implement, inthe comingbiennium, the recommendations adopted in Dakar in January
1974, by the Conference of Ministers of African Member States Responsible for the Application of  Science and Technology to Development, particularly by establishing a Special Fund for African  Research and Development. In order to utilize the fund to the best advantage when established,  Unesco should help African scientists to set up a machinery for co-operation among themselves.  It should be possible for scientists from neighbouring African countries to meet from time to time  to exchange ideas or even carry out joint projects. Africa is a very large continent, where dis-  tances are great and communication difficult. To co-ordinate the activities of such groups of  scientists, therefore, it would be necessary for Unesco to create subregional offices for science  and technology in Africa, The General Conference has already accepted in principle a proposal  to establish such a subregional office for science and technology for West Africa. It is hoped that  a definite decision on the matter will be taken at this session of the General Conference.
6.6 Mr, President, my delegation supports the priority which the Director-General is giving to  the study of the mutual relationships between cultures; channels of communications between them;
369   zed by the encounter of different cultures, and the development of programmes  ion of cultures as a factor in international understanding, Exactly  a year ago my country, Ghana, had the singular honour of hosting the Intergovernmental Conference  on Cultural Policies in Africa. At the opening of that Conference, the Head of State of Ghana ang  Chairman of the Supreme Military Council had this to say: "'We live in a world in which a high  premium is laid on culture as a means of fostering international co-operation and understanding,  and we should be prepared, more than ever before, to project our own cultural image and to Shire  the cultural treasures of our choice with others. The message of culture transcends many barriers  the din and confusion created by other areas of human endeavour", Ë  regions characteri  directed to the mutual appreciat  and can be heard above
6.7 The invitation given by the Government of the Republic of Kenya, with the support of her Sister  African Member States, to the General Conference to convene its nineteenth session in Africa, is  a sure proof of Africa's wish to share its rich culture with the rest of the world, and to co-operate  in achieving the goals which the founding fathers of Unesco set for our Organization. It is for this  reason that we deplore, with all the seriousness at our command, the oppression and denial of  human rights that are meted out to our brothers and sisters in the southern part of Africa; an  action which is aided and abetted by some of the Member States represented here.
6.8 Mr. President, it is often said that Africans have no culture; yet during the colonial era,  many important objects which testify to our cultural heritage, including archaeological findings of  rich artistic and historical value, were taken away. They are still being taken away and kept in  foreign countries as private collections, or put on display in national museums. My delegation  appeals to all Member States to adhere strictly to the terms of the conventions which the General  Conference adopted in the past concerning cultural property and calls upon the Director-General  to continue his efforts to ensure the return of works of art and findings of an archaeological nature  to their countries of origin.
6.9 Since language is one of the chief vehicles through which every culture expresses itself, and  since many African languages are still unwritten, Unesco should give top priority to the ten-year  plan for the systematic study of oral traditions and the promotion of African languages. The develop-  ment of languages goes side by side with the writing of books. Unesco should therefore encourage  projects for the writing, production, distribution and reading of books. This could be accelerated  by the establishment of National Book Development Councils, particularly in the developing coun-  tries. Any such encouragement would be greatly welcomed.
6.10 We are all concerned about the proliferation of international instruments adopted by this  Organization, and I am sure the Conference would not take kindly to new instruments being proposed  to it. But there is one class of workers which has been ignored so far. They do very essential  work, but the nature of their work keeps them in the background. I am referring to documentalists,  librarians and archivists. My delegation therefore proposes that the General Conference should  consider the desirability of adopting, in the near future, an international instrument on the social  conditions and status of this class of workers.
6.11 Mr. President, may I now be allowed to address myself to a very important issue: the  issue of the new international economic order. What we in the developing countries want when we  advocate the establishment of a new international economic order is justice and fair play. The  practice whereby the developed countries buy our primary commodities cheaply while they sell  dearly to us the capital goods and equipment we require for our development, the unstable inter-  national monetary system over which we have no control, the unfavourable conditions for the trans-  fer of financial resources, the refusal of some countries to sign commodity agreements, the ves-  tiges of colonial rule and exploitation, et cetera - these are some of the factors which have created  disparities between the developed and developing countries. They are the factors responsible for  the ever-growing gap between the rich and the poor nations. They are the factors we are attempi-  ing to eliminate. The countries of the Third World no longer want to be the poor relations of the  developed countries, going to them cap in hand for aid to develop their economies. That is why  many of our countries have adopted the policy of self-reliance. We want to be able to carry out  our development progremmes in our own way, and from our own resources. This we can do if  a fairer system of international economic relations can be established. Obviously, Unesco has  an important and overriding role to play in it, and the programme of action which the Director-  General, Mr. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, has so ably elaborated goes to confirm the trust we have  always placed in this illustrious son of Africa. In Mr. M'Bow we have not only a respected repre-  sentative of Africa in the community of nations, but above all an excellent international executive  capable of leading this Organization towards the objectives for which it was established. It is ou  hope that this Conference will be able to give his programme enthusiastic support and provide hin  with the necessary budgetary means for translating it into effective action. Thank you, Mr. Presl-  dent and fellow delegates.
7. The PRESIDENT;  I wish to thank the head of the delegation of Ghana and I call upon H. E. Mr. Wichian  Watanakun, Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of Thailand to Unesco and head of the delega-  tion of Thailand, to address us.
8.1 Mr. WATANAKUN (Thailand):  Mr, President, Mr. Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen: 2
370      behalf of the delegation of Thailand, I should like to express to you, Mr. President, our warm and  sincere congratulations upon your election as President of the nineteenth session of the General  Conference. I am confident that, guided by your vast experience and profound knowledge of the  work and problems of Unesco, the General Conference will achieve its objectives in a most fruit-  ful and efficient manner.
8.2 With your permission, Mr. President, I should like to take this opportunity to express our  thanks and deepest appreciation to the Government of Kenya for its generous hospitality and for  all its commendably thoughtful efforts in the preparation of this General Conference. We are very  happy to be in Nairobi, with its lofty site and wonderful scenery. Itis indeed one of the most  beautiful cities in the world.
8.3 A tribute of appreciation must surely be paid to the Director-General and members of the  Secretariat for the tremendous intellectual effort that has gone into the preparation of the Draft  Medium-Term Plan (1977-1982). It scrutinizes for us very thoroughly the current major world  issues which we are now facing, with greater challenges than ever before. The Thai delegation  fully endorses the problem -centred approach adopted by Unesco. Witheachproblem putin aproper  perspective, a hypothesis can be reliably formulated; and hence solutions and development can be  expected.
8.4 Mr. President, allow me now to make a certain number of observations on the objectives and  principles of action as laid down in the Draft Medium-Term Plan, This I will do sector by sector.
8.5 First, with regard to education, the Thai delegation in principle lends its support to the objec-  tives and work plan which Unesco has clearly spelled out in both documents (19 C/4 and 19 C/5).  Permit me to refer specifically to Objective 2. 3 - Development of school and out-of-school pro-  grammes aimed at furthering peace and international understanding. For all its weight, more  emphasis is still needed on the importance of physical education, and the role of international or  regional sports tournaments in advancing Unesco's ideals. The sporting spirit should be considered  one of the strategies for peace and international understanding, There can really be no doubt that  it promotes tolerance.
8.6 The Thai delegation welcomes Unesco's attempt to tackle problems of social disharmony and  human environments - particularly problems concerning drugs. Drugs have often been used - or,  should I say, misused - without discretion as a means of escape from social pressures, stresses  and strains, As one cannot in fact escape from these realities, it is most encouraging to see  Unesco bring all its energies to bear upon the problem and its causes.
8.7 Turning now to natural sciences and their application to development, the Thai delegation notes  with satisfaction that the science sector receives a substantial increase in its budget. There is no  denying the fact that science and technology play an indispensable role in the development of the  nation and in the reduction of the development gap. Thus science should feature most importantly  in the new international economic order. I believe that sciences and technology will form the main  hub of that new order. Furthermore, science should enable a nation to solve its own peculiar  problems and do away with imported technology which, in many cases, has proved to be ill-suited  to the character of that nation. In this connection, the idea of proclaiming an international science  and technology year is most welcome, It is also stimulating that Unesco attaches great significance  to marine science, The study of the sea and its resources is of paramount importance to the liveli-  hood of several nations, contributing concretely to the promotion of the new international economic  order, Thailand participated in various conferences on the law of the sea. We are particularly  concerned with the problem of coastal regions and recently organized, with Unesco's collaboration,  a Seminar on the Conservation of Marine Resources.
8.8 Mr, President, the Thai delegation wishes to draw the attention of the General Conference to  the recommendation of the Sixth Regional Conference of National Commissions of Asia and Oceania  held in New Delhi in November 1975, urging Unesco to establish, if possible, regional networks in  science and technology, including for instance, a regional centre for scientific and technical infor-  mation, or a regional centre for technology transfer. It is felt that Unesco should assist develop-  ing countries in drawing up science and technology policies, as well as in educating the public in  environmental science at all levels.
8.9 As regards the social sciences sector, the Thai delegation would like to compliment Unesco on  giving the social sciences an important place in its programme along with the natural and physical  sciences. We think that the programme, both for the next biennium and for the medium term, has  been meticulously worked out and deserves our whole-hearted support. We note with satisfaction  the emphasis placed on the role of the social sciences in development. However, we feel that there  is much affinity between Chapter I on the assurance of human rights and Chapter VI on quantitative  and qualitative improvement in the opportunities for certain groups to achieve their individual and  social potential, While it might not be possible to integrate the two chapters, it would be desirable  to include in Chapter I only society-wide perspectives, and in Chapter VI only such segments of  society as women and youth, Furthermore, in connection with Chapter II on the reinforcement of  peace, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as international law cannot operate in a  vacuum but must be seen within the framework of international economics and politics, so there is  aneed to include those two elements in Objective 2,2, Finally, in Chapter III on man as the centre
371   f the new international economic order should be directed t of development, the main thrust o ; :  ment, without damaging cultural identity.  independent and integrated develop  OWards
8.10 Mr. President, as far as the field of culture is concerned, it is our feeling that the Director.  General has proposed arichanda most useful programme. Thailand would like very much to support  his proposal to strengthen the programmes of "cultural studies and circulation" most particulary  as regards the studies on Malay and South East Asian cultures. The studies on an extended basis  as proposed by the Director-General will no doubt give impetus to the spirit of regionalism, and  will provide wider opportunities for participation on the part of all the countries in the region,  Besides, we should like to give our full support to the promotion of cultural studies in Asia, espe-  cially the study of traditional art and culture in all forms - oral as well as written - together with  research on cultural values. This is undoubtedly in keeping with the recommendations made at the  Intergovernmental Conference on Cultural Policies in Asia held in Yogyakarta in 1973. This objec-  tive, I understand, is being given high priority by Unesco.
8.11 Itis our understanding also that Unesco is in favour of encouraging the establishment of a net.  work of adult or lifelong education centres in countries that need them. We feel that there is a great  opportunity to bring about ‘access to culture' by using these various centres within alargernetwork,  It is our suggestion, therefore, that Unesco explore further the means of bringing culture to the  people through the network of lifelong education centres,
8.12 Thailand also supports Unesco's programme for the preservation and promotion of culture and  the national heritage. We strongly feel that the activities for this programme should be continued  and expanded to include other major monuments and sites in Asia. Thailand has already submitted  a draft resolution appealing to the General Conference to authorize the Director-General of Unesco  to include the preservation and promotion of Sukhothai, the first capital of Thailand, in the above-  mentioned programme.
8.13 It is most gratifying to note that the whole of Chapter II of the Medium- Term Plan is devoted  to the study of peace. There are, of course, many ways of attaining peace. One of these ways is,  I think, peace through moral values. It seems to me that all the non-peaceful things originate  from the human qualities of greed, hatred and delusion. Thus, in addition to other efforts aimed  at achieving peace, we, in the field of culture and education, should try to persuade both young  people and adults to minimize the evil feelings of greed, hatred and delusion towards one another,  Men have achieved for themselves a great scientific intelligence; but have they achieved enough  social intelligence in order to live together in peace? Apparently not. It is our suggestion, there-  fore, that Unesco seriously promote studies and research as regards "peace through moral values",  in order to reinforce studies in other directions.
8.14 In the field of communication, the Thai delegation wishes to express its approval of the objec-  tives of the programmes as outlined in Chapters IX and X of the Draft Medium-Term Plan. May!  stress once again, Mr. President, that the activities proposed should spread in proportion to geo-  graphical distribution, and, what is more, the emphasis should be on providing the technical know-  how and the necessary equipment to carry them out. Thus it is appropriate that training courses  in communication should be offered to Member States that may need them in their attempt to build  an infrastructure for communication development.
8.15 To conclude this discussion of Unesco's programme, a few words on its Regional Offices  are necessary. As you are all aware, Thailand is the seat of Unesco's Regional Office for Educa-  tion in Asia. We are happy to have been able to provide host country facilities to the Regional  Office and to participate extensively in many programmes carried out by that Office. On behalf  of the Royal Government of Thailand, I should like to express our appreciation of the highly effec-  tive and efficient way in which Unesco's Regional Office for Education in Asia has been function-  ing, and of the contribution it has made to strengthening regional co-operation. I am glad to  mention in particular the Asian Programme of Educational Innovation for Development. Begun  only three years ago, it has already proved itself as an important and valuable programme of  mutual help and co-operation among Asian Member States. We in Thailand appreciate the Asian  Programme and have been participating in it fully. We shall continue to support it and hope it  will be expanded further in the coming years and that Unesco will substantially increase its  financial support for it.
8.16 I note that the Director-General proposes to decentralize Unesco's activities. Decentraliza-  tion is essential to ensure that Unesco's programmes and activities meet the needs of the Member  States and respond to them. These needs vary from country to country and Unesco's action must  take these differences into account. Furthermore, the execution of the programme must be  efficient and timely. Decentralization should therefore be designed to ensure relevance and  efficiency, and it should be carried out speedily.
8.17 Along with decentralization, another important need is the co-ordination of Unesco's pro-  grammes and activities, particularly those which are at the operational level in closest contact  with the Member States. The Thai delegation notes with gratification and strongly supports is  Director-General's proposal to extend the functions of the Director of Unesco's Regional Office  for Education to include the co-ordination of all Unesco's activities in the region.
8.18 My final note, Mr. President, isithat Thaïland pledges its full support for Unesco's activities, 7 We will continue, as a member of this international Organization, to exercise our right and perform our duty in the common interest of mankind. For we are, after all, b  Thank you, Mr. President. rethren in this global village.
9, The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the head of the dele  on the next speaker, H. E. Mr. Ahmed AL-CHERIF,  tion of the Libyan Arab Republic.  gation of Thailand for his speech and I call  Minister of Education and head of the delega-  eel pall Band) ) Gil sl deo Sl rl)  Tall aad) Wer i Sr Lead! opis Lisl, * Lug, 30 LY rl pus, ad]  Le 5 5) seu . Bis odd lad) jug lle Ga lid) 5,9 J) EE  Se 0 lp led Loy plan YL (SAS ass Ll 5 gn] gos  o— JL dideg Fae AY J 8, BI) 0d 5 jest) 13e vBal oes Lil. Gabo) aa 531 Ls as ols  er JT 5 A) pba File Wipsmrdallisn; SB Alle pe Ge Svein) 2 pod! Lisl Las là, Laa)l  oplzallics mil geizall of 0 aues lms Ew oe aT Lalas ian... Les (le 5Cuig  « \xuas dy allaïo JNs WES IPR EN due pol Ga lagu Lola Lag lie Sees  wpm lish 5 dally asic, hi dla LVS RE 5e | P| ER JO 51 APE | Ste NON  & tp pelle dg de 5 pall zu GH tr 6 Sle lala nn g Baw dl dalla  “491 ll 356, Gr haohue lip des EL, ball Ls J alte coul op pial « Cytl
9. bLAN 056 Sg « ea balks las oxàJly au iit © al sD dal (oS vs Gly  o_slgs * Llu, Ÿ eld ball Brel égal bl ally pol pd! © Jf edly de ul «dx; Lies
230 leadly 5, Lanly GBA 3S), Sig poy apts Glo € Jens dle Ve des « Lae Sp Rd  adoré aïe « gaapall GL WoL dolla LL Len ve « Sis pall BJ le ls Br sto  o$ el Ly Lasdly gail Cd 25 ay yaad) Less 55 AUS « Jolly aly galls Lad ee  SU asl ie Lad ell) Laks, Loti) | Gs Ÿ 1 godt 3B Gb VS: doll Let «1 Lyte  el Vin 5 Jy pal ol dot 6h Vis 31 + Ls V1 ion 88 Le ds lll on, 5  Jl LU ells pay iss sl ais pad bony Locholhas coli 5 bpm II La  Ta ay ds “1 ; Lans @ Lola V ps pil os oo « Lis broth Lode oS + p KL dug, + &l,b,  hi gill er  o—b 295 Geet Wl Ge Lal IIs ee V1 pial iy los V1 ge Yi Sl doe Se  ee Ed La BIN os | ER sp i JR lpr Je Ep crm LE L Ls glow ¥1  +)
373   Oe 5 Sy Loto sl Cym al éols, Em lasse Jel lon oH Just 3 Slay  abate : oh Bel, és Ys ol Jeg 16S) ol ous asia 91 aL a Lest |  fo Bo Lay all 31, ms pt ond to kJ Vi pln Hoey  em iN nl Lo Yl dba ol « td “Loss ps Add iy alle Les  ms eA pes 0 suit Has of ddl Bet dal ce ale 9,0 Jus phedl Jad pe oli das,  lin gall ge ype Vs is Lad Ws Jib ml ail 00m 1 le Bn BY nol a  opis os gril EEE] We 5 IN BY 5 90 api 5 5% Ys 0,  slg abla RE ella hE spas Lpuziel pil deadly  Shim ot ‘ AE dpb 5b Las De ° iA bi, ne  — ya x « ass Glo Bi @ls rs Blugtl JS vols lie Lies oS, mas =  als SA lis « de Ge po à Gas ) 11 pe Ge dali] &]  NET Sl al oe Ea ab oe M SS SEY tele a  ai yg Cran Sh Spin SS les Jl I  « V8, alan oball su. las oul!  sl? Eg PETITES cars i) L 23156 0  s yn,  ie BL ll gp 9 onl JS Lyle 01 3,8 El AI ib ie, AI Gb bwin Linas oly  ob ba], 2) La ok Less sl a ml Yes =o VC adlecSe 5 cu  gb Ji lass +s del BAN J Lug dL SUIS «Sal Dba YI 505 lout  Us æln0 Lolly Lola ls : bigs is) ¢ asad) 3,550 Slows spy dl Jona]! 5 abla, Wl bs  Li GDS lhl) Lass lind old du 0 deg OÙ gr LE LAN dati Lo Yl dS
639 € Slow! JS Joc Lanle 5 Lo ds Youu pense) a 15 aL Ab de AJ Se BEE)  wd BY lie 5 ed wl Lela bl guy ladly veladl IS Sov, gd! dadadl Bold) pany dos  hb mss 55 p Lew Lda) as al by td) M «py dV) baad) Los 18a Sy bay] Gall  POUPCT| és pli dl CERT EP 0% | 1 WOO. 4] i SN] IPR AL 9 PCO PR HEN las DR) RE WS Vr WR  el SY cela Se conn » Brussels Jad) Gogiuad) Glo gud) pda] 5 ust] anys  — pdt) (5pm 0e a Pl ES Lede IS 5 Badal Gidea los Sépia ls OL  Eile ES Lapin 2 Ue 055; 5e Ba IESCIY as + PORN JT  Jed Belges ol Gob ue € bo) spe (gb pubatllpb l Sally CEN és plan YU € 575 VV BA JE Lup, dead) BBA 3,080 pate I lol ood iy VOA  ST cain SEY Jl Gola glad) Jet VIS ¢ Sas! pall Ji (gle Yh  « JAI days Bouse], Las pv cl Jess (dogs 8 low be ls as lle] los  Se Se Hl only sa BEI IL gli 5e BDs l- IX 05 LA  snide pS pe dalle Lan l Jol gs + Lui) Litto die 55 ¢ Gaasille Lis   &_ SEL Geom) Las lu oi) € Ju YU I ya SIA as Jy U1 6 as Le 5% AuhyFrues pr Lui be S355 Bue LJ]  «3h 41 bye Lis ad) Ce by ois eld IS dues  ee das gl ap aadl Golan Yl pled) page) «sol *Lacl, PL, Bold] 6 put dl gl 1)
94) «ol VLG, vo Bias By as | LIST ein 550 LS as ose llc as saut, LeJl ral  Co gg pln ge 2ST 5 a pated le Lab Gt alliage pen Phil  Le ola] poladl dle Nan dade bUall puns qu so Lx ob lise Sallis  Appl doles Y  phil eds lo ll dy dole Yaoi) Lis dl 5 Gs is Las | ps Apr ge « Belin  bli Buta ued 56 hl sola YI plat 5 hilly Wl aes Seda ole 5 sb of oo  pio cai Cpt ae I ilk Bll Ge A 501 by à din) à, kann dl pill Js 0  dass labs, pad ola a of Oe 78 42e Jong SSII» Sue Lisl 5 LouLassl adie, ash obo  de pe Lin uns oF SU Sail Vin 55 lcm Ys gré 5h 5 Plats éjolla)l el So igs d dea  + endl GLASS Yl LE ibe puy gl pL V1 le LAS] Sel but
5, — Uk; gris basal ge in 59 Lolo 51 Giono res STE A ia  JRPTOUSR OM DOWIC BAC (55 BAP Ace, WS | b 2 pn Wl Leytls alld old) bgaall 1. oS) unas  pa, > Aly 0 300 lt Yampa Ls dss) Tally gle) pra ll Gl [us Ldeod Lis Lona 51  oe ise pd le alld Lyall 5,0 SORURCIAI 3 ETRE | Loven Le Goi odie Jas 94 Gm tm ier peo A op Bali) dn Glas fe Lane LL] Vs Tet lind gu We Bunt Ls)
5S nl le Bosal 5 la dols « msi de ¢ eg load) 000 ang = LISA rr SN | pl 51 LS ob blond) Go Bid) 5 ibe Tp aso BB SRE G8 Lb cto ae Cod Ly YT sc!
(10.1) M. AL-CHERIF (République arabe libyenne). - (Traduit de l'arabe, )  Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les chefs et membres des délégations, il m'est agréable de vous  saluer, au nom de la République arabe libyenne, à l'occasion de la réunion de la dix-neuvième session de  la Conférence générale de cette Organisation. Et tout d'abord, permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, de  vous féliciter pour la confiance que la Conférence générale vous a témoignée en vous élisant à l'unanimité  président de cette session qui se tient dans votre pays et sur le sol de notre prestigieux continentafricain.  Nous estimons que la réunion de cette Conférence sur ce continent a une signification profonde et témoigne  d'une haute valeur de civilisation, car l'Afrique d'aujourd'hui est un symbole nouveau de l'universalité de  la culture, ce concept humaniste élevé que l'Unesco s'engage à mettre en oeuvre, depuis sa fondation,  s'employant avec l'ensemble de ses organes à l'incarner dans la société humaine contemporaine, Ce qui  veut dire qu'une impulsion culturelle nouvelle soutiendra la marche de cette Organisation au cours de cette  session et après qu'elle aura pris fin,
(10.2) Monsieur le Président, la ferme volonté des Etats du monde de créer l'Organisation pour l'éduca-  tion, la science et la culture, à l'issue de la Deuxième Guerre mondiale, a été un événement humain capital,  qui a prouvé que la conscience du monde était lasse des malheurs des guerres et du déchirement des peuples  c'est cette conscience et son noble idéal qui ont incité à asseoir sur des bases solides la compréhension  internationale ,.. Et quelle compréhension peut exister, si elle ne se fonde sur le savoir ? Les Etats et  les peuples ont des aspirations et des intérêts divers, voire contradictoires, qui ont provoqué et continuent  à provoquer guerres et conflits violents, C'est pourquoi la clé de l'établissement des fondements de la  paix entre les peuples se trouve, à notre avis, à l'Unesco ; en effet, aucune autre organisation interna-  tionale ne peut jouer le rôle de tribune de l'entente et de la fraternité des peuples mieux que l'Unesco, phare  du savoir, de la science et de l'éducation, et pionnier des idéaux humanistes dans ce siècle que l'intérêt  matériel a presque dépouillé de la plupart de ses idéaux, La République arabe libyenne fonde de grands  espoirs sur cette Organisation et lui apporte son appui sans réserve pour l'accomplissement de sa mission  humanitaire, en raison même de sa vocation spécifique au rapprochement des cultures, L'appui matériel  et moral à cette Organisation, est un devoir qui s'impose à tous les peuples, et qui exige d'eux qu'ils dé-  passent leurs conflits idéologiques pour s'engager dans la voie de l'entente et de la fraternité.
(10.3) Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les chefs et membres des délégations, vous êtes tous au courant  des attaques lancées par les organisations racistes internationales qui considèrent les positions adoptées  par cette Organisation sur le plan humanitaire, comme une lumière intense susceptible de dissiper les  épaisses ténèbres dont elles entourent leurs complots contre les cultures des peuples cherchant à anéantir  leur patrimoine, à étouffer leur personnalité et à empêcher que la paix et la justice règnent parmi tous,  Les promoteurs des tendances impérialistes réactionnaires et racistes ont essayé et essaient par tous les  moyens, et en premier lieu à travers la culture et la science, de dénigrer les causes de libération et  d'émancipation, et ils s'évertuent à saper les notions de liberté et d'humanisme enracinées dans la cons-  cience de l'homme contemporain. L'Unesco a prouvé, notamment lors de la dernière session de la Confé-  rence générale, qu'elle était bien la tribune du droit et le cadre de l'adoption de résolutions scientifiques  et objectives tendant à préserver les cultures des peuples et à prévenir l'étouffement de leurs aspirations  et l'annihilation de leur identité. Grâce à cette position progressiste et juste, la dix-huitième session de  la Conférence générale a démontré que cette Organisation est à juste titre la conscience vivante de l'huma-  nité, ultime refuge des opprimés et des exclus désireux de retrouver leur place sous le soleil par la pro-  motion de leur culture et leur participation à l'oeuvre de civilisation humaine dans un esprit foncièrement  positif,
(10.4) J'ai écouté hier le discours de M. le Directeur général qui, devant vous, a déclaré avec courage  et honnêteté que la mission dont l'avait chargé la Conférence à sa dix-huitième session a été entravée par  le régime sioniste en Palestine occupée, À Jérusalem, on poursuit des fouilles qui font peu de cas des ves-  tiges archéologiques, au mépris de toutes les résolutions et de toutes les mesures adoptées. Rs  de destruction culturelle, qu'il s'agisse du patrimoine ou de l'enseignement, s'intensifie et s aggrave chaque  jour, défiant la conscience vive que représente notre Organisation, La Conférence generale a pris, lors  de sa dernière session, des décisions courageuses et sages réaffirmant les droits de l'homme quant à la  préservation de sa culture, de son identité et de sa civilisation. Les délégations se sont alors inspirées de  leur sentiment humanitaire pour faire triompher le droit et condamner le mal, Cela s'est passé au Siege  de 1'Unesco il y a deux ans, malgré toutes les pressions exercées par les milieux sionistes racistes et  impérialistes. Or la présente session se tient sur le sol africain, sur ce continent qui a souffert plus que
375   tout autre de toutes les formes d'oppression impérialiste et raciste, ce qui me porte à vous dire aussi  qu'il est nécessaire que Nairobi où nous sommes réunis et avec elle l'Afrique et le monde entier deviennent  le symbole de la liberté de la culture. Mais on ne peut concevoir la liberté de culture sans que soit one  damnée à nouveau l'entité bâtie sur les ruines laissées par les violations des droits de l'homme et sur la  négation des cultures des peuples opprimés ; cette entité s'est employée et continue à s'employer à boi  turer, saper et détruire tous les centres de culture, de civilisation et de culte. Tout revirement par rap.  port aux résolutions de la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale, et notamment celles qui con-  damnent l'entité sioniste, serait considéré par les peuples militant pour la paix, le droit, la liberté et la  justice, comme un recul de leur lutte vitale contre les ennemis des peuples et des civilisations, Puisse  cette session de la Conférence générale etre la confirmation du règne du droit et non la répudiation, l'alté.  ration ou le rejet des résolutions déjà adoptées ; armons-nous du plus grand courage pour défendrela cause  des droits de l'homme. En disant cela, je sais que certains tenteront ici de nous entraîner à démolir quelque  chose de ce que nous avons déjà bâti. Des voix s'élèveront, çà et là, pour justifier la répudiation oul'atté.  nuation de certaines de ces résolutions par des artifices et des moyens savamment combinés, Il nous faut  donc faire preuve de vigilance et défendre les acquis positifs de notre Organisation, sans laisser à qui-  conque la possibilité de ramener l'Unesco en arrière,
(10.5) Monsieur le Président, les organes d'information impérialistes et racistes n'ont cessé, au cours  des deux dernières années, de rabacher le slogan selon lequel l'Unesco est atteinte, elle aussi, du malde  la "majorité automatique’ dans l'adoption de ses résolutions, Ces propos sont insultants pour les peuples  et les cultures, notamment les peuples qui se sont libérés récemment et qui luttent pour leur culture et  leur droit à la vie. Ces présomptueux n'ont pas encore compris que l'ère des monopoles et révolue, et  que celle des masses a commencé, Et cette ère des masses qui commence attribue au contenu positif et  novateur à la démocratie à l'échelon international et local, Plus de grands ni de petits, plus de forts ni  de faibles, mais seulement l'homme libre dont on écoute l'opinion et respecte la décision, dans l'intérêt  de la paix et de la justice, L'apparition dans l'enceinte de l'Unesco d'une majorité pour le triomphe du  droit, parmi ceux qui ont combattu pour le droit, est la preuve irréfutable que cette Organisation reflète  maintenant la conscience humaine qui n'admet que le droit et le règne du droit, et qui refuse d'accepter le  principe de la confiscation, par la minorité monopolisatrice, de la liberté de la majorité,
(10.6) Monsieur le Président, quand la majorité se prononce en faveur du droit, elle exprime dans l'exer-  cice de ses responsabilités et démocratiquement l'avis qui l'emporte et prend la défense des faibles qui  ne pouvaient faire entendre leur voix, réduits au silence par le colonialisme et l'impérialisme. Je repré-  sente ici un peuple qui a souffert longtemps du colonialisme, de l'oppression et du racisme et dont on a  voulu dénaturer la culture et la civilisation. Mais notre peuple a lutté par tous les moyens pour défendre  son patrimoine et préserver son identité jusqu'à la victoire du ler septembre 1969 qui lui a fait retrouver  sa personnalité et réaffirmé l'authenticité de sa civilisation islamique arabe à laquelle revient le mérite  d'avoir apporté, à travers les siècles, la lumière à l'esprit humain dans un monde en voie de progres...  La lutte du peuple arabe libyen et son triomphe par la révolution du grand Pionnier le conduisent à ré-  affirmer, dans tous les domaines et à tous les niveaux, la défense par l'homme de ses droits et de ses  libertés contre toutes les formes de domination et d'oppression, Dans mon pays, le peuple assume ses  responsabilités, sur la base de la démocratie populaire directe qui édifie les bases de l'ère des masses,  espoir des hommes libres dans la société humaine d'aujourd'hui, et ambition de ceux qui luttent pour la  liberté et la justice.
(10.7) Cette expérience de démocratie populaire directe exercée par le peuple tout entier, sans la moindre  exception, a permis aux Arabes libyens de réajuster de nombreuses idées pédagogiques que nos programmes  avaient hérité du colonialisme et de l'impérialisme intellectuel, Il en est de même pour les autres moyens  de la culture et de l'information, Pour ne citer qu'un exemple de notre expérience démocratique dans le  domaine de l'éducation et de la révolution culturelle, je voudrais rappeler que nos universités, facultés  et instituts, ainsi que l'administration de l'enseignement dans les provinces, se trouvent maintenant, et  depuis longtemps, aux mains de comités populaires élus directement par les étudiants, les enseignants et  les citoyens, Il en est résulté non seulement un changement radical des programmes à tous les niveaux,  mais aussi une amélioration qualitative et quantitative du contenu de l'enseignement dans tous les instituts,  écoles et universités. Dans ce cadre progressiste du processus éducatif, et dans le choix des matières  enseignées, toutes les conditions sont remplies pour que les étudiants puissent participer à l'orientation  et à l'enrichissement de ce processus, et acquérir les différentes connaissances humaines, Faisant écho  à cet esprit populaire éveillé, on s'est attaché à programmer et orienter l'éducation de manière à déve-  lopper l'enseignement technique aux niveaux supérieur et moyen, On a exploité les possibilités matérielles  et morales à tous les échelons afin d'assurer le succès du processus éducatif à ses divers stades, C'est  ainsi qu'ont pu être absorbés tous ceux qui sont d'âge scolaire et qu'a pu être donné un enseignement à  ceux qui vivent dans des régions et des villages éloignés, En outre, grâce aux programmes d'alphabétisa-  tion et d'éducation des adultes, on poursuit activement l'alphabétisation de ceux qui n'ont pas eu la chance  d'accéder à l'enseignement à l'époque coloniale,
(10.8) L'intérêt que la population porte à la révolution culturelle s'est également étendu aux autres domaines  relatifs à la culture : diffusion du livre, journaux, production cinématographique. Les travaux archéo-  logiques se sont poursuivis sans interruption ; on a procédé notamment à des fouilles pour retrouver les  traces de civilisations humaines locales, ce qui avait été négligé au profit de recherches sur les civilisa-  tions venues à l'époque de l'occupation,
(10.9) Par-delà sa foi en la libération culturelle, mon pays croit à la coopération scientifique, éducative  et culturelle avec tous les peuples et toutes les institutions spécialisées, et, en premier lieu, avec l'Unesco.  Nous échangeons des données d'expérience et de l'assistance technique avec de nombreux peuples avancés  ou en développement ; nous nous acquittons de nos responsabilités envers les Etats qui ont récemment  accédé à l'indépendance en les aidant à développer leurs programmes éducatifs et culturels. Ce faisant,  nous accomplissons un devoir que nous impose notre position internationale.
(10.10) Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les chefs et membres des délégations, la notion de nouvel ordre  économique qu'évoquait hier le Directeur général, et à laquelle l'Unesco a consacré une brochure bleue  pleine d'idées nouvelles, profondes et dignes d'attention, est un des problèmes que la République arabe  libyenne a eu l'honneur de soumettre à la communauté internationale lors de diverses réunions. À cetégard,  notre attitude est claire : nous souhaitons la mobilisation de toutes les énergies en vue du règlement des  difficultés économiques et sociales auxquelles se heurte le monde contemporain, compte tenu de la trans-
376      formation radicale des régimes économiques hérités du passé, A notre avis révisent l'ordre économique international et l'établissent sur des bases nou  disparition des régimes impérialistes traditionnels et de l'apparition de nombreux Etats dont les peuples  étaient auparavant soumis à la domination coloniale et qui sont désormais maîtres de leur économie et de leurs richesses, D'où la nécessité de faire établir par les économistes mondiaux des plans nouveaux qui  permettent aux peuples d'échapper aux monopoles internationaux et à l'exploitation étrangère de leurs richesses, À cet égard, nous tenons à dire ici combien nous appuyons les efforts déployés par l'Unesco  pour contribuer activement à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique.  , il est temps que les Etats  velles, en s'inspirant de la
(10.11) Monsieur le Président, je voudrais rendre hommage à la sagesse avec laquelle M. Amadou Mahtar M'Bow dirige l'Organisation en sa qualité de Directeur général. I] m'est agréable de rappeler ici qu'en  République arabe libyenne, nous lui vouons une vive admiration pour le courage et la compréhension avec  lesquels il a présidé aux activités de l'Unesco dans les circonstances difficiles qu'a traversées l'Organisa- tion. J'ai pu mesurer, hier et avant-hier, avec une profonde émotion, l'ampleur des problèmes matériels  auxquels se heurte le Directeur général, ou plutôt l'Unesco. Ces problèmes sont naturellement indépen-  dants de sa volonté ; certains sont dus à des causes objectives, mais la plupart sont l'effet d'une sorte de  volonté préméditée de faire avorter les efforts de l'Organisation. Nous savons - et le Directeur général  l'a rappelé - que certains Etats ont refusé de verser leurs contributions à l'Organisation, J'estime que  l'Unesco ne devrait pas subir ce genre de pression financière, car c'est là que réside précisément ce  qu'on appelle la politisation de l'Unesco, Exercer, comme le font actuellement certains Etats membres  des pressions matérielles sur l'Organisation pour l'inciter à pratiquer une politique déterminée, ou pour  tenter de la contraindre à revenir sur des décisions déjà adoptées conformément à une volonté internationale  librement exprimée, est un acte déshonorant qui mérite notre réprobation unanime. Si ceux qui exercent  des pressions financières persistent dans cette politique, nous devrons les tenir pour responsables de  l'affaiblissement de l'Organisation et considérer qu'ils entravent injustement son activité. La position  objective prise par le Directeur général face à ces tentatives est digne d'estime, d'autant plus que les  pressions exercées sur l'Unesco ont pris des formes diverses visant astucieusement à leurrer tout res-  ponsable de l'Organisation et, sous prétexte de préserver l'existence de celle-ci, à la vider de son contenu  humain pour en faire une structure sans vie.
(10.12) Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les chefs et membres des délégations, les problèmes à évoquer  ici sont innombrables, Mais, quelle que soit l'importance de ces problèmes, elle s'estompe devant celle de  l'Organisation à laquelle nous avons l'honneur d'appartenir. Si nous ne lui portons pas l'intérêt nécessaire,  nous risquons fort de nous voir un jour acculés à un vide qui nous empêchera d'évoquer ces problèmes.  L'Unesco doit "être", mais, pour que son existence se poursuive dans l'indépendance totale par-delà toutes  les difficultés, il lui faudra dire "non" aux pressions matérielles et politiques et aux atermoiements arti-  ficiels. Il faut que, par la voix de ses membres qui aiment la justice, le droit et la liberté, l'Organisation  exprime sa volonté avec courage afin qu'elle puisse s'élever à la hauteur des idéaux humains d'éducation,  de science et de savoir, Si la présente session de la Conférence générale agit ainsi et assume ses respon-  sabilités, elle atteindra, par cet essor vigoureux, les cimes du droit qui se tiennent au-dessus de l'asser-  vissement et du mal, tel le Kilimandjaro qui se dresse fièrement près d'ici au-dessus des mousses, les-  quelles ont beau verdir et s'étendre, mais n'en restent pas moins toujours fixées au sol, Merci, Monsieur  le Président,
11. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to express my thanks to the head of the delegation of the Libyan  Arab Republic. Thank you. Next, I call on H. E. Mr. Thogan Hindawi, Minister of Education,  head of the delegation of Jordan, to address us.  EP OA FW] ed BP RE ST 5655 ddl NON  LS lie Bld (Sls Y 5 0d 05 ply (El GT Fa GI BOL Gp coil Gee  y ls Busan) asl vel Ghd asus à plis, ACHETER URL ES (es OF « ac sel ol  Bails eg die ae ill gp Vale Bead) Full Life Bod), épi 0dr (ool oF pee D + a  — BERS) Jl 551 | Je cles ol éd 53, 3.59 a! . Baga Le mes la ls 10 es  Lda ue Jens € Ledepys gill Gland] jel Ge god Abel Lag 3102)  bas 2 I OC Bo [nen | sid) *Läcl, "LS, Bola lacie bo 6 ga dl Sie YY  dl oT Slo ane diay Le «Bula Ah all LUI J Land) gn pts por Sey Slo pital Vie JLel  SAN LI plu) a da 5 SL den) eT sly pm BJ bac) Sand ill 5 Laser Le  coll 55 Le Lied  sb olay clad) ad) JR 5 AI esd) AIT oat « AJ srl Lao 5 0/p 19 éd s NY
377   à ll ge dés LIL blobs JS gd ety Basil) abs Bho à a Lo ne gi  saad « 05 pals 13e SE pe péeel ol 6 pladl pad! Boku Le de 8h EN LEVELS  ell all aslo asall Soa as à, Sel « Buti boy Oe de pid La ss Gly)  aad LJ) à$s IL dis à 3a, Lagasig loss «Slats
5 Wl patina he hl] 513 Sus! 2523 css ste FE Ts oh ob 7525 La pladl pad Lisl
53 Sem Lal BBY Guay pa gel lle 1. gid Laid oS oe er el  ibd! afSLe, se ee ball deadly ce ¢ J, lsall Di te al, gg di ua ‘ aa Lol les  > WY Boldly elu) Ls bs ue ls te L Von Jos | PN PU AO J EE a ill ÿ  SL ) de tio 5e As lad) sal) sem] al] ible 4 Le Ka a Las lal line a JS sal fall  (andl ola II pl 5e  Ji Jaïdtls Jun) of dnd Re IE ET ce RR PEE Jolie 5h  colle dyes oe y do a Ÿ « cel gla) od dss all, dy priendly latin VI any 555 (7 Las VI Go  a be are Apaugill Bl oad) Lidl 055 Js ¥ Ile à pl Bo 0!  ola Olas dla of pS A LI Sood! dls + JEAN ps Bus ge «Fpl! Das 3  sy dl call S11 se to rill (Ua) “liza oboe Juoadly € Jumadl ple pW! pd!  aol rail la one Van 06 GT  a.
378      Opi «hs ds © al ialey ps Jie JL DUR Lele bail aa IRS of smell YY ST)  ty blog Jai o loge is olny pl 5e 3300 alia L os ue ses ad pL  al pb dle Lil Sit. pI a ad Gb EI LI Us plore  gra ule 5? dry sJl du; wall nll Jel | ht Ed alle et our ball aati) Les  lad lp aad! eR eS | [SOM RSA | Jew PA dept AL fads! Le 41 ll Le Vas ps à ail  IS pd doling Je pe Ad WSS lo Dis Call y ble be, Coll 55 antsy ed]  ob Ble a, a) val 231 p V9 6)lé>3k EE PUA a, dsl pee as, à 41, Rasage day tog Doss  à AE 0 le led peu is, à AL fol Ge ue 08 Ob lee LS Clow Lab L Lo Ke pind Gu id)
3 IA 55 Ar) L dus used) lie pd et à, fabs pled! 5 al nd co LS La, ls ye  clots Lesh «edn Let shold) Let Sabot dad) (ol, ¥1 5 el Gell ges plis yy) p) à  «aid L 13 469 d'asslipe Vel, 15 6 Jill soll ell 5 Lulu sl ells ks ots LE 5  ess Je ; dp JE: polis Ge ALBI) odin ages Lyme a ad ali] DB 51 des }¥0Y  Ig pls iS alas list acces) La «pls Le old St GP 095,55 La cs, dsl  à a ds os allied ECE PI PS Dl MR Léa se 5151  ISIN C5 Le pe HI lin 5 55, ng LS LL (Si) toy of (Stabs, of 255 Jl lad) (Sasso  dl logy Las (Sabie uns BLS pay calls pooled] andl acd) L I Led (IEP SER Pe) P| ÿ  ls oe dl goad) lie Lb, ol pe Slug ais 5 AIT Ley old! ba Yl ee Glu Ja : oh  pure] La polls oP Oden! a al UV EI US 5) ds © as ll) aN Ly ug Lys doll le ais  pall cr BIT pie SL ages gi ol oS GS ed Jl 5 LL loll  ee ROUES >) 15d, LE andl 25 Gon lanl Ge 1309 ma7 « Ai sl], 09 Pde = ‘ bus  sISL JC pre! Jub Joe pie and labs plus pt Ua IS pres SLT Slog pbs SUR  culs YL Lawl Claws YL cn Jl Fd doled 0950, bal; Bly alsin) polis 51 ; SIL Lod
(7) + apm *Lasl Jy e ls, oS am das load] Lis Sages oe Lod (S13 Ee  i Cyt. ey Doge de ladle basil) os dy 0 Lad) ag bizidl eo Log JL dase) duel 5 pale pad 5  Gy Ed) 55 LS was « Las) Jy alle ls, oo pens loos ge Lis jar Lg Geenli Ys PE  lad pws Jess Loans add a baal ol (8) + ELA pay de alas! AE BESSY  vas dol, wl, chil Josdl Le chs le gd L131 — asda G1 (0) als à aswell  àBBUl asl tale legal le oS Le « GATE te A ee  VV 5355 JU ial ell pre Jeol de pall y Ek |, ge pees ol  begin] 35080 50 hein ee — Ayrullkss Led Led aussi Jeo lil dy bad! 55 * Las YI Jy a em Le
7   obi 8 pais Bad 1 Gps Jésus pal sin Je DB JI ss FSC LAN 51 NN  eh coll ui ib dues oye Less Gye bb JE Joo las 05 Le of sll Gro p 453 pall psp)  sl gles ads vaso lie bya SSL. oe pled) Eu LJ spl Lai ou 5 Al seul ls €/p sl  Jin Loslus Ji sd) sadly g/p Hé 51» Sail lun God Jess 55 Les pla ue  odo Jin pub Jlessy mews Joy - Led 5$ 09 Boat UE (59 9 plead 5831 5575 1 50m, Ve éd 5  dal p a 051 ge géldl 505 Lu po SE 0) - 0 /p él SLA oS IC Yb gm (aly)  pleat Sh soll dsl 53400 Boe ASS». L855 /p Hite! JS opal EU 5  J)o  SUE EV UU I A | al lls lip pré Spa are 5 Lun ae coll sae yp  Ja] pind) pon Had) sual pr (oy WI iad) 1 lo pe 0pm eed) él «RAS 3 ag)  erilly Godly Ju alé 555 iy Lol Land fll Gs Ld Y1 Seid 32 oie a 3 5g iV pl  Joli «isla Gadd id AI bile JU Lobel Wl Lie dhs «Saad abi LL BL  ed) 05 Jobs Js Ÿ ll aE SY ga aJl Jad doled deg delat 00 Jews) sag sy)  cll Gex Gl VS 5 Lo lig Lely ol ob «5 lena Yl aol
(12.1) M. HINDAWI (Jordanie). - (Traduit de l'arabe. )  Monsieur le Président, il m'est agréable, avant tout, de vous féliciter, au nom de la délégation de  mon pays, pour votre élection à la présidence de cette session de la Conférence générale, et d'exprimer  ma confiance totale en votre compétence et votre sagesse pour la conduite des travaux de cette session et  la réalisation des objectifs souhaités. Je tiens à saluer, à cette occasion, l'ex-présidente de la Conférence  générale, Mme Magda Jobort, dont l'éminentepersonnalité a permis le succès de la précédente session et  de l'ouverture de la présente session. La réussite de la dix-neuvième session, qui se tient sur le sol du  grand continent africain, est un objectif cher à la délégation de mon pays, qui ne manquera pas d'oeuvrer  à sa réalisation.
(12.2) Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs les chefs et membres des délégations, Monsieur le  Directeur général, l'ordre du jour de cette session comprend de nombreux problèmes internationaux essen-  tiels, et il me serait impossible de les aborder tous dans les limites de temps qui nous sont imparties et  auxquelles nous devons nous restreindre, pour en permettre la discussion ici même et dans les commissions,
(12.3) Le document 19 C/5 et ses addenda témoignent de l'effort considérable et inestimable que le  Directeur général a déployé pour les présenter sous cette forme. Cette tâche est digne d'éloge, surtout  compte tenu des circonstances nouvelles qui en ont accompagné la préparation. Il a donc fallu : première-  ment, assurer l'harmonisation constante entre les projets de l'exercice 1977-1978 et le projet de plan à  moyen terme ; deuxièmement, tenir compte des fortes fluctuations monétaires ; troisièmement, prendre  en considération les déclarations et initiatives des Nations Unies visant à instaurer un nouvel ordre écono-  mique mondial, La tâche était indubitablement ardue ; mais elle a finalement abouti à des résultats positifs  et prometteurs, Le Directeur général a fait preuve de sagesse en définissant le cadre des prévisions budgé-  taires proposées pour le prochain exercice, Le taux d'accroissement, qui correspond à un développement  réel du programme, est un taux très modeste imposé par les fluctuations financières que connaît le monde,  A la lumière de ce qui précède, la délégation de mon pays se déclare, d'une manière générale, satisfaite  du document 19 C/5 et de ses addenda relatifs au projet de budget. Elle voudrait cependant formuler, atitre  d'exemple, quelques observations limitées,
(12.4) Auparavant, je me dois d'évoquer l'excellente tâche accomplie par le directeur général, M, Amadou  Mahtar M'Bow, depuis sa nomination à la tête de l'Organisation, malgré les circonstances financières  difficiles que plusieurs Etats membres ont contribué systématiquement à créer pour entraver les efforts  qu'il déployait afin d'exécuter le programme adopté par la Conférence générale à sa dix-huitième session,  On aurait pu faire l'économie de cette grave situation, volontairement échafaudée, afin que le Directeur  général puisse consacrer toute son attention aux obligations essentielles de sa haute charge internationale,  en vue de l'exécution du programme, Je suis heureux, Monsieur le Directeur général, de vous saluer, de  cette tribune, au nom de la Jordanie, pour la manière excellente dont vous vous êtes acquitté de vos obli-  gations essentielles ; et je vous salue, une deuxième fois, pour avoir relevé les défis supplémentaires qui  vous ont été lancés et que vous avez su dépasser avec une fermeté doublée d'une grande sagesse,
(12.5) Nous réservons lé meilleur accueil au projet relatif à le poursuite de l'étude sur la culture arabe  et nous souhaitons que l'Unesco fasse preuve du plus grand soin dans le choix des penseurs et des savants,  et dans la définition des buts et des moyens ; car cette étude concerne également la vie culturelle d'un  grand nombre de pays non arabes, en raison de liens dir ts ou indirects existant entre leurs cultures et  la culture arabe. Nous souhaitons aussi que se maintiennent et se renforcent la consultation et la coopé-  ration, dans ce domaine, avec l'Organisation arabe pour l'éducation, la culture et la science (ALECSO).  A ce propos, je voudrais mentionner la première Conférence des ministres arabes de la culture, qui doit  se tenir en Jordanie, à la fin de cette année, sous les auspices de l'Unesco, et qui préludera à l'élabora-  tion de politiques culturelles arabes, La Conférence culturelle qu'il est proposé, dans le document 19 C/5,  d'organiser en 1979 sous les auspices de l'Unesco constituera un pas important et nécessaire vers le ren-  forcement et la détermination des tendances de la culture arabe, ce que nous souhaitons et ce à quoi nous  nous employons,
(12.6) La présence de 1'Unesco dans les différentes régions du monde, avec ses projets, ses idéaux et  ses valeurs, est reflétée par les commissions nationales constituées dans les Etats membres, Nous croyons  qu'un grand nombre de ces commissions nationales ont besoin d'appui et de renforcement. En outre, les  tâches importantes et de plus en plus nombreuses qu'assume l'Unesco appellent une stimulation nouvelle  des commissions nationales ; il convient, en effet, de leur insuffler un esprit nouveau afin qu'elles soient  à la hauteur des défis complexes de ce siècle, Il serait souhaitable que dans les programmes à venir fat  prévue une Conférence des présidents des commissions nationales qui serait chargée essentiellement  d'examiner le rôle de ces commissions dans la réalisation des objectifs de l'Unesco définis par son Acte  constitutif, ainsi que les actions à entreprendre, en conséquence, sur le plan national et régional. Une
380      i = 1 i 1 Pt être l'occasion d'élaborer le pacte des commissions nationales prévu dans le
(12.7) Les crédits affectés au Programme de participation demeurent encore modestes. Nous avons le  sentiment que ce chapitre a besoin d'être développé d'une manière continue et de recevoir un plus PP  pourcentage de crédits. Si l'on prend en considération le nombre des Etats qui bénéficient de A = ramme on constate aussitôt que les crédits dont il dispose sont insuffisants. Je n'exagérerai pas en La ’  l'effort et le temps consacrés par chaque Etat à la correspondance et à la négociation avec le Secrétariat  pour aboutir à de petits projets, ainsi que les préoccupations du Secrétariat lui-même dans ce domaine  ne sont pas en rapport avec le résultat final, Ces crédits modestes tendent presque à se volatiliser lors  de leur répartition entre les Etats membres et entre les projets à réaliser dans les différents domaines :  autrement dit, ils se réduisent à des fonctions incompatibles avec la position qu'occupe une organisation)  internationale comme l'Unesco, Le Programme de participation a ses propres vertus ; on ne peut envisager  de le supprimer ; mais il est indispensable d'augmenter raisonnablement et continuellement les crédits  qui lui sont affectés.
(12.8) Mesdames, Messieurs, après ces brèves observations sur le document 19 C/5, j'aborde le docu-  ment 19 C/4. Je relève l'excellente Introduction du Directeur général au Projet de plan à moyen terme ;  elle reflète l'image de notre monde humain avec tout ce qu'il renferme d'ambitions et d'idéaux, d'une part,  et ce qu'il recèle d'injustice, de souffrance, d'oppression sous toutes leurs formes et dans toutes leurs  dimensions, d'autre part. Le problème de la dignité de l'homme est le problème moral de ce siècle Sail  devient de plus en plus aigü, dans un monde qui rétrécit en dépit de son étendue, par suite des actes d'op-  pression, de contrainte, de racisme et de discrimination, Dans certaines de ses régions, le monde a  presque réalisé des miracles dans le domaine scientifique, tandis que s'accroissent les souffrances dans  de larges secteurs de la société humaine, L'image qu'en a donnée ici le Directeur général équivaut, a mon  avis, à un appel humanitaire, que traduit l'existence de l'Unesco elle-même, pour que la communauté  internationale adopte un nouvel ordre économique mondial à dimensions humaines, sociales et morales,  Le Directeur général a été très bien inspiré en donnant à ce document, sous forme de brochure, une large  distribution,
(12.9) Cette étude préliminaire de la notion de nouvel ordre économique a une réelle valeur, car elle fait  ressortir l'urgente nécessité d'un tel ordre, appelé à servir la communauté internationale. Mais la question  essentielle qui se pose est de savoir s'il est possible d'instaurer un tel ordre dans une large conception  morale et humaine ? Nous pensons que l'étape actuelle est une étape d'information et d'idées sur ce que  doit être un tel ordre, Mais l'application pourrait être, sans doute, extrêmement difficile; sinon impos-  sible, quoique l'on admette son urgente nécessité pour la communauté internationale, Beaucoup de maux  qui troublent encore le monde doivent être éliminés ; et cette élimination apparaît comme une condition  essentielle avant que soit entreprise l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique, et pour qu'un tel ordre,  dont on souhaite actuellement l'avènement, puisse être viable, Les maux signalés au deuxième paragraphe  du document, tels que la tension résultant de l'agressivité et des tendances expansionnistes, les actes de  violence, d'oppression et de discrimination, les dépenses d'armement, sont des maux qui existent réelle-  ment, et dont souffrent des centaines de millions d'êtres humains. Ces maux secrètent la haine, l'indigna-  tion et la méfiance, alors que c'est sur la confiance mutuelle que doit s'ériger toute coopération inter-  nationale fructueuse, comme l'ordre proposé, Nous sommes sincèrement favorables à l'instauration d'un  nouveau régime économique à dimensions humaines, car la Jordanie, qui est un petit pays aux ressources  limitées, croit en la dimension internationale de ses problèmes nationaux de développement, sa prospérité  étant liée à celle du monde, Je dis cela, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, car, dans la  région du monde où nous vivons, nous souffrons directement des maux énumérés au paragraphe 2 del'Intro-  duction aux "Réflexions sur le nouvel ordre économique international,"
(12.10) C'est pourquoi nous avons une foi inébranlable dans le rôle positif de l'Unesco pour l'instauration  d'une paix fondée sur la justice et propre à renforcer les droits de l'homme face à l'impérialisme, au  racisme et au sionisme ; car cette foi se fonde sur l'expérience et la souffrance, La sauvegarde de la paix  dans ce monde où dominent encore les intentions agressives et expansionnistes, et où s'exercent la discri-  mination raciale, le fanatisme religieux et la supériorité de race, est un objectif difficile à atteindre, La  paix véritable, celle qui peut et doit être sauvegardée, c'est la paix fondée sur la justice - et justice signi-  fie élimination des inégalités et des maux au niveau des individus, des peuples et des Etats ; enfin, c'est  la paix à l'ombre du respect des droits et de la dignité de l'homme, partout où il se trouve,
(12.11) Il est un membre de cette communauté internationale, Messieurs, qui ne cesse d'occuper par la  force et la terreur les territoires d'Etats arabes et se comporte, à l'égard de la communauté internationale  et de ses lois, comme si les territoires et les populations qu'il a occupés par la force étaient devenus son  bien légitime, dont il peut disposer à son gré. Selon quelle loi Israël s'empare-t-il des terres en zone  arabe occupée, démolit-il les habitations et expulse-t-il leurs propriétaires arabes pour y installer des  colonies d'immigrés juifs ? Selon quelle loi Israël supprime-t-il les programmes scolaires arabes dans  les écoles de Jérusalem et impose-t-il à leur place les programmes israéliens ? Selon quelle loi Israël  remplace-t-il les manuels dans les écoles arabes de Jérusalem occupées, travestit-il l'histoire et la  culture nationale des citoyens arabes, et leur impose-t-il une culture étrangère, voire ennemie, par la  parole, l'action et les pratiques de chaque jour ? Selon quelle loi Israël modifie-t-il le caractère culturel  de Jérusalem et l'empreinte des civilisations en détruisant des témoignages historiques essentiels pour  ÿ substituer des gratte-ciel où logent des citoyens venus de l'étranger ? Selon quelle loi les autorités  israéliennes s'en prennent-elles aux citoyens arabes dans l'exercice de leur culte, dont elles suppriment  certains lieux et font envahir les autres par leurs troupes ? Selon quelle loi un membre de votre Organisa-  tion se rebelle-t-il contre une résolution que vous avez adoptée, lors de la précédente session de la Con-  férence générale, au sujet de Jérusalem, ce qui a empêché l'Organisation d'atteindre les objectifs visés  par la résolution, ainsi que l'a expliqué le Directeur général dans son exposé ? Selon quelle loi ce membre  refuse-t-il de donner suite à la recommandation formulée dans le document 19 C/73 contre le travestisse-  ment de l'éducation et de la culture dans les territoires arabes occupés ? Messieurs, c'est la loi de la  jungle, avec sa cohorte de crimes et de maux, que fait régner ce membre occupant et rebelle aux résolu-  tions des Nations Unies et à celles de l'Unesco,  t aux éléments essentiels de cette affaire.  à ce que vous avez décidé lors de la précé-  s de l'Organisation des
(12,12) Permettez-moi de poser trois questions qui touchen  Première question : Israël a-t-il obtempéré à votre désir, ;  dente session de la Conférence générale en particulier, et aux recommandation
1 2 Si la réponse est négative, Messieurs, quelles sont alors les raisons juridiques  un changement de la position que vous avez adoptée lors de votre pré-  cédente session à l'égard d'un membre de l'Organisation qui ne respecte pas votre désir ni votre volonté ?  La majorité peut-elle dénoncer cette position de la Conférence générale pour la seule raison que le délin-  quant a exercé les pressions que le Directeur général a signalées dans son exposé, et qui sont incompa-  tibles avec le texte et l'esprit de l'Acte constitutif de l'Organisation ? Deuxième question : Allons-nous  nous laisser influencer par la parodie politique à laquelle se livrent les moyens d'information assujettis  à ce membre récalcitrant, qui qualifie la volonté de nos peuples et de nos Etats de majorité automatique" 9  Cette information a-t-elle jamais eu d'autre but que d'affaiblir la cohésion de nos peuples épris de justice  et de paix ? Troisième question : Comment pourrions-nous élever les défenses de la paix dans l'esprit  des Palestiniens arabes, fils de la Palestine, alors qu'ils sont chassés de leur pays, que leur territoire  est occupé et qu'ils sont empêchés d'exercer leur droit d'autodétermination ? Pourquoi les enfants pales.  tiniens ne pourraient-ils pas vivre tranquillement et paisiblement dans leur patrie et dans les demeures  de leurs pères et de leurs ancêtres, au même titre que les autres enfants du monde ? Messieurs, les  éléments du problème sont clairs : occupation par la force jrefus d'envisager le retrait et persistance de  l'implantation ; changement flagrant des particularités religieuses, culturelles, éducatives et de civilisa-  tion ; insoumission manifeste aux résolutions de cette Organisation et des autres organisations internatio-  nales ; transgression des actes constitutifs de ces organisations essentiellement fondées sur les principes  de justice, de paix et de respect des droits et des biens d'autrui. Ces principes ne sauraient être sacrifiés  pour de petites tactiques, ou des accords qui ne mettent pas fin à la tyrannie dont souffre l'opprimé ou qui  n'empêchent pas l'agresseur de commettre l'injustice ; ces principes ne peuvent, avant et après tout,  assurer le maintien et la survie de notre Organisation que si le membre dont il s'agit respecte 1'Acte cons-  titutif de l'Organisation et obtempère à la volonté de ceux qui en font partie. Que nous demande-t-on après  les actes que commet ce membre rebelle ? Veut-on que nous l'accueillions comme partenaire dans nos  activités qui ne visent qu'à la justice et la paix, avant qu'il ait renoncé à ses maux et à ses agressions ?  Comment peut-on réunir les malfaiteurs et leurs victimes dans une même communauté internationale en  vue de l'instauration d'un nouveau régime économique mondial, avant que ne disparaissent les méfaits et  ne soient éliminées les iniquités ? Nonobstant tout cela, nous croyons en Dieu, en l'homme et dans un  avenir meilleur pour l'humanité.
(12.13) Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, j'en viens maintenant à quelques observations  concernant les liens entre les deux documents 19 C/5 et 19 C/4. Le Directeur général appelle l'attention  de la Conférence générale, dans les deux paragraphes 132 et 133 de l'Introduction du 19 C/4, sur la pro-  position visant à renouveler, à l'avenir, la méthode de présentation du document 19 C/5 pour qu'il soit  conforme aux objectifs. Nous approuvons le Directeur général, car, tant de circonstances et de change-  ments ont marqué la forme de l'Organisation elle-même et de la méthode de préparation du document19 C/5,  que les amendements intervenus à la Conférence générale concernant le projet de programme et de budget  sont minimes par rapport au but souhaité. Parmi ces facteurs, je signale ce qui suit, Premièrement, au  cours des trente années de son existence, le Secrétariat de l'Unesco a acquis une grande expérience et une  grande maftrise dans la préparation du document, De même, l'expérience accumulée par le Secrétariat  dans ce domaine lui permet de connaître dans une large mesure et de distinguer les désiderata des Etats,  Deuxièmement, le Directeur général doit s'en tenir, pour la préparation du document, aux recommandations  successives adoptés à cet égard par la Conférence générale. Troisièmement, les conférences internationales  et régionales interprètent, à travers les recommandations qu'elles adoptent, les voeux des Etats membres,  qui sont centralisés au Secrétariat pour être pris en considération dans la préparation du projet de pro-  gramme. Quatrièmement, la continuité et la nature du programme font que le pourcentage de projets nou-  veaux est restreint, Cinquièmement, le Conseil exécutif - si la proposition de porter à 45 le nombre de  ses membres, présentée par la Birmanie et amendée par le Rwanda, est approuvée - groupera approxima-  tivement le tiers des Etats du monde, ce qui permettra aux représentants des groupes géographiques et  culturels d'exprimer l'opinion de la majorité des Etats quand ils examineront avec le Directeur général les  détails du projet de programme proposé pour chaque exercice ; car la participation, à la Conférence géné-  rale, des Etats membres à l'élaboration des détails ou à leur amendement est devenu - c'est un fait  d'expérience - plutôt une routine qu'une participation effective, ainsi que nous l'avons dit précédement. Il  s'ensuit que la Conférence générale pourrait engager à l'avenir, autour du document C/5, le débat de poli-  tique générale, adopter le projet de budget en fixant le plafond budgétaire, approuver les projets de re-  commandations et de conventions internationales et traiter des problèmes d'ordre général, Puis la Confé-  rence générale passerait à l'examen approfondi du plan à moyen terme, en vue de modifier éventuellement,  à la lumière des changements intervenus, la partie adoptée à la session précédente, Elle passeraitensuite  à l'examen des propositions formulées dans le plan à moyen terme pour le nouvel exercice,  Nations Unies en généra 2  et morales qui pourraient justifier
(12.14) En conséquence, ne peut-on à l'avenir charger le Conseil exécutif d'arrêter les détails du projet de  programme et de budget pour le prochain exercice (c'est-à-dire le document C/5) en collaboration avec  le Directeur général et suivant les grandes lignes définies dans le document C/4, tout en continuant à tenir  compte des facteurs et éléments intervenus lors de la préparation dudit document ? Dans le même temps,  on renforcerait le rôle des Bureaux régionaux dans l'élaboration des éléments du document C/5 à caractère  régional. Le document C/4 ne saurait, à aucun moment, être un document rigide ou nouveau ; ce devrait  être un document en constant renouvellement.
(12,15) Les mobiles qui m'ont amené à envisager de telles perspectives se résument comme suit :le souci  d'abréger la durée des sessions de la Conférence générale et d'économiser le temps consacré à examiner  des détails dont l'amendement reste mineur et marginal ; la parution du document C/4 sous la forme qui  est entre nos mains, avec l'exposé des problèmes et des difficultés d'ordre international qui se posent au  monde et qui appellent un effort collectif pour être surmontés en vue de la réalisation des objectifs de  l'Unesco. Etant donné l'effort que sa préparation exige et exigera à l'avenir, le document C/4 ne doit pas  être approuvé par la Conférence générale sans un examen approfondi et minutieux, Le temps dont dispose  la Conférence générale lui permet-il d'effectuer un tel examen, alors qu'il suffit à peine pour examiner le  document C/5 ? Mon doute à ce sujet se fonde sur l'expérience passée : vu la charge de travail qu'impose  à la Conférence générale l'examen du seul document C/5, que serait-ce si elle devait s'occuper d'un autre  document qui, à mon sens, mérite le plus grand intérêt ?
(12.16) Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, je tiens enfin à souligner ce qu'a dit hier, du haut  de cette tribune internationale, S. Exc. M, Djoudi, secrétaire général adjoint de l'Organisation de l'Unité  africaine, au sujet de la cohésion organique des deux mondes arabe et africain, cohésion qui est une source  abondante de bien pour l'humanité, un enrichissement pour ses civilisations et un ferme soutien pour cette  Organisation de justice, de droit, de libération et d'égalité qu'est l'Unesco, Cette alliance restera toujours
382      la base de nos positions internationales franches et coura  qui ont adhéré à cette Organisation, et nous saluons la br  nuent de lutter contre la discrimination raciale et 1!  nous, Merci de votre attention,  geuses, Nous félicitons donc les Etats africains  : avoure des peuples militants d'Afrique qui conti-  impérialisme et que nous espérons voir bientôt parmi  (Mr. Al-Cherif, Libyan Arab Republic, took the chair.)  : ond SI MF  ç € = q i sc Ee  sl ol Gru - GS lo oo YY ads dp Bull ue op lain) y by 5 SLI ale sh  » ES Gly Bail Ip ind € Glad) 0d puts Bil Ls Came dem SY las oY)
(13.) Le PRESIDENT. - (Traduit de l'arabe, )  Je remercie S. Exc, M, Thogan Hindawi, ministre de l'éducation et chef de la délégation de la  Jordanie, J'ai le plaisir d'appeler a la tribune S, Exc. Mohammed Mahjoub, ministre de 1'éducation et  chef de la délégation de 1'Irak,  ; ; : (45h el a pend] ) Comet deme dl NON  Lil e el apadl Lil 6 pla al GT 6 5 dde los, dead! 6 Elus) all  a Bolallin all, pistol col Gan « SR; RS LE REE Vody poly owl doll  dy lo de gas (I ASIN laud) Savin WI agin) ples L308 85 «By al 0d Lut, (Sli le  Yo LISA Su Gl pad) al aad I ily ad Lans Y pall esi 51 a Lsl vol  àdsldalMl ode 55 gif Toe JEU VS D 5 AN lla) sal, 32d) has) Gus 5 Ji de oe  Ls yest au le J «BLS en ee cl dl 4 CP SECT L PA] LS. Li, 31 IL oe so  BILAN Il Asa angst Gb Jf anus glo): Ged Il sae + Lens Lashes le ARS AS NI, 150  did Lady Wl aebul ode pase gl ces Ula andl Gal 8 hey Gal ol Lslash ud) "Ls,  dsl le 3b 6, She LIL pod «5,51 dgésSl ado pe € Lay 4 « peti Buy uadl wsdl ode ol 5  bball oil aie dy ALAIN id S T Se dy 5 el, ret a RR SH  FR et | Fg FC Lege BLE Ee RR RE Ee EEE DER  irs PRR EA Be Se Bl) LL [ESE pr lie SRE BR CLE eT  PE SY FRC U3 2 pe PCN | BO Les 0] SL FUR POR ne 5 lose [PR | REORCT |  remit PR OR SRR SOL CET I a e la Ee LB EIR  «bug asl  SES TS ai ARISE Se Ba RIED le Boas VV TLV ete EI ES  Le JMS com, od) ads wl Lun las, Plas) lo ble ood phe Vas Ba 945 € Baule VV Sy  Ru LIT tail Sp dal ts l'école da eo Le LS pre IE Le eS Lai LM Leo FSI  pH ue pS 55 Plaza V5 (lll ET Laos ly dura pad 5 Ds Ge Gh Vel Lea 5  badly Les oly Lea” Jo Vie Alas né il pla 5 ddl ol IL La IL Da free JL  ls di Yo lez Yl Ge pmeally SLi Yl alll Gps ge ste € dde 5h 5 paies SL 5 Ben LU
55 Lobe Leal Lobe ool) ge AJ aa, Ses Bonaldo ial 0 dod Suis I AB dl  Hess pu  l ge Crads La PN Sas 38 3 ds PCT] dy Ne PE ROE del Mél done 5  . ass, bel 259  A, ll 01 IY mrp Wing By Bed Jig Be VB 1 5 Subd) Vi Val 1 ui ded, Lot  soy La + alo aby) Lo dis, 3 add) se, ET Less ALAIN Ligondy ba S AB 054)  v— Lileudil also aad! Jydl ode Loney BV) 3, ds daub) 3p I (5 La Jub lst all ol  plats Gab  das SAN II pad) Ghd) pe Be oo Al 85 aad égal ul yd Durs Ny  Ei i andl isl iat Lil i tl day JU 55 5e Lily Lula ball 0 B)  in, bly LAU) lil od 51 3 FI Lizzy LT oF pl Bop ii LS + Léiligats upd! bint  Gi I bbl lad) oT mall asl LS. ply Jud! Jb gb Ling cyril pod del on opin  Spend) opal] 5 aac biadV abl um] Biome SAVE SY Coaidly — Lob Lue Lip (pln) pond — ads  lial 5 rails JIT ae hall NT JL palin ail Ja GT TL alli bmi Us  Ja tol  &sgpally AJL 0 Yl las u dle Dols os) a Ld pain « syais)l seal! 5 LS Iga  dye 5 pally RAI pnd] JU pe ey oli me lin ob Goo 0e d LJ JL  SL toni bye 58 35 LT JE Lisl cpm a LI JULY Las ce 5 Al age  dns LAS lyn ci NF 3 gb JB YI 0d Gel 9 ipl! OWS) LB gl del  Yl repli GLS OF ILI Less Jo Lens ds Jos lg at oT elidel  Vio nd lic 153
383   ssl L151 2415 JG Lane Yl AJ YI Lou lus Bliss Ds 55 seas Lines 059 Li 31 pin petal  lt eh Gb pnd 5, Y le I py all lig dtradl pk lol sy Ls  ol js > onal sluleal edged pion Bes) pli loli ol 3 bal dun SNS > gs  S| PA FSAI OT | Up SONS age La Sally a Lady. Jens ob dé Ls DUl Lalas YN 0 dn ii  € © sadly Sue, (BIL JET es ge gel  Doel i pH doper ols ay Sal pladl andl wend! (5 tot bes 1500) ollie es Le  ols o /p) 4 Bush ete cr RE pt cr Outed]  €/p)A base Js . JE, gobJl Jad) 13 Lavlasd eddy all 59 y-J1 I Geis ge ol  IE lo A ES Lila + à wl ele lu] JNS Sas SI b Las) du La WG LAN IAE,  Le dy Jysdly GI 5e SIT dladl ALI Es Ie russ le des Ep y09 Las NI Golo ke Ss  a ins bid ets LS. Aduugy By gL YI lo das m AL LA Geil) 5505 sla YI Wo)  Lp dS Gi paints os LIES OL 5e SON IAS
33a Linds dl Ban J) 5 9 Lad) el le SP AE La) ppg ol 5 Sead! (BLS cpanilaol  Cay Daz Vly pusbiadl polis Ge Lay yo By pi Lui] Geen] I ily ub 0 Spe, lal all LUI  à_ ola Yl Les loo pan (9 LS ies alo Lad) aad Lis Yl 13e LJle 1, uss jaa Sl NS « cysélle by  pods dus ho olan] pl pla dll edn blo mr ole 45 « RSI, Go nlly Gel SU due Li  Ry de Lind ot tis Ald) y pa Lad alll Cdl 0 Us oe pois 850 SIL Il to le Jb  pan db sy Load) Ls LS lod Lisi ols  ca ST Sled) pall eondlge 5b iad appel 5 3801 dus 6 1 rill re
4e] GT ETAT ly oad pipe VIS (asl) Linge A re er dre pau AE  Lis dass i oss lad Las by al, bls, Yl Goliad) all IC RECOM El] ya)  ve Sls shall edfadly lola YI J JE lise pus 51, hdl Jub) go tig ly ond lis SY low >  oF oladl plat TIL 3 Lan YY Lal, eg gy te oi ping 51 hilly Jol
1 yntdl Gia Gb aly as ps) Bis Le Je 1)
384      se) ius plo dlp aot ous Cr = ese MN seit pet ol bos ol sel contd) sde VU) -  pl à 19409 Bey | La 1 Cul éel, à plo ful Gi sY1 Wb el, 9 gel,  Ll. Bom od SEs Led pond lo (UNE LV aballà, Gil ess 5 Bs Ls Ylägesll ols  i 3d) ey aie! wie pI 5 1 asl pled] rad! acd) ls ous p Med Gus L  ——5% ads WJ LES Sos aps LI of dads : US Ps LS Ls se oy bib all eds  AE li Le! tl USL ay tif Via es dés Boga 055 01 Ge Wola! sys Ve lo os  ie d d Lo badly Glo Wg Lidl pln) Ge EL pte (6 51a Lal oi AL «Ge lizadl lal!  colle, SAN ede pal dds shes Yl pas yu Basle I sass dll  sas Ms LS Susu) Saad ill os Pt engl busy ui, 51 Lisi Yoyo)  opal! lie bis oF Ly paladly sl, Go tl) dnl) debiadly Spd) dade Ge 9 ad, Beats!  + Jésus Vo) etl ol  el al >) bass ol sel € élue lolssl 5 SSII 5° Lai galled) Lol yg yy  | 59 dom SM Bela Yh a8 pe Bi ly publ Bucy Vee lite pall pn rl
5 lu 91  YA/YY & Ly dis (oy lpia] 5 L y ty polis QU 6 Sage] se oc pull Gt 1 Y  dy BI Sats 55 * Las Y dyad) pen oo Lls jm of NEST noble dla lps Slay  ——l oe! paP Ur dll 000 pres L EL CAL pl 5 oo Lay Ladle, Guess Les los)  ul cond Lal LS FO EPSRC | PES IE A y « *Lac dl d'Al pes JE (ge Gauss Blo lE1 els  = duels Aygo) An aI) HIT Blagg Al ASlee 8 5) 1 BJ Tos SI a 5 D pladl add]  dsl cy lg « y ûs Gall pled) Lost co, sy Gadiiad | ils ag) Bt loo Sensei als ¥ Js  Pam LI cai by Les la cs Ge Jy A on cTLS Badia) cl gory Lie AB Sil  Ee pl 35 VD rial Uy Hp Weert Bll ve BeBe Bo pal mnt et 0 55 20 9  bill] pte od Lalas aly all MAIN 53,65 3,00, US ds ANA i diliprrans  — « Ladi elas YL, oan Gl pad) pent Labs Susp Bobi | + kaosil ab le Lb) ols  a LER lai soleil Iso ls ose Mises LIU Go Y LS ao AY Seis dilate cs  LEE A EE ITE DR eR Les oa! EUFCIEW | PI USP FSR fe  des 53 Bll, AY, Bene AI Sin Bp ME LaWall tine IL pes ddl pean 6  dois As aU bat ally Buses BOUT Lu, lead Jhsnel Is 5e L5 0 Les slay] Spied p 45 qe  pall os) Lobia, ul! Las YI Je ad) 35 lewd     LT ages © sed] all dg ie NESSIE, susalo 1 baal ea nn  od slbn = aS So SII, las) HE eda is ta elles PRSENIREE of Salt  TE PUPAE] dso als co Soll JAI LVS: ol PY BR SPR PR 15:76)  t 555 | 5 dl à0lel,0 Gall JAI © À sy VU we lal Gal 5h 2) Geli Ye logan)  Wo! cola 5m By, SMILE 5 Le dy + ges la Ye pl Gus Wind) ny Ly li  Ll Lag nly Sais den cle Shea 55 dy Lually  el oué pis Jl Jai lie riens La shal sata le NUM 6 ll ste 1 £000  —slalal, LUT Lolils SOs] lo Lacs as of 2545 sSaisall 3b plo my Bg az  ely pond FLN Le 78 a Weld] pds delai Pid) land! Tae Viol I) 6 bend)  Bly Jobat haa 1 Gl Stille yl USS al BILAN 040 SESE JIO I RC PN
385      > I Gains LI cyril Flag y les ll Lo LS amp Sido! 69,0 Ils ws LS «BEL  pm lady « 3 phaMligaëll Jia cale ASUS 25,6 Bl p Less LS «gb los Les Joly  i oneal Appia) held Jia LS Gh) GS opel le pis las Bl ably SA La  ots 5 Ale Loney Cas 5 (ge ézllaJl BIL ue Yl be pindly aged] au, ls Lu 5 ols (lad! ol ob ea WET  ssl 00m aw, les 5 WN usd) gall 5 TT I ET pa Jol le Logan] outs  sng ali Begs Ou de 9-8 5 À sado LS Lo oS 1e april Adysçalls JL VI  Ls Ys ads AI Gclai)l 00m 9, Las (NSCOR ft) BLOW) ATS shall gs asall Je « posal Viel ls,  « ps Bd) adn lo hols dual Ml debe 38 Log sSasond) ataie GE) oitiy Lis Bal on danas
(14.1) M. MAHJOUB (Irak). - (Traduit de l'arabe. )  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs, en mon nom et au nom de la délégation de la République  irakienne, il m'est agréable, Monsieur le Président, de vous exprimer nos sincères félicitations pour  votre élection à la présidence de cette session à l'unanimité des Etats membres, Je suis convaincu que la  coopération de toutes les délégations aboutira à un franc succès et permettra d'atteindre les objectifs de  la présente session, Je voudrais saisir cette occasion pour saluer le Directeur général et le Secrétariat  de l'Unesco et leur dire combien nous apprécions l'effort qu'ils ont déployé pour assurer la bonne prépa-  ration des documents et l'excellente organisation de la présente Conférence dans cette belle ville d'Afrique:  Nairobi, J'exprime ma gratitude au président de la République du Kenya, M. Joomo Kenyatta, qui a accordé  son patronage à cette Conférence, et au gouvernement kényen pour sa généreuse hospitalité, Monsieur le  Président, permettez-moi de saluer Messieurs les chefs et membres des délégations, et de saluer cha-  leureusement les nouveaux Etats qui se sont joints ou se joindront à cette Organisation internationale, Il  ne fait aucun doute que ces nouvelles délégations assumeront, à leur tour, avec les autres délégations, les  grandes tâches qui incombent à la présente session, Je suis heureux et fier de saluer les délégations des  mouvements africains de libération et la délégation de l'Organisation de libération de la Palestine, seul  représentant légitime du peuple palestinien. Nous avons le ferme espoir que la lutte légitime de ce peuple  contre la colonisation, le sionisme, l'impérialisme et le racisme sera couronnée de succès, afin qu'il  puisse participer, avec les autres peuples du monde, à l'élimination de toutes les formes de persécution,  de discrimination, d'oppression et de colonisation, et à l'édification d'un monde nouveau où l'homme libéré  pourra s'épanouir, Les peuples du monde savent sans aucun doute combien il importe de soutenir la lutte  = ces mouvements et leur juste cause, qui est la libération de leurs patries et l'accès à une nouvelle vie  e liberté.
(14.2) Mesdames et Messieurs, la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale revêt une importance  particulière et a une grande signification du fait qu'elle coîncide avec le trentième anniversaire de l'Orga-  nisation, qui participe à la profonde évolution de la communauté internationale, laquelle passe par la Ibe  ration des peuples opprimés, 1'élimination de 1'iniquité et de 1' exploitation d'un grand nombre de régions  du monde, et par la lutte résolue engagée par les peuples pour conquérir leur liberté, leur souveraineté  etle droit de participer à l'édification d'une nouvelle société internationale, libérée de la peur, de l'injus-  tice, de l'exploitation raciste et impérialiste. II est indubitable que l'écho de ces vastes changements au  sein de l'Unesco témoigne de la haute idée que l'Organisation se fait de ses tâches et de sa fidélité à ses  principes, Cette attitude consciente et rationnelle s'est manifestée dans les résolutions adoptées par la  Conférence générale à sa dix-huitième session et dans tout ce qui en a découlé de bases, de jalons ebditns  dicateurs historiques.
(14. 3) Assurément, le fait que cette Conférence se tienne sur le continent africain fait ressortir l'impor-  tance historique de ce grand continent, de ses peuples militants, de son expérience séculaire et de ses
386      traditions authentiquement nationales. Nous sommes fiers d'accueillir ici, à cette dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale, ces nouvelles délégations venues se joindre à nous de différentes régions du  monde.
(14.4) Je tiens à exprimer ici, au nom de la République irakienne ; Se ui fait partie de i  située sur les deux continents asiatique et africain, = ; la/grande*pairicarabe le sentiment de fierté que nous inspi i i  ; ; spirent les l ens qui  unissent notre peuple arabe aux peuples d'Afrique et qui tiennent à l'histoire, aux luttes communes, à z géographie, a la civilisation. J'exprime aussi notre espoir et notre conviction que ces liens se resserreront  pour assurer la libération des peuples et faire respecter leur droit à un monde de justice et de paix, Je  suis également convaincu que la lutte héroîque engagée par les peuples du Zimbabwe, de Namibie et  d'Azanie et les autres peuples d'Afrique aboutira à leur libération du racisme, de 1! {  l'oppression ; tout comme la lutte du peuple arabe de Palestine et celle de la nation arabe contre l'oppres-  sion et l'agression, représentées par l'existence de l'entité sioniste raciste, triompheront en définitive  malgré les complots des colonisateurs, de l'impérialisme et du sionisme, Cette lutte a des racines histo  riques et géographiques qui en font une lutte parallèle et complémentaire de celle des peuples africains et  des autres peuples ; il ne fait pas de doute que 1'horrible massacre dont ont été victimes d'innocents enfants  de 1'Afrique du Sud, il y a peu de jours, est une image barbare qui nous rappelle le carnage commis par  l'entité sioniste à Dei Yassine sur d'innocents enfants palestiniens, victimes de sa brutalité et de sa cri-  minalité. I] ne fait aucun doute non plus que les peuples du monde savent, grâce au sens inné qui les anime  et à leur conscience militante, que le régime sioniste et les régimes racistes de l'Afrique du Sud et de  Rhodésie vont de pair avec l'appui de l'impérialisme et du colonialisme. Aussi n'est-il pas surprenant que  Pretoria et Tel-Aviv se retrouvent dans la barbarie et l'effusion de sang, sans se soucier de la volonté et  de la dignité des peuples. J'ai la conviction qu'à travers ces réalités, vous avez le sentiment que la con-  damnation de ces régimes racistes et sionistes constitue un devoir humain, moral et international, et que  la liquidation de ces tendances inhumaines par l'action, la politique et la pensée est une affaire essentielle  qui touche aux destinées des peuples du monde entier désireux de se libérer de toutes les formes d'oppres-  sion, d'injustice et d'agression,  impérialisme et de
(14,5) Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi de féliciter le Directeur général et le Secrétariat pour le  soin avec lequel ils ont préparé les deux principaux documents de la Conférence générale, le Projet de  plan à moyen terme (doc. 19 C/4) et le document 19 C/5. Je tiens à dire combien j'apprécie les efforts  déployés pour les présenter sous cette forme marie et intégrée. Le document 19 C/4 définit les objectifs  essentiels de l'activité de l'Unesco au cours des six années à venir. Nous constatons avec satisfaction que  ce document contient une affirmation des droits de l'homme, qu'il souligne la nécessité de renforcer les  principes d'une paix mondiale fondée sur le droit et la justice et qu'y sont énoncés les principes de justice  sociale qui doivent régir la réalisation du développement global axé sur l'homme en tant que but et moyen.  Nous apprécions les passages de ces documents consacrés aux périls que court le monde du fait de la per-  sistance abusive du colonialisme, de l'impérialisme et du racisme, qui sévissent au mépris de la volonté  des peuples et de leur droit à la vie. La République irakienne saisit tout l'intérêt des principes directeurs  contenus dans ce document de portée générale, lequel souligne avec précision et clarté l'importance du  développement et la nécessité de le purifier des éléments de compétition, d'exploitation et de spoliation des  richesses des peuples, Tout en appréciant hautement l'intérêt ainsi porté au développement global et à ses  problèmes sous tous les aspects - économique, politique, technologique, éducatif et culturel - nous sou-  lignons la nécessité d'établir un lien entre ce développement et l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique  international fondé sur les principes de justice et d'égalité des chances, et libéré des tares de la spoliation,  de l'oppression directe et indirecte, du pillage des richesses des peuples en développement qui s'efforcent  de rétablir leur civilisation,
(14.6) Monsieur le Président, le gouvernement révolutionnaire de la République irakienne, sous l'égide du  Parti socialiste arabe Baas, a clairement réaffirmé, à maintes reprises, que le principe d'égalité des chances  en matière de relations économiques internationales et l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique constituent  la meilleure solution en ce sens qu'ils permettraient aux Etats en développement de bénéficier de la parité de  traitement avec les Etats avancés et de réaliser l'aspiration légitime de leurs peuples à une vie meilleure, à  l'écart de l'oppression et de l'exploitation, Nous déclarons ici ànouveau, au nom de la République  irakienne, que les problèmes économiques et sociaux ne peuvent recevoir une solution radicale que  par le rééquilibrage des forces dans le domaine des relations économiques ; aussi convient-il de  donner aux peuples en développement les possibilités légitimes d'assumer leur rôle dans l'édification  du nouvel ordre envisagé et lutter contre les attitudes négatives adoptées par certains Etats indus-  trialisés pour entraver l'instauration d'un ordre économique mondial équitable, Je suis heureux de  préciser ici que la République irakienne a défendu ces principes essentiels en théorie et en pratique,  et s'est attachée, malgré l'ampleur des plans de développement nationaux, à accorder à des Etats  d'Asie et d'Afrique une aide d'un montant de plusieurs centaines de millions de dollars, car elle  estime qu'il est indispensable de contribuer au relèvement de ces peuples pour les habituer à remplir leur rôle  national et humain.
(14.7) Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi de dire combien j'apprécie les programmes proposés pour  l'exercice 1977-1978, tels que le Directeur général les a formulés dans le document 19 C/5 ; ils consti-  tuent une base excellente qui permettra à l'Organisation de s'acquitter de ses tâches pendant les deux  années à venir. Il y a lieu de se féliciter de la relation organique et du lien de complémentarité qui existent  entre les deux documents ; pareillement, les tendances et objectifs majeurs exposés dans l'Introduction du  document méritent d'être appuyés. Nous sommes favorables à cette liaison étroite entre les objectifs et  le contenu des programmes et des plans d'action.
(14.8) Monsieur le Président, nous appuyons les modifications apportées à la structure des secteurs du  Secrétariat ainsi que la création d'un secteur spécial pour les sciences sociales. Nous affirmons également  la nécessité, pour les programmes en général, de contribuer au renforcement des droits de l'homme, à la  réalisation du développement et à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international, Nous estimons  nécessaire de continuer à oeuvrer pour répondre plus largement aux besoins des Etats membres, notam-  ment ceux qui sont en développement, dans le secteur de l'éducation et dans celui des sciences exactes et  naturelles. Nous tenons à souligner l'importance du rôle que l'Unesco peut jouer dans l'affirmation de  l'identité culturelle des nations et des peuples, et celle des efforts déployés par les Nations Unies en vue  de la récupération des biens culturels pillés à l'époque de la domination impérialiste.  ence générale les méfaits dont sont victimes  res arabes occupés de Palestine en général :  selon un plan préétabli et
(14.9) Ici, je me dois d'expliquer aux membres de la Confér  la ville de Jérusalem en particulier et l'ensemble des territoi  mutilation des sites historiques, destruction des caractéristiques culturelles,  agressif incompatible avec les résolutions des Nations Unies et celles de la Conférence générale et du
387   a mentionné dans son rapport les efforts considérables qu'il a dé  des résolutions que la Conférence générale a adoptées à sa dix-  sites culturels de la ville de Jérusalem et de la situation de  l'enseignement dans les territoires occupés, ainsi que le refus d'Israël de se conformer à ces résolutions,  L'acharnement avec lequel les autorités d'occupation sionistes poursuivent cette opération de déformation  et de mutilation estune des plus flagrantes manifestations d'agression, de racisme, d'inhumanité et de  violation des droits de l'homme, C'est pourquoi nous invitons la Conférence générale à réaffirmer, à sa  dix-neuvième session, les résolutions qu'elle a adoptées lors de sa session précédente au sujet de Jérusa-  lem et de la sauvegarde de son identité culturelle, ainsi que de l'agression permanente contre les droits  légitimes du peuple palestinien dans les domaines de l'éducation et de la culture et en ce qui concerne son  attachement à son patrimoine et à son histoire. Ainsi, nous demandons à la Conférence générale d'adopter  une résolution ferme pour mettre fin à cette agression et de ne pas inviter Israël aux réunions et confé-  rences internationales, car il est injuste qu'un des membres de l'Organisation persiste à violer ses réso-  lutions et à mépriser l'opinion publique mondiale, et conserve, après tout, ses droits, malgré sa violation  du droit des gens.
(14.10) Monsieur le Président, j'approuve l'intégration des secteurs de la culture et de l'information, Je  me félicite également du programme d'étude des cultures africaines et asiatiques et de l'intérêt accordé  à l'histoire de l'Afrique, car il est important et nécessaire que le monde connaisse l'expérience humaine  de ce grand continent, et que nous sachions que les peuples africains ont un patrimoine culturel riche et  authentique. En ce qui concerne l'information, nous estimons, comme le Directeur général, qu'elle ne  devrait pas être unilatérale et qu'il faut délimiter les lignes de démarcation et la responsabilité des gou-  vernements dans ce domaine, Il est indubitable que des agences de presse occidentales exercent un mono-  pole sur les nouvelles internationales et empêchent d'autres voix justes de se faire entendre, Il est donc  nécessaire de contrecarrer cette invasion de l'information qui s'opère aux dépens des pays en développe-  ment. Ainsi, nous approuvons l'intérêt accordé, dans le projet de programme, aux divers projets con-  cernant l'information et aux politiques nationales en matière de communication, et nous invitons les pays  non alignés à mettre en oeuvre le projet de création d'une agence de presse commune,  Conseil exécutif, Le Directeur général  ployés pour assurer la mise en oeuvre  huitième session au sujet de la mutilation des
(14.11) Notre délégation tient à dire combien elle se félicite de l'utilisation accrue de la langue arabe à  l'Unesco, ainsi que des paragraphes concernant la coopération entre l'Unesco et l'Organisation arabe pour  l'éducation, la culture et la science,
(14.12) Permettez-moi maintenant d'évoquer la politique de la République irakienne dans le domaine de  l'éducation, qui est conforme aux principes formulés dans les documents de l'Unesco, En effet, nous pour-  suivons la création d'un nouveau système éducatif à la lumière des données déterminées par le Parti socia-  liste arabe Baas, qui exerce le pouvoir révolutionnaire en Irak. Nous avons fait quelques pas vers l'édifi-  cation de ce système éducatif selon les exigences des plans de développement ; nous avons également assuré  la gratuité de l'enseignement aux différents cycles, De même, nous avons élaboré une loi sur l'enseignement  primaire obligatoire, qui sera mise en application en 1978-1979, et nous avons mis en oeuvre tous les  moyens nécessaires à son succès, car nous croyons que l'enseignement est un droit et un devoir pour  chaque citoyen. Nous nous préparons actuellement à mener, sous la direction du Parti socialiste arabe  Baas, une campagne globale d'alphabétisation, à laquelle participeront les organisations et les institutions  populaires et professionnelles ainsi que les masses populaires, afin d'éliminer les derniers vestiges du  sous-développement hérité de l'époque de domination coloniale. En Irak, nous nous attachons à accroître,  diversifier et développer l'enseignement professionnel, et nous poursuivons nos efforts pour créer des  instituts techniques dans les différents domaines, afin de former les cadres nécessaires à l'exécution des  plans globaux de développement économique et social. Nous avons réalisé de grands progrès dans la for-  mation des cadres techniques spécialisés, et avons créé à cette fin une Université technologique et des  instituts techniques. Nous nous efforçons d'assurer l'authenticité et la modernité de la culture et de 1'édu-  cation, et de les lier aux caractéristiques de la nation arabe, dont nous faisons partie, De même, nous  mettons l'accent, dans notre effort pour rénover l'éducation, sur les procédés scientifiques et sur l'adap-  tation des systèmes et des institutions aux valeurs et aux caractéristiques de la société, tout en oeuvrant  pour que notre expérience éducative ait une dimension interarabe et soit liée et en interaction avec les  expériences du Tiers Monde, et en adhérant au principe de la compréhension et de la coopération inter-  nationales au niveau humain.
(14.13) Monsieur le Président, il est nécessaire de renforcer l'Unesco pour qu'elle puisse jouer son rôle  dans la communauté internationale, mettre en oeuvre le programme pour 1977-1978 et atteindre les objectifs  des six prochaines années ; de même, les Etats membres devraient créer les conditions indispensables à  son succès et à la réalisation de son message, Je dois signaler ici, avec grand regret, les campagnes de  presse injustes lancées contre l'Organisation, ainsi que les mesures financières arbitraires adoptées  contre elle par certains Etats membres, notamment les Etats-Unis d'Amérique, comme l'a indiqué le  Directeur général dans son rapport à la Conférence, La presse et les moyens d'information occidentaux,  dirigés et soutenus par l'impérialisme et le sionisme, ont lancé une vaste campagne de dénigrement contre  l'Organisation et les résolutions de la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale, tout en ayant re-  cours aux menaces et en entravant l'exécution des projets et des programmes de l'Unesco, Certains Etats  ont réduit leur contribution, tandis que les Etats-Unis d'Amérique s'abstenaient de verser la leur au budget  de l'Organisation, Aussi condamnons-nous les Etats-Unis pour n'avoir pas versé leur contribution en 1975-
1976 ; nous considérons cela comme très grave dans les relations internationales et comme un moyen de  pression illégitime contre les institutions spécialisées. L'Unesco - dont nous avons l'honneur d'être  membre - appartient à tous les peuples du monde ; elle ne fait pas partie de la zone d'influence d'un Etat  quelconque, et les Etats-Unis d'Amérique n'ont pas le droit de recourir à des pratiques abusives de ce  genre pour essayer d'imposer à l'Organisation leur domination et leur influence en vue d'étendre leur im-  périalisme et de soutenir les éléments sionistes et racistes. La République irakienne invite les représenr  tants des Etats membres à faire en sorte que règne un plus grand esprit constitutionnel et démocratique  dans les activités de l'Organisation et à ne pas porter atteinte aux droits des Etats et à leur souveraineté  en ayant recours à des procédés et à des pressions illégitimes et en menaçant la souveraineté des Etats  membres, représentée par la Conférence générale,
(14.14) Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi de dire quelques mots sur le statut de membre du Conseil  exécutif, Nous approuvons l'essence des propositions suédoises. à cet égard et tenons à marquer notre  accord avec l'amendement mexicain, qui représente à l'heure actuelle un minimum. Je voudrais également  signaler le déséquilibre évident qui existe dans la distribution des sièges du Conseil exécutif aux dépens
388      des groupes III, IV et V. Aussi estimons-nous que l'  sièges, de façon à assurer une distribution équitable  ligner la nécessité d'assurer la justice et l'égalité da  l'Unesco.  on devrait réexaminer les principes de répartition des  entre les cinq groupes, Il y a également lieu de sou-  ns les structures des organismes et organes de
(14.15) Monsieur le Président, la complexité et les dimensions des problèmes internationaux de ce monde  en mouvement imposent à l'Unesco de nouvelles tâches complexes, et nous devrions tous - malgré la diffé-  rence de nos philosophies, de nos opinions ou de nos tendances politiques - adopter le principe du dialogue  constructif, de l'interaction et de la flexibilité de nos relations, pour le bien de toute l'humanité. Nous nous attachons, en Irak, à respecter ces principes en théorie et en pratique, et accordons beaucoup d'im-  portance aux questions de respect mutuel, de souveraineté et d'égalité. Nous soulignons également la né-  cessité de lutter contre les tendances qui vont à l'encontre des intérêts des peuples et de leur volonté  d'établir une paix équitable et la coopération internationale. Nous demandons à cette Conférence de soutenir  la lutte des peuples opprimés et de faire preuve de fermeté à l'égard des forces et des éléments - tels que  le racisme, le sionisme et l'impérialisme - qui essaient de miner les principes de la coopération et de  la détente internationales,
(14.16) Certes le monde est conscient de l'action destructrice menée par le sionisme, le racisme et l'im-  périalisme, qui s'efforcent d'entraver le progrès des peuples vers l'édification d'un monde fondé sur la  justice et la paix. En évoquant ici le rôle destructeur de ces forces impérialistes, sionistes et racistes,  il me faut souligner que l'entité sioniste - qui doit sa création et son existence aux résolutions des Nations  Unies - ne cesse de mépriser les décisions et les résolutions adoptées par cette organisation internationale  et ses institutions spécialisées, Ces faits sont confirmés par les documents de l'Unesco, et plus encore  par ceux de l'ONU. Qu'il suffise de mentionner brièvement la ville de Jérusalem - sacrée pour des cen-  taines de millions de musulmans et de chrétiens - dont les biens culturels, les sanctuaires, les monuments  et les quartiers sont soumis à une agression ; à cela s'ajoutent la violation des droits culturels et éducatifs,  la défiguration de l'enseignement, la poursuite des enseignants et des enseignés, et le mépris des droits  de l'homme. Tout ceci n'est pas seulement dû à une clique tyrannique d'occupants ; c'est le fait du sionisme  en tant que mouvement raciste, exclusiviste & agressif, qui domine de larges secteurs de la presse et de  l'information, corrompt les consciences et exploite les mouvements politiques pour atteindre ses propres  fins, pousse certains politiciens occidentaux à négliger les intérêts de leurs peuples, et se rend compte  que son existence dépend de la création de tensions et de conflits, et de la conquête de territoires par la  force des armes, Le caractère raciste du sionisme s'est aggravé, et sa nature ignoble a été révélée au  monde civilisé lorsqu'il fut condamné, par la majorité des Etats membres de l'Organisation des Nations  Unies, aux termes de la résolution 3379 adoptée lors de la session ordinaire de l'Assemblée générale de
1975, I] a été également condamné par la Conférence internationale de la femme à Mexico et par les con-  férences des Etats non alignés tenues à Lima et à Colombo, Ainsi, la voie est claire devant cette auguste  Conférence générale, à qui il appartient d'adopter à ce sujet une résolution décisive visant à réaffirmer  la condamnation du sionisme en tant que mouvement raciste et à demander au Secrétariat de mener à son  sujet des études qui dévoileraient au monde son visage, ses motifs, ses actes inhumains, son influence  néfaste sur les mouvements politiques et intellectuels dans le monde, ses menées agressives contre les  intérêts et la dignité des peuples, et la menace qu'il représente pour la paix mondiale, L'Unesco, plus  que toute autre organisation, devrait entreprendre cette tâche, qui se situe dans son domaine de compétence,  étant donné qu'elle représente la conscience de l'humanité et qu'une telle étude servirait ses objectifs en  dénonçant le racisme, en exposant ses diverses formes et en le dévoilant à l'opinion publique mondiale,
(14.17) Monsieur le Président, conscient de l'importance des tâches qui incombent à cette Organisation  internationale, je voudrais affirmer ici que la République irakienne continuera à soutenir les activités et  les efforts de l'Unesco, afin qu'elle puisse poursuivre sa mission en faveur du bien-être, de la liberté et  de la dignité de l'humanité. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
(15) Le PRESIDENT. - (Traduit de l'arabe. ) ;  Je remercie S. Exc. M. Mohammed Mahjoub, ministre de l'éducation et chef de la délégation de l'Irak.  J'ai le plaisir d'appeler à la tribune l'ambassadeur délégué permanent auprès de l'Unesco et chef de la  délégation de Cuba, S. Exc. M. Julio Le Riverend Brusone.
(16.1) M. LE RIVEREND (Cuba). - (Traduit de l'espagnol, )  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, je tiens  à commencer par saluer celui qui a été appelé à présider, dans ce pays hospitalier qui est le sien ;  mière session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco tenue en Afrique, terre à laquelle nous unissent tant  de liens historiques, biologiques et culturels, Aujourd'hui, en outre, nous travaillons ensemble à créer  sur le plan international et intérieur, les conditions nécessaires d'abord à la construction du présent, puis  à celle d'un avenir où les blessures qui nous ont été infligées pendant des siècles pourraientenfin puérir défi-  nitivement.  la pre-
(16,2) Cette session de la Conférence générale revêt une signification symbolique, car nous pouvons y  saluer la présence de l'héroïque peuple du Viêt-nam réunifié, sans oublier la participation du Mozambique  libéré qui, tout comme l'Angola que nous espérons voir bientôt parmi nous, a lutté non seulement pour  conquérir son indépendance, mais surtout pour la sauvegarder face à tous les obstacles accumulés par ses  ennemis, Nous sommes heureux de savoir que la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guinée, les Seychelles, Surinam et  Grenade, qui sont des morceaux de notre terre américaine, sont avec nous. Nul ne saurait douter que leur  présence enrichira l'expérience de l'Organisation, élargira ses objectifs et accroftra son prestige.
(16.3) L'Unesco, dont le caractère universel est plus évident chaque année, a déjà beaucoup fait et ouvert  de multiples possibilités en vue de la réalisation de notre noble aspiration commune, Elle éveille et stimule  chez tous les peuples la conscience de plus en plus nette de leur droit fondamental à mener une vie digne  et forgée par eux-mêmes, sans rien devoir aux dons ni à la charité internationale sur la base d'une pleine  souveraineté, du droit pour chacun de choisir le chemin qui lui convient le mieux selon les circonstances  où il se trouve, et de la nécessité d'extirper des pays de notre continent et des autres régions l'ordre  ancien fondé sur l'exploitation abusive des ressources naturelles et humaines et sur la force des empires  créés au cours des cinq derniers siècles. A cet égard, l'Unesco a non seulement une mission symbolique  à remplir, mais aussi de lourdes et glorieuses responsabilités, que vous partagez vous-même, Monsieur  le Président, pour des raisons évidentes, comme le prouve le discours inaugural que vous avez prononcé  à l'occasion du trentième anniversaire de l'Organisation,
(16.4) En somme, Monsieur le Président, sous votre autorité et soutenus par l'esprit de l'Unesco et par  l'action du Directeur général et du Secrétariat, nous devons entreprendre d'analyser des problèmes  extrêmement graves, et tenter de nous rapprocher sans cesse davantage de définitions et de solutions  appropriées, C'est ainsi, en effet, que nous progresserons tous au rythme des faits objectifs de la réalité  du monde, qui n'est pas immuable mais éminemment dynamique et riche d'espoirs,
(16.5) Cela dit, qui constitue notre espérance et le fondement du message de Cuba, je tiens à soumettre  à votre examen et à celui des délégations qui nous écoutent les critères déjà exposés par notre délégation  au cours d'autres débats à l'Unesco, Avant tout, il convient de rappeler l'observation formulée dans  "Le monde en devenir'',selon laquelle en fuyant tous les sujets de mésentente, si importants qu'ils soient,  on les laisse s'aggraver tout seuls - et j'aimerais ajouter que cela aboutirait à faire de la présente enceinte  un monde à part où tout dénoterait un inexplicable oubli des questions angoissantes qu'à l'extérieur l'huma-  nité se pose sur son destin, Monsieur le Président, il n'y a pas et il ne saurait y avoir deux mondes aussi  contradictoires à l'heure actuelle ; c'est pourquoi, tout en croyant fermement à la possibilité de parvenir  à des accords, nous considérons qu'il y a des moments où cette possibilité est exclue, Comme vous l'avez  vous-même très bien dit, Monsieur le Président, nous devons tomber d'accord pour reconnaître que, dans  certains cas, il y a désaccord, et cela - je me permettrai de l'ajouter - surtout lorsque le vieil ordre  international prétend s'opposer, par des moyens qui empêchent toute réalisation des objectifs fixés, a  l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique, éducatif, socioculturel et scientifique,
(16.6) L'Unesco a approuvé un plan sexennal qui expose, compte tenu des limites imposées par les réalités  mondiales actuelles, ce que nous devons faire pour instaurer ce nouvel ordre international, Cubaa  approuvé ce document, qui est connu de tous, Il faudra en conséquence se conformer aux priorités qu'il  énonce sous la forme d'objectifs et de sous-objectifs, tout comme aux indications qui concernent les acti-  vités du.programme. A notre sens, le document 19 C/4 a force obligatoire pour tous, et, dans cette mesure,  il sert de fondement au programme biennal de l'Organisation,
(16.7) Il faudra naturellement apporter aussi des modifications des ajustements et des précisions au do-  cument 19 C/5 puisque celui-ci contient encore des projets et des plans inspirés de conceptions antérieures  au choix des grandes orientations définies dans le document 19 C/4, Il suffirait d'indiquer - comme cela  ressort de la résolution pertinente votée lors de la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale, ainsi  que des accords parallèles adoptés par le groupe des pays non alignés, par exemple - qu'il reste beaucoup  à faire dans le cadre du nouvel ordre applicable à l'éducation, à la science, à l'information et aux questions  socioculturelles,  je n'oublie pas que 1'Introduction du Directeur général aux (16.8) En disant cela, Monsieur le Président, vas  nent des principes documents 19 C/4 et 19 C/5 tout comme le texte même des deux documents, contien Te  irréfutables et les plans d'action qui en découlent, Ce n'est pas par hasard, mais bien du fait d'une néces-  sité historique évidente, qu'un petit groupe de pays, créé depuis quelque 25 ans, a semé les germes de la  réorganisation de l'ordre international et intérieur : ce n'est pas par hasard non plus que ce programme, ,  a peine ébauché donc, est en 1976 au centre de nos débats, de nos accords et de nos confrontations ;ce  n'est pas par hasard que se sont constitués des groupes comme le groupe des pays nor alignés, et celui  des 77, entre lesquels il existe d'importantes concordances dont il faut se féliciter, En effet, à une cons-  cience générale nouvelle doivent correspondre de nouvelles institutions, de nouveaux programmes et aussi  des organisations internationales rénovées, parmi lesquelles l'Unesco se place au premier rang, comme  le montrent les documents établis par ses soins, et en particulier le document 19 C/4.
(16.9) Les principes en question - qui ont été énoncés Lan dernier et que les organisations et conférences  mondiales s'attachent aujourd'hui a préciser - sont, de l'avis de ma délégation, les suivants : première.  ment, respect de la souveraineté, de l'autodétermination et de la dignité socioculturelle de chaque nation  et de chaque peuple, base indispensable de la paix et de la compréhension internationales, Deuxièmement,  nécessité de mettre fin immédiatement aux relations d'une inégalité croissante qui caractérisent le monde  actuel. Troisièmement, liquidation totale du colonialisme, du néo-colonialisme, du racisme, de l'apar-  theidet de l'occupation par des agresseurs de territoires où sont établis des peuples qui n'ont pas recours à  la force ni à la menace, Quatrièmement, sens de la responsabilité des Etats, concrétisé par une volonté  réelle d'agir, les uns en respectant strictement la souveraineté et les aspirations d'autrui, et les autres  en déployant tous les efforts nécessaires pour créer sur le plan intérieur de nouvelles conditions qui leur  permettront de faire face efficacement à l'inégalité des relations internationales, Cinquièmement, mise  au point de nouveaux types et de nouvelles formes de coopération, tenant compte non seulement des besoins  véritables mais aussi de la volonté des pays en développement. Ne coopérer qu'à ce qui intéresse telle oy  telle société transnationale créatrice d'flots qui divisent les peuples, établir une coopération qui n'atteint  que des minorités dont le destin pourrait être de se séparer de leur propre peuple, arracher à une terre  les meilleurs de ses fils pour qu'ils aillent servir des intérêts étrangers quand ils ne sont pas antinationaux,  tout cela met en péril la coopération telle que nous la concevons plus justement à l'Unesco, Les peuples du  Tiers Monde ont droits à une coopération sans conditions déshonorantes, sans violence ni tromperie, sans  coûts prohibitifs. Aussi souhaiterions-nous que l'Organisation intensifie encore ses efforts pour stimuler  la coopération entre pays en développement, Sixième principe, le respect de l'intégrité culturelle de chaque  nation, entendue non comme une "modernisation' des vieilles légendes imprégnées d'exotisme, comme  celle du "bon sauvage'' au XVIIIe siècle, mais comme reconnaissance de la capacité créatrice des peuples  asservie par le colonialisme, l'impérialisme et les modèles de consommation et de gaspillage, L'identité  culturelle n'est pas un spectacle d'importation ou d'exportation, mais la fontaine de jouvence des valeurs  humaines des peuples, la preuve qu'un peuple peut et doit, aujourd'hui encore, dans des circonstances  différentes de celles du passé, affronter ses propres problèmes et les résoudre, parce qu'il possède la  créativité potentielle qui lui est nécessaire pour concourir à son propre destin, sans cosmopolitisme banal  sans souci appauvrissant de consommation, sans greffes nocives. Loin d'être un retour au passé ou une  permanence du passé, l'identité culturelle, même dans ses formes les plus traditionnelles, doit et peut  être la source d'inspiration de solutions actuelles, car aucune culture, Monsieur le Président, n'est une  entité vague et sclérosée, Le colonialisme et le racisme ont voulu reléguer l'identité culturelle dans les  musées comme si elle était un objet dénué de vie, mais il est temps de lui donner le rôle vigoureux qui  lui revient dans le monde d'aujourd'hui, Il est temps qu'elle constitue notre noble apport à l'humanité, qui,  elle, ne vit pas dans les musées, Ces différentes considérations se retrouvent dans le document 19 C/4,  où elles sont présentées comme des aspects du développement, lequel n'est pas, comme le voudraient  certains, une simple consigne économique, Les pays qui se sont développés au sens purement économique  du terme l'ont fait au risque de mettre en péril de plus hautes valeurs,
(16.10) L'éducation, la science, la culture, l'information, la santé, le sport ne devraient pas être une  question de comptabilité, autrement dit ne devraient pas être restrictifs ou limitatifs pour les peuples, Si  le développement économique était synonyme d'élitisme, de consommation pour les autres et d'abandon  pour des majorités angoissées et parfois sans défense, si la création de richesses équivalait à maintenir  ce partage entre minorités satisfaites et majorités pleines d'un noble courroux, si elle supposait une accen-  tuation de graves différences qui, dans l'échelle des nations, séparent les pays et les groupes sociaux,  alors nous pouvons affirmer en toute franchise, en arguant de notre propre exemple, que tel ne saurait  être le désir de notre époque, En bien des endroits du monde, ce schéma a été dépassé et l'Unescoa raison  de reconnaître que tout pays a le droit de le rejeter s'il le souhaite. A cet égard, notre organisation est  d'accord avec l'Organisation des Nations Unies, qui, dans des résolutions, déclarations et divers docu-  ments comme la Charte des devoirs et droits économiques des Etats, a aussi reconnu ce droit,
(16.11) Il est clair, Monsieur le Président, que nous appuyons tout ce qui vise à garantir la pleine souve-  raineté des Etats sur leurs ressources naturelles ; c'est pourquoi nous approuvons tous les projets de  l'Unesco de nature à contribuer à la création d'infrastructures en matière d'éducation, de science, de  technique et d'information qui soient adaptées aux conditions, aux besoins et aux perspectives de développe-  ment de chaque pays. Il s'ensuit que nous estimons indispensable d'améliorer le pouvoir d'achat des expor-  tations des pays en développement, afin d'accroître les ressources disponibles pour la réalisation des  objectifs sociaux, et notamment de ceux qui sont la raison d'être de l'Unesco, Il faut beaucoup de moyens  - et plus encore de la décision et des efforts - pour extirper l'analphabétisme et la sous-scolarisation, Il  nous paraît injuste de penser que les milliards d'êtres humains qui ne savent pas lire ou ne le peuvent  qu'à grand-peine constituent une génération perdue, Nous ne devons pas nous résigner à gaspiller une  ressource aussi indispensable,
(16.12) Nous disons cela parce que demeure toujours valable le principe selon lequel c'est l'homme, l'être  humain, qui constitue la plus grande richesse, Et l'on ne construit pas un pays ou un monde nouveau, avec  des gens déchus de leur condition humaine, de leur dignité éthique et culturelle ou de leur idéal de ne pas  manquer du nécessaire ; les biens matériels doivent être pour les peuples la source de leur éducation, de  leur culture, de leur science, de leur connaissance authentique des autres peuples et d'eux-mêmes, la  racine, en un mot, d'une vie pleinement humaine.
(16.13) Nous estimons que l'information doit être un instrument de paix et de connaissance loyale des pays.  Entretenir des stéréotypes péjoratifs, taire ou défigurer les efforts des pays en développement pour se  frayer un chemin, utiliser les moyens de communication de masse pour agresser les peuples sur leur  propre sol sous prétexte de liberté d'expression - voilà des pratiques aujourd'hui bien connues, dont les  effets perturbateurs n'épargnent pas même les organisations internationales comme l'Unesco, Le Directeur  général dans son discours, brillant si riche de substance, a mentionné cet important problème. Nous  approuvons dès maintenent tout ce qui se fera pour mettre un terme à cette insidieuse utilisation des grandes  découvertes de la science moderne, C'est là pour nous une condition sine qua non de la paix et du dévelop-  pement, Peut-on, par exemple, accepter la contribution majeure que les moyens de communication de  masse ont apportée aux entreprises de déstabilisation dénoncées récemment dans les pays des Caraîbes ?  Si l'éducation, la culture et l'information n'ont d'autre finalité que de reproduire, en accentuant ses traits  les plus néfastes, le système dominant dans le monde tel qu'il a été conçu par le capitalisme conquérant  des siècles précédents et tel que l'impérialisme contemporain veut le maintenir, nous serons amenés à  conclure ici, dans cette enceinte, que l'évolution du monde est hérissée de plus de difficultés que nous ne
394      pouvions l'imaginer, S'il en est ainsi, des peuples comme celui du Vv  parmi lesquels nombre de nations africaines - celles du Zimbabwe e  montré leur volonté de conquérir, à tout prix, le droit de construir  international.  iêt-nam, le mien et beaucoup d'autres,  t de la Namibie par exemple - ont dé-  e leur propre vie face au vieil ordre
(16.14) Parce que nous sommes interdépendants, il faut que nous soyons indépendants, à l'intérieur  comme à l'extérieur, L'interdépendance engendrée par la révolution scientifique et technique ne peut être  fondée sur l'inégalité, sous peine d'être une continuation de la dépendance. L'interdépendance doit procéder  de l'égalité et du respect de la justice ; elle doit consister dans la restitution aux peuples de ce dont ils ont  été expropriés ; elle doit être fondée sur leur droit à l'existence et à la paix dans la dignité ; elle doit  plonger ses racines dans leur sentiment d'être préservés des agressions du crime et de la propagande)  et se nourrir de leur ardent désir de contribuer à part entière à édifier une humanité meilleure dans le  cadre du nouvel ordre international,
(16.15) Peut-être certains de ceux qui ont pratiqué le vieil ordre crieront-ils au bouleversement, à la  subversion. En toute franchise, ce serait là une présentation fallacieuse de notre position, Mettre en  accusation ceux d'entre nous qui affirment bien haut que l'Unesco est en train de trouver sa voie, cela équi-  vaut à mettre l'Unesco elle-même en accusation. On ne l'accusait pas lorsqu'elle était au rouage docile  du vieil ordre international, lorsque son rôle se limitait à reproduire cet ordre international, Sur cet in-  désirable passé, on fait silence, ou bien l'on demande le pardon ou l'oubli, Que l'on donne à l'homme, aux  peuples, les instruments éducatifs dont ils ont besoin pour créer leur propre destin, et ils oublieront.  Que l'on dépose entre leurs mains les richesses matérielles et spirituelles dont ils ont été privés, et ils  seront capables de pardonner, Nous nous exprimons ainsi, bien qu'à notre avis ce n'est pas une question  d'oubli ou de pardon, mais une simple exigence de justice,
(16.16) Quelques mots pour terminer, Monsieur le Président. Nous sommes pour la concertation, mais  sans pressions toutes puissantes, sans menaces délirantes contre les pays et contre l'Organisation elle-  même, sans conditions qui ôtent toute substance à notre réflexion, à notre recherche, à notre droit, à nos  espérances. Le consensus doit reposer sur l'engagement de respecter les normes les plus élémentaires  de la coexistence internationale, Ces normes, nous les avons respectées, Nous avons respecté les droits  de l'homme et les avons portés à leur plus haute expression. Tout le peuple cubain jouit des droits de  l'homme - travail, éducation, santé, culture - et participe consciemment à leur affermissement. Les  seuls qui, à Cuba,ne possèdent pas de droits sont ceux qui n'ont pas de respect pour la.volonté construc-  trice qui anime nos neuf millions et demi d'habitants, ceux qui sont téléguidés pour se livrer à des agres-  sions à l'extérieur ou à l'intérieur, ceux qui s'opposent par des procédés malhonnêtes à notre marche vers  une coexistence meilleure, plus heureuse et plus généreuse, Ce que nous avons réalisé dans les domaines  de l'économie, de l'éducation, de la science, de la culture, de la médecine, de l'information, du développe-  ment rural est bien connu ; vous me permettrez donc, Monsieur le Président, de ne pas m'étendre là-  dessus. Nombreux sont les témoignages venus de tous les horizons qui en font foi, et il ne manque pas de  publications et de documents de l'Unesco qui le confirment, Monsieur le Président, nous exigeons que tout  cela soit respecté, non seulement parce qu'il s'agit d'un patrimoine dont nous sommes fiers, mais aussi  parce que nous l'avons mis à la disposition des peuples et des organismes qui peuvent en avoir besoin,  sans conditions, sans ambitions, sans leur enlever un iota de leur richesse et sans les priver d'une once  de leur dignité.
(16.17) Voilà ce que nous apportons à la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale, avec l'espoir  qu'elle soit couronnée de succès, qu'elle soit une réaffirmation de l'aspiration à un monde régi par des  principes et non par l'agression et le mensonge dont Cuba est, avec bien d'autres pays et peuples, aujour-  d'hui encore la victime. Dans ce cadre, Monsieur le Président, dont nous ne franchirons pas les limites,  nous nous proposons de rechercher, aux côtés des autres délégations, les meilleures formes d'activité  pour notre Organisation ; et j'aurai l'occasion, tout au long des travaux qui auront lieu en séance plénière  et en commission, de présenter nos commentaires sur certains problèmes précis, Nous sommes disposés  à examiner, à méditer, à appuyer tout ce qui pourra contribuer à résoudre les problèmes qui déchirent  le Tiers Monde ; nous sommes prêts à respecter les points de vue différents à condition qu'ils soient  loyaux, honnêtes et constructifs. Car nous avons confiance dans l'avenir que nous guettons et nous sommes  dès à présent capables de tenir notre place dans l'effort commun et dans l'échange d'idées, d'initiatives  et de réalisations, Ce n'est pas d'aujourd'hui, mais depuis plus de dix ans, que nous défendons l'idée de  la formation d'un ensemble économique exclusivement latino-américain, et nous appartenons désormais  au Système économique latino-américain (SELA). De même, avec d'autres pays de la Méditerranée amé-  ricaine, nous faisons partie de la Compagnie multinationale de navigation des Caraïbes, Nous allons d'autre  part présenter à la commission compétente un projet relatif à l'étude, à la définition et à l'utilisation en  commun des cultures de la région des Caraïbes,
(16.18) Monsieur le Président, nos positions sont claires, Jamais nous n'avons tenu cachés les idées et  les objectifs qui sous-tendent notre droit à nous exprimer, droit qui, loin de contredire notre dévouement  aux principes et à l'action de l'Unesco, le renforce et le stimule. Aussi n'approuvons-nous pas, ne pouvons-  nous approuver que, sous prétexte d'un apolitisme qui est en soi profondément politique, on passe sous  silence tel ou tel problème qui préoccupe la majorité de la communauté internationale, Certains de ces  problèmes sont de véritables cas de génocide éducatif et culturel, bien connus, souvent débattus et à propos  desquels les organes internationaux ont adopté des résolutions.
(16.19) Nous avons reçu de nombreuses preuves de la solidarité et de la coopération de peuples et d'Etats  ayant des régimes politiques et sociaux différents. Nous ne l'avons pas caché, Nous l'avons exposé cette  année même au Conseil exécutif et n'avons donc pas à donner ici d'autres précisions à ce sujet. Nous nous  sommes engagés à être solidaires et à collaborer avec quiconque a montré sa volonté d'être fidèle à sa  parole et à son action. Que cesse cette philosophie du pillage qui s'efforce de justifier tour ce qui se passe  de mal et d'immoral dans le monde, comme notre Premier ministre l'a dit, dans des circonstances mé-  morables, devant l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, Telle est notre aspiration, Nous voulons que  la paix, la sécurité et la coopération fassent briller dans de nombreux cieux du monde - aujourd'hui obscurcis  par la détresse, la misère et l'inculture - leurs merveilleuses lumières. Et qu'au lieu de la détonation  des canons en guerre contre la libération des peuples, au lieu de l'explosion des bombes, au lieu de  émissions de radio mensongères, se fassent, enfin, entendre seulement les voix des maîtres et des ves  dans leurs salles de classe, les discussions des scientifiques dans leurs laboratoires, le message des  artistes dans leurs couleurs et dans leurs mélodies, l'expression des moyens d'information dans leurs  vérités. Et que haut, très haut, résonne le choeur unanime des hommes rendus à la condition humaine par  leur travail et leur sagesse, Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
(17) se s. Exc. M. Julio Le Riverend Brusone, ambassadeur délégué permanent auprès de  l'Unesco et chef de la délégation de Cuba. Je suis heureux d'appeler à la tribune S. Exc. M, Kjglv Egeland,  ministre de l'éducation et des affaires ecclésiastiques et chef de la délégation de la Norvège,
18.1 Mr. EGELAND (Norway): dE.  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen: May I, initially, express my own and my delegation's  warm congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your happy election to the leadership of this Con-  ference. My delegation also wishes to express gratitude to the President and the Government of  Kenya for having taken upon themselves the arrangements for this Conference. May I add that we  are profoundly impressed by the way the Conference has been prepared and is being carried through,  and not less by the way the delegates are catered for, socially and in other ways.
18. 2 By and large, my delegation is strongly in favour of, and will give support to, the main items  put forward by the Director-General with regard to the ends and means of Unesco for the next work-  ing period. We find it particularly necessary - indeed imperative - to seek and to achieve concen.  tration on some principal goals for this Organization. These stand out as those that have been the  fundamental ideas and the very essence of Unesco from the time our Organization came into being,  Let me just briefly indicate, in key words, what I have in mind: universalism - a new economic  world order - the abolition of colonialism - the liberation of human beings and human groups by  changing their inner attitudes and outward circumstances.
18. 3 For thirty years now, Unesco has sought to promote international co-operation within the  fields of education, science, culture and communication. There is always a danger that a big  organization will tend to overdo the task of maintaining its own administration and put so much work  into keeping afloat that the very meaning of its existence may sometimes fade into the background,  Unesco has not fully escaped this danger, I am afraid. However, we are now looking forward to a  new approach to planning and to programming. The Medium-Term Plan and the biennial budget of  Unesco will hopefully be tools which can contribute to the co-ordinated effort of the United Nations  system to establish a new international economic order. So far few manifest results have been  obtained in this field. Though the notion of a new world economic order has to some extent been  clarified, and though even a number of industrialized countries have accepted this new concept,  the really difficult questions are still awaiting solution. In the end - or more correctly, Mr. Pres-  ident, at all times - the heart of the problem is whether the rich nations are willing to initiate a  global redistribution of economic wealth and power. If so, the rest is fairly easy because it is a  question of technique. If this is not the case, no technique in the world will help. I, for one, think  that while we are waiting and hoping for substantial, major results in this field, Unesco indeed has  a role to play in the development of a new international economic order.
18.4 First, such a global reorientation is to a large extent a question of creating consciousness  through knowledge, understanding and education. We know from practical experience in Norway  that a positive public attitude to changes in society in the direction of a greater degree of just and  fair distribution may depend upon information, on the impact made on people's minds. A new inter-  national economic order is also a question of a fair distribution of educational services, of scien-  tific resources and of information technology among nations. The Norwegian Government hopes  that this nineteenth session of Unesco's General Conference will devote itself to such and other  really constructive tasks. It would indeed be a pity if the attention of the delegates and of the public  at large were to be focused mainly on controversial side issues, some of which will by no means be  solved within the frames of reference of this Organization.
18.5 One very important aspect of the inequalities and imbalances in the world of today is the gap  between information poverty and information affluence, Communications are flowing from the north  of the world to the south a hundred times more frequently than vice versa. This situation is to  some extent a heritage from the colonial past. My government very well understands the demand  from the non-aligned nations for a more balanced and equitable distribution of news and information  to the peoples of the world. On a miniature scale, we know from our country, Mr. President, how  badly things develop when sources and means of information accumulate or vanish according,  largely, to the fluctuations of economic resources, But this is a type of damage that can, to a  certain degree, be repaired. In Norway we try to help weaker social and geographic groups to  make their voices heard through active State support for the operation of newspapers, in such forms  as paper subsidies, public advertising, cheap postal rates and other means. But by no means and  in no way whatsoever will any authority intervene in what is actually printed in the papers. The  State as such helps opinions to be expressed. But it should never attach any ideological or other  directive conditions to such support.
18.6 In my country we are also preoccupied with the question of what, in essence, we do tell .  each other through our means of communication. If media people are to communicate a true Pic”  ture of the world in which we live, they must also describe a society which is often cruel and vio-
396      lent and unjust. But to use violence, cruelty, torture and the violation of human dignity as mer-  chandise, as material for diversion, excitement and sale, is indeed a misuse of the means of  communication. Freedom of information should not be understood to mean freedom from moral  responsibility or freedom from public criticism, But it does certainly mean that the State should  protect the rights of all to speak their own opinion frankly and freely. With this we must say that  we see few possibilities of forbidding, or banning even, the intolerable and detestable use of com-  mercialized mass media. Our best, sometimes our only, line of protection will lie in the develop-  ment of an individual, critical reflection in the individual's own mind. My government very well  understands the necessity for developing countries to improve substantially their own media tech-  nologies, forms and institutions, in order to arrive at a more just sharing of information at the  international level, and it is our belief that more emphasis should be put on Unesco's assistance  to Member States in the development of information and communication systems. The Norwegian  Government is prepared to contribute to such a strengthening of Unesco's programme in the field  of information. At the same time we fully accept the need for the highest ethics to govern the use  made of the mass media. We do, however, feel strongly that renewed studies and consultations  with Member States should be undertaken when it comes to normative action aimed at inspiring  the mass media to promote international understanding. Further work seems to us to be indeed  a precondition for the elaboration of an adequate and effective normative instrument. To put the  matter briefly: during the forthcoming biennium, Unesco's work for a more just sharing of infor-  mation resources should be strengthened, and the question of normative action should be further  worked upon. This, we feel, should be undertaken as part of a combined effort to.realize the  right to communicate and to promote the communication of messages which are relevant, meaning-  ful and free in the sense that the reporters themselves are fully responsible to their own conscience  and to the universally accepted professional ethics for what they actually report.
18.7 Now, Mr. President, allow me to say a few words on what is both the very basis and summit  of all Unesco's work - by which I mean the liberation of human beings, indeed of humanity. As my  own effort towards a concentration of focus, I shall try to apply this point to two or three specific  items. First, that of the liberation of women; I believe it is just to say that women - that is half  of the world's population - are underprivileged in all countries, including my own. Very rarely,  if ever, do women enjoy their proportionate share in decision- and policy-making bodies. In most,  probably all, countries they are in the majority in the lowest and least influential positions but, of  course, always in relation to the basic standards of each country. In most, if not all, countries  men are in the majority in the highest and most influential bodies. The heart of the whole matter  is, Mr. President, inmy eyes, that we have perhaps too much concentrated our attention on formal  rights and legal solutions. Those are necessary as a beginning, but by no means sufficient. To  illustrate my point I will use some data from a recent Norwegian investigation in the field of educa-  tion. All elementary teacher students in Norway who acquired their teaching certificate in the year
1965 were followed up for eight years. Sixty per cent of the candidates were women. In other  words, the access to studies is not in dispute. The outer or legal, formal question has been solved,  but not the inner one, for the women had, on an average, higher academic scores than the men on  entering the teachers' training colleges and on graduation, but after eight years we find the men occupy-  ing all the top administrative positions while the women are still in the lowest ones. It is a safe  guess to say that we will find similar patterns throughout our own society and in most societies.  Women are confronted by structural barriers, such as the lack of day-care centres for children.  They also encounter psychological barriers: expectations from their surroundings as to the sacri-  fices demanded of a woman, their own lack of self-confidence and the images men have of the type  of person they want in leading positions. Justice ought to be done to women - we all agree to this  laudable slogan. Now the time has come for the implementation of fine words and promises. That  can only be done by seeing and solving the problem in all its concrete individual and specific mani-  festations - every day, everywhere. This is above all a question of being fair and just and right.  But I also think, Mr. President, that we might have a better world to live in were women given  real influence over political issues, thus releasing to the world enormous values from hitherto  locked-up resources.
18.8 The second and last issue Iwishtoraise, Mr. President, will concern the position, the role  and the tasks of artists in modern society. For some years now, the attention of Unesco has been  focused on these matters. The great diversity of traditions, of ideologies, of social and material  conditions in the Member States makes the task of establishing a common basis for an international  instrument in this field an extremely complex and delicate one. The Executive Board has very  wisely considered that further studies of the technical, legal and administrative aspects of this  matter were required before a decision on the advisability of elaborating an instrument was taken.  The Norwegian delegation fully supports the Board's judgement, and we await with great interest  the outcome of these further studies before we adopt our own final position as to the advisability  of regulating this matter on an international basis. However, I would like to make it clear that  over the past few years, a number of principles have been discussed and have been accorded  general acceptance in my country. Accordingly, my government is in the process of TS  in close contact with the country's artists' organizations, a framework for the exercise of free a  Creative artistic activity, Some of these principles have already been presented to and identifie  by international conferences and consultations held under the auspices of Unesco. 1 shall briefly  recall some leading principles here, since in our view they may well have a  influence  upon responsible governmental policy-makingin this field. We feel, indeed, that in a a er  Spective such or similar principles could constitute a fundamental instrument of i scope,  the continuing aim being to help creative art come into existence and be performed on its own
397   innate conditions. Those principles are that: (a) the artists themselves and their organization must  play an active and decisive part in the formulation of their own society's policy, concerning the i  role and functions of artistic creation as well as the social and material position of the Creative  workers; (b) the artist should be regarded as not only useful but indispensable in society through  what he is creating and performing out of his own understanding and ability; (c) it should be the  duty of society to assure for its artists social rights and living conditions equal to those of other  social groups so as to reduce as much as possible unnecessary outer material constraints on the  free, creative process and permit extensive contacts, nationally and internationally, with col.  leagues as well as with the community at large; (d) such practice should be derived from the  philosophy that the artist should be paid honestly and fairly by society for the services he is doing  in and for society. These are conditions that are essential to the creative process, whose func.  tions in modern society are manifold and necessary. One of the most important is that the artist  like the scientist, adds to our common resources of understanding and self-understanding, io  all, perhaps, he has a serious and important task in being an interpreter of constant, reflective  and meaningful criticism in and of society. The critical function of artists is often controversia] -  it is therefore all the more imperative for us all that the conscious critic should be there, and that  he should be able to speak up. In most of our countries, the artists have long formed an under-  privileged social group. Our duty at present must be to guarantee to this group a position of social  legal and material equality. First and last, in this connection, it must be for the artist, and for  her or him alone, to decide what is worth creating and what is meaningful to create. There is  nothing more individual or individualistic than to create in the true artistic sense of the word,  There is nobody more lonely in the world than the true artists. But then there is nothing more  indispensable for us, the public, than what the artist does for us. Mr. President, thank you for  your patient attention.  (Mr. Toweett resumed the chair.)
19. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Norway and now call upon Dr. Kamal Naji, Director-  General, Ministry of Education, and the head of the delegation of Qatar.  : (LES Abo ) eb JUS xl yo  és Leg olan 6 9s PLacly PLUS, Sold) € Sail ai) pLaJl aad! ST ped IN ald!  Wu, Sy Les L SIDA 83459 Gas OI] SBS ep BSS sks J, Ll ol bs ayo V5 pul 5) persion  Ch do ludh I Lise  iall Las YI Lie Lb Lal ge (Se ol pad) EU 3s dona idl Bp Wl 0d  loan gles oly «pL! ih Wl enc) lie Cad clad! oS OI LT € Gadsss glow JS ln LE suis  seus gl als) Liston Gas ads Wl Luis, Jleel 5151 55 rlus als 11559 Au ln | glo ps Jb  ciel henley Wadd Old) Je 5e pahalls B30 dull 5 Lal  SEI BE AS Catal) en Vol To er IT ati lal gon, Ho ET  CB 93 seb ot Ge pepe Lal gp All any II Ji 5 AIT LC Lead les pany Gel ns  eb 35h. Ll Ladies asl) Le opal] Jhb las), 3, am ode WIL le Eli ly GE  pal Ploslatiss POU PCT | Mr VOCT | IE JSP 55 Lu ABUS LAIT S| EVO S SAIT Sens 05 8 BS  orn py pi SU Ba 55 dons 1 Hens UNDE, ns Jl pi Lod LIU as os Hen  cel lanl ue ER IR Er FT TE GR TE TB SI 5 li à Ler TEEN  ol L—al phe al aly adl ous eH edb Jladl Jo asl LaS als 55 US Gex 0  L>LiS gga Jolly sl 6 (lad) mill Bm Flas ge de Lis] las oo pubis Ja, 100 LS i  der da Me JL YN Los 55 3 als Spb aul gol sil  BALE Age Daw Why Aya] 5, Lind) yes JL Il y Baise Li 51 us *Lyé Lu) aurai ad] (5 2s NÉ  os + Kia Silly 5 Lod led) ley iia) 5, let) Jo Lait 5 Ge pond! 51 de Ge  Salle Yad) lho ib 06,1 pal val A5 pall Ge Ladle al gas pion poll 192  URE. {] cr UU PETITE DA CON SIRES DICAPORI- TOE SOR VON WEP 2 LE PAE)  LEY dise Bs Jy al) 5e Let Gy Lie perl, ll Jet) Jo ity ce Bide Big al) Big yo!  ale 56 L Glas NE L'iplay Lui ds (55 omy ote 3) SVT AE ae ly cg Las Vy ASE  opty Ball ge gad I Line Lip Yaz Vy 3, loi) 3S, cabot ol He  plete 55 LIL Sew Ale lt gee val Glo pole El dew «put dl ue 1002  No plo pu ll (Se Gly tie el) ll BLS Gus pia) B20) IDs € pad WEIL  Eri pm ice Le, rats 6 8 ly 22 5 AN oil Lon V1 age Ngo of es à Des  spas pail) gpl petal ni iy Le lel pdt) pons cb te guel 5 8 JT don cB  daily pu bis San Lai (806 ala) go pid J load) cuil img « sb BB Gr  CB Vo Je (Sm loge 6 lly plaid) Ball Yim SEG 2
398      JUNTA SES tre bol gel > 450 Last « Ile Gla cous sde VA débile ie Lg ly il plc oy BE LH pencil gs crée MI Cs yi Ls so wd ¥ Sab eens GE BUI pe ALAN 05.42 oy (Ll ad] 5 rally dla hms Lalas oo wy yo Bogle pd re ee SE (Lala ds LES LShasl wos ge Less L Jy ad) pas GDS SIN Gold) Land) ope LaJl pip md le led ladle log te ge SAS atl 95 pei pod) Jy Wl Aa, is Ce Sob à ol! oe abel bop la se sn aon LS USSR | SRR 390 Ge 0,4] line ol à Boing Golonty BUS Ga Gal op 10 0 ho Lg nL (iit Gril ol del, LL allah Temi Bll blot] of oil nt lo SU LI 200 dre Vn
45e) ail ode ws ua  HE Apt Uirmand Mian) Bedidinns Bly uy 05 PGI er lag’ ote ty is sy “JY  die silted pal oo oll 5 Ol ova ce d'Al ball dendl i 51509 « 0/p)4  deity + Be BI El bod JA Yih, Bhs nds « Casa] ed Simi ay D pled! ad)  ipl] pbs Mets peony + Gab Jy ul) JLT pnt bo Lam LC lai ly Sil! ERE IN 03 a  do Yabo Bbl, Blot) fp BB gig See pS rh dl onl gy a >/¢) 4 trill By Bal di Lad) rss leans! Le 7019 HU Lips loss le Un Dall comp pas Bolg ppc lilly all 55 Lda lati Lessa VI ns JL Gb Loulou (Sally Gaby)!
28.0 mad oi 0 DA dre all Lalanlia ly Bian] hole + Cla Las  dad] Aa aps ge Ladle lil uy olasl JS ly olasY LU odd 3, ile lo Las II  NEE cd Ly ols dal) BA) gad 3, idle loss YT Al I Lad ols VI pissy 4  tr 02 dec bh Last 5 Lebo GDS] le Lau Ge Me YI AYN ES oo Lol Lo dns Gaga]  CECE are, WORN Bi WON IF] TT Sul sn, Lol rad A NCOP | FCS GEI 9G OP BR Le  EE M RP JN EEE eo Ft Be re er a AA  HR goss» polos AL ALU Gyn) AI Gad) Jy ally Spl) tien pas Bigpond) GS à, Lai)
23s A (hdd l Ep) US ho ge Finale aide BS Voll ip Lor Ty Soil)  reed ad peint ent 5 pine Il ls I, Soil) él ns
3S) slo Le Sis dd abso 0) oS « LSI 15 Jie ool Sigal) pled) andl sy oF Gow 8)  abel ode JIC 135 y so Jbas JI ay osidl GO Lol asad) 509 Sy  BEL Gad NO WCU | SL FON | | BANG ILE INC EI Br BB 0) OS  ol ial Jy lg pol Lyi easy Loo, bye pass geanddlly 2 Slit Ge bestia YI Se  Le or le IT SAIT Le oe A L3H G1 pond ai Lo GAIN Jy tl #135 VII al) Ge ond  dS sol wl + aol il dal Ln id) bed! page bs VV odin Lai € Li pd ais go Lidl ogni)  Ee lal sola YI ssl cll à sual Ass 51, ply p ite per Glial) 5e OL 051 JN Hoe  pbs bye GUS Gym ye undid) 55 LS Lg 9 Salon) 5) 6 ps + poladly BBE Bell Glo alu Sas]  Ome LS 5151 0 BY ya) ada Ups BY GS Ag sl Le all Js oly ge Ld)  Tole yat] 505 ld by Ne gp Beall LT Y 6 6 plan ly Lu YI Gh pli by genni)  lll pnt omso Wily. Lali dm pe ge Le € oly omdly aod) gid Bud date Ls Bc ask  « AAA hais ue a by lati Yh gly aad! 5 cli JU coed) Lads sd Le copy SN  body spanadl said sy Lins] 5 La « Le das épis Que AE Es goad! gd ul Ÿ +33)  Dhs Salt doy Je ltd ip bom gy ob Winilinin of Laportil ol ls Bluse!  Oar 559 plan, JULY contd! Vim oY Gow 3 etd V gg cat) plead) Jill da, 0 J) anand]  * pl dise boa =) p= 15s ç ps ls  Bal blé palo Y GEST 7 Le AIS Lans Lu Lépiliyir 3 doles LS Yon  i,Soll pad) andl 5 51e bells le Judo ALI Jah op YING op By BL Lei
55 bal pedal 3 A I) Bing Ori Va ST Al 5 see Et V1/p)4 ÿ  JS 5 45 ds, da lis S5$. OS y 422 old, dl 21 6 Loli] oa 3 Gas bal SR ELA  = Aya 8 lly Seed) li, Jigs  Spe Is a Say 353) 5) Sr gpa pple ent! (S555 NEE LOY [SP JLo TR q.  + Sigal Bere Ge ey repeal] OLN lO GUL vey PL Gl Lays all la  ah + ord gate Ly Bnd) M im Cas 1S Bs pies oF I + pond ly Galiedly alle yy,  ladle Lol llth ad OS pm ob #94) oil JS VC DOWRY LS! Co OÙ vas LS al 3 ll ci  Lest 3 8pm délai Le 4 40I GO «oS = à de (Sabie CL L55 3 sil Ile 15 ce  ia ge Lei ae pe LST pe ge Imad 1 ll ile i) te le is sl
3-54 SA Eye OI yy Al apes dsl GUN 19/0 8 S)1F as Ge Belial) Lal ull oS Sabu  vi bal aga) ALI 55 BSBEIL, Gall bused! 55 deed] pew Glo D LAS SLY 01 lal ug)  oS Ge y ét oF 0p BS + ln yes bo 85pomad Bedi) 6) Lio Sup add Crus oS ibd 0d 7e  eS «Batol pe WV Bn 1, 509 (Sly fe pis Ty 6 penn pleat sisi eV ens tony Beas, SR
515 Ge Geld! (Spat 0 dil Lol Luo YI IS pa Lida SA II 6 50 LS alin JL wut Gl  ily JS saa an, aed as Bed) Gob SI Jas Ud) asad Sis bday, 5 Il YI ellis  as ly dem 1 plo Tl 31 fp Val 8 oneal LÉ Ge 55 eis sll se L PLY  lis cay (51 58 pall Gb te oo OL BE Ge bid et hid pen ©) 1 Slain Go bli ol ob  Jy É pS Ses ye pHNILS J IS Gly + 30s) Ge Lol se Lis Wl pe alll Lusk i)  Sal en SER er Se Be A Re PR SAR IE TL PRR BMWA PM RBC LS . pla Flos Tiger 5 as Viral ipod Gal LL oo Gand] GS Llu opi SAS 5  of y bls gpm Lil dual pubs 5 oo US LL Lads Son 55 Lams) oh Linslogio j  Jal LL #55 dy piatly doll Contd) pan LLiS #19 aduladl LL LES *15 pes aay pjs JS cs  ll, . älylull Ls (589 dyad) LL 58 « God LL 55 Ladle JS oY Geld) Jo edi)  LA l bip BY bea 5 dU p Ld 500 Vie pl ¥ pli up mid) le Billy pond gui € pen)  «da bill  NY
(20.1) M. NAJI (Qatar). - (Traduit de l'arabe. )  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Messieurs les chefs et membres des déléga-  tions, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi, au nom de l'Etat du Qatar, de me joindre à mes collègues  pour vous présenter mes félicitations personnelles et celles de mon pays à l'occasion de votre élection à  la présidence de la dix-neuvième session et d'exprimer notre joie pour ce choix judicieux, Je suis convaincu  que, sous votre direction et celle des vice-présidents et des présidents de commissions, cette importante  réunion sera couronnée de succès, que nous parviendrons ensemble à des résultats positifs et que nous  adopterons des résolutions qui contribueront à enrichir les activités de l'Organisation et l'aideront à  atteindre les nobles objectifs qu'elle s'est fixés pour répandre l'éducation, la culture et la science au pro-  fit de la paix mondiale et du bien-être de l'humanité,
(20.2) Messieurs, nous sommes profondément affligés que notre délégation n'aitplus à sa tête S, Exc. Cheikh  Qassim ben Hamad Al-thani, ancien ministre de l'éducation et de la jeunesse, qui est décédé le 17 juillet  dernier, laissant un vide immense et un poste qu'il avait occupé avec distinction durant les vingt dernières  années, alors qu'il dirigeait notre ministère. Au nom de la délégation du Qatar, nous remercions chaleureu-  sement le Directeur général de l'Organisation, les ministres de l'éducation des différents pays du monde  et tous les collègues qui nous ont adressé des télégrammes ou des lettres de condoléances,
(20.3) Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et messieurs, c'est pour nous un grand honneur que la Conférence  ait lieu en Afrique, berceau de la civilisation, et qu'elle ait reçu l'hospitalité du Kenya, qui fait partie du  Tiers Monde auquel nous appartenons. C'est également un insigne honneur que la Conférence ait été inau-  gurée par un grand homme d'Etat africain et un des leaders des mouvements de libération du monde, le  président militant Jomo Kenyatta, dont le nom est devenu une légende immortelle qu'on se répète d'une  génération à l'autre.
(20,4) L'Afrique n'est pas étrangère au monde arabe ; des relations existent depuis les temps les plus  reculés entre les civilisations arabo-islamique et africaine, et les échanges commerciaux entre les deux  régions ont toujours été un moyen de rapprochement culturel et intellectuel. Actuellement, les Arabes con-  sidèrent que la solidarité arabo-africaine est un des piliers essentiels de leur politique dans les domaines  culturel, social, économique et politique. Mon pays s'est efforcé, depuis qu'il a accédé à l'indépendance,  de renforcer ses liens de coopération avec de nombreux pays africains amis ; il a procédé à un échange de  représentation diplomatique avec plusieurs Etats africains, a conclu des accords culturels et économiques ;  le nombre des étudiants africains reçus dans nos écoles et instituts a triplé en deux ans ; et le commerce  et les contacts se sont intensifiés entre nous.
(20.5) Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, nous pourrions parler longuement des réalisations  de notre pays dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la culture et de la science, depuis la fin de la dix-  huitième session jusqu'au début de celle ci ; elles témoignent du grand intérêt que l'Etat manifeste - 5  direction de S, A, Cheikh Khalifa ben Hamad Al-Thani, le prince régnant - pour l'éducation, et montrent  combien il est convaincu de l'importance de l'élément humain convenablement formé, Il serait trop Jus  d'entrer dans les détails à ce sujet ; pour ne pas abuser de votre temps, je vous prie donc de bien vouloir  consulter le rapport détaillé sur nos réalisations dans les domaines de l'éducation, qui vous sera distribué  au cours de la présente session.  ous la
(20.6) Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, nous avons 6  de M, Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, directeur général de l'Organisation,  campagne qu'il a dû affronter à la suite de notre dernière session,  coup d'amertume de la campagne violente et injuste qui a été menée  raison qu'elle s'est rangée aux côtés du droit et à voulu demander des comptes à un membre qui a violé  ses résolutions, s'est rebellé contre son autorité et s'est écarté de ses objectifs, Le presser énéral a  également évoqué le blocus financier imposé par certains pays, qui ont refusé a verser leur train  ou en ont réduit le montant. Si certains pays libres ne s'étaient pas empressés d'accorder des prêts à l'Organisation, de nombreux projets exécutés dans le Tiers Monde auraient été compromis. Je saisis  cette occasion pour saluer, du haut de cette tribune, le directeur général, M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow  qui a su - grâce à sa profonde foi en Dieu et dans les grands principes et les objectifs de votre auguste,  Organisation, et par sa patience, sa compétence, son courage et sa valeur - traverser avec succès la période la plus critique que l'Unesco ait connue depuis sa création, C'est grâce à lui que les complots exté-  rieurs et intérieurs, ourdis contre cette illustre Organisation, ont échoué,  couté avec consternation l'exposé  sur les immenses difficultés et la  Le Directeur général a parlé avec beau-  contre l'Organisation pour la seule
(20.7) Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, la délégation de mon pays a procédé à une étude  détaillée des documents 19 C/4 et 19 C/5. Elle apprécie le grand effort qui a présidé à leur élaboration  et tient à souligner certains aspects positifs pour lesquels il convient de féliciter le Directeur général.  Pour la première fois dans l'histoire de l'Unesco, un projet à moyen terme a été élaboré pour six ans, Le  document témoigne d'une réflexion profonde et du souci de prendre en considération les besoins des peuples  et les espoirs des Etats en développement. En examinant la présentation du projet de programme et de  budget (doc, 19 C/5), nous constatons qu'elle est conforme à l'esprit et à la méthode du projet de plan à  moyen terme (doc, 19 C/4). Toutefois, nous notons que le document 19 C/4 prévoit une diminution des  crédits alloués aux mouvements de libération nationale pour les aider à lutter contre le colonialisme et  leur permettre de jouir de leur droit à l'autodétermination, L'on devrait, au contraire, augmenter ces  crédits, conformément aux objectifs de l'Organisation en ce qui concerne la sauvegarde des droits de  l'homme, Lorsque les peuples en question auront accédé à l'indépendance, comme nous l'espérons, il ne  devrait pas en résulter une réduction des crédits, car ceux-ci pourraient être alloués aux pays nouvelle-  ment indépendants et qui ont plus que d'autres besoin d'assistance,
(20.8) En ce qui concerne le Projet de programme et de budget (doc, 19 C/5), nous remarquons la modicité  des crédits alloués à la jeunesse, à laquelle l'Unesco n'a commencé à s'intéresser qu'en 1968, L'Organisa-  tion aurait dû, au contraire, augmenter ces crédits pour élaborer des programmes permettant de former  des jeunes dirigeants capables d'assumer des responsabilités à l'avenir et de promouvoir les valeurs parmi  la jeunesse mondiale,
(20.9) Nous désirons également attirer l'attention sur les faibles crédits alloués aux programmes concer-  nant la culture arabe, qui ne concerne pas seulement la nation arabe mais toute la nation islamique, dans  les divers Etats d'Afrique et d'Asie, et qui a joué un rôle essentiel dans l'origine des cultures modernes.  Nous constatons avec beaucoup de regret que les crédits affectés à cette fin par l'Unesco sont très inférieurs  à ceux qui sont alloués aux autres cultures. Nous ne saurions oublier à cet égard l'initiative positive que  l'Unesco a prise en créant le Comité consultatif pour la culture arabe, qui groupe des représentants de  l'Unesco, des Etats arabes et de l'Organisation arabe pour l'éducation, la culture et la science. Nous  demandons à l'Unesco de publier rapidement un livre sur l'Islam pour répondre aux calomnies contenues  dans l'Histoire culturelle et scientifique de 1'humanité", qui a été publiée sous son patronage, et dont les  mensonges ont vivement affligé des millions de musulmans dans le monde entier. Le Directeur général  avait déjà promis de publier ce livre, mais il est regrettable que la bureaucratie et la routine stérile dont  nous souffrons à l'Unesco aient retardé sa parution jusqu'à présent,
(20.10) Messieurs, le déséquilibre du système économique mondial actuel est dû essentiellement au colo-  nialisme et à la guerre. Le colonialisme est arrivé à saigner les peuples à blanc et à détruire leurs  ressources ; les guerres ont accablé les petits Etats, qui ont dû verser leur sang et payer tribut aux grandes  puissances, génératrices des guerres. Les crises que traverse le monde capitaliste accablent les pays en  développement, qui en paient le prix, alors que ces crises sont dues à la politique menée par les Etats  capitalistes. Tout cela a élargi le fossé qui sépare le monde développé du monde en développement ou  sous-développé, et a ébranlé le système économique mondial, avec toutesles répercussions que l'on sait  sur l'éducation, la culture et la science, Il est indubitable que l'Unesco a un rôle important à jouer pour  réduire ce fossé en développant les programmes, en introduisant la technologie moderne et en formant les  cadres des pays en développement. Mais l'instauration de la paix entre ces peuples et le respect des droits  de l'homme sont une tâche plus noble, car le développement ne peut être assuré dans la sécurité sans la  paix. Tant que les peuples ne mèneront pas une vie exempte de danger et tranquille, ils seront la proie des  forces de l'injustice et de l'agression, ce qui aggrave leur sous-développement. Les pays en développement  ont payé un lourd tribut à cause des guerres qui leur ont été imposées et de la lutte armée qu'ils ont dû  soutenir contre l'agression, le colonialisme et le racisme abject qui les accompagne,
(20,11) 11 est vraiment affligeant de voir près de nous, ici même en Afrique, que la discrimination raciale  et le colonialisme sévissent sous leurs formes les plus affreuses, comme c'est le cas en Afrique du Sud,  en Rhodésie et ailleurs. L'oppression colonialiste est allée même jusqu'au massacre collectif de la popu-  lation de Soweto pour la seule raison qu'elle réclamait, pour sa jeunesse, une éducation nationale qui pré-  serverait sa culture et son patrimoine et sauvegarderait ses croyances,
(20.12) La population autochtone de la Palestine occupée est soumise aux mêmes souffrances que celle de  l'Afrique du Sud, de la Rhodésie et d'autres pays. La preuve la plus éclatante en est donnée dans un rapport  du Directeur général de l'Unesco (doc. 19 C/16), qui affirme que la population des territoires arabes  occupés ne jouit pas du droit inaliénable à une éducation nationale ni du droit imprescriptible à une vie cul-  turelle nationale, Ce qui exige l'adoption, par la Conférence,d'un document historique condamnant toutes  les formes de discrimination raciale et d'apartheid.
(20.13) Messieurs, j'aurais bien voulu ne pas abuser de votre temps précieux en abordant une question  au sujet de laquelle la Conférence générale a déjà adopté, lors de sa dernière session, la résolution his-  torique 3.437, qui a condamné l'entité sioniste et l'a privée de l'assistance de L'Organisation dans les do-  maines de l'éducation, de la culture et de la science, tant qu'elle ne respecterait pas scrupuleusement les  résolutions de l'Unesco et de l'ONU relatives à Jérusalem, Mais je suis obligé d'en parler, En effet, nous  espérions que l'entité israélienne se rendrait à la raison, qu'elle reviendrait de ses égarements et se
401   conformerait à la volonté du monde, telle qu'elle s'exprime dans les résolutions des Nations Unies et à  votre Organisation, Malheureusement, son attitude n'a pas changé, ce qui nous conduit à insister Tn  ment sur la nécessité de respecter les résolutions adoptées par la Conférence générale à sa précédente  session. De même, nous nous élevons contre les efforts déployés par certains pour mettre fin à son iso  ment en préparant son rattachement à un groupe. Or, qu'est-ce qui a changé dans l'attitude de l'entité .  sioniste ? Rien . Pourquoi vouloir donc la protéger, couvrir ses actions et fermer les yeux sur ses vio-  lations ? Toutes les lois stipulent que le fait de laisser agir un criminel est un acte répréhensible, Nous  avons mis le voleur à la porte, et le voilà quirentre par la fenêtre, Quoiqu'il en soit, la question est  entre les mains de cette auguste assemblée, qui doit se prononcer sur les violations persistantes d'Israg]  et les mesures à prendre à cet égard, Je suis certain que vous vous rangerez toujours aux côtés du droit  car le droit et la liberté forment, partout dans le monde, un tout indivisible, qu'il s'agisse de l'Afrique 3  du Sud, de la Rhodésie, de Djibouti, etc. Il en est de même pour la Palestine arabe. Nous sommes résolus  à défendre avec la plus grande fermeté nos justes causes, ainsi que celles de tous les peuples du Tiers  Monde qui sont opprimés et soumis à l'injustice, car il s'agit dans tous ces cas de causes concernant la  justice, la liberté et l'égalité. Avec une égale fermeté, nous sommes déterminés à coopérer pleinement  en vue du succès de cette importante Conférence, qui se tient pour la première fois sur l'illustre continent  africain,
21. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the head of the delegation of Qatar, and I now call on  Mrs. Shirley Field-Ridley, Minister of Education and Culture, head of the delegation of Guyana
22.1 Mrs. FIELD-RIDLEY (Guyana):  Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, Mr. Chairman of the Executive Board, distinguished  colleagues, friends and comrades: I would like to convey to this distinguished assembly the wishes  of my Prime Minister, Forbes Burnham, for the success of its deliberations - success which, as  I see it, Mr. President, has been made more certain by your election to the chair of this session  My delegation has already had cause to admire the way in which you have conducted our delibera-  tions and the expedition with which you have discharged your task. I would like also to say a word  of welcome to the new Member States, particularly since two of them are countries within my  region. My delegation looks forward to working closely with the delegations of these countries at  the General Conference of Unesco.
22.2 Mr. President, this nineteenth session of the General Conference convenes at a moment of  profound challenge to the Organization itself, as well as to the relations between member nations,  but because we meet here as equal partners there is hope. During the past two years we have seen  long-established empires crumbling. At this very moment, in this very continent of Africa, the  struggle for freedom is being waged violently against the very heart and citadel of colonialist op-  pression. Indeed, the thirst for freedom has gained a new momentum. The revolution in science  and technology has acquired awe-inspiring proportions as mankind increases its mastery over its  environment. Phenomenal advances in communication have shrunk our once vast planet to a degree  hardly thought possible. Yet, formidable as these advances in science and technology may be,  famine and disease continue to take their toll of human lives, and to add to the world's already  grievous burden of human suffering, The mechanisms devised after the close of World War II for  the management of the world's financial resources have failed and nations continue to grope for a  way out of the ensuing crisis. The gap between the rich nations and the poor nations continues to  widen. An increased awareness of the finiteness of our planetary resources has led to the adoption  of a number of far-reaching measures governing the ownership, control and exploitation of these  resources.
22,3 Mr, President, the underdeveloped nations of the world have constituted themselves into a  formidable force for change with respect to the presentunequal distribution of the world's wealth -  not only in their relations with the developed world, but also in their relations among themselves.  In many ways, these changes have taken place outside the international structures needed to con-  tain or monitor their effects and for that reason they may constitute threats to the peace of the  world. Within recent times the increasing tempo of the arms race which is taking place in total  disregard of the relevant decisions of the United Nations system has placed peace in an even more  precarious balance. This situation poses a challenge to Unesco, to our collective commitment to  the principles and purposes of the Organization. That challenge demands a particular kind of  response from our Organization,
22.4 Mr. President, the Guyana delegation would like sincerely to congratulate the Director-  General on his brilliant analysis of the international world order and on his identification of the  role that Unesco has to play in that changing world situation, Underlying the Director-General's  entire thesis was the concept that development is about people and from that standpoint must be  seen the issues that affect the world, Whether we are talking about Unesco's role in the preserva:  tion of world peace, or its input into the establishment of the new international economic order, OF  the devising of cultural and communication policies, whether we are talking about new emphases Of  science and technology or about the recovery or preservation of cultural property, we are funda-  mentally talking about the domination of man by man and about ways and means to end this domina-  tion and correct the imbalances that such domination has brought. We of the developing world  have lived only too closely under the shadow of this domination, be it political domination, cultural  domination or technological domination, and therefore we applaud the forthright position taken by  the Director-General and by the Executive Board in commending to us for adoption positive action  on these issues,
92.5 Mr. President, one of the critical issues to which Unesco has turned its attention as a  Specialized Agency of the United Nations is the need for the establishment of a new international  economic order. For it will be appreciated that the creation of such an order is of cardinal  importance in bringing to an end cultural as well as economic domination. The unjust economic  system imposed upon the world by the European powers has been bolstered by a complementary  network of cultural deprivation and domination. For economic domination survived on conformity  to standards and values alien to the societies of the dominated countries. Economic domination -  and this was perhaps the most unfortunate aspect of it all - meant the complete and effective con-  trol of men's minds. We believe that it is only when economic relations are established on a basis  of justice and equality among men and States that we will be able to realize our cultural identities.
22.6 Mr. President, as is done so often in these days, we are returning now to fundamental prin-  ciples, Itis stated in the Constitution of Unesco that wars begin in the minds of men. Unesco  must continue to emphasize that the spiralling arms race diverts much-needed resources from  economic development. Equally essential is it to stress the need to accept political and cultural  diversity. It is important that those who were once culturally and politically dominant, understand  that our world is more diversified and that each nation has the right, enshrined in the Charter of  the United Nations, to determine not only its own political system but its own cultural system.  Mr, President, there is a fundamental truth which this body is aware of, and that is that the pres-  ‘ent economic order was bolstered by a cultural and technological ordering of the world which has  denied to the emerging States the opportunity to realize their own cultural identities. Territories  were despoiled of their works of art, their historic treasures, the documentation in which was  locked the understanding of their own being. To find the records of our own past in Guyana - ex-  colony that we are - our scholars must journey to The Hague, to London and even to the Library of  Congress in Washington, Mr, President, I came to this august meeting after attending a meeting  of the International Festival Committee, a Committee of which you yourself have been a distin-  guished Vice-President. To that Committee is entrusted the planning of the Second World Festival  of Black and African Arts and Culture. As you are aware, the symbol of the Festival is the Benin  Head which does not reside in Nigeria, nor even in the developing world; it is to be found among  the art treasures of the developed world, It is indeed heartening that before this session of the  General Conference, and as a result of the hard work of Member States, we have before us recom-  mendations pointing the way for the restoration of works of art and expressions of our culture, for  the preservation of our cultural heritage and for safeguarding the future existence in their rightful  places of these indices of our national identity - proposals which could yet lead to a sharing on a  basis of the mutuality of our cultural wealth. Through Unesco, then, Mr. President, we have an  opportunity to establish a new international cultural order based on self-knowledge, self-respect  and mutuality in our dealings with each other.
22.7 Itis true that, for some countries, some of the proposals embodied in the Draft Plan will  seem unreal at the present time, so severe have been the effects of colonialism or war on their  own self-image. For example, the recommendation that the people at large have free and demo-  cratic access to culture and participate actively in the cultural life of society is couched in language  that is unreal to a country struggling with the social effects of colonialism some of whichare; the  creation of States based on multi-ethnicity whose constituent cultures bear little or no relationship  to each other; the degradation or devaluation of such cultures under a colonial system, accompanied  by varying degrees of acculturation to imperialist values; the consequent need for deculturation and  mobilization of the national will to grapple with the problem of self-image. Because of the history  of such countries - and Guyana is an example of this - culture in such societies is inherently pro-  letarian and as a result the concept of the ''people at large’ embodied in this resolution needs  perhaps to be reconsidered in order to achieve the results envisioned by the resolution.
22.8 Having said this, Mr. President, let me also say that there are some forms of cultural ex-  pression where the resolution has immediate relevancy such as, perhaps, in the areas of literature  and the visual arts which, in terms of my country; are basically intrusive forms and so tied to  some degree to extra-territorial parent forms. Considering that access to culture and participa-  tion in cultural life are two aspects of the same thing, the poor publishing facilities of my region  do constitute an inhibition and promote an over-dependence on published works emanating from  developed societies, works geared for those developed societies though marketed, inter alia, in  the developing world. This dependency in our cultural life on the developed world brought, of  course, an acceptance of the ethics, the values and the concepts of the developed world without  any real examination of their relevance to the societies to which they were exported. This cultural  dependency brought a demand for acculturation which, translated into economic terms, provided  the underpinning for the structure of the present international economic order. If we then are to  see the creation of a new international economic order, the cultural base on which the former .  dependency rested must be effectively removed. In any case, Unesco's charge to end colonialism  and racism demands the acknowledgement that each State must seek its own cultural identity free  from domination by external powers and external values. In order to give strength to this cultural  independence, the people of our territories must have access to knowledge and information through  the educational system as well as through the communications network - both the traditional media  and the mass media,  ood very clearly that development means nothing 22.9 Mr, President, we'in Guyana have underst lo ;  If that is so then the provision of educational oppor- unless it means the development of our people.
403   tunities for all is crucial, and we are heartened by the emphasis given to this aspect of education  by the Draft Programme and Budget for 1977-1978. Here again we are talking about Providing the  base on which a new world order must rest. For countries like Guyana, established approaches to  education bore no relation to national needs but rather education was yet another instrument of  colonialism, another area of reinforcement for the old international economic order. As in many  other developing countries, we in Guyana have found that it was necessary to enumerate national  goals and relevant educational objectives, including values, to ensure clarity of direction and to  avoid the subjective interpretations and educational actions which could possibly have resulted,  From a position where education was an élitist preo ccupation, planning must now attempt to ensure  as far as possible that equality of opportunity is a reality. To this end many governments, like  ours, have taken responsibility for education from nursery school to university level, making pro.  vision for early childhood education, the main function of which we see as being to socialize the  child in its own environment and to equip the child to take advantage of the educational experiences  offered at subsequent levels. All education has been made free to the student and basic texthooks  are supplied to each learner; co-education has become a way of life and attention is being paid to  the education of the handicapped and the deviant, It is a source of great pride to find that this  approach receives endorsement in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1977-1978, for to attempt  a policy of this sort imposes a great but necessary strain on countries where the choice of prior-  ities is a cruel element of life.
22.10 Education to equip each citizen to live in a world of equals is a crushing task for a country  grappling with the economics of poverty and a legacy of want. But we believe that it is only by  strengthening the individual that we can safely entrust to the world a new international order and  it is only by freeing men from the domination of others - political, economic and intellectual -  that freedom will truly result. That is why, Mr. President, the Guyana delegation believes that  the time has come for a serious look at the flow of information in this world of ours. In spite of  the vilification it has received from some quarters, we believe that the Unesco-sponsored Inter-  governmental Conference on Communication Policies in Latin America and the Caribbean indicated  the direction in which we should go. Because this issue has been the subject of a degree of con-  troversy I would like to state with some clarity, although with brevity, the position of Guyana on  this issue. We in Guyana feel that the communication system within a country should not only fit  into its socio-political and cultural systems but should also serve and promote the interests,  especially the developmental interests, of the country in which it exists. Like many other coun-  tries represented in this hall - and, indeed, the Director-General himself formulated the concept -  Guyana regards the communication media as part of the vital resources in our society. And we  feel that if the scarce media resources are to be utilized and deployed for the optimum benefit of  our people, then the mass media must be owned and controlled within the national borders within  which they operate. This is the premise that informs our communication policy formulation, In  Guyana where public and privately owned broadcasting services operate side by side, we see the  wisdom of government having exercised the right and the responsibility to own sections of the media,  The State also has a responsibility, as the central development co-ordinating agency and final  decision-maker on things national, to formulate, in appropriate consultation with the people, a  policy for the media so that they become an instructive link between the government and the people,  and play a much more important role than they have done in the colonial past in mobilizing the  citizens for the devel opment of their country. From experience, we do not think that national  development can be speedily advanced in any newly-independent country if we leave media owner-  ship to chance and to foreign, profit-oriented systems. In terms of the international communica-  tions network, their one-way flow has already been pointed out to this assembly, and the power and  resources at their command, the facility with which they can be mobilized on behalf of power blocks  has been illustrated even in action directed against this august body itself. It is this uneven flow  which has caused the non-aligned nations to move for the establishment of a news pool which will  to some extent ameliorate the present position.
22.11 At this point the Guyana delegation would like to congratulate, through you, Mr. President,  the Director-General and the Executive Board on the courageous and unflinching stand they took in  defence of the autonomy of this body against powerful nations and forces. That kind of courage will  ensure lasting respect for Unesco and its ultimate survival. As we have noted, the old political  structure of the world is changing and its effects must needs be felt in bodies such as this. When  Unesco is accused of being politicized, its accusers mistake, perhaps deliberately, the nature of  the issue. Unesco has always been influenced by political considerations, but political considera-  tions brought to bear as a result of a democratic process. There was a time when the old status  quo, reinforced as it was by the international economic, cultural and social order, gained ready  acceptance in world fora. That time is now past; now political considerations are still brought to  bear on issues but there is no longer that same kind of political consensus. A new world has been  born, with new values and new cultural norms; those who supported the old order are being chal-  lenged to come to terms with new realities and so decisions democratically taken might well offend  those who seek to cling to out-worn and effete systems. We must be vigilant, as the Director-  General has veen vigilant, lest they use unexpected pressures to force nations and organizations  along a beaten but pointless road. We in Guyana have applauded organizations like Unesco as they  defied pressures from powerful quarters to adjust the imbalances among nations, as they gave  help to liberation movements and showed concern for newly-independent States. The Guyana dele-  gation welcomes the continued inclusion of help to liberation movements and struggles against  colonialism and racism in the programme before us. We firmly believe that these twin monsters
404      of colonialism and racism must be fought and beaten on every front and that every technique must  be used to defeat them. That is why Guyana, with limited budgetary resources, has for some time  now been one of that ever-growing group of countries and organizations giving aid to the liberation  movements. That is why my country joined with pride in the historic withdrawal of the African  nations from the Montreal Olympic Games in 1976. Freedom will become a reality when we are  all prepared to match action to words. Only real freedom within the world context will guarantee  an active state of peace, not just freedom from war but a society, (as is explained in document
19 C/15 Annex 1) "based on equity, sovereign equality, independence, common interest and co-  operation among all States, irrespective of the economic and social system".
99.12 But there are those who oppose this attainment of peace, and as the Introduction to the  Draft Medium-Term Plan says "every individual conflict seriously threatens world peace in so  far as it is a manifestation of tensions and friction on a world-wide scale'. This very month, on
6 October to be precise, the unruffled calm of the Caribbean Sea was disturbed when a commercial  aircraft plunged into its waters carrying to their death seventy-three civilians. That aircraft had  innocent people on board travelling between country and country, some of them on missions of  goodwill, for among these passengers were six young Guyana students travelling to be trained as  doctors in the service of their people. Among the passengers were 16 Cuban sportsmen of world  renown returning from a triumphant tournament in Venezuela. There were five citizens of the  Democratic People's Republic of Korea on their way to Jamaica where a cultural exhibition was  being mounted - all of them were ambassadors in the cause which has brought us here today, but  their lives were cut short by a bomb placed on that aircraft. A terrorist organization operating  out of Miami has claimed responsibility for this gruesome act. They stand condemned before the  world and we too at this nineteenth session of the General Conference of Unesco must recognize  that groups like these exist to destroy the work which brings us here and we must raise our voices  to condemn them and those who give them succour.
22,13 Mr. President, my delegation believes that the Draft Medium-Term Plan and the Draft Pro-  gramme and Budget for 1977-1978 and indeed the general philosophy of Unesco are reflective of  this Organization's commitment to helping in the creation of conditions conducive to the elimination  of decaying structures of dominance, whether they be economic, political or cultural. Mr. Presi-  dent, these practical programmes require the dedicated and unflinching support of all Member  States of Unesco, especially those States with the greatest capacity to support them.
22,14 May I in closing, Mr. President, pledge to you the fullest co-operation of the Guyana dele-  gation in the execution of the task before you. May I also pledge our fullest support to the Director-  General in the positive stand he has taken. May I promise from Guyana vibrant co-operation with  Unesco. Thank you.
23, The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank the head of the delegation of Guyana for her speech,  and to announce that the first speaker this afternoon will be Mrs. Jôboru, the head of the delegation  of Hungary.  The meeting rose at 1. 30 p. m.  La séance est levée à 13 h, 30  Se levanta la sesion a las 13. 30
3ace anne 3akpsiBaercs B 13.30  RON | de GÈNE ES Il) Su IN| It OA | Be OW PN ROWE