Twentieth plenary meeting
5 November 1976 at 3 p.m.  President: Mr. TOWEETT (Kenya)  and Mr. WIJEKULASURIYA (Sri Lanka)  Vingtième séance plénière
5 HOs16pst 1976 r. B 15 yu,  Ilpexcezarens: r-u TOYOTT (Kens)
1 r-H BUXEKYJIACYPUS (Ipn Janxa)  aA IE  se oy as) y qv GUI Gus / pies à  (Les ) Comps ddl: ss  (Edu) Ludo ns ally  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)/DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)/ DEBATE DE  POLITICA GENERAL (continuaciôn) /OBCY X IEHUE BONPOCOB OBEN HONHTHKH (npomonx. /  (esb) a ladlin Lud) bss i
1. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon H. E. Brigadier-General Ramon Miranda-Ampuero, Minister of Education and head  of the delegation of Peru.
(2.1) Brigadier-General MIRANDA AMPUERO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, distinguished delegates: I would first like to express our most sincere condolences  and fraternal concern at the disaster caused by the recent earthquake which has struck Indonesia. I ask  the distinguished delegates of Indonesia to convey to their Government and people the sympathy and sincere  desire to help of a country which is familiar with the sorrow and distress caused by this kind of natural  catastrophe.
(2.2) Permit me, Mr. President, to associate myself with the congratulations addressed to you upon your  election to the Presidency of the nineteenth session of the General Conference of Unesco; we feel certain  that under your skilful guidance this Conference will reach fruitful and practical conclusions in the difficult  and important matters before it.
(2.3) It is also a great source of satisfaction to our delegation to welcome the new Member States of Papua  New Guinea, Surinam, Grenada, Mozambique and Seychelles, to which Angola has just been added. These  States, which come to swell the great family of nations that is Unesco, will have to redouble their efforts to  achieve justice, peace and co-operation in the overall development of all our peoples. Our most heartfelt  greetings go to all participants at the nineteenth session of the General Conference. We also wish to offer  our congratulations and thanks to the brother people and Government of Kenya for their vigorous and effec-  tive assistance in organizing this international gathering and for the friendly hsopitality shown to us.
(2.4) Since this is the first time for twenty years that the General Conference is meeting away from Unesco  Headquarters and more particularly since we are gathering in a Third World country, we must not only  celebrate this event but reflect upon its significance, going deeper than words that might be taken asamere  formality. And it is undoubtedly a new experience, of great value to the Organization, to hold this meeting  in a place where it can benefit and learn from the culture and life of a country which is associated with one  of the most important aspects of twentieth century history, the struggle for decolonization.
(2.5) We must reflect on the policy guidelines which, in the light of present-day world conditions, should  underlie our general debate. In the first place, it should be acknowledged that the major global problem of
760   our time is the establishment of an effective and genuine international communit  ignorance, hunger, over-population, pollution, violation of human rights se ie The grave problems of  solved if the nations were to establish a system of communal relations gover ee fy Ho gouldibe  than the exploitation of some by others and mutual respect rather than the he » Yi scopeau ss There is no international community without international justice and, as BE iki of the parties.  the Draft Medium- Term Plan, this can only be brought about by tackling an ts oe Directors aner] in  to be how to remove disparities whilst maintaining differences, how to pass from ae = es gobests  ence, which favours certain elements to the detriment of others, to an actively RE se  y",
(2.6) In the second place, it should be recognized that this meeting  marked by the inspiring presence of the Third World, which can h Ï Ë ; , elp not only t id i  towards the goal of the liberation of man, but to articulate a desire for HE es audoultire  patible with an international economic, political and cultural power structure which undermi HG ence, perpetuates injustice and complicates the establishment of peace. PRS er a.  through being held here, should be
(2.7) This brings us to a third point, which concerns the confronta  tion of Unesco. The confrontation of ideas, about which certain M  meetings, should be regarded as an inevitable fact of life, given the exi ing i 5  actions which benefit some to the detriment of others. ae i arn ae, his 2 in a forum in which real problems should not be concealed for mistaken cons +  we must avoid is sterile controversy between antagonistic ideological positio  there is a will for solidarity and a willingness to accept pluralism, in harmony with the spirit of a worldor ganization such as Unesco. Bickering between the governments of Member States should not contaminate ) the atmosphere of rationality and co-operation that ought to preside over the general policy debate makin it fruitful for the peoples of the world whom we here represent. This is the broad outline that we world es gest for the guidance of the general policy debate and its conclusions, which should contain firm and RE  guidelines on those controversial issues which undermine the Organization's prestige and its effectiveness  in the common cause.  tion of ideas and the so-called politiciza-  ember States have complained in recent  ) ary  iderations of diplomacy. What  ns, which are immutable, when
(2.8) The policy of the Revolutionary Government of the Armed Forces of Peru is concerned with building  a just and unified society through the structural transformation of Peruvian society. For eight years, an  effort has been made to lay the foundations for a type of development characterized by social justice,  nationalism and humanism; solidarity has been sought with other peoples struggling for the same ideals and  defending their intellectual autonomy and ideological independence. At this very moment, the Government  of my country is carrying out an analysis and evaluation of its achievements and methodology, in the light  of revolutionary objectives which remain unchanged. I feel sure that world public opinion, as represented  here, will accord my country the most objective attention and the fairest treatment, particularly as we are  faced, in the present world situation, with the onslaught of an economic crisis that can only be overcome by  internal sacrifice and the widest and most sympathetic international collaboration.
(2.9) With regard to the advances and achievements of educational reform, we consider it necessary to  comment briefly on a few points. During the last four years, an intense national dialogue has been taking  place, through conventional and non-conventional forms of communication, concerning the purpose and  scope of education in the service of Peruvian society. It has become increasingly clear that education is  a vital task for Peruvians, for their institutions and the national community as a whole, Reformed educa-  tion is increasingly coming to play a supporting role in the structural transformation and overall develop-  ment of the country. The far-reaching changes which are taking place in Peru increasingly require the  active support of education.
(2.10) The strategy of educational development accords priority to initial and in-service education for  workers. A significant advance is being made in this field. In the country's centres of employment, in-  struction units are being set up which serve as organizational models for the promotion and development  in these centres of educational services for workers at all levels, relying for this purpose on the widest  participation of workers in the management and operation of their chosen courses.
(2.11) During these four years of intensive effort devoted to the application of the reform, we have learned  a great deal through the direct comparison of theory with practice, of hypotheses with the national reality.  Some of our theoretical propositions have gradually developed as a result of our activities, our successes  and mistakes, our possibilities and our limitations. During the current year we have carried out an evalu-  ation of the application of educational reform. We have discovered gaps and shortcomings, faults of co-  ordination and also certain inconsistencies, but we have also received practical confirmation of the validity  and legitimacy of the essential principles of the educational reform. This evaluation is already being used  to draw up a corrective strategy while maintaining the organic continuity of the theoretical conceptions be-  hind our reform.
(2.12) We are making a continuous effort to democratize education in the broadest sense, not only through  a growing quantitative expansion of educational services, but through their qualitative sert as  special attention to those sectors of the population which previously had no opportunity to anal : fen Et  Particular emphasis is placed on developing a critical and creative attitude on the part of ve > a.  they will understand and analyse the national situation and find innovatory solutions leading to is en  ation. A considerable effort is being made, in a structurally significant way, to link EUR ur .  Inducements are constantly offered to bring about the broadest possible participation of the comm Ys  teachers and students, in the governance of education.  omising innovations of the educational reform  f the country by offering job opportunities to  iod of three years after basic education. In  by certain friendly countries. The greatest  ment of these schools. Up to now, the State  broader international co-operation and con-  me benefit to the international community.
(2.18) The higher vocational schools are one of the most pr  in Peru, since they fill a gap in the occupational structure o  young people who can rapidly learn a trade over an average per  this task we are happy to acknowledge the strong support given  challenge we face is the financing of the construction and equip  of Peru has made an enormous investment. We hope to obtain  sider that our experience in this practical matter could be of so  without any doubt,  i i is cational reform n Peru is, ;  i  munal educational ignifi hievements of th (2.14) One of the most significant achiev € fhroehout the country. The com  the process of nuclearization', which has now sprea
20 nucleus is a basic organizational unit covering a specific geographical area, within which there are educa-  tional centres and community facilities from which an effort is made to extract the maximum educational  use. A new awareness of community responsibility for the application of the reform is emerging in Peru,  an awareness which finds expression in an increasing participation in educational decisions, in the consid-  erable support that heads of families and the general public provide in solving the problems of the educa-  tional infrastructure and its maintenance, and in the encouraging participation of our people in activities  designed to promote culture and educational creativity. With enthusiasm and humility we offer the inter-  national community our national experience in the nuclearization process which, in spite of its limitations  and shortcomings, is the social laboratory in which the experiment with an educational community wider  than the formal school system is being tried out in practice.
(2.15) Inthe field of educational technology we are constantly striving to find national methods of implement.  ing non-conventional types of education, at different levels and in different ways. We are firmly convinced  that a more dynamic promotional effort by Unesco in the field of educational technology, especially in the  Third World countries, could result in the creation of an international data and information bank, which  would greatly assist all countries in their creative efforts to give vigorous support to non-conventional types  of education.
(2.16) We are convinced that, in spite of difficulties and the crisis we are undergoing as a result of the  present combination of circumstances, the proper social conditions for carrying out the educational reform  in Peru are being created. We know from our own experience that, unless society as a whole is changed,  good intentions and educational initiatives are not enough. It is obvious that Peru has undergone far-  reaching social change, which enables education better to develop its existing potential for advancing the  construction of the new society to which we aspire.
(2.17) With regard to the Peruvian position on some of the items included in the documents presented to  this General Conference, we shall refer to two only, document 19 C/4 which contains the Draft Medium-  Term Plan (1977-1982) and document 19 C/91 containing the Draft Declaration on Fundamental Principles  Governing the Use of the Mass Media.
(2.18) As far as the first document is concerned, it is essential to consider the purpose and future devel-  opment of medium-term planning, to take "an overall view' of the problems. The Director-General was  correct in viewing medium-term planning, which is being submitted to the General Conference for the  first time in its present form, within an overall view of the problems; and it is of truly fundamental impor-  tance that the realities of current world problems should have been situated, in so far as well-being is con-  cerned, in the growing gap between the few who are rich and the many who are so poor that their living con-  ditions have become humanly intolerable, not only from the ethical point of view but from that of the very  survival of large numbers of men, women and children. What matters is that, as a result of the unvarnished  statement of this reality by the Director-General and his frank analysis of its causes, which include the "in-  equitable terms of international trade! and the wastefulness and consumerism whereby "it is products and  material objects which ultimately arouse needs whereas, logically, it should be needs which determine  economic choices!', the fundamental question of the ''means and ends of development" is raised. It is idle  to draw up short- or medium-term plans without knowing exactly what is the goal. Development for develop-  ment's sake is a dangerous concept which can distort all action. We must now think in qualitative rather  than quantitative terms: what kind of society do we wish to construct? This is precisely what the Peruvian  revolutionary process considers necessary to give meaning to activities and programmes carried out both  in the educational and in the other social and productive sectors, since education must form an integral part  of a nationwide design for the creation of a new man and a new society. And this philosophy for the building  of the future must govern a process of growth and development which should not be considered as ends in  themselves or be left to follow their own dynamic or momentum of exponential growth "ad infinitum", since  the threat of external limits, such as the exhaustion of the earth's resources and the deterioration of the  environment, is becoming increasingly evident.
(2.19) With regard to document 19 C/91, we would like to repeat the position adopted by Peru at the eight-  eenth session of the General Conference with regard to the Draft Declaration on Fundamental Principles  Governing the Use of the Mass Media. The present document suffers from the same defect as the document  submitted to the previous General Conference. It does not contain provisions guaranteeing the creation of  genuinely national mass media, for‘it is not enough to proclaim the need to promote the economic and social  independence of communicators and for them to have the technical means for carrying out their duties. This  is correct, but utterly inadequate. It is essential to include a principle stipulating that the national charac-  ter of the mass media depends on their being independent of any manipulation by private groups or State  bureaucracies, which entails public supervision of the media. Each country will choose the system of  ownership most likely to ensure this public supervision, and Peru does not seek to impose its own solution  which avoids both private and State ownership of the mass media through the transfer of ownership to the  organized social sectors. Communication in the true sense requires’ the elimination of a one-way vertical  flow of information, a two-way transmission of messages, and total and effective democratization so that  the interests of majorities rather than of closed groups are served.
(2.20) Nor does document 19 C/91 contain any provision referring to the need for Member States to defend  themselves from the actions of certain multinational news and information agencies having links with the  interests of the monopolist companies which control the world arms trade and such basic products as pet-  roleum, copper and foodstuffs, which manipulate world opinion and news concerning particular countries  in accordance with their own interests, and which can be an obstacle to good relations between States, inter-  national understanding and world peace. It would be desirable to propose a form of international control by  means of intergovernmental agreements, and this idea should be included as one of the principles of the  Declaration.
(2.21) Mr: President, I should like, in conclusion, to express, on behalf of Peru, our best wishes for the  success of the General Conference and our desire to collaborate with Member States to achieve the most  fruitful results, bearing in mind that, during this difficult period that the world is going through, it is es-  sential to approach the tasks within Unesco's competence in a spirit of frankness and goodwill so that we  may increasingly contribute to the elimination of injustice in the world. Thank you very much.
3. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Per  Federation of Democratic Yours to address a RRL Sr Simonyi of the World
4.1 Mr. SIMONYI (World Federation of Democratic Youth):  Mr. President, honourable delegates, allow me fir .  Unesco on the occasion of its ter anniversary on epi Hi The sr ceuns 33  of Democratic Youth, its member organizations and all the millions of youn n Gn ederation  We feel that this anniversary will be a milestone in the history of the AJ Ha represents.  not a turning point, as Unesco has in the past always acted on the basis of its ray  are convinced it will do so in the future. The World Federation of Democratic Sa a  governmental youth organization having member organizations all over the world, in ry a non-  Africa and Latin America, whose aim is to unite organizations of youth representin en dy  ideological trends for the cause of peace, security, co-operation, social progress SE ent  for their rights. We have during our thirty-one years of existence always had close co sirugsle  with the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies, particularly with Unesco, with rare  fruitful relations of co-operation. : we enjoy
4.2 Mr. President, we are living in a changing world in which, as in the international organizati  like Unesco, the desires of all mankind to live in peace and security and to strengthen fn hig  in vital fields, find expression. In the past few years we have witnessed the victory of the les  of Viet Nam who now after the years of destruction are engaged in the healing of wounds at  their democratic and free society. The peoples of Laos and Cambodia have at the same time i  their independence. As a result of the fall of the last fascist colonial empire - the Portuguese col-  onies of Mozambique, Guinea-Bissau, Cape Verde and Sao Tomé have all become independent. In  Angola, as a result of the struggle of the Angolan people led by the MPLA against foreign interven-  tion and against reactionary forces which were supported by imperialism, the People's Republic of  Angola has become totally independent. Their victory is a further success of those struggling  against imperialism, colonialism and neo-colonialism. The World Federation of Democratic Youth  has always supported their struggle and will give them full support in their work of national recon-  struction. I would like to convey our heartfelt congratulations to the delegation of the People's Repub-  lic of Angola on the occasion of its becoming a Member State of Unesco.
4.3 After the long-lasting era of cold war, relationships among States have changed and are now  generally based on the principles of peaceful coexistence. Recent developments in the process of  détente are noted with satisfaction by all the peoples concerned, especially youth. The concluding  of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe with its decisions and recommendations  has meant a great step forward along this difficult road. Young people have always supported these  efforts in their particular fields of competence. As an important contribution to this process, the  European Youth and Students Meeting was held this year with the participation of organizations from  the whole of Europe. We are convinced that these efforts are of greatimportance not only for Europe  but for the whole world and the whole of humanity. Aware as it is of the importance of strengthening  this process, Unesco, we believe, should in the future as it has in the past, contribute to the efforts  of those struggling for peace, security and co-operation in the fields of education, sciences and cul-  ture wherein lie great resources which still remain to be exploited for such ends. At the same time,  many of the great achievements in these fields are endangered by the unprecedented stepping-up of  the arms race. This isa potential danger for the existence of humanity as a whole and of the peoples  of the world. Military expenditures are increasing everywhere, wasting vast amounts of money,  when at the same time in a number of countries educational budgets and social services are being  cut back drastically. It is essential for all to be aware of the fact that if political détente is to be  made irreversible it must be followed up by military détente. We young people are making every  effort to support all those proposals which represent concrete advances along this difficult road.  We firmly support the convening of the World Conference on Disarmament with the participation  of the representatives of world public opinion. We support all partial agreements which contribute  to the general process of disarmament, such as the prohibition of testing of new weapons of mass  destruction, atomic and chemical, and the banning of all kinds of weapons which are destructive  for the human environment. We believe that the proposal that there should be an immediate cut of
10 per cent in the military budgets of permanent members of the United Nations Security Council  should be put into effect. We give our full support to the new Stockholm Appeal as a means of mo-  bilizing world opinion to halt the arms race. For these same reasons we cannot but Support HE  various proposals of all kinds, within this Conference and in its wake, which tend to mobilize ps ic  opinion in the cause of disarmament. As a contribution to these aims, at the level of youth, the ;  European Youth Disarmament Conference will be held next year and will be hosted by our FE  member organization in Budapest, with the participation of large numbers of youth and a a sn  ganizations as a follow-up to the Warsaw meeting of the youth and students of se e > e ÿ  vinced that this initiative will find full support from Unesco. Knowing Unesco's interest i he Sn -  tinuing rationalization of the use of the world's cultural, scientific and educational nl  fully support those proposals and decisions which are related to these problems and are di y  linked with the questions of disarmament.  J dh er,
4.4 Mr. President, a large part of the world today is characterized by Er R IRE  generally characterized as underdevelopment. In these countries the sa pa Their  suffering from malnutrition and most of the young people do notthave aly fib
20 economy, in most cases as a direct result of a long period of colonial rule and of present-day neo-  colonial links mostly exploited by the transnational corporations, is not capable of satisfying the  needs of their peoples. The rights of States to their own national resources are now widely recog-  nized and a positive process of nationalization has begun in Latin America, Africa and Asia. The  World Federation of Democratie Youth has always supported, in its field of competence, the efforts  of the developing countries to overcome their problems. It has supported the struggle of developing  countries for the establishment of a new international economic order which would base the economic  relations of States on the principle of equality, mutual benefits and respect. It should, however, be  noted that the positive experience and the existing mutually beneficial contacts among socialistcoun-  tries already represent an appreciable achievement in this respect. The aid policy of these coun-  tries to which absolutely no conditions are attached, the very considerable help they offer in the  training of highly qualified personnel, without which development is unimaginable, should serve as  an inspiring example. It must also be stressed that the process known as brain-drain has never  been a part of such relationships. We also believe that no change in existing relationships can  bring any real achievement unless it is accompanied by drastic changes in the socio-economic sys-  tems of the developing countries. Our commitment to the cause of the developing countries and the  effort to overcome their problems is evidenced by the forthcoming Executive Committee meeting to  be organized in Mexico and the meeting of international solidarity dealing with the problems of devel-  oping countries to begin next week. Since development implies the capacity to assimilate the latest  achievements of the scientific-technical revolution, Unesco should fully exploit every possibility in  this area, thus making a direct contribution to the overcoming of underdevelopment in the fields of  education and science.
4.5 Mr. President, it is important to note the interrelation between the processes of détente and  disarmament and the establishment of a new international economic order, since achievements in  the former create the most favourable conditions for the latter. Millions of young people through-  out the world continue to demonstrate their solidarity with the peoples of South Africa, Namibia  and Zimbabwe, their opposition to apartheid and the social and economic oppression of the peoples  of these countries, and their support for the elimination of minority rule and the accession of their  homelands to independence. In this field all youth organizations co-operate actively with Unesco.  Mr. President, we firmly support the struggle of the Chilean people against the fascist dictatorship  which has no respect for human rights and which in its three years of existence has only led that  country to catastrophe. Young people and children especially are suffering from conditions in which  not even their minimum rights are secured. It is in such sad circumstances as these that we see  clearly expressed the real essence of the activities of multinational corporations. We young people  cannot understand how Unesco can allow an institution bearing its name to operate where the most  basic tenets of its Constitution are ignored. The existence of the fascist junta is a threat to all the  peoples of the continent aspiring to establish a new democratic society. The Middle East crisis,  too, remains a hotbed of war. The civil war in Lebanon has only added to the complexity of this  problem. We fully support the struggle of the progressive forces in this region and the desire of  the Palestinian people led by the Palestine Liberation Organization to live in peace as an independ-  ent nation.
4.6 Mr. President, young people today are playing an increasingly important role in all societies  and in the social and economic life of their countries. They are fully aware of the fact that develop-  ments in the world today will be the basis of their future life. It is therefore important that their  desire to be involved in social life should be based on their desire to live, in the future, a peaceful  life which will allow them to contribute in the best possible way to their own national development.  For this reason every effort should be made to create conditions in which the problems of young  people can be suitably solved. It is clear that the problems they are obliged to face in education,  work and all other aspects of their life depend to a large extent on the societies in which they live.  In some countries the condition of youth is characterized by illiteracy, unemployment and grave  exploitation. In others they are able to participate fully in the development process of their coun-  tries where their rights are respected, and where they enjoy the best possible conditions in which  to study and work. These wide variations should be clearly reflected in the sections dealing with  youth in Unesco's Medium- Term Plan. At the same time we believe that all Unesco's undertakings  must be a part of and a contribution to those changes in socio-economic life which alone can bring  about the conditions in which the economic, social, political and cultural rights of young people are  assured.
4.7 The most disadvantaged among youth in a number of countries are young workers, many of  whom are the victims of exploitation. Their whole future is endangered by systems of education  which are very largely only new forms of exploitation by monopolies. The achievements of the  socialist countries are noteworthy examples of the way in which the rights of young workers in edu-  cation, leisure and culture have been provided for. The problem of access to education is a crucial  area in which Unesco has an important part to play in analysing the possible partial solutions to this  particular question. Equal access to education should be provided for all whatever their social  background, and those who are socially most disadvantaged - young people from workers’ families  or in rural areas - should receive extra support. The strengthening of respect for rights of youth,  the creation of opportunities for leisure-time activities, improved working conditions for young  people and means of helping rural youth ‘to become equal members of society - these are all fields  where Unesco could actively launch activities, as it has done in the past and as we believe and  know it will do in the future. Such activities could be strengthened by increased involvement of  youth, through contracts. We believe Unesco, with the means of information at its disposal, can
764   play an important role in educating young people in the spirit of peace and international understand-  ing. It should use all these means to influence the mass media in this respect, for which reason  the World Federation of Democratic Youth fully supports agenda item 69, the declaration on funda-  mental principles governing the use of the mass media in strengthening peace and international  understanding and in combating war propaganda, racism and apartheid, since these things are  grave dangers to all nations, but especially to those which are still struggling for their independence  in the face of colonial and neo-colonial domination. We young people are not against freedom of the  mass media, what we stress is that the mass media should be responsible for the content of what  they transmit, since they have such a great responsibility for peace and security in the world.
4.8 Mr. President, we as an international youth non-governmental organization have established  a really fruitful co-operation between our two organizations during the past decade. We have par-  ticipated in activities launched by Unesco and Unesco has taken part in activities which we have  organized. We feel that Unesco honestly expressed its appreciation of the relations with non-  governmental organizations in the sexennial report presented in Commission III. We wish as a  non-governmental organization to further improve these mutually beneficial contacts in the field  of education, youth rights, peace and international understanding. We hope that in the future, non-  governmental organizations in general, and non-governmental youth organizations in particular,  will be further involved in the working out of those future activities of Unesco which are of relevant  interest. We therefore welcome the forthcoming joint consultations between Unesco and non-  governmental organizations to be held in December on a number of important issues. We fully ap-  preciate in particular the work of the Youth Division in its efforts to strengthen co-operation with  youth and student organizations. We fully agree also with the contents of the Draft Programme for
1977-1978 which takes into consideration the most important questions related to youth, and demon-  strates the desire of Unesco to further involve young people, and especially their organizations, in  the realizing of its aims. At the same time, however, we feel that the Draft Medium- Term Plan  for 1977-1982 does not give clear statement of the problems of youth all over the world. We feel  that in this case youth organizations have not been consulted thoroughly enough. The biennial and  the medium-term plans are thus to a certain extent inconsistent with regard to questions concern-  ing youth. The consultations between Unesco and the youth organizations having consultative status  with Unesco to be held in Paris in December as already mentioned will certainly strengthen our co-  operative relationships. Our organization, in turn, promotes co-operation between the international  organizations of Unesco and our own national affiliates, in order to bring about co-operation in those  fields which are of mutual interest.
4.9 Mr. President, allow me once more to express our conviction, that the United Nations Educa-  tional Scientific and Cultural Organization will in the future remain a body which can contribute to  the solving of the problems of our world, the promotion of peace, co-operation and international  understanding, for the benefit of all. As it is young people who are to inherit the world of today,  their participation in the solving of the vital problems of mankind is essential. We shall be acting  in this spirit. Thank you.
5. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of the World Federation of Democratic Youth, and give the floor to  the delegate of Chile on a point of order.
(6.1) Mr. FERNANDEZ (Chile) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, I should like to raise a point of order. The World Federation of Democratic Youth has  just made some remarks concerning my country which I wish to refute. A little less than three hours ago  we heard the same kind of baseless assertions with regard to the Government of Chile. I do not intend to  repeat the arguments I have already put forward, since they will be fresh in your memories. However, I  do wish to deny the right arrogated by a non-governmental organization to intervene in the domestic affairs  of a Member State. Its role is to collaborate with Unesco, not to pass judgement on the conduct of States.
(6.2) As to the presence in Chile of the Unesco Regional Office for Education, I should like to point out that  this is a purely regional matter, as the Director-General has stated on various occasions. This Office is  operating normally and providing assistance to the region and to Chile in a perfectly satisfactory manner.
20 (6.3) As to the gratuitous and unfounded allegation that thousands upon thousands of young people and chil-  dren are suffering in my country, it has no place in such an august gathering as this. It is the sort of gra-  tuitous assertion that reflects no credit on its author and is not worthy of the attention of listeners. Thank  you.
7. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Chile and I assure him that his views will be put on record.  I now call upon H. E. Mr. Ali Lankoande, Minister of National Education and Culture and head of  the delegation of Upper Volta.
8.1 M. LANKOANDE (Haute-Volta). -  Monsieur le Président, avant d'apporter la contribution de mon pays au débat de politique  générale, je voudrais présenter, au nom du gouvernement de la Haute-Volta, mes condoléances  les plus attristées à la délégation indonésienne dont le pays vient d'être éprouvé par un terrible  tremblement de terre.
8.2 Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi aussi de joindre ma voix à celles des délégués qui  m'ont précédé à cette tribune pour vous féliciter et féliciter votre pays pour votre brillante élec-  tion à la présidence de la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco.
8.3 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur  général, mes chers collègues, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, ainsi done, deux ans après  avoir élu à la tête du Secrétariat de l'Unesco comme Directeur général de l'Organisation un au-  thentique et digne fils de l'Afrique, en la personne de M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, nous voici  réunis pour la Conférence générale au Kenya, coeur du continent africain. Le Kenya, pays chargé  d'histoire s'il en est, puisqu'il a révélé, en particulier grâce aux célèbres travaux du professeur  L.S.B. Leakey et de Mme M. Leakey, quelques-uns des fossiles d'hominidés les plus anciens  jamais découverts, à tel point que notre rassemblement ici pourrait être considéré comme un  pélerinage aux sources, une sorte de retour au berceau de notre espèce. Haut lieu d'histoire  encore, tout récemment, quand les rebelles africains traités, comme il était d'usage, de "terro-  ristes' par les exploiteurs de l'époque, allumaient les incendies annonciateurs de la renaissance,
8.4 Mais les performances du Kenya ne doivent pas nous faire oublier que sur ce continent,  d'autres poursuivent toujours les mêmes efforts. Je voudrais saluer ici la lutte héroïque des  élèves et des étudiants de Soweto et d'ailleurs qui écrivent avec leur sang les grands principes que  nous proclamons ici par des discours. Quand les élèves de Soweto se soulèvent en effet pour le  droit à une éducation digne de ce nom qui ne les condamne pas à laisser leur langue maternelle au  vestiaire pour mériter d'entrer dans le temple de la science, que font-ils, sinon répéter le geste  puissant de l'homme africain forgeant sa personnalité, depuis les préhominiens jusqu'aux Mau  Mau ? Que font-ils, sinon défendre au prix de leur vie les principes mêmes et les idéaux de  l'Unesco tels qu'ils sont exprimés dans le document 19 C/4, en particulier dans les sections rela-  tives au droit à l'identité culturelle ? Monsieur le Président, le racisme n'est pas mort. Et si  nous étions réellement solidaires de ceux qui en souffrent quotidiennement dans leur âme et leur  chair, notre sommeil en serait rempli de cauchemars ; c'est pourquoi même si l'adoption du  Projet de déclaration sur le racisme élaboré par le Secrétariat de l'Unesco à cette session paraît  prématurée, nous pensons qu'il importe d'en parler afin de hâter la maturation des éléments de  cette profession de foi historique.
8.5 A cet égard, le document 19 C/4 constitue déjà un monument digne d'éloge. Ses auteurs, à  commencer par le Directeur général qui en a été le maître d'oeuvre, ont bien mérité de notre  Organisation. En effet, il s'agit là d'un document qui allie avec bonheur la méditation philosophique  à l'approche concrète du quotidien ; limpide et robuste dans son économie, pédagogique dans sa  forme, tel un chef-d'oeuvre de la statuaire africaine, il revêt aussi, grâce aux multiples idées  pratiques qu'on y trouve, un caractère opérationnel.
8.6 Après les sixième et septième sessions extraordinaires de l'Assemblée générale des Nations  Unies et les résolutions 18 C/10.1 et 12.1, relatives respectivement au plan sexennal à horizon  fixe et au nouvel ordre économique international, le document 19 C/4, dont les idées sont reprises  par ailleurs dans l'important ouvrage intitulé "Le monde en devenir', est une contribution inesti-  mable à l'accouchement spirituel d'un monde nouveau ; c'est un lien vivant entre l'Acte constitutif  et le programme de l'Organisation. Certes, le débat se poursuit sur certains points concernant  les méthodes ou la problématique, par exemple sur le conformisme consistant à utiliser le voca-  bulaire qui sous-tend l'idéologie assimilationniste et quantitativiste ambiante ou plutôt dominante.  Je mentionnerai à cet égard les expressions : "niveau de développement", "pays en développement"  et "pays développés" qui constituent autant de moules exprimant une typologie statique et photogra-  phique alors que l'analyse du processus et de la dialectique aurait peut-être tout simplement fait  apparaître des pays ou des groupes sous-developpés et des pays ou des groupes générateurs de  sous-développement. Des problèmes d'évaluation se posent aussi, eu égard à l'ampleur, à la com-  plexité, voire à l'immatérialité des objectifs énoncés dans le Plan à moyen terme.
8.7 Enfin, en ce qui concerne la force exécutoire du 19 C/4, on ne peut dire qu'elle soit la même  que celle du 19 €/5, l'adoption de ce dernier document entraînant pour les Etats membres des  obligations précises qui relèvent du droit international. Le 19 C/4, lui, ne relève pas de l'obliga-  tion juridique, mais de la norme éthique, de l'engagement moral et de la stratégie intellectuelle,
766   toutes choses qui engagent aussi à leur manière. En effet, si le 19 C/4 n'était qu'une pieuse décla-  ration d'intentions, le Directeur général et le Secrétariat ainsi que le Conseil exécutif auraient dû  consacrer des mois de travail intensif et coûteux à l'élaboration de quelques centaines de pages  sans valeur précise. Par ailleurs, s'il n'y avait aucun engagement collectif sur les principes con-  tenus dans le 19 C/4, les C/5 successifs de la période sexennale risqueraient de perdre leur sens.  Ajoutons que le fait que nombre d'Etats disposent d'un système de planification ou de programma-  tion à moyen terme - quadriennal, quinquennal ou sexennal - démontre à la fois que le "modèle"  existe déjà sur le plan national et qu'il peut servir de caution à l'entreprise sur le plan  international. ;
8.8 En ce qui concerne les trois premiers chapitres du 19 C/4, nous constatons tout d'abord que  sous l'objectif 1.1 sont abordés des problèmes fondamentaux à propos desquels nous entendons  parfois les objections de pays industrialisés, pour lesquels l'Unesco devrait se cantonner stricte-  ment aux domaines relevant de sa compétence spécifique, les grands problèmes comme la paix,  les droits de l'homme, le développement, étant réservés à l'ONU. Nous récusons catégoriquement  cette conception trop restrictive du rôle de l'Unesco et cette interprétation étriquée de la division  du travail au sein du système des Nations Unies, L'Unesco n'est-elle pas chargée par son Acte  constitutif "'d'élever dans l'esprit des hommes les défenses de la paix'' ? Les droits de l'homme  peuvent-ils être dissociés de son éducation et de sa culture ; et le développement peut-il être  découpé en départements relevant d'autorités différentes selon que les hommes veulent être  soignés, éduqués, employés ou gouvernés ? L'éducation n'est-elle pas en soi un acte de reproduc-  tion sociale intégrale ? La culture dominante n'est-elle pas le fourrier de l'exploitation économique ?
8.9 À cet égard, l'effort d'analyse fait au chapitre III - L'homme en tant que centre du dévelop-  pement - en vue de définir la pluralité des voies et des modèles est une contribution remarquable  à l'action du système des Nations Unies pour un nouvel ordre mondial. Bien sûr, comme très  souvent dans les documents de base de l'Unesco, on constate une disproportion effarante entre  l'ampleur et la rigueur de la réflexion, et l'insuffisance des actions de programme. L'intendance  ne suit pas, Du moins importe-t-il que ces actions soient entreprises - dans toute la mesure du  possible - par les intéressés eux-mêmes. Tant il est vrai que développement endogène et expan-  sion désordonnée de l'assistance technique extérieure sont des formules contradictoires.
8.10 De ce point de vue, le chapitre IV consacré à la science et à la technologie, qui met en  cause tant d'intérêts financiers dont on voit mal comment ils pourraient être convaineus par la  seule force d'un raisonnement juste, laisse un peu sceptique. Il en va de même de la contradiction  que l'on note au chapitre V entre la rigueur de l'analyse de l'action éducative et la timidité presque  conservatrice des principes d'action. Quant à l'amélioration des chances de "certains groupes'',  évoquée au chapitre VI, il importe de noter que ces groupes se situant en marge des systèmes  d'éducation constituent en fait la majorité de la population dans nombre de pays. Il convient donc,  pour répondre à leurs besoins, d'établir un lien étroit entre la volonté de changer l'école et celle  de changer l'alphabétisation.
8.11 Le chapitre relatif à l'environnement est aussi important pour les pays sous-équipés que  pour les pays industrialisés, d'autant plus que ces derniers ont tendance à rejeter vers la péri-  phérie les industries polluantes, que le climat chaud aggrave souvent les nuisances et qu'un cer-  tain tourisme exerce un rôle de décapant culturel très nocif.
8.12 Bien des gens tendent à voir dans le mariage entre communication et culture qui apparaît au  chapitre IX un mariage contre nature car seules quelques grandes puissances dominent les com-  munications et les télécommunications qui exercent en permanence une action de laminage des  cultures sans défense des pays sous-équipés. Dans un monde où la quantité et la vitesse des com-  munications augmentent chaque jour, le splendide isolement des cultures dominantes et leur igno-  rance méprisante des sous-cultures engendrent une incompréhension mutuelle évidente qui rend  dérisoire le perpétuel chant des sirènes sur le dialogue des cultures.
8.13 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, permettez-moi d'évoquer très  brièvement les problèmes que pose le document 19 C/5. D'abord, sur le plan de la méthode suivie,  les efforts déployés pour passer de l'approche sectorielle à l'approche thématique et logique par  objectifs doivent être développés, y compris dans les structures du Secrétariat ; les innovations  adoptées dans le secteur important de la coopération pour le développement et des relations exté-  rieures, et l'expérience consistant à désigner des sous-directeurs généraux adjoints chargés de  la coordination sont la première illustration de ces efforts.
8.14 En ce qui concerne le programme biennal (19 C/5), nous tenons à insister sur les points  suivants : pour des pays démunis comme les nôtres, la grande priorité est de renforcer l'aptitude  des Etats à planifier et à gérer les recherches et l'action pour l'innovation ; car il ne servira à  rien de disséminer dans le système d'éducation des Etats des mini-projets parcellaires si la  structure de l'ensemble reste inchangée, Les calmants administrés à un grand malade prennent  la forme d'une euthanasie culturelle. En Haute-Volta, nous estimons que seule une réforme pro-  fonde du système éducatif donne à la planification de l'éducation sa véritable dimension politique  et humaine, sans quoi elle risque d'être un exercice bureaucratique sans signification, Certes,  notre projet de réforme n'a pas encore fait l'objet d'une décision politique, mais le dossier est  presque prêt et nous étudions les voies et moyens propres à garantir que la décision politique im-  minente disposera des points d'ancrage nécessaires pour entraîner la mobilisation populaire.
20 C'est ainsi que nous avons créé un Institut national d'éducation (INE) qui doit être le catalyseur  de toutes les actions visant à assurer le passage de l'éducation ancienne tournée vers l'extérieur  à l'éducation nouvelle axée sur nos réalités. La mission de l'INE est de structurer la recherche  pédagogique et en particulier l'élaboration de nouveaux programmes, d'assurer la formation et le  recyclage des enseignants et des cadres du système éducatif et d'organiser la production des docu-  ments et de tous les auxiliaires pédagogiques.
8.15 Il est permis de se demander pourquoi la section 1.15 englobe l'éducation des adultes et non  l'éducation destinée à d'autres groupes. La même remarque vaut pour l'enseignement technique  et pour le développement d'une technologie endogène. Ces deux objectifs sont dialectiquement liés  et ne peuvent pas être examinés valablement l'un sans l'autre. En effet, comme son nom l'indique,  la technologie endogène est celle qui est engendrée par le pays concerné. Or, qui peut engendrer  cette technologie appropriée, sinon les cadres sortis des établissements d'enseignement technique  locaux ? Encore faut-il que ces établissements ne soient pas eux-mêmes déjà tournés vers l'exté-  rieur ; c'est pourquoi nous appuyons sans réserve la résolution 2.15 tendand à accorder la prio-  rité à la mise au point de nouvelles sources d'énergie et de nouvelles techniques pour le logement,  ainsi qu'à la préservation et à l'amélioration de l'environnement. Mais cela suppose le renforce-  ment des infrastructures nationales de la recherche et la formation d'ingénieurs et de techniciens  connaissant bien les réalités, les besoins et les possibilités du milieu.
8.16 C'est dans ce cadre que le programme MAB nous intéresse au plus haut point. Au sujet du  projet international n° 3, intitulé "Impact des activités humaines et des méthodes d'utilisation des  terres à pâturages'', force est de reconnaître que les recherches menées au Sahel demeurent  timides. La réalité est que de nombreux Etats, qu'ils aient ou non créé un Comité national pour  le MAB, ont du mal à suivre le programme. Les raisons principales en sont, dans le cas de la  Haute-Volta, la faiblesse des infrastructures de recherche locales et la difficulté - déjà soulignées  à la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale par la délégation voltaïque - de "bénéficier  des cours de formation de spécialistes devant assurer sur le plan scientifique l'exécution des pro-  grammes de recherche''. Conformément aux dispositions du paragraphe 2242 relatif à l'encourage-  ment des activités nationales et de la coopération régionale, la Haute-Volta sollicite de l'Unesco  l'envoi d'une équipe d'experts en vue de l'aider à élaborer des programmes adéquats répondant à  ses préoccupations, notamment un programme de recherche permettant d'évaluer les incidences  des grands travaux sur l'environnement (projet n° 10 du MAB). Deux grands programmes sont en  Haute-Volta en cours de réalisation, dont le plus remarquable‘est le programme d'éradication de  l'onchocercose, programme interrégional concernant plusieurs pays de la zone soudano-guinéenne :  Ghana, Côte d'Ivoire, Bénin, Togo, Mali, Haute-Volta. Ce programme, dans le cas précis de la  Haute-Volta, est couplé avec un programme d'aménagement des vallées des Voltas et avec divers  aménagements hydro-agricoles. Ces transformations profondes de milieux naturels jusqu'à pré-  sent inaccessibles à l'homme, la colonisation agricole de ""terres libérées de la simulie'', com-  mandent qu'on en mesure les conséquences possibles, notamment sur le réseau hydrographique.  Ce dernier aspect permettant une liaison entre le programme MAB et le Programme hydrologique  international.
8.17 En se basant sur le rapport MAB n° 22 du Groupe de concertation sur les critères et les  lignes directrices du choix et de la constitution de réserves de la biosphère, la Haute-Volta estime  qu'il est possible de créer sur son territoire des réserves de la biosphère. En effet, il existe déjà  deux zones délimitées et intégralement protégées par les soins du Service forestier, de l'environ-  nement et de la protection de la nature. Des recherches phyto-écologiques, exécutées avec le con-  cours du Centre voltaïque de la recherche scientifique, y sont en cours.
8.18 La première zone, sous climat soudanien, correspond à un type d'écosystème modifié où  les communautés originelles ont été fortement transformées par l'action humaine, type assez  fréquent dans la partie centrale de la Haute-Volta, connue pour ses fortes densités de population  et où les faciès de dégradation poussée de la végétation et des sols occupent de larges surfaces.  Les recherches en cours sur des parcelles de mise en défense ont pour objectif général, tout en  restaurant ces aires, de faire appel au mode de régénération naturelle de la végétation, De plus  est visé un objectif de démonstration permettant aux populations locales de mesurer le caractère  négatif des feux de brousse. Ces parcelles de mise en défense sont appelées à devenir véritable-  ment un lieu de démonstration et de vulgarisation permanentes des questions relatives à l'environ-  nement. La seconde zone, située au nord de la capitale, est incluse dans une forêt classée, seule  région de forte charge démographique et rare témoin, à cette latitude, de formation peu ou non  transformée par l'homme.
8.19 Outre les divers rôles que peuvent jouer les réserves de la biosphère, il convient de sou-  ligner qu'elles pourraient également servir de cadre, pour les études au sol, au projet FAO/PNUE  de surveillance périodique de la couverture forestière. Ce projet, dans sa phase expérimentale,  couvre actuellement en longitude quatre pays contigus de l'Afrique de l'Ouest et de l'Afrique  centrale (Togo, Bénin, Nigéria et Cameroun). Son extension à l'ensemble de l'Afrique tropicale  est prévue pour 1978, et la Haute-Volta, pays soudano-sahélien, ayant une frontière commune  avec le Bénin et le Togo, constitue un jalon logique assurant une continuation en latitude du projet  expérimental actuel.
8.20 Le Programme hydrologique international (PHI) a permis de bien souligner l'importance de  l'hydrologie sur le plan national et international. Dans les pays en voie de développement, le PHI
768   a fortement influencé la mise en place des réseaux de stations hydrologiques et l'amélioration des  systèmes de traitement des données. L'aide aux Etats membres devrait porter en priorité sur les  points suivants : expansion et amélioration des services hydrologiques nationaux ; amélioration et  exploitation plus efficace des réseaux de stations hydrologiques ; fourniture d'instruments hydro-  logiques et météorologiques ; fourniture des moyens et équipements nécessaires pour le traite-  ment des données hydrologiques ; formation de techniciens et spécialistes en hydrologie opération-  nelle ; organisation de conférences, de colloques et de séminaires.
8.21 La Haute-Volta abrite sur son territoire quatre organismes interafricains concernés par le  problème de l'eau en général et celui de l'hydrologie en particulier. Il s'agit de l'Ecole inter-Etats  des ingénieurs de l'équipement rural, du Comité inter-Etats d'études hydrauliques, de l'Ecole  inter-Etats des techniciens supérieurs de l'hydraulique et de l'équipement rural, et enfin du Comité  inter-Etats de lutte contre la sécheresse au Sahel. Ouagadougou serait donc un lieu idéal pour les  séminaires ou cours d'hydrologie que voudrait organiser l'Unesco.
8.22 En ce qui concerne les groupes les plus défavorisés qui sont loin d'être des minorités, nous  aurions souhaité qu'un accent plus fort soit mis encore sur la situation des travailleurs migrants.  Notre pays est grand fournisseur de main-d'oeuvre, particulièrement défavorisée sur le plan sous-  régional africain, Or nous estimons qu'en raison des disparités du développement économique  entre pays et sous-régions du continent, un tel problème ne peut que prendre de l'ampleur dans  l'avenir.
8.23 Nous insistons enfin, et surtout, sur l'importance de la section 4.11, qui comporte neuf  projets dont les cinq premiers intéressent des cultures spécifiques. L'identité culturelle est la  clé de tout projet de développement authentique. Cet objectif prime même celui de la diffusion  internationale des cultures, qui, si l'on n'y prend garde, peut servir encore plus les cultures  dominantes et impérialistes.
8.24 Le projet relatif à la culture africaine comporte trois types d'activités : la continuation du  projet d'Histoire générale de l'Afrique ; des actions dans le domaine de la tradition orale et des  langues ; des études sur la spécificité et la dynamique des cultures négro-africaines. Une des  observations que l'on peut faire est que, sans ressources extrabudgétaire, le montant de crédits  prévus (471.400 dollars) ne permettra pas d'entreprendre une action significative, à la mesure  des recommandations d'AFRICACULT, qui a mis en relief les phénomènes d'interdépendance  entre culture, libération, indépendance et développement en Afrique.
8.25 Ainsi est-il indispensable que les masses populaires participent activement à la vie cultu-  relle de leur société, tout devant être mis en oeuvre pour stimuler leur créativité. Nous pensons  à cet égard aux moyens audiovisuels comme moyens privilégiés d'expression et d'animation cul-  turelle. Aussi saluons-nous avec une chaleur particulière l'initiative de notre Organisation con-  sistant à envisager un programme d'éducation des artistes et de leur public, et à instituer, notam-  ment, un enseignement du cinéma dépassant les simples préoccupations techniques. Cet enseigne-  ment sera dispensé à l'Institut africain d'éducation cinématographique, dont la création a été  décidée lors de la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale. Nous voudrions rendre ici, une  fois de plus, un vibrant hommage à l'Organisation pour l'honneur qu'elle fait à la Haute-Volta en  y installant cet institut. D'ores et déjà, les dispositions ont été prises pour le démarrage, dès  cette année, d'un programme expérimental d'enseignement cinématographique, avec l'aide de  l'Université de Ouagadougou et des services techniques voltaïques compétents, À la rentrée 1977-
1978, on entamera la phase opérationnelle et les Etats de la sous-région ne manqueront pas d'en-  voyer leurs ressortissants à l'institut pour qu'ils y reçoivent la formation voulue.
8.26 Monsieur le Président, chers collègues, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, avant de  terminer, je voudrais saluer la mémoire du regretté René Maheu, ancien directeur général de  notre Organisation, dont la vigueur et l'élévation de la pensée, mais aussi l'énergie indomptable,  ont tant apporté à l'Unesco durant tant d'années cruciales et mémorables. René Maheu a bien  mérité de notre Organisation.
8.27 Celle-ci a aujourd'hui à sa tête un homme qui a toutes les qualités et intellectuelles et  morales voulues pour mener la barque de l'Unesco vers des lendemains encore meilleurs,  M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow est l'homme qu'il faut au moment qu'il faut. Grâce à son dynamisme  et à son optimisme raisonné, grâce à sa lucidité et à son infatigable dévouement, grâce enfin au  rayonnement conquérant de ses convictions, l'Unesco pourra passer les caps difficiles du monde  mouvant d'aujourd'hui. Encore faut-il pour cela que l'Organisation se dote des moyens d'action  indispensables à la réalisation de son programme.
8.28 Un hommage solennel doit être rendu au Directeur général et au Secrétariat pour les efforts  et les trésors d'imagination déployés en vue de parer au non-versement des contributions dont  certains Etats semblent vouloir user comme d'un moyen de pression politique. Les propositions  budgétaires et financières faites par le Directeur général et entérinées par le Conseil exécutif  sont parfaitement justifiées. Nous ne pouvons laisser le Secrétariat vivre d'expédients, et reporter  sur le Directeur général des responsabilités qui nous incombent statutairement, politiquement et  moralement. L'Unesco, c'est nous.
20 8.29 L'inflation, la dépréciation de la monnaie de compte de l'Organisation, etc., sont des phéno-  mènes qui relèvent de la responsabilité des Etats et non de celle du Secrétariat, qui ne fait qu'en  subir les conséquences. Et de même que chaque Etat révise son budget en hausse pour tenir  compte de tels facteurs, de même la communauté internationale doit-elle adopter des mesures  analogues pour les organisations du système des Nations Unies. Je l'affirme d'autant plus libre-  ment que, représentant d'un pays démuni où le revenu monétaire par habitant ne dépasse pas
70 dollars par an, j'ai le sentiment que notre contribution au budget de l'Unesco est relativement  plus élevée que celle des grandes puissances qui donnent une fraction de leur superflu alors que  nous donnons une partie de notre minimum vital.
8.30 Monsieur le Président, il nous importe d'être conséquents avec nous-mêmes, Tous les  Etats qui à l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies ont voté le principe d'un nouvel ordre interna-  tional se doivent d'éviter une contradiction flagrante entre des professions de foi verbales et des  politiques froidement calculées et appliquées, qui camouflent mal l'égoisme individuel et la volonté  de puissance.
8.31 Monsieur le Président, ou bien le nouvel ordre sera basé sur une nouvelle sincérité dans nos  rapports, ou bien il ira rejoindre une multitude d'autres formules fantômes au musée très riche  des supercheries collectives, que "l'ordre" mondial actuel a abondamment pourvu.
8.32 Puisse le séjour en cette terre merveilleuse du Kenya permettre à nos hôtes non africains  d'apprécier, au-delà des safaris, les vertus de la vraie civilisation africaine, dont l'une des  valeurs les plus constantes est le dialogue sans fausseté, le dialogue sincère, abrupt et fraternel.  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
9. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate and the head of the delegation of Upper Volta and I now call  upon H. E. Mr. Ilmar Penna Marinho, Ambassador, head of his country's permanent delegation to  Unesco and the head of the delegation of Brazil.
10.1 M. PENNA MARINHO (Brésil). -  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, la dix-neuvième session de la  Conférence générale de l'Unesco commence sous d'excellents auspices. L'accueil que le gouverne-  ment du Kenya lui a réservé, la présence en cette enceinte du président Kenyatta, les nobles  paroles - empreintes d'une haute sagesse - dont il nous a honorés, sont de sûrs témoignages de  l'intérêt et de l'affection que les peuples africains portent à notre Organisation. Combien nous  avons eu raison de nous réunir à Nairobi pour entamer une nouvelle ‘étape de l'histoire de l'Unesco!  En célébrant ici ses trente ans, elle scelle un pacte d'amitié avec l'Afrique et donne un nouvel  élan à ses incessants efforts pour assurer le bonheur et la dignité des peuples dans un monde de  paix et de justice.
10.2 Mon gouvernement m'a chargé, Monsieur le Président, de vous exprimer son admiration  pour la manière exemplaire dont s'accomplit le développement de votre pays, sans porter atteinte  ni à ses traditions culturelles, ni à l'équilibre et à la beauté de son environnement.
10.3 J'aimerais maintenant m'adresser à notre Directeur général. M. M'Bow a assumé la direc-  tion de notre Organisation à un moment particulièrement délicat. La conjoncture politique et le  stade d'évolution de l'Unesco lui imposaient des options qui devaient peser d'une manière générale  sur son avenir. Citoyen d'un Etat en voie de développement, le Directeur général, grâce à son  intelligence, à sa culture, à sa profonde connaissance de l'Organisation, a su lui imprimer un  nouvel esprit et une dynamique conformes aux attentes de la grande majorité des pays.
10.4 Je saisis cette occasion pour m'associer au nom de ma délégation et en mon nom propre au  juste hommage rendu à notre compatriote l'ambassadeur Carneiro lors de la cérémonie commé-  morative du trentième anniversaire de l'Unesco. L'ambassadeur Carneiro symbolise l'esprit et  les principes qui ont valu à notre Organisation le respect et la gratitude de la communauté  mondiale.
10.5 Je voudrais également souhaiter la bienvenue aux nouveaux Etats membres, et plus spéciale-  ment aux jeunes pays africains de langue portugaise auxquels le Brésil est particulièrement lié.  Espérons que, parlée par tant de millions d'hommes ici représentés, cette langue portugaise  pourra avoir, à l'avenir, la place qui lui revient dans notre Organisation.
10.6 Monsieur le Président, plusieurs tendances se sont dessinées presque insensiblement au  cours des trente années qui viennent de s'écouler. Elles se manifestent clairement maintenant,  permettant de mieux définir le rôle de l'Organisation, selon des lignes maîtresses qui pourraient  être : (1) la participation effective des Etats membres à l'orientation des activités et à la concep-  tion du Plan à moyen terme de l'Unesco ; (2) la participation effective des Etats membres à l'éla-  boration des programmes de l'Organisation ; (3) une vision globale des problèmes ; (4) une meil-  leure représentation des Etats membres à l'Unesco ; (5) les aspects politiques de l'Organisation.
10.7 En ce qui concerne le premier point, la participation effective des Etats membres à l'orien-  tation des activités et à la conception du Plan à moyen terme de l'Unesco, il s'agit d'un point fonda-  mental sur lequel de grands progrès ont été réalisés depuis la seizième session de la Conférence
770   générale : grâce à un système de consultations, les Etats membres ont pu avoir une influence  beaucoup plus grande sur la mise au point des objectifs de l'Organisation et sur la rédaction du  document 19 C/4. Le Brésil a deux raisons de s'intéresser particulièrement à ce document. Il  correspond à une initiative soutenue chaleureusement par la délégation brésilienne lors de la dix-  septième session de la Conférence générale, et constitue, sans aucun doute, le document le plus  important produit par l'Unesco, quelles que puissent être les imperfections dues à son caractère  expérimental. Le Plan à moyen terme fournit une base solide à un débat sur l'avenir immédiat de  l'Organisation en permettant de confronter les programmes du C/5 avec les objectifs, d'éliminer  les activités périphériques et de déceler les lacunes de permettre une intervention effective de la  Conférence générale dans l'élaboration du programme et, enfin, de réfléchir aux attributions de  l'Organisation, de débattre de ses projets futurs et d'instituer des mécanismes pour la détermina-  tion des priorités.
10.8 J'en viens à la participation effective des Etats membres à l'élaboration des programmes  de l'Organisation. Désirant aller plus loin, certains Etats membres - en particulier le Brésil -  ont cherché à assurer leur participation réelle à l'élaboration du programme, c'est-à-dire du  document C/5. Bien que cette initiative ait reçu un accueil favorable, elle n'a pu être menée à  bien lors de la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale, pour des raisons d'ordre constitu-  tionnel. Mais, sur ce point également, nous sommes heureux de noter des progrès sensibles.  Indépendamment de toute obligation, le Directeur général a entrepris des efforts constructifs pour  assurer cette participation, notamment au moyen de questionnaires et d'une liaison constante avec  les délégations permanentes. Nous espérons qu'à l'avenir une telle procédure pourra être  institutionnalisée.
10.9 J'ai parlé de la vision globale des problèmes, L'optique propre à l'Unesco est celle d'une  vision globale des problèmes internationaux. Dans une telle perspective, ces derniers ne doivent  pas être considérés isolément, mais sous l'angle d'une approche intégrée tenant compte simulta-  nément de l'interdépendance des sociétés humaines et de la diversité et de l'originalité des diffé -  rentes communautés. Cette vision globale se reflète dans deux concepts qui prennent corps non  seulement à l'Unesco, mais dans tout le système des Nations Unies : celui du développement et  celui du nouvel ordre économique international.
10.10 Le concept de développement, qui s'impose désormais, est celui d'un processus général  et multidimensionnel prenant en considération les facteurs non seulement économiques, mais aussi  politiques, sociaux et culturels, dans leur interdépendance. D'autre part, la croissance ne  deviendra un développement digne de ce nom que si elle est orientée vers des objectifs déterminés  par les individus ou les groupes directement intéressés, dans le cadre des structures et des  valeurs socioculturelles qui leur sont propres.
10.11 La recherche d'un ordre mondial plus juste et plus équitable doit répondre aux mêmes  préoccupations. Il est impossible d'envisager un nouvel ordre économique international sans tenir  compte des exigences de l'éducation, de la science, de la culture et de l'information, et des  lumières qu'elles peuvent apporter. Je désire souligner à ce propos la haute qualité des documents  présentés par le Directeur général, en particulier "Le monde en devenir', où sont dûment mis en  lumière le rôle éthique de l'Unesco, sa compétence spécifique et sa participation aux efforts de  tout le système des Nations Unies. Mais le nouvel ordre économique international, il convient de  le rappeler, n'est encore qu'un cadre vide, et il ne faudrait pas sacrifier sur cet autel des actions  concrètes et des obligations déjà assumées comme celles qui découlent de la stratégie internatio-  nale du développement. Il ne peut y avoir de paix véritable, ni de respect universel de la justice,  sans un ordre économique international plus équitable et plus juste entre les peuples. C'est  pourquoi nous considérons que le souci de l'Unesco d'instaurer un nouvel ordre économique inter-  national revêt la plus grande importance,
10.12 Nous sommes convaineus que bien des causes de tension dans le monde d'aujourd'hui  tiennent moins à la diversité des idéologies politiques entre les nations qu'à la tendance croissante  à l'inégalité du développement économique et industriel selon les peuples. Une des causes de la  situation économique et sociale du monde moderne est, certainement, l'existence d'un système  international reposant sur une accumulation compétitive de richesses, auquel tout esprit d'har-  monie et de bonne volonté fait défaut et qui, réduisant l'homme à un simple instrument de produc-  tion, élimine toute possibilité de développement humain intégré. Jusqu'à présent, comme l'a  remarqué récemment aux Nations Unies le ministre des relations extérieures du Brésil,  M. Azeredo da Silveira, l'intégration de l'économie nationale s'est effectuée au prix d'un déséqui-  libre qu'il faut absolument corriger. Nous ne pouvons pas accepter que l'interdépendance serve  indéfiniment à la seule expansion des grands centres technologiques et économiques mondiaux.
10.13 Dans la civilisation oecuménique que nous devons nous efforcer de construire, le dévelop-  pement de chaque pays est aussi le problème de l'humanité tout entière et, si sa solution dépend  d'abord de l'effort individuel de chaque nation, elle ne pourra néanmoins être obtenue sans un  ordre économique international fondé sur les principes de justice et d'équité - un ordre nouveau qui  ne peut être ni conquis, ni octroyé, mais qui doit représenter une oeuvre commune, construite par  tous. En raison de sa compétence spécifique dans le système des Nations Unies, l'Unesco conçoit  le nouvel ordre économique international dans son acceptation la plus large, c'est-à-dire comme  un mouvement aux dimensions sociales, économiques et culturelles susceptible de répondre aux  aspirations fondamentales de l'homme au progrès, à la justice et à la paix.
20 10.14 Je voudrais maintenant parler de la représentation des Etats membres à l'Unesco. Il va  sans dire que les nouveaux concepts que je viens d'évoquer, inexistants ou vagues lors de l'élabo-  ration de l'Acte constitutif de l'Unesco, doivent entraîner une révision du mode de représentation  des Etats membres dans ses différents organes. Il est parfaitement compréhensible que, du fait  de l'élargissement de l'Unesco qui comprend aujourd'hui 140 Etats membres, une modification de  la composition du Conseil exécutif et des organes subsidiaires de l'Organisation s'impose.
10.15 En ce qui concerne le Conseil exécutif, le Brésil est favorable aux amendements de la  Birmanie et du Rwanda visant à assurer une composition du Conseil exécutif mieux adaptée aux  réalités actuelle des Etats membres. Dans le même esprit, le Brésil donne son accord à une  réforme des organes subsidiaires, conformément à la proposition du groupe latino-américain.
10.16 En ce qui concerne les aspects politiques de l'Organisation, bien des observateurs se font  fort de prévoir la faillite de notre Organisation du fait de la place croissante faite à des questions  politiques, parfois sans lien apparent avec ses activités. Je désire à ce propos faire deux observa-  tions. En premier lieu, pour citer encore une fois le ministre brésilien des relations extérieures  à l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, il serait illusoire de penser que le comportement des  Etats face à un problème puisse être isolé des circonstances politiques. Ni l'Unesco ni les autres  membres de la famille des Nations Unies n'opèrent dans un monde distinct de l'univers réel des  phénomènes politiques. En second lieu, je voudrais rappeler que la lutte politique est loin d'être  nouvelle parmi nous. Il n'est pas moins vrai, toutefois, que conformément au paragraphe 3 de  l'article premier de notre Acte constitutif, des initiatives de caractère politique ne doivent pas  porter atteinte à la souveraineté nationale.
10.17 J'aimerais maintenant, Monsieur le Président, formuler quelques observations sur des  points plus spécifiques de notre ordre du jour. D'abord l'éducation. Pour que l'Unesco puisse  réorienter son action en matière d'éducation - en accord avec les principes directeurs qu'elle  s'est fixés - il faut lui assurer les moyens de faire de nouvelles expériences, avec les risques  qu'elles comportent. L'Unesco ne peut en assumer entièrement la charge : d'autres institutions  nationales ou régionales doivent y contribuer. Mais il appartient à l'Unesco de jouer, en toutes  circonstances, le rôle de catalyseur. Ces expériences ont pour but de susciter des activités édu-  catives propres à développer la créativité et non pas simplement à assurer un transfert de connais-  sances ou de modèles.
10.18 On ne peut concevoir l'homme uniquement comme un facteur de production ; l'éducation doit  naturellement être liée au développement, mais cela ne veut pas dire que la politique éducative  doive satisfaire uniquement les exigences de la technocratie. Le respect des valeurs spirituelles  de l'être humain interdit de soumettre étroitement l'école aux besoins du marché du travail. Il  faut concilier les deux tendances et s'efforcer d'établir un équilibre entre les droits de l'individu  et ses devoirs envers la société.
10.19 En ce qui concerne la science et ses applications, nous sommes certains que l'Unesco,  quelle que soit l'imprécision de ses attributions en matière de technologie, possède des caracté -  ristiques irremplaçables qui la vouent à jouer un rôle de premier plan dans l'entreprise visant à  mettre la science et la technologie au service du développement dans laquelle s'est engagé tout le  système des Nations Unies. La préparation et la réalisation de la grande conférence sur la  science et la technologie qui doit se tenir en 1979 fourniront à l'Unesco et aux Etats membres  l'occasion de faire le point sur leur situation et leurs besoins. Cette entreprise, qui doit être  menée dans l'intérêt de tous les Etats, devra cependant, pour des raisons évidentes, être confiée  à un secrétaire général qualifié, venant d'un pays en voie de développement.
10.20 Les introductions du Directeur général aux documents C/4 et C/5 sont extrêmement perti-  nentes et correspondent à une saine vision des problèmes de ce secteur. L'essentiel, ici, est de  faciliter aux pays en voie de développement la production autochtone de la technologie qui leur est  indispensable. 1
10.21 Dans le domaine de l'information scientifique et technique, le Directeur général soumet à  notre choix une alternative difficile en ce qui concerne 1'UNISIST. La fusion de tous les domaines  de l'information relevant de la compétence de l'Unesco en un seul programme correspondant à un  seul objectif est évidemment logique, et, théoriquement du moins, satisferait mieux les besoins  des pays en voie de développement en matière d'informations sur les sciences fondamentales et  les diverses disciplines, les aidant à exécuter des travaux de recherche concrets. D'autre part,  le gonflement du programme UNISIST qui finit par déborder le domaine scientifique et technique  - le mieux maftrisable par la machine - risque de nous faire perdre des années dans un dédale  méthodologique, alors que nos besoins sont urgents, Souhaitons que les débats de la Conférence  générale permettent de dégager sur cette question une solution vraiment constructive.
10.22 Quant au programme SPINES relatif à l'information en matière de politiques scientifiques  et technologiques, les études préliminaires effectuées sont hautement positives et il est regret-  table que tous les pays développés ne veuillent pas contribuer à ce programme dès à présent. Il  faut tout au moins qu'un projet pilote suffisamment ample, financé sur le budget ordinaire de  l'Unesco, soit lancé sans délai.
10.23 Le Brésil tient à déclarer ici, comme il l'a fait aux Nations Unies et au PNUE, que la con-  servation de l'environnement ne doit pas entraîner une stagnation des régions les plus pauvres du  globe. Ce qui est nécessaire, c'est de procéder a une vaste réorganisation de l'économie mondiale,  de manière à corriger les disparités criantes, tant dans la répartition des moyens de production”  que dans les modèles de consommation.
10.24 J'en viens maintenant aux sciences sociales et humaines. Dans la conjoncture internationale  actuelle, la tâche fondamentale et urgente des sciences sociales et humaines est de contribuer au  développement des peuples, et cela de trois manières : d'abord par l'étude des conditions natu-  relles et historiques de l'essor économique, ensuite par l'évaluation des besoins sociaux auxquels  doivent répondre les politiques de croissance nationales, enfin par l'évaluation des effets matériels  du développement sur la qualité de la vie de la société,
10.25 Le Brésil estime qu'il faut accorder une priorité absolue aux recherches menées aux niveaux  national et régional étant donné qu'une science sociale universelle serait une vaine abstraction.  Les sciences qui ont pour objet l'étude des sociétés humaines doivent s'adapter aux spécificités  de chaque société. Telle est, à notre avis, la seule garantie de l'efficacité de la contribution des  sciences sociales au progrès des nations.
10.26 En ce qui concerne la culture, notre Organisation doit-s'efforcer avant tout d'approfondir  le concept d'identité culturelle des peuples et d'assurer le respect de leur diversité. Un tel effort  est sans aucun doute la condition primordiale de la mise en place de programmes endogènes de  développement, tels que nous les avons définis. Dans ce domaine, le Brésil accorde la plus haute  importance aux études régionales, Il se félicite notamment que l'accent soit mis sur les cultures  des pays en voie de développement et apprécie l'action remarquable menée par l'Unesco pour pré -  server et revaloriser le patrimoine culturel de ces pays. Signalons à ce propos les études qui ont  été entreprises pour adapter les ensembles historiques aux nécessités de la vie moderne, comme  c'est le cas, par exemple, pour les quartiers anciens des grandes villes.
10.27 J'en arrive enfin à l'information. En ce qui concerne le problème de l'information, la posi-  tion du Brésil peut se résumer de la manière suivante : assurer d'une part l'équilibre nécessaire  entre le droit à l'information - y compris le droit du pays qui la reçoit de se protéger contre ce  qui peut porter préjudice à son intégrité politique et culturelle - et la liberté d'informer, et  remédier d'autre part au caractère unilatéral des courants d'information qui vont toujours des  pays développés vers les pays en développement. La conséquence de cette situation n'est autre  qu'une uniformisation mondiale des valeurs qui restreint les possibilités de développement à  quelques modèles préétablis. On comprend, dès lors, l'importance que revêt, pour les. pays en  développement, la protection de leurs productions nationales dans ce domaine, en tant que moyen  de contrebalancer le contrôle que les pays industrialisés exercent en fait sur l'information,
10.28 Je conclurai par quelques remarques sur l'administration. L'un des grands problèmes  administratifs de l'Unesco est de s'adapter à la nouvelle planification à moyen terme. Il nous  semble évident que le programme, qui sera de plus en plus étroitement lié aux objectifs à moyen  terme de l'Organisation, devra tendre à l'interdisciplinarité et qu'il sera nécessaire à l'avenir  soit de réorganiser totalement l'administration en fonction de ces objectifs, soit d'établir un  système efficace de coordination intersectorielle. Il sera aussi nécessaire de prévoir un méca-  nisme d'évaluation des projets, notamment du point de vue de leurs coûts et des résultats obtenus.
10.29 Je me suis efforcé dans cette intervention de suivre de près les problèmes concrets de  notre Organisation. Puisse la Conférence générale s'intéresser, au cours de ses travaux, à ces  suggestions, formulées par un représentant d'un Etat membre qui désire sincèrement que l'Unesco  affronte plus forte, plus dynamique et plus efficace, cette nouvelle et difficile phase de son  existence. Merci, Monsieur le Président.  (Mr. Wijekulasuriya, Sri Lanka, took the chair.)
11. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Brazil and I now give the floor to H. E. Mr. Paul Akoto Yao,  Minister of National Education, head of the delegation of Ivory Coast.
12.1 M. AKOTO YAO (Côte d'Ivoire). -  Monsieur le Président, mes chers collègues, Mesdames, Messieurs, que la voix de la Côte  d'Ivoire s'ajoute à toutes celles, éloquentes, que nous avons déjà écoutées dans cette majestueuse  enceinte, soit pour manifester notre compassion à nos frères d'Indonésie douloureusement éprouvés,  soit pour nous réjouir de notre présence en cette terre si vieille et si jeune à la fois d'Afrique,  soit enfin pour saluer les nouveaux membres de notre Organisation. Voilà qui ne saurait en la  circonstance surprendre, et la sincérité de nos sentiments à cet égard ne fait aucun doute.
12.2 Je viens donc à cette tribune, Monsieur le Président, apporter le témoignage de l'amitié  chaleureuse et fraternelle de la Côte d'Ivoire au peuple frère du Kenya, ainsi qu'à tous les peuples  et nations dont les éminents délégués participent à cette conférence. Je saisis cette occasion pour  vous féliciter, Monsieur le Président, de votre élection unanime à la place qui est la vôtre durant  nos assises. J'y vois non seulement la marque de vos talents personnels, qui ont été déjà briève-  ment soulignés, mais aussi, et surtout, le juste prix payé à l'hospitalité de votre pays de rêve et
20 aux qualités remarquables de votre chef d'Etat, dont la dimension et la notorité. dépassent large-  ment les frontières du Kenya. Je me fais enfin le messager du président Félix Houphouet-Boigny  pour transmettre son salut fraternel à son frère afné, le président Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, ainsi que  l'expression de sa vive admiration et de sa sincère amitié.
12.3 Monsieur le Directeur général, vous savez l'enthousiasme que votre nomination, à la tête de  cette Organisation, a suscité dans mon pays, et vous ne pouvez ignorer en quelle estime le prési-  dent Houphouet-Boigny vous tient. Les paroles affectueuses et pleines d'admiration qu'il vous a  adressées au mois de mai dernier, au Siège de l'Unesco à Paris, sont là pour vous rappeler que  l'appui de la Côte d'Ivoire vous reste acquis aujourd'hui encore, comme demain, à l'image de  l'attention soutenue que vous a toujours accordée son Président. D'ailleurs, sa visite au Siège au  cours de votre mandat est un signe évident de l'intérêt tout particulier qu'il accorde à votre per-  sonne et à notre Organisation. Autant dire que vos soucis restent les nôtres, et que dans la lutte  que vous menez avec une ardeur admirable, une foi sans égale et une conviction de tous les instants  au service de l'Unesco, vous pouvez toujours compter sur notre ferme soutien et notre sollicitude  agissante. Comment pourrait-il en être autrement lorsque la cause défendue est la bonne et que  les forces du mal, d'où qu'elles viennent, ne sauraient en aucune manière altérer votre vigilance  et votre souci d'oeuvrer en vue d'une humanité plus juste et plus heureuse ?
12.4 Nous savons, ainsi que le soulignait le président Houphouet-Boigny à Paris à l'intention des  membres du Conseil exécutif, que "face aux menaces grandissantes qui se profilent à l'horizon,  il importe que nos pays, dépassant les courants d'idéologie qui peuvent nous diviser et paralyser  nos actions, prennent enfin conscience de leurs intérêts communs et de leur force, pour les  organiser et les mieux formuler, afin de peser ainsi, au profit de nos peuples, beaucoup plus  que nous ne l'avons fait jusqu'ici, sur le cours de l'histoire contemporaine".
12.5 Oui, la Côte d'Ivoire, en s'intégrant à la grande famille de l'Unesco, au lendemain de son  indépendance, savait à quoi elle s'engageait, et mon pays est loin d'être la terre du renoncement  et de l'irresponsabilité. L'acte constitutif de notre Organisation, par les objectifs visés et les  finalités auxquelles il aspire, répond à notre désir de nous insérer dans le concert des nations  avec l'idée bien arrêtée de lutter pour l'instauration d'un monde meilleur, garanti par une paix  qui ne saurait se concevoir comme un rêve désespéré, mais comme une réalité que notre obstina-  tion doit contribuer à créer, maintenir et entretenir. Le président Houphouet-Boigny a dit : "La  paix, qui a constamment besoin d'exhortations, est une acquisition continue, le plus souvent silen-  cieuse, et les succès, en ce domaine, sont le contraire de victoires tapageuses et ne se traduisent  pas en millions de tonnes de production, ni en savantes statistiques commerciales. " En Côte  d'Ivoire, parce que nous croyons que l'Unesco a toujours oeuvré, par l'éducation autant que par la  culture et la science, à la réalisation d'un monde de compréhension et de solidarité agissante,  nous demeurons persuadés aussi que rien de durable et de solide ne peut se concevoir et se faire  par l'éducation, sans patience soutenue, sans tolérance et sans amour profond de l'autre.
12.6 Que les injustices intolérables dont sont victimes nombre d'hommes sur notre planète, et  sous des régimes se réclamant tous d'idéologies oeuvrant pour le bonheur de l'homme, que les  misères insoutenables qui restent le lot de la majorité de l'humanité fassent donc l'objet de notre  commune réprobation, quoi de plus normal puisque, de toute évidence, le constat est criant et  déprimant ! Mais que la solution ne puisse s'envisager uniquement que par la force et dans la force,  dans des attitudes de matamores aux abois loin des foyers de guerre, ou par des cris d'indignation  cachant mal une impuissance certaine à répondre au défi, voilà qui ne saurait être notre chemin  à nous, Ivoiriens. Non pas que nous soyons plus résignés que d'autres ou que la veulerie nous  étouffe, mais parce que nous restons convaincus que la guerre n'a jamais définitivement résolu  aucun problème. L'histoire, depuis l'origine des temps, est là pour nous en convaincre, s'il est  encore permis de douter d'une telle assertion.
12.7 Le monde est un, et on ne peut en rejeter quiconque pour mieux le convaincre de sa solida-  rité avec les autres ; c'est cette vérité que, dans le langage imagé de mon terroir, les paysans  traduisent en disant que ''nul n'est insensé au point de rejeter une partie de son corps parce que  celle-ci ne répond pas à ses désirs''. La paix doit être l'oeuvre de tous, et pour la réussite de  cette audacieuse entreprise la Côte d'Ivoire a choisi la voix du dialogue constructif, conçu dans  un large esprit de tolérance et de respect d'autrui et de ses arguments, quoi que nous puissions  penser de la force convaincante ou de la crédibilité de ces arguments. Il ne sert à rien de se poser  en ange exterminateur et en conscience du monde, car ''la haine n'est pas indispensable, non plus  que le mépris, pour élever des barrières entre les hommes''. Tel est l'avertissement du président  Houphouet-Boigny, et c'est pourquoi la Côte d'Ivoire souhaite qu'à Nairobi la raison nous habite  et nous aide à enterrer à jamais la hache de guerre que la déraison d'autres hommes nous amène  à brandir si souvent, mais jusqu'ici en vain. Il est, dit-on, des morts utiles que nous devons  saluer pour les idéaux qu'ils ont défendus et l'héroïsme qui les a caractérisés, mais comme il  serait mieux encore que nous fussions tous vivants pour bâtir l'humanité de justice et de fraternité  rêve et dessein de toujours, de tous les hommes, depuis la nuit des temps !
12.8 L'Unesco, quelles que puissent être les raisons des attitudes diverses prises à son égard,  a accompli une immense mission novatrice à laquelle, pour notre part, nous croyons, Nous y  avons cru hier lorsque nous avons souscrit aux exigences de son Acte constitutif et lorsque, il y a  bientôt sept ans, nous avons engagé avec elle la grande politique de rénovation de notre enseigne-  ment primaire par l'utilisation de la télévision, comme moyen au service de l'acte pédagogique.
774   Il est en effet inutile de rappeler que la demande massive de nos populations, en matière d'éduca-  tion au lendemain de notre accession à l'indépendance, ne pouvait se concevoir sans que se pose  l'inévitable problème des maîtres, de leur qualification et, du coup, le problème du niveau même  de notre enseignement. Après des tentatives diverses pour répondre à cette demande comme pour  adapter les programmes aux réalités socioculturelles de notre pays et de son développement, le  bilan n'incita point à l'optimisme. Aussi avons-nous eu recours à la télévision, utilisée comme  école normale permanente au service de la formation continue des maîtres, mais aussi comme  moyen efficace d'incitation à une pédagogie plus active, mettant en éveil la curiosité de l'enfant  et exigeant en permanence du maître esprit d'initiative et imagination créatrice dans l'exploitation  du message offert par l'image.
12.9 Les résultats, par-delà les essais et erreurs multiples qu'impose une entreprise de telle  envergure, sont fort satisfaisants, et mon pays met au service de l'humanité les acquis bénéfiques  ainsi obtenus. Nous sommes donc prêts à accueillir tous les représentants d'autres pays désireux  de venir voir nos écoles et nos élèves d'un type nouveau, afin qu'ils puissent peut-être s'inspirer  de nos efforts et de nos succès, pour nourrir les leurs et les adapter à leur génie propre. Nous  remercions ceux qui nous ont fait confiance et qui sont déjà venus nombreux nous voir ou entre-  tiennent avec nous des rapports des plus enrichissants et des plus fraternels. Nous espérons que  l'Unesco nous aidera à faire connaître notre oeuvre commune à ceux des Etats membres qui  pourraient être intéressés, mais que retient encore le doute ou l'incroyance. La Côte d'Ivoire,  pour sa part, a fait son devoir et a honoré ses engagements vis-à-vis de tous les pays en dévelop-  pement en acceptant le défi, avec la certitude que son pari, qu'elle ne devait en aucune manière  perdre, servira, par son succès, la cause de l'éducation à travers le monde.
12.10 Nous croyons aujourd'hui encore en l'Unesco, et c'est pourquoi nous souscrivons sans  réserve au programme établi par le Directeur général ainsi qu'à toutes les propositions nouvelles  qu'il a cru de son devoir de faire, afin que cette dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale  aboutisse à un succès total. j
12.11 Nous souhaitons que la coopération de l'Unesco avec notre pays connaisse une vigueur nou-  velle dans le domaine de la culture, où notre patrimoine riche et varié gagnera à être préservé.  Dans ce domaine, nos préoccupations rejoignent celles du Sénégal pour ce qui est de la prise en  compte d'une culture négro-africaine authentique comme valeur de civilisation, et l'Unesco devra  aider à cette réhabilitation et à cette promotion. Par ailleurs, dans un monde de destruction  aveugle de la nature, l'exemple rassurant du Kenya, terre où les animaux sont encore rois, est  là pour nous convaincre qu'aucun effort ne saurait être négligé pour préserver nos forêts, nos  savanes. L'expérience de sauvegarde de la forêt primaire de Tal, dans l'est ivorien, l'aménage-  ment de nos parcs nationaux et les programmes de recherche scientifique qui s'y rattachent, voilà  des domaines où nous attendons encore le concours de l'Unesco, qui devra mobiliser les efforts  d'autres organisations pour nous aider,
12.12 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, la détermination de tous en faveur de l'éta-  blissement d'une harmonie économique et sociale dans le monde retient tout particulièrement notre  attention. Force nous est de saluer ici la volonté et le courage avec lesquels le Directeur général  a su définir aussi bien le fondement éthique de ce concept que la dynamique opérationnelle suscep-  tible de nous éviter les sentiers battus.
12.13 Aussi est-ce avec une résolution et une conviction toute particulières que la délégation  ivoirienne soutiendra toutes les dispositions propres à permettre la formulation d'un programme  précis au service à la fois du transfert des technologies et de l'utilisation équilibrée, entre nations  hautement équipées et pays en développement, des grands moyens d'information en vue de la sup-  pression progressive des barrières culturelles et du rapprochement entre les peuples. À ce stade,  que l'on me permette de préciser que ceux qui détiennent les grands moyens d'information ne doivent  selon nous les utiliser, lorsqu'ils s'adressent aux autres peuples, que pour leur transmettre ce  qui peut enrichir et féconder leur identité propre.
12.14 Nous disons enfin un mot d'une des conséquences heureuses du nouvel ordre économique  international, c'est-à-dire le développement endogène d'infrastructures et d'équipements suscep-  tibles de constituer des structures d'accueil, de valorisation et d'adaptation des technologies  avancées. À ce sujet, nous attendons de la coopération internationale qu'elle permette à nos par-  tenaires de bonne volonté de nous apprendre à nous aider nous-mêmes afin de pouvoir mieux par-  ticiper à la mise en valeur de toutes nos ressources. Seule une telle attitude, portant en elle  l'espoir de produire dans nos Etats des effets multiplicateurs profitables à terme pour tous  - donateurs d'aujourd'hui ou pays en développement - mérite qu'on s'y arrête.
12,15 Enfin, nous croyons encore en l'Unesco et nous y croirons demain plus encore, parce que,  comme l'a dit le président Houphouet-Boigny, "l'Unesco, par ses travaux et ses réflexions, saura  témoigner de ces espoirs, de cette quête légitime vers le progrès et le bonheur de l'humanité, et  apporter sa pierre à la construction d'un monde de liberté moins formelle, de rapports plus justes  et plus fraternels entre les hommes, d'équilibre et de paix plus profonde entre les nations .
12.16 Le message que le chef de l'Etat ivoirien a adressé au Directeur général à l'occasion du  trentième anniversaire de notre Organisation est l'exemple le plus récent de fervent témoignage  de mon pays, soucieux d'entretenir avec l'Unesco les rapports les plus confiants.
20 12.17 Puisse Nairobi, terre africaine et par suite terre de sagesse et de profonde sérénité,  donner une impulsion nouvelle à notre Organisation et entretenir la flamme de la compréhension  universelle. Si tel est notre sentiment à tous, alors la Côte d'Ivoire vous dit : Merci.
13. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Ivory Coast and I call upon H.E. Dr. J. Tiayo de Oliveira,  Secretary-of-State for Scientific Research and head of the delegation of Portugal.
14.1 Mr. TIAYO DE OLIVEIRA (Portugal):  Mr. President, Mr. Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr. Director-General, ladies and  gentlemen, first of all, let me congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election, a just reward  for your work in education, and present also my compliments on the excellent way you have been  conducting this meeting.
14.2 Thanks are due, also, to the Kenyan Government, which has provided such an interesting  setting for the meeting which is being held on African soil, thus giving us a chance to see the mar-  velous land of Kenya.
14.3 I have the pleasure to present my heartfelt congratulations to the new Member States; allow  me, in particular, to refer to the People's Republic of Mozambique and also the People's Republic  of Angola which will very shortly be a member.
14.4 It is a privilege to speak today, just after the beautiful celebration of the thirtieth anniversary  of the founding of Unesco which I had the pleasure to attend. Yesterday, our Prime Minister joined  the celebration by making a televised declaration on the purposes of the Organization and the inter-  r Government in its activities; other actions are being taken to contribute to the celebrations.  ests of ou
14.5 Mr. President, "All rebels originate a new orthodoxy', as the great mathematician and philos-  opher Bertrand Russell says somewhere. I think that the time is ripe for this prophecy to become  obsolete. And in our dialectical, simultaneously large and small world, where everything is inter-  connected with everything and everyone is connected to everyone, I think that the fulfilment of a  varied personality, which must be allowed to grow, develop and perfect itself, will render this  prophecy untrue. One of the purposes of Unesco is to help the way, and the fight, to this bright  route we are hoping for, by building a new social and economic order, with no colonialism or racism,  no imperialism or discrimination, with equality of opportunity for every culture, religion, ideology  and nation. The earth must be one and every citizen should be free to live anywhere, to travelany-  where, to realize himself to the best of his own capabilities, integrated in a world which is changing  with increasing speed and where the different ways of seeing man, life and society can flourish and  develop.
14.6 Being a student of pure science, I think that science and its daughter technology can make a  major contribution to the attainment of this aim. The pursuit of truth, according to what we call  "the Greek tradition", overcoming the myth and magic of primitive civilizations and merely empiri-  cal technical solutions, can yield ever-growing knowledge of the world, the essential features of its  behaviour, the dynamics of its development. Science and culture are then the essential elements  for building up the future of mankind which we hope will be open and bright. But unhappily there  are many large areas where quick action must be initiated so that the part of humanity living inin-  human conditions can attain a full state of citizenship as soon as possible and enjoy life. Is that a  pious hope, belonging to the realm of Utopia? I think not. And Unesco, the membership of which  embraces almost all the countries of the world, by co-ordinated and lucid action, can be a decisive  force for transcending the frontiers of physical and spiritual necessity and underdevelopment.
14.7 In the field of technology we find, in the most clear-cut manner, the features of what mankind  has to overcome. Illiteracy and ecological destruction, food and energy problems, the status of  minorities and of women, child unhappiness and epidemics, natural disasters and poverty, the popu-  lation explosion and wars are some of the predominant challenges of our time. Some of them were  also challenging questions in previous epochs in history. They seem - perhaps because we are  living through them, perhaps because world-wide communications keep us informed of them wher-  ever they occur - more striking today. And if we want to build a bright future, such that every  human life is to be fulfilled completely, we must be equal to this challenge and dispel step by step  the dark shadows that cloud this turn of the century. The future is open. But, to follow the right  road, we must attain the peaceful federation of man by world-wide democratic education, with a  natural understanding of ethnic cultures and strong co-operation between peoples, nations and coun-  tries. This is one of the most important tasks.
14.8 About forty years ago, the problems that were being faced at that time led some scholars to  suggest a moratorium on scientific research. It was a withdrawal from their responsibilities and  from the duties of citizenship which, in practical terms, meant opening the way to Nazism. This  traumatic, tremendous and tragic experience led, after World War II, to the founding of the United  Nations and its Specialized Agencies, such as Unesco. Obviously, in our own time, after so much  has been achieved, after new frontiers have been crossed, no one would dare to suggest the same  could occur again. But, it may happen that the technocratic outlook will be advocated. The idea  that science and culture should turn, by preference, to pursue essentially technical solutions is  akin to the proposal made forty years ago that there should be a moratorium.
14.9 Restrictions on science and culture could lead us, probably very quickly, to the ominous  "Brave New World" of Aldous Huxley, where we find technological stability with well cared for and  well fed slaves with the right of thought restricted to a few suitably selected individuals. This is  not what we wish: science and poetry, culture and art belong to the wisdom of mankind. We do not  think that the Unesco project of contributing to a new social and economic world order lessens the  necessity of achieving free contacts of human thoughts.
14.10 I think, however, that technology has its own ambivalence. It can be used in a wrong or in  a right way. Almost the same technology can improve equality of opportunity or increase inequality,  can be used for the benefit of masters and the distress of slaves or for promoting progressively  greater equality among men. Here we have the point at which the technocratic vision is clearly in-  sufficient, not being tempered by humanistic wisdom. But humanism does not come from one side  only: religions and philosophies, ideologies and ethnic cultures, philosophers, poets, scientists,  thinkers, have contributed to it in a multidimensional way. Throughout history they have, step by  step, confronted the wrong, although tentatively in many cases, often slowly - as when Socrates  called a slave and began to teach him geometry, opening thus the movement that ended with the  formal end of slavery in the last century - more quickly on other occasions. But the world is more  and more one. Its wisdom must be multifaceted, projecting itself in all directions.
14.11 I think that the community of destinies makes it imperative that technologies should be inte-  grated in their natural environment, using the local scientific potential, avoiding intellectual colon-  ization, so that countries and ethnic cultures should not be distorted, and permitting an endogenous  development. Experiments have been made which ignored this rule, and ended in failure. Those  experiments must be borne in mind and never repeated; natural diversity should not be destroyed.  Regional development is thus a necessary step.
14.12 A country like Portugal, although with some problems of development, is strongly interested  in this trend. Our history has brought us into contact with all parts of the world. After the libera-  tion two-and-half years ago, we joined many democratic international organizations and we are  interested in co-operating with regional groups. The programme of the Constitutional Government  is in line with the Unesco programme and is designed to develop and extend education, and to pro-  mote co-operation with Portuguese-speaking peoples. We will do our best in the trend we are hoping  for. There are, however, many challenges to our time, in our countries. Science, culture and  education are the weapons to overcome them. We will win. Thank you.
15. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished head of the delegation of Portugal. Mr. G. Malemprë, President of  the Standing Committee of Non-Governmental Organizations, now has the floor.
16.1 M. MALEMPRE (Comité permanent des organisations internationales non gouvernementales). -  Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les ambassadeurs, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames  Messieurs, ainsi que l'a rappelé M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, directeur général de l'Unesco, dans  le discours qu'il a prononcé lors de la séance d'ouverture de la 15e Conférence des organisations  internationales non gouvernementales tenue a Paris en novembre dernier, 1'Acte constitutif de  l'Unesco proclame ''qu'une paix fondée sur les seuls accords économiques et politiques des gouver-  nements ne saurait entraîner l'adhésion unanime, durable et sincère des peuples et que, par con-  séquent, cette paix doit être établie sur le fondement de la solidarité intellectuelle et morale de  l'humanité"'.
16.2 Pour atteindre cet objectif, les fondateurs de l'Unesco ont recherché le moyen d'associer  plus étroitement les peuples à l'élaboration et à l'exécution de la politique de l'Organisation. C'est  ainsi que l'association étroite à l'action de l'Unesco des organisations internationales non gouver-  nementales qui m'ont mandaté pour prendre la parole aujourd'hui a permis à l'Organisation de  dépasser le cadre intergouvernemental en nouant des liens avec des éléments représentatifs de  l'opinion publique nationale et internationale.
16.3 L'objectif de paix qui est le nôtre demande à être précisé dans le contexte des réalités vécues  par les peuples en ce dernier quart du siècle. La paix n'est pas un principe moral abstrait, mais  plutôt la résultante d'une manière de vivre collectivement à un moment donné de l'histoire de  l'humanité. Il importe donc d'observer et de bien connaître les réalités sociales dans lesquelles  s'établissent aujourd'hui les rapports entre les collectivités humaines.
16.4 Que constatons-nous ? Une situation explosive caractérisée par des déséquilibres outranciers.  Le premier déséquilibre se manifeste dans la satisfaction des besoins élémentaires de larges  couches de la population mondiale. Des millions de personnes meurent chaque année de la faim,  L'analphabétisme, les maladies et les autres maux du sous-développement restent une calamité  qui pèse sur la majorité des populations. Le deuxième déséquilibre se constate entre le besoin de  sécurité et les moyens militaires offensifs mis en oeuvre par les nations. Le troisième déséqui-  libre, nous le trouvons dans l'organisation et la répartition du pouvoir tant politique et économique  que social.
16.5 De nombreux témoignages nous parviennent de certains membres nationaux d'organisations  internationales non gouvernementales ayant des relations de consultation avec l'Unesco, qu'il  TT
20 s'agisse d'organisations éducatives ou culturelles, de mouvements de travailleurs et d'organisa-  tions syndicales, de mouvements de jeunesse ou encore d'organismes à vocation sociale et huma-  nitaire : ces témoignages, qui font état de la souffrance quotidienne des gens, qu'ils aient faim,  soif, qu'ils soient les victimes de la guerre ou encore l'objet des sévices corporels les plus  ignobles, incitent les organisations non gouvernementales à multiplier leurs efforts pour mettre  fin à ces déséquilibres qui sont la plupart du temps la source des conflits et, dans ce but, de  rechercher des solutions positives au désordre économique, social et politique du monde actuel,  en vue de contribuer à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre mondial permettant le développement de  tous et l'application effective de la Déclaration universelle des droits de l'homme. Ce n'est qu'à  ce prix que l'on pourra parvenir à promouvoir la justice entre les hommes et à instaurer une paix  qui soit autre chose que le silence des canons.
16.6 Monsieur le Président, les organisations internationales non gouvernementales sont des  organismes volontaires, constitués pour encourager la réalisation d'objectifs scientifiques, péda-  gogiques ou humanitaires et promouvoir la coopération entre les peuples. Quels que puissent être  leurs activités ou objectifs précis dans les différents domaines dont elles s'occupent, les ONG  sont profondément attachées à la défense de la paix et au respect des droits de l'homme et leur  action s'inscrit donc tout naturellement dans le programme de l'Unesco. Du fait qu'elles repré-  sentent les différents secteurs de l'opinion publique, elles peuvent jouer, et jouent en fait, un  rôle considérable tant sur le plan national que sur le plan international, apportant ainsi un com-  plément indispensable aux efforts et à l'action des gouvernements et des organismes officiels.
16.7 La Conférence générale est saisie du rapport sexennal du Conseil exécutif sur le concours  apporté à l'action de l'Unesco par les organisations internationales non gouvernementales des  catégories’A et B - il s'agit du document 19 C/38. Ce rapport souligne combien ces dernières  années l'activité des organisations non gouvernementales a contribué à la poursuite des idéaux  et à la réalisation des objectifs de l'Unesco, Au cours du débat qui a suivi la présentation de ce  rapport devant la Commission III, plusieurs délégations ont insisté pour que les organisations  internationales non gouvernementales s'efforcent de refléter toujours mieux la diversité culturelle  du monde par la multiplication de leurs membres nationaux, notamment dans les pays en voie de  développement. A ce sujet, je puis vous assurer, Monsieur le Président, de la volonté des ONG  de s'étendre géographiquement, malgré les faibles ressources financières dont elles disposent  pour la plupart. Mais cela implique sur le plan national que les organisations volontaires puissent  disposer d'un statut leur garantissant un minimum de liberté d'association, de réunion, d'infor-  mation et d'expression. Une coopération accrue entre les commissions nationales et les ONG  pourrait également contribuer largement à la réalisation des voeux exprimés ici par de nombreuses  délégations. .
16.8 Il me paraît essentiel de souligner que l'activité qui est évaluée dans le rapport sexennal  n'est qu'une expression que j'oserais qualifier de symbolique de l'immense activité déployée par  les organisations volontaires à caractère non lucratif un peu partout dans le monde. Le rapport  se limite, en effet, à une évaluation de l'action des ONG qui bénéficient d'une aide financière de  l'Unesco. Or, la plupart d'entre elles contribuent au développement de l'éducation, de la science  et de la culture et donc à la promotion des objectifs de l'Unesco à titre bénévole, au moyen de  leurs ressources propres. En vue de garantir - voir d'intensifier - la coopération entre l'Unesco  et les ONG en ce qui concerne leurs objectifs communs, il me paraît essentiel que les moyens  financiers prévus à cet effet puissent à tout le moins progresser au même rythme que le budget  général de l'Organisation. Il y a lieu de considérer tout particulièrement les contrats conclus  avec des organisations compétentes comme un moyen efficace et économique pour l'Organisation  de réaliser certains des objectifs du programme.
16.9 Aux termes des directives concernant les relations de l'Unesco avec les organisations inter-  nationales non gouvernementales, celles-ci ont la possibilité de prendre part à l'élaboration des  orientations et du programme de l'Unesco, d'une part individuellement, par des échanges entre  le Secrétariat et chacune des organisations ayant le statut consultatif et, d'autre part, collective-  ment, tout d'abord sous forme de consultations collectives sectorielles, dont le rapport sexennal  rappelle qu'elles "'ont pour but de recueillir les avis et les propositions d'un nombre restreint  d'ONG, dont la compétence porte sur certains aspects du programme de l'Unesco''. C'est ainsi  que se sont développées ces dernières années les consultations sectorielles dans les domaines de  l'éducation, de la jeunesse et du développement culturel. À titre d'exemple, on peut mentionner  la rencontre annuelle du secteur de l'éducation avec les grandes organisations syndicales mondiales  pour discuter notamment des questions relatives à l'éducation des adultes. Les directives pré-  voient aussi une forme de consultation collective globale. La section V de ces directives stipule  que "les organisations internationales non gouvernementales admises dans les catégories À et B  pourront, avec l'accord du Directeur général, se réunir tous les deux ans en conférence au Siège  de l'Unesco, en vue d'examiner les problèmes que pose leur coopération avec l'Unesco et de faci-  liter la coopération entre les organisations ayant des intérêts communs”.
16.10 La 15e Conférence des ONG, qui s'est tenue à Paris en novembre dernier, a formulé un  certain nombre de recommandations, lesquelles ont été communiquées au Secrétariat de l'Unesco,  ainsi qu'à d'autres institutions du système des Nations Unies. Il en découle également un plan de  travail biennal qui prévoit notamment au titre de la contribution des ONG aux consultations collee-  tives, l'organisation de trois colloques et d'une table ronde : un colloque sur la contribution des
778   ONG à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international dans les domaines de la compé-  tence de l'Unesco qui doit se tenir en décembre 1976 ; un colloque sur l'alphabétisation et l'éduca-  tion permanente ainsi qu'une table ronde sur l'éducation et l'emploi des jeunes prévus pour mars
1977 ; et, enfin, un colloque consacré aux incidences du désarmement sur le développement et à  l'éducation pour la paix qui doit se tenir en juin 1977.
16.11 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, un des documents de travail rédigés en vue  du colloque sur la contribution des ONG à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international  souligne notamment la nécessité de favoriser la paix et la coopération entre les peuples ainsi que  le respect des droits de l'homme, de contribuer à promouvoir les bases scientifiques et techniques  devant permettre à chaque Etat de mieux utiliser ses ressources naturelles, d'élargir et d'orienter  l'éducation afin de mettre la population de chaque pays en mesure de mieux comprendre la voie  choisie pour son développement et de maftriser celui-ci, de développer la communication et les  systèmes d'information et de favoriser, par le développement des sciences sociales, une réflexion  de chaque société sur elle-même pour l'aider à tirer le meilleur parti des instruments de change-  ment sans pour autant perdre son identité,
16.12 Peut-être pourrait-on résumer les objectifs d'un nouvel ordre économique international en  disant qu'il s'agit d'édifier un monde où la force ne primera plus le droit, où la puissance des  armes ou de l'économie n'aura plus raison de la liberté des nations et des peuples, où les cultures  nationales pourront s'épanouir, où un pays ne sera plus considéré comme développé lorsque des  catégories sociales y vivent dans la pauvreté, où les influences extérieures ne feront plus obstacle  au choix des citoyens quant à leur système économique et social.
16.13 Compte tenu de l'intérêt que nous portons à ces questions, il est impératif, Monsieur le  Président, que les ONG soient étroitement associées aux projets les concernant qui sont inscrits  au programme de l'Unesco. La lecture des documents 19 C/5 et 19 C/4 nous fait malheureusement  craindre que les perspectives d'association des ONG aux activités de l'Unesco pour la promotion  du nouvel ordre économique international soient insuffisantes. Le Comité permanent des ONG,  qui m'a mandaté pour prendre la parole en son nom, souhaiterait que la Conférence générale con-  sidère la coopération avec celles-ci comme l'un des moyens privilégiés d'exécution du programme,  notamment en ce qui concerne ces questions prioritaires,
16.14 Le rapport sexennal dont vous êtes saisis mentionne au paragraphe 38 l'existence d'un docu-  ment de travail portant sur la notion d'ONG et ses incidences sur le statut consultatif auprès de  l'Unesco qui a été accueilli favorablement par la 15e Conférence des ONG. Ce document a été  élaboré alors qu'un grand nombre d'organisations réunies à cette occasion exprimaient leur inquié-  tude à la pensée que l'Unesco pourrait, à un moment donné, modifier les principes sur lesquels  se sont développées jusqu'ici ses relations avec les ONG et ce, sans qu'aucune consultation appro-  fondie ait eu lieu entre les parties concernées. Etabli dans un esprit de compréhension mutuelle,  dans un souci de loyauté vis-à-vis des institutions des Nations Unies et dans le respect de l'Acte  constitutif de l'Unesco, ce document exprime l'état de nos réflexions sur la notion d'ONG - auto-  nomie, rôle et spécificité de leur action - la nature de leurs rapports avec l'Unesco, sur les plans  juridique et pratique, et, enfin, la convergence entre la mission de l'Unesco et les activités des  ONG.
16.15 Le Comité permanent que je préside souhaite que le dialogue qui s'est instauré avec le  Conseil exécutif, notamment à l'occasion de ses 99e et 100e sessions, dans le cadre du Comité  spécial des ONG, puisse se développer encore à l'avenir et être l'occasion d'un échange de vues  approfondi sur les points essentiels de ce document, de même que sur toutes les autres questions  d'intérêt commun qui pourraient se présenter à l'avenir. Je ne m'étendrai donc pas sur ce texte  dans le cadre de ce débat, si ce n'est pour souligner que les ONG sont appelées à représenter des  entités socioculturelles plutôt que politiques, étrangères en soi à la division de l'espace géogra-  phique et des sociétés humaines entre Etats.
16.16 Monsieur le Président, il ne fait pas de doute que pour promouvoir ses idéaux, l'Unesco a  besoin non seulement du plein concours des Etats, mais aussi de ces moyens de communiquer  avec les couches les plus humbles des populations que seules des organisations bénévoles peuvent  lui procurer grâce à leur rayonnement et à leurs activités. En prolongeant l'appareil des Etats et  des administrations, les ONG permettent à l'Organisation de devenir une véritable Unesco des  peuples et des personnes. Par leurs membres nationaux, elles se font l'expression des être  humains qui aspirent à connaître la paix et à hâter leur développement ; elle facilitent, dans un  monde agité, la création d'une atmosphère plus paisible, propice à l'épanouissement des plus  nobles capacités de l'esprit et du coeur. On ne peut imaginer, de nos jours, un ordre mondial des  Etats et des peuples qui n'engloberait pas la société ouverte et diversifiée des associations volon-  taires, sans but lucratif, différentes par leur nature des Etats.
16.17 Instrument des gouvernements, l'Unesco peut, grâce aux ONG, tendre vers une véritable  universalité et ainsi devenir une organisation au service de tous les peuples, c'est-à-dire du  développement, de la justice et de la paix entre les hommes. Je vous remercie. Monsieur le  Président.
20 17. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the President of the Standing Committee of Non-Governmental Organizations.  Dr. Rémolo Botto, permanent delegate of the Ibero-American Bureau of Education to Unesco, now  has the floor.
(18.1) Mr. BOTTO (Ibero-American Bureau of Education) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President of the General Conference, Mr. Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr. Director-General  of Unesco, special representatives of governments and international non-governmental organizations, per-  manent delegates, ladies and gentlemen: I have the honour to address you on behalf of the Ibero-American  Bureau of Education, an intergovernmental body for educational, scientifie, cultural and technological co-  operation among the Ibero-American countries which, in accordance with the international instrument duly  signed between Unesco and IBE, has had an accredited permanent delegation in Paris since 1959. My illus-  trious predecessor, Mr. Manuel Sito Alba, was the doyen of the representatives and observers of inter-  national organizations accredited in Paris.
(18.2) Mr. President, IBE is responsive to the needs of the modern world and pursues purposes in the  Spanish-speaking area which are convergent and consistent with the major objectives of Unesco. IBE is  striving to raise the intellectual level of a vast segment of humanity. Almost 300 million people speak the  language of Cervantes and are spiritually attuned to the intellectual trends of Hispanic culture if by this we  mean a belief, a course, a vocation, a destiny of nations and individuals indissolubly joined in kinship by  history on the basis of a language and an awareness of a common duty founded upon concepts which govern  human existence.
(18.3) Mr. President, the visible signs of the modern age assume forms that are often contradictory.  Man's genius is able to transcend the frontiers of space, and science and technology hold out vistas of un-  limited progress; but the scientific language unambiguously used by scientists in their laboratories to de-  fine the physical actions and reactions of matter that can now be split at will is not the same language em-  ployed to define the moral and ideological categories of universal man. Scientists have a common language;  their aims are precise and for this reason advances become irreversible. Pure science and technological  applications progress in a straight and rising line. The disparate language of ideology, on the other hand,  gives rise to struggles, conflicts, confrontations, doubts, misunderstandings and potentially warlike atti-  tudes. The result of this is that spiritual progress is frequently interrupted. The sense of what is right  therefore proceeds along paths of alternating light and shadow; but it would not be right for a scientific ad-  vance to be given practical priorities that conflict with human destiny.
(18.4) It is a well-known fact that immense fortunes and sophisticated science and technology are involved  in the arms race. It is said that financial resources amounting to 250, 000 million dollars per year are  spent on the manufacture of weapons. There are also horrifying statistics about the vast numbers of ignor-  antand destitute people. À quarter of the world's population is cut off from the sources of knowledge by illiter-  acy. We should also remember the vast multitude of close on a thousand million people who are left cul-  turally by the wayside. And a further alarming figure: of the 280 million human beings who populate Latin  America, 80 million - almost a third - are also illiterate.
(18.5) This subject is dear to me, as a colleague of one who has for long been the Chairman of the Inter-  national Consultative Liaison Committee for Literacy. I allude to the unique figure of Ambassador Barôn  Castro, Secretary-General of IBE, who has just finished presiding over the jury set up by Unesco to award  prizes for meritorious work in adult literacy.
(18.6) Mr. President, Unesco's work on behalf of peace, justice and the dignity of man represents the  brightest hope for the modern world. Should Unesco cease to illuminate the world from on high, there  would be an ideological decline. Unesco ranges over the entire subject of nature and of man: it cares for  and preserves the biosphere in order to improve the quality of life, and carries out the important task of  raising the moral, intellectual, cultural and spiritual level of the individual, in a spirit of justice, without  discrimination based on race or social origin. The universality of Unesco is the philosophical universality  that inspires IBE in carrying out its mission in the Ibero- American region of the world.
(18.7) Unesco establishes standards, performs actions and carries out programmes that are superbly and  faultlessly planned. The brilliant statements by its eminent Director-General, Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, are  developing into a set of principles destined for mankind. These ideas reflect a higher philosophy, incor-  porating lofty ethical values. Unesco's legal instruments constitute a protective shield for the suffering  individual and for the peoples subjected to gross injustice. Unesco indefatigably defends human rights in  all their forms, beginning with that which most requires protection, namely life itself, so often buffeted  by violent and unruly gales.
(18.8) From the scientific and technical point of view, Unesco possesses the latest intellectual advances in  its special fields of competence: education, science, culture and communication. In its legal instruments,  humanity can find a code of conduct based on justice. In its philosophy, humanity can find a body of concepts  that are unequivocal. And in its technological and scientific information, humanity possesses an invaluable  weapon with which to combat underdevelopment. Unesco offers fraternal aid to today's anguished world.
(18.9) Well might we say to the rising generations of this earth, in reply to their uneasy questioning:  "Follow and tread the path of Unesco, pursuing the cult of tolerance due to religions and gods'. But Unesco  is not the work of the gods; it is the work of men who heeded the dying call of other men, slain in the great-  est war of all times.
(18.10) Gentlemen, Unesco is celebrating its thirtieth anniversary, while the Ibero-American Bureau of  Education is in its twenty-seventh year of existence. The Secretary-General of IBE was also Chairman of  the Executive Board of Unesco, while I myself am no stranger to either organization. What I mean,  Mr. President, is that the world organization and the Ibero- American regional organization have long  worked side by side, linked by deeply cherished common ideals.
(18.11) In addition to the specific tasks relating to educational, scientific, cultural and technological co-  operation, IBE shares in the universal concerns of Unesco, the essence of which is expressed in the basic  document "Moving Towards Change"'.
(18.12) The Director-General's altruistic ideas on the new international economic order and the enlighten-  ing report by the Panel of Counsellors, which is composed of outstanding thinkers, teachers, rectors, so-  ciologists, economists, scientists, communicators and artists, deserve our unreserved support, together  with our congratulations and our wishes for the triumph of causes that are just.
(18.13) The biennial period between the eighteenth and nineteenth sessions of the General Conference was  a difficult one in the life of our two Organizations. Imbalances in the economic and financial situation had  repercussions on the work plans, despite which neither Unesco nor IBE reduced their planned activities.
(18.14) As far as the body which I represent is concerned, we did not cut back our publishing programme.  The Spanish edition of the Unesco review "Impact of Science on Society', which IBE finances out of its own  resources, continued to appear regularly. ''Irebi', the index of library science reviews which we publish  jointly with the Universidad argentina del Sur and the Instituto Bibliogrâfico Hispânico, continues to meet  public demand. Our official review "Plana'', published in airmail and ordinary editions, is read with deep  interest throughout Ibero- America and Spain.
(18.15) Our summaries of "Impact', put out in volumes entitled "Science and Development'', "Agriculture  and the Environment’, "Genetics and Heredity'' and "Natural Resources", fill an information gap in the  Western hemisphere. In paperback form, they provide serious information to a wide public, and are pub-  lished jointly by IBE and "'Promoci6n Cultural". We have brought out a second edition, of more than
20,000 copies, of the Spanish Academy's "'Actuales Normas Ortogréficas y Prosédicas', Angel Rosenblat's  philological masterpiece. The work by the distinguished Spanish academic, Angel Oliveros Alonso, entitled  "Los profesores ibero-americanos de educaci6n primaria' is distributed throughout Latin America.
(18.16) A monumental work, the "Diccionario de construcciôn y régimen de la lengua castellana', begun  by Rufino José Cuervo, a Colombian who died in Paris in 1911, and continued by the "Instituto Caro y  Cuervo!', will shortly be completed by the great scholar José Alvaro Porto Dapena, "Antonio de Nebrija"",  Associate Professor, under the auspices of the Ibero-American Bureau of Education.
(18.17) In addition to the work carried out by the IBE office in Paris, I should like to give due prominence  to that of other offices of the Ibero-American Bureau of Education located in Buenos Aires, New York,  Bogot4 and Geneva, which respond to the demands of large communities and major international institutions.  The list of fellowships awarded, technical assistance, meetings, conferences, symposia and courses organ-  ized and lectures given by reputable specialists, under the aegis of IBE, would be a long one.
20 (18.18) Finally, Mr. President, in October of last year, a second meeting was held, in Toledo, of Minis-  ters of Education of the Spanish-speaking world and Brazil. IBE provided the secretariat for this summit  meeting, which was a turning point in Ibero-American culture. And I was present at the very moment when  the Secretary-General of IBE and of the Conference introduced his epoch-making report on "The Spanish  language in the world".
(18.19) The question of our language is obviously intimately bound up with communication and spiritual  concerns in a vast human society. This is why we enthusiastically supported the most welcome proposal  of the eminent Ambassador of Panama to Unesco, Don Horacio Bustamante, and we are most grateful to  the Director-General, who suggested means of placing the use of Spanish on an equal footing with that of  other official languages which receive preferential treatment in Unesco. This proposal by the Panamanian  diplomat is in line with the policy of IBE and its Member States.
(18.20) As the permanent representative of IBE on the Spanish language Committee of Unesco, I should  like to express my gratitude to those colleagues who have worked so hard to defend the pristine values of  the language. Serving on the Bureau of the Committee, such learned scholars as the delegates of Colombia  and Spain, Mr. Juan Jacobo Munoz and Mr. Raimundo Pérez Hernändez, have made outstanding contributions.
(18.21) Universal organizations such as Unesco are representative of mankind, and at this level, moral  values are the preserve of no individual State. Unesco brings hope to world public opinion.
(18.22) At the solemn celebration of the twenty-fifth anniversary of Unesco (November 1971), I had the  honour to take the floor not merely as the ambassador and permanent delegate of my country, Uruguay,  but as the representative of the Latin American and Caribbean group, a most honourable task conferred on  me by the diplomatic representatives of the nations of the New World.
(18.23) Unesco today celebrates its thirtieth anniversary and I am participating in the ceremony as the  representative of a regional intergovernmental body, the Ibero-American Bureau of Education, taking the  place on this occasion, as Head of Mission, of the Secretary-General of IBE, Ambassador Rodolfo Barôn  Castro, who for twenty years has been the eminent spokesman in Unesco of the institution he has headed  with so much honour, affection and nobility of soul. Iregret thathe cannot be with us today, buthis absence  is due to temporary circumstances beyond his control.
(18.24) Mr. President, as we advance, new situations and opportunities arise. Twenty-five years, thirty  years, these are stages and cycles in the life of an institution which I revere. We in IBE share the sense  of obligation and the call of duty which are a response to the urgent demands of individuals and of nations.  We represent many inhabitants of the world. History, religions, cults, cultures, teachings and knowledge  bind the ancient Mother Country to the descendants of aboriginal peoples and immigrants from various coun-  tries round the Mediterranean basin as well as peoples from more distant regions. We nourish brotherly  feelings for different and distant societies, sharing with Unesco the respect that is due to all the cultures,  creeds and beliefs of other human communities. :
(18.25) Mr. President, Unesco forms a centre of attraction through its work, whose genuine and compel-  ling motives we acknowledge. They place obligations on us, and we wish to state that, when this vitally  important Conference is over, IBE will apply programmes of even greater vigour in favour of the benefici-  aries of its work, co-ordinating its action with the Director-General in the Spanish-speaking area, in order  to achieve large-scale international correlations.
(18.26) We consider that we owe our full support to the Director-General, in the knowledge that he is a  leader of world opinion and a stout defender of the values which ensure the progressive development of  history.
(18.27) I present my thanks to the Government of Kenya for its friendly and outstanding hospitality, worthy  of a country which is making great progress in contemporary world society. Thank you very much.
19. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the permanent delegate of the Ibero-American Bureau of Education to Unesco. I now  give the floor to Mr. A. Shihepo, Deputy Secretary for Foreign Relations and head of the delegation  of the South West African People's Organization.
20.1 Mr. SHIHEPO (South West African People's Organization):  Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, Mr. Chairman of the Executive Board, your Excellen-  cies, honourable delegates, ladies and gentlemen: Allow me, Mr. President, on behalf of our  mighty national liberation movement, the South West African People's Organization (SWAPO), and  in the name of the brutally oppressed but diligently struggling people of Namibia, to express our  gratitude for the opportunity accorded to us to address this august assembly of the nineteenth session  of the General Conference of Unesco.
20.2 Mr. President, through you I would like to commend the Director-General for his untiring  efforts and concern about the infringement of human rights in Namibia by the racist and illegal  regime of South Africa in that country. This concern culminated in his presence and active partici-  pation in the Namibian International Conference on Human Rights held in Dakar in January 1976.  However, Mr. President, in spite of the efforts made by the Director-General, the invisible hand  of imperialism is actively busy day and night to strengthen the oppressive machinery of the racist  and illegal regime in Namibia by giving it unqualified support in terms of defence, finance, tech-  nology, mercenaries and ever-mounting investments. The same forces which so loudly advocate  the upholding of respect for human rights deem it their natural responsibility to frustrate any  meaningful and effective action by the United Nations through their veto power. This, Mr. President,  leaves the Namibian people with no alternative but to wage the liberation struggle from all angles,  including the armed struggle which is the only effective way of enabling us to restore our human  dignity and take our rightful position among other nations.
20.3 Mr. President, we are aware that one of the objectives of Unesco is to promote peace among  nations, but we are also convinced that peace cannot be achieved as long as we are still wincing  under the fetters of colonialism and racial discrimination. Under such conditions we will never be  able fully to determine our system of education geared to the interest of the Namibian people. We  will never be able to rid our economy of exploitation of man by man and use our natural resources  for the advancement of the Namibian people's well-being. Science in education is non-existent  among the non-white population in Namibia since the philosophy of apartheid is to perpetually keep  the non-whites subservient to the whites. Furthermore, our culture is contaminated and thoroughly  polluted by the philosophy of apartheid, which vividly manifests itself in the Bantustanization of the  population and consequently the fragmentation of the cultural entity and imbalance in the cultural  equilibrium. This being the case, Mr. President, it follows that the restoration of desirable norms  in our society in all spheres of life depends on the dismantling and complete destruction of the ma-  chinery of oppression and its replacement by the people's democratic government. Only when the  machinery of oppression, the apartheid regime in Namibia, is eliminated will be able to talk of  human rights, education, culture etc. The racist regime of South Africa is by its very nature in-  capable of producing anything beneficial to the interests of the non-white majority. Hence, its re-  moval is of paramount necessity and urgency. However, Mr. President, since the apartheid sys-  tem penetrates the economic, political, educational and cultural spheres, its removal can under  no circumstances be a non-political one. Therefore, either Unesco pledges itself to support the  struggle for the liberation of Namibia and the rest of still colonized territories in order to promote  peace or she refrains and by so doing abdicates the responsibility for promoting peace since pres-  ently there is no peace in those regions. The adoption of the first of these alternatives would mean  that Unesco cannot remain entirely non-political. Besides, how can Unesco be non-political or apol-  itical when issues involved are political? When there is cultural exchange, for example, between  South Africa, Zimbabwe or Namibia and other countries the participants get their visas from the  political representative of the country concerned. When Namibians in the service of South Africa  travel abroad, they carry passports of the illegal regime, and when the capitalist investors invest  in Namibia they have to sign contracts with the South African regime. Mr. President these are  political issues and to sweep them under the rug is tantamount to Unesco renouncing its capability  of promoting peace, but peace can only be promoted in these regions by removing the ugly face of  colonialism and racial discrimination.
20.4 However, Mr. President, while we believe that the main burden of liberating countries still  under the colonial yoke should be shouldered by the people concerned, we are also convinced that  Unesco has a role to play. Therefore, SWAPO thinks that the attention of Unesco should be concen-  trated in the following fields, especially in Namibia.
20.5 In the field of education, SWAPO runs the Namibia Education and Health Centre with two  branches, one in the Republic of Zambia and the other in the People's Republic of Angola. This  centre caters for pre-school education, primary education, secondary education and adult education,  as well as health. We have thousands of people, both young and the old, in this centre. They need  non-expendable materials such as blackboards, chairs, tables, mimeographic machines, typewriters,  books, desks, etc. They also need expendable items such as school uniforms, shoes, blankets and  winter clothes. In addition, we urgently need twenty scholarships for young ladies for pre-school  education teaching. Mr. President, we believe that education is essential in order to eradicate the  legacy of colonialism and ensure the prevention of neo-colonialism in a free Namibia and we hope  that Unesco will be in a position to continue to play an active role in this respect.
20.6 In the field of information, Unesco should gather sufficient information concerning education  and culture in Namibia; authentic statistics in this field have been concealed from international  public opinion by South Africa and are very hard to come by. Therefore Unesco should use all  available ways and means to ensure the availability of such information in order to counter South  African propaganda internationally. A comprehensive global approach to the liberation movements  should be adopted so as to enable Unesco to have comprehensive assistance programmes. Unesco  should also collect information in the economic arena, information which has been integrated with  information concerning South Africa but which can still be secured with great efforts.
20.7 In the field of culture, the Bantustanization of Namibia leads directly to the disintegration of  the homogeneity of the African culture and the diminishing of cultural values; it is essential there-  fore that Unesco should make all necessary efforts to contribute to the literature which will expose  the diabolical schemes of apartheid.
20.8 Mr. President, I would like to assure you that the Namibian people under SWAPO will carry  the liberation struggle to its logical conclusion in all fields. We desire peace, but the South African  regime in Namibia, with the protective veto and crucial support from the imperialist countries, re-  jects peace. The imperialist powers, therefore, should bear in mind that they are fully responsible  for all the catastrophic consequences.
20.9 SWAPO maintains that any discussion with the illegal regime in South Africa can only take  place under the auspices of the United Nations. South Africa must agree to withdraw her army and  police forces from Namibia and she should respect the territorial integrity of Namibia, recognize  SWAPO as the authentic representative of the Namibian people, allow political exiles to return home  without fear of arrest or intimidation, release all political prisoners, conduct elections under the  supervision of the United Nations and include all her puppets participating in the present so-called
20 constitutional conference in Windhoek in her own delegation in any talks. In the absence of these  conditions we see no reasonable basis for discussion, Mr. President.
20.10 Mr: President, we express our deep-felt gratitude to the ruling party KANU, the Govern-  ment, the people of Kenya and to the President, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta for making this nineteenth  session of Unesco's General Conference a reality. They are a people who have sacrificedin blood  and material goods to achieve their independence and we are convinced that they cannot allow the  degradation of the honour of Africa by colonialism, racism and their allies to continue. Last, but  not least, Mr. President, we salute the admission of the new Member States to Unesco. Their con-  tribution will be invaluable to us. We seriously warn the minority regimes aided by their imperial-  ist allies to desist from their armed aggression against the frontline States, in particular the People's  Republic of Angola, the People's Republic of Mozambique and the Republic of Zambia. They should  face the reality that the struggle is being waged right inside the colonial countries. We hail the pro-  gressive forces and people of goodwill for the assistance they have rendered us and express our soli-  darity with the progressive fighting forces in Africa, Palestine, the Middle East, Latin America and  Asia. Thank you.
21. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of the South West African People's Organization. I now give  the floor to H. E. Ambassador Mr. Rafil Botelho, head of the delegation of Bolivia.
786   on Arr ;
(22.1) Mr. BOTELHO (Bolivia) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, Your Excellencies, delegates, ladies and gentlemen: I have  the signal honour of addressing you on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Bolivia, in order to offer  you its cordial greetings and most sincere wishes for the success of the nineteenth session of the General  Conference of Unesco, which is taking place through the fraternal hospitality of the distinguished Govern-
20 ment and the entire people of Kenya. At the same time, I warmly congratulate the distinguished represen-  tative of this young and powerful African republic on his well deserved election to the office of President of  the Conference. I should also like to offer our congratulations to the Director-General for his painstaking  efforts, which have led to an efficient streamlining of this United Nations agency, making it more dynamic  and better able to carry out the tasks which the Member States have entrusted to Unesco. Finally, on behalf  of Bolivia, I warmly welcome the new countries which have joined us to work together for the great cause of  international peace and development, through co-operation, in all the fields of Unesco's competence.
(22.2) Mr. President, this General Conference is of special importance because of the serious difficulties  which our Organization is experiencing. These difficulties will certainly be overcome if we all demonstrate  a high spirit of tolerance, co-operation and understanding in surmounting them by means of an intelligent  and constructive dialogue instead of fanatical confrontation, which might lead us into a dead end, changing  this forum, in which so many peoples of the earth have placed their trust, into a battleground, alien to the  Organization's traditions and the purposes set forth in its Constitution.
(22.3) Itis a fact that we are living in a state of crisis, in the midst of a fragile international détente  achieved by the great powers, and that there is still an enormous propaganda machine which keeps some  traces of the obsolete "cold war'' alive; it is for this very reason that Unesco is called upon to cushion the  effects of the socio-economic and cultural contradictions created by a state of inequality in which the ma-  jority of poor and hence underdeveloped peoples cohabit with the rich and developed peoples. By so doing,  Unesco will fulfil its great mission of removing from the minds of men the harmful images of war, thereby  helping to construct peacefully, without undue hurry or delay, a world fit for men to live in, where all en-  joy the advantages of life and security, without the constant menace of our civilization collapsing.
(22.4) I wish to make a brief survey of the efforts carried out in recent years in Bolivia by the nationalist  Government of General Hugo Bânzar Suârez in the fields of education, science and culture, with a view to  enhancing the quality of life of our major national groups. In spite of the evidence for this enormous effort,  I feel obliged to point out that, unfortunately, certain mass media distort the reality of Bolivia, misrepres-  enting the nationalist regime, because it does not tally with the extremist doctrines of either right or left.  As in the case of other countries, these media gratuitously arrogate to themselves the right to judge us and  to paint a malicious picture of a situation which they know only through biased sources. Happily, this wave  of abuse is stilled by the plain and simple truth of the practical rather than theoretical achievements which  can be witnessed in Bolivia at its current stage of national construction, so much so that we can claim with  pride that we are one of the few countries to enjoy stability and to be in a position to look to the future with  confidence, thanks to economic and social advances taking place in a climate of domestic peace.
(22.5) On a basis of ideological pluralism, Bolivia maintains relations with the majority of countries of the  world, on the sole condition that the inalienable principles of non-intervention, self-determination and re-  spect for sovereignty, territorial integrity and cultural identity are observed.
(22.6) In 1809, the area that is today Bolivia was the cradle of the movement for independence and anti-  colonialism in Latin America; for 16 years, until the arrival of the armies of liberation commanded by  Simôn Bolfvar, the struggle went on to achieve our national independence. Thus, by tradition and conviec-  tion, we are an essentially anti-colonialist country.
(22.7) As a result of our demographic make-up, we know no racialism. Indians, whites and mestizos are  all integrated in the national State; consequently, we oppose apartheid and all forms of racial discrimination  or segregation.
(22.8) We share the characteristic features of all developing countries and, like other peoples struggling  to overcome this temporary state, our aim is gradually to close the gap separating us from the advanced  countries. This is why we give priority to the establishment of a new international economic order that  would help us to enjoy and develop our natural resources to the full. For this purpose, we consider that  the transfer of scientific and technological knowledge is of the highest importance, for we must build an  abode for man from which hunger, poverty, ignorance and exploitation are forever banished.
(22.9) With regard to mass communication, a subject of international debate, Bolivia believes that at the  domestic level such important resources cannot be excluded from development planning, although freedom  of expression must naturally be respected. At the international level, however, we believe that mass com-  munication must not be monopolized by any single body, but should tend towards a state of equilibrium as  regards both access and participation.
(22.10) In pursuance of an overall plan, the objectives of which can be summed up in four points, namely:  "National unity; physical, economic, cultural and spiritual integration; economic and social development,  both rapid and sustained, harmonious and balanced; and access to the sea'', the Government of Bolivia has  made considerable progress in a few brief years; for instance, during the last five years more school  buildings have been put up than throughout the nation's history, although this is still insufficient and were-  quire assistance for school equipment and teaching materials.
(22.11) Forty per cent of our national budget is devoted to the education sector. We consider this percent-  age both substantial and exceptional. Nevertheless, we lack highly qualified personnel among our urban and  rural teaching staff. For this purpose, Unesco's co-operation is essential. We have received technical mis-  sions, but require financial assistance, in addition to what we offer as a counterpart, for the proposed pro-  grammes. In short, we seek practical co-operation rather than theoretical recommendations. In this con-  nection, we are confident that Unesco will include Bolivia in its action plans under the Draft Programme for 1977-
1978 and the Draft Medium- Term Plan for 1977-1982, pending the various projects that will be submitted in  due course. Bolivia, for its part, also wishes to offer its experience in community education and integrated  rural development; we feel that the originality of our programme makes us pioneers in this field in Latin  America.
(22.12) As a result of our recent efforts, the problem of illiteracy is gradually being reduced in Bolivia.  The National Institute of Statistics reports that this year 50 per cent of the Bolivian population is under
788   twenty years of age, and below this age-level the illiteracy rate is less than 14 per cent, as compared with  a national illiteracy rate for all age groups that is still, unfortunately, 38 per cent.
(22.13) As far as culture is concerned, it can be stated that considerable progress has been made by the  Bolivian Institute of Culture towards providing the people with access to all kinds of artistic manifestations,  by means of the so-called "cultural campaigns'', which consist of mobile groups that travel throughout the  national territory bringing orchestral concerts, plays, exhibitions, educational films and so on to the popu-  lation. ‘These require support in the form of suitable means of transport, which will be requested from the  appropriate sources.
(22.14) In concluding this brief survey of our efforts, Mr. President, I beg to inform the General Confer-  ence that Bolivia is in the process of completing an important round of negotiations designed to secure a  national and sovereign passage to the Pacific Ocean. The Government of Chile has recognized this vital  national necessity and has agreed, through an exchange of territory, to cede a stretch of coastline located  on the frontier with Peru, where we are to construct a harbour. The Republic of Peru, one of the inter-  ested parties in this problem, is at present being asked to give its opinion. Our nation, which has been  landlocked in the centre of South America since 1879, as a result of the War of the Pacific, hopes that these  peaceful negotiations, based on friendly dialogue, will be crowned with success, allowing us free access to  the sea and thus, by remedying so long-lasting and unjust a situation, an opportunity to further strengthen  our cultural and material bonds with all countries of the world. Thank you very much.  (Mr. Toweett resumed the chair.)
23. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Bolivia. I now call on H.E. Dr. Chaker Fahham, Minister  of Education and head of the delegation of the Syrian Arab Republic.  (ged) yond) perd!) pli] SLs pS all aad] — VCD)  § usb) Last 3 0LuJl halle lise JE 5 A Bll de Sy dl pled) bell ety aed) ]  cas 3 M ES LL que 47 £1 I La) [PRL UPON | J Levnty ICY. depSa) c 11) (VF: CORICAL Sc IRR 01 OO PS EVO él  Slo s¥lycenally phil eddy Gul Bsa) pp JL SOLE NI ells J Poly + AL ail pS 6 SEU Gun  cle wy mal oll dell IG a1 oF Ld cman Binge BBL pais 1 35, Land) ugipll BT Le «5550  yells DES NV Jb 3 LS cond Lodi I Bel Bilas V1 doe dS eed oats 0 55a 56 YT 0 de Lal  - prbadl cal 15d jo ly dite, ius 2)  LITRES C Wt [PU TIORCRC IAC audit ol 6 55 Tease ÿ Us € its E91  Om ar la LI 15055 à ps canal VS Says 1 ue pladl pusilla ll oY] dl ALAIN desl  any Brssdga ls SSI ue pity Lo dl ie le By Ass dppeally A JAI BBY ¢ 6 ama) LI  iB Lui Bafa Sdn Lg oals élmdléhpat Joli ls 5 delpadlis ape as tnee à IV D  Fe 55 Blade Let By) 13 0 VE 08 Bl Ballina ogi lation Le Blots Hore Blut vie  . cles oe 53.05 5 los 5 das à Jall | vos ad os  pH € Jésus € BL Games F4 008) Lilly à plie + hall a)l oF oan LS — vie  FN 5 ll Vaste Bol ay wll cal ls 8 Sy ts Ai Il 3p al fleas) die Babin) J) cas)  + IS Al as 0 (plat  lily + Sag pere) GDS GS SIL «pads EST dS Gags Il mailed Lilia) ES yg 0  pri I CURE JOUE Gallas de FUE BER BP MR TS Sa)  à SNS WN toll ells él Spl compra iL SLY ally Lesallas ¢ lmsytsl Gl celal  : hall Ed Bola! db hens le dag oly 5 pu I ble Ladson I! Lad) ily  Satpal sas ma Fo NAS NU rip Sin IY Ebi, 1 Silas lea pet Brn Wi a pond li le EN  JA 5 cuales 5 Swed! esl 1315 1 Gel > JV diss so LaJl ose fowl) Is a  eles I Jubal © dy al or edo ly Gg ally 50 ll ob Dall pi) AMI Sind! vol Basle! Les  To SS «lial Sill Cy lally lal! last! Bul dere pasha ds Byki SS O3 € 2,  IT Lily + Lata Was Bolo Lg las Seuspadl pe Uglas id + Bl Lualls Lui ls 6 pa Il me ie Lilly Banal)  Smad) Mel Lee 55,5 «pals Wl oad) loss dla J) Glen! IL aJl pnd oo renal st pt  ciples  peal i Bia dl Lama ale (Il Loup Gun ashe Lida (of Bes lll pod 0 Soy Laos gl iy  pl ella) #li5e | lal lh or ally gold) as SALE € openly Gall as lus YI Ls) Lan  e A … . hr 3 . - -
933 pe CBR ob PI PS A PS | RPO | I ubo) vas BUA BP A SE IL. DT Sr SERRE SL € às lus V1 ay) Las!
20     > ES add! oy =a! ore 8! 599 ¢ oy ujly cr) dolla Jw ES La, Lisl ¢ 8,150 dues] 01559  sas lus es 48 la) eb TW HE à 5 Vleuil  €  repas l p é)l PET FUP DA pps Gil SLA Gas € POPS RV € BILAN el 6h — NEA  patte IN Bera ne Wiping et pies Tien poral ay ON ORT) BEL UAR SN  Stl € detlnl Logs gl Brmaptll Bly oad ulead] 51 dus Gp a Las VI Jp lls gs  sel TA Fale mee be le ee hi only SmI Sa Lai
5 alasy 73 9094-29 ¢ pladl ze)! dnd V ppap) Gl So 5ST  oe Jy A pas 55 SA RAA PH EL clall aise) plall pad! ull Lok Sal 5 — VU
(24.1) Mr. FAHHAN (Syrian Arab Republic) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr. President of the General Conference, Mr. Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr. Director-  General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I begin my speech by offering sincere thanks to  the Government of Kenya and its benevolent people for the excellent reception, great hospitality and remark-  able generosity which has been offered us. I also commend the successful efforts exerted in organizing,  arranging and preparing for the Conference, which ensured the delegations of comfortable accommodation  and enabled them to concentrate on serious, fruitful work. This short stay has given us the chance to ac-  quaint ourselves closely with the significant achievements realized by the Kenyan people in the era of in-  dependence and liberty, which promise a prosperous future for this great people.
(24.2) I should like, in the beginning of my speech, to congratulate Mr. Taaitta Toweett, the Kenyan  Minister of Education and President of the Conference, on the great confidence accorded to him by the  General Conference in choosing him for this high position, in appreciation of his excellent qualities, wide  culture and rich experience. I am sure that his wisdom, objectivity and skill will be among the most promi-  nent factors which will contribute to the success of work of the present session and the achievement of the  noble objectives of the Organization.
(24.3) I should like also to pay tribute to Mrs. Magda JéborG, the ex-President of the Conference, who  displayed during her term of office great efficiency and tact, and whose outstanding personality was an un-  forgettable factor which contributed to the success achieved.
(24.4) It gives me much pleasure to welcome the States of Surinam, Papua New Guinea, Mozambique,  Grenada and Seychelles, which have joined the Organization since the eighteenth session; and to welcome  also the new State of Angola, whose membership the General Conference has approved during the current  session.
(24.5) We celebrated yesterday, Thursday, 4 November, the thirtieth anniversary of the establishment of  Unesco. I should like, on this occasion, to point out, with admiration and appreciation, the achievements  accomplished by the Organization, without trying to overlook the difficulties which it has encountered, and  which it has managed to overcome with patience and perseverance. Unesco has been inspired in its activi-  ties by the moral principles and the ideals laid down in its Constitution, which it has been eager to trans-  form into action and tangible facts.
(24.6) The Syrian Arab Republic expresses her attachment to the principles and lofty human values of Unesco  and supports the efforts which it is making in order to inculcate these principles and to put them into effect.  Unesco has striven during the past years to find the appropriate form for the organization of cultural, edu-  cational and information relations among States, and to promote the exchange of experience and opinions  among them, and we should like to state that we endorse every proper step taken in order to develop scien-  tific co-operation, to bridge the intellectual and cultural gaps, and to promote the feelings of sympathy and
792   solidarity among nations on the basis of equality. We have co-operated with Unesco in a sincere, effective  and fruitful way. We hope that Unesco will be the voice of the world's conscience, expressing its aspira-  tions for a life of justice and freedom, with love and peace as its watchwords.
(24.7) We are strongly attached to these authentic values, which are deeply rooted in our conscience and  in the heritage of our Arab nation, which has enriched the world with a civilization characterized by its  humanism, imbued with the spirit of tolerance and love; we will always be true and loyal to these human  values, which will always nourish us and guide our steps. For our Arab homeland we seek security, stab-  ility and the chance to concentrate our efforts and capacities on developing our resources and investing  them for the good and welfare of the people, and on establishing peaceful co-operation in all the cultural,  political and economic spheres, for the good of humanity.
(24.8) But no doubt you are all aware of the dimensions of the calamity which our people has undergone  through the Zionist colonial invasion which drove away the secure population and uprooted them from their  motherland, and proceeded to exercise its policy of occupation and expansion, supported and endorsed by  the great colonial powers. The aggressive expansionist policy adopted by Israel, its flagrant infringement  of the principles of justice and legal rights and its cruel, despotic practices have thwarted all good efforts  tending to the establishment of peace based on justice in the region. In so doing, Israel has not only im-  peded the progress and prosperity of the region, but has also transformed it into a focus of tension and  conflict which threatens the security and welfare of the world.
(24.9) There are ample examples for the aggressive policy adopted by Israel, its challenge to the principles  of Unesco, its rejection of the principles of international law, and its scorning of the resolutions of Unesco  and the United Nations. From the point of view of Unesco's objectives, I will confine myself to recalling the  resolutions concerning culture and national education, those calling upon Israel to desist from impairing the  Arab cultural heritage in Jerusalem, and those concerning the territories Israel has occupied since 1976,  such as the resolution adopted by the General Conference of Unesco at its eighteenth session, condemning  Israel for its attitude contradictory to the aims of Unesco as stated in its Constitution, and also the resol-  ution adopted by the General Conference of Unesco at its eighteenth session, condemning Israel for its atti-  tude cont
(24.9) There are ample examples for the aggressive policy adopted by Israel, its challenge to the principles  of Unesco, its rejection of the principles of international law, and its scorning of the resolutions of Unesco  and the United Nations. From the point of Unesco's objectives, I will confine myself to recalling the resol-
(24.9) There are ample examples for the aggressive policy adopted by Israel, its challenge to the principles  of Unesco, its rejection of the principles of international law, and its scorning of the resolutions of Unesco  and the United Nations. From the point of view of Unesco's objectives, I will confine myself to recalling the  resolutions concerning culture and national education, those calling upon Israel to desist from impairing the  Arab cultural heritage in Jerusalem, and those concerning the territories Israel has occupied since 1976,  such as the resolution adopted by the General Conference of Unesco at its eighteenth session, condemning  Israel for its attitude contradictory to the aims of Unesco as stated in its Constitution, and also the resol-  ution adopted by the General Conference at the same session condemning Israel for denying the population  of the occupied territories their right to education and national culture. The incidents which occurred  lately in the city of Hebron - Israel's profanation of the sacred religious shrines - furnish fresh evidence  of Israel's disregard for all human and cultural values. All these actions reveal Israel's premeditated  intention to destroy all Arab monuments and efface all traces of the Arab civilization which flourished in  Arab Palestine. In so doing, Israel openly perpetrates a terrible crime against humanity and civilization,  in order to falsify history and distort facts. The catastrophic tragedy of Palestine and the suffering of her  Arab people, expelled from their territory and homeland, are an outrage to the world conscience. If there  is something terribly wrong with the world mass media, a question to which many of my colleagues, the  heads of delegations who preceded me on this platform, have alluded, demonstrating the predominance of  Zionist capital in many of the information institutions which have persisted in falsifying the facts and mis-  leading public opinion, we are fully confident that the mass media biased in favour of Israel, however  loud a noise they may make, will never be able to drown the voice of truth and justice or conceal the truth.
(24.10) The speech delivered by the representative of Israel from this rostrum two days ago, Mr. President,  is one of those speeches characterized by the intention to mislead. In that speech, he distorted the facts  well known to the whole world, namely that Israel occupies territories of other countries by force, governs  people by means of repressive measures, and refuses to comply with the resolutions of the United Nations  and Unesco and the principles of international law, paying no heed to them. One is greatly astonished when  one hears the representative of this aggressive entity which drove out the country's native sons and seized  their homes and villages in order to replace them with foreign immigrants imported from every part of the  world, denying all human values, all human rights and fundamental freedoms, one is astonished when one  hears such a person trying, in defiance of all logic and truth, to liken this aggressive entity to the African  national liberation movements, which are struggling to restore their rights and to lead a free, dignified life  in their own homelands. Never before have even the worst of the imperialist mouthpieces dared to contra-  dict the truth and falsify reality in such a way. The Arab Palestinian people, which has been waging a heroic  and bitter struggle since 1948 in order to return to its homeland and live on the territory on which their  fathers and forefathers lived before them and to establish a State in which no differences and no diserimina-  tion exist between its citizens, is the ideal example of the national liberation movement which struggles  against aggression and oppression, it is the real liberation movement which is in conformity with the  African liberation movements struggling for independence, freedom and dignity.
(24.11) The Syrian Arab Republic asserts that she is eager to maintain peace and reinforce its basis. We  want peace; but the peace we want is peace based on justice, a peace which precludes driving people out  and occupying their territory, a peace whereby the oppressed peoples regain their usurped national rights.  We call upon Member States and all justice-loving and peace-loving bodies to exert greater efforts to oblige  Israel to comply with Unesco's resolutions and to carry out these resolutions precisely and honestly. Is it  acceptable that a Member State of Unesco which refuses to comply with the resolutions which the Organiza-  tion has adopted and asked her to observe can continue, in spite of that, to exercise her activities inside the  Organization? According to international custom, Israel must be deprived of the right to exercise any sort  of activity within the Organization until it abides by its resolutions.
20 (24.12) Mr. President, we warmly welcomed the resolution concerning the convening of the nineteenthses-  sion of the General Conference in Nairobi. This resolution reflects correctly the appreciation and impor-  tance accorded by all States to Africa. It is the first time in twenty years that the General Conference ses-  sion has been held away from Headquarters and the first time in Africa. This choice heralds in a new phase  in the history of militant Africa. In this new phase, we hope that the continent, which has suffered greatly  from the evils, cruelty and suppression of the colonialists, will be able to eliminate all traces of hateful  colonialism and the detestable racialism from her territories, so that all the peoples of the continent may  enjoy security and peace and concentrate their efforts on development, welfare and co-operation based on  friendship and mutual understanding.
(24.13) The General Assembly of the United Nations and Unesco have condemned racialism and racial dis-  crimination. It is our duty to combat vehemently and use all means to eradicate the racialist tendency in  all its forms and get rid of all theories containing the seeds of hatred and the violation of fundamental human  rights. We fully endorse all efforts to eliminate racial discrimination in South Africa and Rhodesia, and we  support the African liberation movements which are struggling to get rid of colonialism.
(24.14) Arab-African solidarity has achieved many victories for the causes of freedom, human rights and  progress. We should promote this solidarity and reinforce its bases, until final victory is achieved for all  peoples and the banners of freedom fly high in the sky of mighty Africa.
(24.15) Mr. President, the comprehensive and profound outlook implied in documents 19 C/4 and 19 C/5  towards world problems, the exposition of the ideas, projects and plans of work contained therein, are a  true expression of the aspirations of this active Organization and its awareness to the needs of the peoples,  who look forward to a true international co-operation, based on complete equality, which will reduce misery,  combat ignorance, disseminate science and knowledge and find solutions for contemporary problems.
(24.16) The gap between advanced countries and developing countries, between the rich and the poor, is  growing deeper and wider because of accelerated economic growth, the fruits of which some societies are  enjoying at the expense of other societies suffering under the yoke of poverty and penury. Thisis combined  with no less dangerous differences in the fields of culture, science and technology. The great diversitybe-  tween nations and the serious imbalance existing in the present economic order impose upon us all, at this  critical juncture in the history of mankind when so many important international events are taking place,  the duty of revising the existing relations between nations and satisfying the requirements of the peoples by  bringing about a real change. Humanity most urgently needs real, serious co-operation between the ad-  vanced peoples and developing peoples, capable of narrowing the gap between them, and of devising effective  solutions to the problems from which developing countries are suffering. Can the call by the United Nations  for the establishment of a new international economic order to rectify the existing manifestations of inequity  and injustice be considered as an indication of this human solidarity and a signal for the dawn of a new era  leading towards the establishment of a more just and equitable international order? Is it possible to put an  end to the dangerous arms race and thereby save its exorbitant expenses, in order to allocate these funds  and expenses to the dissemination of science and technology, for the development of man and society, and  for the production of useful things capable of reducing the suffering and misery of mankind, and of increas-  ing their happiness and welfare? Will the rich States, whose welfare and riches were achieved at the ex-  pense of the poverty and backwardness of others, accept the beginning of a new era in human relations tend-  ing to narrow the gaps between nations? We are well aware that it is not easy to achieve this goal, and that  there are many obstacles in its way, but the decisive factor, in the last analysis, is the will of the peoples  and their firm determination to carry out the necessary changes.
(24.17) I should like here to commend the valuable efforts exerted by Unesco concerning the proposed new  international economic order, embodied in the valuable study entitled "Moving Towards Change'' and in the  report attached thereto, prepared by a group of prominent thinkers, about the world problems which Unesco  can help to solve, within the educational and scientific spheres of its competence. We look forward to see-  ing Unesco, supported by all freedom-loving, progress-loving and peace-loving countries, assume her posi-  tive, constructive role in the promotion of human rights, the combat against racialism and imperialism, and  in finding solutions to the problems of the last quarter of the twentieth century, which the Director-General  has set out with complete frankness, clarity and precision of his excellent Introduction tothe 19 C/4 document.
(24.18) We agree with the broad lines of the 19 C/4 and 19 C/5 documents and with the way in which the co-  ordination between them has been achieved, a task which, as the Director-General has stated, was sometimes  difficult, but always fruitful. We commend the improvement achieved in the 19 €/5 document, and the con-  centration of the programme, and we will submit our comments and remarks on the two documents to the  competent commissions.
(24.19) Mr. President, holding in high esteem the values of education, science, culture and information,  and their strong formative influence on man and the structure of societies, the Syrian Arab Republic has  accorded them the top priority of its care and attention. I cannot dwell at length, in this limited period of  time, on our educational, cultural and scientific experience, so I will confine myself here to a reference to  the convening of two conferences on education for which we made careful preparations. A large number of  Syrian scientists and educators contributed to the studies, research and discussions which took place. Sci-  entists and educators of high calibre from the Arab countries also participated in the conferences, at which  a number of international organizations, with Unesco foremost among them, were also represented. A re-  vision of the structures, content, methods and techniques of education was made and recommendations and  resolutions for its renewal and improvement were adopted. We have made good progress in implementing  some of these, and we are serious in our efforts to continue and complete their implementation.
(24.20) Education for development was the slogan under which the education conference was held, by which  we meant education in its widest and most comprehensive sense. Our first and principal objective, to which  all the recommendations were directed, was the human being, the most important factor in building and de-  veloping society. We have striven to bring up individuals who are attached to their nation and homeland,  who are militant against imperialism, racialism and aggression, devoted to freedom, progress and peace,  ready and able to satisfy the requirements and needs of development in society, who believe in the useful-  ness of co-operation among peoples and nations for the progress, happiness and welfare of humanity- While  we have made use of the most recent theories and experiments in the world, we have taken the utmost care  to avoid making the mistake of rushing to imitate others, and accepting ready-made foreign models; we have
794   rather tried to base ourselves on our own experience and the requirements of our environment and circum-  stances.
(24.21) We believe in the authenticity and identity of the character of the nation, and we hold fast to that  belief, because it is for us the only path leading to creation and invention, to renewal and modernization.  Such an outlook on the one hand leads to the survival of the past in our life and, on the other, enables us  to look at it in a modern way while looking forward to the future. In that way we can avoid the discontinuity  which leads to the effacement and loss of character. Imperialism has long harboured plans to efface our  cultural identity, to destroy our initiative and creativity, and to turn us into a mere carbon copy of itself,  keeping us bound in the shackles of its cultural servitude. But such a distortion must not continue, because  our cultural identity and our authentic heritage are the real sources for the solution of the problems of our  society. Moreover no society will ever be fertile and capable of creation and invention without having re-  course to these two sources. A nation which holds on to its cultural identity is a nation which may be sure  of having complete command of its destiny and future. :
(24.22) I should like, at the end of my speech, to express my deep thanks to Mr. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow,  the Director-General of Unesco, who has offered the Organization all his thoughts, efforts and time, and  who has worked for its sake as only those who have deep faith in the future of mankind can work. Among  the fruits of his great efforts are the two documents, 19C/4 and 19 C/5, and also the excellent Introduction  to the 19 C/4 document, in which he has analysed the world problems in a deep and precise way. We can  also find in the report which we heard in the meetings held on 27 and 28 October a clear expression of the  concerns, efforts and work of the Director-General.
(24.23) We thank the Director-General once more for his firm and steadfast stand against the pressure  which some States have exerted by abstaining from fulfilling their financial obligations, in order tocoerce  the Organization to acquiesce in their wishes. Had the Organization yielded to that pressure, it would have  been a sign of its being in decline instead of being a beacon to guide all struggling peoples. The Director-  General held fast to justice and truth and refused to surrender to these pressures. To quote what the  Director-General said in this connection, what a disastrous path we would be on if every Member State was  entitled to disavow the obligations which it agreed to fulfil, of its own free will, when it accepted the Con-  stitution of the Organization. While supporting the Director-General for his stand of principle, and endors-  ing his sincere and truthful efforts to promote the Organization, we cannot help denouncing the attitude of  those States which have tried to exert such pressures on the Organization in order to divert it from the true  path of its humane principles. We express our affection and "appreciation for you, Mr. Director-General,  as a shining example of the sons of developing countries and an outstanding militant from Africa, bearing  in his heart the fire of revolt against oppression, feeling in the depths of his soul all that the continent has  suffered from the evils of the colonialists and the prejudice of the racists, and equipped with all that his  position requires of courtesy, wide culture, patience and clemency. You have added a new and excellent  page to the record of your struggle, and you will be the pilot who guides the Organization, on which millions  of people hang great hopes, to the shore of peace and security.
(24.24) In conclusion, I address my greetings to the delegations assembled here, representing the peoples  of the world who have faith in the principles of freedom and justice and in the struggle of man to rid himself  of ignorance, oppression and slavery. A new world in which justice and peace prevail wants to be born, and  we should do our best to help it to emerge.
25. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of the Syrian Arab Republic and I call on Lieutenant- Colonel  Efraim L. Gonzâlez, the Minister of Culture, Tourism and Information of Honduras and head of  his country's delegation.
(26.1) Mr. GONZALEZ (Honduras) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President of the Conference, Mr. Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr. Director-General, ladies  and gentlemen, it is a real honour both for myself and for the other members of my delegation to take part  in this nineteenth session of the General Conference of Unesco, particularly since we bring warm and fra-  ternal greetings from the people and Government of Honduras to the people and Government of Kenya, a  country guided with such great skill by that outstanding leader, H.E. the President of the Republic, Mzee  Jomo Kenyatta. ‘
(26.2) Before getting down to the substance of my statement, allow me to offer my very special contratula-  tions to the distinguished Minister of Education, H.E. Mr. Taaitta Toweett, whose gift of leadership entirely  justifies his election to the Presidency of this world gathering.
(26.3) We should also like to extend our congratulations to the distinguished Chairman of the Executive  Board, Mr. Hector J. Wynter, for the dynamism he has conferred on the activities of the Board during the  present biennium.
(26.4) Finally, we wish to congratulate the Director-General of Unesco, Mr. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, for  the efficient way in which he has organized the present Conference and, above all, for the tremendous effort  he has made in preparing the working documents we shall be considering, such as the Draft Programme and  Budget for 1977-1978 and the Medium- Term Plan for 1977-1982. It should be emphasized that the dynamism  of the Executive Board and the exceptional capacity for work of the Directorate have been determining factors  in the development and implementation of the Organization's projects in the various member countries.
(26.5) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen: In my capacity as Minister of Culture, Tourism and Informa-  tion of the Republic of Honduras, I take great personal satisfaction in the emphasis placed in the planning of  Unesco's work during the second half of the decade on programmes for the strengthening of peace, respect  for human rights, educational and cultural development and the rational use of the mass media.
(26.6) It is obvious that communication and development are to a great extent interdependent, which makes  the action policy adopted by Unesco much more relevant. In their national plans, the majority of countries  lay stress on material development, in an attempt to secure the physical well-being of their inhabitants. The  aim of the Government of Honduras is to strike a balance between material and cultural development, through  the rational utilization of the mass media in relation to its specific plans for overall development.
(26.7) In this respect, we fully agree with Unesco which, in the working document submitted for discussion  at the Intergovernmental Conference on Communication Policies in Latin America and the Caribbean, held  in San José, Costa Rica, from 12 to 21 July 1976, stated that "It would appear that a well-planned overall  development policy must include both a coherent cultural policy and a communication policy, and that they  must be carefully harmonized".
(26.8) This implies the adoption of national strategies to promote the wider teaching of scientific knowledge  and technical progress, while at the same time helping to instil the values that best reflect the country's cul-  tural and social standards. In other words, the education system and cultural development should advance  in conformity with technological progress in the field of mass communication.
(26.9) For instance, it is no longer possible to go on providing old-fashioned, bookish learning in our class-  rooms, based on grotesque, improvised blackboard drawings, while television screens are showing docu-  mentaries on space flight to the moon and the planets; the overall training of individuals is at present subject  to the decisive influence of the mass media, which are tools for lifelong education that are often more impor-  tant than formal instruction, particularly in the underdeveloped countries.
(26.10) National progress thus demands the development and more equitable use of all national resources,  which means that the mass media must support educational and cultural policies.
(26.11) Frank and honest reflection might enable us to identify the main features of the responsibility and  role that the mass media should have at the present time in the international sphere. Believing it necessary  to make an effective response to this requirement, the Government of Honduras in 1975 took a political de-  cision at the highest level to set up the Department of Culture, Tourism and Information, with the basic aim  of achieving the integration of one of the most important sectors exercising a determining influence on national  development, particularly communication. The mass media are instruments of prime importance for the  strengthening of peace in a progressive context and for the respect of human rights, principles without which  there can be no development or equitable well-being among peoples.
(26.12) These media are equally vital for the promotion of education, science and culture. In the field of  education, the media have an outstandingly formative role to play through the continuous dissemination of
798   knowledge and values. In the field of science and technology, they are the most important instrument for 20  the dissemination of technological progress and for the stimulation of the internal development of scientific  knowledge essential to the endogenous growth of peoples. In the field of culture, the system of communica-  tion plays what is possibly its most important role, since a large proportion of the basic culture of peoples  is a direct product of the content of the mass media. When these media are used to transmit authentic  values, they are an effective instrument for affirming national identity. When they transmit artificial values,  they deform the true personality of peoples and hasten the disintegration of social groups. It is therefore  essential to integrate communication policies in national development plans, in order to bring about a change  in the use of the mass media, making them reflect the needs, values and priorities of the various social  sectors. :
(26.13) Honduras being a basically agricultural country, the Government of the Republic is involved in two  fundamental programmes: agrarian reform, a programme which aims to provide the entire population with  an income level sufficient to satisfy at least its basic needs; and integrated education in rural areas, which  aims to improve the quality of life of the rural population. A large number of settlements, comprising over
185, 000 families, are at present benefiting from these programmes.
(26.14) In application of the basic principles of the democratization of education, both quantitatively and  qualitatively and with respect to the expansion of technical education, a project has been drawn up with  Unesco's assistance; itis known in Central America as the Network of Educational Systems. At the primary  level, the programmes carried out cover educational research, the improvement of teaching standards,  school health and nutrition, and the construction, maintenance and equipment of buildings, together with a  permanent review of the content of the teaching/learning process, with a view to reaching the greatest pos-  sible number of school-age children.
(26.15) At the secondary level, we are carrying out a reform of basic education, which includes a common  course and a specialized course, leading to the various types of bachillerato needed for the training of the  human resources essential to the country's economic development. In the latter course, technical knowledge  and the skills required for its application are taught; a programme of expansion for this particular type of  education has been drawn up.
(26.16) A plan for the strengthening of teacher training is being developed, with a view to making teachers  the agents of change, not only in the classroom but also in their communities.
(26.17) Special mention should be made of the integrated programmes existing at these levels for the teach-  ing of basic subjects, particularly the sciences, which are being carried out in response to a Unesco resol-  ution.
(26.18) University education is responsible for providing Honduras with the resources of higher knowledge  in the various branches of science, technology and the humanities, so that they may make their contribution  to the tasks involved in the social and economic transformation of our country. In achieving this transform-  ation we have suffered from a lack of qualified young people and adults, of both sexes, in rural areas; for  this purpose, the Government is carrying out special programmes of out-of-school education, in the form  of rapid, specialized and recurrent courses, so as to provide lifelong education for these social sectors.
(26.19) One of the objectives of the nineteenth session of the General Conference is to find clear and co-  ordinated solutions to the social disharmonies which Member States are at present experiencing. The Draft  Medium- Term Plan specifically refers to drug addiction, old age and social maladjustment. There is also  a special chapter on ways of intensifying the struggle against illiteracy, a problem which we consider funda-  mental to developing countries such as our own. While it is true that, since its inception, Unesco has made  enormous efforts to eradicate illiteracy, there are still countries in which, as a result of the demographic  explosion and the lack of suitable means of action, the problem is growing worse every day.
(26.20) This, in my view, is the major social disharmony at present existing in our countries and one of  the factors which most strongly contributes to the widening of the cultural gap between the various social  groups, thus hampering the efforts of those governments which are at present concerned with achieving  integration at all levels. It would be useful if Unesco were to intensify its efforts to find new strategies  and systems with built-in mechanisms for narrowing the widening gap between the literate and the illiterate  at a faster rate than that of world population increase. Any solution that does not attain this objective will  not meet the present needs of the world.
(26.21) Cultural development should be a primary function of States, yet, while it is true that in most of  them this function is laid down in their Constitutions, the fact is that until fairly recently such development  took place solely and exclusively in specific social sectors; as a result, many States have reformed their  cultural development policies, with a view not merely to preserving their cultures, but to extending them  to the majority of their people, without losing their sense of reality. There can be no development in a  country without genuine human integration, whereby all inhabitants identify with their own values.
27. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate and head of the delegation of Honduras for his address. The  plenary meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 7.25 p.m.  La séance est levée à 19 h. 25  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 19.25
3acezaune sakpsBaerc4 B 19 u. 25 mus.  … Flu eye) ls OR (5 J 1385 2) le WP OI âc UWL BSE aude | uns,