Fifteenth plenary meeting
3 November 1976 at 9.15 a. m,  President: Mr. TOWEETT (Kenya)  then: Mr. THOMAS (France)  and Mr, MOVOAMBE (Zaire) ° x r pi: Liat Quinzième séance plénière
3 novembre 1976 à 9 h.15 ;  Président : M. TOWEETT (Kenya)  puis : M. THOMAS (France)  M. MOVOAMBE (Zaïre)
6 8 a ay dde >  bolo Bll) yy Ga) pt ands Ÿ  ( LES ) Cams ad: ug)  ( Less) Los add 5  (#1 ) else wud  i POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)/ DEBATE DE L POLICY DEBATE (cont nued)/DEBAT DE R  Ce GENERAL (continuaciôn)/ OBCYXIEHHE BOIPOCOB OBIEH MOJIHTHKH (nponouxenne)  (eb) lad) aw liad) dis Li
1, The PRESIDENT: : ; : ;  Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, I call on our first speaker this morning, H, E, Haile  Gabriel Dagne, Minister of Education and head of the delegation of Ethiopia.  DAGNE (Ethiopia): a
2 Ma ere on ce of the Ethiopian delegation, I wish to congratulate en non  tion as Chairman of the nineteenth session of the General Conference of ny EE EN  occasion when the General Conference is convened on the soil of Africa Es pan À  of our Organization, it is only fitting that a distinguished African should ea a peu  such an august body. The Ethiopian delegation wishes you every So EE ex- task which wehave so confidently entrusted to you. Mr. President, the = a R  presses its gratitude to the people and Government of its sister songes SE ee  they have made to ensure the success of this nineteenth session, The Le oy LE rt  serves to be host to this great international assembly. The Bh = Se a great leader and a  honoured that H, E. Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, President of the Republic o se Han Mres!s  statesman of international stature has welcomed us so warmly and opene ; > ry iE A  call for "... effective international co-operation, ... absolute Ry ni humanities for the banishment of human misery, and... the practical use of the se ee holes  peace and progress of human kind" are very inspiring ee néral amd to the Secretariatfor  hearted congratulations must also be addressed to the Director- ae Tas a  the preparations for this nineteenth session of the General a lien ihe Directions  mentation which has been assembled. I wish to take this opportunity to levelled against Unesco  General for the firmness with which he has repudiated the false Ca m (botmipoliticaty.anditi-  and for the wisdom with which he has led the Organization in that a en  nancially difficult. Permit me, Mr. President, to congratulate, on le of Viet Nam, Mozambique, tion, those new Members of Unesco, the delegations of the heroic pa now to greet also Angola.  Surinam, Papua New Guinea, Seychelles, and Grenada. We are very nappy  as a new Member.  it is my duty, not to detain you and  vast and complex programme  technological, cultural
2.2 At this stage in the proceedings of the General SRC of the the distinguished delegates with a long commentary on ‘ional lscientific, for the coming biennium, These questions, covering educational,
15 and communication matters, will be dealt with in the various Commissions. Here, we mus  cerned with the major policy issues, and with the new elements incorporated in Unesco!  It is my duty to refer to this more general picture, and to relate Unesco's proposed pro  the world view, as it is seen from my country. Indeed, the very serious problems which face us  today are essentially global in nature. They derive from a deteriorating situation, which has led  us to believe that nothing short of a dynamically new approach and the founding of a new internationa]  economic and social order will save us from chaos and increasing misery during the last quarter of  the twentieth century. Unesco's responsibility in this situation is clear. Thus, we welcome and  support the Director-General's opinion that our new order must be social as well as economic, We  agree with the Executive Board members who insist that we must deal with real and not just rhetori.  cal questions. We subscribe to the view that increased Unesco activity, centred around the freeand  balanced flow of information, the opening of the technological reservoirs for the use of all mankind  and the wider exchange of experience, are fundamental to progress and development. In order to '  advance these locally, Ethiopia has established a national commission for science and technology,  We know that Unesco's role in strengthening the ability of the mass of mankind to participate in  decisions influencing its own destiny is crucial, And we are aware that we need the kind of forum  provided by Unesco for the exploration of such major issues facing mankind,  t be con.
8S Strategy,  gramme to
2.3 Indeed, when we look at the main planks in Unesco's platform, we see that they are not very  different from those in our own programme for the national democratic revolution of Ethiopia, The  expert group which evaluated performance during the Second Development Decade recommended  that certain aspects of Unesco's work be strengthened during the remainder of the Decade, These  suggestions included: the linking of education in a variety of ways with productive work; steps to  ensure a higher priority for deprived rural areas, and for the urban poor; the rapid elimination of  elitist structures in educational promotion, and other measures which will speed the democratiza-  tion of education; an increase in the endogenous content of educational programmes; a greater de-  velopment of the non-formal and informal components of our educational systems; a larger utili-  zation of the educational resources of the community itself and the employment of technologies  appropriate to the community; the strengthening of the economy by the production of endogenous  goods; and lastly, measures to enhance cultural identity and the study and use of national languages,  To implement the foregoing, Ethiopia has established a Ministry of Culture, All these require-  ments have found a place in our own education programme, which is now forging ahead on new  principles and on new foundations, since the revolution of February 1974, These concepts and  strategies were talked about in Ethiopia long before the February 1974 revolution but they re-  mained empty ideas. It was not possible to forge the appropriate links between school and com-  munity and between the community and the productive process until fundamental changes had taken  place in our society. Until we had undertaken the task of creating a new social and economic order  in Ethiopia, it was impossible to embark on the implementation of these ideas.
2.4 We feel much the same, Mr, President, about the Unesco programme and the world society,  It has been amply demonstrated in many ways that a new foundation is required to create the will  and the resources needed, to narrow the gap between the industrial and the developing worlds, and  to promote the educational and cultural programmes to which a third of the world's population does  not have access. This problem can be tackled on two fronts: at the level of the Member State, and  within our various international organizations. At national level, we are striving to speed up the  process of betterment for the mass of our population. As Brigadier-General Teferi Bante, Chair-  man of the Provisional Military Administration Council, said recently at the Conference of Non-  Aligned States in Colombo: "What we do internally in our respective countries to bring about new  social structures ... will strengthen our collective demand at international level for a new social  and economic order', But it has also been amply demonstrated - and recently in this very Confer-  ence Hall during the UNCTAD IV debates - that this demand will not be easily met, Today, adress-  ing this Conference with its range of delegations from the advanced industrial countries, from the  socialist world and from the developing world, I must say frankly that we are apprehensive - ap-  prehensive lest the Director-General may be expressing too much optimism in his assumption ofa  "movement towards change'', founded on the active creation of a "new international order".
2.5 We thoroughly approve the conviction expressed by the Executive Board that the case of the  least-developed in the world community must be put more eloquently by Unesco. We know that, !  despite (or perhaps due to) the news media, the issues at stake between "developed! and "developing  between "affluent and "deprived", are very little understood among the people of the more ad-  vanced countries, Although there is some awakening in moments of real crisis, such as the recent  famine in the arid zone of Africa, the nature of the continuing struggle in the developing world for  a higher quality of life for its people is little appreciated. We should like to see pressure ineress®  for a more conciliatory and realistic approach in the dialogue between the "haves'' and the have  nots'', Basically, this can only be generated by an increase in the flow of information in the right  direction, As things are now, in Unesco, we seem more concerned about spreading alphabets mt  knowledge of western philosophers to the developing world, We are grateful for this, but we shoul  like also a better share in the standard of living and an improved access to the technology which  would permit us to build a better life for ourselves,
2.6 The Ethiopian delegation recognizes the sincere efforts made by the Director-General and i  staff to relate the Medium-Term Plan to wider issues embracing the search for a new order, a  at the same time to relate the Medium-Term Plan to the specific proposals for the coming ee. Ë  While we see in the proposals many things which must be welcomed, there are still features it
610      programme which tell us that all is not well. These symptoms can be illu  amples. Less than 20 per cent of the budget is available for regional an  though Unesco is to be commended on the organization of the meetings for Ministers of Ed ti in Lagos, and for the meeting in Paris devoted to the twenty-five least-developed rt nee are important requests arising from these meetings which are not yet reflected in Unesco's is . grammes, or where they have been included, as in the case of the African information Emon they do not move beyond the exploratory stage; there is little evidence of the greater use of va  perts from within the developing world for projects in the four regions; one-quarter of Unesco's Regular Programme Budget is still spent in Europe and North America, from which admitted]  most of the resources come, and which admittedly have one-quarter of the world's population ‘ but which have a much smaller proportion of the urgent problems,  strated by a few key ex-  d country activities; al-
2.7 We have already in Ethiopia, Mr, President, redefined education as a‘ "lifelong process! - the objectives of which go beyond "participation rates" - which operates through a growing "di-  versity of delivery systems", which begins to reach out to the most distant population groups  and which is drawing upon the "variety of means available through the community", For support  we need, not evaluation or investigation, and perhaps not a great deal of advice; but we do need 3  greater access to parallel experience, more joint projects, with our neighbours, assistance which  can be used more flexibly, control over our own projects, country-based support, and many other  things which have been listed in the report of the Lagos meeting for the convenience of the Secre-  tariat, Given full support from Unesco and other international and bilateral agencies, we can  assure the Conference that the programmes we implement will reflect (and are already reflecting)  the new considerations for the Development Decade which have been highlighted by the Director-  General. We shall give due importance to the environmental and the human habitat - after all, it  was largely western influences which set us on the wrong road and, more recently, the industrial  world which has been trying to export its pollution, We shall pay proper attention to so-called  problems of population. We shall work hard for more regional co-operation and a higher degree  of self-sufficiency and self-reliance. We shall give increasing attention to the previously deprived  rural populations and minority groups, and to enabling our women to play a full and effective part  in national development. And we shall work, together with our colleagues in other developing coun-  tries, for the establishment of a new international order which respects the dignity of all men.  For, as General Teferi also said in Colombo: ""The question is not whether we should seize this  opportunity and actively mould it, or remain passive spectators, only content with issuing pious  declarations, while others set the pace for change to our increasing detriment. Thereisnochoice...  we must be dynamic".
2,8 In Ethiopia, the Programme of the National Democratic Revolution stresses respect for  peace, justice and equality, but we are anxious that this should apply, not only to the people of  Ethiopia, where the programme is now being actively implemented, but more widely in the world,  Here the real challenge is for the promotion of change in the international economic and social  order, so that this may begin to accommodate the needs of the world's overwhelming majority of  peoples. They have been grossly neglected in the past and, for the most part, consist of the in-  habitants of the developing countries.
2,9 Mr. President, the Ethiopian delegation gives its wholehearted support to those elements in  the Unesco programme for 1977-1978, which contribute to a more peaceful world, in which atten-  tion can be focused on real development, It gives its wholehearted support to Unesco activities  which promote human rights, with particular reference to those programmes which support the  just cause of the Palestinian people, and the movements engaged in the final elimination of col-  onialism and racialism, The Director-General is to be heartily congratulated on the efforts which  he has made to ensure that the work of Unesco is more relevant to the real needs of the last quarter  of the twentieth century and, in particular, on the way in which he has endeavoured to accept the  challenge of a new international order. I feel sure that, on the basis of the work which has already  been done by the Secretariat, it will be possible to carry out the final prunings and the final subtle  changes in emphasis which will provide us with a common mechanism for a fruitful two-year pro-  gramme, Thank you, Mr. President,
3. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished leader of the delegation of Ethiopia, and I call upon the head of the  delegation of Czechoslovakia, Mr. V. Berger.
4.1 M. BERGER (Tchécoslovaquie). - :  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, permettez-moi tout d'abord de  vous féliciter, au nom de la délégation tchécoslovaque, pour votre élection aux fonctions de prési-  dent de la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco. Je suis convaincu que la  Conférence saura, sous votre conduite éclairée, obtenir des résultats positifs dont l'importance  Sera marquante pour l'activité de notre Organisation dans la période à MeTirs Je tiens à vous  assurer, Monsieur le Président, que la délégation tchécoslovaque est prête à apporter sa courir  bution à la réussite de nos travaux. Le fait que, pour la première fois dans l'histoire de l'Orga-  nisation, la Conférence générale se réunisse sur le continent africain constitue, à nos veus un  Symbole des aspirations des peuples africains qui, après avoir infligé une défaite quisax e 5  colonialisme, au racisme et a l'oppression nationale, souhaitent pouvoir vivre dans la liberté,  l'indépendance et le progrès économique et social.
15 4.2 La dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco se tient l'année même où  notre Organisation célèbre le trentième anniversaire de sa fondation. Cela nous fournit l'occasio  de pouvoir vérifier et confirmer la validité des principes sur lesquels l'Unesco a été bâtie ily ;  a trente ans. Si l'on veut procéder à une estimation des fruits de notre activité à la lumière des  principes inscrits dans l'Acte constitutif de l'Unesco, un critère essentiel s'impose : dans quelle  mesure l'Organisation a-t-elle su contribuer au maintien de la paix et de la sécurité internationale  en renforçant la coopération entre les peuples en matière d'éducation, de science et de culte? §  Je salue, Monsieur le Président, les efforts déployés depuis trente ans par notre Organisation in  faveur de la paix, de la compréhension mutuelle et de la coopération entre les peuples,
4.3 Le processus de détente se fait de plus en plus net. Nonobstant les obstacles accumulés, en  dépit des tentatives répétées pour provoquer un retour de la guerre froide qui empêcherait l'exten-  sion de relations mutuellement avantageuses, l'idée d'une coopération basée sur la coexistence  pacifique entre Etats à systèmes sociaux différents se fraie inlassablement son chemin,
4,4 L'aboutissement fructueux de la Conférence sur la sécurité et la coopération en Europe cons-  titue à nos yeux un événement de toute première importance. Ce fut le corollaire de l'évolution  positive engendrée par le processus de détente, sur notre continent. L'Acte final de la Conférence  d'Helsinki est un document collectif sans précédent, où sont formulés les principes régissant les  rapports entre Etats à systèmes sociaux différents et qui reflète la volonté de ces derniers d'ins-  taurer entre eux une coopération mutuellement avantageuse.
4,5 Ce dont il s'agit maintenant, c'est de donner vie à ces principes. Nous sommes résolus à  appliquer l'Acte final dans tous ses aspects, et nous nous attendons à ce que les autres Etats  fassent de même.
4.6 Les résultats de la Conférence d'Helsinki ouvrent la voie à l'assainissement et à l'améliora-  tion du climat international sur tous les continents. Mais il reste dans le monde des: foyers dange-  reux de tension qui menacent continuellement la paix et le processus de détente. La situation au  Moyen-Orient demeure au premier plan de nos préoccupations. Nous avons toujours été partisans  d'une solution globale, politique et pacifique, pleinement conforme à l'initiative de paix de l'Union  soviétique. Elle part du principe qu'il ne saurait y avoir de paix dans cette partie du monde tant  que les causes du conflit n'auront pas été éliminées, et que la crise du Liban ne serait pas sur-  venue, elle non plus, s'il y avait eu un règlement politique global. Une solution définitive et équi-  table ne peut intervenir qu'à condition que la politique d'agression et de domination de la part  d'Israël ne soit plus soutenue par les forces de l'impérialisme mondial et qu'on respecte le droit  inaliénable du peuple arabe de Palestine à la création de son propre Etat. Nous sommes tous  témoins du fait regrettable que souvent on ne respecte pas les résolutions des Nations Unies et  même celles de l'Unesco qui concernent la détente et la liquidation des foyers de tension. J'entends  par là les résolutions concernant Israël et la résolution sur la création des conditions favorables  à la transformation du cessez-le-feu en une paix durable et à l'unification pacifique accélérée de la  Corée. Il y a lieu de déplorer que, trente ans après la défaite du fascisme allemand et du milita-  risme nippon, nous assistions à la naissance de nouveaux régimes fascistes (Chili), à des manifes-  tations d'arbitraire raciste, tout spécialement en République d'Afrique du Sud et en Rhodésie.
4.7 Monsieur le Président, la République socialiste tchécoslovaque fait partie des pays où la  propagande belliciste ou fasciste et toute incitation à l'intolérance ethnique ou raciale sont con-  sidérées comme des délits. Nous sommes un pays où le chômage n'existe pas, un pays dont tous  les citoyens bénéficient de la sécurité dans tous les aspects de leur existence, y compris sur le  plan des garanties juridiques. Le quinzième congrès du parti communiste tchécoslovaque, qui a  eu lieu cette année, a exprimé de manière frappante les aspirations des masses populaires à un  relèvement important du niveau de vie. De même, les élections générales libres qui ont récem-  ment eu lieu ont apporté la preuve de l'unité de notre peuple, en montrant les possibilités consi-  dérables offertes au citoyen de la Tchécoslovaquie socialiste pour 1' exercice de ses droits démo-  cratiques. Tout cela découle de l'expérience historique de nos peuples, de leurs traditions huma-  nitaires et nationales profondes qui ne peuvent pleinement s'épanouir que dans notre société socia-  liste. Nos plans d'édification du socialisme et leur mise en oeuvre témoignent de la sincérité de  notre effort pour sauvegarder et renforcer la paix mondiale.
4.8 C'est pourquoi notre politique étrangère continuera de s'élever contre toute tendance à  inverser l'évolution internationale pour revenir à la période de la guerre froide, de la confronta-  tion, de l'inimitié entre les peuples et les Etats, de l'exploitation colonialiste et néocolonialiste.  Par contre, nous soutiendrons pleinement la politique de coexistence pacifique et de développe-  ment de la coopération internationale.  J'Union  n  ions
4.9 La République socialiste tchécoslovaque soutient pleinement les initiatives de paix de  soviétique dans le domaine du désarmement. Elle donne son appui à la proposition de signer t  traité mondial sur le non-recours à la force et à la menace d'emploi de la force dans les relat  internationales, proposition faite par l'Union soviétique à la XXXIe session de l'Assemblée géné-  rale des Nations Unies. Nous considérons comme un impératif majeur de notre époque d'affranchir  l'humanité de la menace d'une guerre thermonucléaire. Nous n'entrevoyons pas d'autre solution  que de suivre la voie tracée par la Conférence d'Helsinki et de compléter la détente politique par  la détente militaire. Pour cette raison, nous soutiendrons pleinement le projet de résolution pro-  posé au titre du point 72 de l'ordre du jour par l'Union soviétique. La formulation de ce projet g
612      résolution exprime avec précision les tâches de notre Organisation dans 1 i ; ; ed =  ment, et elle est en pleine harmonie avec son Acte constitutif, Sasi da ds str
4,10 Notre objectif final doit être de mettre au service exclusif d  que l'homme a créé sur notre planète. En considérant les moyens financiers énormes consacrés actuellement aux armements - l'an dernier ces dépenses se sont montées à 300 milliards de dollars environ - nous pensons aux multiples usages qui pourraient & ; € tre faits de ces fonds en faveur de  l'homme, pour améliorer ses conditions d'existence. Ces moyens pourraient être affectés au  progrès général des pays mêmes qui les dépensent, ou encore utilisés pour remédier à l'état  d'arriération économique et sociale des pays en voie de dévelo  de ces fonds, d'assurer la transformation économique et sociale du monde contemporain. Le  nouvel ordre économique international, basé sur les principes de l'égalité, de l'indépendance de  l'avantage mutuel et de la non-ingérence dans les affaires intérieures, pourrait devenir réalité  dans un avenir qui n'est guère lointain, L'inégalité économique et sociale régnant actuellement  dans le monde est un phénomène anachronique. Nous ne saurions attendre que la responsabilité du  sort du monde soit assumée à part égale, ou presque égale, par des hommes qui ne connaissent  que la famine, la souffrance et la misère et par des propriétaires d'immenses ensembles indus-  triels ou domaines fonciers tels qu'il en existe partout dans le monde. Ce sont là des différences  qu'il faut éliminer, afin de permettre à tous les pays de participer équitablement à la division  internationale du travail.  u bien-être de l'homme tout ce  ppement. Il serait facile, au moyen
4,11 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, nous vivons dans un siècle qui connaît des  changements scientifiques, techniques et sociaux profonds. La vie change autour de nous presque  au jour le jour, et chacun de nous le ressent intensément. Si l'homme d'aujourd'hui ne veut pas  seulement subir les mutations qui se produisent autour de lui, il doit penser à l'avenir beaucoup  plus qu'auparavant, découvrir cet avenir et ne pas attendre qu'il survienne, En septembre dernier  s'est tenue en Tchécoslovaquie une réunion internationale de l'Unesco ayant pour thème "la révo-  lution scientifique et technique et les sciences sociales'. Un des participants à cette réunion a  comparé la situation dans laquelle vit l'homme d'aujourd'hui à celle du pilote d'un avion à réaction  qui après avoir décollé ne connaît pas son aéroport de destination, Il a exprimé ainsi l'inquiétude  devant le sort que connaftrait la civilisation si l'homme ne l'orientait vers les buts qu'il s'est fixés.  Le fait que toute l'activité humaine est étroitement liée aux résultats obtenus par la science et la  technique constitue un phénomène général de la société d'aujourd'hui, Pour que le potentiel spiri-  tuel puisse se traduire en force productive, il faut l'adapter à l'homme d'aujourd'hui.
4,12 Un rôle irremplaçable incombe ici à l'éducation et à l'instruction, Ce n'est done pas un  hasard si la priorité est généralement donnée à l'éducation et à l'instruction, comme en témoignent  d'ailleurs les programmes de l'Unesco, Une tâche immense se pose à l'heure actuelle à l'éducation  et à l'instruction, à savoir : dégager le potentiel créateur prodigieux que recèle l'intelligence de  tout homme, et donc l'humanité tout entière. Ce potentiel créateur représente sans doute la valeur  la plus haute de l'époque actuelle. Il est inquiétant que la société actuelle n'utilise pas cette im-  mense richesse qui reste à découvrir dans chaque homme. Les centaines de millions d'illettrés  et de semi-illettrés qui vivent dans les différentes parties du monde, les systèmes scolaires  établis sur les principes de classe et de caste qui existent dans de nombreux pays évolués en  apportent des preuves bien convaincantes. Conscients de l'importance de l'éducation et de l'ins-  truction pour l'évolution future de la société, nous avons mis l'accent, dans les pays socialistes,  sur l'épanouissement et la mise en valeur des capacités créatrices de tous les hommes en vue de  permettre l'épanouissement des divers aspects de la personnalité humaine. À l'heure actuelle,  la République socialiste tchécoslovaque est en train de modifier le système scolaire pour que  toute la jeunesse suive un cycle d'enseignement obligatoire de dix ans, Nous mettons sur pied,  d'autre part, un large éventail de formes et de méthodes d'éducation permanente, et nous exa-  minons les possibilités de moderniser le contenu, les méthodes et les moyens de l'éducation pour  pouvoir nous attaquer plus efficacement à l'amélioration des capacités intellectuelles de l'homme  contemporain et le mener plus aisément et plus vite à l'instruction véritable.
4.13 Nous sommes sincèrement heureux de constater que ces problèmes se trouvent au centre des  préoccupations de l'Unesco. Nos autorités chargées de l'enseignement considèrent que le pro-  gramme de l'Unesco en matière d'éducation est très bien élaboré et favorable au développement  de la coopération internationale. Il se peut toutefois que notre attitude soit différente à l'égard de  certains projets. Cela ne constitue nullement un obstacle à une coopération efficace, car c'est de  la confrontation des opinions que jaillissent les idées. Nous nous emploierons à faire en sorte que  l'Unesco se penche encore davantage sur les problèmes de l'éducation pour la compréhension inter-  nationale. En effet, à notre avis, tous les grands problèmes du monde d'aujourd'hui - la paix, le  désarmement, les droits de l'homme, la lutte contre le colonialisme, le racisme et les autres  formes de violence - se trouvant au premier plan doivent être abordés à l'école. Le développe-  ment des forces de production, qui permet à l'humanité de changer le monde matériel, a connu  une accélération sans précédent au cours de ces dernières décennies et apporté nombre de nou-  veaux problèmes. Il faut que nous nous rendions compte que les hommes ne peuvent maîtriser les  conditions de leur propre vie avant qu'ils ne les créent. Cependant, dès qu'ils les créent, ils en  subissent l'influence et les contraintes. Le caractère du travail humain matérialisé par la trans-  formation de ces conditions contribue à décider aussi de l'épanouissement futur de l'homme lui-  même,
15 4.14 C'est la raison pour laquelle nous appuyons pleinement le programme de l'Unesco relatif à  l'étude des conséquences de la civilisation. Il s'agit notamment de projets tels que ‘L'homme et  la biosphere" et le "Programme hydrologique international", auxquels s'intéressent beaucoup n  institutions spécialisées qui sont prêtes à élargir davantage la coopération concernant ces pete  Elles se rendent compte que l'eau êt l'air pourraient bientôt manquer, de même que les dre  alimentaires. Nous accordons également notre plein appui a la décision du Directeur général de  proclamer une Année internationale de la science et de la technique, qui devrait attirer l'attention  sur les conséquences sociales de l'essor de la science et de la technique et contribuer à orienter  la science et la technique de telle sorte qu'elles maftrisent beaucoup mieux que jusqu'ici les consé  quences de leurs propres interventions dans le monde matériel et dans la vie des hommés,
4.15 Un rôle important pourrait incomber à cet égard aux sciences sociales. Depuis un certain  temps nous ressentions l'absence dans les activités de l'Unesco d'un programme pilote des sciences  sociales qui soit réellement attractif. Nous croyons que la création d'un secteur spécial au sein du  Secrétariat de l'Unesco permettra de remédier à cette situation. Le programme relatif aux  sciences sociales devrait se concentrer à notre avis sur les recherches concernant la paix et no-  tamment la coexistence pacifique ainsi que sur les problèmes de la coopération entre pays ayant  des régimes sociaux différents, sur les aspects de la coopération entre les pays qui sont parvenus  à des stades de développement économique et culturel différents, sur la liquidation des séquelles  du colonialisme, ete. Le problème du désarmement et de ses incidences sur l'essor de la civili-  sation et l'augmentation du niveau de vie devraient constituer un thème important de ces recherches,
4.16 Nous considérons le développement de la coopération culturelle, tant dans le domaine de la  protection et de la connaissance du patrimoine culturel que dans celui du développement de la  création artistique, comme un élément non moins essentiel des activités de l'Unesco. En effet, la  culture représente en un certain sens la dimension historique du monde contemporain,
4.17 Si l'homme veut bien connaître les phénomènes sociaux complexes de notre époque et déter-  miner ses activités futures, il doit prendre conscience de la continuité historique. La connaissance  du patrimoine culturel apprend à discerner les valeurs positives dans la vie de l'homme, révèle  les facteurs qui ont freiné et ceux qui ont accéléré le progrès social, fait respecter le travail de  l'homme, crée la conscience et le sentiment de solidarité avec chaque combat pour le progrès et  l'amélioration de la vie et incite à mépriser tout ce qui a entraîné le retard, la misère matérielle  et spirituelle. La conscience de l'appartenance à l'humanité tout entière est le fondement de la  conscience de l'appartenance à la communauté nationale et en même temps à la communauté inter-  nationale. Une meilleure connaissance de la culture d'autres nations entraîne une estime mutuelle,  qui contribue à son tour à encourager la coexistence pacifique.
4.18 Si je peux encore revenir à la comparaison de l'homme d'aujourd'hui au pilote d'un avion  qui a décollé sans connaître son aéroport de destination, je devrais compléter cette comparaison  en disant que la situation de ce pilote serait encore pire s'il oubliait d'où il venait. C'est la raison  pour laquelle nous considérons comme particulièrement utile l'activité de l'Unesco en matière de  protection du patrimoine culturel, notamment lorsqu'il s'agit d'un passé vivant. Nous appuyons  sans réserve le projet de recommandation concernant la sauvegarde des ensembles historiques  ou traditionnels et leur rôle dans la vie contemporaine. Comme le colloque international récent  organisé en Tchécoslovaquie et consacré aux problèmes de la vie d'aujourd'hui dans les ensembles  historiques l'a montré, les spécialistes tchécoslovaques peuvent apporter à la coopération inter-  nationale leur très riche expérience en ce domaine.
4.19 Certes, il est possible de faire beaucoup aussi dans les autres domaines de la culture notam-  ment la création artistique contemporaine. Nous estimons que l'Unesco pourrait encourager  encore davantage la connaissance mutuelle de la création culturelle contemporaine des différentes  nations. L'Unesco devrait à notre avis diffuser elle-même directement les chefs-d'oeuvre de la  littérature mondiale, des arts plastiques, du théâtre, de la musique, notamment ceux qui  expriment l'hostilité à la guerre ou la foi en un avenir meilleur, ou qui visent à encourager  l'amitié entre les nations. Par contre, l'Unesco ne devrait pas encourager la diffusion des oeuvres  qui expriment le désespoir, la désolation ou le scepticisme ou qui s'opposent directement à  l'éthique de l'homme civilisé.
4.20 Le développement de la coopération internationale en matière d'éducation, de science et de  culture ne se réalise pas, bien entendu, sans un échange d'informations bien conçu et systémati-  quement exécuté. C'est pourquoi nous appuyons aussi le programme d'activités de l'Unesco dans  ce domaine. Bien que nous soyons conscients du fait que l'activité d'information intéresse tous les  secteurs d'activité de l'Unesco, nous sommes cependant d'avis qu'il faudra en temps voulu évaluer  les résultats de la réorganisation de ce secteur. Nous apprécions hautement la contribution  apportée par l'Unesco à l'établissement d'un système d'échange d'informations en matière de  science, d'éducation et de culture, domaine dans lequel la République socialiste tchécoslovaque  a apporté également sa contribution. Toutefois un problème se pose : celui des mass médias,  secteur dans lequel la coopération est particulièrement nécessaire à l'époque actuelle, La colla-  boration internationale dans ce domaine devrait toutefois influer très favorablement sur la paix  et la coopération entre les peuples et par là jouer le rôle prévu dans le projet de déclaration su,  les principes fondamentaux de l'emploi des moyens de grande information en vue du renforcemen  de la paix et de la compréhension internationale et de la lutte contre la propagande belliciste, le  racisme et l'apartheid.
4,21 Il est notoire que les idées ne deviennent des forces réelles qu'  dans la conscience des hommes. En ce sens, les mass médias - la presse, la radio et la télévisi sont à l'époque actuelle un instrument particulièrement efficace ayant une portée assez La Fl atteindre la quasi-totalité des habitants de notre continent. Il est donc juste de leur detre en ne pas utiliser abusivement les ressources qui leur sont allouées - pour élever la culture : peuple - en vue d'attiser les divergences nationales et les passions nationalistes, de provoquer  la haine raciale et l'hostilité à la coexistence des peuples et au renforcement de ja ru et  au moment où elles pénètrent 15
4,22 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, notre délégation est convaincue que le  programme de l'Unesco soumis à l'examen et à l'approbation de cette Conférence peut contribuer  grandement à la mise en oeuvre des nobles buts qui ont présidé à la fondation de l'Organisation  il y a trente ans. L'histoire témoigne sans équivoque qu'il ne suffit pas de se préoccuper de 1! aio:  lioration des conditions de vie et du niveau culturel, mais que ces efforts doivent être accompagnés  d'un travail efficace et persévérant en vue de faire naître dans la conscience de la population le  sentiment qu'elle appartient à une communauté universelle et la conviction que la coexistence  pacifique et la solidarité internationale qui en découle sont indispensables.
4,23 Nous ne devons toutefois pas concevoir la communauté universelle comme une notion  abstraite : il doit s'agir de créer une communauté profondément démocratique et socialement  juste pour tous les hommes sans distinction de race, de langue, de sexe et de religion. Nous  croyons que ces efforts peuvent être couronnés de succès; si nous réussissons à concentrer nos  forces et nos moyens, dans le cadre du programme proposé, sur des actions pilotes d'envergure  mondiale et à assurer par là que les ressources soient utilisées avec le maximum d'efficacité.
4.24 Avant de conclure, permettez-moi de souligner une fois de plus l'appui que nous accordons  aux programmes et activités de l'Unesco. Je tiens à vous assurer encore une fois que les institu-  tions éducatives, scientifiques et culturelles de la Tchécoslovaquie accroftront leur contribution  à la mise en oeuvre de ces programmes, afin que nous puissions réaliser notre objectif principal  - permettre aux générations actuelles et futures de mener une vie pacifique, favoriser le progrès  continu de la civilisation et de l'élévation du niveau culturel et moral de l'humanité tout entière.  Merci.  (M. Thomas (France) prend la présidence)
5, Le PRESIDENT. -  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Tchécoslovaquie. Je donne maintenant la parole à  S. Exc. le Dr Chrysostomos Sofianos, ministre de l'éducation et chef de la délégation de Chypre.
6.1 Mr, SOFIANOS (Cyprus):  Mr, President, Mr. Director-General, Mr, Chairman of the Executive Board, honourable  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I take great pleasure, Mr. President, in expressing my heartiest  congratulations and those of the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on your election, We con-  sider of particular significance the fact that this great international assembly is taking place on  African soil. This emphasizes the role of the African peoples in promoting the future course of  international cultural relations. I take particular pride in the fact that Cyprus is bound by strong  historical and cultural links with the host country. I also have pleasure in extending my sincere  congratulations to the new members of Unesco,
6.2 I should also like to offer my warmest congratulations to the Director-General of Unesco.  Since undertaking his duties two years ago, he has, indeed, performed his task with competence  and devotion, The Director-General's contribution is reflected in the documents placed before  us in an attempt to guide the work of the present Conference. We feel sure that the directives  he is providing to Unesco and the expectations and imagination revealed in documents 19 C/4 and
19 C/5 will result in a period rich in activity and in a contribution that will benefit mankind in  general. Document 19 C/4 contains evidence of an essentially medium-term planning and goes  beyond the limits of a preliminary or experimental study.
6.3 We live ina period of so many changes and so many realignments, As the Director-General  rightly observes in his introduction, the world has never before been so interconnected and inter-  dependent and yet had so many differences and so much variety as today. World social and politi-  cal conditions and contradictions create problems and define sometimes suffocatingly narrowlimits  Which create obstacles and undermine the work of international organizations that, like Unesco,  have such lofty aspirations. Unfortunately, cases where we witness situations that offend against  human decency are by no means isolated, Principles and eternal values are trodden underfoot by  the strong without the least hesitation, and international organizations appointed to safeguard these  principles and values prove painfully incapable of protecting them effectively.
6.4 I would not wish, Mr. President, to give my address a political flavour nor to use this ros-  trum as a platform for political problems, I am entirely familiar with, I accept and respect, the  principles and Constitution of Unesco; and it is because I accept these principles that, as Minister  of Education but also as a person who professionally belongs to education, I cannot but raise a  voice of protest against what, for more than two years, has, in the field of human rights and hu-  man dignity, of education and the cultural heritage, been committed by an invader at the expense  of the Republic of Cyprus.
15 6.5 The facts, Mr, President and distinguished delegates, are well known, Turkey, a neighhoy  country and a member of this international organization, using as a pretext the unsuccessfy iy  engineered against President Archbishop Makarios by the previous regime in Greece, the de. ?  plorable military junta, invaded Cyprus in July 1974. The true purpose of this invasion was to  abolish what by international guarantees it had a duty to safeguard, namely the independence  integrity and constitutional order of the island. As a result of the invasion 40 per cent of the  island has been occupied, one-third of the population were driven from their homes, thousands  of innocent people were killed, and thousands of others are still missing; churches have beep dese.  crated, 31 per cent of all primary schools, 38 per cent of all secondary schools and 80 per cent of  all special schools have been occupied, school stores have been destroyed, thousands of school -  children and teachers have been made refugees. In respect of the cultural heritage, in which Cyprus  with her five-thousand year history is particularly rich, the effects of the Turkish invasion haye  been really disastrous. I wonder whether the bombing of archaeological sites, the looting of cyl.  tural treasures, the cutting off of thousands of people from the natural and social environment  which has been theirs for thousands of years can be justified and covered by the pretext of a so-  called "operation to restore constitutional order, or can be reconciled with the declared prin-  ciples of Unesco.
6.6 It is not my intention, Mr, President, to refer to the political aspect of the invasion, It does  not concern Unesco and has been repeatedly examined by the United Nations General Assembly and  the Security Council, Numerous resolutions have been passed but Turkey, for its part, has per-  sistenly ignored them. What I should like to stress is directly connected with Unesco!'s aims and  with the present situation in Cyprus as regards human rights, education, the island's cultural heri-  tage, and basic moral values, Unesco's primary objective (Objective 1.1 in document 19 C/4) is  the promotion of research into ways of ensuringhuman rights. Atthis very moment, Mr, President,  hundreds of people who remained in the Karpass, the island's eastern peninsula, and were subse-  quently enclaved there, are daily being forcedtoleavetheirhomes, They are driven from their  homes and communities, their place being taken by Turks from Turkey in an attempt on the part  of the invader to upset the demographic composition of the island, At the present rate at which  people who have had the same roots since the dawn of history are being driven from their homes,  and with the ever-increasing transfer of Turks from Anatolia, it is only a question of months be-  fore the whole area of Cyprus now under occupätion will become completely Turkish, What is  happening now in Cyprus, Mr. President, is sheer retrogression to colonialism, Itisa phenome-  non that survives in other parts of the world as well, violating fundamental human rights and de-  stroying the cultural identity of people. The Greeks living in Turkish enclaves daily face problems  and difficulties deliberately created by the Turks in an attempt to force these Greeks to seek asylum  in the areas controlled by the Cyprus Government, The basic rights of choice of dwelling, freedom  of movement and education are being pitilessly and shamelessly violated, During the third round  of inter-communal talks held in August 1975 in Vienna, under the auspices of the United Nations  Secretary-General, the Occupation Authorities agreed to provide Greeks living in the Turkish en-  claves with such facilities as would make it possible for them to live a normal life, These included  proper medical care, the right to practise their religion and normal education. In spite of these  agreements, absolutely nothing has been done. On the contrary, as a result of measures taken by  the Occupation Authorities, the situation has deteriorated. Doctors, priests and teachers who were  living in the occupied areas of Cyprus have been forced to leave. I would ask you, Mr, President,  to allow me to refer briefly to the state of education in these areas, education in the widest sense  of the term. Unesco's special interest in this field is reflected in a great many of the points made  in the Draft Medium-Term Plan (Objectives 1.5, 2.3, 3.5, 3.6) and the facts I shall give clearly  illustrate the hardships being endured in education by our people.
6.7 Prior to the Turkish invasion, 40 per cent of all schools were in the areas now occupied. A  third of the total school population and teaching staff attended these schools. Of the pupils and  teachers attending these schools a considerable number have been forced to escape to the free  areas. Those secondary and technical school students who were enclaved remained for two years  without any schooling, The Occupation Authorities did not allow schools to function. The Ministry  of Education made an effort during the school year 1974-1975 to set up correspondence courses  for enclaved students but this arrangement proved impossible owing to obstruction from the Oc-  cupation Authorities, Only a small percentage of children in these areas managed to attend school,  As a result of the Occupation Authorities’ refusal to allow teachers to go and work in the occupied  areas, it proved necessary to employ elderly retired teachers and unqualified staff,
6.8 During the school year 1975-1976 the situation deteriorated further, The Turks created more  difficulties despite the agreement reached at the Vienna talks, Many children were forced toleave  for the free areas in order to be able to continue their education, A number of teachers were also  forced to leave. The Occupation Authorities! attitude to both teachers and pupils forces them al-  most daily to abandon their ancestral homes and take refuge in the free areas. Teachers are  questioned by the "police'' in school time and are sent from one village to another without reasof.  Greek schoolchildren are obliged to hoist and salute the Turkish flag. Books sent by the Cyprus  Government through the Red Cross are withheld. Qualified staff are not granted permits to enter :  the occupied areas and to staff schools. Greek school buildings house Turkish children while Gree  children have been condemned to illiteracy for the past two years.
11 in 1975 had 6.9 The Director-General of Unesco informs us that 130 million children aged 6- a r  no formal education, I would ask you to consider that to that number must be added the
616        Cypriot children in areas under Turkish occupation,  because there were no schools available but because t  operate and prevented teachers from entering the occ  without interference. I should also like you to note that our Government has repeatedly protested  to the Director-General of Unesco about the flagrant violations by the Turks of fund:  tional rights, and that it has further sought Unesco's help and Sy A  These children did not attend school, not  he Turks refused to allow the schools to  upied areas or from performing their duties
6,10 Iam sure, Mr, President, that all distinguished delegates at this Conference are well aware  of the historical heritage of our island. Being at the cross-roads of three continents, Cyprus has  been influenced by civilizations that have left a strong mark on world culture, From this point of  view it may be emphatically stated that the Cypriot cultural heritage forms a basic part of the very  foundations of world civilization and, as such, belongs to mankind, But, above all, the island has  always been a place of peaceful coexistence and harmonious relations between Heterogeneous cul -  tural traditions, a fact that constitutes an important precedent and an invaluable historical experi-  ence in view of contemporary efforts to achieve international unity, of which this Organization is  one of the principal instruments.
6.11 The Government of Cyprusis grateful to Unesco for theaidithas offered tothe Department of An-  tiquities and other government services for the purpose of the preservation of the island's cultural  heritage. The aid offered us some years ago for the consolidation of St, Sophia Cathedral in Nicosia,  for restoring and preserving a fourth century B,C, Greek ship found at the bottom of the  Cypriot folk songs - all this is deeply appreciated by the Government and people of Cyprus, I  should also mention the interest in preserving Cyprus' cultural heritage which Unesco showed  directly after the Turkish invasion. Mr. Jacques Dailbard, a special representative of the Or-  ganization, visited Cyprus in 1975 and 1976 in an attempt to safeguard the antiquities and other  treasures in the occupied area. In spite of Mr, Dailbard's strenuous efforts, his mission did not,  unfortunately, meet with the success it deserved, due to continual and systematic obstruction by  the Tukish Occupation Authorities. We now have a good deal of fully substantiated informa-  tion about the continual and deliberate destruction of the island's cultural heritage. Films  shown recently on English television, and photographs and news items published in reliable news-  papers abroad, give a picture entirely unacceptable to Unesco. Treasures have been stolen from  churches, from Famagusta Museum and from private collections and have been offered for sale on  European and other markets. At Dover, the United Kingdom Authorities found and confiscated  precious icons in the car of a Turk from Cyprus. Part of a valuable private collection was put up  for sale at Christie's in London and, after the necessary steps had been taken, was subsequently  handed back to us, Archaeological finds vanished after the invasion, What happened to the items  discovered by the Canadian Mission at Soli and the American Missionat Morphou are only two minor  instances, Even experts are not allowed to approach archaeological sites where they have worked  for years, while illegal excavations are being carried out at most of these places. As I said be-  fore, the archaeological treasures and the art treasures of an island rich in tradition do not belong  only to the inhabitants of that island. They belong to the world. It is a cultural heritage that be-  longs to every inhabitant of this planet of ours. Will the world, and in particular Unesco, allow  these treasures to be treated in this manner? Will they allow these treasures to be treated as the  spoils of war and as mere merchandise? Will they allow those perpetrating this outrage to go on  undisturbed, uncondemned and unexposed? Unesco must be continually and effectively on the alert  in Cyprus to protect those cultural treasures bequeathed to mankind by a rich past, We hope that  this Conference will suggest practical measures to save the common cultural heritage which is at  this moment in grave danger in Cyprus.
6.12 This concern for the fate of the cultural heritage of Cyprus as well as the question of human  rights is not limited to the Cyprus Government and the Cypriot people, It has reached international  proportions and I can assure you, Mr, President, that world organizations regard this treatment  as a blow to international feelings of human and cultural solidarity. As an example, I should like  to mention two specific cases in which international opinion openly condemns Turkish abuses in  Cyprus and demands international protection for human rights and the cultural heritage: (1) On
18 August 1976 the Central Committee of the World Council of Churches unanimously approved a  resolution to the effect that the Council is concerned at the living conditions of the 200, 000 refu-  gees in Cyprus and the failure to implement repeated United Nations resolutions. The resolution  further expresses anxiety at the continual expulsion of Greek Cypriots from their homes in the  Turkish-held areas and the desecration of holy places and churches, It goes on to demand an end  to the organized colonization of the island by Turks from Turkey, the return of refugees to their  homes and the resumption of intercommunal talks under the auspices of the United Nations; (2) At  the recent X Vth International Congress of Byzantine Studies held last September, the International  Union of Byzantine Studies, representing approximately 50 countries, in a unanimous resolution ex-  pressed its members! anxiety at the fate of Byzantine monuments in the occupied areas of Cyprus  and addressed an appeal to international organizations to intervene for the protection of Byzantine  treasures in Cyprus that are being looted or mishandled.
6.13 Mr, President, in conclusion, I should like to express the hope that the violation of basic  human rights in Cyprus, the curse of illiteracy forced upon so many Cypriot children, the destruc-  tion of so many art treasures, will not shake our confidence in the principles of Unesco and the  Charter of the United Nations. We shall go on believing that today's hardships are only a small  dark stain that will fade away, and that the spirit of justice embodied in the principles of Unesco
15 will finally prevail. We will endure and persist, come what may, With the Turkish Cypriots -  who are suffering as much as we are as a result of the Turkish Occupation - we shall persist in  our efforts to find a solution to our present sufferings. We express our faith in the principle of  coexistence and co-operation. In the past, when there was no interference or instigation from  abroad, we lived with the Turkish-Cypriots in brotherhood and friendship - for they are part of  us, they are part of Cyprus. Our great hope is that this spirit will prevail again in the future  In fact this is the only true way leading to the prosperity of the two communities and the desired  peace in the area, Thank you, Mr. President.
7. Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie le délégué de Chypre. Je suis informé que le délégué de la Turquie, considérant  que son pays a été mis en cause dans l'intervention de l'orateur précédent, demande à user du  droit de réponse. Je lui donne la parole.
8.1 M. TEVS (Turquie). -  Monsieur le Président, l'orateur qui vient de terminer son exposé ayant injustement et à  diverses reprises mentionné le nom de .mon pays, je me vois dans l'obligation de prendre briève-  ment la parole pour faire usage de mon droit de réponse.
8.2 Toutes les allégations de l'orateur précédent sont sans fondement et nous avons de sérieuses  réserves aussi bien sur le fond que sur la forme de sa déclaration. La délégation turque ne  manquera certainement pas de répondre à toutes ces allégations lorsqu'elle présentera son exposé  dans le cadre du débat général. Il est vraiment regrettable que l'orateur en question ait exploité  à outrance la tribune de l'Unesco pour développer des considérations politiques. Monsieur le  Président, je ne veux pas prendre davantage le temps précieux de la Conférence, et me contente  seulement que mes paroles soient reproduites in extenso dans le compte rendu de la séance. Je  vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
9. Le PRESIDENT. -  Je remercie le délégué de la Turquie. Je donne la parole à S. Exc. Mme Maria Zakharieva,  vice-ministre des affaires étrangères, présidente de la Commission nationale bulgare pour  l'Unesco et chef de la délégation de la Bulgarie.
10.1 F-xa 3AXAPBEBA (Bosrapus):  Ysaxaemsiñ rocnouux Ilpencemarernb, name H TOcnoja, JeBATHANUATAH ceccun l'eneparsHoù  KOH®epeHIIHH OcTaHeTCcs MAMATHOH B HcTopHH IOHECKO. Sr0 = nepeas cecchs l'enepanbnoñ koude-  peHuHH, KOTOpasi NPOXOAUT HA CBOGONHON H HesaBHcHMOÏÀ ahpukaHcKoH TeppHTropnH. BOT moyemy or  HMeHH Gonrapekoñ xerreraunH 4 xouy HCKPeHHe nOGJIaroxapHTs npasHrenbcrso KexHnn, BasBmee Ha  ce64 TpyJHyD 3amauy OPTaHH3aLHM TaKOTO KPyNHOTO H CHOXHOTO MeponpusaTHs. Ilonbayrocb cHyuaem,  YTOO5! BHPASHTE Hamme TJiyboKoe yBaxeHHe Hapogy KeHHH, ybe rOCTENpPHHMCTBO MEI NOYYBCTBOBAJH  yxXe c NepBOro AH npeOsIBAHKA Ha NPeKPEeCHON KeHUHCKOH 3eme,
10.2 Tocnoyux IlpencenaTens, € GONbBINM yYNOBOIIBCTBHEM 5 MNPHCOEAHHAIOCh KO BCEM TEM, KTO ÿXe  mnosupasu Bac c H36paHHeMm Ha BLICOKHÏÀ H OTBETCTBEHHHIH MOCT, H XeJlalo BAM yCHNemHOH JeaTelbr  HOCTH Kak 371ecb B HañpooHn, Tak H Ha NPOTAXeHHH BCeroO Bamero AByXJeTHerO Mangara, Ilossonbre  TaKXe BbIPA3HTb Hally BbICOKyDD OLeHKy paG60re r-xu Maras Ho6opy, KOTOpas ycnemHo PyKOBOAWIA  BOCeMHAgUaToH ceccheñ l'enepanbHoñ kou®hepeHIHH H BHecJla CBOH BKJIAJ B ee ycrneuHoe sapepueHHe,  P-xa HoG6opy Osina nepsoñ H nOka eJUHCTBEHHOH XeHMHHOH, H3GpaHHOÂ 3a TPUAUATH JET Ha 9TOT BH”  coxHñ mOCT.
10.3 Tocnogux IMpexcexarenb, sa npomexuHe FOAL BCE MbI CTAJIH CBHIETEJIAMH Psa BAXHEX cobs-  THI B MeX1yHapoxHoï xHsux. Bce Hapos! c parocrbio BCTPETHIH No6ely FeponuecKOro BBETHAMCKOT  ro Hapora H ero ob6benuHeHHe. Mb OTHOCHMCS C HCKPEHHel cHMNAaTHeHK K yCHIHAM CounanneruuecKoï  Pecny6auku BbeTHaM, HanpaB/JleHHbM Ha ycTpaHeHHe nOcJleIcTBHä BOñHb HA CBOÂ MHOTOCTPANANb  HO} 3eme, Ha NporpeccHBHHe COUHANBHO-SKOHOMHYeCKHE H KyJIbTypHble NPeOOpasoBaHHa, a TaKXe K  ycunusm Hapoznos Jlaoca u Kam601xH, NPUCTYNHBIIUM K CTPOHTEJBCTBY HOBOË CBOGONHOH XH3HH. Ipo-  mJI0 HEMHOTHM Goble rona, Kak B XeJbCHHKM 3aKOHUHIOCH Copemanne no GesonacHocrH H COTPYA®  HHuecTBy B EBpone. DTo 6riia GecnnopHas no6ema cHIbl pasyMa, LOGPOH BOJIH H AKTHBHOTO cTpemies  HHS K paspsifke. MsI Ty60Ko y6eXneHsr, 4TO qyx XeJIbCHHKH, qyx Paspsiikd GyneT KpemnHyTb H COST  ZacT GnaronpusaTHsE yCHOBHA AA OGecHeueHns MUpPa H GesonacHOcTH He TONBKO B Eppore, HO HBO  Bcem Mupe, 6y1eT coneñcTBOBATE yNyUMEHNIO YCHOBHÂ AIX B3aUMONOHUMAHHS H BEANMOBHITONHOFO C0”  Tpy1HHYuecTrBa MexAy CTPAHAMH C PasJIHYUHBIMH MOJNHTHYUECKHMH H COLHAJBHEIMH CHCTEMAMH.
10.4 Cxasannoe Bsime cauxeTenbCTByeT O TOM, WTO npapurenborso Haponnoñ Peony6mmxu BonrapHi  BHICOKO OlleHMBaeT Kak BKJIa1 IOHECKO 5 cosganne GnaronpusrHoro knnmara ms ycneuHoro nposer  Nexus Copemanna B XelIbcHHKH, Tak H BCE KOHKPETHhIE MeponpH4arn4, HaMedeHHbe p IIpoekre npo-  rpammsI IOHECKO, BhITekanlie Hs PeKOMeHAALMI 3axnouurensHoro axra H MMe nue npaMoe HI  KOCBEHHOe OTHONEHHE K IeATEIBHOCTH Hamel Opranuzanuu,
10.5 C rny6oxuMm ynOBIETBOPeHHEM Mb OTMeYaeT, YTO smecb, B camoñ Abpure, pacnax KOJIOHHA/E™  HOW CHCTeMbl NPUBeJ K HOBEIM 3aMeydaTeJbHbIM NobejamM H KauyeCcTBEHHBIM O6leCTBEHHBIM npeo6pa307  BAHHAM. CONHIE CBO6OZE! B3OWIO Hal MosaMbukom H Auronoï. C oco6oñ paxocrbo MH mipuBeToTByex
618        orn HesaBHCcHMble CETOJHs CTPAHH B PAXax Hamel Oprannsanun, SI nones sipasHTb TaKXe H APyTHe CTPAHH, KOTOPHIE HeAaBHO GhIIM NPHHATH B UN  JOHECKO yxe BxomuT 141 rocyaapcrso. 9ror Gaxr cam no cebe rosopu named Oprannsauxn, O Gonee MOJHOM OCyIeCTBICHUH el NPYHLMIA yHUB  YIDCb cayyaeM, YUTOOH no-  eHrpl Hamel Opraunsaunmn, B  T O BO3pPOCmEM aBTOPUTETE  epcaïbHOCTH,
10.6 YuuTBIBas NOJNOXHTENBHHE NEPEMEHH B MeXAYHAPOTHOË O6CTau  eme pas r1y00Kÿ1D 03a609eHHOCTH B CBA3H C TParHYueCKHMN COGBITHS  nonxaeTc4a co cTopoHs Mapauns okkynauus apa6cxux 3eMeJb, HeB»INONHeHHe pesonouni Corera Be- sonacHocru OOH n IOHECKO. 3zecs, Ha adpukanckoii 3eMJle, BCe elle ecTb HapogsI, He MonyuHBENHE  HesaBHcHMOCTH, à B OXHOH YACTH KOHTHHEHTA cymecTrByoT TocynapcTea, B KOTOPpHIx, K cOXaJIeHHIO  pce elle rOCNOACTBYIOT BO3BEJEHHHE B PAHT TOCYNAPCTBEHHOË NONUTHKH aHTHTYMAHHBIE HIEH pacusMa  n anapreHza. Y Hac BbISbIBAIOoT INIy60KOe GecnoKkOÏcTRO npojon)xapmuecs Ma  meHHUs npas Yerosexka B Yuin u Mxnoñ Kopee.  OBKe, MBI He MOXEeM He BHIPAa3HTh  MH Ha B1nuxHeMm BocToke: npo-  CCOB»Ie H Tpy6rie Hapy-
10.7 Ins npasurenscTsa Hapognoñ Pecny61uxn Bonrapuu Gops6a sa MHD H pasopyxenne Hepasmenb-  HO cBñsaHa c GopB60ñ NPOTHB HeOKONOHHANU3MA, PacH3Ma, pacoroï IHCKPHMHHauHH H anaprenna.  [losTOMy MBI BHIPAXA@M COXaneHne, UTO NPHHATOE HA BOCEMHAANATON D'enepanbHoï KOH} epeHL HH  pemeHHe O BrpaboTke Bceo6ômeñ mexapaunn O pace H PacOBHIX npezpaccyzxkax 10 CHX NOP He Ocyue-  CTBIEHO MOJHOCTEI0. XOUy BHIPA3UTH HAMEXAY, YTO Hama Kon epenuus eme pas 06cyaur sror BONPOC  H TexeparbuebÀ ZAHPEKTOP npuMeT He0O6XOJUMHE MeEP»I 11H JOBeAeHHUSI 3TOr0 Aesla [0 MOJNIOXHTENbLHOTO  KOHIIa.
10.8 Mocnogux IlpencenaTens, MOAb3ysich CIYMAEM, si XO4y OTMETHTb B LeJIOM NO3HTHBHHÜ NPOLECC  B H3MEHEHWH CTPYKTYPH H pa6OTs CekpeTapuaTa, HaMeuawlieecs CcTPpeMJIeHHe K 9KOHOMHH, K BBEJe-  Huo Gonee op HeKTUBHEIX MeTOAOB pa6orsI Opraunsaunu. B cBSI3H ¢ STHM Mer MONXHE NOAYEPKHY TH  aKTHBHYI0 H NOJNOXHTENBHYID POIL camMoro l'eneparbHOro gupekropa IDHECKO r-ua M» Boy, HHnuna-  THBY H HACTOHYHBOCTB KOTOPOTO B STOM NPOIECCE OGHOBIEHHS BCE Mb BbICOKO HEHHM.
3aBHCHUT H Gynymas gesiTenpHocTs IOHECKO. Ho korja Ms! TOBOPHM H ZiymMaeM 06 TOM Oy nymeM,  cpasy Xe BbIIellIHeTCH OJHA XapaKTepHasi OCOGeHHOCTb NeBATHANUATOÏ ceccHu Hame# KOH®epeH mH.  Bnepsrie nocjie ceppesHoñ MOATOTOBKH MBI INPHMEM PelleHHs, KOTOPHE OTHOCHTCH He TOJIBKO K ABYX-  JIETHUM TPOrpaMMaM, HO H K G0Jlee NIHTE1BHOMy - IeCTHIeTHeMy NepHoNy. IIpuHATHe qoxyMeH-  ra 19 C/4 sBnsercs COOsITHEM, KOTOPOe BhIpaxaeT Gonee BHICOKYIO cTyNeHb 3penocTH Hameñ Opra-  HH3alHH, KOTOpasi B 3TOM BONpoce Oxasaïacb nHaHpyoumeñ B cicteme OOH,
10.10 B npunumme MBI NONOXHTENBHO paclieHHBaeM CONePXaHHe IMeCTHIETHETO mniaaHa. OTpPOMHBIN KOI-  JeKTHBHHH H HHAHBHAYaïIBHHH TPyA, KOTOPOTO NOTpeGOoBara ero paspaborka, MacmTabHOCTh H Npak-  rHuecKas IereHanpaBleHHOCT5 NlaHa npexcTaBIHIOT COGOÏ NONCTHHE HeUTO yHHKAïIBHOE B HCTOPHH  MeXIyHapOJHOTO corpyxHHuecTBAa B OGJACTAX, OTHOCHAIUXCH Kk komneTeHuun WHECKO, Psp uacreñ  viaHa, HanpHäMep, 60lbmHHcTB0 naparpahor, KkacalouHxca MHpa, YerroBeKa, MOJIOXeHHA XEHIHH, CO-  UHaïIbHHX Hayk, OGpasOBaHH4 H Ap., - sacIyxHBaeT BEICOKOH OIJeHKkH. Hapsiny c 9TMM, ecTeCTBEHHO,  HMelDDTC4 H TakHe MecTa, KOTOphle HYXJAIOTCH B YTOUHEHHAX H NONOJHeHUsX. Ms! BHPaXxaem Hanexay,  YTO OHM Gy1yT CHeJIaH;I CBOEBPEMEHHO H KOMIETEHTHO.
10.11 OnHOBPEMEHHO $1 xouy NOAYEPKHyTh, YTO HET HHKAKHX COMHEHHM OTHOCHTENBHO XapaKTepa  cpenHecpoyHoro IJiaHa. Mer CMOTPHM Ha Her'o Kak Ha KOJJIEKTHBHO BbIPa6OTaHHyD KOHLeNTyaJbHYy 0  opHexnraumo, conepxauyio OCHOBHbIe Led H samaun IOHECKO, pacuennsaem ero Kak JOKyMeHT, KO=  TOPHH CexperapHaT NOJIXKEH HMeTb B BHAy MPH paspaG6orke CBOHX KOHKPETHHIX ONepPaTHBHBIX saJau H  NPOrpaMM, nozjiexalliX coOTBeTcTByDIEMy yTrBepXxTeHn) l'enepanbHoñ Konhepenumeï Ha kaxzoH  ee chenypueHn ceccHH.
10.12 3xecb 4 xorena 6b, r-H IMpencemarenr, rakXxe nonuepKHyT5 OnpexensouylO Polk peumennä l’e-  Hepa/IbHOW Kou®epeHIHH H B OTHOMEHHH TAKOTO OCHOBHOTO GakTopa B JesTeJbHOCTH Halen Oprann-  sauuH Kak O_omxer. B ycHOBHax HbIHemHero 9KOHOMHYeCKOrO H BAJTIOTHONO KpH3Hca, MOTPscanliero  KarHTaJHeTHYeckHä MUD, TPyYAHOCTH, C KOTOPHIMH CTaNKHBAIOTCH MeXJAyHapOAHble OPraHHSaTHH BOT  obme, H, B YacTHocrn, IOHECKO, 0654äcHnMe1. HO HMeHHO TIOSTOMY H ®nxancosas pucuuniauHa B Op-  TaHH3a{nH JONXKHA 6blja 6b 651TH Goree BbICOKOËÂ, YeM Korza-au60, Mai He pas HacraWBaïH Ha npo-  BEJeHHH pasyMHOÏ NONUTHKH 6H01XeTHOÏ 9KOHOMHH, H, Kak 4 yXe cKkasaja, Mpl OTMeyaeM Te cepbes-  Hble ycH/IUsi, KOTOPhIe l'eneparbHbÀ AUPEKTOP NPHIOXHI B 9TOM HanpaB/eHHH. Ho ceronusa Gonee, “em  KOrJa-1n00, Hac CIexyer npaBHIbHO NMOHATH: CONNANHCTHYECKHE H pasBHBAalo HHeCA CTPaHsI He MOryT
6HTB OrBeTeTBEHH; | H HeCTU MaTepHanbHEE NOTEPH H3-3a 3aTPyAHEHHH H NOTPACEHKÜÉ B OKOHOMHKE  HeKOTOP»IX POCyAPCTB-YIEHOB.
10.13 C xpyroù CTOPOHEI, MBI C HeJOyMeHHeM CTajKkupaeMmcs C PaKTOM, 4TO HMEHHO B TaKOH nepHo  HeKOTOPHe rOcymapeTsa HapymanT onemeHTapHyo (QHHAHCOBYIO AUCHHUIUIMAY, 0643aTe1bHyD VIS HE  AOr0 rocypapcTBa-uieHa, H He ynlaunBaioT CBOUX YNEHCKUX B3HOCOB. Elle HeNOHATHEE TO 06CTO4TE1B  CTBO, YTO STO CONPOBOXJAETCH OTKPHITHIMH 3asBJIEHUAMH O HecorJacuy C HEKOTOPHIMH pemengamu .  DexepansHoñ KOH®epeHuuH, BPaxeO0HOoÏ KaMNaHHeñ cpelACTB MacCOBOH ui popvauuu. Cam co6oñ des  NpamHBaerc4a BONPOC: aB1HeTc4 JIM Tako 06pas neñcrBnH HCKIOYHTEJIBHON npuBHJIerHeñ onpeseseH  HEIX TOCyJaPCTB H AOmycTHMO 1H ro! Cnexoparo 6sl BCMOMHATE, “TO Y COUNAJIHCTHIECKHX see :  Halpumep, He pas Gsi1n OCHOBaHHsI ObITB HENOBONBHEMH PAHOM MOJHTHYECKHX peureHHH SHepEAS  HOÏ KoH®epenumn. Ho muno MHe He M3BECTHO HH OFHOFO clydyas HO CHX mop, Kora 651 i  JMCcTHYecKkast cTpaHa He ynmaunBaïIa CBOUX YIEHCKHX B3HOCOB BCJIeICTBHEe HeCOrJlIacHA C TeM HI
10.14 Ha maunoñ KonudhepeuHunH HaM NpexcTonT pemHTrb BaXHhle crpaTerHueckHe npo6aemsr, Op-  HOM H3 Hux spisercs pkiaan IOHECKO B 60peby 3a HOBLH MeXZAyHAPOIHbIH OKOHOMHUECKHÜŸ nops-  nok. Mp mOHHMaeM ero aKTyaJbHOCTh H BAXHOCTb, a TakXe H BCID eTO CHOXHOCTb, TIONOXHTen;-  HO OljeHMBaeM MNpOJeJaHHylo paGoTy 114 yTOYHEHHA MecTa IOHECKO B pamxax CHCTeMsbI OOH pH  paspaGorke B IeJIOM NPOGJeMbl HOBOTO 9KOHOMHYeCKOTO mnopszika. Ms y6eXIOeHbl TakXe g npa-  BHJIBHOÏ TEHIeHIMH, 3aJOXeHHOH B JOKyMEHTax, paccMaTPHBarDIIHX STOT BONPOC B TECHOH gapp-  CHMOCTH OT COLHAJBHOLO ycrpoñcrsa H MOPsAAKa TOocyAapcTB. Ham xaxeTcs, 4TO HyXHH eme  ycHIHH AJ ompejiesieHHs Gonee KOHKPeTHOTO BKJAZA IOHECKO B sTOM HanpaBieHHH. C Hameii  CTOPOHEL $1 MOTY TOJIBKO BHPA3HTh TOTOBHOCTH GONTAPCKOFO NPABHTENBCTBA COTPYIHUYATH BO HMg  NOCTHXeHHA HOBBIX H 60jee cnpase41HBsXx MeXAyHapOAHbIX OTHOMEHHH, MOTPEGHOCTE B KOTOPHIX Iagp-  HO Haspesa.
10.15 Hosas ByXJIeTHss NpOrpaMma AesTensHOCTH OpraHHsalyu, H3IOXKEHHAs B JOKyMeHTe 19 C/5,  ABJIIeTCS CylleCTBEHHIM MATOM Blepe] B COBEPNMEHCTBOBAHHH ABYXIIETHETO IUIAHHPOBaHHs, ipoekr  OTNHYAETCH SBHBIM CTPeMJ/IEHHEeM K COCPeJOTOuYeHHI0 BHHUMaHHs H ycHaui Cexperapuara Ha Gonee pax-  HBIX H MMe UX Gonbmee npakrhueckoe 3HaUeHHe MeponpusaTusx. PasyMeeTc#, B 9TOM OTHOmeHUH  MOXHO XeJaTh elle MHOroro. Ho 111 Hac BaxHa cama HaMeTHBmAascs TeHAeHuus. Hama nemeramus py-  CTYNHT B COOTBETCTBYDINX KOMHCCHAX MO PHAY KOHKPeTHHX NPOGHEM AByX/IeTHeH NPOrpaMMH. 3hecs
4 xOTera 6bl OÔpaTHTb Balle BHUMAaHHe TONBKO HA HeKOTOPHIE OTZeJ/bHBIE ACMEKTHI,
10.16 Iospomio cebe HayaTh C COLMAJBHEIX HAYK, KOTOPEIM, Kak H3BECTHO, MHI BCerJa yAels/n, He  chyuañno, mepBOCTeneHHOe sHaueHHe. Pons JIOHECKO saxmouaerca He TOJIBKO B OKa3aHHH NOMOIHK  DPa3BUTHIO COLNaJIbHEX HAayK C y4eTOM pacrymux norpe6HOocTeñ rocyNapcTB-YIeHOB, HO H XONXHa cO-  CTOSTH B y/ydYmeHHHM HayYHOÏ OPraHKWSanHH HesATe]bHOCTH CAMOÏË IOHECKO, B sroñ cassH XOTeNoch 63  BbPA3HTB Halle yIOBJIEeTBOPEHHe pacmHpeHHeM porn H MecTa CONHA/JIbH;X Hayk B mporpamme IOHECKO,  Mar NonnepxHBaeM B NPUHIUIE MNPeAIOKEHHA JOKYMEHTA 19 c/5 OTHOCHTEJIBHO COIHAJBHEX HAYK,
10.17 IenrparbHoñ npoOreMoï B 9TOM ceKTOPe ABJIHETCA, Ha Ham B3TJIAJ, BONPOC O MHpe H pasopy-  xexnH. Hameuexnsre MEPONPHUATHS sachyXHBaoT Hamel o6meñ H nNOnHOoÂ nomnepxKH, Ho Bonpoc B  TOM, MOCTATOYHO JH OTHX MeponpHATHHä, OCOGEHHO Tex, KOTOP»IEe KacaoTc4 pasopyxenns, Mu noi-  HOCTBD NOMIEPXHBAEM COBETCKOe NPENMIOXEHHE, KOTOPOE GsI110 crenano B OOH, kacaomeecs orune-  JIEHHSI ONnpererreHHOro npoieHTa OT 6M1XeTHhIX CPeACTB, NPelyCMOTPEHHBIX Ha BOOpyxXeHHe, H Ha-  NpaBieHUs UX Ha MHPHHIE LeJH, OCOGeHHO B OGNACTH, Bxoxsmue B KOMNeTeHUMOD IOHEC KO, Ilosromy,  Kak yxe GbI10CKa3aHOHaMH, MBI PacIeHHBAeM KaK OCOGeHHO BaXHBIA H CBOEBPEMEHHHR MYHKT 72 B  NOBECTKe JHS H HajJeeMcs, UTO MO STOMy NYHKTy Hama KoH}epeHIHs NPUMeT cooTBeTCTBYDIYD Pe30-  mouno. Paspeunre ynoMsHy Th ONHy HeTajab. Ham kaxeTcs, YTO HaMeudaeTcs TEeHIEHLUS K YMeHbue-  HHI MecTa H porn Ornera huroco®un B Cexperapuare. Her comHenns, YTO nepex aTuM OTzxenom  CTABATCH BaXHble sagaux, B TOM uMcJe npo6reMmsi, KOTOPHE CBASAHEI C BKIANOM IOHECKO 5 yxpen-  JleHnHe MHpa, pasopyxeHnHe H IpyrHe.
10.18 Kak B npomoMm, Tak H ceroxus, GonrapcKOe NpaBUTE/JbCTBO OTHOCHTCS BECBMA NOJOXHTENbT  HO K OCHOBHEIM nporpammam DHECKO B 061acTH ecTrecTrBeHHsX HayK H OOpasOoBaHH4.
10.19 Hama cTpaHa akTHBHO yuacTByeT B OCylieCTBJIeHHH para npoekros JOHECKO Bo Bcex obnacräx,  OTHOCAMUXCH K ee KOMNeTeHLNH, B YacTHOCTH, Mb! OCyIeCTBU/IM PAK HHHNHATHB, CBASAHHBIX C 0al-  KaHCKHM H CJIaBAHCKHM NpoeKTaMH. Hama cTpaHa neraeTr BCe BO3MOXHOE JJ BCEMEPHOIO pacuWpe-  HHS OTHX HaYHHAHHH, Od Bce GONbIIETrO pasBHTHA MeXJUCLHUIIMHAPHOI'O NpHHLHNA IPH paccMOTpeHHH
3THX BONpocos. Kak npumep $i MOry NPHUBECTH ycnemHo npopexeHHsIe KOH epeHIHH MO NPOeKTY 6an-  KaHCKHX H CJIaBSHCKHX KyJbTyP B pasHyHebIXx crpanax Esporsi H Gorree KOHKPETHO - Te YeTHIPE Koude-  PEHIMH, KOTOPpsIE GbIJIA nposegeHsI B BonrapuH: no HOBelmel HCTOPHH H KyJIbTYPHHIM B3AHMOOTHONET  HUM GarkaHCKHX HapooB, MO HEKOTOPHIM BONPOCAM 43H[KOSHAHHA H OCOGEHHO ycnemHo npomezuys  Koud®epexnHio mo cHaBHHCKOÏ KkyJIBType H BarrkaHam.
10.20 B Hamel cTpaHe OueHB aKTHBHO NeHCTBYIOT TaKHE IIEHTPHI H KOMHTETHI, Kak ABroMaTH3HPOBalr  HbIÂ LeHTP VIA HayyHOÀ H TexHnYuecKoñ HHÂopMauHu, Komurer no ruapororux, "“Yesopek H Guochepa ,  Komurer no oxeanorpa®uu, IOHUCHUCT u zp. Mu aKTHBHO COTPyAHHYaeM B CO3JaHUH CYÔPErHOHANbT  HOTO MeXaHH3Ma AIX KOOPINHAIHH MOMCKOB H HOBHX METOJOB B OGHacru o6pasoBanus. Bonee TOrd,  Mbl TOTOBBI NPENOCTABHTB HEO6XOJUMHEe NOMEMeHNA H BCE yCJIOBHUs Asi GynyueH nesaresrbHOOTHK aroro  MexaHWsMa. B nocneguee BpeMsa BCoduu Os11 ycTraHOBIeH MexgyHapoynbH uH®opMauHOoHHBLÀ LeHTP  NO HCTOUHHKAM 6ankaHcko# uecropux (LIBAL) KOTOPHIH HECOMHEHHO chITpaeT MoJe3Hyio POJIB B o6macTH  TyYMaHHTAPHEIX HayK.
10.21 B anpere Trexmero roga Ms OTMeTHIH 20-1eTHe u1nencrsa Hapognoñ Pecny61HKH BoxrapHH B  IOHECKO, 9r0 - nepho HeyKIOHHOTO pacmHpeHH4 cOTPyJHMYeCcTBa Hamel crpans! Kak C CexperapHè”  TOM, TaK H C pacTylMM YHCIIOM FOCYIapcTB-uwieHOB, TOnbKO B nOcHexuNe roms B Hamel CTPAH® Goh  nposezens! Taxe MePONPHATHS, KAK CHMNOSHyM "Oruxa H Gnonorna", cemnnap no mpoGreMaM aHTf  ceäcMmHuecKOro cCTrponrenbCTBA, NO NPOGITEMAM BOZHOTO Gananca B Eppone. 51 xouy saBepHTb Bac, .  aro u Bripexb IDHECKO MOXeT pacCUMTHBATH Ha Hamy aKTHBHYIO MOAAEPXKy. B oTOH cBASH 4 10380  mo ceBe c STO TPHGYHH elle pas MOATBEPAUTH KeJaHWe H TOTOBHOCTH GOITApCKOTO MpaBHTeNbCTEd  NpOBecTH B Hamel crpane MUHECIIOJI-1I, KoTopsIñ HameueH Ha 1978 rox. Ia ororo y Hac nMeeTcä
10.22 Hapsay c oTrHM, rOcHomuH Ilpexcezarens, s XOYy NpHCOeAUHUTH  pus 06 OrpoMHOÀ porn, KOTOPylo HelHe Hrpaer Hama Opraunsa  THIETHETO IDOHJEH HOBEIX GONBMUX ycHeXOB. MH ¢ yBepeHHoc  GeHHO ceñuac, korja Hama Opraunsaunsa BCTymaeT B CBOe YeTBepTroe NecsiTHNeTHe, H Ham xouer  BHIPA3HTH HalleXAy, YTO STO OyleT nephon nog5ema B PasBHTHH O06pas3oOBaHus Hay H KyJnbT ot  aceñ nmaHeTe, NMEPHOJ HOBLIX H Pemalomux MaroOB B yKPEeNJeHHH MHpa BO em MHpe. Fine ss  BHHMAHHE.  CH K TeM, KTO MO MeHS rOBO-  LHS H MOXeJlIAaTL el HakaHyHe ee TPHIUa-  TBID CMOTPHM B 6yaymee WHECKO, oco-
(10.1) Mme ZAKHARIEVA (Bulgarie). - (Traduit de russe.)  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale  restera un événement exceptionnel dans l'histoire de l'Unesco. C'est en effet la première session de la  Conférence générale qui se tient sur un territoire africain libre et indépendant, Au nom de la délégation  bulgare, je tiens à remercier sincèrement le gouvernement du Kenya, qui a assumé la lourde tâche  d'organiser une réunion aussi importante et d'une telle complexité. Je profite de cette occasion pour  exprimer notre profond respect au peuple kényen, dont nous avons apprécié l'hospitalité dès le premier  moment de notre séjour sur cette belle terre kényenne,
(10.2) Monsieur le Président, je suis heureuse de m'associer à tous ceux qui vous ont déjà félicité de  votre élection à votre haute et lourde charge, et je vous souhaite plein succès dans l'accomplissement de  votre tâche aussi bien ici, à Nairobi, que durant toute la durée de votre mandat de deux ans. Permettez-  moi aussi de dire combien nous avons apprécié le travail de Mme Magda Joboru qui a dirigé avec succès  la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale et a contribué à son succès. Durant les trente années  d'existence de l'Unesco, Madame Joboru a été la première et jusqu'ici la seule femme qui ait été élue à  ce poste élevé.
(10.3) Monsieur le Président, ces dernières années nous avons tous été témoins d'une série d'importants  événements dans la vie internationale. Tous les peuples ont accueilli avec joie la victoire de l'héroïque  peuple vietnamien et sa réunification. Nous suivons avec une sympathie sincère les efforts de la Répu-  blique socialiste du Viêt-nam tendant à éliminer les séquelles de la guerre sur son territoire martyrisé,  et à appliquer des mesures socio-économiques et culturelles progressistes. Nous suivons avec une égale  sympathie les efforts des peuples du Laos et du Cambodge, qui ont entrepris l'édification d'une vie nou-  velle, d'une vie libre. Il y a à peine plus d'un an que s'est achevée à Helsinki la Conférence sur la sécu-  rité et la coopération en Europe. Cette conférence a été une indiscutable victoire de la raison et de la  bonne volonté, ainsi que de tous ceux qui travaillent activement pour la détente. Nous sommes persuadés  que l'esprit d'Helsinki, l'esprit de la détente, ne cessera de se renforcer et créera les conditions voulues  pour le renforcement de la paix et de la sécurité non seulement en Europe mais aussi dans le monde  entier, et qu'il contribuera à une meilleur compréhension et à une coopération mutuellement avantageuse  entre les pays à régimes politiques et sociaux différents.
(10.4) Ce que je viens de dire prouve que le gouvernement de la République populaire de Bulgarie a  apprécié à sa juste valeur la contribution de l'Unesco à l'établissement d'un climat favorable au bon dérou-  lement de la Conférence d'Helsinki, et qu'il se félicite de toutes les mesures concrètes prévues dans le  projet de programme de l'Unesco pour faire suite aux recommandations contenues dans l'Acte final  d'Helsinki qui ont directement ou indirectement trait aux activités de notre Organisation.
(10.5) Nous constatons avec une profonde satisfaction qu'ici, en Afrique, l'écroulement du système  colonialiste a débouché sur de nouvelles et éclatantes victoires et de profondes mutations sociales. Le  soleil de la liberté s'est levé sur le Mozambique et 1'Angola. Nous saluons avec une joie particulière  l'entrée de ces pays, désormais indépendants, au sein de notre Organisation. Je profite de cette occasion  pour féliciter aussi les autres pays qui sont devenus dernièrement membres de notre Organisation.  L'Unesco compte désormais 141 Etats membres. Cela témoigne bien de l'autorité accrue de notre Organi-  sation et du fait qu'elle se conforme de plus en plus au principe de l'universalité.
(10.6) Compte tenu de cette évolution positive de la situation internationale, nous ne pouvons pas ne pas  manifester notre profonde inquiétude devant les tragiques événements du Proche-Orient : Israël continue  d'occuper des terres arabes, et les résolutions du Conseil de sécurité de l'ONU et de l'Unesco restent  lettre morte. Ici mêmé, sur la terre africaine, certains peuples n'ont pas encore acquis leur indépendance,  et dans la partie méridionale du continent existent des Etats où, malheureusement, les idées anti-  humanitaires de racisme et d'apartheid sont encore érigées en politique gouvernementale, Nous sommes  profondément inquiets aussi des violations flagrantes et massives des droits de l'homme au Chili et en  Corée du Sud,
(10.7) Le gouvernement de la République populaire de Bulgarie considère que la lutte pour la paix et le  désarmement est intimement liée à la lutte contre le néocolonialisme, le racisme, la discrimination  raciale et l'apartheid. Aussi regrettons-nous que la décision prise à la dix-huitième session de la Confé -  rence générale concernant l'élaboration d'une Déclaration universelle sur la race et les préjugés raciaux  n'ait pas encore été pleinement mise en oeuvre. J'exprime l'espoir que notre Conférence examinera une  fois de plus cette question et que le Directeur général prendra les dispositions voulues pour mener cette  affaire à bonne fin.
(10,8) Monsieur le Président, je profite de cette occasion pour constater que, dans l'ensemble, un |  processus positif a été amorcé en vue de modifier la structure et le travail du Secrétariat, processus qui  témoigne d'un effort d'économie et du désir d'appliquer des méthodes de travail plus efficaces. A cet  égard, nous devons souligner le rôle actif joué par le Directeur général de I linesco lui-même, De M'Bow  et dire combien nous apprécions l'esprit d'initiative et l'opiniâtreté dont il fait preuve en la matière.
(10.9) Monsieur le Président, nous sommes confrontés à une série de problèmes importants. De la façon  dont nous saurons les résoudre dépendra l'activité future de l'Unesco, Mais lorsque nous a  cette activité future, une caractéristique particuliere de la dix-neuvième session de notre Coniérence
15 nous saute aussitôt aux yeux : pour la première fois, après de sérieux préparatifs, nous allons prendre  des décisions qui concernent non seulement le programme biennal, mais aussi une période plus longue  de six années. L'adoption du document 19 C/4 sera un événement qui témoignera de la maturité accrie : ; crue  notre Organisation, laquelle aura à cet égard montré la voie au sein du système des Nations Unies de
(10.10) Dans l'ensemble, nous portons un jugement positif sur le contenu du plan sexennal, L'énorme  travail collectif et individuel qu'il a exigé ainsi que la portée et le caractère pratique de ce plan so  précédent dans l'histoire de la coopération internationale relative aux questions relevant de la compétence  de l'Unesco. Bon nombre de parties du plan, par exemple la plupart des paragraphes qui concernent la ;  paix, l'homme, la condition de la femme, les sciences sociales, l'éducation, etc., méritent tous les  éloges. A côté de cela, bien entendu, on trouve des sections qui demandent à être clarifiées et complétées  Nous exprimons l'espoir que ce sera fait en temps opportun et avec compétence, i  nt sang
(10.11) Je tiens à souligner à ce propos qu'à notre avis, la nature du Plan à moyen terme est claire et  nette : c'est la concrétisation d'une orientation intellectuelle élaborée en commun et tenant dûment compte  des tâches et des objectifs fondamentaux de l'Unesco ; nous y voyons le document sur lequel le Secrétariat  devra se fonder lors de l'élaboration des projets et programmes opérationnels concrets que la Conférence  générale devra approuver à chacune de ses sessions ultérieures.
(10.12) Je voudrais à ce propos, M. le Président, souligner aussi l'importance décisive des décisions  de la Conférence générale relatives à un élément aussi fondamental de l'activité de notre Organisation  qu'est le budget. Etant donné la crise économique et monétaire qui secoue actuellement le monde capita-  liste, les difficultés auxquelles se heurtent les organisations internationales en général et l'Unesco en  particulier sont compréhensibles. Mais c'est justement pour cela qu'il faudrait instaurer au sein de  l'Organisation une discipline financière plus rigoureuse que jamais, Nous avons insisté plus d'une fois  sur la nécessité d'une politique rationnelle d'économies budgétaires et, comme je l'ai déjà dit, nous  prenons note des efforts sérieux faits par le Directeur général dans ce sens, Mais aujourd'hui, plus que  jamais, nous tenons à éviter tout malentendu : les pays socialistes et les pays en développement ne  peuvent pas être tenus pour responsables des pertes matérielles dues aux difficultés et à l'économie  chancelante de certains Etats membres.
(10.13) D'un autre côté, nous constatons avec perplexité que c'est justement dans ces circonstances que  certains Etats contreviennent à la discipline financière élémentaire que chaque Etat membre est tenu de  respecter et ne versent pas leurs contributions. Il est encore plus étonnant que cela s'accompagne, d'une  part, de déclarations publiques selon lesquelles ces Etats ne sont pas d'accord avec certaines décisions de  la Conférence générale, et d'autre part, d'une campagne hostile menée par les organes de grande infor-  mation. Une question vient naturellement à l'esprit : une telle conduite est-elle un privilège réservé à  certains Etats, et est-elle tolérable ? Il est bon de rappeler que les pays socialistes, par exemple, ont  eu plus d'une fois de bonnes raisons d'être mécontents de certaines décisions politiques de la Conférence  générale. Mais, autant que je sache, il n'est jamais arrivé jusqu'ici qu'un pays socialiste ne verse pas  sa contribution parce qu'il n'était pas d'accord avec telle ou telle décision de l'Organisation. Il n'est pas  difficile d'imaginer combien délicate serait la situation de notre Organisation si une telle attitude anti-  constitutionnelle devenait la règle.
(10.14) Au cours de la présente Conférence, nous sommes appelés à résoudre d'importants problèmes de  stratégie. L'un d'eux est le rôle de l'Unesco dans la lutte pour l'instauration du nouvel ordre économique  international. Nous sommes conscients de l'urgence et de l'importance de cette question, nous en com-  prenons toute la complexité, et nous nous félicitons à cette occasion du travail mené pour préciser la place  de l'Unesco dans le système des Nations Unies à l'occasion de cette vaste entreprise d'instauration d'un  nouvel ordre économique. Nous sommes également persuadés du bien-fondé du souci, que manifestent les  documents sur cette question, de lier étroitement l'entreprise en cause à la structure sociale et au régime  des Etats. A notre avis, il est indispensable de définir d'une façon plus concrète encore la contribution  que l'Unesco peut apporter dans ce domaine. En ce qui nous concerne, je ne peux qu'affirmer que le gou-  vernement bulgare est prêt à apporter son concours à la mise en place des relations internationales plus  équitables dont la nécessité se fait sentir depuis longtemps.
(10.15) Le nouveau programme de l'Organisation pour 1977-1978 qui fait l'objet du document 19 G/5,  constitue un important pas en avant dans l'amélioration de la planification biennale. Ce document se carac-  térise par une tendance manifeste à la concentration des efforts et des ressources du Secrétariat sur des  activités plus importantes et de nature plus pratique. Certes, il reste encore beaucoup à faire dans ce  domaine, mais ce qui nous importe, c'est la tendance qui se fait ainsi jour. Notre délégation interviendra  au sein des commissions compétentes sur une série de problèmes concrets qui se posent dans le cadre du  programme biennal. Mais je voudrais aujourd'hui appeler votre attention sur quelques points précis.
(10.16) Je commencerai par les sciences sociales auxquelles, chacun le sait, nous avons toujours g  accordé, et pour cause, une importance essentielle. Le role de 1'Unesco consiste non seulement à aider  au développement des sciences sociales eu égard aux besoins croissants des Etats membres, mais égale-  ment à améliorer l'organisation scientifique de ses propres activités, À cet égard, nous sommes heureux  d'exprimer notre satisfaction devant l'importance croissante du rôle et de la place des sciences sociales  dans le programme de l'Unesco, Nous appuyons pour l'essentiel les propositions contenues dans le  document 19 C/5 concernant les sciences sociales.
(10.17) Dans ce secteur, le problème central est, à notre avis, celui de la paix et du désarmement, Les  mesures proposées méritent notre adhésion pleine et entière. Mais la question est de savoir si ces  mesures, surtout celles qui concernent le désarmement, sont suffisantes. Nous appuyons pleinement ! |  proposition soviétique faite aux Nations Unies et qui concerne l'affectation à des fins pacifiques, en =.  culier dans les domaines de la compétence de l'Unesco, d'un pourcentage déterminé des ressources 5 &  taires consacrées aux armements. Aussi considérons-nous - nous l'avons déjà dit - comme particulière-  a  ment important et opportun le point 72 de l'ordre du jour et nous espérons qu'à ce sujet notre (RE  adoptera une résolution appropriée. Permettez-moi de faire état d'un détail. Il nous semble sc en  i tendance à réduire la place et le rôle de la Division de la philosophie au sein du Secrétariat. Or, i  hors de doute que des tâches importantes incombent à cette Division, notamment l'étude des problèm  posés par la contribution de l'Unesco au renforcement de la paix, au désarmement, etc.
(10.18) Comme par le passé, le gouvernement bul gare porte une appréciati programmes de l'Unesco dans le domaine des scie i SE I  neces exactes et naturelles et dans celui de l'éducation.
(10.19) Notre pays prend une part active à l'exécution d'  domaines relevant de la compétence de celle-ci. En particulier, nous avons pris une série d' en ce qui concerne les projets balkaniques et slaves, Notre pays fait tout son maximum ces entreprises et pour donner un caractère plus nettement  questions en cause. À titre d'exemple, je peux citer les conférences tenues avec succès dans divers pays d'Europe au titre du projet relatif aux cultures balkaniques et slaves, et, en particulier quatre ne rences qui ont eu lieu en Bulgarie : sur l'histoire contemporaine et les interactions culturelles des peuples balkaniques, sur certaines questions linguistiques, et sur la culture slave dans le i A sB :  conférence a été particulièrement réussie. a degare  une série de projets de l'Unesco dans tous les  initiatives
2 possible pour développer au  interdisciplinaire à l'étude des
(10.20) Dans notre pays fonctionnent des centres et comités tels que le Centre automatisé d' scientifique et technique, le Comité pour l'hydrologie, le Comité pour  Comité pour l'océanographie, pour l'UNISIST, et d'autres encore, Nous contribuons activement à la créa-  tion d'un mécanisme sous-régional de coordination des recherches relatives aux nouvelles méthodes d'en- seignement, De surcroît, nous sommes prêts à fournir les locaux et toutes les facilités nécessaires pour cela. Dernièrement a été établi à Sofia le Centre international d'information sur les sources de l'histoire  des Balkans (CIBAL), qui ne manquera pas de jouer un rôle utile dans le domaine des sciences humaines.
2 information  l'homme et la biosphere", le
(10.21) En avril dernier, nous avons célébré le vingtième anniversaire de l'admission de la République  populaire de Bulgarie à l'Unesco. Cette période aura été marquée par un constant resserrement de la  coopération de notre pays aussi bien avec le Secrétariat qu'avec un nombre de plus en plus grand d'Etats  membres. Ces dernières années, nous avons organisé dans notre pays des réunions telles que le colloque  sur le thème ‘Ethique et biologie et des séminaires sur les constructions antisismiques et sur le bilan  hydrique de l'Europe. Je tiens à vous assurer que l'Unesco pourra compter à l'avenir sur un soutien actif  de notre part. Je me permets de réaffirmer à cet égard que le gouvernement bulgare accepterait volontiers  d'organiser sur son territoire la conférence MINESPOL II qui est prévue pour 1978 ; nous disposons pour  cela de l'infrastructure nécessaire. Nous sommes prêts également à prendre à notre charge les dépenses  budgétaires supplémentaires qu'entraMerait l'organisation de MINESPOL II hors Siège.
(10.22) Cela dit, Monsieur le Président, je tiens à m'associer à ceux qui ont souligné avant moi le rôle  immense que joue actuellement notre Organisation, et à lui souhaiter, à la veille de son trentième anni-  versaire, de nouveaux et éclatants succès, Nous envisageons avec confiance l'avenir de l'Unesco, surtout  maintenant qu'elle aborde la quatrième décennie de son existence. Et nous exprimons l'espoir que ce sera  une période d'essor et d'expansion de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture sur toute notre planète,  une période de progrès nouveaux et décisifs dans le renforcement de la paix mondiale. Merci, Monsieur  le Président.
11. Le PRESIDENT. -  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Bulgarie. Je donne maintenant la parole au brigadier  Barnabas Kili, ministre de l'éducation, président de la Commission nationale et chef de la délé-  gation de l'Ouganda.
12.1 Brigadier KILI (Uganda):  I wish to associate myself with those delegates who have spoken before me in expressing on  behalf of my Government, my delegation and myself, our profound sympathies with the people of  Indonesia for the disaster which occurred in that country two days ago.
12.2 Mr. President, it gives me great pleasure to congratulate you heartily on your well-deserved  election as President of the nineteenth session of Unesco's General Conference, Iwish, Mr, President,  to convey greetings and best wishes from His Excellency, the President, the Government and people  of the Republic of Uganda to you and, through you, to all the distinguished delegates here present.  Allow me to join in the chorus of other delegates in expressing our gratitude and appreciation to  the President, the Government and people of Kenya for their warm hospitality extended to us all  in this beautiful capital of our sister State. We would also like to thank His Excellency, the Presi-  dent of Kenya, for his inspiring opening address which directed the Conference's attention to  Unesco's role in fostering effective international co-operation. Mr, President, I should like also  to express, at the outset, our deepest condolences for the passing away of Mr, ‘René Maheu, We  wish to put on record our all-time grateful appreciation of the devoted services which he rendered  to the world community during his twelve years of office as Director-General of Unesco. My dele-  gation endorses the view abundantly expressed on this platform that this is an important occasion  for Unesco, in that the General Conference is being heid on African soil for the first time, There  are, incidentally, other record scores, too. It will be recalled that this is the second time the  General Conference has been presided over by an African, It is particularly gratifying to us from  Uganda to have the product of Makerere University in your distinguished personality as the first  East African to take this office. Of equal significance is the coincidence that has brought the first  African Director-General of Unesco to stand on the soil of mother Africa and to draw inspiration  therefrom in presenting the Organization's first Draft Medium -Term Plan and his first Draft Pro-  gramme and Budget. My delegation gives unreserved congratulations to Mr. fo Mr ;  M'Bow personally on proving so deserving of appointment to the highest office of the Organiza s  Secretariat, We are delighted to note, that Nairobi University has duly recognized his outstan ing  Services and scholarship by conferring upon him the degree of Doctor of Literature. We ns =  assure him of Uganda's unqualified support and co-operation in all his endeavours to carry ou  executive responsibilities and his international mission, I should also like to take this sr Ys  Mr, President, of concluding my introductory remarks by extending our warm welcome to ; e ;  newly-admitted Member States of Surinam, Papua New Guinea, Mozambique, Grenada and Angola.
15 It is a source of gratification to note that their admission has brought strength and solidarity to 5  total of now 141 Member States representing every major cultural and geographical area of the  world,
12.3 Whatever our differences may be in this assembly, we have come together to deliberate on  the fundamental issues which threaten world order and international justice. These issues are  reflected in the extremely timely and significant statement offered by the Director-General in the  publication "Moving Towards Change" and in the Draft Medium-Term Plan. While it is true that  the resources available to Unesco for dealing with these world issues and problems defined in  these documents are extremely limited, the moral force that they represent and the consequent  impact of Unesco's programme are very great indeed. On this Thirtieth Anniversary of Unesco,  we wish to pay tribute not only to the actual material assistance given by Unesco in the areas of  education, science, culture and communication, but also to the ideals and policies that this inter-  national Organization has adopted, and which its actual programmes represent, Mr, President  we commend the Director-General for the sound procedure he adopted in assessing current world  problems by appointing a Panel of Counsellors drawn from all the world's major regions. We ex.  press our satisfaction with the democratic consultations which led to the identification of the major  priority objectives for the Draft Programme and Budget of the current biennium, If we may be  allowed, Mr. President, to single out a few of these major problems, we have the following brief  comments to make.
12.4 My delegation is fully conscious of the overriding concern of Unesco with regard to the exten-  sive violations of human rights around the world. We share this concern, It would appear to us,  however, that we have tended to gloss over the real causes of these violations, We find it difficult  for instance, to believe that the excessive violation of human rights in some parts of the world pas  no immediate or remote cause in external forces. In this respect, we fully subscribe to the  Director-General's critical observations in paragraphs 29, 30, 31 and 32 of his introduction to  document 19 C/4. It seems to us, Mr. President, that a positive approach to the observance of  human rights should promote not only knowledge of those rights but also opportunities for the reali-  zation of the said rights. Having given our moral and material support to the continuation of the  United Nations system in general, and to Unesco in particular, we have built our educational policy  in Uganda on the specific recognition and acceptance of the Human Rights Convention, Similarly,  we are processing our ratification of the conventions and recommendations in education initiated  by Unesco. It is our wish that the young generation should grow up with full knowledge of their  rights under these conventions. In accordance with our policy, we are, therefore, committed to  providing opportunity of access to education to all our people. Attempts to block or curtail Unesco's  action in ensuring our young people equality of opportunity for access to education will onlyaggravate  our present condition. Wel.ope those countries that have achieved greater material progress through  the exploitation of our natural resources will have the good sense to accept the moral responsibility  of assisting the so-called Third World to develop unhampered by selfish motives, After all, our  development in turn enhances their development.
12.5 We further endorse the Director-General's interpretation of development in paragraph 71 of  document 19 C/4 as embracing "a global notion, considered in a multidimensional context, eco-  nomic as well as social, scientific, technological and cultural", We find this view refreshing as  it impinges on our search for a "quality of life' that is no longer to be measured in terms of gross  national product or material possessions. It represents a sound philosophical outlook which may  bring about mutual respect and appreciation among individuals and societies, be they rural, urban,  developed or developing. Indeed, we support the view expressed at the end of paragraph 72 of the  same document: "Growth has no meaning unless it contributes to the fulfilment of individuals and  of the community, unless it offers greater chances to be human and to create''. It is in finding  answers to our own endogenous development problems individually and collectively that we shall  attain "happiness', by which we mean: "satisfaction after success in a full, honest effort".
12,6 Judging by the current world-wide upheaval of fluctuating currency values, unemployment  and inflation, we cannot but subscribe to the call for a new international economic order, Weagree  entirely with the Director-General that this new international order should be based on values of  social equity, equality, liberty, solidarity and justice. The developed world has, for a long time,  played the role of big brother to the developing world in giving international aid, It is now abun-  dantly clear that such aid has proved ineffective in solving Third World economic problems because  it is based on a false concept of justice which emphasizes the interest of the donor in this case the  stronger. Justice demands that the monetary returns for all primary products from developing  countries be tipped in favour of the primary producers and owners of raw materials, The price:  indexing system which grossly favours the developed countries has, no doubt, widened the gap be-  tween the developed and the least-developed countries in particular, The profitsandunfair advantage  thus gained must be seen as totally unwholesome, We hope our friends in the developed world will  fathom the philosophical depth of a new international economic and social order in the disturbed  waters where we all either swim or sink together.
12.7 In a number of areas, the Ugandan Government has made considerable progress towards the  realization of major objectives as identified by the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies.  Last year, International Women's Year had a tremendous response within Uganda. Women's  groups were consolidated and their efforts supported by Government, a national women's organt=  zation with its secretariat was established and the increase in the number of women employed in
624      all areas of government service was very significant, The appointment of w i 5 3 en ; : ; $ omen to  within various ministries was a reflection of deliberate Government policy to raise es  women in Uganda, The women's organization today constitutes the most i  grassroots development of our rural districts, progressiveiforee foriihe
12.8 In the areas of basic education and educational reform, we were h i  to host the Unesco International Technical Meeting on Education ee rent This meeting was attended by 28 Member States from Africa, the Middle East and the sub-c $ ;  of Asia, This significant meeting was convened to evaluate the achievements of the eus  Pilot Project established in Uganda by a decision taken at the fourteenth session of Unesco's Gene  ral Conference, His Excellency, the President of Uganda, in opening the meeting, launched anew  phase in Uganda's policy called "Education Integrated into Rural Development" when he directed  that the project be extended to cover all parts of the country. Today, we have gone beyond the  experimental stage, and approaches towards the reform of basic education for children youth and  adults that are reflected in the objectives and strategies of the programme have been adopted as  Uganda's basic policy towards the education of its entire population, My delegation is, therefore  pleased to report that the action taken at the fourteenth session of the General Conference has ’  proved to be extremely effective in terms of the impact on our country, and we understand that the  major aspects of this project have been adopted in other countries as well, It is with a certain mea-  sure of pride that we reflect on our contribution to the advance of a form of education more relevant  and appropriate to the needs of the masses of people throughout the Third World,
12.9 Today, in the industrialized countries, the larger part of investment for the development of  science and technology is in the area of nuclear technology. The vast sums of money currently  spent on research on nuclear technology and production of sophisticated weapons indicates insecurity  in the world society. The financial and human resources that are presently directed to this destruc-  tive purpose should be redirected towards the advancement of technologies that can alleviate the  undernourishment, illiteracy and poverty from which the majority of the world's population suffers,  This would be a meaningful way in which a new economic and social order could become a reality.  In Uganda, as in other nations in Africa, Asia and South America, the need for the spread of sci-  entific thinking and the development of appropriate technologies remains a vital requirement for  our development, We are very pleased to report that, since the first session of the General Con-  ference, assistance from Unesco tomy country inthe establishment of teacher-training programmes  for technical and commercial teachers has facilitated the introduction of technical/vocational sub-  jects, in nearly all our secondary schools, Much more development along these lines, however,  is needed if the spread of relevant technical skills and knowledge is to become universal, Whatis  required is not only the transfer of expertise, but also the commitment towards research and de-  velopment of what has been termed "intermediate technology".
12,10 Mr. President, my delegation and I wish to acknowledge with gratitude the attention given  to our requests for assistance presented at the last biennium, We are very much aware that the  translation of policies into actual programmes in basic education, science and technology is a  major undertaking involving changes in curriculum, planning and administration, I am pleased to  report that, on my instructions, we are establishing a National Education Policy Review, inwhich  the recommendations of the very influential report on education, "Learning To Be'', will be care-  fully studied in terms of the needs for educational renovation in Uganda. The world is going  through a most difficult period in international relations, in which political considerations render  ineffective bilateral assistance to many countries of the Third World, It is one of the characteris-  ties of Unesco that its assistance is truly international, and should not directly or indirectly be  influenced by the political relations between Member States. It is a great tribute to Unesco, as  to other agencies in the United Nations system, that it is able to provide continued support at a  time of great need,
12.11 We hope that distinguished delegates here may have the opportunity of enjoying the very  talented traditional dance groups of Uganda by visiting, during weekends, our magnificent national  parks where groups frequently entertain guests, and seeing for themselves the rich cultural and  natural heritage with which Uganda is blest.
12,12 In the communication sector, Uganda recognizes the important role that communication  media can play in the development of our country. The Government believes that, by careful  selection of broadcast programmes and by the use of other government information services,  mass communication systems can be a powerful weapon in our declared war for economie inde-  pendence, Uganda attaches great importance to the educational role that the radio, televisionand  newspapers can play in national development. The government policy with regard to the mass  media is that maximum programme emphasis should be on items directly related to the develop-  ment needs of the country. Through broadcasts directly to schools and colleges, and through pro-  grammes designed to interest and educate the rural population, scientific and cultural topics are  presented, In the Ministry of Education, there is a special unit which prepares radio and televi-  Sion programmes to enrich and supplement programmes for teachers in primary schools, teacher-  training colleges and secondary schools.
12.13 In the field of libraries, archives and documentation, efforts are being made towards co-  ordination aimed at integrated and accelerated development. This is in conformity with the Unesco
15   concept of National Information Systems (NATIS). Before long, we shall have a national body re  sponsible for the implementation of the NATIS objectives. We believe that a move in this directio  will go a long way towards utilizing resources to the maximum and consolidating our achievements  in this field. Because our Government realizes the importance of libraries, a School of Trans  ship was established, with assistance from Unesco, at Makerere University. ‘ This school trains ;  librarians for schools and public libraries throughout East Africa,
12.14 In conclusion, Mr, President, my delegation and I wish once again to express our deep  appreciation for the excellent arrangements for the Conference and the hard work that has gone  into the preparation of its detailed programme. It is our hope that the deliberations of this nine.  teenth session will go a long way towards bringing about a new economic and social order, Thank  you, Mr, President.  (M. Movoambe (Zaïre) prend la présidence)
13. Le PRESIDENT. -  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de l'Ouganda. Je donne maintenant la parole à  S. Exc. M. Luigi Lonfernini, député à l'instruction publique et à la culture, chef de la délégation  de Saint-Marin.
14.1 M. LONFERNINI (Saint-Marin). -  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, honorables délégués, Mesdames et  Messieurs, je suis particulièrement heureux et honoré de pouvoir me faire l'interprète des sen-  timents d'appréciation et de satisfaction de mon gouvernement et de mon peuple pour avoir été,  il y a maintenant deux ans, admis dans la grande famille de l'Unesco, ce qui me donne aujourd'hui  l'occasion de prendre pour la première fois la parole à la tribune de la Conférence générale, en  tant que chef de la délégation d'un Etat membre de plein droit de l'Organisation.
14.2 A ce titre, je désire, Monsieur le Président, tout d'abord m'associer aux éminents délégués  qui m'ont précédé au cours de ce débat pour vous féliciter de votre élection à la présidence de  cette dix-neuvième session qui s'annonce particulièrement importante non seulement parce qu'elle  coïncide avec le trentième anniversaire de la fondation de l'Organisation (anniversaire que, soit  dit en passant, mon pays a célébré par l'émission d'une série de timbres poste), mais aussi  parce qu'elle se déroule pour la première fois en terre africaine et parce qu'elle est appelée à  prendre des décisions qui pourraient marquer une étape décisive pour son évolution future, En ce  qui concerne notre agréable séjour en terre africaine, permettez-moi de vous dire, Monsieur le  Président, combien nous avons apprécié l'accueil et l'hospitalité de votre peuple et combien nous  sommes heureux de nous trouver dans la belle capitale d'un pays qui mérite toute notre estime et  auquel nous exprimons nos voeux les plus sincères de prospérité et de bonheur.
14.3 Je viens de vous dire que mon pays, quoique pouvant se targuer d'être la plus ancienne des  républiques, ayant survécu à tous les bouleversements de l'histoire, ne fait partie de l'Unesco que  depuis deux ans, même s'il n'a jamais manqué de suivre avec la plus grande attention ses activités  passées. Il s'agit pour nous maintenant, après les premiers pas et la fin de la période communé-  ment appelée de rôdage ou d'apprentissage, de passer à la phase de participation active à la vie  de l'Organisation.
14.4 Bien sûr, il n'est pas question pour un petit pays comme Saint-Marin d'envisager une con-  tribution qui revête beaucoup plus qu'un aspect essentiellement moral : le potentiel économique et  les ressources et instruments matériels et humains, forcément très limités, dont il dispose ne  lui laissent en effet d'autre choix que de sélectionner avec soin et de doser de la manière la plus  appropriée les voies et les moyens de sa participation. Cela ne signifie cependant pas, tant s'en  faut, que la République de Saint-Marin se désintéressera des problèmes concrets, complexes et  lourds de conséquences que cette Conférence générale est appelée à examiner et à résoudre.
14.5 Il faut savoir en effet que les objectifs et les principes dont s'inspire l'Acte constitutif de  l'Unesco font depuis toujours partie du patrimoine politique, social et culturel de mon pays. Il  suffira, pour s'en rendre compte, de songer un instant à notre longue tradition d'indépendance et  de liberté, au contexte politique et culturel dans lequel s'est développée et consolidée notre sou-  veraineté à travers les siècles, à la politique de neutralité active dans laquelle nous nous sommes  résolument engagés pour favoriser la fraternité, la compréhension et la collaboration sur le plan  international, ainsi qu'aux vicissitudes de notre longue histoire, qui est peu connue mais qui n'en  est pas pour autant moins riche de leçons encore valables à l'heure actuelle.
14.6 Je crois donc pouvoir réaffirmer, en d'autres termes, que la présence de Saint-Marin à  l'Unesco répond parfaitement à la réalité d'un petit pays dans lequel la participation populaire 2  la gestion de la chose publique et constante, une réalité qui est le fruit d'une originalité culturelle  qui lui a permis, au cours des siècles, de préserver les aspects et prérogatives les plus caracté-  ristiques qui 1'ont toujours distingué des régions voisines.
14.7 Ceci est d'autant plus significatif qu'aujourd'hui, contrairement à hier, on a tendance à A  affirmer que toute expression de vie personnelle ou de groupe, tout ce qui fait s'épanouir] hom 3  tous les hommes, dans leur pleine autonomie, tout cela est culture, et que la culture est aussi
626      élaboration autonome et critique, recherche, problématique, tension vers  une simple réédition du présent mais qui contienne en soi des ferments et  vie plus humaine et plus juste.  un futur qui ne soit pas  des possibilités d'une .
14,8 Une culture qui ignore l'homme et ses problèmes ne peut être qu'aliénation et exploitation  ce qui signifie que sur le plan politique, il faut croire à l'action créatrice de la base, des masses  populaires, seules en mesure de substituer la liberté aux conditionnements, de déventr les prota-  gonistes de leur destinée et de leur histoire, et d'autogérer leurs décisions.
14.9 Il existe donc un rapport précis entre la vie culturelle et la vie politique d'une nation, même  si elles ne coincident pas. La République de Saint-Marin, dans la réalité politique et culturelle qui  lui est propre, a toujours su tenir compte de ces deux concepts en maintenant et en consolidant de  façon autonome et libre son indépendance politique, qui est aussi le fruit de son autonomie cultu-  relle et sociale.
14.10 La grande leçon, qu'il me soit permis de l'affirmer ici, Monsieur le Président, sur cette  terre d'Afrique, en présence des représentants des pays nouvellement libérés, nous est justement  venue de ces derniers : c'est à ceux-ci, en effet, que sont dues la profonde transformation du  concept de culture et la proposition de nouvelles valeurs communautaires vers lesquelles doit  s'orienter la recherche, dans la perspective d'un avenir différent du présent, un présent dont nous  sommes tous insatisfaits, à un titre ou à un autre.
14,11 D'où la nécessité de ce nouvel ordre économique international dont l'Unesco doit se faire  également promoteur et sans lequel il ne sera jamais possible de réaliser une paix et une coopé-  ration véritables entre les peuples, sans lequel les pays pauvres resteront toujours pauvres et  l'accès à la culture continuera à privilégier les nations les plus riches.
14,12 Les mouvements d'indépendance nationale ont été avant tout de nouveaux comportements  culturels qui ont stimulé dans d'autres régions - parmi lesquelles l'Europe - des prises de cons-  cience qui n'ont pas toujours été faciles, immédiates, indolores. Nous sommes en particulier  fort attentifs à certaines tendances qui se sont manifestées dans les pays en voie de développement,  notamment dans ceux d'Afrique, et que nous désirons souligner ici non pas pour qu'elles soient  imitées de façon simpliste, mais parce qu'elles démontrent précisément qu'il est possible de  penser d'une manière différente de celle que nos anciennes classifications mentales nous incul-  quaient et qu'il est possible de croire à un homme nouveau.
14,13 La culture contemporaine ne peut ignorer cette nouvelle histoire et cette nouvelle culture  que les pays nouvellement libérés sont en train de vivre et d'écrire. Il s'agit de courants culturels  profondément enracinés dans les réalités, dans la vie des groupes, dans leurs traditions, dans  leurs structures sociales, dans leurs croyances religieuses.
14,14 Il est possible d'utiliser l'énorme richesse de ces particularités locales dans le cadre d'un  discours national qui respecte le pluralisme et les minorités et favorise l'unité, conçue non  comme nivellement par le bas mais comme réalisation et valorisation communes d'expériences  populaires authentiquement vécues, L'une des tâches essentielles de l'Unesco devrait être juste-  ment de stimuler concrètement, à l'échelon universel qui la caractérise, une prise de conscience  de ce genre,
14,15 Il est en effet nécessaire, à notre avis, que l'Unesco offre sa contribution fondamentale à  la lutte contre le colonialisme et le racisme, et donc à la paix, au développement et à la coopéra-  tion internationale, parce qu'une véritable paix et le développement - dans la pleine acception du  terme - ne seront jamais réalisés si chaque peuple n'est pas libéré de toutes les formes de colo-  nialisme (même culturel) et si le racisme et les préjugés raciaux ne sont pas radicalement  extirpés de la communauté mondiale, où l'apartheid et la ségrégation raciale ne doivent plus  trouver place.
14.16 Nous sommes en plein accord avec ceux qui affirment qu'il ne suffit pas de dénoncer les  doctrines biologiques erronées sur lesquelles se base le racisme. Les modifications essentielles  de la structure sociale susceptibles de favoriser l'élimination des préjugés raciaux exigent surtout  des interventions d'ordre politique. Seules la participation aux décisions à tous les niveaux, la  suppression absolue de toutes les discriminations de nature économique fondées sur l'origine  raciale, l'accession garantie et généralisée à toutes les structures éducatives et sociales, ainsi  que la pleine participation des masses au pouvoir politique, pourront assurer l'élimination défi-  nitive des situations dans lesquelles le racisme et les préjugés raciaux plongent leurs racines et  se développent.  l'Unesco ne maintient pas ce carac-
1417 Ces objectifs, cependant, ne sauraient être réalisés si C ;  tions internationales, en particulier tère d'universalité qui devrait être celui de toutes les organisa ; Si  l'Organisation des Nations Unies et ses institutions spécialisées. L'efficacité et la validité de  l'action de l'Unesco seraient en effet gravement compromises si cette action n'était pas le gen  et la synthèse de toutes les réalités culturelles existant dans le monde, et si chaque peuple n'était  pas mis en mesure d'offrir sa contribution à tous les échelons et dans tous les domaines.
15 14.18 Une autre condition nécessaire de la réalisation de ces objectifs fondamentaux est que tout  être humain puisse librement accéder à la culture : l'analphabétisme doit être définitivement  vaincu, le droit à l'instruction garanti, les échanges culturels entre les peuples intensifiés,
14.19 La Déclaration universelle des droits de l'homme et les conventions internationales qui g!  réfèrent sont l'expression des aspirations des peuples du monde actuel. Pour faire en sorte or ¥  tous les membres de chaque communauté puissent bénéficier de ces droits, il est indispensap]  tous les Etats, grands ou petits et a quelque systéme social ou politique qu'ils appartiennent,  adoptent les mesures les plus appropriées afin que les droits de l'homme ne soient pas rendus  vains, par des structures politiques et sociales coercitives et inadéquates telles, notamment, les  politiques de répression, de discrimination raciale ou fondées sur des préjugés raciaux,  € que
14.20 Une grande place devra être réservée à l'information : il faut objectivement reconnaître que  nous avons ressenti jusqu'à présent l'absence d'un réseau d'information qui permette à tous les  pays, en particulier aux plus petits et aux plus défavorisés économiquement, de savoir ce qui se  passe dans le monde, non seulement au niveau des groupes dirigeants, mais aussi au niveau des  masses populaires et surtout de le savoir sans que les nouvelles soient manipulées. Ce sont  surtout les petits pays qui, tributaires de pays plus grands, sont contraints d'utiliser des informa-  tions remaniées plusieurs fois et restent presque toujours en marge de l'information, qui est aux  mains de ceux qui non seulement disposent d'importants instruments nationaux mais aussi peuvent  facilement accéder aux réseaux internationaux d'information, Nous exprimons dès lors le voeu que  puisse bientôt arriver l'heure où la voix des petits pays pourra constituer un facteur non négli-  geable, même à l'échelon international, de l'écroulement définitif des vieux échafaudages sur les-  quels se fondait une fausse conception de la culture, que puisse naître et s'épanouir une nouvelle  conscience ouverte à l'universalité, dans le contexte de laquelle les Etats les plus faibles et les plus  démunis puissent trouver leur espace naturel. Voilà ce que les petits pays attendent ; ils n'ont pas  à obéir à une logique de puissance et leur contribution, n'impliquant aucune réserve mentale, ne  saurait être le fruit d'aucun faux-semblant sous lequel se cacherait quelque intérêt inavoué. Une  conscience ouverte à l'universalité ne mesure pas le poids d'un Etat en fonction des kilomètres  carrés ou du nombre d'habitants de son territoire, ou, pire encore, en fonction de son potentiel  militaire ou économique, mais plutôt selon l'aptitude dont il fait preuve à se rendre disponible aux  exigences de l'homme.
14.21 Vous voudrez bien excuser l'insistance avec laquelle je parle des petits pays, mais je suis  le représentant d'une très petite République qui vit depuis seize siècles et qui voit se développer  sa propre réalité culturelle grâce à des initiatives de base que mon gouvernement estime extrême-  ment positives pour la vie de notre communauté, où la liberté d'expression est considérée.comme  un droit fondamental et inaliénable. L'essor de ces initiatives est en effet un aspect du développe-  ment de la société et le Ministère de l'instruction publique et de la culture que j'ai l'honneur de  diriger se soucie de les stimuler en favorisant la création d'organes d'autogestion culturelle,
14.22 Mais le problème de la culture s'identifie, à un certain stade, à celui de l'information  intérieure et internationale. Pour être culturellement valable, le discours d'une nation doit reposer  sur l'emploi de moyens de communication appropriés, surtout de ces moyens qui, comme la radio  et la télévision, exercent aujourd'hui la plus immédiate et importante emprise sur les masses.
14.23 Si chaque pays, grand ou petit, a le droit de développer de façon autonome son propre  patrimoine culturel et de le faire connaître aux autres - la connaissance constituant une prémisse  fondamentale du développement des relations - il devra nécessairement disposer de ses propres  instruments d'information, et avoir la possibilité d'accéder aux canaux internationaux de cette  même information dans des conditions de pleine liberté et d'égalité des droits et des devoirs, Si  cet objectif n'est pas concrètement atteint, la présence de beaucoup d'Etats dans la vie internatio-  nale, et par conséquent dans les organisations internationales de la famille des Nations Unies,  sera souvent purement symbolique et presque toujours dénuée d'efficacité.
14.24 C'est pourquoi mon gouvernement souhaite que le problème de l'information et des moyens  de communication, qui est à la base de tout développement endogène de la culture, soit au centre  de l'attention de la Conférence générale et fasse l'objet d'un examen approfondi tant dans le cadre  du Projet de plan à moyen terme que dans celui du Projet de programme et de budget pour les  deux prochaines années.
14.25 A propos de ces deux documents, je désire féliciter et remercier le Directeur général et  le Secrétariat pour l'excellent travail qu'ils ont accompli, en nous présentant avec le maximum de  clarté et de précision les problèmes, les objectifs et les prévisions qui seront à la base des tra-  vaux de cette assemblée et qui marqueront une étape décisive pour l'activité future de  l'Organisation.
14.26 Cette activité, j'en suis fermement convaincu, pourra compter comme par le passé gun  collaboration de tous les Etats membres sans exception, dont les divergences de vues - inévitables  dans toute famille - devraient trouver en cette terre d'Afrique le terrain de conciliation idéal, fo  l'esprit de l'Acte constitutif que nous avons tous pris l'engagement de respecter. Merci, Monsiet  le Président.
15, Le PRESIDENT. -  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de Saint-Marin. Je donne mai Pen > ntenant la à  M. Chan Siang Sun, ministre adjoint de l'éducation et chef de la délé pores gation de la Malaisie,
16,1 Mr, CHAN SIANG SUN (Malaysia):  Mr, President, honourable delegates, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to con- gratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to your high office and to wish you every success  in your work. On behalf of my Government, I am happy to convey to the Government and people of  Kenya and to all present here today our warm greetings and best wishes for the success of this  nineteenth session of the General Conference. I should also like to associate myself with the dis-  tinguished speakers who have expressed their appreciation to the Government of Kenya for the ex-  cellent arrangements made for this Conference and for the warm hospitality accorded to us all.  We extend also our welcome to the new members ofthe Organization - the States ofAngola, Grenada  Mozambique, Papua New Guinea, Seychelles and Surinam, : :
16,2 As previous speakers have noted, an earthquake occurred in Indonesia last week, On behalf of my  Government, may I take this opportunity to extend our sympathies and condolences to the Govern-  ment of Indonesia for this sad misfortune,
16.3 I now turn to the affairs of Unesco, and I should like to begin by expressing our appreciation  to the Executive Board and the Director-General and his staff for having steered the Organization  through a critical and difficult period since the close of the last session; and also for their work  in preparing the Draft Medium-Term Plan and the Draft Programme and Budget, I should parti-  cularly like to commend the practice of consultation with Member States by means of question-  naires preceding the drawing up of the Draft Programme and Budget, With the encouraging response  from Member States, document C/5 should reflect more accurately than ever before the special  concerns and needs of our individual nations, Mr, President, the fact that this session of the  General Conference is being held in Africa for the first time will also give new inspiration to those  millions of people in this part of the world who are still struggling for their right to live in dignity  and respect, in their own countries. Mr. President, tomorrow (4 November) the Organization  celebrates its Thirtieth Anniversary and we are all duly proud of its many achievements, This  event, occurring as it does soon after the United Nations resolution ona new international economic  order, aimed specifically at transferring the world spotlight from the traditional centres of power  and influence to the erstwhile neglected regions of our developing world, must also be an added  source of satisfaction to us all, Furthermore, Nairobi as the site of the recent UNCTAD Confer-  ence lends a forceful reminder to the theme of the continuing need of the younger members of the  world community to press for a just share of the world's riches as part of our common heritage,  a point of view which we are glad to note is being given increasing prominence in those Unesco pro-  grammes which are not only directed to the preservation of man's cultural achievements in the  past, but also towards improving the quality of life in the future.
16.4 Scientific progress and technology are vital to the development of any country, and the more  so to our developing nations where rapid economic growth is essential to meet the needs of an ex-  panding population. It is for this reason that we in Malaysia have given due emphasis to the de-  velopment of science and technology. For example, in September last year our National Council  for Scientific Research and Development was inaugurated by our late Prime Minister, Tun Haji  Abdul Razak bin Hussein, We therefore welcome the Director-General's initiative for the designa-  tion of a future International Year for Science and Technology. Malaysia was privileged to host a  meeting of directors of National Councils for Science Policy and Research in Asia and Oceania,  which was held last November to review the current science and technology policies of countries  in this region, and to propose measures for making such policies more relevant to developmental  needs. We very much hope that the recommendations of this meeting will be given careful con-  sideration by Unesco planners responsible for activity programmes in this field, Malaysia as a  developing country with a vital interest in the scientific management of its natural resources,  both on land and in its surrounding seas, welcomes Unesco's current concern with such topical  matters as marine pollution, hydrological development, and studies of the biosphere. We are  happy to state that Malaysia's institutions of higher education and technical departments have  been involved in this work, and we shall continue to co-operate to the full in all these worthwhile  endeavours, In the field of scientific education as such, our RECSAM or Regional Centre of Sci-  ence and Mathematics under the SEAMEO programme enjoys an amicable relationship with Unesco,  and we are confident that we can look forward to still more fruitful co-operation in the future.
16,5 In the field of culture, I am happy to note that the Malay Culture Project has again been  given a prominent place in the field plans for the next biennium, and it gives me much pleasure  to acknowledge once more Unesco's perceptive understanding and appreciation of the achievements  and aspirations of the Malay world, whose distinctive culture and traditions will thereby be more  Widely known and understood, through such help and support from an eminent world organization.  We are also pleased to note Unesco's growing involvement in our national plans for the develop-  ment of libraries, documentation and archives. A pilot project for a library network has been  launched in Malaysia, with Unesco's assistance, based on our National Library and five other  university libraries, It is to be hoped that the experience gained from this project will also be  relevant to similar programmes in other countries in the Asian region,
15 16.6 Mr. President, reverting to the theme of a new international economic order, I might men  tion that we have the same concern in our country, namely, to forge a new economic order by "  structuring the social framework, to bring about a more equitable distribution of the nation! :  by opening up more opportunities for the lower income groups so that the benefits of national pro.  gress can be shared by all. We are convinced that by so doing we are creating a more just society  in which every citizen will have a fair share and an equal stake in the prosperity and well-being =  the nation.  Swealth
16,7 In the most conspicuous area of education per se, which incidentally is the largest Component  in our national budget, my Government has been successful in recent years in implementing cer.  tain new programmes that are in conformity with overall national priorities, besides being directeq  specifically to the maintenance of quality education, in the context of the democratization of educa-  tional opportunity in the mass, We have thus expanded our Educational Media Service as a potent  means of extending quality teaching to our rural schools, and as an instrument for the inculcation  of national unity and identity, through educational television lessons in civics and in our national  language which is today the medium of instruction in all our national primary and Secondary schools  and, to an increasing extent, in our universities as well, I should like next to mention our Cur-  riculum Development Centre which, together with our Educational Planning and Research Division  forms the spearhead for educational reforms in our country. In 1974 the Planning and Research ;  Division of my Ministry completed a study on educational wastage and one of its major recommenda-  tions was implemented the following year. This was the Text Book Loan Scheme, mainly for the  benefit of the poor and the deprived, which thus provides an additional impetus for the democrati-  zation of education. Towards the same objective of reducing the economic imbalance between the  more affluent urban communities andthe less well-endowed rural groups, we have also progressively  extended our sub-system of residential secondary schools to cater for the needs of pupils in rural  areas. Under the current Third Malaysia Plan, our education and training programmes will be  increasingly geared not only to producing appropriate skilled personnel for the country's needs, but  also to acting as a catalyst to accelerate social mobility by breaking down the forces that identify  occupations and economic functions with race and locality. In this connection, I am happy tohear  that the Council of the International Bureau of Education will be recommending that the topic for  the 1979 International Conference on Education should be devoted to the theme of educational man-  agement, We very much look forward to this and other initiatives of Unesco in the coming years,  which we hope will increasingly be action-oriented in response to our more urgent needs, As to  the Regional Conferences of Ministers of Education and those responsible for Economic Planning,  I feel that, in view of the need for educational development to make timely responses to economic  and social changes, we should consider increasing the frequency of such conferences by having  one every five years.
16.8 Finally, Mr. President, I should like to conclude by reiterating our continued support for  Unesco and its ideals; and to it we accordingly pledge our full co-operation in its work towards  achieving its lofty aims. In a world of growing economic and political rivalries, Unesco can be  both a bridge and a forum, not for confrontation but for reasoned discussion and peaceful co-  existence. Mr. President, Sir, as custodians of the torch so hopefully lit thirty years ago, and  which has shone so brightly since, we must not allow the flame to falter for lack of sustenance.  We must therefore deplore any action, intentional or otherwise, which will tend to frustrate  Unesco's duty and capability to provide leadership and support for programmes within its fields  of competence, I am sure that this assembly would join me in wishing the Director-General every  success and encouragement in coping with his responsibilities in the difficult days ahead. Iam  confident too that, under your able guidance, Mr, President, this crucial session of the General  Conference will be steered to a happy conclusion as a fitting memorial to the first thirty years of  Unesco's existence, Thank you, Mr. President.
17, Le PRESIDENT. -  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Malaisie. Je donne maintenant la parole a S. Exc.  M. le Dr J. van Kemenade, ministre de l'éducation et des sciences du royaume des Pays-Bas et  chef de la délégation néerlandaise.
18.1 Mr, VAN KEMENADE (Netherlands):  Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to associate myself with all the delegates who  have already expressed their sympathy with the people of West Irian,
18.2 Mr. President, allow me to offer my sincere congratulations to you upon your election i)  the chair, and let me express likewise my gratitude to the country you represent, Kenya, which  is affording us such splendid hospitality.
18.3 I extend a warm welcome to our new Member States and, in particular, to the Government of  Surinam. For many years Surinam has participated in the work of the General Conference through  its representatives on the delegation of the Kingdom of the Netherlands; and now she is represented  here as an independent Member State. I hope that this will be the beginning of a fruitful partnership  between Surinam and Unesco. These words of welcome and good wishes are expressed on behalf  of the delegation of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, which represents the Governments of both the  Netherlands Antilles and the Netherlands,
18,4 Since the last decision of the General Conference, Mr,  General who had devoted themselves to the realization of the  passed away. Our thoughts go in the first place to Sir Julian Huxley, the scientist and humanist who, as the first Director-General, raised Unesco to an eminent place in the world of ret ad human sciences. But, more particularly, we think of René Maheu. Under his powerful and on spired leadership Unesco became the symbol and instrument of world-wide co-operation for the  promotion of human dignity. Both personalities will continue to live on within Unesco,  President, two former Directors-  ideals of our Organization have
18.5 Mr, President, if I were to make an analysis of the views of m  Unesco since the last session of the General Conference, I should ob  lent work that Unesco has accomplished in many fields is recognized  cern among both Government and people as well. This concern has arisen as a result of what is  called the "politicization of Unesco, which became apparent in a number of resolutions adopted  by the General Conference at its last session but which was already taking place before then, I  am convinced that politicization is not a bad thing as long as this remains limited to discussing  political and ideological aspects of educational, scientific, cultural and communication policy;  discussion of this kind is important and is a legitimate concern of Unesco in its capacity as =Spe-  cialized Agency of the United Nations. One might even say that to fail to discuss these political and  ideological aspects of Unesco would produce an organization of a purely technocratic character.  However, there is another form of politicization which arouses our concern, namely the use of  certain subjects in the fields of education, science, culture and communication exclusively for  foreign policy ends. We reject this form of politicization for the following reasons, It conflicts  with the aim for which Unesco was set up, namely to promote peace by means of international co-  operation in the fields within its competence, This co-operation - in the present state of world  relations between North and South and East and West - must not be endangered by using the sub-  jects discussed at Unesco for foreign policy purposes. This means that Unesco must be a home to  those who deal with matters of education, science, culture and communication, whether they are  ministers and their staff or educationalists, scientists, artists and their own free organizations.  The role of Unesco is to safeguard wherever possible the relative autonomy of these sectors, and  to protect the international co-operation and solidarity in these fields against improper interfer-  ence. Problems primarily of foreign policy should be referred, therefore, to the United Nations  General Assembly wherever this is feasible, in accordance with the division of responsibilities  within the system of the United Nations family,  ÿ countrymen with regard to  serve that, though the excel-  » there are feelings of con-
18.6 The most effective method of opposing the undesirable form of politicization I have just out-  lined was pointed out by our Director-General in his excellent closing address to the eighteenth  session of the General Conference, I quote: ''In anOrganization devoted to education, science and  culture, we must avoid those conflicts which take on the character of systematic confrontations.  We should perhaps also avoid the adoption of resolutions, even with large majorities, that could  result in deep bitterness in certain quarters'. And then, I quote him again: ""The golden rule for  anOrganization such as Unesco should always be the search for a consensus through patient and  open dialogue''. I should like to express my wholehearted agreement with the sentiments ex-  pressed by the Director-General; and I should like to add that it would be best not to prepare of-  ficial texts such as conventions, recommendations, declarations or resolutions which include  statements on which opinions in the world are so deeply divided. I should also like to stress that  the principle of universality is essential to Unesco. In order to maintain this, it is imperative  that all the Member States should be able to exercise their rights fully, equally and without  hindrance,
18.7 And now, Mr, President, I have some general comments to make on the two principal work-  ing documents of this General Conference, namely documents 19 C/4 and 19 C/5. First and fore-  most I have pleasure in thanking the Director-General and his staff for the large amount of valuable  work which they have put into the preparation of these two documents. I am also grateful thatthese  documents were arrived at through consultations involving a large number of Member States. I  attach great importance to these consultations, although the questionnaires still leave room for  improvement and the Member States should be given more time to complete them, It is important  for the individual countries, in particular the ministries concerned and the National ‘Commissions  for Unesco, to be directly involved in shaping the programme; I note that progress has been made  in this respect during the last two years.
18.8 In addition to the normal C/5 document we now have a Draft Medium-Term Planfor 1977-1982.  This is an impressive attempt to plan the Unesco programme and to establish its objectives on the  basis of the world-wide problems with which Unesco is faced in its fields of competence. The in-  tersectoral framework of the plan will undoubtedly stimulate the multidisciplinary and interdiscipli-  nary activities in the Unesco programme. In general, my delegation wishes to express its appre-  ciation of the Medium-Term Plan. That does not mean that we are unaware of the weak points in  it, in particular in the conceptual framework and the presentation of the programme actions ;  Moreover documents 19 C/4 and 19 C/5 have different functions. The C/4 document is designed  for planning and evaluation; these can be carried out on the basis of a framework drawn on accord-  ing to objectives. The C/5 document is designed for concrete programming and should inmyopin-  ion continue to be based on a division into sectors corresponding to those within the Secretariat,  We are therefore led to the conclusion that it would be preferable not to organize the biennial Draft  Programme and Budget on the lines of the 19 C/4 document.
15 18.9 Before going into some aspects of the content of the 19 C/4 document I should like to say a  word about the great importance I attach to the contribution made to the Unesco programme by the  non-governmental organizations. Unesco needs the help of these organizations in Preparing and  carrying out its programme: in many respects they provide the intellectual basis for the Organi-  zation's work and see to it that Unesco lives among large sections of the population. This ig why  I am not happy with the reduction in subsidies to the international non-governmental organizationg  which are eligible. It is essential to continue to contribute to the fixed costs of these organization  in order to ensure their continued existence and promote their establishment in as many Member  States as possible. Iam convinced, Mr. President, that this would prove a strong support to the  Director-General's policy of decentralization.
18.10 I should now like to express some thoughts on an important aspect of the content of docu-  ments 19 C/4 and 19 C/5, namely the idea of a new international economic order, First, I should  like to endorse strongly the Director-General's determination that the Unesco programme should  contribute as much as possible to the establishment of a new international economic order, as ex.  pressed in the Introduction to document 19 C/4. The Netherlands Government, too, considers it  very important that high priority be given to this development, It has already demonstrated thig  in the policy it has adopted, particularly in recent years. The Director-General, in his address  to the meeting of the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations in 1975, has already ex-  plained with the utmost clarity what the significance of a new economic order should be, I share  his opinion that: “In the last analysis, the concept of a new international order is something more  than a set of legal rules based on the recognition of rights and duties; it is the acceptance of a cer-  tain system of values, the values of justice, equality, liberty and solidarity, and the will to give  them real effect'' (Draft Medium-Term Plan, paragraph 80). We must realize that the consider-  able economic differences between rich and poor countries, which are becoming greater ratherthan  smaller, cannot be reconciled with the principle of international solidarity. We must be clearly  conscious of the fact that reducing economic inequality on a world-wide scale is important to de-  veloped and developing countries alike, This is especially true when we apply the concept of de-  velopment to culture, science and education,
18.11 In looking for solutions to this far-reaching problem, we must draw attention to the follow-  ing points which we consider important especially in the framework of Unesco. First, the need to  involve the population in whatever policy is pursued. Autonomy, and then I think of self-help, self-  reliance and participation, shoula grow or be maintained onthe basis of solidarity, A policy thought  out by small groups and imposed by force on the entire population, in our opinion, can only lead to  continued social inequality and can only cause une creation of new and inhibiting hierarchical  relationships.
18,12 Mr, President, speaking of the participation of all g.oups in society in the decision-making  process, I want to draw your attention in particular to the weak position of women in many societies,  To give only one example, we all know that, especially in the rural areas of developing countries,  women have a central position in the family and the community; they are for instance to a large ex-  tent the food producers. They have a predominant influence on the development of children, etc,;  accordingly they have a special right to education, thus enabling them to share better inthe decision-  making process, The Netherlands Government takes the emancipation of women very much to heart,  I am therefore pleased to note that the Medium-Term Plan sets out two objectives in this connec-  tion, which I hope will enable the Organization to work out a well co-ordinated programme for the  development of women's role in society.
18.13 The second point is the need to direct policy towards preserving and developing cultural  differentiation, The principle we uphold implies accepting cultural pluralism and at the same time  recognizing the equality of the various cultures. This is based on a conception which gives man  and his socio-cultural relations a central position in society. We should create the possibilities  for various groups and individuals in a given society to realize freely their ideas about expression,  reflection and personal development. We should stimulate creativity with a view to fostering in-  novation for a meanginful development of the individual and society. We reject a uniform cultural  ideal belonging only to a social elite, a political monopoly or commercial interests and imposed  unilaterally from above; nor can we agree with the obligatory social and cultural pluralism andthe  resulting inequality that are major aspects of the policy of apartheid - a policy we reject completely  because it constitutes a violation of basic human rights,
18.14 The third point is the need to give more thought to the relationship between economic devel-  opment and socio-cultural development, Economic development has repercussions on social and  cultural conditions: this is, as you know, a commonplace in the social sciences, and many activi:  ties in this sector relate to the study of the consequences of economic development.
18.15 Another subject to which I should like to draw attention in this context is the need to adapt  technological development more closely to the social and cultural conditions of many countries and  their population. During the past few years we have become aware of the need to adapt technology  In its programme, Unesco should give particular attention to the adaptation of technology, notably  through multidisciplinary action of the natural sciences, social sciences and education sectors.  But this is only one side of the problem, since the economy is to a certain extent also influenced.  by culture: people should have the possibility to choose according to their own conceptions, in  terms of goals, ideas, values and world views, and should have the opportunity to choose between
632      alternative social orders; these choices affect the nature, direction and s  ment. Through their creative powers, people can make new de  always fit the predetermined economic models.  peed of economic develop-  velopments possible which do not
18.16 In this context, Mr. President, attention should also be given to the adaptation of the media technologies and infrastructure of the developing countries. The significant role the ns  mass media play in shaping the intellectual life of society and public opinion, makes it nece ii  to discontinue the dependence of developing countries on the mass media institutions of the a  countries, and to give the developing countries their own possibilities of informing and PR  the population by a free flow of information. We should be aware of the fact however, that oy  flow of information can be realized only if the diversity of opinions and cultural identities in the  population can be expressed, An essential condition for this is a complete freedom of expression  which we consider a cornerstone of a free and democratic society and a necessary precondition  for a real two-way flow of information between developed and developing countries, Therefore  we have to reject the principles behind the draft declaration governing the use of mags media Pres  posed to this Conference, but at the same time we are of the opinion that the developing countries  ought to be supported, by Unesco or otherwise, in the shaping of their mass media infrastructure,  For all these reasons, Mr. President, the attempt to achieve a new international economic order  can on no account be restricted to economic matters, but comprises extremely important social  and cultural elements to which Unesco should pay special attention,
18.17 The fourth point to which I wish to draw your attention is the need to make the population  aware of the necessity of reducing inequalities in the world at both national and international level,  This implies that it is not enough to formulate the bases for international co-operation and solidarity  in abstract and theoretical terms, If these terms are to be part of living reality, they must find a  place in people's everyday thinking. In order to achieve this, effective information and education  programmes are needed in the industrialized countries and should also be aimed at the privileged  in the poor countries, This is, in my opinion, extremely important if the peoples of the more  developed countries are to feel and act in solidarity with other peoples. The dissemination of  knowledge in the rich countries about living conditions in the poor countries must therefore be  stimulated. Progress towards a new economic order demands not only analysis of the interdepen-  dence of rich and poor countries, but also studies on the development of international solidarity,  What I have just said would also include the development of a new life-style, particularly in the  rich countries of the world, We realize that thinking on new life-styles and on the chances of their  becoming accepted on a large scale is still in its infancy. The principles on which a new life-style  should be based still need to be discussed. One such principle, however, implies a policy aimed  at reducing human suffering to a minimum and abandoning the drive for maximum production  especially in industrial countries. According to this idea (Alder Karlsson's inverted utilitarian-  ism'), speaking in economic terms, no one ought to be allowed to obtain any more scarce commodi-  ties until the poorest of the world's inhabitants have enough to be able to lead a decent life. It  would be necessary in this case to sketch out a policy based on the needs of the poorest people in  the poorest countries. Reduction of the various forms of inequality is one of the first requirements  in attempting to achieve a more lasting peace.
18.18 Mr, President, it seems to me that further consideration needs to be given to the concrete  contribution which the Unesco programme can make in education, science, culture and communi-  cation towards a new international economic order. At the moment we have not gone beyond point-  ing out a number of subjects which, in the light of a new international economic order, must have  priority: ''science and technology" in the natural sciences; study of the development process and  in particular its social and cultural aspects in the social sciences; the issue of cultural identity in  the cultural sector; in the field of communication our priority is to provide infrastructures; and  finally, as far as education is concerned, it is a question of investing in the development of people,  so as to render them more aware of reality in order to achieve a more just, equal and free society  based on solidarity, both national and global, In more concrete terms, it would mean, for example,  that Unesco could pay more attention to extending and improving the most important branches of  education, namely, primary education and elementary vocational education, As far as education  is concerned, Mr. President, I may refer here to the excellent speech made by the delegate of the  People's Republic of Cameroon, two days ago, from this rostrum. Itis clear that, seen in this  way, Unesco is becoming a true development organization: development in the broad sense of the  word, applicable as an overall concept to all types of society, that means to all our countries  whether developing or developed, as argued in document 19 C/4. Development in the narrow sense  too, however, specially directed at the developing countries in a context of international solidarity -  here Unesco is to a large extent an instrument for these countries' governments in carrying out  their own national development policies.
18.19 Before I conclude, I should like to make one brief comment on Unesco's activities in the  field of human rights. I am glad that the Medium-Term Plan recognizes the assurance of human  rights as an important world problem. Violations of human rights are often directed at groups, ,  at collectivities. This is why it must be Unesco's task to continue the fight against racism and al  other forms of discrimination unabated, and to support peoples and groups in their struggle for  emancipation. However, not only the human rights of collectivities and population groups but also  the rights and fundamental freedoms of the individual are of essential importance. One example  I could mention is the increasing use of physical and mental toriure against prisoners, including  political prisoners. Wherever in the world individuals are exposed to torture and physical or
15 mental violence because of their convictions, which their oppressors regard as contrary to their  interests, the world must not hesitate to condemn these practices. For this reason Unesco hasa  task to perform in protecting individual human rights and freedoms. I wonder whether the Medium  Term Plan should not in fact pay more attention, or at least more explicit attention to this, for  example in the wording and elaboration of the subobjectives under Objective 1,1.
18.20 My conclusion, Mr. President, is that the work which Unesco has to do is becoming more  and more important. The extent to which the Organization is able to carry out its task, and in  particular the objectives of the Medium-Term Plan, will depend for the most part on the Member  States. They will have to answer the question whether the 141 Member States of Unesco can agree  with a reasonable degree of unanimity, to carry out the Unesco working programme together, 1 ;  hope and trust that, inspired by our Director-General, we at this General Conference in Nairobi  will be successful. Thank you, Mr. President.
19. Le PRESIDENT. -  Je remercie le chef de la délégation des Pays-Bas, Je donne la parole à S. Exc. le Dr Advertus  Hoff, ministre de l'éducation et chef de la délégation du Libéria.
20.1 Mr. HOFF (Liberia):  Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, Mr, Chairman of the Executive Board, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen: another biennium has rolled by and the educational leaders of  the world have again assembled to set policies and guidelines for Unesco's activities during 1977  and 1978. Considering the far-reaching implications of our deliberations, it is important that we  approach our task with sobriety and honesty. However, permit me, Mr, President, first to con-  gratulate you for the distinguished honour conferred upon you by this august body through your  election to this prestigious office. Itis an honour bestowed not only on you as an individual, but  on the great country you represent, I bring cordial greetings and felicitations from President  William R. Tolbert, Jr. , and from the Government and people of Liberia, to the nineteenth session  of the General Conference of Unesco, convening for the first time on African soil in this beautiful  city of Nairobi, Kenya. Special sentiments of thanks and appreciation come from Liberia to His  Excellency, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, President of the Republic of Kenya, and to the Government and  people of Kenya. Kenya's action in hosting this international conference is characteristic of her  warm African hospitality. Congratulations are also due to the Director-General and his highly  competent staff for successfully completing the first biennium of his administration. In face of  mounting international tensions and tense economic conditions, it is realized, that the task has been  arduous and exasperating. Notwithstanding, the Director-General has proved to be resourceful,  tenacious and committed; dedicated to the continuity and success of Unesco and the cohesion of its  Member States. We in Africa and the developing world are extremely proud of Mr, Amadou-Mahtar  M'Bow. I wish to assure him of Liberia's irrevocable confidence, support and co-operation,
20.2 The nineteenth session of the General Conference is considering several major issues, The  proposed budget for 1977-1978 is, as may be expected, among the foremost of these, Liberia sup-  ports the proposal that a fixed exchange rate be established, conditioned by the Director-General's  assessment of significant changes in the world's economic inflation and monetary variations,  Liberia also associates herself with the recommendations of the Executive Board as these relate to  (a) monies that may accrue through the "Provision for Currency Fluctuation'', and (b) the adoption  of programme proposals additional to those in the proposed Programme and Budget for 1977-1978.  We detect the presence of a certain notion: that the growth in Unesco's budget is somehow attribu-  table to a self-enlarging Secretariat. We trust that such a notion has no foundation in reality. In  spite of continuing fiscal constraints, the Secretariat has gone beyond the call of duty to render  assistance when urgent and deserving requests have been made. It is our view that this sensitivity  on the part of the Secretariat to our human needs has been matched by a concomitant commitment  to the expeditious disbursement of Unesco's resources. We anticipate that the recommended  restriction on "unallocated-for' programmes, should it be approved, will lighten the Secretariat's  burden. Liberia accordingly supports the provisional budget level of $224,413,000 for 1977-1978.  We would hope that passage of this budget will be met with deeds and not mere words by Member  States. We would also hope that the tendency of certain Member States to withhold contributions  because of policy disagreement will not become a pattern of action, On the other hand, the ten-  dency to aggravate what could be minor delicate matters and transform them into major issues,  thereby engendering severe counter-measures, should not be pursued by Member States. To this  end, we ought not to ask the Director-General to execute imaginative wide-ranging programmes  and then saddle him with crippling resolutions or amendments,
20. 3- We applaud the restructuring of the Secretariat and the case for its broader geographical  representation so as further to prove Unesco's universality and rich diversity of cultures. Ina  period of fiscal constraints, such representation may seem highly experimental to say the least,  We believe, however, that the desired objective will more than compensate for temporary discom-  fiture, if that indeed is the situation. The regional orientation of Unesco's programmes 18 having  the desired effects. Increasingly the impact of these programmes is being felt among Member  States, in one way or another. Along with the regional thrust has been the corresponding me  tralization of implementing units, We are of the opinion that perhaps greater effectiveness  obtained with added strengthening of the Regional Offices, especially in terms of material outpu  and assistance to Member States involved.
20.4 The multidisciplinary approach that Unesco has advocated for  our national educational systems is now wholeheartedly being applie  research activities. We are much interested in Unesco's emphasis on the human applicability of  scientific and technological inquiries. The gargantuan studies that have issued a a of science and technology have not necessarily been in favour of the human race  that there can be no substantial development without the application of science and technology; yet the expansion of science and technology must be tempered by a like expansion of the a  man as the centre of the development process. We must admit that the Member States of Unesco are at varying levels of scientific and technological development in the Third World. Unesco is not unaware of the implications of this fact. We would therefore appreciate it if Unesco in the  preparation of works of scientific and technological synthesis on the develo : special attention to the varying levels and make proposals that would appro  actual condition at each level,  the restructuring of a few of  d by the Organization in its  We are aware  ping world, were to pay  ximately reflect the
20.5 Unesco's historic support of non-formal education has proved an adumbration of mass literacy  and functionalism in today's developing world, The problem of non-formal education has grown  larger and more complex as attempts are being made to find urgent and immediate solutions, We  are of the opinion that now is the time to develop an integrated approach that will be interministerial  in structure, with a rural (or semi-urban) bias in content. We would welcome Unesco's experienced  direction in making such an interministerial approach possible, in view of the fact that education is  everybody's business.
20.6 In accordance with Unesco's Constitution, Article I, Section 1, we are happy that Unesco's  operations and programmes are being carried out "without distinction of race, sex, language or  religion' and in furtherance of "the rule of law and for the human rights and fundamental free-  doms ...'. We happily note that Unesco decries apartheid, colonialism and racialism, and con-  tributes ''to peace and security by promoting collaboration among nations ...'". Liberia strongly  deplores and protests against the dehumanizing and degrading effects of colonialism, apartheid and  racialism. She demands their immediate eradication and elimination and is totally engaged in the  struggle toward that end. She unflinchingly stands beside the forces of peace and against those who  would make war an institution of daily life and the economics of armament a permanent fixture of  societal well-being. President William R. Tolbert, Jr., has reiterated, in numerous statements  in the world's forums, Liberia's complete adherence to all that sustains and promotes the dignity  of man and her stern opposition to all that defiles and denigrates him, I can do no better now than  to echo our national leader,
20.7 We in Liberia are much concerned with the way in which education, science and technology  can improve our quality of life, President William R. Tolbert, Jr. expressed Liberia's socio-  educational objectives in a national strategy for the national eradication of ignorance, poverty and  disease. We in the educational sector, are translating these objectives into a four-year develop-  ment plan with a diversification strategy whose cornerstone is integrated rural development. Our  educational system, from primary to graduate, has undergone a thorough review and is now at the  stage of implementation. Unesco has been of great assistance in the actualization of the educational  component of our four-year plan; Unesco helped with the revision of our teacher-training pro-  grammes and several short-term training and seminar grants. I mention these not to catalogue  Unesco's worth but as an indication of its collaborative effort. Without a special ideology to sell,  without a predetermined course of action to impose, without restricting experts to one- and only  one- unalterable listing, Unesco has contributed her measure by facilitating the concretization of  our hopes, by making functional in the Liberian setting our assorted visions.
20.8 As the nineteenth session of the General Conference continues its way into history, I should  like to end these remarks, Mr, President, with some simple observations. First, it seems to  me, and I stand corrected if wrong, that Unesco needs to reassert its original goals, those pur-  poses and functions that sought to unite mankind in collaborative efforts in the fields of science,  education, culture and communication. This would necessitate the de-emphasizing of those things  that divide, and divisively divide, and are seemingly immutable because of the various social  Systems from which we spring. Collaboration need not mean acquiescence, dictation or victory.  I think it should mean a general agreement that makes projects and programmes operative in a  varied organization such as Unesco, Secondly, it also seems to me, and again I stand corrected  if wrong, that the momentum in favour of science and technology should be looked into, so that a  more equitable balance can be struck with areas like education and culture. I submit that there is  a large grey area between science and technology on one side and education and culture on the  other; that the findings of any side are defined, in Unesco's context, by how they serve man. I  also submit that science and technology determine to a large extent the quality of modern life. Yet,  we in Liberia would like to see a greater Unesco input into our educational system. And, if the  trend persists, we are fearful of being left out in the cold, Mr, President, Mr. Director-General,  Mr, Chairman of the Executive Board, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you.
21. Le PRESIDENT. - .  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Libéria. Je donne la parole au dernier orateur de cette  matinée, le sénateur Dudley J. Thompson, ministre des affaires étrangères et chef de la déléga-  tion de 1a Jamaique.
15 22.1 Mr. THOMPSON (Jamaica):  Mr. President, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen: may I join  the distinguished delegate who has spoken before me in expressing the deepest Sympathy of the  people of Jamaica for the people of Indonesia, following the earthquake that has caused death and  suffering in that country. On the other hand, we wish to express our great pleasure in welcom  the new members of Unesco. We are sure they will play their full part in the search for peace  justice and a better life for all our people. I refer to Angola, Grenada, Mozambique, Seychelles  Surinam and Papua New Guinea. ’  ing
22.2 Mr. President, let me express my profound happiness and deep gratitude to be here in  Nairobi, which is my second home. I am particularly glad that this first session of the General  Conference to take place outside the developed world for 20 years should be held in Africa, on  African soil, and chaired by yourself, a distinguished representative of a country whose President  Mr. Jomo Kenyatta, was in a very real sense, not only the father of this nation, but an early lenis  of the liberation movements that have resulted in the independence of many African countries apart  from his own. Jamaica supports, and has always supported, all liberation movements on thig  continent. I am equally pleased that the Director-General, a very distinguished son of Africa, who  is well known in Jamaica, along with his charming wife, symbolizes the bridge between the mother  continent of Africa and those extended parts of the family like Jamaica and other countries in the  Caribbean. We are proud that our own contribution has been Mr. Hector Wynter, the present  Chairman of the Executive Board, well known to you all. There are many reasons why this particu-  lar conference in Africa should be an outstanding success. Most international conferences in the  past have centred in places like New York, London, Paris and Geneva. Their Eurocentricity has  followed the traditional form. This is the year when the developing world is making its own unique  contribution towards universal peace and towards a new world order, For too long, the rich values  of the ancient cultures of Africa have been lost to a world that has been reluctant to recognize them,
22.3 The Director-General in his opening remarks appealed for unity of purpose and harmony of  procedure. He recalled the ancient African customs where the chief of the tribe achieved consensus  after due consideration in the traditional custom of those ancient civilizations. Today the world is  getting tired and frustrated by the failures of many international conferences. I have every con-  fidence that, under the wise and vigorous leadership of our Director-General and yourself, Mr,  President, the harmonious practices of Africa referred to will achieve success. Jamaica pledges  her full support towards that achievement. The resolution of outstanding human problems does not  lie as a gift within the power of the great nations. History has forced us into a relationship of  interdependence and it requires comprehension by and co-operation between both the industrialized  and the developing worlds. In short, it is only by the exercise of political will that this desired new  world order will be created. The pious hopes frequently expressed in official rhetoric fail repeatedly  because, although politicians make policies for their governments, it is the people that create public  opinion. But this public opinion must be informed by a knowledge of the facts and a truly humane  perspective. Let me give you an example. Although the military industrial complex of the great  powers, for years now in this arms race, has reached the awesome figure of 300 billion dollars in  one year's expenditure as a purveyor of death and destruction, no one would doubt that the ordinary  people of the world, of both the developed and the developing world - the teachers, the doctors, the  workers, the housewives - would consider it shameful that this amount is 20 times the amount spent  on development aid for two-thirds of the hungary world. There is no doubt that the ordinary people of  the world would consider it wasteful, wrong and sinful to spend millions on tanks, missiles and guns,  most of which are never used butare stored up to rust - only to be replaced by newer ones. These  people know that schools do not rust, hospitals are never in disuse, and millions of hungry mouths  and undernourished bodies could be fed on a fraction of the amount spent on these weapons of  destruction. It is the duty of Unesco to facilitate the dissemination of this knowledge to the peoples  of the world and not merely to expect the politicians and governments to do this job. And I wish in  this respect to associate myself with the remarks made by the distinguished representative of the  Netherlands, with regard to this duty. Mr, President, current problems such as racial tension,  economic imbalances, pollution, illiteracy, military confrontation, to mention a few, which not only  have grown and are growing at a dangerously fast pace between nation and nation but are also mani-  festing themselves in the social and political injustices between different sectors of the society  within some nations themselves, generate new problems. It is to avoid this danger that the Third  World has been consistent and clear in the call for the creation of a new socially just order for  mankind,
22.4 Mr, President, it is the burden of my intervention here that the imperialist super-powers of  the world have so abused the media that they have perpetrated a myth which has paralysed, for  generations, man's ability to accept the simple truth - which is that the primary duty of a govern:  ment, any government, should be to allow and assist man to develop himself to his fullest potential  as an individual in a just society. The chauvinism of narrow nationalism, under the guise of La  otism, limits man's concern for his brother to his national boundaries or even less to a certain  section or class of society. In its worst form this myth for the last six decades or so has been  misleading the poor of this world into believing that their suffering and neglect were due to sous  political disease arising out of an east-west ideological division of the world. This division 18  currently maintained as a north-south difference - the north being the industrialized countries 1N  almost complete control of the media and the south being, by and large, the developing world of ,  non-aligned. Let me expose some of these myths, Such common phrases as l£reedom of the er ’  "freedom of the press'', which the poor have accepted without question, should not conceal the fac
636      that freedom of the seas, for example, merely means the ability of the naval hegemoni t loi two-thirds of the world's surface while two-thirds of the world's population Pr t mate en En phrase in ignorance and poverty. And what does freedom of the press really mens To ee Hoy it seems to suggest that the press must be completely free from any form of government fat ig even to the extent where liberty becomes licence. Let me hasten to point out that the at ro  of Jamaica upholds the freedom of the press but not in that narrowly defined sense At ae freedom of the press very often signifies neither more nor less than the ability of that Fh 2 the society with sufficient capital or power to monopolize the media, We find this unacceptable, We in Jamaica would also reject, for the same reason, an entirely government-controlled press because in our society the administration or government is only one sector and, in our interpretation, free- dom of the press cannot and must never mean that any one sector - whether the private sector or  government or trade unions, or church or whatever - should be able so to manipulate the media as  to make them not only a means of expressing their own point of view but a means of doing so exclu- sively on matters of public interest, A free press must reflect a broad spectrum of opinion, so to  us the media must be opened to all - that is our true freedom, At the recent conference of roue  aligned countries in Sri Lanka the distinguished Prime Minister of India, Mrs, Indira Ghandi  mooted a Third World press agencies pool, I strongly recommend this idea to this body for devious  consideration as a possible, if partial, remedy to the present unsatisfactory situation,  ing world has been misinterpreted as well as misunderstood - both design and ignorance  bined to resist those who demand social and political change,  The develop-  have com -
22.5 Mr, President, there is no doubt that technological advancement has made it possible to eradi-  cate disease and to feed the world, The expenditure on arms alone for one year by the developed  world could provide the financial means required to make the entire world literate. Instead the  military industrialists who own the developed world are the ones who make the decisions under this  existing system of world order where between 1975 and 1985 the industrialized countries will witness  the number of their own children without schooling decreasing steadily from 20 million to 6 million.  In this same period, in the developing world the vast horde of those unfortunate peoples who will  receive no schooling at all will rise from 264 million to 405 million. So much for the old order of  things. These stark figures are known by the military industrialists, the politicians and govern-  ments of the world. So far they have had no effect apart from the monotonous rhetoric of the famil-  iar pattern of international gatherings. It is my belief that Unesco has a clear duty to bring these  facts before all the peoples of the world. These and other basic reasons explain why two-thirds of  the world have been patiently repeating the call for the new international social order. In our belief,  this should be a compulsory subject in all schools of both the developed and developing world, And  it is my belief that the teacher, the farmer, the workers of the world, the ordinary mothers and  fathers, will reject the callousness with which the manipulators in our systems purchase tanks and  super tanks, bombs and super bombs, in this mad race where the merchants of death and destruc-  tion, all exclusively among the developed world, isolate themselves from the demands of the hungry  and the illiterate.
22.6 Mr. President, international development strategies, of which we hear very much in recent  years, reveal the works of economists and statisticians who calculate development in terms of per  capita growth and gross national product. Their discipline does not enable them to measure either  social justice, human happiness, or cultural development, but all of these are instinctively evalu-  ated by the man in the street, Our concern at Unesco is for the development of whole and healthy  men and women in a whole and healthy world. Most of the countries represented here have at some  time or other experienced the debilitating trauma of cultural dislocation. The harmful and insidious  results of colonial experience are too well known to require repetition here. They extend far beyond  economic or material domination. Such dislocation superimposes itself on a people's total view of  itself and destroys its self-reliance. The deliberate policy of imperialism can be equated to geno-  cide, and we often overlook the total control of the media by the private sector in capitalistic society  which is another form of intellectual imperialism.
22.7 Few areas or peoples of the world have had their cultural heritage more undervalued than  those of Africa. But as imperialism, colonialism and racialism wither away, the dynamics of  history are effectively adjusting this distortion. We pay tribute to the children and men of South  Africa and Zimbabwe who are prepared to write their own freedom in terms of their own blood,  Itis only in recent years that the public at large has not only begun to appreciate African culture,  but indeed has begun to accommodate itself to the fact that these two words are at ail compatible  with each other - such is the effect of imperialism. In fact it is only after those like the famous  Pablo Picasso, who clearly revealed and demonstrated that his art form came from this so-called  "dark continent'', that it came to be accepted by the Euro-centrist world. Students of history,  religion or philosophy today have discovered that so many of the so-called backward" millions of  the world live in closer and more constant relationship with the fundamentals of nature than do the  sophisticated merchants of death to whom I have referred. Mr. President, it is the duty of Unesco  to diffuse throughout the world, to both rich and poor, the real meaning of interdependence. For it  is certain that neither by themselves can bring this new order into being.
22.8 Let me give you an example using my own small country. After 300 years of colonial rule,  the balance sheet revealed in the 1960s, at the end of that colonial period, a small island of LP  million people of whom nearly 50 per cent were illiterate. This was a small country in es od  of islands whose sugar and tropical fruit had built the huge cities of the ao ere +  It is in this condition of gross illiteracy in the most primitive sense that we found ours g
15 the harsh competition of our capitalist competitors of the technological age. Ten years after inde  pendence - in fact up to 1972 - with a government seriously struggling within that very system sn  developing it - still 84 per cent of the population of Jamaica received no education at all after 15  years of age - and we are not the worst in that colonial tragedy. We do not quarrel with history  when we look back at the mountains of illiterate dead, the unskilled millions that constituted monu-  ments of neglect during those 300 years. It is difficult to forgive - it is impossible to forget. But  it is easy to see the disadvantages faced by small developing countries in the present world under  the old system. Our reply, without bitterness, is to look deeply into our own culture to find our  own remedy and to build a new system of social justice whose first element is self-reliance, One  of the first commitments of the present Government of Jamaica was to take positive steps towards  ridding the country of illiteracy. That is a moral commitment, the philosophy of which is expressed  in these words of our Prime Minister, the Hon. Michael Manley: "Any society that has set itself  the objective of social justice based upon equality cannot tolerate substantial illiteracy nor can it  hope to accomplish economic transformations''. Jamaica's educational effort has on two occasions  won recognition by Unesco, which awarded us prizes for outstanding development in this direction,  We take pride in the fact that some 30 per cent of our national budget is expended on education, We  ask the developed members of the world here to understand our difficulties which are typical of the  developing countries of the world, We believe that this is at the root of some of the most pressing  problems facing mankind. We do not find it difficult to relate education to the quest for internation]  peace and security when we consider that each neglected individual festering in the ghettos of the  world on the doorsteps of the wealthy, represents a human time-bomb ticking away. We do not find  it difficult to relate it to the critical problems of human rights - now a most urgent issue before the  world, Because we believe that a people's cultural axis is nothing less than the whole complex of  its inherited responses to the challenges of its environment. It is within this context that the con-  cept of cultural superiority and inferiority evolved and became an essential factor of imperialist  and colonialist tension. Time-bombs are to be found everywhere where there is social injustice,  racial discrimination and cultural neglect. For too long this picture has been clear before the  world and repeated over and over, but occasionally some magic formula - prepared of course by  the developed world - is offered as an instant solution to centuries of neglect.
22.9 The present explosive situation does not ask for palliatives but cures: nothing short of a new  philosophy of international relationships and the establishment of a new international social and  economic order will suffice. I repeat, the importance of education today assumes an even greater  priority in the context of interdependence and in the need for global co-operation to overcome the  problems facing mankind. I make no apologies once more for referring to the small island of  Jamaica. The cultural programmes and institutions being developed there in the training of our  own creative artists, in restoring and presenting to our citizens their legitimate cultural property,  testify to the conviction of the Jamaican Government that national independence is indistinguishable  from cultural integrity. It is a source of special pleasure to my delegation to see that budgetary  provisions in Unesco, small though they are, provide for the study of the dynamics of African cul-  tures, their analysis, characteristics and current significance and their influence outside Africa;  and they include an examination of the different components of African culture as well as the histori-  cal relationship between the Arab world and black Africa on the one hand, and on the other between  black Africa and the African diaspora in the world, particularly in North and South America. This  is a special source of pleasure because in Jamaica the African Caribbean Institute, within our  budgetary limitations, has gone far in this direction, for much of Africa's rich and varied culture,  through one of the most tortured and cruel passages of history, found its way into the Caribbean and  today constitutes the solid inner core of our people's psyche. I need hardly say that Jamaica sup-  ports these proposals in documents 19 C/4 and 19 C/5 in respect of Unesco's Six-Year Plan, and  the Draft Programme and Budget for the next two years,
22.10 Finally, I refer you to that strong reminder by President Kenyatta, that great man without  bitterness, who made an appeal to all of us for the common spirit of dedication, the elevation of  international understanding and co-operation. This was a call to all of us from a man whose statue  now stands outside this building where; a few years ago, he stood in handcuffs, shackled by the  imperialists. I saw him then, Today he is without bitterness, and he appeals to you for inter-  national co-operation. This is a sad contrast to those developed countries that have threatened or  withdrawn financial support from Unesco - an organization which is still the greatest source of hope  for those who seek social justice, human understanding and peace in this shrinking but divided world,
22.11 Mr. President, pardon me if I address just one sentence directly to the people of Kenya  whose hospitality we enjoy here together: "Watu wa Kenya Mungu Saidia, Dunia ni moja." (People  of Kenya, may God's help be with you, The world is one.) I ask that this spirit of Nairobi be  meditated seriously upon, on the eve of the 30th anniversary of Unesco. Mr. President, ladies  and gentlemen, I thank you.
23. Le PRESIDENT, - pe  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Jamaïque. Nous nous retrouverons cet après-midi  à 14 h 45. La première intervention de la séance sera celle du chef de la délégation de la Répu-  blique socialiste soviétique de Biélorussie et la seconde celle du chef de la délégation de la
638      République populaire du Mozambique, contrairement à It  f de la délégation du Mozambique a bien voulu accepter de parler en second  che hef de la délégation de la Biélorussie. Ce dernier m'a a au chef de la délégation du Mozambiqu s  ordre initialement prévu. En effet, le  , sur la demande  demandé de communiquer publiquement  e.  The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h. 20  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 13.20
3acezaune SaKperBaercs B 13.29 J Ei day Cm pind | BES ly à d>l}läcluJl 9 dus I] Ces,