Twenty-eighth plenary meeting
22 November 1976 at 3.10 p.m,  President: Mr, TOWEETT (Kenya)  then Mr, ARTHUR (Ghana)  Vingt-huitième séance plénière
22 Hos6p4 1976 r. B 15 a, 10 mn.  Ipexcezarers: r-H TOYOTT (Keuus)  sareM: r-H APTYP (Tana )  J5 Éally doll Lo Ls)  al Dl yay SI Gr 85/50 Y  Lis) cams aud! ous J  (LE) 51 ad)  REPORT OF PROGRAMME COMMISSION III: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS (continued) /  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION DU PROGRAMME III: RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDA -  TIONS (suite) /INFORME DE LA COMISION DEL PROGRAMA III: RESOLUCIONES Y  RECOMENDACIONES (continuaciôn)/  MOKJAI KOMHCCHH IO INPOTPAMME III: PEKOMEHAIHH H PE3SOJDIHH (Mpoxonxenne)  Lilo, Le l5 dalla) LS ia 6s
1, The PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, We now take up Discussion Unit 17 and I give the floor  to the Rapporteur of Programme Commission III to continue his report.
2.1 Mr, STRASSER (Netherlands), Rapporteur of Programme Commission III:  Discussion Unit 17 - Statistics   Thank you, Mr, President, Under Discussion Unit 17, the Commission considered section 5, 2  of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1977-1978 - Statistics - which concerns Objective 10,2 of  the Medium-Term Plan - Improvement in the collection and analysis of statistical data, and of  methods, techniques and international comparability of statistics for use in planning, research,  administration and evaluation, In addition to documents 19 C/4 and 19 C/5, the Commission had  before it the draft resolution contained in document 19 C/DR.125, submitted by Austria,
2.2 Nineteen delegations took the floor, as well as the observer of the Inter-American Association  of Broadcasters, Most of the speakers expressed their satisfaction with the programme and under-  lined the importance of statistics in the execution of other objectives,
2.3 Particular attention was drawn to the role of the statistical programme in the context of inter-  national comparability and evaluation, In this connection three Spanish-speaking representatives  expressed their opinion that the Unesco Statistical Yearbook should be issued ina trilingual edition  (English/French/Spanish) so as to facilitate its use within more than 20 Spanish-speaking Member  States.
2.4 The Commission unanimously approved the wording of Objective 10.2 and the average biennial  growth rate, as shown in document 19 C/4, paragraph 10220.
2.5 The following items then came up for discussion:  Item 30 - Draft recommendation concerning the international standardization of statistics on  radio and television (document 19 C/29)
28 Item 35 - Desirability of revising the Recommendation concerning the International Standarg.  ization of Educational Statistics, adopted by the General Conference at its tenth  session in 1958 (document 19 C/36 and Corr.)  Item 36 - Desirability of adopting an international instrument on the international standardiza.  tion of statistics relating to science and technology (document 19 C/37)
2.6 Item 30 gave rise to much discussion, The spirit behind the draft recommendation containeq  in document 19 C/29 received widespread support, and the work carried out for bringing the pro-  ject to its final stage was commended. There was, however, on the part of some speakers, the  view that the recommendation was an initial step, and that improvements would suggest themselyeg  with usage. Several Latin American delegations made objections to parts of the text of Annex I,  especially as regards the classification of broadcasting institutions, because they felt that it wag  not in conformity with Latin American circumstances. Another member proposed that considera-  tion of the draft recommendation should be adjourned to the twentieth session of the General Confer.  ence. This proposal was put to the vote and was defeated by 42 votes to 9, with 18 abstentions,  The draft recommendation was put to the vote as a whole and was adopted by 56 votes to 7, with
12 abstentions.
2.7 As regards item 35, the Commission considered favourably the proposal made in document
19 C/36 for revising the Recommendation concerning the International Standardization of Educa-  tional Statistics, adopted by the General Conference at its tenth session in 1958, to make it com-  patible with the International Standard Classification of Education (ISCED). The decision to revise  the Recommendation was taken unanimously and there was general agreement with the suggestion  that it was not necessary to set up a special committee of governmental experts to draw up the  final text of the instrument to be submitted to the General Conference at its twentieth session,
2.8 For item 36 (Desirability of adopting an international instrument on the international standard-  ization of statistics relating to science and technology), the Commission had before it document
19 C/37, it was unanimously decided that an international instrument was desirable, that it should  take the form of a recommendation and that a special committee of governmental experts should  draw up the final draft for submission to the General Conference at its twentieth session, Approval  of this recommendation as a whole was unanimous.
3.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. We now have to approve the wording of Objective 10,2, which appears in docu-  ment 19 C/4 and also the average biennial growth rate shown in document 19 C/4 paragraph 10220,  The Commission recommends this unanimously, so may I have your approval, please.
3.2 That is approved, Thank you very much,
3.3 As regards section 5,2 on Statistics, we have also heard the report on items 30, 35 and 36.  The Conference will vote later on item 30,
3.4 The Commission was unanimous in recommending the adoption of resolutions 5.21, 5.22 and
3.5 Those resolutions are adopted. Thank you.
3.6 The Commission recommended unanimously that the General Conference take note of the  Work Plan in paragraphs 5088 to 5109 and the staff establishment in paragraph 5110,
3.7 That is noted.
3.8 Here the Secretariat informs me that there is an omission and that we should also take note of  document 19 C/DR. 125 submitted by Austria. May we do so?
3.9 That draft resolution is noted.
3.10 We should also take note of the budget provision for section 5.2 as shown in paragraph 5084.
3.11 At this point we have completed Commission III's report on Chapter 5. Therefore we must  approve for Chapter 5 as a whole, the budget provision of $15,203, 800, it being understood that  this figure will be adjusted to reflect the inflation costs for 1975-1976,
3.12 That is approved. Thank you.
3.13 I give the floor to the Rapporteur.
4.1 Mr. STRASSER (Netherlands), Rapporteur of Programme Commission III:  Item 16.2 - Draft Programme and Budget (document 19 C/5, Part II)  Chapter 6 - Co-operation for Development and External Relations  Chapter 6A - General Provision for Operational Activities
208   For this part of the discussion the Commission had before it, in addition to the relevant text in  document 19 C/5, draft resolutions 19 C/DR, 102 and 19 C/DR. 102 rev. (submitted by Romania),
19 C/DR. 54 (submitted by India), 19 C/DR, 30 rev. (prepared by a working party).
4.2 The Assistant Director-General for Co-operation for Development and External Relations, in  introducing the Chapter, gave the reasons that had led the Director-General to create the new Sector,  and explained its role as a horizontal co-ordinator of substantive activities and as a catalyst for  operational action,
4,3 The general feeling of the Commission with regard to Chapter 6 was favourable, The new  structural arrangements were regarded as better suited for a balance between intellectual and  operational activities.
4.4 During discussion of section 6.1 - Country Approach and Regional Co-operation many speakers  voiced the desire to strengthen existing Regional Offices and gave support to offices of Unesco Rep-  resentatives, Members from the Asian region expressed the view that their region had not been  fairly treated, Some members expressed apprehension lest decentralization might to some extent  overlap with the activities of UNDP Resident Representatives and could lead to an increase in cost.  The fear was also expressed that decentralization might weaken central control and harm the coher-  ence of Unesco's activities. Several of the speakers who favoured decentralization also advocated  that Unesco's activities should not only be executed in a decentralized manner, but that Regional  Offices should be associated in programme formulation and evaluation, Moreover, the responsibi-  lities of Regional Offices should extend to activities financed from all sources of funds. The pro-  posal was alsomade that greater use should be made of local staff. Reference was made to the  usefulness of rotating staff between Headquarters and the regions,
4.5 Several members from Asia expressed the view that their continent had not received a pro-  portional share of Unesco's regional potential.
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Under section 6,1 the Commission recommended unanimously that the General  Conference adopt resolution 6,11.
5.2 I declare the resolution adopted.
5.3 We should then take note of the Work Plan in paragraphs 6005 to 6031a, the staff establishment  in paragraphs 6032 to 6036 and the budgetary provision in paragraph 6003,
5.4 Those paragraphs are accordingly noted.
5.5 The Commission also recommended adoption of the resolution based on document 19 C/DR.102  rev, 2, namely resolution 6,12, There was one abstention,
5.6 I declare that resolution adopted.
5.7 I now give the floor to the Rapporteur,
6.1 Mr. STRASSER (Netherlands), Rapporteur of Programme Commission III:  Under section 6,2 - Operational Support Services, the Commission had before it 19 C/DR. 54,  submitted by India. This draft resolution received general support and several amendments were  proposed. A working party produced a new version which was adopted and which appears in the  Commission's recommendations as resolution 6,22. As it deals with decentralization, this draft  resolution also has repercussions on section 6.1 which I have just presented. The discussion was  animated and showed the great interest of Member States in the subject of decentralization, In  recommending the resolution for your adoption, the Commission has asked me to make clear that  it had no intention of limiting the authority of the Director-General entrusted to him by the Consti-  tution for the execution of the Organization's programme.
6.2 Many speakers expressed appreciation of Unesco's fellowship programme. Attention was  drawn to the necessity of having more fellowships in the social sciences. Members also voiced  satisfaction that the Directory of Former Unesco Fellowship Holders would continue to be pub-  lished. The administration of fellowships and equipment procurement could be rationalized, in  the view of some members. Special reference was made to the efficient work of the Fellowships  Division discussed in the report of the Joint Inspection Unit at the 100th session of the Executive  Board,
6.3 With regard to paragraph 6053 of the Work Plan concerning studies in preparation for a draft  recommendation aimed at avoiding prolonged travel abroad by qualified staff, in other words what  is commonly known as the "brain drain'', doubts were expressed as to the drafting of an interna-  tional recommendation at this stage and multilateral agreements, and a new wording was proposed.
7. The PRESIDENT: |  Before I proceed, I would like to call on the distinguished delegate of Australia who has asked  for the floor,
28 8.1 Mr. PHILP (Australia): ; : y  Thank you, Mr, President. I find a very great deal of difficulty in connection with resoly-  tion 6.22, as indeed I did with 19 C/DR. 54 when it was presented to the Commission, Indeed,  Mr, President, my difficulties have grown with the days because the more I study the resolution  the more I believe it to be unconstitutional. Let me say at once that I am entirely sympathetic with  the spirit and the intent of the draft resolution as a whole, The Australian delegation has consist.  ently, and even forcefully, advocated decentralization of activities to Regional Offices and to Mem-  ber States. Let me emphasize that we still hold to this position, But, Mr. President, any such  decentralization must be consistent with the Constitution of Unesco and with the ever-pressing need  for consistency and efficiency in development and execution of the Medium-Term Plan and the pro-  gramme. Let me say also, Mr. President, that I am certain that the original authors of 19 C/DR, 54  would not disagree with that view, What I am about to say is by no means a criticism or adverse  reflection on their laudable efforts. My problems are essentially technical, but are of very great  importance indeed.
8.2 My concern is that, on analysis, the first paragraph of 19 C/DR. 54 - and let me be blunt, ag  many of my friends would expect me to be - the first paragraphis unconstitutional, self-contradictory,  and likely to lead to confusion rather than to efficiency.
8.3 Let me explain, Mr, President, I think that I shall need to ask you for permission to consult  either the Legal Adviser or the Director-General himself on the points I am about to make, The  constitutional problem is this. Programme formulation, as distinct from programme execution,  under Article VI, paragraph 3 (a), of the Constitution, is clearly the responsibility of the Director-  General alone. Let me quote to you what this paragraph says in the English text: the Director-  General "shall prepare for submission to the /Executive/ Board a draft programme of work forthe  Organization with corresponding budget estimates'. This power is delegated or given to him by the  Conference and no one, I would contend, can delegate a delegation, This point is reinforced by  Article V, Section B, paragraph 5 (a), of the Constitution referring to the functions of the Executive  Board, which (and I quote) "shall examine the programme of work for the Organization and corres-  ponding budget estimates submitted to it by the Director-General in accordance with paragraph 3  of Article VI and shall submit them ,.. to the General Conference", Clearly, this too, affirms  that the Director-General alone is responsible for the formulation of the programme and the budget  and if further emphasis were needed it is to be found in Article IV, Section B, paragraph 2, which  sets out the powers of the General Conference itself in respect to the formulation of the programme,
8.4 In other words, in the view of the Australian delegation, for us to adopt paragraph 1 of
19 C/DR, 54 would be to invite the Director-General to break the Constitution in a number of ways,  I have mentioned only three of them, but I think also that it would involve breaking the Constitution  in relation to the powers of the Director-General with regard to National Commissions and to non-  governmental organizations, neither of which types of body, under the Constitution, has any powers  whatsoever in relation to programme formulation,
8.5 I would also suggest, Mr. President, that this first paragraph is self-contradictory. The first  part of it tells the Director-General to break the Constitution; the second part of its tells him to  break the Constitution within the provisions of the Constitution. That is to say, in effect, Mr, Pre-  sident, that the paragraph invites the Director-General to make an omelette without breaking any  eggs.
8.6 It is the Australian delegation's opinion that in order to adopt the paragraph we would probably  have to change the Constitution in at least four and probably five different places, a long and diffi-  cult process including among other things considerable procedural delays on which we have had no  time to reflect. I would remind you, Mr, President, and I would remind delegations, that on each  of these changes we would need a number of very difficult procedural votes requiring at least a  two-thirds majority in each case.
8.7 Mr, President, Ihave some other quite serious objections to paragraph 1 as it stands and I  have one or two suggestions for overcoming them, but I should like to pause for a moment, with  your permission, to ask the Director-General or the Legal Adviser, through you, whether they  agree with the analysis I have just made and on the reply I am given will depend the tenor of the  remainder of my remarks, Thank you, Mr, President,
9. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. May I call on the Director-General to try and answer some of the  questions posed.
10.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL, -  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Je suis particulièrement reconnaissant à la déléga-  tion de l'Australie d'avoir soulevé les problèmes que pose ce projet de résolution quant à la forme  et au fond, Le délégué de l'Australie a parlé du fond, sur lequel je reviendrai tout à l'heure, mais  je peux lui dire d'ores et déjà que l'interprétation qu'il a donnée de l'Acte constitutif me paraît  être absolument correcte ; je passerai du reste moi-même en revue les dispositions de 1'Acte  constitutif qui sont pertinentes en la matière.
10.2 Je parlerai d'abord du problème de forme. Quand on examine ce projet de résolution, la  première chose que l'on constate, c'est qu'il ne s'adresse à personne. Est-il adressé aux Etats  membres, au Directeur général, au Conseil exécutif ? Impossible de le savoir. D'autre part, le  considérant est libellé comme suit : "Rappelant que, de l'avis général, de nouvelles mesures de  décentralisation devraient être prises par 1'Unesco'. Mais "de l'avis général" de qui ? Si c'est  l'avis général de la Conférence, ces mots sont inutiles. Il suffirait à la Conférence générale de  dire : ""Rappelant que de nouvelles mesures de décentralisation devraient être prises par 1'Unesco'.  Voilà une première observation sur la forme, mais qui touche également au fond.
10,3 J'en viens maintenant au problème de fond qu'a soulevé le délégué de l'Australie. En fait, le  projet de résolution pose des problèmes de fond et des problèmes de procédure. Il se situe en effet  à trois niveaux différents. D'abord, l'élaboration du programme. Le représentant de l'Australie a  eu parfaitement raison de faire remarquer qu'aux termes de l'article VI, 3 (a) de l'Acte constitutif,  c'est le Directeur général qui est chargé de préparer le programme de travail de l'Organisation :  [Le Directeur général / formule des propositions en vue des mesures à prendre par la Conférence  générale et le Conseil et prépare, afin de le soumettre au Conseil, un projet de programme de  travail pour l'Organisation, accompagné des prévisions budgétaires correspondantes''. En recom-  mandant que l'élaboration du programme soit de plus en plus confiée aux Etats membres, aux  commissions nationales et, le cas échéant, aux organisations non gouvernementales, le dispositif  du projet de résolution enfreint donc l'Acte constitutif, étant donné qu'il enlève au Directeur général  sa prérogative fondamentale.
10.4 Je dois ajouter que, bien entendu, le Directeur général n'élabore pas le Projet de programme  et de budget n'importe comment ; il l'élabore selon les directives données par la Conférence géné-  rale. Vous vous souviendrez à cet égard que dans mon Introduction au Projet de plan à moyen  terme pour 1977-1982, de même que dans mon Introduction au Projet de programme et de budget  pour 1977-1978, je me suis référé à plusieurs reprises aux directives que la Conférence générale  m'avait données. Je voudrais du reste rappeler à la Conférence générale qu'elle devra encore me  donner des directives à cette session-ci et fixer le calendrier de l'élaboration du prochain projet  de programme et de budget, c'est-à-dire du futur document C/5. Il va sans dire que le Directeur  général, tout en conservant la responsabilité de l'élaboration du programme, se conformera aussi  aux directives que la Conférence générale lui donnera quant à la consultation des diverses instances  associées à l'élaboration de ce programme. Comme vous le savez, pour élaborer les documents
19 C/4 et 19 C/5, j'ai adressé des questionnaires aux Etats membres ; vous connaissez les  résultats de cette consultation. Le Conseil exécutif a examiné les réponses aux questionnaires et  m'a donné de nouvelles directives ou fait des suggestions que je compte suivre, sous réserve des  directives que me donnera la Conférence générale elle-même. Je voudrais aussi rappeler, comme  l'a fait tout à l'heure le délégué de l'Australie, qu'aux termes de l'article IV, B. 2, la Conférence  générale "se prononce sur les programmes soumis par le Conseil exécutif". La mission du Direc-  teur général est donc d'élaborer le programme de travail de l'Organisation sur la base des direc-  tives de la Conférence générale et de le soumettre au Conseil exécutif, qui le transmet à la Confé-  rence générale avec ses propres observations ; c'est cette procédure qui a été suivie à l'occasion  de cette session, tant en ce qui concerne le document 19 C/4 que le document 19 C/5.
10.5 Reste maintenant la question de savoir comment les commissions nationales, ainsi que les  organisations non gouvernementales, sont associées non pas à l'élaboration même, mais au pro-  cessus d'élaboration du programme. Je crois que là encore, le projet de résolution va trop loin :  pour ce qui est des commissions nationales, en effet, l'article VII, paragraphes 1 et 2, de l'Acte  constitutif - que le dispositif du projet de résolution prétend respecter - dit ceci : "VII, 1 : Chaque  Etat membre prendra les dispositions appropriées à sa situation particulière pour associer aux  travaux de l'Organisation les principaux groupes nationaux qui s'intéressent aux problèmes d'édu-  cation, de recherche scientifique et de culture, de préférence en constituant une commission  nationale où seront représentés le gouvernement et ses différents groupes ; VII.2 : Dans les pays  où il en existe, les commissions nationales et les organismes nationaux de coopération remplissent  un rôle consultatif auprès de leur délégation nationale à la Conférence générale et auprès de leur  gouvernement pour tous les problèmes se rapportant à l'Organisation, Ils jouent le rôle d'organe  de liaison pour toutes les questions qui intéressent l'Organisation". L'Acte constitutif n'a donc con-  féré aucun pouvoir aux commissions nationales quant à l'élaboration du projet de programme et de  budget de l'Organisation. Le Directeur général s'adresse aux Etats membres eux-mêmes et ce sont  les Etats membres qui, éventuellement conseillés par les commissions nationales, indiquent leurs  propositions quant au contenu à donner au projet de programme et de budget et Epportent leurs con-  seils et leurs suggestions au Directeur général pour l'élaboration dudit projet, La encore, en vou-  lant confier aux commissions nationales l'élaboration des activités de l'Unesco comme, du reste,  leur exécution et même leur évaluation, le projet de résolution me paraît enfreindre l'acte constitutif,
10.6 Pour ce qui est des organisations internationales non gouvernementales, il suffit de se  reporter au paragraphe 4 de l'article XI de l'Acte constitutif, où est défini leur rôle, pour se  rendre compte que l'on veut leur confier des tâches qui outrepassent ce rôle. Ce paragraphe se  lit comme suit : "l'Organisation des Nations Unies pour l'éducation, la science et la culture peut  prendre toutes dispositions utiles pour faciliter les consultations et assurer la coopération avec  les organisations internationales privées s'occupant de questions qui entrent dans son domaine.  Elle peut les inviter à entreprendre certaines tâches déterminées rentrant dans leur compétence.  Cette coopération peut également prendre la forme d'une participation appropriée de représentants  desdites organisations aux travaux de comités consultatifs créés par la Conférence générale .
28 Vous voyez qu'ici non plus 1'Acte constitutif n'attribue aux organisations non gouvernementales  aucune prérogative particulière quant à l'élaboration du programme et budget. Mais vous savez  aussi qu'en même temps que les Etats membres, nous consultons les organisations non gouverne-  mentales et que, comme je le rappelle dans mes Introductions aux documents 19 C/4 et 19 C/5,  nous tenons parfois le plus grand compte des suggestions que nous font ces organisations. Toute-  fois, il faut bien voir qu'en acceptant ces suggestions, le Directeur général les reprend en fait à  son compte, car c'est lui qui a la responsabilité d'élaborer le programme et budget et de le sou-  mettre à l'examen du Conseil exécutif avant de le transmettre à la Conférence générale. Je  m'empresse de préciser que je tiens le Conseil exécutif dûment informé des suggestions des orga-  nisations non gouvernementales et de la manière dont elles sont prises en considération dans le  processus d'élaboration du projet de programme et de budget, y compris au stade où le contenu dy  document C/5 est définitivement arrêté.
10.7 Mais, Monsieur le Président, si l'on examine les projets de résolution qui suivent le projet  de résolution 6.22 dans le rapport de la Commission, l'on remarque que la plupart des problèmes  qui viennent d'être évoqués à propos des organisations non gouvernementales, ainsi d'ailleurs que  des commissions nationales, se trouvent résolus par ces résolutions. Je vous demande de vous  reporter notamment au projet de résolution 6. 31 que vous n'avez pas encore examiné, C'est ainsi  qu'à l'alinéa (ii) de ce projet de résolution, le Directeur général est invité l'à développer la coopé-  ration entrel'Unesco et les organisations internationales non gouvernementales compétentes, enles  associant de manière suivie à l'élaboration et à l'exécution du programme". Cela ne présente  aucune difficulté pour le Secrétariat qui a toujours associé les organisations non gouvernementales  à ses travaux et qui pourra, je crois, continuer de le faire. D'autre part, au paragraphe 3 du  projet de résolution 6, 32, le Directeur général est prié ""de confier par contrat aux organisations  internationales non gouvernementales compétentes, dans la mesure compatible avec une exécution  efficace du programme, des tâches précises en vue de l'exécution de certaines activités approuvées  par la Conférence générale''. Voilà donc deux cas dans lesquels les organisations non gouverne-  mentales seront associées au travail du Secrétariat tant au stade de la préparation qu'à celui de  l'exécution du programme.
10.8 Quant aux commissions nationales, vous trouverez dans le projet de résolution 6.41, au  paragraphe 3 (a) notamment, des références à leur rôle et à la coopération qui devrait s'instaurer  avec elles.
10.9 En bref, Monsieur le Président, je voudrais répéter, comme l'a dit le délégué de  l'Australie, qu'en ce qui concerne tant l'élaboration que l'exécution et l'évaluation des activités  de l'Unesco, le paragraphe 1 du dispositif du projet de résolution 6.22 est manifestement en con-  tradiction avec l'Acte constitutif.
10.10 Quant au paragraphe 2 du dispositif du projet de résolution, selon lequel "les mutations du  personnel du Siège devraient être accrues'', je dirai tout de suite qu'on ne mute pas du personnel  sans raison valable : on mute du personnel en vue d'exécuter des tâches précises. Bien entendu,  si les activités exécutées par les bureaux régionaux nécessitaient des mutations de personnel, le  Directeur général prendrait lui-même les mesures nécessaires. Ce paragraphe de la résolution me  paraît donc inutile.
10.11 En ce qui concerne le paragraphe 3, c'est encore une violation flagrante de l'Acte consti-  tutif que de demander que "de nouveaux pouvoirs soient délégués aux bureaux et aux centres régio-  naux en ce qui concerne les projets et les activités relevant du budget ordinaire ou financés par  des sources extrabudgétaires, de manière qu'ils aient des responsabilités et une autorité suffisante  dans leur domaine de compétence pour prendre des décisions concernant les programmes de  l'Unesco''. Les bureaux régionaux n'ont aucun pouvoir et leur en donner constituerait non seule-  ment une violation de l'Acte constitutif, mais créerait un précédent extrêmement dangereux pour  l'Organisation, Plusieurs délégués ont eu raison de dire que, ce faisant, on risquerait de faire  des bureaux régionaux des entités distinctes du Secrétariat échappant même à l'autorité du Direc-  teur général auquel 1'Acte constitutif ne confère d'ailleurs pas les pouvoirs que l'on veut donner  aux bureaux régionaux, Ceux-ci ne sont, en fait, que des services semblables à ceux du Siège,  c'est-à-dire qu'ils exécutent, sur la base des directives données par le Directeur général et sous  sa responsabilité, des projets et des programmes approuvés par la Conférence générale. Le jour  où les bureaux régionaux auront des pouvoirs, vous ne pourrez plus demander au Directeur général  de vous rendre compte de l'exécution du programme, parce que vous lui aurez enlevé une partie  de son autorité à cet égard.
10.12 Quant au paragraphe 4 du dispositif, suivant lequel "pour le recrutement d' experts et de  consultants pour la mise en oeuvre de projets de l'Unesco dans une région, les ressources qu'offre  à cet égard la région elle-même / devraient être / utilisées en priorité", il ne me paraît soulever  aucune difficulté, C'est là une disposition dont l'application se situerait dans le cadre de l'exécu-  tion du programme et le Directeur général est prêt, si la Conférence générale vote cette partie de  la résolution, à y donner suite dans toute la mesure du possible, compte tenu toutefois des choix  faits par les Etats membres eux-mêmes. Je m'explique. Les projets ne sont pas exécutés dans  des conditions déterminées par le seul Directeur général : les activités opérationnelles sont mises  en oeuvre sur la base des décisions prises par les Etats membres intéressés. Si ceux-ci souhaitent  que telle ou telle composante du projet soit renforcée, le Directeur général est toujours disposé
212   à se rallier à leur point de vue, étant donné qu'en dernière analyse les projets visent à leur per-  mettre de créer des infrastructures ou de se doter des moyens de développer l'éducation, la  science, et la culture ou l'information. ;
10.13 En conclusion, Monsieur le Président, je pense que la formulation de ce projet de résolu-  tion devrait être modifiée, parce qu'il faudrait dire à qui elle est adressée. D'autre part, je con-  sidère que les paragraphes 1 et 3 du dispositif sont anticonstitutionnels et risquent de créer une  grande confusion sans résoudre les vrais problèmes de la décentralisation. J'ai déjà dit, à l'occa-  sion du débat général, que je suis moi-même vivement préoccupé par la question de la décentrali-  sation et que j'ai l'intention de renforcer les activités de l'Organisation dans les régions dans la  mesure où cela n'est pas préjudiciable à la bonne exécution du programme. Je vous remercie.
11. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Director-General for his explanation, and call upon the distinguished delegate of  Yugoslavia.
12, Mr. LUKOVAC (Yugoslavia):  Thank you, Mr. President. Ihave just a small qualification to make as I was presiding over  the meeting when this resolution, submitted by a group of Member States, was recommended by  the Commission for adoption by the Conference. The qualification concerns the question to whom  this resolution is addressed, I think that four words are omitted from the text of this resolution,  because the Commission decided at its meeting that this resolution should be addressed to the  Director-General. So, after "recommends'' the words "to the Director-General'"', should be in-  serted, Thank you very much,
13. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, May I call on the distinguished delegate of Australia,
14,1 Mr. PHILP (Australia):  Thank you, Mr, President, May I briefly conclude what I was saying when I asked the Director-  General for his advice, I should like, first, obviously enough, to thank the Director-General for  his confirmation: resolution 6.22, like 19 C/DR. 54 before us, is in fact unconstitutional, I dohave  one other concern about this total resolution, which is this: we are, at this Conference, in the pro-  cess of approving an exciting, innovatory Medium-Term Plan, The Director-General's task is now  to formulate and develop biennial programmes on the basis of this Plan, In this task, as he has  indicated very clearly, he will consult Member States by the various methods he has mentioned -  questionnaires, discussions, invitations to Member States for suggested modifications and so on -  but the final responsibility for the formulation of this programme must be his. To suggest that  individual Member States, other than through suggestions to the Director-General, much less non-  governmental organizations, should formulate the programme as distinct from proposing elements  of that formulation, would be to place the Director-General in an impossible, even an intolerable,  situation, He would be, if I may use an analogy, in the position of an architect who has designed  a great house and is then required to subcontract not merely the building of the rooms, but the re-  designing of those rooms. The result, Mr, President, may I suggest, would be like one of those  fairy tale castles which were built in Germany early last century - beautiful to look at, but imposs-  ible to live in, To talk of a Medium-Term Plan under such circumstances is plainly a misnomer,  and even a nonsense,
14,2 Mr. President, it seems to me that at this stage there are perhaps four possibilities open to  us, and I put these in increasing order of attractiveness to me, the least attractive first. The first  is obviously enough to amend the Constitution in order to have resolution 6.22 adopted, This, of  course, would require six months' notice to Member States and could not be implemented before  the twentieth session of the General Conference, The second possibility is for Australia or some  other Member State to move a major amendment to resolution 6.22 to delete, for example para-  graphs 1 and 3, which are unconstitutional, as the Director-General says, All the other issues  that relate to those are taken care of in later resolutions in the document before us. The third  possibility, which does appeal to me, is for the original co-sponsors of 19 C/DR. 54 themselves  to withdraw the relevant sections of the resolution, The fourth possibility, of course, is to vote  now on the assumption that most delegations would accept that the draft resolution is unconstitu-  tional and would vote against it, Plainly, either the third or fourth possibilities - withdrawal by  the co-sponsors, or immediate voting - would save a great deal of time, and more important, would  I think reflect what I feel is the original intent of the Commission, i,e. to support the Director-  General's attempts at decentralization, Thank you very much, Mr. President.
15, The PRESIDENT: =,  I thank the distinguished delegate of Australia and call upon the distinguished delegate of Egypt.  (roe) JS) Ge dl gess p35 AN edly  med Ls Jie sed I) pli V ange Joby Gone is nee Bb) $m de IS  das cal 6 ally ob 135) ole GEL Jassl aol. se Es, GB! i Lelie pled! paul  Sema er LALA ep Er ESS A CR ERA LR  ss cipal) lallly Lao Il Jy dl gel oF fe Lys Bla) Linas is ol pâte Ve TE se
28 HN Il Us li Seid) pal 55 + ST 5 al BBA EE AL y. DL)  it «Bad Lad) Bal) ibid GL Va JlaJl 50 LS 6 Ab] 0 le) Lys ed € As AB le DOTE  pal 1509 Ls oi li Libé BI p le if Led Bens) oll spi 0 pubs SU cid La) da allah,  jus i) yy Scull Batty LA. Le Ly puis i) aba Ga ly ABUS 0 Je Busy Bil, a)  Labo US, 5 of mse hbéill Lis Jat 5 457 dla 0% of pds Whe 5h 31 3a, WL cil,  lized im ¥1 3, 0 NN 55 Lily ap M es py » pladl rad! din eB YN Stb € pLadl publ i 5  UPON] DPUSRPRN VS + L JA ICON | CORTE SLES ll angl] RC Lan
(16) Mr. EL-WAKIL (Egypt) (Translation from the Arabic): , ! . |  Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, after the most careful consideration, having listened to the  distinguished delegate of Australia and the Director-General, and on the basis of my own instincts as a  lawyer, I do feel some concern with regard to paragraphs 1 and 3 of this recommendation. Paragraph 1  in its present formulation is undoubtedly inconsistent with Unesco's Constitution, and the words "be  increasingly entrusted'' cannot be retained as they stand. The most that Member States and National  Commissions can be asked to do is simply to advise. I feel even more unhappy about paragraph 3. The  fact is that Unesco as at present constituted does not have independent regional departments or regional  committees, as is the case, for example, with the World Health Organization (WHO). The Constitution  of that organization does provide for a system of regional committees with regional general conferences  and regional offices to serve them - a natural arrangement given to the nature of the organization and the  regional character of some of its activities. In the case of Unesco, however, whichis primarily character-  ized by its universality, while decentralization is understandable in the matter of representation, planning  itself must be centralized and emanate from this General Conference, with the Regional Offices represent-  ing the Director-General, We approve of decentralization but reject the idea of independent regional  management implied in paragraph 3 of this recommendation, which is wholly unconstitutional, Thank you,  Mr, President.
17, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Egypt and call upon the distinguished delegate of New  Zealand,
18,1 Mr, TURNOVSKY (New Zealand):  Mr. President, I think the intention of the resolution is quite clear; it calls for an increasing  involvement of Member States and National Commissions in policy formulation and in the execution  of the Work Plan and also for greater decentralization, all of which are aims that are very dear to  the hearts of the New Zealand delegation,
18,2 At the same time it has been clearly established by what the Director-General and the dis-  tinguished delegates of Egypt and Australia have said, that in its present form the resolution is  unconstitutional and I would suggest the fifth course of action, Mr, President, if it is acceptable  to you, and that is to reformulate this resolution in a form which will make it constitutional. This  would involve clearly inviting the Director-General to increasingly consult National Commissions  etc, , or words to this effect, always recognizing the overriding powers of the Director-General  in these matters, If it were acceptable to you, my delegation, together perhaps with the originators  of the text, the Indian delegation, and possibly also the delegations of Australia and Egypt, would  happily co-operate in finding a formulation which would be acceptable and which would be constitu-  tional, This could well involve deferring the further consideration of this resolution until a later  meeting, If this were acceptable we would be very pleased indeed. Thank you.
19, The PRESIDENT:  Ï thank the distinguished delegate of New Zealand and call upon the distinguished delegate of  India,
20,1 Mr. DAYAL (India):  Thank you, Mr, President, The original text of 19 C/DR. 54 which was tabled by the Indian  delegation had a somewhat different formulation in regard both to paragraph 1 and to paragraph 3.  Paragraph 5 of the Note by the Director-General on this draft resolution in the form in which it  was submitted by India says that the "Director-General has no objection to this draft resolution”,  It is clear, therefore, that, in the form in which it had been submitted by the Indian delegation,
19 C/DR. 54 was quite acceptable to the Director-General,
20,2 Now in the Commission certain changes were effected, in particular by adding to the original  paragraph 1 words regarding formulation and also a reference to non-governmental organizations  that did not appear in our original draft.
20.3 So far as paragraph 3 is concerned there were some additions in regard to regular budget  and extra-budgetary projects. So far as my delegation is concerned we would, of course, be happy  enough if we were to go back to the original resolution - which, as the Director-General's comment  on that resolution indicates, was perfectly acceptable and constitutional - with certain very minor  changes.
20,4 During the debate in Commission many speakers expressed the desire to meet the purposes  which we also originally had in mind and some of the speakers wanted to enlarge the scope of the  resolution still further, It is also obvious, however, from what the Director-General has said
214   that, in their present form, these additions are not constitutional, Therefore I would like to sup -  port the suggestion made just now by the distinguished delegate of New Zealand that we might be  given an opportunity to make such amendments as are necessary to make this resolution constitu-  tional while still reflecting the very widespread desire on the part of the vast majority of the  membership of Programme Commission III to have a resolution of this character, Thank you.
21,1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of India, As he has expressed himself in favour of amend-  ing the text of the resolution, there would be no objection to referring it to a committee or working  group which would later resubmit the resolution to the plenary. The members of the redrafting  group will be the delegates of New Zealand, India and Egypt who may nominate any other person  who may be of assistance to them,
21.2 This concerns only draft resolution 6,22; resolution 6.21, which was unanimously recommen-  ded by the Commission for adoption, is not affected. I therefore put resolution 6,21 to the Confer-  ence, As there is no objection, I declare resolution 6,21 adopted,
21,3 The delegate of Egypt has the floor.  : (70 ) JS plums pS) ald yy
(22) Mr. EL-WAKIL (Egypt) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr, President. I only asked for the floor to suggest including the distinguished delegate  of Australia in the working group. Thank you.
23, The PRESIDENT:  As I said, the delegates of New Zealand, India and Egypt are entirely at liberty to call upon  any other person whom they think will be of substantial assistance to them, There is therefore no  objection to the inclusion of the delegate of Australia, The delegate of the Federal Republic of  Germany has the floor.
24, Mr, PETERSEN (Federal Republic of Germany):  Thank you, Mr, President. I had the intention to make the same proposal as the honourable  delegate of Egypt, namely to include the delegate of Australia in this drafting group. Thank you,  Mr, President,
25.1 The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Australia is therefore included.
25,2 We are recommended to take note of the Work Planinparagraphs 6039-6060 in document 19 C/5,  of the staff establishment in paragraphs 6061-6063 and of the budget provision for section 6.2 in  paragraph 6037, it being understood that the sum mentioned in that paragraph will be adjusted to  reflect inflation costs for 1975-1976,
25.3 These paragraphs are duly noted.
26.1 Mr, STRASSER (Netherlands), Rapporteur of Programme Commission III:  Item 37 - Sexennial Report by the Executive Board to the General Conference on the contribu-  tion made to Unesco's activities by international non-governmental organizations in  categories A and B (document 19 C/38)  Item 38 - Report by the Director-General on changes in the classification of international  non-governmental organizations admitted to the various categories of relationship  with Unesco (document 19 C/39)
26.2 I shall now deal jointly with section 6.3 - Co-operation with international governmental and  non-governmental organizations and programmes, on the one hand, and with items 37 and 38 on  the other hand, On the whole, the work of the non-governmental organizations was appreciated,  Their activities were regarded as complementing those of the Organization, providing it with a  world-wide network of intellectual support in the fields of Unesco's competence. For the execu-  tion of certain aspects of the programme, non-governmental organizations were regarded as an  essential prerequisite, and attention was drawn to the fact that some non-governmental organiza-  tions had been founded by Unesco.
26,3 Some members, though not casting doubt on the usefulness of non-governmental organizations,  none the less felt that they should not have priority over Member States in the distribution of funds.  Mention was made of the need for greater geographical coverage, particularly in relation to develop-  ing countries, Some speakers urged that non-governmental organizations should act in conformity  with decisions of the General Conference. Other speakers, however, stressed that non-governmental  organizations should enjoy complete autonomy because of their non-governmental character, Some  of the discussion bore on the respective advantages of subventions or of contractual arrangements  with non-governmental organizations. It was recognized that each of these methods corresponded
28 to a specific need and was different in nature, Some governments expressed preference for one,  some for the other method. Apprehension was expressed by some delegations that the reduction  of subventions might jeopardize the continued existence of certain non-governmental organizationg  because a minimum for fixed costs had to be assured. Moreover, without such assurance, the  geographical extension of non-governmental organizations, advocated by many members, wouldbe  difficult,
26.4 Some amendments were proposed to the draft resolution in Part IV of document 19 C/38, The  adoption of the resolution was recommended unanimously, with five abstentions. The Commission  also recommended that the General Conference take note of the Director-General's report in docy-  ment 19 C/39.
27,1 The PRESIDENT:  For section 6.3 the Commission's recommendations to adopt resolutions 6.31 and 6,32 were  unanimous. Does the Conference agree?
27.2 These two resolutions are adopted.
27,3 The Rapporteur also covered items 37 and 38 of the agenda, The Conference will be asked  to vote on these later.
27.4 We are now called on to take note of the Work Plan in paragraphs 6067 to 6074, the staff  establishment in paragraphs 6077 to 6081 and the budgetary provision in paragraph 6064 of docu-  ment 19 C/5. Does the meeting agree?
27.5 The contents of these paragraphs are noted.
27.6 The Rapporteur has the floor to continue with section 6,4 - Co-operation with National  Commissions.
28.1 Mr. STRASSER (Netherlands), Rapporteur of Programme Commission III:  The Commission examined section 6,4 - Co-operation with National Commissions, It was  agreed that proposed resolution 6,41, as set out in document 19 C/124, was to be examined and  voted upon together with the draft resolution contained in document 19 C/DR. 30 (submitted by India),
28,2 The representative of the Director-General stated that the system of National Commissions  was unique to Unesco within the United Nations family. In accordance with Article VII of the Cons-  titution of the Organization, almost all Member States had today established their National  Commissions.
28.3 The Commission opened a discussion on the subject in which 45 speakers took the floor. The  main principles and the general orientation of the programme in the field of co-operation with  National Commissions which appear in Chapter 11 of the Medium-Term Plan (document 19 C/4),  were found satisfactory. Four themes emerged from the discussion: firstly, the importance of  the inter-regional meetings of Secretaries of National Commissions (Ljubljana "I" and "II');  secondly, the role of National Commissions in evaluating Unesco's activities; thirdly, the import-  ance of close daily co-operation between the National Commissions and the Secretariat; and finally,  the desirability of providing special help and assistance to newly formed National Commissions, or  those whose activities were insufficiently developed.
28.4 As regards the Draft Programme and Budget for 1977-1978, the programme proposed was  generally received with satisfaction,
28.5 Particular attention was given to decentralizing the activities of Unesco through National  Commissions and non-governmental organizations as well as to the need for improving consulta-  tion between National Commissions anu the Secretariat on programme planning and implementa-  tion, It was noted that the Director-General intends to increase the number of contracts with  National Commissions, andthat some 183 contracts had been concluded with about 73 different National  Commissions during the 1975-1976 biennium,
28.6 The importance of regional and subregional co-operation was underlined, Several speakers  expressed their interest in the Seventh Regional Conference of European National Commissions to  be held in 1977,
28.7 Assistance to National Commissions under the Participation Programme was given much  attention, In paragraph 6098 of document 19 C/5, an omission was noted and the following sub-  paragraph (iv) will be inserted:  "The translation, adaptation and publication, either directly by the Commissions or with  outside help, of Unesco publications and documents in languages other than English and  French, and the production of their own publications",
28.8 The offer of the delegate of Spain to translate the proposed "Guide to National Commissions”  into Spanish was received with gratitude,
28.9 Two new proposals were made, The first suggested a survey of the fields of activity in which  National Commissions are active, The other proposal concerned the introduction of an "early  warning system" for National Commissions to inform them of important changes and events in the  calendar of work of the Organization, for instance, concerning the dispatch to Member States of  the questionnaire on the future programme or documents C/4 and C/5,
28,10 Following the discussion, the Chairman constituted two working groups to redraft, respec-  tively, the draft resolution contained in document 19 C/DR. 30 and proposed resolution 6.41 in the  light of the amendments proposed. Both resolutions, as amended, were unanimously recommended  by the Commission for adoption by the General Conference,
29, The PRESIDENT:  The Director-General would like to say a word concerning the proposed resolution 6, 41,
30. Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL, -  Monsieur le Président, je m'excuse de devoir prendre a nouveau la parole, mais je pense que  le projet de résolution qui vous est soumis et sur lequel la Conférence générale est appelée a se  prononcer, a une importance trop grande pour que je ne sois pas amené a présenter un certain  nombre de remarques. Aux termes du paragraphe 4 (a) du dispositif de ce projet de résolution, le  Directeur général serait autorisé à "aider, par tous les moyens possibles, a l'établissement et au  développement des commissions nationales afin d'accroître l'efficacité avec laquelle elles exercent  leurs fonctions d'organes de consultation, de liaison, d'exécution et d'information, et d'accroître  leur participation à l'élaboration, l'exécution et l'évaluation des programmes de l'Unesco!'. Je n'ai  pas d'observations à faire sur le contenu même de cette disposition, mais je souhaiterais seule-  ment que vous ajoutiez, après le mot "aider', les mots "à la demande des Etats membres'', le  Directeur général ne pouvant se substituer aux Etats membres ni agir sans leur en référer. Les  commissions nationales sont en effet des organes consultatifs créés par les Etats membres pour  les conseiller, et le Directeur général ne peut donc entretenir directement avec elles des relations  qui n'empruntent pas la voie habituelle. Or, il semble que ce que l'on me demande dans le projet  de résolution reviendrait à agir par-dessus la tête des Etats membres, Je vous remercie, Monsieur  le Président.
31.1 The PRESIDENT:  The Conference has heard the wish expressed by the Director-General, with regard to the  proposed resolution 6,41, This would mean amending the resolution to state that any action taken  by the Director-General to assist in the establishment of National Commissions should be at the  request of the Member States concerned,
31,2 You will note that the Commission recommended the unanimous adoption of resolution 6, 41  as amended, Is it now the wish of the Conference to adopt the resolution as further amended to  take account of the Director-General's wish?
31.3 Resolution 6,41 thus amended is adopted.
31,4 The Commission's recommendation that resolution 6,42 based on document 19 C/DR. 30 rev.  be adopted was also unanimous. Does the meeting agree?
31,5 The resolution is adopted.
31,6 For the Commission's recommendation concerning the Work Plan, staff establishment and  budget for this section, I must refer the Conference to the last item of document 19 C/124 Add, in  which the Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference take note of the  Work Plan in paragraphs 6084 to 6098, of the staff establishment in paragraph 6099 and of the bud-  get in paragraph 6082 of document 19 C/5. Does the Conference agree?
31.7 These paragraphs are noted.
31.8 The Director-General would like to say a word on resolution 6, 42,
32.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL, -  Monsieur le Président, j'ai demandé la parole à propos de la résolution 6.42 qui vient d'être  adoptée, pour attirer l'attention de la Conférence générale sur le troisième alinéa du dispositif,  où le Directeur général est invité à "faire en sorte que dans les futurs programmes et budgets les  recommandations des réunions et conférences /Tdes commissions nationales’] touchant les divers  secteurs d'activité de l'Unesco se reflètent aussi largement que possible dans les projets de réso-  lutions et les plans de travail afférents à chaque secteur". Le délégué de l'Australie a eu raison  de faire remarquer tout à l'heure que, pour l'élaboration des programmes et budgets futurs, il  faut me donner des directives précises dans le cadre du Plan à moyen terme. Si les commissions  nationales tenaient des réunions dont les recommandations n'étaient pas conformes à ce plan, la  question se poserait pour le Directeur général de savoir ce qu'il devrait faire. En effet, dans  l'alinéa en question, vous semblez transférer aux commissions nationales le pouvoir de décider  du contenu de certains éléments du programme et budget de l'Organisation ; vous ne donnez même  pas au Directeur général la latitude d'étudier les moyens de tenir compte, dans l'élaboration des  programmes et budgets, des recommandations des réunions des commissions. Je me trouverai
28 donc inévitablement dans une situation difficile en cas de contradiction entre les décisions de la  Conférence générale quant au contenu du Plan a moyen terme et les recommandations des commis  sions. Je tiens a souligner qu'en pareil cas je suivrai les décisions de la Conférence générale  plutôt que les recommandations des commissions nationales.
32.2 Je note aussi que la résolution se réfère aux divers secteurs d'activité de l'Unesco. Or vous  allez vous pencher sur la structure à donner au prochain programme et budget de l'Organisation  et je ne suis pas certain que cette structure restera une structure sectorielle. La disposition que  vous venez d'adopter s'applique donc à la situation actuelle et non à la situation qui sera éventuel-  lement celle de demain, c'est-à-dire qu'elle ne tient pas compte des modifications qui pourront  être apportées au contenu du document C/5 du fait de l'introduction de la programmation par  objectifs. Monsieur le Président, je voudrais que la Conférence générale, malgré la décision  qu'elle vient de prendre, tienne compte de mes observations, étant donné que dans les rapports que  je présenterai à l'avenir sur l'exécution du programme ou dans mes propositions relatives aux  programmes futurs, je serai amené, je le répète, au cas où il y aurait contradiction entre cette  disposition de la résolution 6.42 et les directives de la Conférence générale relatives au Plan à  moyen terme, à me conformer à ces directives plutôt qu'à ladite disposition, Je vous remercie,
33.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Director-General for his remarks. They will be noted by the General Conference,
33,2 I give the floor once again to the Rapporteur to continue with section 6,5 - Participation  Programme,
34, Mr. STRASSER (Netherlands), Rapporteur of Programme Commission III:  Mr. President, I shall now deal with section 6,5 - Participation Programme, There appeared  to be general agreement that this programme was of capital importance for the work of the Organ-  ization, More funds were requested. Approval was expressed of the new policy of applying more  flexible criteria and authorizing a higher ceiling for requests. Some criticism was expressed  regarding the limitation imposed on national requests in order to satisfy a greater number of  regional requests. The Assistant Director-General for Co-operation for Development and External  Relations drew attention to the overall limits of the Participation Programme, Several Member  States suggested that procedures could be improved if circular letters announcing the conditions  of the Participation Programme could be sent earlier so as to enable Member States to integrate  the Participation Programme into their national plans, The Assistant Director-General promised  to look into this question, Thank you, Mr, President,
35.1 The PRESIDENT:  The Commission's recommendation concerning resolution 6.51 was unanimous. May we now  adopt it?
35.2 The resolution is adopted.
35.3 We are now asked to take note of the corresponding Work Plan which is contained in para-  graphs 6102 to 6104 of document 19 C/5. The Commission's recommendations have unfortunately been  omitted in the English version of document 19 C/124, but they are included in the other languages,
35.4 The Work Plan is adopted.
35.5 With regard to section 6,6 - Office of the Assistant Director-General, the Commission  recommends that the Conference take note of the staff establishment indicated in paragraphs 6109  to 6112 and the budgetary provision in paragraph 6108.
35,6 The content of these paragraphs is noted,
35.7 It is further recommended that the Conference approved the budget of $13,257, 000 for Chap-  ter 6 as a whole, it being understood that this figure will be adjusted to reflect the inflation costs  of 1975-1976.
35,8 The budget for this chapter is approved,
35.9 For Chapter 6 A - General Provision for Operational Activities, I once again call upon the  Rapporteur to continue with his report.
36. Mr, STRASSER (Netherlands), Rapporteur of Programme Commission III:  In Chapter 6 A, a General Provision for Operational Activities is proposed. While the vote  showed an overwhelming majority in favour of this proposal, which the Director-General described  as an "experiment", some speakers voiced misgivings. In particular it was questioned whether  Unesco's financial regulations were sufficiently broad to accommodate contingencies such as those  envisaged here. It was also felt that this could interfere with the operational practices of the  United Nations Development Programme. Thank you, Mr. President,
37.1 The PRESIDENT:  Resolution 6.71 was recommended for adoption by 51 votes to 2, with 11 abstentions, Does  any delegation wish to speak? it
37.2 The resolution is adopted.
37.3 The delegate of Canada has the floor,
38.1 M. BEAULNE (Canada). -  Monsieur le Président, en commission, le Canada a voté contre cette disposition. Mais je  n'aurais pas voulu qu'enpléniére un vote négatif donne lieu à quelque équivoque ou quelque ambigufté  que ce soit et puisse être interprété comme marquant l'absence de confiance du Canada dans le  Directeur général. Aussi me suis-je abstenu.
38.2 Je tiens néanmoins à souligner que si j'avais des réserves à formuler, c'est parce que je  doute que l'Unesco doive se substituer aux institutions des Nations Unies qui ont compétence pour  procurer une aide technique aux Etats membres. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
39.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Canada and assure him that his remarks will be noted in  the record.
39.2 We are now asked to take note of the Work Plan contained in paragraphs 6116 to 6121 of docu-  ment 19 C/5, as recommended by the Commission,
39.3 The Work Plan is noted.
39.4 The Commission recommends, unanimously, that the General Conference approve the budget-  ary provision for Chapter 6 A (paragraph 6114 of document 19 C/5) it being understood that this fig-  ure will be adjusted to reflect the inflation costs for the years 1975-1976. Does the Conference  approve this provision?
39,5 It is duly approved.
39.6 The Rapporteur has already covered item 30 in his oral report, so the Conference need only  adopt the recommendation which is contained in document 19 C/124, Annex I. The Commission  recommended, by 56 votes to 7, with 12 abstentions, that the Conference adopt this recommenda-  tion, Does any delegation wish to speak on this subject?
39.7 The delegate of Japan has the floor.
40, Mr. HIRONAGA (Japan):  Thank you, Mr, President. The Japanese delegation is going to vote in favour of the adoption  of this draft recommendation, However, our support does not necessarily mean that we are in a  position to implement every step recommended therein, These are several items which are not  acceptable to Japan under the present circumstances prevailing in my country. We hope that, in  the course of the application of the recommendation the Director-General will continue to study the  practicable applicability of the items of the recommendation on which many delegations, including  my own, raised questions during the debate in Programme Commission III, Thank you,  Mr, President.
41.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Japan for the views he has expressed.
41,2 May I take it that the recommendation is acceptable to the General Conference?
41,3 The recommendation is adopted.
41,4 I now give the floor once more to the Rapporteur for item 31.
42,1 Mr. STRASSER (Netherlands), Rapporteur of Programme Commission III:  Item 31 - Draft recommendation onthe legal protection of translators and translations  and the practical means to improve the status of translators (document 19 C/30)  The Commission did not take long to reach a decision on this item, Clearly, the more important  problems likely to be encountered were resolved in the preparatory stages. Following the introduc-  tion of document 19 C/30 by the Director-General's representative, nine speakers took the floor.  The Commission then recommended adoption of the recommendation, by 44 votes to one, with one  abstention,
42,2 Some delegations had, however, reserved the position of their governments with respect to  certain of the provisions, The Federal Republic of Germany objected to the text on constitutional  and other grounds. Norway also expressed the view that some of the provisions would be difficult
28 to apply in Norway. Japan submitted a reservation on applying all the provisions of the recommen.  dation, in particular paragraphs 4 and 5, When the text was voted chapter by chapter, one delega-  tion voted against Chapter I, two against Chapter II, and one against Chapter III. And there were  a small number of abstentions for all seven chapters, as well as for the introduction, Thank you,  Mr. President,
43,1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, The Commission recommended adoption by 44 votes to one, with one  abstention.
43,2 The delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany has the floor.
44,1 Mr. PETERSEN (Federal Republic of Germany):  Thank you, Mr. President, I am grateful to the Rapporteur for mentioning the reasons why  the Federal Republic of Germany voted against the recommendation in the Commission, Mr, Pre.  sident, I do not ask for a vote now in plenary but I should like the record to show that if a vote had  been taken the Federal Republic of Germany would have abstained.
44,2 In fact, our concern is of a legal nature. The Government of the Federal Republic of Germany  is fully aware of the extremely important role played by translators in promoting co-operation  among States and cultural exchanges between peoples. It shares the view that, in many respects,  the working conditions of translators are in need of improvement, However, we would certainly  have legal difficulties in implementing the recommendation, In the first place the Constitution of  my country guarantees freedom of association and the Federal Government must not exercise any  influence in this matter. We also had a few other misgivings; for example, in our view, if this  recommendation were applied, translators would enjoy more extensive rights than the authors of  original works themselves. Thank you very much, Mr, President,
45,1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany and assure him that his  reservation will be recorded.
45,2 Does the Conference now wish to accept the recommendation?
45,3 The recommendation as contained in Annex II of document 19 C/124 is adopted.
45,4 Items 37 and 38 have already been covered by the Rapporteur, I would point out that while  the Commission recommended the adoption of the draft resolution shown under item 37 in docu-  ment 19 C/124, there were 5 abstentions in the Commission, I would therefore ask whether any  delegation would like to speak,
45,5 The delegate of France has the floor,
46.1 M. THOMAS (France). -  Monsieur le Président, ma délégation voudrait faire deux observations en ce qui concerne  cette résolution.
46.2 La première est de pure forme, et il se peut même qu'elle ne vise que le texte français. Le  paragraphe 7 renferme une phrase incohérente, qui me semble provenir de la confusion entre deux  rédactions successives. Je suppose qu'il faut lire : "Demande que la politique des contrats ... soit  poursuivie et développée ...".
46.3 La seconde remarque concerne le paragraphe 13 de la résolution. On invite le Directeur  général "'à associer encore plus étroitement les organisations internationales non gouvernemen-  tales ... à l'exécution de certains aspects du programme de l'Unesco en veillant à ce que, non  seulement, elles respectent les principes de l'Acte constitutif et les normes établies, mais aussi  agissent conformément aux résolutions de la Conférence générale". Je pense, Monsieur le Prési-  dent; qu'il s'agit des résolutions de la Conférence générale qui concernent les organisations non  gouvernementales. Il y a des résolutions qui les visent spécifiquement : nous en avons adopté déjà  tout à l'heure, celle-ci naturellement en est une, et nous en trouverons encore d'autres un peu  plus tard, Il y a également des résolutions dans lesquelles on se réfère a des organisations non  gouvernementales particulières en demandant leur collaboration. Quant aux autres résolutions, je  ne sais pas de quoi il s'agit. Il me semble donc qu'il vaudrait mieux préciser ce dont on veut  parler et dire à la fin du paragraphe : "mais aussi agissent conformément aux résolutions de la  Conférence générale les concernant'. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
47,1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of France and I assure him that the discrepancies between  the various language versions will be put right, and that the addition which he requested will be  made to the last paragraph,
47,2 The delegate of Kenya has the floor,
48, Mr. OPALA (Kenya):  Thank you, Mr. President, Let me explain that our delegation supported the resolution, but  we have a little quarrel with the wording in paragraph 7. We do not recall that the words "as in  the past were in this paragraph when we voted for it in the Commission and unless we can be  assured, Mr. President, that these words do improve the meaning of the paragraph we would insist  that they be deleted because we recall that this paragraph was actually our proposal, Thank you.
49,1 The PRESIDENT:  I do not think that there is any objection to deletion of the words "as in the past'' and they will  therefore be deleted.
49,2 I give the floor to the delegate of the Netherlands,
50, Mrs, KLOMPE (Netherlands):  Mr. President, my delegation has also some difficulty with the last paragraph but one, invit-  ing the Director-General to take care that non-governmental organizations follow a line of conduct  which is in conformity with the resolutions of the General Conference, a matter on which the del-  egate of France has just spoken, Mr, President, my impression is that it is not in the Director-  General's power to respond to this invitation in view of the freedom enjoyed by non-governmental  organizations. I would therefore like, Mr, President, through you, to request the Director-General  to give his interpretation of this paragraph, Thank you.
51, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of Italy has the floor,
52, Mme PARONETTO VALIER (Italie). -  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais seulement appuyer la proposition d'amendement faite par  le délégué de la France au paragraphe 13. Tout à l'heure, alors que nous discutions du projet de  résolution 6. 22, nous avons vu que, quand il s'agit des organisations non gouvernementales, on a  souvent tendance à être trop restrictif ou trop large. Je crois que c'est être réaliste que d'accepter  l'adjonction proposée par la France, qui définit plus précisément les liens des organisations non  gouvernementales avec l'Unesco, Merci, Monsieur le Président,
53. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Italy and call upon the distinguished delegate of Cuba,
(54) Mrs. DIAZ LOPEZ (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. President. I should like to refer to the thirteenth operative paragraph of the draft  resolution recommended by Commission III, since the original amendment was proposed by us, I shall  explain what its purpose was. , This paragraph invites the Director-General to "associate the international  non-governmental organizations evenmore closely ... with the execution of certain aspects of Unesco's  programme, taking care that in addition to respecting the principles laid down in the Constitution and  established standards, they follow a line of conduct which is in conformity with the resolutions of the Gen-  eral Conference. I stated in Commission III that I was referring to matters that had arisen in connection  with certain international non-governmental organizations over their relations with South Africa and also  with those that have branches, sections or members linked with the Chiang Kai-Shek clique and illegally  usurping the name of China, I did in fact speak of a line of conduct which is in conformity with the relevant  resolutions of Unesco, referring to this specific issue. It was stated that the word relevant was out of  place and that it would be better to say ''with the resolutions of the General Conference, I accepted this  proposal, but I believe that my suggestion had a very specific sense and that this should be maintained,  Perhaps we could spell out the resolutions which call for this particular line of conduct; it was to those  that I referred, Thank you very much, Mr. President.
55, The PRESIDENT: ; 5 ;  I thank the distinguished delegate of Cuba and call upon ie distinguished delegate of India,
56. Mr. DAYAL (India):  Thank you, Mr, President,  the distinguished delegation of France to add the words  I just would like to say that we agree with the suggestion made by  "concerning them'' at the end of paragraph15,
28 since this concerns the line of conduct which is to be carried out by international non-government]  organizations and we feel it to be logical that the line of conduct they carry out should be in conform.  ity with the resolutions of the General Conference concerning them, We think that perhaps this wij  also adequately take care of the views so eloquently expressed by the distinguished delegate of  Cuba, Thank you.
57. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, I call on the distinguished delegate of Iraq.  sad) Le Glogs dl Ly  IIe LS waded CIE NN Jl ml Bosal ial) as lll we es dee «15s  Ee AY A) upd des à ail A eS) be bb) if Let on 6 plas Sue fs le  Co dits à Les lolais | ug os ls (5) 5 0) Out] pe duegSadl ype Lilas Cos Cong sun) Lu Susy  smi po bind) 00 pny Be Lut £5 (ole SE 5 oad) I ly Sin IV pape LS a  ete se £5 3 3me domly and Sir ca Gling ail dites Lili à dJib dd 56 ols p Laine Lisl  ++ Ba ahs lie Lil ella) dale ps |, Lidl 0 Sg § Sign) p Lad! ai Ji DL Bal poe Llp]  . Vs dead! Vie $ apoedy Tedd les ods + Sas
(58) Mr. HIDAR (Iraq) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr, President. Duringthe discussions in Commission III, we approved the proposal sub-  mitted by Cuba in the light of a number of experiences. These included the conference of non-governmental  organizations held in November 1975 at Unesco Headquarters in Paris, during which certain non-governmental  organizations in categories A and B exceeded their competence and submitted draft resolutions attacking  Unesco and the United Nations; and also the fact that some of those organizations continued to maintain  relations with South Africa and with the Chiang Kai-Shek regime, In view of these experiences we believe  that there should be clearly defined rules, the most important of which would be an obligation to abide by  the resolutions of the General Conference, which should be binding on organizations maintaining relations  with Unesco. We agree to any clarifications and definitions along these lines, Thank you,
59, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Iraq and call upon the Director-General to say a word,
60.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL, -  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Des observations ont été formulées sur le para-  graphe 7 et sur le paragraphe 13 du projet de résolution. Je voudrais d'abord dire quelques mots  en ce qui concerne le paragraphe 7. Je pense que les suggestions présentées par les délégués de  la France et du Kenya sont appropriées. Je souhaiterais pour ma part introduire une petite nuance  que je vais expliquer. En effet, au paragraphe 7, il est demandé que "la politique des contrats  conclus avec les organisations internationales non gouvernementales compétentes pour l'exécution  du programme [soit] poursuivie et développée sans cependant diminuer les subventions qu'elles  recoivent'. Il serait à mon avis préférable de remplacer ces mots par les mots "les subventions  qu'elles peuvent recevoir". En effet, chaque fois que nous élaborons le budget, nous procédons à  une évaluation des relations existant entre 1'Organisation et les diverses organisations non gouver-  nementales et nous proposons de leur accorder des subventions en fonction précisément de la coo-  pération qui s'est établie avec elles et du travail qu'elles accomplissent. Or, je crains qu'en  adoptant le paragraphe 7 du projet de résolution sous sa forme actuelle, vous ne nous obligiez à  accorder des subventions à des organisations non gouvernementales même si elles n'apportent pas  à l'Organisation le concours qu'on est en droit d'attendre d'elles en contrepartie de la subvention  qui leur est versée. Je souhaiterais donc que la Conférence générale accepte ma suggestion de  modification du paragraphe 7, ce qui permettrait éventuellement de ne pas accorder de subventions  aux organisations non gouvernementales qui ne rempliraient pas les conditions requises.
60.2 Quant au paragraphe 13, pour répondre à la déléguée des Pays-Bas, j'avais moi-même  l'intention de vous indiquer après le vote, si aucune modification n'avait été apportée à ce para-  graphe, l'interprétation que je donnais à cette disposition. Les relations entre les organisations  non gouvernementales et l'Organisation sont - je le rappelle - régies par l'article XI, para-  graphe 4, de l'Acte constitutif. Nous ne pouvons veiller au respect de certaines normes par les  organisations non gouvernementales que dans la limite des accords conclus entre celles-ci et  l'Unesco et dans la limite des décisions de la Conférence générale concernant ces organisations.  Je pense donc que la modification qu'a suggérée le délégué de la France - et qui, comme l'a dit  tout à l'heure le délégué de l'Inde, va dans le sens de ce qu'avait souhaité la déléguée de Cuba -  préciserait les choses et permettrait, en tout cas, au Directeur général de n'agir que dans le cadre  de ses compétences, c'est-à-dire dans le cadre des décisions de la Conférence générale concer-  nant les organisations non gouvernementales elles-mêmes. Je vous remercie.
61,1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Director-General for his explanation, With those amendments which will be intro-  duced as suggested can we now approve the resolution under item 37 as shown in document 19 C/124?
61,2 The resolution, as amended, is adopted.
61,3 For item 38 we are only asked to take note of the report by the Director-General in docu-  ment 19 C/39,
61.4 That report is duly noted.
61.5 Once again, I give the floor to the Rapporteur,
62.1 Mr, STRASSER (Netherlands), Rapporteur of Programme Commission III:  Item 41 - Unesco's publications policy and its application  The Commission had before it a report by the Director-General (document 19 C/41) and two draft  resolutions, Document 19 C/41 had appended to it a set of "Directives on Unesco's publications  + 11  policy.
62.2 The Director-General's report was generally praised, Regret was however expressed that  it did not contain more statistical data on co-publications, contracts with National Commissions,  and the numbers of copies printed and sold in different languages, Some speakers stressed the need  for a better geographical and cultural distribution of authors. Some delegates introduced the con-  cept of "effectiveness'', both financial and intellectual,
62.3 The Directives were slightly amended: in paragraph 3, a reference to the Preamble to the  Constitution was replaced by a reference to the Constitution as a whole, and a phrase was added  concerning friendship and understanding among peoples. On the other hand, a proposal to refer  in this paragraph, not only to Unesco's programme, but to decisions taken by the General Confer-  ence, was not accepted,
62,4 In paragraph 9, the stipulation that publications ''should avoid anything which may cause  offence to Member States'' was deleted.
62.5 The Directives as a whole, as amended, were unanimously recommended for adoption by the  General Conference,
62.6 The draft resolutions contained in documents 19 C/ADM/DR. 1 (submitted by Yugoslavia) and
19 C/PRGIII/DR. 6 (submitted by Italy) were recommended unanimously after amendment, Thank  you, Mr, President,
63.1 The PRESIDENT:  The Commission recommended unanimously that the General Conference adopt the resolution  in paragraph 34 of document 19 C/41, This would include approval of the Directives on Unesco's  publications policy contained in Annex III of document 19 C/124,
63,2 I give the floor to the Director-General,
64. Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL. -  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais suggérer a la Conférence générale d'apporter une petite  modification a 1'alinéa du dispositif du premier projet de résolution présenté sous le point 41, qui  invite le Secrétariat à se conformer étroitement aux directives à adopter. Peut-être d'ailleurs le  Secrétariat est-il responsable d'une telle formulation, mais je pense que cette demande est inutile  puisque le Secrétariat est, bien entendu, tenu de se conformer aux directives relatives à la poli-  tique de l'Unesco en matière de publications, Je voudrais donc suggérer de donner à cet alinéa le  libellé suivant : "Invite le Directeur général à prendre les mesures appropriées en vue de la mise  en oeuvre de ces directives''. En effet, une fois les directives adoptées par la Conférence, il in-  combera au Directeur général de les mettre en oeuvre : c'est cette idée de responsabilité du Direc-  teur général quant à l'application des directives qu'exprime le texte modifié que je suggère, Je  vous remercie, Monsieur le Président,
65.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr, Director-General. The Conference has heard the amendment  suggested by the Director-General. Are there any comments? May I take it that with this amend-  ment the resolution is acceptable to the Conference?
65.2 The resolution thus amended is adopted.
65.3 The Commission also recommends that the General Conference adopt the resolutions based  on documents 19 C/ADM/DR. 1 and 19 C/PRG III/ DR. 6 as amended, Can we adopt these resolutions?
65.4 The delegate of Italy has the floor.
66. Mme PARONETTO VALIER (Italie). - !  Monsieur le Président, je me permets, au nom de ma délégation, de proposer un petit amende-  ment au dernier alinéa du projet de résolution présenté sous la cote 19 C/PRG. IIL/DR. 6. Le texte  devrait se lire ainsi : "Invite le Directeur général a étudier, en consultation avec le Conseil  exécutif, les moyens de dégager les fonds nécessaires ...''. Le reste de l'alinéa resterait sans  changement. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
28 (Mr. Arthur, Ghana, took the chair.)
67.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Italy. The Conference has heard the proposed amendment to the draft  resolution contained in document 19 C/PRG III/DR. 6.
67.2 I give the floor to the Director-General,
68.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL. - x ; ; .  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Bien entendu, je suis prêt à étudier, en consultation  avec le Conseil exécutif, les moyens de dégager les fonds nécessaires pour des publications éven-  tuelles dans les langues moins répandues que les langues habituelles de travail de l'Organisation,  Je n'ai donc aucune objection contre la proposition qui vient d'être faite par la déléguée de l'Italie,
68.2 J'aurais en revanche une suggestion à faire en ce qui concerne le projet de résolution précé-  dent, qui invite le Directeur général "à examiner la possibilité de procéder à une redistribution  des moyens prévus pour l'activité d'édition et de publication au cours de l'exercice 1977-1978, de  manière à pouvoir, dans le cadre du programme d'édition des documents, des livres et des publica-  tions, sur la base de la coopération avec les commissions nationales et dans le cadre du Programme  de participation, disposer de moyens d'un montant sensiblement supérieur pour encourager et aider  la traduction et l'édition de livres et de publications de l'Unesco dans les langues moins répandues  dans les pays en développement''. Je voudrais suggérer une autre formulation, plus conforme aux  décisions que vous prenez par ailleurs : vous venez d'adopter, au sujet de la politique de l'Unesco  en matière de publications des directives qui prescrivent précisément à celle-ci d'encourager  l'édition d'ouvrages dans des langues moins favorisées que les langues de travail de l'Organisation ;  nous vous avons d'autre part soumis un projet de plan des publications qui est annexé au document
19 C/5, et en approuvant le programme les différentes commissions ont du même coup approuvé  le plan des publications. En me demandant d'examiner la possibilité de redistribuer les moyens  prévus pour l'activité d'édition, vous mettriez donc en cause les décisions que vous avez prises  sur la politique en matière de publications, ainsi que le plan des publications. C'est pourquoi, je  suggère de reformuler comme suit le premier alinéa du dispositif du projet de résolution : "Invite  le Directeur général à donner une place importante, dans l'exécution du programme, à la traduc-  tion et a 1'édition de livres et de publications de 1'Unesco dans des langues moins répandues que  les langues de travail de l'Organisation''. Le second alinéa ne serait pas modifié.
69.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr. Director-General. Are there any comments on what the Director-General has  said? May I take it that the Conference accepts the amendment to the draft resolution contained in  document 19 C/ADM/DR. 1 suggested by the Director-General?
69,2 The resolution is adopted.
69.3 There was also an amendment proposed by the distinguished delegate of Italy. The amend-  ment, I believe, was acceptable to the Director-General, Does the Conference now wish to adopt  the resolution contained in document 19 C/PRG III/DR. 6 as further amended by Italy?
69,4 The Director-General has the floor.
70. Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL, -  Monsieur le Président, je n'ai aucune objection contre l'amendement présenté par la déléguée  de l'Italie, mais je voudrais faire une observation au sujet du deuxième considérant de ce projet  de résolution, qui se lit comme suit : “soulignant le rôle des publications dans la mise en oeuvre  du programme de l'Unesco dans son ensemble et la nécessité d'élaborer une politique en matière  d'édition ...". Etant donné que vous avez déjà décidé de la politique de l'Unesco en matière de  publications, je suggère de remplacer dans ce considérant le mot "élaborer" par le mot "appliquer".
71,1 The PRESIDENT:  I take it that with this minor change the resolution is acceptable to the Conference?
71,2 The resolution as amended is adopted,
71,3 The Rapporteur has already covered item 42 - Report of the Director-General on data-  processing services and their development - in an earlier part of his oral report. It simply  remains for me, therefore, to ask for your adoption of the resolution contained in document 19 C/43,  Part GC.
71.4 Thank you, The resolution is adopted,
71.5 With regard to item 45, the General Conference has already taken action, following a resolu-  tion presented by Programme Commission III. No further action is required on this item, Never-  theless, I give the floor to the Rapporteur for an oral report on the Commission's work.
72. Mr. STRASSER (Netherlands), Rapporteur of Programme Commission III:  Item 45 - Definition of regions with a view to the execution by the Organization  of regional activities (document 19 C/47 and Add.)  For this item, Mr. President, the Commission had before it document 19 C/47 and Add. After an  explanation given by the Chairman of the Executive Board of the action proposed to the General  Conference in this document, several speakers, on behalf of groups of Member States, took the  floor to indicate their agreement with that action and to comment on procedures, Other speakers  stressed that participation in regional activities implied cultural and linguistic links within the  region as well as geographical location. The debate ended on a motion for closure, A vote was  then taken on whether the Commission wished to recommend the proposals made by the Executive  Board to the General Conference. The result of this vote was 68 in favour, none against, and 14  abstentions. The Chairman of the Executive Board and the Legal Adviser commented on the expres-  sion "broad consent'', which had appeared in the recommendation of the Executive Board. Thank  you, Mr, President,
73. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr, Rapporteur, I give the floor to the Rapporteur to continue with his report  on item 68.
74.1 Mr. STRASSER (Netherlands), Rapporteur of Programme Commission III:  Item 68 - Preparation of a draft declaration on race and racial prejudice: Report of  the Director-General on the implementation of the relevant provisions of
18 C/Resolution 5.11 and recommendations of the Executive Board concerning  the measures to be taken in order to complete the elaboration of a draft to be  submitted to the General Conference (document 19 C/95)  Mr. President, the Commission had before it, for the discussion of this item,. document 19 C/95  and its annexes, The discussion revolved around decision 5. 4.1 adopted by the Executive Board  at its 100th session, which recommended that the draft recommendation should not be submitted  to the General Conference at its nineteenth but at its twentieth session,
74.2 The Chairman of the Executive Board explained the reasons which had led the Executive  Board to make this recommendation, and particularly the need to hold a meeting of governmental  experts during the 1977-1978 biennium,
74,3 The Assistant Director-General for Social Sciences recalled the circumstances that had led  the Director-General to abandon the holding of a governmental experts' meeting in 1976 and to con-  sult the Executive Board in this connection,
74.4 Discussion concentrated on paragraphs 9 and 10 of the Executive Board's decision and led to  a large consensus in favour of postponing the adoption of a declaration on race and racial prejudice  to the twentieth session of the General Conference.
74,5 Two main points of view emerged from this debate, The first advocated that a debate on the  substance of the issue should be avoided, given the importance and complexity of the question which  was not supported by sufficient preparation; also some delegations lacked precise instructions from  their authorities. It was stressed that, under such conditions, a debate would not have a represen-  tative character. Others held the view that with more time a satisfactory consensus could be  reached. The other main point of view urged Unesco to adopt speedily an instrument that would  effectively contribute to the struggle against the scourges of racialism, racial discrimination and  apartheid. Some of the speakers considered it necessary to have a full debate on this issue during  the present session of the General Conference in order to prepare and facilitate the work of the  governmental committee of experts,
74.6 The Chairman put to the vote the question whether the Commission wished to have a full  debate on the issue. The result of the vote was 16 in favour, 43 against, with 12 abstentions.
74,7 A discussion followed concerning the way in which work could proceed in 1977-1978, While  some speakers agreed with the recommendations of the Executive Board, others proposed a meet-  ing of eminent personalities to precede the meeting of governmental experts. Both for reasons of  substance and because of financial considerations, this latter suggestion was opposed.
74.8 In order to give the declaration a socio-political as well as a scientific scope, several  speakers suggested that research should be carried out at the national level with the help of  National Commissions. The proposal was also made that the declaration should be drafted in  terms accessible to the broad public, rather than in the language of scientists or of lawyers, It  was furthermore suggested that the draft declaration should be based on the Unesco statement of  experts on race and racial prejudice of 1967.
74.9 Others expressed the wish that the meeting of governmental experts should be convened in  the early months of 1977 and its conclusions submitted to the 103rd session of the Executive Board,  in order to reduce the number of stages leading to the adoption of the declaration,
28 74,10 In reply to the discussion, the Assistant Director-General for Social Sciences stated that,  in agreement with resolution 10, 1 of the seventeenth session of the General Conference, the draft  had in fact been based on the 1967 statement; it had been recognized as a scientifically sound docu-  ment. She stressed the financial implications of further meetings.
74.11 The Commission unanimously approved a resolution calling on the Director-General to  prepare a new text for submission to the General Conference at its twentieth session. Thank yoy,  Mr, President,
75,1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The Commission recommended unanimously that the General Conference adopt  the resolution contained in document 19 C/124 and based on document 19 C/PRG III/ DR, 4, Does  the Conference wish to adopt this resolution?
75,2 The resolution is adopted. Thank you.
75.3 We now move on to item 69 - Draft declaration on fundamental principles governing the use  of mass media in strengthening peace and international understanding and in combating war propa-  ganda, racialism and apartheid. The Commission has already recommended by 78 votes to 15, with
6 abstentions, that this item should be referred to the Drafting and Negotiaton Group. I give the  floor to the Rapporteur,
76.1 Mr. STRASSER (Netherlands), Rapporteur of Programme Commission III:  Item 69 - Draft declaration on fundamental principles governing the use of the mass  media in strengthening peace and international understanding and in combating  war propaganda, racialism and apartheid (document 19 C/91)  The Commission was asked to pronounce on a draft declaration adopted by an intergovernmental  meeting of experts held at Unesco House in Paris during December 1975, It had before it docu-  ment 19 C/91 and two draft resolutions, 19 C/PRG III/DR. 2 (submitted by Brazil) and 19 C/PRG III/DR, 3  (submitted by Iraq and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics).
76.2 The discussion on this item lasted for over four meetings and involved 54 speakers, includ-  ing two representing non-governmental organizations,
76.3 Three major areas of opinion emerged from this debate,
76.4 One strongly defended view held that the draft had been adopted by a minority of Unesco's  Member States and that there had been no consensus. Professional organizations had not been  consulted in its preparation. The draft contained concepts which were unacceptable to many States,  since it implied that there should be governmental control of the media, The draft declaration  approached only one of a series of problems related to mass media in isolation; the matter should  be approached in a broader context, having regard to initiatives taken at recent international con-  ferences. The present draft ignored the basic needs of the developing countries and the widening  information gap between North and South; there was a one-way flow of information, with the effect  that foreign cultures were being imposed where the local media were weak, These issues were  too important to be jeopardized by a limited declaration which contained unacceptable concepts.
76.5 The view was stressed that complete freedom of the press and absence of censorship were  essential guarantees of individual rights, a protection against the inroads of government, and an  early warning device for the authorities, allowing them to adapt their policies to the wishes of the  broad public in time,
76.6 In the same context, many speakers stressed that there should be no restriction on the free  circulation of ideas and that the mass media should be free from State control. The draft, it was  said, reflected the totally unacceptable view that the media were tools to be used in the interests  of the State. Various sections of the draft, notably paragraph 5 of the Preamble and Articles III,  VIII, X and, inparticular, Article XII, were singled out for criticism by various speakers. Some  delegates stated that these concepts would be contrary to their national laws and constitutions, and  some speakers considered that they were contrary to Article I of Unesco's Constitution and Arti-  cle 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It was said that there were different theories  and systems of State responsibility and it would not be realistic to argue in favour of any one of  them. One member, speaking on behalf of nine Member States, and supported by other speakers,  acknowledged a duty to assist developing countries to strengthen their media, The same speaker  also stated that the group of nine Member States would not participate in a substantive discussion  of the draft declaration during the present session of the Conference,
76.7 A second group of speakers, while agreeing that there could be some improvement in the  wording, spoke in favour of the draft declaration, It was pointed out that the massive spread of  the media was affecting all mankind, Unesco was the Organization best suited to deal with the  grave problems this entailed. Several sections of the draft declaration specifically recognized the  principle of freedom of information, e.g. paragraphs 3 and 12 of the Preamble and Article I. The  draft was not against freedom of speech but sought to lay a moral obligation on the media to assist
226   in the struggle for peace and in combating war propaganda, racialism and apartheid, It was pointed  out, in particular, that Article XII of the draft should not be interpreted as implying State control  of all media, but only of those already under State jurisdiction; if the wording of the Article was not  clear in this respect, it could be amended, The declaration, it was said, was in accordance with  the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe, and would help  détente. Normative action by Unesco in this field was legitimate; the problem was not a choice  between ideologies but an ethical one: the common interest of mankind was more important than  differing philosophies, and States were responsible for the maintenance of peace.
76,8 It was further pointed out that the draft, in Article IV, specifically called for a balanced  approach and for support to the development of national media, In this connection one speaker  stated that such aid would be welcome, but only within the framework of accepted norms.
76.9 Some members considered that the draft declaration was important for the developing coun-  tries, because they were victims of distorted information and malicious propaganda, Reference  was made to decisions taken at recent intergovernmental conferences, States must influence the  quality and objectivity of messages; the media should be instruments of truth and culture and be  used to educate and motivate the people. The draft, it was said, was a starting point for the  strengthening of peace. One speaker considered that the draft did not go far enough; while support-  ing the declaration he considered it was a minimum which should be the basis for further action.
76.10 A third group of delegates were in sympathy with the lofty aims and broad intentions of the  draft and thus favoured it in principle but insisted that the text should be substantially improved.  They were in favour of a declaration, but one which would be precise in wording, would be capable  of implementation and would be universally acceptable. Some speakers were in favour of some  regulation of the media, but not their subordination to the government of the day. The media, it  was said, were an indispensable ingredient of the modern world and should be employed produc-  tively towards the strengthening of peace and international understanding. The declaration should  have a strong ethical content, taking into account all tendencies, Freedom of communication and  the free flow of information should be protected, but coupled with the notion of responsibility, Free-  dom could not mean the right of the stronger to impose their values upon the weaker. The struggle  for political and economic emancipation should be presented objectively to outside public opinion,  These speakers generally agreed that more time and more work were needed to produce a draft  which would remove any doubts and obtain a consensus.
76,11 Finally, a number of individual viewpoints were expressed, One speaker was of the opinion  that a declaration should provide approaches which were in conformity with the interests of the  peoples of the world; the present draft was far from doing this; the superpowers were trying to  serve their respective ulterior motives, and a basis for discussion was still lacking. Another  considered that the new communication revolution called for new rules and new structures and that  there was very little scientific knowledge of the effects of this new power; more time was needed  to study the question, in particular through more scientific research and with a view to producing  a more coherent instrument of a broader scope which might help in creating a ''new international  information order' within the new international economic order. Another member stated that the  draft declaration was peripheral to the real and urgent needs of the developing countries.
76.12 During their interventions, various delegates had made suggestions as to further action on  this item. One speaker suggested that consideration of the item should be postponed to the twenti-  eth session of the General Conference, while others considered that amendments to the draft could  be examined in the Commission or by a working party appointed by it. Many speakers, however,  considered that there would be no time to undertake the thorough examination of the draft that would  be required, and that further work was necessary, including fuller consultation with the professional  organizations concerned, They favoured referring the item to the Drafting and Negotiation Group  established by the General Conference at its present session,
76.13 Throughout the debate, one basic note came through: most speakers preferred to reach a  broad consensus,
76.14 In conclusion, the Chairman noted the high quality of the debate, The Assistant Director-  General for Culture and Communication stated that it had justified Unesco's universal dimension  and shown that all peoples could communicate with each other on an equal footing and share their  opinions, He felt that there was a consensus on the need for the media to become a means of  attaining Unesco's objectives and achieving justice.
76.15 On the proposal of the representative of Brazil, supported by a large number of delegations,  the Commission voted on the suggestion that this item, including the draft resolutions, should be  referred to the Drafting and Negotiation Group, in accordance with paragraph 4 of document 19 cl2  Add, for appropriate action, The result of the vote was 78 in favour, 15 against, with 6 abstentions,  The Commission expressed the wish that the Drafting and Negotiation Group should be provided with  the basic documentation on this item and with a summary of the discussion that had taken place within  the Commission, Thank you, Mr, President,
77.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr. Rapporteur.
28 77.2 We now move to item 71 and I give the floor once again to the Rapporteur.
78. Mr. STRASSER (Netherlands), Rapporteur of Programme Commission III:  Item 71 - The question of international non-governmental organizations maintaining  Telations with Unesco and having branches, sections or members linked  with the Chiang clique and illegally usurping the name of China  A draft resolution (19 C/PRG III/DR. 1) was presented to the Commission, supported by a number  of delegations. After some amendments had been proposed, not all of which were accepted by the  sponsor of the draft resolution, the amended draft resolution was approved, with one member vot.  ing against, and 24 abstentions. Thank you, Mr. President.
79. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr, Rapporteur, I give the floor to the delegate of France.
80. M. THOMAS (France). -  Monsieur le Président, la délégation francaise a voté en Commission III en faveur de ce projet  de résolution, et naturellement elle confirmera ce vote ici-même. Cependant, en relisant de près  le texte du paragraphe 2, nous nous sommes aperçus que la résolution 6.51 adoptée par la Confé-  rence générale à sa dix-huitième session, qui est visée dans ce paragraphe, ne mentionnait pas  "des branches, sections ou membres!’ mais "des organismes ou éléments". Ce sont d'ailleurs les  mêmes termes qui figurent au paragraphe 5 du projet de résolution qui nous est soumis. Je  voudrais donc demander à la délégation de la Chine si elle ne pense pas comme nous qu'il vaudrait  mieux, au paragraphe 2, employer les termes exacts de la résolution invoquée, et dire : "... des  organisations internationales non gouvernementales entretenant des relations avec l'Unesco qui  ont des organismes ou des éléments liés ... ! Merci, Monsieur le Président.
81. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of France, I give the floor to the delegate of China,
82. M. HU SHA (Chine) (déclaration faite en chinois, texte français établi d'après l'interprétation),  Monsieur le Président, la délégation française vient de présenter un amendement au para-  graphe 2 du projet de résolution, Je crois en réalité qu'il s'agit d'un problème de traduction. Il ne  me semble pas en effet que le texte anglais renferme le mot "membre''. Le texte français devrait  donc être harmonisé avec le texte anglais. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
83. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of China, The Secretariat assures me that this will be done, The delegate  of Norway has the floor.
84, Mr. BJORNEBYE (Norway):  Thank you, Mr. President. When the Commission voted on this item my delegation had not  been able to receive instructions in time and therefore felt obliged to abstain on the resolution,  Shortly after the vote, however, we did get instructions to vote for it. So I would like our position  on this question to be made clear and I would be glad to leave it to your discretion, Mr. President,  as to whether we should have a new vote in the plenary or whether it will be sufficient to note our  position in the records of the Conference, Thank you, Mr, President,
85. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Norway. What you have said will be noted in the records of the Confer-  ence. The delegate of the United States of America has the floor,
86. Mr. WARVARIV (United States of America):  Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. President, we would like to suggest that a vote be taken on  this resolution as a whole. Thank you, Sir,
87,1 The PRESIDENT:  Your suggestion is accepted. The Commission recommended by 66 votes to one with 24 absten-  tions that the General Conference adopt the draft resolution based on 19 C/PRG III/DR. 1, concern-  ing item 71 of the agenda, I put that resolution as a whole to the Conference,  (Voting was by show of hands. )
87,2 The result of the vote is as follows: 72 votes in favour, 2 against and 19 abstentions.
87,3 The resolution is therefore adopted. Thank you.
87.4 I give the floor to the delegate of the United States of America,
88. Mr, WARVARIV (United States of America):  Thank you, Mr, President, Mr, President, the United States delegation voted against the  resolution that has just been adopted because we believe that it is not in conformity with the letter  and the spirit of the directives governing Unesco's relations with international non-governmental  organizations. Thank you, Mr, President,
89,1 The PRESIDENT:  That ends this part of Commission III's Report.
89.2 We now: turn to document 19 C/124 Add. 2 which covers two items considered at the end of  the Commission's work, I give the floor to the Rapporteur, to continue with his report.
90,1 Mr. STRASSER (Netherlands), Rapporteur of Programme Commission III:  Mr, President, I shall now report on the two items that were dealt with by the Commission on
18 November, the last day of its meetings, namely, item 40 and item 70, The relevant recommen-  dations are before you in document 19 C/124 Add, 2,
90.2 Item 40 - Report of the Director-General on new ways and means of mustering  additional financial resources for Unesco's programmes (document 19 C/40  and Add.)  For this item, the Commission had before it document 19 C/40, a report by the Director-General,  and 19 C/40 Add. , the comments of the Executive Board on the Director-General's report.
90.3 In the course of the discussion, a large number of proposals were made, There appeared to  be general agreement that Unesco should continue to call on traditional sources of financing, and  that efforts to do so could be increased, There was a wide disparity of views as to whether there  should be provision in the Regular Budget to make up for inadequacy of extra-budgetary resources  for development assistance, There were proposals to the effect that the Regular Budget should  cover the overhead costs of fund-in-trust projects, that the Economic and Social Council of the  United Nations should be asked to study the possibility of international taxation on behalf of the  United Nations system, and that the consequences of disarmament should be studied in connection  with the financing of development,
90,4 The Chairman appointed a working party to propose an agreed text. This appeared in docu-  ment 19 C/PRGIII/DR. 8, not all clauses which had obtained the support of all members of the  working party. In the ensuing proceedings the view was expressed that paragraph (c) of the draft  resolution was contrary to decisions taken by the General Conference, Other speakers considered  that Member States had not been sufficiently consulted, and that the Commission could not, there-  fore, take a decision, It was said that the proposal for international taxation was not realistic.  The link between extra-budgetary resources and Regular Budget funds was stressed, One member  complained that document 19 C/40 had been distributed too late for proper study, and urged that  the question be postponed to the twentieth session of the General Conference, The same speaker  considered that the matter was more relevant to the terms of reference of the Administrative Com-  mission, In the course of the vote, he raised the question of the quorum as only 39 Member States  were represented, The Legal Adviser stated that the quorum could only be contested at the outset  of a sitting.
90.5 On a proposal from the floor, the draft resolution was restructured, There was some dis-  cussion as to whether paragraph (e) should appear under Part I or Part II of the resolution, Inthe  end, the draft resolution was adopted by 25 votes in favour, none against, with 11 abstentions,  Thank you, Mr, President,
91. The PRESIDENT:  I thank you very much, Mr, Rapporteur, I give the floor to the Secretary.
92. Le SECRETAIRE, -  Monsiéur le Président, il y a une correction à apporter au texte du projet de résolution. Il  convient de lire l'alinéa (e) comme suit : "'A faire rapport a la Conférence générale, à sa vingtième  session, sur la mise en oeuvre des paragraphes ci-dessus de la présente résolution". Merci,  Monsieur le Président.
93.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr. Secretary. As you will observe, the Commission recommended by 25 votes  to none, with 11 abstentions, the adoption of the draft resolution based on 19 C/PRGIII/DR.8.  Does any delegation call for a vote on this resolution?
93.2 The resolution is adopted, Thank you.
93.3 Finally, we turn to item 70 and I give the floor to the Rapporteur to continue with his report.
94.1 Mr, STRASSER (Netherlands), Rapporteur of Programme Commission III:  Item 70 - Implementation of resolution 13, 1 adopted by the General Conference at its  eighteenth session concerning the educational and cultural institutions in the  ‘occupied Arab territories (documents 19 C/73 and 19 C/PRG III/ DR, 5)    Mr, President, the Commission had before it document 19 C/73, a report by the Director-General,  and a draft resolution submitted by 29 Member States (19 C/PRG II1/ DR. 5). It devoted the bestpart  of five sittings to this question.
28 94,2 Most speakers commended the Director-General on the efforts he had made to implement
18 C/Resolution 13,1, Many speakers deplored the fact that, owing to the refusal of the Israeli  authorities, it had not yet been possible to send a fact-finding mission to the occupied Arab terri-  tories. Some members stated that the recent acceptance by Israel of a fact-finding mission was a  manoeuvre, while others welcomed it as a constructive contribution, The delegate of Israel indie.  ated his Government's willingness to provide the fact-finding mission with all the assistance it  required; he cited certain facts and figures to indicate that the educational situation in the occupied  Arab territories had improved, rather than worsened. This statement was disputed by other  speakers,
94.3 Several amendments were proposed to the text of the draft resolution contained in docu-  ment 19 C/PRGIII/DR. 5, in particular to paragraphs 4, 5, 8, 10, 11 and 12, by Australia, Canada,  France and the United States of America, On behalf of the African and Arab groups of Member  States, a series of amendments were proposed, relating to paragraphs 4, 8, 11 and 12,
94,4 In submitting the amendments to the Commission, the delegate who spoke on behalf of the  African and Arab groups of Member States explained the exact meaning of paragraph 8 as his group  proposed that it should be amended, that is, the paragraph which starts with the word "Condemning"  and on which a large part of the debate had concentrated; the ""condemnation'' was, at the present  moment, exclusively hypothetical, he said; moreover it appeared only in a preambular paragraph,  It would only become relevant in the event that the fact-finding mission should confirm what at  present were allegations.
94,5 The speaker further expressed the view that the proposed amendment to change the word  ""Condemning!'' to the phrase "Considering open to condemnation (or in the French original  "Tenant pour condemnable') was in fact unnecessary as it had the same meaning, Finally, the  speaker stated that there appeared to be a consensus regarding both the objectives and the means  to attain them; the only difference of opinion appeared to be in the choice of words.
94.6 In the Commission's vote on the amended text of the draft resolution, all the amendments  submitted by Australia, Canada, France and the United States of America - except, of course,  those that had already been withdrawn - were defeated. The resolution, as amended by the African  and Arab groups of Member States and as now reproduced in document 19 C/124 Add. 2, was adopted  by 73 votes to 6, with 30 abstentions,
94.7 The Deputy Director-General stated that the funds needed for the fact-finding mission -  estimated at about $85,000, not counting staff time - would be found by the Director-General  within the approved budget ceiling by economy measures. As regards the tasks of supervision  which the Director-General was invited to undertake in paragraph 11 of the resolution as voted,  the Director-General would estimate the budgetary implications and consult the Executive Board,  Thank you, Mr, President.
95.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr, Rapporteur. As the Conference has heard, the draft resolution  based on document 19 C/PRG III/DR. 5 was recommended for adoption by 73 votes to 6, with 30  abstentions,
95.2 I give the floor to the delegate of New Zealand.
96.1 Mr. TURNOVSKY (New Zealand):  Mr, President, in Commission III, New Zealand voted against the adoption of the draft resolu-  tion in document 19 C/PRGIII/DR. 5 as amended, We did so with the greatest reluctance because,  as we said during the debate, we are firmly convinced of the importance of Unesco sending a fact-  finding mission to the Arab territories occupied by Israel, We are equally convinced that the  mission should proceed to these territories in a spirit of goodwill, but we are afraid that this possi-  bility may have been jeopardized by certain statements made in the draft resolution, If the more  moderate wording of the Australian amendments had been adopted, New Zealand - and, I am sure,  some other delegations which either opposed the adoption of the draft resolution or abstained -  would have gladly voted in favour of it,
96.2 It is a great pity that the broad consensus which everybody in this assembly so clearly sought  to achieve eluded us in the end because of disagreement over a few words. The distinguished del-  egate of Benin, despite his great powers of logic and persuasion, was unable to convince us that  the word "Condemning'' has any other than its literal meaning and that paragraph 8 of the resolu-  tion does not prejudge the facts which the fact-finding mission are charged to uncover. New Zealand  has always set its face against condemning anybody, or any country, until it has been clearly estab-  lished that the facts warrant condemnation, New Zealand does not, in this instance, propose to  change this stance, which it regards as a matter of natural justice.
96.3 However, to underline the importance which New Zealand attaches to the speedy dispatch of  a fact-finding mission to the occupied Arab territories, in the interests of the education and cultural  welfare of the people, and especially the children concerned, and also to take account of the general-  ly constructive debate on the issue, and the tremendous efforts to reach consensus made by so
230   many, both here in this chamber and in private negotiations outside it, New Zealand will abstain in  the final vote on the draft resolution contained in document 19 C/PRG III/ DR. 5, if a final vote is  taken.
96.4 It would have taken so little for us to vote in support, If even at this late stage the sponsors  of the resolution could see their way to moderating the tone of the resolution by adopting amend-  ments in line with those proposed by Australia - which after all have been reduced to call for  changes in only three paragraphs, namely paragraphs 5, 8 and 10 - we would, of course, vote in  support of the resolution. We, and I am sure other delegations holding similar views, would re-  gard this as an act of true statesmanship which would bring enormous gain to the spirit of co-  operation and solidarity within Unesco and in the final analysis to the people most affected, the  Arab children in the occupied territories. We would regard this as a gesture which would be fully  in conformity with what we have all come to call "the spirit of Nairobi".
96.5 Mr. President, if no final vote is taken, then I would request that this statement be recorded  in the report of the proceedings of this meeting. Thank you, Mr. President,
97, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of New Zealand, and I give the floor to the delegate of Chile.
(98.1) Mr, FERNANDEZ (Chile) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr, President. In the opinion of the delegation of Chile, the draft resolution that we are  at present considering contains some positive elements, such as the obligation placed upon Unesco to exer-  cise supervision over the operation of educational and cultural institutions in the occupied Arab territories,  and the rejection of the military occupation of territories by foreign troops, since this represents a threat  to peace and human rights and is contrary to the United Nations Charter. In this respect, we consider  that the inhabitants of the above-mentioned territories have a right to their cultural identity and in this  context we regret that Unesco has been unable to take action before this.
(98.2) We also disapprove of the occupation of the Arab territories, In this connection, in conformity with  the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Chile on 1 July 1975, we reiterate our support  for Security Council resolution 242, An important feature of that resolution is the search for an equitable  solution to the problem of the Palestinian people, recognizing their right to self-determination and national  sovereignty.
(98.3) For these reasons we were able to vote in favour of many of the paragraphs of the resolution now  before us; however, when it came to the resolution as a whole we had to abstain because of a matter of  principle, We refer to the paragraph in which a Member State is condemned for violations of human rights  which it is alleged to have committed. Respect for human rights seems to us to be a fundamental issue.  My Government has just given proof of this, once again, by releasing all political prisoners, Nevertheless,  we remain convinced that the Constitution of Unesco does not allow it to condemn a Member State, It is for  this reason, and this reason alone, that my delegation had to abstain, although we believe that the basic  content of the resolution is just. Thank you very much, Mr, President.
99. The PRESIDENT: Li.  I thank the distinguished delegate of Chile and call upon the distinguished delegate of the  United States of America.
100.1 Mr, WARVARIV (United States of America): : |  Thank you, Mr, President, Mr, President, the United States delegation voted against this  resolution in Commission III and has thoroughly explained its position on this very important issue,
28 Rather than repeat that explanation here, I would ask that the full text of my delegation's statement  in Commission III be reproduced in the record of the present meeting.
100.2 At this point, Mr, President, I would merely request you to put to a vote this resolution ag  a whole, Thank you, Mr, President.
101,1 The PRESIDENT:  The request of the delegate of the United States of America with regard to his delegation's  statement in Commission III is noted.
101.2 I now give the floor to the delegate of the Netherlands.
102. M. DE HOOG (Pays-Bas). -  Monsieur le Président, il s'agit simplement d'une question de forme, qui ne concerne proba-  blement que le texte français. Au paragraphe 11 du projet de résolution, les mots "en vue de  garantir aux populations ...' ne devraient pas figurer dans l'alinéa (c), mais constituer un alinéa  distinct, comme dans le texte anglais. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
103. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, I will now give the floor to the Secretary.
104. Le SECRETAIRE, -  Monsieur le Président, le Secrétariat s'est déjà aperçu de cette erreur, qui ne concerne en  effet que le texte français. La version définitive de la résolution sera corrigée en conséquence,  Merci, Monsieur le Président.
105,1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Now the Conference is called on to vote on the draft resolution contained  in document 19 C/PRGIII/DR. 5 as amended,  (Voting was by show of hands. )
105,2 The result of the vote (corrected after a second count was taken) is as follows: 61 votes in  favour, 5 against and 28 abstentions.
105.3 The resolution is adopted.
105.4 I give the floor to the delegate of Guatemala,
(106) Mr, PUTZEYS (Guatemala) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr, President, I should like to request that the record of this meeting include the reasons  which led my delegation to vote against the resolution and which were explained when this item came be-  fore Commission III, I consider it unnecessary to repeat them and simply wish that they be specifically  recorded, Thank you, Mr, President,
107,1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Your request will be noted, (2)
107,2 I now give the floor to the delegate of Australia,
108, Mr. ANDERSON (Australia):  Mr, President, it was with great regret that my delegation found itself obliged to vote against  this resolution, We had hoped to be able in Programme Commission III to arrive at a text for which  there would be a broad consensus. But we were unable, in particular and above all, to accept the  retention of the word ""Condemning' in revised paragraph 8, Since the Commission rose, we have  given this question further and very careful consideration but this has only reinforced our initial  reactions. For us, the word "Condemning' represents the strongest and most extreme form of  censure which exists. We would agree that if Israel had violated the rights of the people in the oc-  cupied Arab territories to national education and cultural life and particularly if it had practised a  policy of systematic cultural assimilation, then this would indeed require the strongest international  disapproval, but we do not think that this has been proved. The English text of paragraph 8 can
(1) This statement is reproduced in Annex I to the present Verbatim Record,
(2) The statement on item 70 of the agenda made by the delegate of Guatemala in the course of the  debate on this draft resolution in Programme Commission III is reproduced in Annex II,
232   perhaps be read as a conditional condemnation but it can also be read, and it will also be read, as  a direct and absolute condemnation, The distinguished delegate of Benin said in the Commission III  that we were at odds, and this is indeed the case. But we cannot accept the construction that might  be placed on these particular words and which, as far as the English text is concerned, is a cons-  truction that will almost certainly be placed on them throughout the English-speaking world.
108.2 Notwithstanding this, Mr, President, my Government fully supports the dispatch of a fact-  finding mission with the full terms of reference provided for in paragraph 9 of the resolution. It  is our earnest hope that this mission will produce conclusive answers to the questions that have  divided us here. But we also hope that it will make a positive contribution, and will enable our  Organization to make a positive contribution, to the cultural and educational welfare and advance-  ment of the Arab people, and in particular, the Arab children, living in the territories themselves,  Thank you, Mr, President.
109. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, I now give the floor to the delegate of Egypt.
(110) Mr, EL-WAKIL (Egypt) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr, President, I do not wish to prolong the work of the General Conference at this late  hour, but would simply like to ask the Secretariat to arrange for the explanation of the Egyptian  delegation's vote in Commission III to be included in the record of this plenary meeting, Thank you,  Mr, President.
111.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Your request has been noted, (1)
111.2 I now give the floor to the delegate of Canada,
112. M. BEAULNE (Canada). -  Monsieur le Président, j'ai déja expliqué en Commission III les raisons qui m'ont poussé a voter  contre cette résolution. Ce sont les mêmes raisons qui m'ont incité ce soir à me prononcer dans  le méme sens. Malgré les explications byzantines qui nous ont été données le lendemain du vote  en Commission III, les journaux du monde entier ne s'y sont pas trompés puisqu'ils ont clamé la  nouvelle de la condamnation de 1'une des parties au conflit du Moyen-Orient. C'est précisément a  cela que je m'opposais, car la résolution dans sa forme actuelle ne me paraissait pas de nature a  faciliter la tâche du Directeur général ni à protéger les droits des habitants des territoires occupés.  Merci, Monsieur le Président.
113. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, I now give the floor to the delegate of San Marino,
114, M. GIARDI (Saint-Marin). -  Monsieur le Président, je serai très bref. Je vous prierai simplement de bien vouloir faire  consigner au procès-verbal de la séance la déclaration que ma délégation a faite lorsque ce projet  de résolution a été étudié par la Commission III. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
115,1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Your request has been noted. (2) Ladies and gentlemen, that completes  our consideration of the report of Commission III. May I, on your behalf, thank the Chairman and  Rapporteur of Programme Commission III for the very good work they have done? Thank you.
115.2 The meeting stands adjourned till tomorrow morning at ten o'clock,  The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m,  La séance est levée à 18 h.15  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 18.15
3acemanune 3akpeBaeTcs B 18.15  . ‘Lu à de I PUL RT NEORTI ON J EIR [RR SENIOR
(1) The statement made by the delegate of Egypt to explain his vote on draft resolution
19 C/PRG III/DR. 5 in Programme Commission III is reproduced in Annex III,
(2) The statement on item 70 of the agenda made by the delegate of San Marino in the course of  the debate in Programme Commission TI is reproduced in Annex IV.