Eleventh plenary meeting
1 November 1976 at 3 p.m.  Presidents: Mr. TOWEETT (Kenya)  Mr. THOMPSON (Jamaica)  Mr. BRUERA (Argentina) ° 7 I Onzième séance plénière  ler novembre 1976 à 15 heures  Président : M. TOWEETT (Kenya)  puis M. THOMPSON (Jamaique)  “ M. BRUERA (Argentine)  Undécima sesiôn plenaria
(0 ( WS) Cops? ed) Gt SN  (Belle) Gouna)  {itn A Las sell  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)/DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite) / DEBATE  DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)/  OBCYXIIEHHE BOIIPOCOB OBIEH MOJIHTUKH (npoxouxeune) (eb ) éeletlävluSl sash,
1. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I call on the first speaker this afternoon, H.E. the head of the delega-  tion of Austria, to address us.
2,1 Mr, PAHR (Austria): ; ; ;  Mr. President, let me first express our sincere concern and consternation at the distressing  news which has reached us from Indonesia concerning the earthquake disaster in that country. May  I convey our sincere sympathy to all those who have been affected.
2.2 Mr. President, in congratulating you on having been elected by the unanimous decision FE  Conference to your present function, I should like to express our particular ae e met  that a distinguished representative of our host country - a country linked with Austria ACE >  cordial diplomatic, commercial and cultural relations - has been called upon to Sous is € A  responsibility. In your person, Sir, I also have the honour to recognize an outstanding aus n  tive of the continent of Africa which during the past three decades - that is during the period o  Unesco's existence - has undergone such an impressive development. For the past twenty es  no General Conference has been held outside Paris. It is no accident that the present ee  Conference takes place in this highly efficient conference centre - which bears the sc i  esteemed President, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta. This in itself is proof of the statement made  of the African members of the Executive Board who stressed that Africa was striving to make  itself better understood as an essential part of the contemporary world.
2.3 Mr, President, I also take this opportunity to extend a warm welcome to those new Member  States which are joining our Organization.
2.4 If the choice of an African capital as the site of this gathering bears Li a  ton of the progress made in this continent, this appreciation aad ii se  and may I say enhanced, by the decision to entrust the high office L su Dahil  Mr, Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, whose personal style and leadership in guiding ey  have already won him general recognition and praise. I should like to express PP
11 for the efforts so far undertaken by the Director-General, wishing him success in his further  endeavours. His task, as we are fully aware, is not an easy one.
2.5 Without wishing to anticipate a more detailed discussion of the contents of the programme  before us, I should like first to refer to some points of principle concerning the overall approach  to the two-year and medium-term plans. I shall then permit myself to call your attention to cer  tain aspects of the programme which we believe to be of special significance - and that not only x  for our own country. Finally, some brief but basic observations on the task and function of Unese  in our changing world may not appear superfluous, considering the manifold challenges with in  Unesco is confronted at the outset of the fourth decade of its existence,
2.6 This moment in Unesco's history appears indeed well chosen for the transition represented  by the introduction of the Medium-Term Plan in its present form. It will, we believe, encourage  participation by Member States. We share the Director-General's view that the six-year plan, by  its nature a draft projection into the future, must be viewed as a whole, containing as it does all  the more detailed and concrete projects of the two-year programme.
2.7 Turning now to some specific aspects of the programme, I should like to deal first of all With  education - a word which no longer merely denotes a major sector of Unesco's sphere of activity  but which - partly as a result of Unesco's efforts - stands for a comprehensive concept relating 4  many spheres of life. Rightly, special attention is being paid to the Recommendation concerning  Education for International Understanding, Co-operation and Peace, and my country endeavours  to comply with it in every possible way. The Associated Schools Project as well as the production  of bilateral history books - an effort to eliminate outdated stereotypes, representations of so-  called "traditional enemies' from education manuals - may be mentioned in this connection, We  fully appreciate Unesco's efforts in the field of education. It would seem to us that more attention  should be paid to technical and vocational training, which was the subject of an Austrian proposal  at the seventeenth session of the General Conference. A draft prepared by government experts  was, you will recall, unanimously adopted two years ago. We feel that it should now be followed  up, encouraging an international exchange of information and experience in a field in which my  country has long been active, and which appears to offer ample opportunity for international co-  operation. My country has co-operated in one of Unesco's studies, dealing with the integration of  handicapped children and juveniles into technical and vocational education.
2.8 Mr. President, the elimination of racism and racial discrimination is undoubtedly one of the  fundamental goals of the implementation of human rights. It constitutes one of the basic aims of  the United Nations, for racism and racial discrimination are a total negation of the very idea of  such rights and freedoms. Although racism and racial discrimination are being firmly rejected  almost universally they unfortunately continue to persist in certain areas of the world, in particu-  lar in southern Africa - a fact which my Government sincerely deplores. Further efforts for their  total elimination are urgently called for. In my statement before the XXXIst General Assembly of  the United Nations I voiced the hope that the Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination,  without being disturbed by any extraneous elements that might impede its success, would fulfil our  aspirations, In this connection, I expressed the wish that the Decade would also lead to the elimi-  nation of the roots of racial discrimination, which are to be found in the minds of men. I pointed  out that special attention should be given to education designed to encourage tolerance and the  respect of the rights and interests of others. Referring to Article 9 of the International Convention  on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination, which provides for such education, I  expressed the hope that Unesco would contribute to the achievement of this goal by paying far greater  attention to the crucial element of education in this process.
2.9 Mr. President, Austria also supports all efforts to elaborate a convention on the protection  of minorities, complementing the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimi-  nation, which would safeguard the existence and further development of ethnic groups, and which  would have to deal also with questions of culture and education. It was in this sense that I com-  mented favourably on the welcome initiative proposed by the Foreign Minister of Yugoslavia in his  statement delivered in New York before the current General Assembly of the United Nations.
2.10 Mr. President, for several years now, Unesco - true to its mission with regard to educa-  tion - has endeavoured to develop studies in the field of human rights at universities and other  post-graduate institutes. The preparation of adequate teaching aids as well as efforts towards  the training of academic teachers and instructors in the field of human rights were steps in this  direction. Now, however, it appears to my delegation that, in keeping with the Recommendation  on Education for International Understanding, Co-operation and Peace, to which I have already  referred, further even more concrete activities would appear highly useful. What I have in mind  is a further promotion of international co-operation among those engaged in academic work on  human rights on the one hand and the institutions concerned with instruction in this sphere on the  other, including the strengthening of the already existing ties with the International Human Rights  Institute. In an effort to suggest constructive steps toward the realization of these objectives,  such as the possible preparation of a conference of university representatives on the study and où  the teaching of human rights, the Austrian delegation will have the honour to return to this subject  at the appropriate time during this session of the Conference.
9,11 Mr. President, those among us who have long been familiar  recall that Austrian delegations have repeatedly stressed the role  fields within the programme. We shall take every opportunity to  status for women in all spheres of life, It is therefore with great  that I observe the presence of more women as delegates or memb  the case. For I am personally concerned at the fact that women do play a rather limited role in the  public life of most States. In all likelihood there is not a single Parliament or Government in which  women are represented in proportion to their share of the population. As it is our belief that the  causes for this state of affairs are at least in part rooted in education and traditional attitudes  toward vocational training, it would appear to my delegation - without wishing, at this point to  enter into details - that Unesco might do well to consider the possibility of sponsoring a confer-  ence of women who are members of their respective national parliaments. Who Indeed would be  better qualified than ladies of such qualifications who have been personally successful in public  life and who have mastered the obstacles imposed upon them by our social order, to analyse this  problem and to indicate ways to overcome it. Moreover, as members of legislative organs they  would be in a position to turn words into deeds.  with the work of Unesco may  of women in education and other  speak again in favour of equal  satisfaction at this Conference  ers of delegations than is normally
2.12 Mr, President, permit me now to turn to a subject which assumes considerable weight in  the deliberations of Unesco meetings - I am referring to the mass media and information. I wish  to reaffirm the importance Austria attaches to the right of everyone to freedom of information,  which includes the freedom to receive and to impart information and ideas of all kinds, regard-  less of frontiers - rights which have been enshrined in international and regional covenants on  human rights. It is, however, clearly understood that the exercise of this right carries with it  certain responsibilities. In our view, the principle of freedom of information imposes on States  the obligation to protect information media from outside interference. On the other hand, the  State has an equal obligation to protect its society against the misuse and abuse of this basic right.  All measures in this sphere must be taken with great circumspection and in a manner compatible  with the essence of freedom of information. A great diversity of sources of information would in  itself not guarantee this freedom if manipulated by public authority. The view has been held that  freedom of information has to remain subject to the concept of State sovereignty - a view with  which my delegation cannot concur. We do not exclude the possibility that in the course of our  deliberations a consensus could be reached, Such a compromise, however, would have to safe-  guard the free flow of information and the right to receive and impart information on the one hand  and the right of States, on the other hand, to impose such restrictions as are necessary to pro-  tect the rights, freedoms and interests of others as provided for by law. The draft declaration  before the General Conference, as we see it, does not satisfy these requirements. In our opinion,  the prevailing ideas of this draft are based on the concept of State control. This is contrary to  certain fundamental provisions of the Austrian Constitution and in contradiction, inter alia, with  the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which entered into force only a few weeks  ago. You will understand that in these circumstances the Austrian delegation will not be able to  support the draft declaration in its present form.
2.13 Mr. President, the Austrian contribution to co-operation for development is well known.  In the field of science, Austrian universities, professional groups and individual researchers have  long played an active part in international exchanges. Our academic institutions are frequented  by young people from many parts of the world. More particularly within Unesco's sphere of  activity, it has been possible to organize a number of post-graduate courses in Austria. Austrian  academic teachers are strongly motivated to participate in this challenging task.
2.14 Among the research programmes promoted by Unesco, the international Programme on Man  and the Biosphere is of considerable interest to my country. Following the invitation extended by  Unesco to co-operate in this Programme, Austrian institutions and scientists are taking an active  part in two segments of the overall programme, those concerning ecosystems in mountain regions  and limnology. Apart from the purely scientific importance of the research work under way, the  special interest of these subjects derives from the interdependence and interaction of human activ-  ity and special environmental situations such as can also be found in Austria. As success in such  a complex project naturally depends on the close co-operation of specialists in many fields, a  Unesco meeting of experts took place in Austria at my country's invitation in 1973 to establish  guidelines for the international research project. An Austrian National Committee for the Man  and the Biosphere Programme was subsequently established. Austria is represented on the MAB  International Co-ordinating Council, and would appreciate the opportunity to continue to contribute  to its work. I am glad to be able to inform you that the Austrian Federal Minister for Science and  Research, Dr. Hertha Firnberg, has extended an invitation to the MAB International Co -ordinatirig  Council to hold its 1977 meeting in Austria. We hope that the Council will be in a position to  accept this invitation.
2.15 Mr. President, UNISIST, the intergovernmental programme for co-operation in the field of  scientific and technical information, has been consistently supported by my country. It is our  opinion - expressed also on previous occasions - that this programme should be integrated into  all related Unesco activities so as to avoid duplication. The increase envisaged in the number of  seats on the Steering Committee of UNISIST is welcomed by my delegation. This will enable a  larger number of Member States to take a more active part in the programme.  ppears to us to be worthy of
2.16 Th i itage throughout the world a e protection of the cultural heritag g rc is the problem of the  the most strenuous efforts. Beyond mere preservation, however,
11 revitalization of monuments that are in danger primarily because they have lost their original  function, We tend to agree with those who include valuable industrial monuments among those  worthy of protection and preservation. Moreover, there are the insidious threats, arising from  modern traffic and air pollution, to the continued existence of many among our most valued artis.  tic treasures. It is our belief that increasing attention should be paid by Unesco to the less obvi.  ous and perhaps less spectacular, but extremely grave aspects involved in the protection of our  artistic heritage which I have mentioned and which increasingly tend to affect all countries,
2.17 Having dealt with some of the aspects of the programme, Mr. President, I should like to  address a word of thanks at this point to those who make its execution possible - the capable men  and women in Unesco's Secretariat and in the Field.
2.18 Mr. President, before concluding this statement I should like to refer to some considers -  tions of a more general nature. I should not like to be counted among those who express indig-  criminate regret at the alleged increasing "politization" of this Organization. I am fully aware  that access to culture, or aspects of education, pose problems of high political relevance, Never-  theless, I cannot but reaffirm a view expressed previously by Austrian representatives on different  occasions. It is still our opinion that this Organization should refrain from taking up questions  which are already under consideration by the General Assembly or other United Nations bodies,
2.19 Mr. President, while - as I have attempted to show in the introductory part of this state-  ment - our attitude to the work of Unesco is a very positive one, you will allow me, I am sure,  to add a word of tempered criticism. Resolutions and certain other documents emanating from  this Organization show an increasing tendency toward verbosity, partly connected with an attempt  to provide detailed regulations for every aspect of a given problem. While fully recognizing the  hard work of high professional quality that has gone into the elaboration of such texts, I should  like nevertheless to point out that such methods of work also have considerable drawbacks, Too  much detail detracts from the basic goal pursued by a resolution and may hamper its implementa-  tion. A very detailed text cannot possibly take into account the special conditions prevailing in  any given region or Member States. Moreover, we are increasingly confronted with repetitive  and partially very similar regulations in different contexts which in practice might lead to contra-  dictions. All these disadvantages could be avoided, and the texts could be made more legible and  intelligible, if efforts could be concentrated on stipulating only the essential principles by which  States should be guided in dealing with a specific question.
2.20 Mr. President, 30 years ago, at the invitation of the Governments of France and the United  Kingdom, a conference was convened in London that brought about the establishment of Unesco,  It was Clement Attlee, the then British Prime Minister, who in his opening speech called attention  to the shortcomings of international co-operation as it then existed, and stressed the need to intro-  duce intellectual co-operation as a creative factor. And it was Léon Blum who formulated one of  the major ideals to be achieved by the new organization when he spoke of "... a world where peace  becomes a stable state, or rather a natural state of affairs, a world where the spirit of peace  becomes one of the guarantees - and perhaps the most reliable one - of peace itself". The better  nations know each other, the more aware men become of the manifold national cultures and their  values, the more difficult it will become for them to confront one another on the battlefield. This  belief, and their faith in the value of intellectual co-operation, inspired Unesco's founding fathers.  This is also our belief and our hope. Thank you, Mr. President.
3. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Austria, and I now call on the next speaker, H.E. Mr.  Humblet, Minister of French National Education and head of the delegation of Belgium.
4.1 M. HUMBLET (Belgique). -  Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Messieurs les Ambassadeurs, chers collègues de parle  monde, Mesdames, Messieurs, la délégation belge parlant au nom de mon pays tout entier, désire  exprimer à la délégation et au peuple indonésiens son entière sympathie au moment où une grande  épreuve s'abat sur ce pays ami. Nous nous inclinons avec émotion devant les victimes de cette  catastrophe,
4,2 Je suis particulièrement heureux de pouvoir présider la délégation belge à cette dix-neuvième  session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco, Je ne vous dis pas cela pour me conformer à l'usage,  mais parce qu'il me semble que cette session a trois caractéristiques particulières. Tout d'abord,  elle se tient en Afrique. C'est la première fois dans l'histoire de l'Unesco, et je considère celle  localisation comme le symbole de notre volonté de contribuer au développement d'un continent qui  nous est particulièrement cher, comme l'est d'ailleurs l'ensemble des pays en voie de développe-  ment. Je saisis cette occasion pour féliciter très chaleureusement S. Exc, M. Taaitia Toweett,  mon distingué collègue du Kenya, d'avoir été élu par acclamation à la présidence de la Conférence  générale. Ensuite, cette session cofncide avec le trentième anniversaire de la fondation de l'Unesc9.  Je laisserai à d'autres orateurs le soin de faire les bilans qui s'imposent en cette circonstance,  mais je saisirai l'occasion de cet anniversaire pour indiquer - du moins en certains domaines -  les orientations d'avenir que mon pays souhaite pour notre Organisation, Enfin, pour la pros  fois, un véritable projet de plan à moyen terme est présenté a la Conférence générale, ce qui tré  précisément facilite cette recherche des orientations d'avenir.
4,3 Ayant la charge d'un des deux départements de l'éducation na tional j'ai  de centrer mon discours sur les problèmes de ]' pale ds Tien pays jaidis tenté  . enseignement. Je n'ai résisté a cette tentatio e partiellement. Mais en lisant la remarquable introduction du Projet de plan à moyen terme - A du Directeur général qui mérite la plus large diffusion - j'ai perçu, apprécié et approuvé l'effort  qui a été fait par le Secrétariat pour établir un programme d'activités cohérent et dynamique, axé sur une analyse éclairant des réalités du monde contemporain. :
4,4 Nous sommes rassemblés ici, Mesdames, Messieurs, dans un souci commun d'accroître pour  tous, dans le monde, la part de liberté, d'assurer plus de justice et d'équité, de fonder les rap  ports entre les peuples et entre les hommes sur le respect de la dignité et sur la solidarité. Et je  souhaite rappeler a cette occasion combien mon pays est désireux de participer a tout projet sus-  ceptible de développer la connaissance mutuelle et la coopération. La promotion d'une libre cireu-  lation de l'information et des échanges internationaux nous apparaît comme un objectif essentiel  Nous souhaitons donc qu'une attention particulière puisse lui être accordée, ;
4.5 L'Unesco a l'avantage de se préoccuper d'un domaine - celui de l'éducation, de la science et  de la culture - où les influences, les apports et les emprunts réciproques ont été la règle de tout  temps et sont une source d'enrichissement. Un consensus peut y être atteint assez facilement sur  un ensemble de valeurs, dans la mesure où on les traduit en termes généraux, Mais cette facilité  implique un danger : celui d'en rester à des affirmations d'ensemble, de limiter son action à pro-  mouvoir une culture qui apparaftrait comme un épiphénomène. C'est un des mérites de notre insti-  tution que d'avoir essayé depuis plusieurs années, et notamment dans le nouveau Projet de plan à  moyen terme, de lier les problèmes posés par le développement culturel aux situations très con-  crètes que connaissent nos divers pays et que connaît le monde,
4,6 Ce désir d'avoir prise sur les problèmes réels nous a amenés à préciser le concept de "'déve-  loppement'', à mieux affirmer la part que l'éducation, la science et la culture peuvent et doivent  prendre à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international, Celui-ci dépend, en effet, non  seulement de facteurs politiques et économiques, mais aussi de facteurs socioculturels, dont le  rôle dans le développement des nations ne cesse de croître et qui sont essentiels à ces pays dans  leur marche vers leur pleine autonomie.
4.7 Pour moi, cet ordre économique est nécessairement indissociable d'un ordre social plus juste,  incompatible avec le maintien d'une ignorance qui empêcherait encore des milliers d'hommes et  de femmes de participer pleinement à l'oeuvre commune de développement. C'est dire l'importance  que revêt l'éducation dans l'effort entrepris par la communauté internationale pour la nécessaire  révision, au niveau planétaire, des rapports économiques et sociaux,
4.8 Affirmer que l'éducation doit être un instrument à privilégier tout au long du processus du  développement des nations, c'est reconnaître l'existence de liens étroits entre elle et le travail.  C'est elle qui permet en effet de former les formateurs et les cadres nationaux indispensables  dans les conditions technologiques actuelles, et qui constitue sans doute le meilleur moyen de  donner à l'ensemble d'une population la possibilité de prendre conscience des contraintes qui pèsent  sur elle pour l'aider ensuite à déterminer les voies qui l'amèneront à mieux assumer son propre  destin,
4.9 Il est, par exemple, nécessaire d'accorder à l'enseignement technique et professionnel la  place qui convient. En outre, on ne peut assez encourager les pays en développement à réétudier,  pour les rénover ensuite, les contenus et les méthodes de leur éducation générale ; ces contenus  et méthodes sont hérités de pays développés, et souvent mal adaptés aux situations locales. Une  place accrue doit être accordée dans les programmes scolaires aux sciences et aux techniques,  non seulement pour orienter plus d'élèves vers des carrières techniques indispensables au déve-  loppement, mais aussi pour donner à l'ensemble de la jeunesse de ces pays, outre une meilleure  compréhension de l'univers dans laquelle elle vit, une rigueur scientifique qui l'aidera ultérieure-  ment à rechercher l'efficacité dans l'action.
4,10 Vous conviendrez avec moi, Mesdames, Messieurs, que la véritable finalité de toute action  de développement c'est l'homme lui-même, son épanouissement, son bonheur de vivre ; ce qui  revient à souligner une fois encore l'importance de la dimension culturelle du développement.  Comment ne pas signaler combien je fais mienne cette réflexion du Directeur général, selon la-  quelle un nouvel ordre du monde devrait être celui d'une nouvelle forme de sagesse ? Car, du  même coup, s'éclaire la mission particulière que peut remplir l'Unesco dans le concept des orga-  nisations internationales. L'instauration d'un nouvel ordre international suppose que l'on se mette  d'accord sur un système de valeurs. Et où ce problème peut-il être mieux approché qu'au sein de  l'Unesco ?
4.11 Cette spécificité de l'apport de l'Unesco doit nous inciter, si nous voulons préserver l'effica-  cité de son action, à maintenir celle-ci dans le champ qui lui est propre. Ici, comme ailleurs, si  la coordination et la coopération entre institutions sont nécessaires, il y a lieu toutefois d'éviter  les chevauchements. Je reviendrai plus loin sur ce point, La notion de spécificité du développe-  ment et la nécessité bien affirmée de respecter, dans les actions entreprises, les caractéristiques  de chaque communauté, me paraissent également dignes d'être soulignées. Petit pays trilingue,  où vivent ensemble des populations participant à trois cultures différentes, la Belgique a appris
11   de l'histoire que, aussi bien pour les hommes que pour les peuples, le respect de l'autre est un  des fondements de leur dignité propre.
4.12 Est-il besoin de réaffirmer l'intérêt qu'accorde la Belgique à tout ce qui peut contribuer ay  respect des droits de l'homme ? Les problèmes qui y sont relatifs tiennent une grande place dans  nos programmes scolaires. En ce qui concerne l'amélioration de la condition de la femme, qui  fait l'objet de l'objectif 1.3, mon pays vient de prendre des mesures importantes d'ordre législatif  ou réglementaire, qui renforcent l'égalité réelle des femmes et des hommes,
4.13 La Belgique participera, dans toute la mesure de ses moyens, à la réalisation des objectifs  du chapitre V - "Action éducative. Elle est prête, plus particulièrement, à mettre à la disposi.  tion de l'Unesco l'expérience qu'elle a pu acquérir dans deux domaines que le plan considère comme  prioritaires : ceux de l'éducation préscolaire et de l'éducation spéciale, notamment celle des han-  dicapés. Je signale que dans mon pays l'éducation préscolaire est pratiquement généralisée depuis  assez longtemps, et ce, sans aucune obligation légale, dès l'âge de 3 ans. Des expériences viennent  d'être entreprises, qui doivent permettre d'étudier les conditions d'une meilleure coordination et  même d'une interpénétration entre l'éducation préscolaire et l'enseignement primaire,
4,14 En ce qui concerne la promotion de la formation des personnels de‘l'éducation (objectif 5,5),  on peut regretter que, dans le programme qui nous est soumis, la nécessité d'une prise en compte  de la dimension socio-économique dans cette formation et dans la détermination des profils des  nouveaux enseignants ne soit pas mieux prévue. On a souvent parlé, ces dernières années, de  l'enseignement de l'an 2000, Ne conviendrait-il pas d'analyser de façon plus méthodique les grands  axes selon lesquels devra se développer, dans une perspective de développement social, culturel,  scientifique et technologique accéléré, la formation des enseignants du futur ? Bref, c'est un cha-  pitre dont on souhaiterait qu'il puisse se développer avec plus d'audace prospective.
4.15 J'en viens maintenant au Projet de programme et de budget pour 1977-1978. A ce sujet je  voudrais commencer par formuler une réserve, Je ne dirais pas la vérité si j'affirmais que le  gouvernement belge a pris connaissance avec sérénité du montant du budget de l'Unesco pour 1977  et 1978. Un taux de croissance nettement plus élevé que celui du budget national de la Belgique a  de quoi nous effrayer, et nous impose la réflexion. Une réflexion d'autant plus nécessaire que le  phénomène de la croissance vertigineuse des budgets se retrouve dans tout le système des Nations  Unies. L'inflation et la fluctuation du cours des monnaies ne suffisent pas, à mon sens, àl'expli-  quer. Il y a d'autres causes plus fondamentales, parmi lesquelles je me contenterai d'en retenir  deux,
4.16 La première réside dans le fait des doubles emplois et des chevauchements, Dans le sys-  tème des Nations Unies, l'observateur attentif ne peut manquer de déceler une tendance de toutes  les organisations à s'occuper de tout. Combien d'organismes s'occupent de la paix, du désarmement,  de l'énergie, de la population, des sciences, de la technologie, etc, De toute évidence, les répar-  titions et les coordinations ne se font pas ou se font mal,
4.17 La seconde cause de croissance inconsidérée des budgets dans le système des Nations Unies  réside dans une augmentation excessive du nombre des fonctionnaires et des dépenses administra-  tives. Je rends hommage aux fonctionnaires qui se dévouent à l'idéal qui est le nôtre, et je sais  qu'ils sont nombreux au Secrétariat de l'Unesco. Mais il faut le dire avec force : une rationalisa-  tion s'impose, et dans la politique du personnel et dans la répartition des tâches des différentes  organisations des Nations Unies. Sans quoi, les budgets dépasseront - ils dépassent déjà, d'ailleurs  le seuil de ce qui est tolérable. Au demeurant, le problème des budgets est étroitement lié àcelui  de l'efficacité et donc, en définitive, à celui de la crédibilité.
4,18 Cette mise au point, qui m'a paru nécessaire, étant faite, je tiens à souligner que la Belgique  approuve les options majeures prises pour le budget 1977-1978 et se rallie aux grandes lignes dé-  finies pour sa réalisation.
4.19 En ce qui concerne le chapitre relatif à l'éducation, je voudrais relever quelques points qui  méritent, me semble-t-il, un commentaire, La Belgique suit avec un intérêt particulier le déve-  loppement des projets de la section 1, 16 ("Enseignement scientifique, technique et professionnel J:  Je dois rappeler ici qu'elle a joué un rôle de pionnier dans le domaine de l'enseignement technique  et professionnel, que cet enseignement a connu chez nous ces dernières années des développements  nouveaux et prometteurs, et que nous restons attentifs à tout ce qui est de nature à permettre  d'améliorer ce secteur de l'éducation, D'autre part, nous sommes confrontés, dans nos efforts  de réforme, au problème de la connexion, voire de l'intégration entre les sciences, la mathéma-  tique et la technologie, et au problème de l'éducation concernant l'environnement, C'est dire que  nous suivrons avec intérêt les développements des projets qui y sont relatifs. Je souhaite auss!  que le projet 1.16.6 ("Développement de l'enseignement extrascolaire des sciences et de la techno-  logie"!) puisse être poursuivi et élargi.
4.20 Un dernier point en ce qui concerne le chapitre de l'éducation. Il apparaît nettement, à la  lecture des documents 19 C/4 et 19 C/5, que les écoles associées ont gagné, ces dernières années  en importance et en efficacité. Je m'en réjouis, et la Belgique continuera ses efforts en vie de  développer le réseau des écoles associées et d'accroître leur action, Celle-ci se fait sentir, en
486      effet, dans presque tous les domaines : éducation, formati j  ; 5 ion des maîtres, jeunesse, envir e  droits de l'homme, migrants, etc. a : ry
4,21 Venant d'évoquer l'enseignement extrascolaire, je suis tout naturellement amené a me faire  l'écho des nombreux problèmes qui concernent l'éducation en dehors de l'école. Si 1!  l'évolution des structures au cours de ces dernières années, on se rend compte qu'en Belgique  après avoir été dotés d'un ministère de l'instruction publique, nous avons mis en place, pour :  chacune de nos deux communautés, un ministère intégré de l'éducation nationale et de la culture  géré conjointement par un ministre de l'éducation nationale et par un ministre de la culture  on considère
4,22 Par culture, nous entendons non seulement les aspects que, sans le moindre sens péjoratif  on appelle culture traditionnelle - musées, conservatoires, arts plastiques, théâtres, opéras ;  ballets - mais aussi tout le secteur que nous appelons l'éducation permanente, groupant sous l'auto  rité d'un même ministre la politique de la jeunesse, l'éducation populaire, la formation des cadres,  l'animation socioculturelle, la lecture publique et le développement culturel.
4.23 Il s'agit en effet de faire face au problème que, trop hâtivement peut-être, on a appelé la  civilisation des loisirs. Nous nous rendons compte aujourd'hui que la révolution scientifique et  technologique ne provoque pas uniquement une libération du temps de travail, mais que notre société,  par sa complexité même, crée beaucoup plus de temps contraint que de temps libre. Nous cons-  tatons que ce temps libre doit être pour beaucoup consacré au recyclage professionnel, à l'éduca-  tion récurrente, à la formation générale de plus en plus nécessaire et que, par conséquent, la  mise en place des structures de l'éducation permanente est un problème préoccupant.
4,24 J'entends par éducation permanente la mise sur pied d'un système cohérent et intégré, tant  de l'éducation scolaire que de l'éducation extrascolaire, de l'éducation formelle que de l'éducation  informelle, depuis la petite enfance jusqu'au troisième âge, couvrant aussi bien les problèmes de  spécialisation professionnelle que les problèmes d'épanouissement individuel et de prise de cons-  cience par tout citoyen de ses responsabilités vis-à-vis des diverses communautés de vie à laquelle  il appartient.
4,25 C'est pourquoi nous menons de plus en plus une politique qui, bien au-delà de la diffusion de  la culture, tend à la pratique de la démocratie culturelle, laquelle est fondée sur l'expression et  la créativité du plus grand nombre d'individus et la prise de conscience par chaque citoyen de son  devoir de participer à l'élaboration de son destin, C'est dans cet esprit qu'il faut comprendre les  expressions d'animation socioculturelle et de démocratisation de la culture,
4,26 Notre pays s'intéresse donc tout particulièrement aux problèmes qui concernent le développe-  ment de l'éducation des adultes, à laquelle il faut accorder une place autre que marginale dans le  budget national.
4,27 Aussi attachons-nous une grande importance au problème de l'accès des masses à la culture :  nous voulons dire que notre objectif n'est pas d'imposer aux masses une culture fabriquée en-dehors  d'elles, mais de créer pour chacun les conditions de la pratique culturelle.
4,28 Enfin, la Belgique a déposé un projet de résolution concernant la politique des loisirs et la  nécessité d'une réflexion commune plus approfondie encore sur le contenu qu'il faudrait donner au  concept de droit au loisir.
4,29 Le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1977-1978 n'a pas été très généreux à l'égard du  développement culturel. Je le regrette vivement. Mon pays approuve néanmoins la création d'une  banque européenne des données culturelles, et il s'est réjoui de la création d'un Fonds pour la  promotion de la culture,
4,30 L'important, en tout cas, est de contribuer à l'affirmation de l'identité culturelle des peuples.  C'est dans cet esprit, notamment, que ma délégation et plusieurs autres ont présenté une résolu-  tion qui doit permettre au Centre de perfectionnement et de recherche des interprètes du spectacle  (Mudra), dont beaucoup d'entre vous ont pu apprécier l'efficacité ici même à Nairobi, de mieux  réaliser un des objectifs culturels les plus importants de notre Organisation.
4,31 Faut-il le rappeler ? La Belgique a participé très activement sur tous les plans aux grandes  opérations de sauvetage ou de sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel de l'humanité. Je songe notamment  à Abou-Simbel, à Philae, à Borobudur. Nous entendons continuer à jouer ce rôle, tout comme nous  entendons continuer à accueillir toutes les réunions qu'il plaira à l'Unesco d'organiser en Belgique,
4.32 Mesdames, Messieurs, mon gouvernement a toujours attaché une attention particuliere aux  activités de l'Unesco en matière de politique scientifique et de recherche scientifique et techno-  logique, Il se réjouit dès lors de ce que les crédits proposés pour les "sciences exactes et natu-  relles et pour les "sciences sociales'' connaissent pour l'exercice 1977-1978 une croissance supé-  rieure à la moyenne, Cette croissance relative lui paraît d'autant plus nécessaire qu'enpourcentage  la part des "sciences! et des "sciences sociales!" demeure relativement faible dans le budget total.  Mon gouvernement s'interroge néanmoins sur le point de savoir si la répartition indicative par  objectifs des crédits figurant dans le plan à moyen terme est compatible avec la poursuite de la  croissance relative de la part des sciences dans le budget de l'Unesco. Toute autre évolution,
11 cependant, lui paraîtrait aller à contrecourant de la tendance générale au renforcement de li  porté aux sciences dans l'ensemble du système des Nations Unies. Pour prendre part à ce mouye.  ment, 1'Unesco devrait, aux yeux de la Belgique, donner plus d'envergure a 1'effort de renouvelle  ment entamé dans le secteur des sciences sous l'impulsion du Conseil exécutif.et du Directeur 2  général, A cette condition, l'Unesco pourrait devenir, au sein des Nations Unies, une institution  effectivement préparée a mener et & encadrer une activité accrue de promotion des recherches  visant à résoudre les problèmes de notre temps, eten particuliercelui, sicrucial, du développement,  ntérêt
4,33 Mon gouvernement a soumis à la Conférence générale divers projets d'amendement ay p  de programme et de budget, qui visent à stimuler l'adaptation des objectifs et des méthodes entre.  prises dans le secteur des sciences et à conforter ainsi la position de l'Unesco en vue de la  deuxième Conférence des Nations Unies sur l'application de la science etde la technique au déve-  loppement, prévue pour 1979.  rojet
4.34 Dans cette même perspective, la Belgique se félicite des mesures prises pour développer  l'activité de l'Unesco dans le domaine des "sciences sociales!’ et rapprocher ces dernières des  sciences exactes et naturelles''. Elle souhaite que ce processus se poursuive, et que se réalise  progressivement une intégration des activités de ces deux sous-directions, sans préjudice bien  entendu des liaisons souhaitables entre les "sciences sociales'' et "la culture. Si l'on considère  en effet, que la science, et surtout la recherche qui en est la partie vivante, sont essentiellement  des outils au service de finalités sociales, comme par exemple le développement, il faut chercher  à combiner les apports des différents groupes de sciences, au-delà des cloisonnemients du passé,
4.35 Dans ce même état d'esprit, la Belgique accueille avec satisfaction la proposition visant à  lancer un programme global en matière d'information, Il serait bon que ce programme, qui géné-  ralise les principes de l'UNISIST, conserve ce nom et la notoriété qui s'y attache, Il faudra veiller  à ce que ce programme unifié le soit en profondeur, pour que ne se recréent pas des oppositions  stériles basées sur des distinctions artificielles,
4.36 Mesdames, Messieurs, le moment étant venu de conclure, j'espère avoir pu vous donner,  en toute franchise mais aussi avec beaucoup de foi dans l'avenir, la position de mon gouvernement  sur un certain nombre de points qui nous sont soumis. Mais, tout en vous ayant parlé en ma qualité  de chef de la délégation belge, je me suis senti, je me sens parmi vous "un citoyen du monde", En  cela, je ne fais que suivre l'exemple du peintre belge Pierre-Paul Rubens, dont il est demande à  l'Unesco de souligner le quatrième centenaire de la naissance. En effet, Pierre-Paul Rubens  n'était pas seulement le peintre génial que l'on sait, mais aussi un inlassable artisan de la paix,  et il revendiquait pour lui-même le titre de citoyen du monde. Un titre qui vaut tous les autres,  et que je nous souhaite à tous de mériter au cours de cette dix-neuvième session de la Conférence  générale. Merci, Monsieur le Président,  STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT CONCERNING THE PAYMENT OF ARREARS OF  CONTRIBUTIONS  DECLARATION DU PRESIDENT CONCERNANT LE PAIEMENT DES ARRIERES DE  CONTRIBUTIONS  DECLARACION DEL PRESIDENTE RELATIVA AL PAGO DE LAS CONTRIBUCIONES  ATRASADAS
3AABIEHHE IPEICENATEJIS OTHOCHTEJbBHO BbIIJNATEI 3ATOIXEHHOCTH IO B3HOCAM  = ILE EVV 5e SN Lag Ub
5.1 The PRESIDENT: i  Ladies and gentlemen, I must interrupt the general policy debate briefly in order to deal wit  two matters of immediate concern.
5.2 In the first place, I have been informed by the Director-General that the Government of the.  Congo has now paid the totality of its arrears of contributions. Consequently, the name of that  Member State should be deleted from the proposed resolution contained in paragraph 6 of docu-  ment 19 C/22.  APPLICATION BY THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA FOR MEMBERSHIP OF UNESCO  (item 78 of the Agenda)  DEMANDE D'ADMISSION A L'UNESCO PRESENTEE PAR LA REPUBLIQUE POPULAIRE  D'ANGOLA (point 78 de l'ordre du jour)  SOLICITUD DE ADMISION EN LA UNESCO PRESENTADA POR LA REPUBLICA POPULAR  DE ANGOLA (Punto 78 del Orden del Dia)  IIPOCBBA HAPOIHOH PECHYBJIHKH AHTOJBI OINPHHATHH B YJIEHBI IOHECKO  (IlyukT 78 moBeCTKHU AHS)  ( JY ute Ge yA Lidl) Sill Boban dn tll Noo Ld pe ls
6. The PRESIDENT:  The second matter is the application by the People's Republic of Angola for membership of  Unesco, which the Conference agreed last week to place on its Agenda and which no ip oO  the Agenda as item 78. The relevant document is document 19 C/114 with its mE man  wish to remind you that, according to the provisions of Article II of the Contin. ll =  to Unesco of a State which isnota member of the United Nations is decided by a two-thirds ui it  vote of the General Conference on the recommendation of the Executive Board. I therefore ajority  the floor to the Chairman of the Executive Board to present the Board's Fra give
7.1 Mr. WYNTER (Jamaica), Chairman of the Executive Board:  Mr, President, as document 19 C/114 states, by letter dated 14 September this year  Mr, José Eduardo dos Santos, Minister of External Relations of the People's Republic of Angola  applied on behalf of his Government for the admission of the People's Republic of Angola to {  membership of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
7.2 As you have just stated, Mr. President, last week this Conference decided to place the  question on its Agenda as item 78, and the Conference is now being asked to act on a recommenda -  tion of the Board. That recommendation is set out in document 19 C/114, and it is contained in  paragraph 7 of the Board's resolution which is set out in paragraph 4 of the document, and, I will  read the recommendation to the General Conference:  "The Executive Board,  Recommends ... that the General Conference adopt the following resolution:  The General Conference,
1. Considering that the People's Republic of Angola, on 14 September 1976, applied  for membership of Unesco,
2. Considering likewise, that this Republic, in formulating its application, proclaimed  its willingness to abide by Unesco's Constitution, to accept the obligations contained  therein, and to contribute to the expenses of the Organization,
3. Having noted that the Executive Board, at its 100th session, recommended that the  People's Republic of Angola should be admitted as a Member State of Unesco,
4, Decides to admit the People's Republic of Angola as a Member State of Unesco'',  Mr. President, this resolution was adopted in the Board by a very wide consensus, with one  Member State abstaining and another Member State not participating in the vote, I therefore have  pleasure in proposing formally to the General Conference, through you, Mr. President, the reso-  lution contained in paragraph 4 of document 19 C/114, which I have just read. Thank you,  Mr. President.
8. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Executive Board for his explanation. Before we take a vote on  the resolution contained in paragraph 4 of document 19 C/114, I would like to remind you that, in.  conformity with Rule 94 of the Rules of Procedure, if you decide to admit the applicant country to  membership of Unesco, the Director-General will inform the People's Republic of Angola of the  decision that the General Conference has taken. According to the terms of this same Rule, the  People's Republic of Angola shall be considered as a member of the Organization with effect from  the date on which the Director-General has been informed that that country has presented to the  Foreign Office of the Government of the United Kingdom an Instrument of Acceptance and has  signed the Constitution. As many heads of delegations will wish to take the floor after the vote  has been taken, I propose, after the vote today, to call on the head of the Angolan delegation and  I ask all others who might have wished to speak to reserve their speeches for the day, certainly  not very far away, when Angola will effectively become a Member State of Unesco. I hope you  Will agree with this proposal. I give the floor to the delegate of China.
9.1 Mr. TIEN CHIN (China) (Speech delivered in Chinese; English text based on simultaneous  interpretation):  Mr. President, as to the question of the admission of Angola to membership of Unesco, the  Chinese delegation would like to make the following statement. The Angolan people, with the  support of the African people, and people all over the world, overthrew the colonial rule of  Portugal after protracted and arduous armed struggle and proclaimed their independence on
11 November 1975. On that occasion, the Chinese Government expressed its warm congratula -  tions to the Angolan people and the three Angolan liberation organizations.
9.2 But Angola's national unity, independence and sovereignty have suffered serious infringe-  ments because one super power, flaunting the banner of socialism and frenziedly pushing a policy  of aggression and expansion, sowed dissension, fomented discord among the three liberation
11  aying them off one against another, outrageously interfered in Angolas  internal affairs, provoked and even directly took part in the civil war in Angola. Proceeding  from the fundamental interests ofthe Angolan people's and the other African peoples" struggle  against imperialism, colonialism and the contention for hegemony, we are resolutely Opposed to  the continued armed intervention in Angola by that super power, the self-styled, so-called natural  ally of the African people. In view of the fact that this super power is still hanging on in Angola,  the Chinese delegation resolutely opposes furnishing it with any pretext to prolong its acts of  aggression and intervention.  organizations in Angola by pl
9.3 For this reason, if a vote is takenon application of Angola for membership of Unesco, we  will not participate in it. Mr. President, the Government and people of China have always sup-  ported the Angolan people in their just struggle for national liberation. We have deep sympathy  for the Angolan people's present predicament and we firmly believe that the people of Angola will  certainly triumph over all foreign aggression and foreign intervention, and build a new Angola  with independence, unity and national solidarity. Thank you, Mr. President.
10.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you for that statement, which will be recorded in the verbatim records of the General  Conference. We shall now vote on the admission of the People's Republic of Angola as a Member  State of Unesco.  (Voting was by show of hands.)
10.2 The results of the vote are as follows: 104 in favour, none against and 3 abstentions,
10.3 The admission of the People's Republic of Angola to Unesco is approved,
10.4 I now give the floor to the representative of the People's Republic of Angola.
11.1 Mr. BOAVIDA (Angola) (Speech delivered in Portuguese, English text supplied):  Mr. President, honourable delegates, I am deeply honoured to be present at this nineteenth  session of the General Conference of Unesco. This is the first time that my delegation, repre-  senting the Government and people of the People's Republic of Angola, has had the right to parti-  cipate as a member in this Conference. We feel still more honoured and pleased as it is the first  time also that the Conference is taking place in Africa. Therefore we are very grateful to those  countries which have supported our application for membership of Unesco.
11.2 Mr. President, we are here thanks to the hard and heroic struggle of our people who dared  to defy colonial repression both in a political struggle which lasted several years and in 14 years  of fighting in two hard wars for national liberation. After having defeated Portuguese colonialism,  it has still been necessary to fight again against all sorts of 'marionettes'’ paid by imperialist  forces, to fight against mercenaries and invading armies, including the army of racist South Africa  as everyone knows. We are here because the courage of our people and international solidarity  have shown once more that the servants paid with dollars soaked in blood or the mercenary troops  sent by the authorities of the imperialist countries are not invincible. We are here because the  people of Angola fought and defeated the South African army, an army which "worked'' with the  criminal complicity of some western countries who are favourable to apartheid. We are here  thanks to the sacrifice of thousands and thousands of unknown heroes who gave their lives for the  independence of Angola, We are here because fighting for the defence of our human and cultural  values, fighting for the dignity of the Angolan as a true man, we fulfilled the principles defined  by Unesco,
11.3 We have been accused of being mortal enemies of the imperialist countries because we have  fought on behalf of those same principles. Those imperialist countries have done everything so  that we might not be here and have prevented with a desperate veto our entry into the United Nations,  Now we have become a member of Unesco and soon we shall be a member of the United Nations,  even though it might not please the old-fashioned regimes which are invoking old-fashioned  prerogatives.
11.4 The People's Republic of Angola is now an independent country in which everyone is working  to build a just society without exploitation of man by man, a society which will gradually lead to  socialism. In such a society there will not be any place for the cultural obscurantism which we  have as a heritage of colonialism and which imperialism wants to maintain. The Government of  the People's Republic of Angola has therefore established as a priority the fight against ignorance.  As you know, we have not yet completed one year of independence and the military victory was  achieved only seven months'ago. A great part of the country has been destroyed by the war and  that is why it is not yet possible for us to present you with substantial results of the fight in which  we are now engaged: the fight for the national reconstruction of our country, But our liberatiod  movement, the MPLA, has defined as a priority task to give our people the right to education and  culture. The People's Republic of Angola has therefore nationalized all private schools as the  first step to making possible the principle of free and compulsory schooling for all.
11.5 The main purposes of the educational policy defined many years ago by the MPLA and  adopted in the freed regions are based on three fundamental points: (1) education for everyone
490   without distinction of social class, race or region of origin; (2) a revolutionary educational trai  ing for the creation of à new man; (3) a union between teaching and production in order dE  theory with practice. At present, the People's Republic of Angola is engaged in changin oe  structure of the educational system, putting an end to the élitist colonial system and ei the  principles of socialist education which grants to the whole people the same basic amont ñ
11,6 As most of the population of Angola cannot read or write - another heritage of colonialism -  our Government has decided to fight as long as necessary to win one more victory in that field  A vast adult literacy campaign is going to be undertaken very soon and will cover priority sections  of the population, This campaign is to be followed by a system of lifelong education. This edu-  cational revolution requires means and manpower that we cannot afford to have at this moment -  a great task which might discourage some, but not the heroic Angolan people. We are certain  however, that everything will be done for we count upon the militant strength of the whole people  and the help of our friends, the socialist countries, the progressive African countries as well  as Unesco.
11.7 This is because Unesco has actively participated in the fight against cultural obscurantism  and has suffered a great deal of intolerable pressure by those who are always against all peoples  of the world. The best known example of this is the blackmail some of the members of Unesco  are waging by not paying their contributions to the Organization. This is a normal situation that  comes as a surprise only to naive persons who believe in the friendship these nations consistently  profess. We, the Government of the People's Republic of Angola, consider this situation quite  normal as it is the logical consequence of imperialist capitalism, We have felt in our own bodies  other signs of the same desperate political line and the peoples of Zimbabwe, Namibia, Azania  and Palestine are presently feeling it even more bitterly, There is nothing to be expected, there  is nothing to be asked for; just move ahead.
11.8 At this moving moment, Mr. President, I should like to express on behalf of the President  of the MPLA and of the People's Republic of Angola, Comrade Agostinho Neto, and on behalf of  our Government, our total solidarity with the people who fight for freedom ag this is the first step  that leads to educational and cultural progress. We learn in day-by-day practice what proleterian  internationalism is, a lesson which is taught so well by the socialist countries. If we are to be  good teachers, as we learn the lessons, so must we also teach them. And so the people of Angola,  the vanguard movement of the MPLA, and the Government of the People's Republic of Angola under  the leadership of our President, Comrade Agostinho Neto, emphasize the total support for the  suffering and heroic peoples of Zimbabwe, Namibia, Azania, Palestine, the Sahrawi Arab Republic,  East Timor ... and all those, who fight against imperialism, neo-colonialism, racism and apart-  heid, The fight goes on; the victory is certain, Thank you, Mr, President.
12. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the representative of the People's Republic of Angola for his  exposition, I am sure that you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to express our great satis-  faction at this further step of Unesco towards universality.  (Mr. Thompson, Jamaica, took the chair.)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)/DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)/ DEBATE  DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)/  OBCYXIEHHE BONPOCOB OBNEX MONHTHKH (npomonxenue) ( e=b) do ladliulod) asl
13. The PRESIDENT:  We now return to the general debate and I call upon H.E. Mr. René Haby, the Minister of  Education and the head of the delegation of France, to address us.
14.1 M. HABY (France), -  Avant d'intervenir dans le débat général, permettez, Monsieur le Président, que je dise a  quel point je suis affecté par le drame qui vient de se produire a quelques milliers de kilometres  d'ici, renouvelant les malheurs que les convulsions géologiques de l'écorce terrestre ont suscitées  depuis un certain nombre d'années dans différents pays. La République francaise et son gouverne-  ment s'associent au deuil du peuple indonésien et lui expriment leurs condoléances et leur profonde  Sympathie,
14,2 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur  général, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, je voudrais d'abord vous dire combien je suis sen-  sible à la signification particulière de cette dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale de  l'Unesco. Elle se tient durant l'année où nous célébrons le trentième anniversaire de la fondation  de notre Organisation. Mais surtout, pour la première fois depuis que l'Unesco dispose d'un Siège  permanent, elle se tient en Afrique, ce continent à la fois ancien par ses cultures originales, par  cette sagesse ancestrale dont nos débats peuvent judicieusement s'inspirer, et jeune aussi par sa  Population et par les espoirs qu'elle porte. Permettez au représentant de la France de vous dire  que son gouvernement est très heureux de ce choix. Entre l'Afrique et la péninsule européenne, de  part et d'autre de cette grande mer intérieure si justement appelée Méditerranée, existe une amitié
11 très ancienne et plus vivante que jamais. La France, pour sa part, est fière d'entretenir avec toy  les peuples de votre continent des relations amicales, et souvent des relations privilégiées, $
14,3 Me tournant maintenant vers vous, Monsieur le Président, je ne manquerai pas, en vous  félicitant de votre brillante élection, de vous remercier de l'hospitalité que votre pays nous offre  Je vous demanderai de bien vouloir transmettre au Président et au gouvernement de votre Répu- ;  blique les félicitations du gouvernement francais, pour la remarquable capacité d'organisation dont  vous avez fait preuve en accueillant cette session de la Conférence générale, dans des conditions  particulièrement satisfaisantes pour tous.
14.4 Notre reconnaissance s'adresse également à vous, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif  qui avez tant contribué au succès, déjà acquis, de notre grande réunion biennale, ’
14.5 En la personne de notre actuel directeur général, Monsieur Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, notre  Organisation a eu la rare fortune de trouver un animateur et un guide dont chacun de nous reconnaît  la compétence, la haute idée qu'il a de ses responsabilités internationales, et les qualités humaines  dont le courage n'est pas la moindre, ;
14.6 Mieux que personne, Monsieur M'Bow sait que la France considère comme un privilège d'être  le pays hôte de l'Organisation ; elle lui accorde un appui qui ne s'est pas démenti, et que le prési-  dent de la République française, M. Giscard d'Estaing, a tenu à réaffirmer, en termes particu-  lièrement chaleureux, en une occasion récente.
14.7 Enfin, comment ne pas évoquer ici le souvenir de René Maheu qui, après avoir occupé pen-  dant treize années, et avec tant d'éclat, le poste de directeur général de notre Organisation, nous  a quittés en décembre de l'année dernière ? Je suis sûr d'exprimer le sentiment unanime de cette  assemblée en saluant, une nouvelle fois, solennellement sa mémoire,
14.8 Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, je voudrais vous dire, de la manière la plus simple  et la plus directe possible, au nom du gouvernement français, comment nous envisageons l'apport  de l'éducation, de la culture et de la science à l'instauration de ce nouvel ordre international qui  est l'objet de nos préoccupations. J'y suis encouragé par le climat de franchise intellectuelle qui  est de règle dans cette assemblée. J'y suis encouragé aussi, Monsieur le Directeur général, par  votre remarquable ouvrage, ""Le monde en devenir", qui définit avec tant de clarté et de précision  aussi bien le concept même de ce nouvel ordre, notamment dans ses aspects économiques, que  les différentes actions susceptibles de le faire entrer dans les faits.
14.9 Je ne m'étendrai pas sur les déséquilibres bien connus qui caractérisent la situation présente  et nous ont conduits à reconnaître la nécessité d'un changement. Je ne décrirai pas davantage les  solutions que ce changement appelle au niveau économique, Vous connaissez à ce sujet la position  de la France : le Président de la République française l'a soulignée récemment, Pour nous, le  rééquilibrage doit porter à la fois sur les échanges, sur les activités et sur les revenus, Mais ce  qui me frappe particulièrement, c'est que l'insatisfaction existe à la fois dans les pays développés  et dans les pays en développement, même si elle prend ici et là des formes en partie, mais en  partie seulement, différentes.
14.10 Les pays en développement contestent le modèle de société industrielle classiquement appelé  occidental, pour deux raisons. D'une part, la croissance apparemment indéfinie de la production  et de la consommation dans les pays riches creuse un écart d'autant plus irritant qu'il semble à  la fois irréductible et fondé sur une injustice, D'autre part, l'introduction, même limitée, de ce  modèle industriel dans les pays en développement déclenche des processus de déculturation, sui-  fisamment amples pour menacer à terme la conscience qu'ils ont de leur identité et, par conséquent,  la survie même de leur civilisation.
14.11 Parallèlement, les pays développés sont amenés à s'interroger aujourd'hui sur les incon-  vénients d'un type de croissance essentiellement caractérisé par la constance d'une accélération  quantitative. L'idée s'y fait jour, peu à peu - et, fait remarquable, plus particulièrement chez les  jeunes - que ce développement incontrôlé risque d'aboutir à la fois à un épuisement rapide des  ressources naturelles et à la détérioration irréparable de l'environnement, Il est donc nécessaire  que les pays industrialisés prennent en compte ces facteurs nouveaux. L'idée de la qualité de la  croissance l'emporte sur le phénomène quantitatif, La question du déséquilibre entre pays déve-  loppés et pays en développement peut se présenter alors sous un jour nouveau, Il reste cependant  plus que jamais nécessaire de réduire l'écart, scientifique et technologique, qui sépare les pays  les plus avancés dans la voie de l'industrialisation et ceux qui s'y sont engagés plus récemment.
14.12 Un grand nombre d'Etats membres expriment ainsi un désir croissant, et parfaitement  légitime, de mieux équilibrer les échanges scientifiques et technologiques, A la notion de trans-  ferts à sens unique et surtout de transferts globaux opérés en quelque sorte mécaniquement, is  opposent l'idée que la contribution de l'Unesco devrait viser avant tout à faciliter la constitution  de centres de recherche scientifique et technique indépendants, permettant des développements  selon des voies qui leur sont propres.
14.13 Une implantation de tels centres actifs peut contribuer fortement en effet à réduire le fossé  qui sépare les pays en développement des pays industrialisés, Mais elle demande d'abord une vor
492   lonté ferme et continue de la part de pays qui ont, peut-être tro  ment profiter des découvertes faites ailleurs, ou importer avec  ne sont pas les maîtres, Les pays en développement semblent pr  de leur responsabilité à cet égard et comprendre que seule une c  appuyée sur l'activité des universités scientifiques locales, peut  des technologies appropriées, dont on parle d'une façon un  au fond, des adaptations aux conditions locales de 1!  p longtemps, pensé pouvoir simple-  profit des technologies dont ils  endre une conscience plus nette  apacité scientifique nationale,  déboucher sur le développement  un peu trop générale, mais qui sont surtout,  acquis technologique de l'humanité.
14,14 Il y a là une voie d'action qui mérite d'être étudiée de très près, Chacun comprend que la  transposition pure et simple d'une technologie donnée d'un pays dans un autre sans que soient prises  en compte les caractéristiques particulières - sociales, économiques ou culturelles - de chacun  de ces pays risque d'avoir des conséquences plus négatives que positives. Si la science pure, si la  recherche fondamentale, sont universelles, la technologie en revanche est étroitement liée à la  fois à une situation particulière et à la mentalité des hommes qui l'utilisent, Elle n'est pas sépa-  rable de son contexte.
14.15 Faut-il en conclure que la notion d'importation technique est condamnée ? Certes, évidem-  ment pas. Je constate que, dans la longue histoire de l'humanité, le progrès des techniques, tout  comme celui des connaissances, des philosophies et des religions, a été fondé sur l'échange. Où  sont nés pour la première fois le feu, la roue, l'élevage, la métallurgie, l'agriculture sur jachère,  les assolements ? Nous l'ignorons, et j'ajouterai qu'il est heureux que nous 1'ignorions. Le propre  du génie humain est de ne pas avoir de frontières, Encore qu'il faille reconnaître le mérite de son  créateur, et le soutien que lui apporte son environnement, toute invention est destinée à appartenir  finalement à tous les hommes, Il importe donc de prendre des dispositions pour que les informa-  tions scientifiques et techniques circulent librement entre les peuples, et pour que chaque peuple  ait la capacité d'adapter ces techniques aux exigences de la situation qui lui est propre. Telle est  la direction dans laquelle il convient, je pense, que s'orientent les efforts de l'Organisation, si  nous voulons donner à nos problèmes des solutions réalistes et positives.
14.16 C'est dans cet esprit, et en vue de la préparation d'une contribution décisive de l'Unesco  à la future Conférence des Nations Unies, qu'il importe de donner la priorité la plus élevée à ce  renforcement de l'action scientifique de l'Unesco.
14.17 Libre communication, adaptation nécessaire : ces mêmes principes doivent aussi inspirer  l'action de l'Unesco dans le domaine de l'éducation. Ici encore, ce serait en effet une erreur que  de croire qu'une solution convenant à un pays est automatiquement applicable à un autre. Et c'est  pourquoi je suis personnellement quelque peu sceptique sur l'intérêt de programmes globaux d'édu-  cation, même appliqués à des nations semblables par leur organisation économique et politique,  Un système éducatif bien conçu doit en effet tenir compte non seulement des besoins et des aspirations  générales des populations etnotammentdes jeunes, mais encore de traditions culturelles et péda-  gogiques nationales. Pour ne prendre qu'un exemple, le système français des grandes écoles pré-  parant les futurs ingénieurs n'a pas d'équivalent dans un pays pourtant aussi proche du mien, par  l'histoire, par la géographie et par le coeur, que le Royaume-Uni, S'il est un domaine où il est  vain, et par conséquent déraisonnable de copier littéralement son voisin, c'estbien celui de l'éducation,
14.18 Et pourtant, c'est un autre fait que, partout dans le monde, la question de l'éducation des  jeunes se pose dans des termes de plus en plus comparables. Pour chacun de nos pays, il s'agit  de trouver un juste équilibre entre des impératifs distincts et parfois contradictoires : les ministres  de l'éducation ici présents savent bien en ce domaine quelle est la délicatesse de leur tâche. Nous  nous efforçons tous de faire de l'école un facteur de promotion de la totalité des enfants de nos  pays avec un sousi permanent de l'égalisation de leurs chances, sans pour autant oublier la néces-  sité d'élever sans cesse le niveau des connaissances, la qualité des formations, la spécialisation  et la profondeur de certaines d'entre elles. Aucun d'entre nous n'ignore que généraliser la culture  au prix d'un abaissement de son niveau irait très exactement à l'encontre des buts poursuivis, et  que la démocratisation de l'enseignement n'a rien à voir avec le nivellement par le bas.
14,19 De même il est indispensable de concilier dans nos programmes culture générale et forma-  tion professionnelle. Cette dernière pouvant conduire à un métier est d'ailleurs riche elle-même  de valeur culturelle. La possibilité pour un jeune de poursuivre en même temps une formation géné-  rale et une préparation professionnelle s'épaulant mutuellement est un élément essentiel de la ré-  forme que j'ai entrepris de réaliser en France,
14,20 Je suis persuadé que chacun de nos gouvernements s'efforce à sa manière de parvenir à  de telles synthèses, à de tels équilibres ; il est donc d'un très grand intérêt que ces expériences  différentes, qui constituent autant de solutions apportées à des problèmes spécifiques, fassent  l'objet d'échanges internationaux, échanges ne portant pas seulement sur des informations mais  aussi sur des services, L'Unesco est particulièrement qualifiée pour assurer cette mission de  communication et pour organiser, partout où elles s'avèrent nécessaires, des actions ponctuelles  d'entraide réciproque, la France y apportera, pour sa part, toute sa contribution,
14.21 J'en viens maintenant à la question, particulièrement actuelle, des see de masse.  À dire vrai, elle se présente de façon très différente selon que l'on pense à son de ces  Moyens à l'intérieur d'un pays donné, ou à leur inégale répartition d'un pays à l'autre. Pour me  limiter provisoirement à la première approche, je remarque que personne, à ma connaissance,
11 n'a encore pleinement maftrisé les possibilités culturelles extraordinaires que nous offre la faculté  de transmettre instantanément et à très grande distance les images et les sons. Sur le plan techni  les progrès réalisés dans ce domaine sont extrêmement spectaculaires : il me suffira de reppaie  que le satellite Symphonie nous met en ce moment même en contact permanent avec le Siège de  notre Organisation à Paris. Mais, comme il arrive souvent, l'homme semble marquer une Certain  hésitation dans l'utilisation des mécanismes qu'il a su créer. Ainsi, en dépit des efforts faits en  l'Unesco dans ce domaine, et des réalisations intéressantes de certains pays, la radio et la télé.  vision restent encore trop peu utilisées dans nos écoles, alors qu'elles pourraient, dans certains  cas précis, soutenir l'enseignement du professeur, Il n'est pas sûr non plus que nous sachions  toujours prendre en compte dans l'action d'enseignement les informations que la radio et la télé.  vision, mais aussi le cinéma et la presse apportent en dehors de l'école à l'ensemble d'une popu-  lation et en particulier aux jeunes, Il y a 1a une voie de formation directe extrêmement importante  encore qu'insuffisamment explorée. ’
14.22 Reconnaissons d'ailleurs qu'elle comporte également ses dangers, qui font comprendre  peut-être dans une large mesure les hésitations des éducateurs. Ce qu'on a appelé fort justement  "l'école parallèle" risque, d'abord, de faire apparaître l'école tout court comme inutile, et aussi  sous l'influence prédominante de l'audiovisuel, de masquer le caractère irremplaçable du message  écrit. Mais nous pensons surtout à l'extraordinaire pouvoir des images sur de jeunes esprits  encore impressionnables et dépourvus d'expérience, Pensons également aux possibilités de mani-  pulation qui sont ainsi offertes à des forces politiques ou économiques, décidées à utiliser les  prestiges redoutablement efficaces de la publicité ou de la propagande.
14.23 Aussi, dans le cadre de nos systèmes d'éducation, il me semble indispensable de développer,  au fur et à mesure que nous utiliserons davantage les moyens de communication de masse, une  initiation à la lecture critique de ces messages, À cette condition seule, les progrès de la science  contribueront réellement à l'épanouissement de la liberté humaine, non à son altération ou à son  effacement.
14.24 J'en viens maintenant au problème de l'information envisagé sous son aspect international,  lequel suscite ici même certaines inquiétudes, Il n'est pas douteux que les messages diffusés par  la presse et ses agences, par la radiodiffusion et par la télévision, ne sont jamais indifférents,  si scrupuleur, si objectifs que soient ceux qui les émettent. Un certain équilibre des moyens dont  disposent, dans ce domaine, nos différentes nations, apparaît donc souhaitable, La France, pour  sa part, y contribue déjà en offrant une coopération technique aux pays les moins bien pourvus  dans ce secteur ; mais elle estime que l'Unesco a un rôle essentiel à jouer dans ce domaine, Bien  entendu, nous ne saurions accepter l'idée que ce rééquilibrage puisse là encore favoriser la créa-  tion de systèmes d'informations autarciques, limitant la libre circulation des messages à travers  le monde. Dans une telle hypothèse, en effet, la situation actuelle ferait place à des solutions  incontestablement pires, caractérisées par la rétention, le cloisonnement, l'absence volontaire  d'objectivité de l'information à l'intérieur d'un pays ou d'un ensemble de pays.
14.25 Or, aux termes de son Acte constitutif, l'Unesco s'est donné pour mission de "faciliter la  libre circulation des idées et celle de l'information". Tous les efforts qui sont et seront faits pour  étendre cette liberté fondamentale, notamment en diversifiant les sources d'information, sont  assurés du soutien du gouvernement français. Encore faut-il qu'en aucun cas le pouvoir collectif  d'informer ne puisse faire obstacle au droit individuel de s'informer, qui constitue l'un des plus  imprescriptibles des droits de l'homme. La liberté d'information, la liberté d'expression, la  liberté de pensée, ne sont qu'une seule et même chose. Toute vérité naît du dialogue et par suite,  dans l'ordre intellectuel, la communication n'est seconde qu'en apparence ; la pensée en fait est  fille de la communication,
14.26 Ainsidonc, dans les secteurs complémentaires qui correspondent à la finalité de notre  Organisation - la science, l'éducation, la culture - nous pouvons, par des actions spécifiques, Col-  tribuer efficacement à l'instauration d'un ordre international plus équilibré et plus juste, Il est  bien clair que mettre à la disposition de chaque peuple un capital de connaissances technologiques  adapté à sa situation particulière, l'aider à renforcer son système d'éducation, lui fournir des  moyens de communication de masse qui lui permettront de mieux affirmer sa personnalité et de  mieux faire entendre sa voix, c'est aussi lui donner les moyens de développer sa puissance écono-  mique, d'accroître son autonomie, d'affirmer sa culture et son existence propres.
14,27 Comment ne pas voir cependant qu'en présentant les choses sous cette forme nous manquons  peut-être l'essentiel ? Vous l'avez excellemment dit vous-même, Monsieur le Directeur général,  et je me permettrai de vous citer : "Pour fonder réellement un ordre international nouveau, avez:  vous dit, il faut s'accorder d'abord sur un système de valeurs et accepter d'en voir ensemble les  implications : valeurs de justice, d'égalité, de liberté, de solidarité. Celles-ci reposeront sur une  double prise de conscience : la reconnaissance de l'unité de l'humanité dans la diversité de ses  peuples, de ses races, de ses cultures ; l'affirmation d'un vouloir-vivre ensemble, ressenti non  pas seulement comme une nécessité de survie ou de cohabitation, mais comme un choix de destin  à forger en commun et une responsabilité à l'égard de l'avenir de l'espèce humaine, Telle était  votre position,
14.28 Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, lorsque pour la première fois l'image de notre planète:  la planète bleue, est apparue sur les écrans de télévision, un événement s'est produit dont nous
494   n'avons peut-être pas encore mesuré toute 1!  notre espèce a pris d'un seul coup physique  temps que de son isolement dans 1'  de la terre avec elle-même, dans ce cadre lumineux faisant office  que nous ne sachions déjà depuis Copernic et depuis Galilée,  sous-estimer la valeur de cette rencontre. Qui peut douter,  monde et de l'unicité de son destin ? Dans cette perspective,  celle des philosophes, mais qui est désormais celle de tous, et qui est ressentie par tous les  peuples, la mission de notre Organisation est plus actuelle que jamais. Elle s'affine même et elle s'enrichit, Depuis trente ans, ses objectifs essentiels ont consisté à promouvoir la paix et la fra-  ternité humaine, à défendre les droits de l'homme et les libertés fondamentales, à oeuvrer pour  la solidarité. Aujourd'hui, elle a entrepris en outre de préserver, d'encourager, de développer  les spécificités culturelles nationales. Mais demain, l'approche de l'an 2000 va accroître consi-  dérablement les communications internationales et les contacts entre civilisations ; il appartiendra  à l'Unesco de se pencher sur la nécessaire synthèse entre la pluralité des cultures et l'universa-  lisme des valeurs.  qui fut toujours celle des savants et
14,29 Si nous savons les uns et les autres dominer la tendance naturelle de chaque homme et de  chaque peuple à surestimer sa propre importance et sa contribution à l'oeuvre commune, si, au  lieu de conseiller, d'admonester, voire de condamner, nous nous mettons à l'écoute des autres,  si nous nous efforçons de les comprendre même sur les plans où ils nous semblent les plus cri-  tiquables et les plus éloignés de nous, si nous faisons cet effort, si nous prenons sur nous-mêmes  d'aller les mains ouvertes vers celui qui se croit ou que nous croyons notre ennemi, alors nous  ferons véritablement de notre Organisation le coeur et l'âme de la communauté internationale, alors  nous apporterons la preuve qu'il est possible de créer un monde plus serein, plus intelligent, et  plus fraternel,
15, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of France and I offer the floor to the Hon. John E, Reinhardt,  Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs, the Department of State, who is head of the delegation of  the United States of America,
16.1 Mr. REINHARDT (United States of America):  Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, distinguished delegates; first, Mr. President, I  would like to join my colleagues here today in extending to the Government and to the people of  Indonesia, at the time of the catastrophe announced there this morning, the sympathy of the  Government and the people of the United States, and our sincere hope for rapid rehabilitation  and normalization.
16.2 President Kenyatta set the tone for this Conference last Tuesday morning with his call for  "Harambee!'. Let us work together for the good of all, our distinguished host urged. This  thirtieth anniversary Conference of Unesco must heed President Kenyatta's exhortation. For  here in Kenya we must begin to develop a new working consensus if Unesco is to play an effective  part in a changing global system of social and economic relations. Let us be clear about where  we stand. The last General Conference ended in dissension. That dissension must be overcome.  A new basis for consultation and co-operation must be adopted. I recall a Swahili proverb which  says: ''One stone will not support a cooking pot'. In a world where interdependence has become  one of the basic elements of our existence we must keep our foundation stones together - or our  Organization, too, may fall to the ground. The United States is present at this Conference to  work with all nations to find a basis for consultation and co-operation.
16.3 A few months ago, in this same Conference Hall, Secretary Kissinger stressed this same  point. Speaking at the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Dr. Kissinger noted  that the accelerating forces of modernization - technological, social and political - link the peoples  of the world as never before. These forces can intensify conflict. Or they can provide us with  unprecedented possibilities for advancing our common aims. All nations are part of a global,  economic system, If this system is to flourish, it must rest on the firm foundation of jar Le  fairness and opportunity for all who wish to participate - rich and poor, North and South, ne  and West, consumer and producer. ‘It must embrace the interests of all if it is to be supporte  by all.
16.4 How do we achieve this objective? First, there must be commitment by all to bring su  à constructive and co-operative relationship between the so-called developed a EE  developing countries. I say "so-called", because all States, in a sense, are evo cn  tinually advancing in accordance with its own cultural strengths, each with its HR EE  past, each according to its own potentialities, each using its own model or vs ; à ig  opment, No one model, no one ideology should be unduly advocated, Noone mode ftviand  unduly condemned, The United States bases its successful development on growth on a ir  Justice, on the benefits of a free market economy, and on stressing ban rights, = ar in doms, a free press, freedom of choice, the abundance of educational ee cn trie.  exchange of ideas and information. These are our beliefs. We ‘share them wit a foe  around the world, Other nations choose other roads, but there is no reason why > ; . Sen  to conflict. Nor should this impede the building of a more stable and just iene Sha  an order resting not on power but on restraint of power, not on the strengt
495   strength of the human spirit. Unesco can take the lead in this challenge. The central issue js  to reduce the continued disparities between the rich and the poor within countries and between  developed and developing countries, in order to achieve growih with equity and to pay special  attention to the poorest of the poor within nations and among nations.
16.5 To accomplish these goals, we must build upon the constitutional foundation stones of Unesco:  the sharing and the encouraging of development in education, science and culture. We in 1  United States are wholeheartedly dedicated to these specific goals. And we recognize that Unesco  has already made significant contributions in each of these areas. The First and Second Develop-  ment Decades represent giant steps in concept, The Director-General's mid-decade report  (document 19 C/72) details progress being made. Unesco's analytic work on this report is  impressive. Especially important, for example, is the emphasis given by the report to the role  of women, the improvement of education, and the increased consideration accorded to other social  factors in the development process. Much can be expected from long-range scientific and techno-  logical planning and sharing, and great credit here goes to Unesco. For example, the entire  United Nations system, under the leadership of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, is  mobilizing to address the issue of science and technology applied for development. A major con-  ference has been proposed for 1979. The United States strongly supports its objectives and hag  offered to host this Conference, Preparations for it will provide opportunities for the developed  and developing countries and for organizations such as Unesco to review their responsibilities  for the sharing and use of technology. This presents an important opportunity for Unesco, together  with its companion United Nations agencies, each having major contributions to make in science  and technology, to mount a concerted attack on this problem.
16.6 Mr. President: the United States delegation would like to congratulate the Director-General  for his work in the Medium-Term Plan and in the Programme and Budget documents he presented  to this Conference. We have read with interest the Director -General's views on a possible new  world order in his book "Moving towards change". He has ably emphasized the special role that  Unesco plays in the United Nations system with its focus on man as the centre of development,  We agree with Mr. M'Bow that Unesco must be a forum from which broad, philosophical per-  spectives can be formulated on the problems of our times. We recognize that we are moving  through a period of historic change as the world becomes an increasingly interrelated system,  and as the Western orientation that prevailed for several centuries comes to share in a more  multicentred system of international relations.
16.7 But to return to my earlier question, I repeat, we have unprecedented possibilities for  advancing the common aims of all nations - rich and poor, North and South, East and West, con-  sumer and producer. How do we achieve our objective? We feel that the basic requirement for  ensuring that Unesco and other agencies are effective as instruments of change is a political con-  sensus that can support creative programme initiatives and combine the best of the old and the  new. We feel that it is indeed important to address the social and cultural dimensions of our  changing world, and, as the Director-General has said, to move toward a new human order, But  need we abandon those aspects of each nation's development which have been beneficial? Too  drastic action may bring regrets. And a wise African proverb suggests that "Regrets are like  a grandchild; they come some considerable time after the event''.
16.8 We hold that many features of the Western experience are especially significant in develop-  ment today: (1) it has become fashionable to decry economic growth in some countries. But!  ask you to recall that the concept of "'growth'' and especially "growth with equity'' is not only an  economic phenomenon in Western development, The roots of this concept lie more deeply in the  ideas of progress essential to the scientific revolution and to the Enlightenment's notion of man's  dignity and his capacity to deal with physical forces; (2) industrialization has not been non-cultural,  Great cultural traditions have persisted and, indeed, become enriched under the pressures of  rapid scientific and technological change. The will for cultural identity is no less intense in  developed than it is in developing countries; (3) it is the industrialized countries which first  became increasingly responsive to the ecological risks of uncontrolled material growth. Paren-  thetically, since 1969, the United States - with the passage of the National Environmental Plan-  ning Act - has begun a continuing study of the impact of technological changes and has taken steps  to guard the public interest. Pollution is not limited to the developed countries; (4) the ideas of  freedom and the protection of human rights - enunciated in the West - are essential to progress  and change. They are values that need to permeate any new system of international relations.  Nowhere are they more important, for that matter, than in those fields that are the special con-  cern of Unesco: in human rights and fundamental freedoms, in the freedom of scientific research  and scholarly inquiry, in the freedom and rights of the creative artist, in the free access of all  people to educational and cultural opportunities, and in a free flow of information.
16.9 We in the United States are fully committed to co-operative enterprises for bettering rela-  tions among peoples and for reducing disparities and dependencies. We are not for abandoning  the great fundamental goals which have been widely shared guideposts in man's development. It  is the hope of the United States that, during the course of our deliberations in this Unesco meet-  ing, we can work with the Director-General, with his staff, and all member nations to develop  guidelines for future planning. In developing this new framework for Unesco planning, two central  objectives should stand out as Unesco's contribution to reducing disparities and dependencies 1  the movement toward new international relations; (1) the world-wide dissemination and growth of
496      knowledge, skills and technology must not be slowed; (2)  own cultural heritages and the freedom of all peoples to develop their own ways of living must be  protected and encouraged. To these objectives, we need to add the assurance that Sie will carry out its programmes to serve the needs of all peoples, whatever their cultural patterns and socio-economic systems. Unesco's programmes must embrace the working philosophy that  honours and gives full value to the dignity of man as an individual with equality in ner and free-  doms. In the working out of these goals there is certain to be some disagreement over means  the right of all peoples to preserve their
16.10 From the beginning of the United Nations, we have found basic agreement at the inter-  national level of commitment to the free and open exchange of ideas. This commitment is  expressed most clearly in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in the Constitution of  Unesco, Nevertheless, wide differences exist among nations regarding the underlying issues of  communications in the light of particular social and political systems. This is true especially  in the role of the mass media in the interrelationships among individuals as well as among peoples.  The United States, from the start of its life as an independent nation, has had a strong commit-  ment to the maintenance of the right of free speech, however exercised, a right which we have  insisted be relatively unfettered by government. How did this commitment come about? Why  have we adhered to it with what some would call almost religious fervour? Because we believe  that free speech is our chief weapon against tyranny - that only through the unfettered exchange  of ideas is it possible even to come close to what is called "truth". This approach, we realize,  is not universally shared. Other governments have at times adopted different domestic standards,  which in turn affect their attitudes toward standards for free flow of information and ideas in the  international sphere. Accordingly, the United States wishes to use this occasion to articulate once  more in the strongest possible way its commitment to freedom of information and expression and  to the fundamental human right of every individual to seek, receive, and impart information and  ideas through any medium and regardless of frontiers. We are eternally vigilant to prevent any  infringement on this freedom.
16.11 In affirmation of this fundamental belief, we make the following statement here at this  Unesco General Conference: the United States, recognizing the vital importance of communications  in the development of peoples and nations and of the friendly relations between them, is concerned  that all peoples should have the opportunity to share in the potential benefits of modern mass com-  munications. It reaffirms its belief in full and equal opportunities for the education of all, in  unrestricted pursuit of objectivity, and in the free exchange of ideas and knowledge, and it asserts  that the wide diffusion of culture and the education of humanity for justice and liberty and peace  are indispensable to the dignity and fulfilment of man and constitute an obligation which all nations  must fulfil in a spirit of mutual assistance and concern.
16.12 The United States is determined to help develop and to increase the means of communica -  tion among peoples, while yet preserving the independence, integrity, and fruitful diversity of  sources of information. It is appropriate that the international community look very hard at how  we can ensure that the flow of information and ideas is truly two-way. It is our conviction that  the most effective way to reduce the current imbalance is not by inhibiting the communications  capacity of some but by increasing the communications capacity of all. In furtherance of this  approach, the United States has consistently offered to share its knowledge and expertise regard-  ing communication facilities available for experimental undertakings. For example, the United  States offered its ATS-6 communications satellite to India for a year-long educational experiment.  Through the ATS-6 satellite, the Indian Government was able to transmit programmes on agri-  cultural techniques, family planning and hygiene, school instruction, teacher education and occu-  pational skills, The telecasts were broadcast in different languages to Indians in 5,000 villages  in seven Indian States. Schoolchildren gathered around television sets outdoors and in school -  houses, receiving daily lessons from the "blackboard in the sky", as Indian journalists labelled  the ATS-6. Following this successful joint project with the Government of India, the United States  has been making available for several months to interested developing States opportunities to parti-  cipate in the use of the ATS-6 satellite to demonstrate various applications for national develop-  ment that communication satellites make possible. Some 30 countries are now taking advantage of  this opportunity.
16.13 Concern for effective two-way communications between the various societies of this world  and its people is an appropriate interest of Unesco. Restricting the use of satellites - or of special  competencies in the mass media - will not help. We believe that the United States and other nations  in which are found highly-developed mass media facilities and capabilities, should endeavour to  make available, through bilateral and multilateral channels, both private and governmental, assi st-  ance to other States in helping to develop their mass media. Furthermore, it is the strong convic-  tion of the United States that Unesco itself, in its future planning, must accord a high priority to  expanding and strengthening, through its Regular Programme and Budget, assistance to Member  States in helping them further develop their communication capacities. These positive approaches  would encourage the greatest possible international exchange of information and ideas. These  approaches would facilitate a more balanced flow of communications. These approaches would  foster greater understanding among peoples, respect for the value of diversity among cultures, :  and speed the sharing of knowledge and ideas that are essential to the cause of peace and the achieve-  ment of political, social, cultural, and economic progress.  co without looking also at 16. 14 i tion to goals of Unes Mr. President, we cannot pay so much atten g b usofimprovementsine  its structure. The Director-General in his first address in 1974 spoke t
11 wished to make in the methods of programming and in the means of implementing Unesco activi.  ties. We have seen with interest the many changes he has made during the last two years, We  welcome more discussions of the dynamics of restructuring of the Secretariat, recognizing that  the real test can only come from working experience. A more focused framework for planning is  one prerequisite for making Unesco an effective mechanism for international co-operation, Another  is the strength and structure of the Organization itself, and the strategies and procedures it adopt  to carry out its work. Means are needed to assess the performance of Unesco undertakings, = s  process is necessary by which the managers of the Secretariat and the members of the governing  bodies can know what progress is being made and why, and what problems are being encountered  and why. The Director-General has already undertaken certain steps to change the structure and  methods of operation and has informed the General Conference of his actions in document 19 C/48  He has taken on this task of reorganization with unusual vigour and we applaud this initiative, We  agree with the new emphasis that has been given to the operational activities of Unesco. However  care must be taken to see that Unesco's intellectual resources and its operational programmes he  closely linked, and that neither overshadows the other. For there is danger that operationg Without  strong intellectual content will lose their relevancy and quality. Likewise, intellectual activities  without a strong operational content can become sterile and unrelated to pragmatic needs of the  Member States. Close, effective relations with Unesco's networks of non-governmental organiza-  tions will contribute much to avoiding this.
16.15 Mr. President, we now want to end by returning to the point we raised earlier: the need  for a new consensus among Member States. I trust that I have made clear the spirit and the will  that the United States brings to this General Conference. We agree with the Director-General  that Unesco's activities over the next decade must be carried out within the context of changing  international relationships. The dimensions and shape of a different world order will emerge  from our debates, our consultations, our actions - here and elsewhere. What we agree upon is  that, in bringing about change, we must squarely face the following: the disparities between  developed and developing countries as a central issue of changing international relations; the  links between national developments and international structures; the need to bring disadvantaged  groups into the mainstream of development actions and development benefits; and the problems  of dependencies that exist in an increasingly interdependent world.
16.16 These are realities that the United States recognizes as the essential characteristics of  the world situation within which Unesco works. They are characteristics, moreover, which  underscore the importance of education, natural and social sciences, and culture in enhancing  national developments and in reducing dependencies in a new era of international relations. They  stress the need to pay special attention to the role and participation of women, to the poor and  marginal populations within countries, and especially to the rural poor. They also, more deeply,  emphasize the intense desire of all peoples to preserve their cultural identities under the pres-  sures of scientific and technological change. They establish, in turn, the central contributions  of Unesco to a changing pattern of relations among the peoples of the world. Our task at this  General Conference is to make Unesco an effective Organization through which we can co-operate.  The requirements are fourfold: (1) a framework for planning, assessment and operations that  sharply focuses on Unesco's direct responsibilities and its achievements and shortfalls in the  fields of education, the sciences, and culture; (2) a well-organized and well -staffed administrative  structure leading to maximum effectiveness and efficiency; (3) a close link within intellectual oper-  ational activities which stress renewal and innovation to meet the real needs of Member States;  and (4) a common determination to focus upon the objectives in the Constitution of Unesco to which  all of us, as members, have subscribed - a political consensus among Member States that reflects  a sense of community and rejects confrontation over narrow and disrupting interests.
16.17 If I have spoken at great length and candidly, I have done so only because I recognize the  seriousness and urgency of the problems confronting this thirtieth anniversary Conference of  Unesco. I believe my apprehension is shared by others. I cannot speak for the Director-General,  But I recall the words of Mr. M'Bow at the close of the Unesco General Conference in 1974, As  that Conference ended, Mr. M'Bow called on the Unesco Member States to resolve their disputes  through dialogue, tolerance and understanding, rather than through confrontation. Specifically,  the Director-General said: ''We must avoid those conflicts that take on the character of system-  atic confrontations. We should perhaps avoid even the adoption of resolutions, no matter how  strong the majority behind them, that leave profound bitterness among some of us. I want to  launch an urgent appeal for tolerance and understanding and seek consensus through patient dia-  logue". I look forward to a closing statement this year that will show how Unesco Member States  met and debated and tugged and perhaps even fought vocally - but ended with a sense of  "Harambee!'. Thank you, Mr. President.
17. The PRESIDENT:  I wish to thank the distinguished representative of the United States of America and offer the  floor to H,E. Mr. Felix Schnyder, Ambassador, Chairman of the Swiss National Commission to  Unesco, and head of the delegation of Switzerland, Mr. Schnyder.  (Mr. Bruera, Argentina, took the floor. )
18.1 M. SCHNYDER (Suisse). - imer  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais me joindre aux orateurs qui m'ont précédé pour amp
498      à la délégation indonésienne et, par son intermédiaire, au peuple de l'Indonésie i la plus profonde face aux événements tragiques qui viennen a t de frapper ce pays.
18.2 Je voudrais adresser les félicitations les plus vives de notre dé  Conférence pour son élection à la présidence de celle-ci, Nous sommes heureux que la Conférence se tienne dans son pays, se tienne en Afrique, Car nous avons l'espoir que le soleil africain et  l'hospitalité cordiale avec laquelle nous avons été reçus ici vont aider cette assemblée à retrouver  un climat plus serein, l'esprit de coopération, de solidarité et de compréhension réelle, Ce que  nous devons chercher dans cette organisation, c'est ce qui nous rapproche et non ce ua nous divise  c'est d'unir nos forces pour arriver à résoudre ensemble les graves problèmes que le Directeur ;  général évoque dans son introduction au Projet de plan à moyen terme, c'est d'harmoniser nos  intérêts et nos efforts afin de créer un monde plus humain et plus juste.  légation au Président de notre
18.3 Nous n'avons pas oublié les sentiments de profonde gratitude que nous avions ressentis en  écoutant et en relisant les déclarations que M. M'Bow, directeur général de cette Organisation,  avait faites à l'occasion de la cérémonie de clôture de la précédente session de la Conférence  générale ; et c'est avec une très grande satisfaction que nous avons constaté, au cours des deux  années qui se sont écoulées depuis, avec quelle tenacité il a oeuvré dans la voie qu'il a tracée.  Nous avons l'impression que les résultats de cette action se font déjà sentir, Les discours que le  Directeur général a prononcés la semaine dernière nous ont confirmés dans nos sentiments, et  j'aimerais dire ici combien nous lui sommes reconnaissants de son attitude ferme, courageuse et  ouverte.
18.4 Monsieur le Président, les Suisses sont connus pour être un peuple plutôt pragmatique, Nous  préférons les faits aux propos déclamatoires, C'est pourquoi nous attendons de l'Unesco également  des faits et non pas seulement des résolutions ou des déclarations, nous attendons des résultats  concrets, tout particulièrement dans le domaine du développement. Nous attendons de l'Unesco  qu'elle aide à résoudre des problèmes et non à en créer, Je ne cacherai pas que l'opinion publique  suisse est extrêmement sensible à cet égard, C'est pourquoi le peuple suisse désire voir une orga-  nisation telle que l'Unesco autant que possible à l'abri des tensions politiques, Ceci dit, je suis  évidemment parfaitement conscient du fait qu'une Unesco complètement apolitique est une utopie  et que les finalités de l'Organisation - la garantie des droits de l'homme, la paix et le développe-  ment - sont d'ordre politique, Mais je crois que cette politique devrait, tout en reflétant la diver-  sité du monde qui est en même temps sa richesse, être celle de la solidarité et de l'harmonie  plutôt que celle qui est la résultante d'un affrontement de forces divergentes. Je suis profondément  convaincu qu'un monde où chaque individu jouira de tous ses droits fondamentaux et où les inégalités  injustes auront disparu, c'est-à-dire un monde réellement en paix, ne se construit que par une  coopération concrète, pratique, constructive, tenace - et patiente.
18,5 C'est pourquoi nous attribuons la plus grande importance au programme opérationnel de  l'Unesco, Pour nous, la raison d'être de l'Organisation est son programme d'action, Dans son  ensemble, nous jugeons cette action très positive. L'Unesco apporte une aide réelle au développe-  ment des systèmes éducatifs, elle est un catalyseur indispensable de la coopération scientifique  internationale et ce qu'elle fait pour sauvegarder le patrimoine culturel de l'humanité et pour pro-  mouvoir le développement culturel est reconnu par le monde entier.
18.6 Où nous commençons à ressentir des hésitations, c'est dans le domaine que l'on appelle  l'action normative. Nous avons dû constater que la multiplication, je dirais même l'inflation, des  instruments juridiques et leur formulation souvent peu rigoureuse en érodent le poids et la signi-  fication, De plus, nous avons également dû constater que l'élaboration de tels textes provoque  fréquemment des tensions, voire des divergences ou même des affrontements regrettables, Nous  sommes profondément convaincus qu'il ne faudrait mettre en chantier l'élaboration de nouveaux  instruments qu'à condition qu'il existe un large consensus sur les objectifs qu'ils visent à atteindre,
18,7 Monsieur le Président, j'en viens maintenant aux questions concernant plus directement le  programme, Le document que nous considérons, dans ce contexte, comme étant le plus important,  est le Projet de plan à moyen terme : le 19 C/4. Il signifie, dans le processus de planification,  un très grand pas en avant et nous tenons àen féliciter le Directeur général et ses collaborateurs.  Ce plan trace les grandes lignes de l'avenir de l'Organisation, et nous sommes dans l'ensemble  d'accord avec ses orientations, tout en nous réservant le droit de nuancer notre approbation dans  les débats des différentes commissions qui examineront ce document de plus près.
18.8 Nous avons lu avec beaucoup d'attention l'introduction du Directeur général à ce plan, et  nous en approuvons la philosophie. La partie concernant la problématique mondiale nous paraît  être particulièrement pertinente. En effet, "l'approche globale de la problématique mondiale se  révèle comme la seule qui rende compte de sa vraie nature". Eten soulignant le fait que l'inter-  dépendance des problèmes est liée à l'interdépendance des différentes sociétés humaines pour en  déduire que seule une véritable solidarité humaine permettra de résoudre cette problématique, le  Directeur général exprime exactement ce que nous avons tenté de dire au début de notre interven-  tion, Il en découle, etle Directeur général le souligne avec force, la nécessité de rechercher un  ordre mondial plus juste et plus équitable. Comme lui, nous sommes convaincus que les ee  à envisager ne sauraient se limiter au seul domaine économique et social, mais devaient revêtir  UN caractère culturel au sens le plus large du terme, en portant essentiellement sur 1 Bop:  Sur ses droits et sur ses responsabilités, sur ses besoins et sa liberté, sur sa créativité et sur
11 ses aspirations les plus nobles, Dans la poursuite d'un effort global pour le développement de  l'humanité, l'apport de l'Unesco devrait être substantiel, C'est dans ce sens que nous comprenon  la contribution de l'Unesco à la recherche d'un nouvel ordre mondial. 5
18.9 Tout en étant conscients du fait que des zones de sous-développement existent dang tous leg  pays, industrialisés ou non, et partageant l'opinion du Directeur général selon laquelle tous les  pays sont, dans une certaine mesure, des pays en voie de développement, nous souhaitons que  l'Unesco accorde, dans ses actions, une nette priorité aux pays les plus pauvres,
18.10 La richesse d'idées et la multitude des questions soulevées dans l'introduction du Directeur  général au Plan à moyen terme demanderaient, évidemment, un commentaire beaucoup plus élaboré  qu'il n'est possible de le faire dans le cadre de cette brève intervention, Vous me permettrez donc  Monsieur le Président, de conclure sur une remarque d'ordre plutôt pratique que philosophique ,  pour vous dire que nous partageons sans réserve le voeu, exprimé très clairement par le Directeur  général, que ce plan permette de réorienter et surtout de concentrer le programme de l'Unesco,  Nous n'ignorons pas la difficulté de cette tâche, mais nous la jugeons essentielle pour accroître  encore davantage l'efficacité de l'Organisation, Ce processus est, sans doute, étroitement lié à  une évaluation critique de son action, C'est avec satisfaction que nous avons pu constater certains  efforts, encore un peu timides peut-être, accomplis dans ce domaine. Sans doute faudra-t-il per.  sévérer dans cette voie.
18.11 Dans ce contexte, nous tenons à féliciter tout spécialement le Secrétariat pour son excellent  rapport d'évaluation du Programme expérimental mondial d'alphabétisation. Nous avons beaucoup  apprécié la franchise et l'esprit critique qui caractérise ce texte. Nous le jugeons de manière très  positive, même s'il fait état de certaines déceptions ou même de certains échecs, Ce qui importe,  c'est qu'il permette de tirer des leçons valables de ces projets pilotes. Notre Commission nationale  a d'ailleurs consacré une partie essentielle de sa dernière assemblée générale à l'étude de ce  document, C'est dire l'intéret que nous lui portons. Et nous encourageons très vivement le Secré-  tariat à continuer dans cette voie.
18.12 Entrant maintenant dans le corps du document 19 C/4, je me limiterai à une seule remarque  d'ordre général, L'analyse des différents problèmes nous paraît le plus souvent pertinente, quoique  parfois un peu trop générale et pas assez prospective. Et puis, nous avons été frappés à plusieurs  reprises, d'une part par le hiatus entre ces analyses et les actions envisagées pour résoudre ces  problèmes ; d'autre part, il arrive même que le plan descende au niveau de la simple programma-  tion et prenne la forme traditionnelle du C/5.
18.13 Permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, d'aborder maintenant quelques considérations plus  particulières, Une affaire qui est de la compétence de l'Unesco et qui préoccupe tout particulière-  ment le peuple suisse est celle de la libre circulation de l'information, En Suisse, la liberté  d'expression et la liberté d'information constituent un des fondements de notre démocratie, Toute  action qui porterait atteinte à cette liberté, toute tentative d'instaurer quelque chose comme une  censure mondiale - diamétralement contraire aux idéaux même de l'Unesco et à ses statuts -  seraient combattues, dans mon pays, avec la plus grande vigueur. C'est là une question de principe  où aucune délégation suisse, dans quelque enceinte que ce soit, ne saurait faire de concessions,
18.14 Cela dit, Monsieur le Président, nous sommes tout à fait conscients qu'il existe actuelle-  ment un certain déséquilibre dans la circulation de l'information entre pays industrialisés et pays  en voie de développement. Ce déséquilibre correspond à d'autres inégalités, auxquelles il est  d'ailleurs étroitement lié. Nous considérons que le moyen le plus efficace pour remédier à cette  situation consiste à aider les pays en voie de développement à consolider leurs propres infrastruc-  tures dans ce domaine, C'est pour cette raison que nous estimons que le niveau - inchangé - des  ressources prévues dans le document 19 C/4 pour les objectifs 9.1 et 9.4 ne se justifie nullement,  A notre avis, il est indispensable de prévoir pour ces objectifs un taux de croissance important,  Et nous souhaitons vivement que des mesures puissent être prises pour dégager, au cours du pro-  chain exercice biennal et plus encore dans le budget 1979-1980, des moyens substantiels pour aider  les Etats membres qui le désirent à développer leurs infrastructures en matière d'information,
18.15 Je voudrais dire également un mot sur la circulation de l'information entre le Secrétariat  et les Etats membres. Si l'on part de l'idée que promouvoir l'échange d'informations et d'expé-  riences dans les domaines de compétence de l'Unesco ainsi que la création de réseaux d'informa-  tion est une des premières tâches de l'Organisation, il faut bien constater que cette tâche n'est  pas suffisamment bien accomplie, Les mines d'or qui existent à l'Unesco ne sont pas suffisamment  exploitées, Je ne citerai comme exemples que les innombrables séminaires, réunions, etc, , orga  nisés par 1'Unesco et dont les résultats restent souvent - trop souvent - inconnus. Ce n'est que  rarement qu'ils parviennent aux Etats membres. Il reste donc beaucoup a faire pour donner suite  aux activités de ce genre,
18.16 Au sujet des réseaux d'information, nous tenons a dire un mot sur le développement du  Bureau international d'éducation, Ce bureau se trouvant à Genève, nous suivons ses activités avec  un intérêt particulier, Nous sommes heureux de pouvoir constater que le BIE se développe de façon  fort satisfaisante. Selon sa vocation, il assume de plus en plus le rôle de véritable centre d'infor-  mation et de réflexion dans le domaine de l'éducation.
18.17 Dans le domaine des sciences, les milieux scientifi  pour les grands programmes de coopération, notamment  national et pour le Programme sur l'homme et la biosphère. Et nonobstant le fait que les Suisses  ne sont pas des marins nés, nos chercheurs portent une grande attention à l'action de la Commission océanographique internationale. Mais nous avons constaté que les travaux de certains organes a  directeurs de ces programmes risquent de manquer de la continuité nécessaire, Ils ne sont, en  effet, élus que pour une période de deux ans, ce qui nous paraît insuffisant Dans le domaine des  sciences, nous voudrions soulever une autre question : il nous paraît que LOssanisation a tendance  à donner une importance toujours plus grande aux sciences appliquées - surtout si elles ont trait  aux questions touchant le développement. Il faudrait éviter que cette nouvelle orientation se fasse  au détriment des sciences pures,  ques suisses montrent un intérêt croissant 11  pour le Programme hydrologique inter-
18.18 Est-il nécessaire enfin, Monsieur le Président, de souligner l'importance que nous accordons  aux grandes actions de l'Unesco dans le domaine de la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel de l'hu-  manité ? A plusieurs reprises, nous avons pu contribuer à ces actions, et notre attitude positive à l'égard de telles actions restera inchangée à l'avenir,
18.19 Qu'il me soit permis, en concluant ces quelques remarques d'ajouter un mot sur le Courrier de l'Unesco, Il n'est plus nécessaire de souligner la contribution de cette excellente revue au  rayonnement de l'Organisation, Nous souhaiterions que, dans le sillage du Courrier de l'Unesco  de nombreuses autres publications trouvent, grâce à une politique d'édition encore plus dynamique  les milliers de lecteurs qui devraient pouvoir profiter de ce que l'Unesco produit de meilleur. Ï
18,20 Monsieur le Président, nous n'ignorons pas que certaines difficultés récentes du PNUD qui  sont heureusement en train d'être surmontées, ont affecté certains projets de l'Unesco. Dans d'ami  ou l'autre de ces cas, nous avons essayé d'aider à résoudre ces problèmes. Je suis autorisé à  déclarer ici que nous continuons à être disposés à cofinancer certains projets, choisis d'un commun  accord, la principale priorité étant donnée à des projets soutenant les efforts des pays, régions  ou groupes de population les plus défavorisés,
18.21 Monsieur le Président, notre Organisation passe actuellement par une phase difficile. Il  faut en être conscient, Elle est le reflet de la problématique mondiale, Nous souhaitons que nos  difficultés puissent être rapidement surmontées. C'est à nous, Etats membres, que cette respon-  sabilité incombe, Merci, Monsieur le Président.
(19) Le PRESIDENT. - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Suisse, Je donne la parole au Secrétaire, qui a une commu-  nication à vous faire.  ANNONCEMENT BY THE SECRETARY/COMMUNICATION DU SECRETAIRE/COMMUNICACION  DEL SECRETARIO/ COOBIEHHE CEKPETAPA Sul os!
20. Le SECRETAIRE:  Monsieur le Président, je suis chargé par le Président de la Conférence générale d'inviter les  chefs des délégations des Etats membres désignés hier par la Conférence générale pour faire partie  du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation à bien vouloir lui communiquer, ce soir ou demain matin,  le nom de la personne qu'ils désignent pour participer aux travaux du Groupe. Merci, Monsieur  le Président.  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)/DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)/DEBATE  DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)/  OBCYXIEHHE BONPOCOB OBIEÏ MOIHTHKH (npononxeume) ( gb ) doled) dulindl disks
(21) Le PRESIDENT. - (Traduit de 1'espagnol.)  Je donne la parole à S, Exc. M, Hamid Rahnema, chef de la délégation de l'Iran,
22.1 Mr. Hamid RAHNEMA (Iran):  Mr. President, allow me before starting my intervention to express, on behalf of the Govern-  ment of Iran and my delegation, the deep sorrow and sympathy we feel as a result of the tragic  earthquake that has caused irreparable human losses to our brother Asian country of Indonesia.  We sincerely hope that the efforts of the Indonesian people to alleviate the suffering of their  countrymen will be coupled, in the spirit of solidarity, with that of all the countries of the world  concerned by this tragedy.
22.2 Mr. President, your election as President of the nineteenth session of the General Confer -  ence and the choice of the beautiful city of Nairobi as the meeting place of our Conference give  cause for great satisfaction. As a country deeply committed to the cause of African liberation,  Wwe welcome and warmly support both events. They are indicative of the growing and well deserved  role that is being recognized for Africa on the international scene. We would also like to thank  wholeheartedly the Government and the people of Kenya for having organized this Conference so  perfectly and with such a genuine warmth.
11 22.3 It is significant that our debates are not only taking place on African soil but also in the  presence of the first African Director-General Unesco has had since its foundation. In his two  years of office Mr. M'Bow has already shown how professional competence can so happily be  matched with human qualities and warmth of heart. He deserves our gratitude and full support  for the most intelligent and conscientious way he has carried out his duties in two of the most  critical years of the Organization's life and we wish him continued success in carrying out hig  arduous task in the future. We would also like to pay a particular tribute to the Executive Board  and its most dynamic and able Chairman, Mr. Hector Wynter, for their performance in the last  two years.
22.4 The document 19 C/4, submitted to us by the Director-General as setting out hig Proposals  for future action, is indicative of his genuine desire to adapt the Organization's policies to the  needs and aspirations of a rapidly changing world. In our view, this is the most important and  challenging document that has ever been produced by Unesco. Document 19 C/4 reflects through.  out a bold and humanistic concept of development based on the lessons of the last 30 years, Devel.  opment, as stated in the document, should be interpreted as a "comprehensive, multi-relationa]  process involving all the aspects of the life of the community, its relation with the outside world  and its self-awareness... It is not enough to say that its ultimate justification is that man will  benefit: the whole process itself, planned by man, is and must be consciously stamped by  humanity" (paragraph 305). Further, "development centred on man cannot mean the imposition  of an anonymous pattern; it must be conceived as an independent or self-supporting process by  which a society consciously and freely chooses the pattern to which it intends to conform" (para-  graph 308). Consequently, development "can only be an open process and must be accepted ag  such'' (paragraph 309). Authentic development "must stem from a continually revived awareness  of the values by which a community lives, the source of which is its culture, viewed dynamically"  (paragraph 310).
22.5 Such an endogenous, man-centred, multi-dimensional and integrated concept of development  has indeed the full support of all countries particularly those emerging ones which are genuinely  embarked upon the process of their liberation at the three levels of the individual, the nation and  the planet. Its acceptance, however, carries with it consequences of utmost seriousness and com-  mitments of a rather radical nature. It implies that fundamental changes take place at all these  levels, with a view, first, to removing all the structural obstacles to development and, secondly,  to setting up the new structures that may promote it. It implies that all of us here present must  be prepared to re-examine with candour, the basic structures of our societies in order to adapt  them, if need be, more fully to the objectives of a man-centred development. Further, it  inevitably leads us to question the existing world power structure in the light of the new concepts.  The genuine and continuing search for the establishment of a new international economic order,  such as has been recommended by the General Assembly of the United Nations, should therefore  be carried out with force and determination. At the level of the United Nations and the Special-  ized Agencies, major changes are called for in their structure and working methods, particularly  in respect of their organizational and administrative methods, One of the major questions to be  examined in an overall effort to adapt the structure of our own Organization to the needs of an  endogenous and man-centred development, is that of increasing the representative character of  all its organs while continuing to improve its efficiency.
22,6 At the level of the political organs, including the Executive Board, the question of the equit-  able representation of Member States should be re-examined. As a result of the increase in size  and workload of the Organization, the Executive Board is called upon to play an even greater part  than in the past, as Unesco's permanent "watch body'' between the sessions of the General Confer-  ence, Thus, it should be able to fully represent the will as well as the conscience of the greater  body it serves. This requires the full examination of the problem as a whole, taking into account  the many factors that need to be considered. We would prefer that a serious in-depth study of the  question envisaged be undertaken with a view firstly to making the Board more representative of  the growing diversity of the national experiences and concepts that are shaping the world, and  secondly to increasing to the maximum its intellectual and effective capacity to deal with the major  problems of our time - at the same time, however, keeping its size within reasonable limits s0  that its members may discuss the items on its agenda with care, efficiency, informality and full  autonomy. We are of the opinion that such an overall study of the problem could in fact be easily  undertaken by the Board itself for submission to the next session of the General Conference.
22.7 At the level of the Secretariat, our position is well known. We are convinced that, in order  to respond adequately to the variety of situations and to the requirements of the endogenous and  open process of development, it should be restructured in order to give it greater flexibility,  mobility and efficiency. It should rely less and less on a centralized bureaucracy stationed a  Headquariers. As we have already stated in the Executive Board, the long-term ideal solution  might eventually be to develop a modular system of combined task forces of an interdisciplinary  and problem-solving nature, which would be able to respond, at any moment, rapidly and effic-  iently, to each type of request presented by Member States. We continue to support the Director-  General for the measures he has already taken in this spirit. We approve equally of his ion  to encourage more qualified people of non- or under-represented countries to join the Secretariat  The same principles explain our support of the proposal to increase the lowest country quota from
2-3 to 3-5 persons. We would like, however, to insist - as is indeed the wish of the Director-
502      General himself - that such an objective should not be implemented in a mechanical or emotional  manner, that might be detrimental to the proper functioning and efficiency of the Serbie RATE  should certain inequities and discriminatory practices of the past that had long favoured fore iq  developed countries give rise to reactions which could impede the proper functioning of the Secre- tariat. Let us bear in mind that a decrease in the quality of the Organization's work would be  detrimental to the interests of the emerging countries,
22.8 Even if we succeed in bringing about such constitutional or administrative improvements in  the work of political bodies of the Organization and its Secretariat, we strongly believe that nothing  substantial can be achieved if Member States do not accept and assume their full responsibility in  these matters. In always providing more qualified nationals for election to these bodies, and in  helping the Director-General to recruit his staff amongst their most competent citizens, govern-  ments can help our Organization, more than any other institutional device, to become both repre-  sentative and able to serve them efficiently.
22.9 Mr. President, my colleagues in the delegation will have the opportunity before the com-  missions, of defining our positions on various matters of common concern; I shall, therefore,  limit my remaining remarks to two questions of particular significance to my delegation. The  first of which concerns our position on document 19 C/4 and its relation to document C/5. We  are in full agreement with the general orientation of the C/4 document, Although we feel that in  most chapters there is a striking gap between the "statement of the problem and the often very  modest proposals for action and the 1982 targets, derived from them, we consider that the docu-  ment should be, as a whole, endorsed by the General Conference. The Director-General's intro-  duction, as well as the introductions to the various chapters have our full support. We hope there-  fore that they will constitute the guiding principles for action of the Organization in the coming six  years. In view of the importance of the new C/4 document, we believe, further, that we should  no longer maintain the C/5 as the only document legally binding our Member States. Equal status  should be granted to the C/4 in order to give it the place it deserves in the long-term planning of  our activities. For similar reasons, we support the Director-General's proposal in paragraph 132  of document 19 C/4, that the C/5 document should, in future, be presented by objectives, and not  in the traditional manner. Finally, we fully endorse the suggestion made by the Executive Board  in its decision 100 EX/4. 1, that guidelines be established in future so that the Director-General,  when preparing document C/5, follows "as regards the relevant sections of Part 2, the arrange-  ment by objectives adapted in the Medium-Term Plan",
22.10 My second set of observations deals with the problems of educational action as proposed  in Chapters V and VI of the document. We believe that the introduction to Chapter V poses admir-  ably the educational problem, in conformity with the document's basic approach to development.  We particularly appreciate the fact that the question of democratization has so rightly been pre-  sented as an inseparable dimension of educational action. We fully support the principle that  "democratization not only means providing equal opportunities and treatment in education, but  also entails qualitative changes - often very radical ones - in the lines of emphasis and functioning  of existing systems''. Yet we cannot but express our disappointment as to the gap that appears  later, between the principles as they are stated, and the manner in which they are translated into  action. We feel it is regrettable that the two main chapters on education look as if the educational  planners, despite all their good intentions, continue to be impressed by the inhibiting conservatism  that is still prevailing in the world of education. We believe the time has come for us to commit  ourselves to the concept of a new process of learning for all, rather than continuing to devote the  bulk of our resources to the expansion of the formal school system. The restructuring of the  educational action should be based, in the first instance, on the necessity of meeting the funda -  mental needs of the millions that constitute the least favoured; that is, precisely those who are  rejected by the school system.
22,11 In the overall action designed to increase people's awareness and promote more genuine  democratization of the educational process, literacy has an important role and significance. The  Persepolis Declaration (of September 1975), a consensus of views expressed by some of the  world's most outstanding authorities, reflects the many-sided complexities of the problem. On  the basis of national experiences and of Unesco's Experimental World Literacy Programme, it  is now clear that literacy campaigns can only be meaningful if they help the peoples concerned to  read the world rather than mere words, to adopt a critical attitude towards reality, and to parti-  cipate more fully in the process of their liberation, from obsolete concepts and systems ofaction,
22.12 In his policy statement before this session of the General Conference, the Director-General  once again reiterated his already well-known position that educational action should take into  account all the resources and possibilities that can be developed and mobilized in a community.  It is in this same spirit that we should give him a vote of confidence on document 19 C/4 that will  encourage him in taking yet bolder and more radical steps along the lines of his own convictions.
22.13 Mr. President, allow me to mention very briefly, three examples among many others of  the activities that my own country has deployed in the fields of concern of our Organization, since  the last session of the General Conference. In the field of solidarity with other countries and as  a contribution towards the establishment of a new international economic order, my country has  devoted almost 6% of its annual gross national product, to foreign aid, bilateral and multilateral,  and to co-operation. Parallel to the Persepolis Declaration, to which I referred earlier, His
11 Imperial Majesty the Shahinshah has personally taken the lead in a national crusade aimed at  wiping out illiteracy in Iran. Thirdly, the last Ramsar Conference of Iranian Ministers and Aca  demic leaders, annually convened in the presence of our Leader, took, a few weeks ago, 5  : Ë excep-  tional measures to mobilize the country's resources to meet Iran's increasing educationa ÿ 1 needs,
22.14 Mr. President, let me in conclusion associate my delegation with the hope that has been  expressed by many speakers before me, that the nineteenth session of the General Conference  will constitute a historic milestone in Unesco's life. For our part, we are confident that the  spirit of Nairobi and the African atmosphere of warmth and friendship, will allow us to overcome  and resolve most of the difficulties and problems that we have been facing in the last fey years,  Thank you, Mr. President.
(23) Le PRESIDENT. - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de l'Iran. Je donne la parole à M, Yacoubou Nicabou Blakime  directeur du Cabinet du ministre de l'éducation nationale et chef de la délégation togolaise,
24.1 M. BLAKIME (Togo).-  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence génrale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif,  Monsieur le Directeur général, le gouvernement de la République togolaise saisit par ma voix  cette occasion pour exprimer toute sa sympathie au peuple frère et ami de l'Indonésie, après la  catastrophe qui vient de s'abattre sur son pays.
24.2 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, au nom du gouvernement togolais, au  nom de la délégation que j'ai l'insigne honneur de conduire à cette dix-neuvième session de la  Conférence générale de l'Unesco, qu'il me soit permis, Monsieur le Président, de vous présenter  pour votre élection nos très chaleureuses félicitations. Qu'il me soit également permis de saluer  à cette tribune le vaillant peuple de la République soeur du Kenya, avec à sa tête S. Exc. le président  Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, qui a bien voulu accueillir sur son territoire cette haute instance internatio-  nale, ce haut lieu du dialogue qu'est l'Unesco, Les voeux les plus ardents de tout le peuple togolais  et de son chef sont ceux de voir le président Jomo Kenyatta servir encore longtemps l'Afrique qu'il  incarne si bien,
24,3 Aux yeux du gouvernement et du peuple togolais et de son prestigieux chef, le général d'armée  Gnassingbé Eyadema, cette dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco revêt une  importance toute particulière, D'abord, il est à souligner qu'aucune session de la Conférence  générale de l'Unesco ne s'est tenue jusqu'à ce jour en Afrique ; mais le hasard, qui fait si bien  les choses, a voulu que la première à se réunir en Afrique soit l'oeuvre de M. M'Bow, un fils  authentique de ce continent. Qui plus est, cette Conférence de Nairobi marque le début de la  trentième année de notre Organisation, avec tout ce que ce début comporte de difficultés etd'espoirs  dans un monde en perpétuelle mutation,
24.4 Monsieur le Directeur général, le gouvernement togolais, au cours de vos deux premières  années de mandat, a dû constater avec inquiétude et indignation les moyens dérisoires mis à voire  disposition pour réaliser le programme et les buts de l'Organisation. Face à cette situation lamen-  table, vous n'avez jamais manqué, Monsieur le Directeur général, de faire état, en vous adressant  tant au Conseil exécutif qu'aux Etats membres dans leur ensemble, de vos préoccupations, de vos  soucis, de vos craintes et même de vos angoisses. Qu'il s'agisse de la situation financière catas-  trophique due à l'inflation ou aux fluctuations capricieuses de la monnaie de compte, et aggravée  par le non-paiement de leurs contributions par certains Etats membres ; qu'il s'agisse des métho  de travail ou des innovations que vous avez introduites dans la vie de l'Organisation dans tous les  domaines, traditionnels ou nouveaux, vous avez déployé une énergie, une créativité, un sens du  dialogue remarquables, pour lesquels le Conseil exécutif, à chacune de ses sessions, vous à féli-  cité et encouragé. Le gouvernement togolais, dirigé par S. Exc. le général d'armée Gnassingbé  Eyadema tient à vous renouveler tout son appui, toutes ses félicitations et tous ses encouragements  avec cette chaleur humaine que vous avez pu apprécier lorsqu'en octobre 1975 vous vous êtes rendu  à Lomé.  des
24.5 Depuis trente ans en effet, l'Unesco a engagé une lutte vigoureuse contre l'ignorance, l'anal-  phabétisme et la misère, Elle a toujours recherché les voies et les moyens de créer les conditions  du dialogue et de la paix dans toutes les régions du monde. Elle a toujours recherché les idées  révolutionnaires dans l'éducation, la science et la culture, en vue de créer une humanité meilleure.  Pour cela, l'Unesco n'a jamais cessé de répéter que cette noble tâche n'est pas l'affaire d'un seul  Etat, et encore moins celle d'un seul individu, mais une responsabilité qui incombe à tous les  Etats et organisations de bonne bolonté épris de justice et de paix.
24.6 C'est pourquoi le Togo, membre de l'Unesco, a approuvé et adopté les méthodes d'action  isa ti : ; ; 4 Ed ; e nos de cette organisation : dans le domaine scolaire, pour répondre à une certaine impatience d 5  populations désireuses de rompre avec une école qui n'a pu combler tous les espoirs placés
504      elle, le gouvernement togolais a mis en route depuis octobre 1975 une réforme d'enseignement qui doit créer un nouvel homme togolais solidement enraciné dans son milieu, # 3
24.7 En ce qui concerne les droits de l'homme en tant que fondement et fin de l'action de notre  Organisation, c'est à juste titre que l'accent est mis sur eux dans un monde où sévissent encore  le racisme et l'apartheid, A ce propos, le gouvernement togolais n'a jamais cessé de s'élever  énergiquement contre les massacres de Soweto et l'oppression qui sévit en Afrique du Sud et de  condamner fermement le système d'apartheid, contraire aux droits de l'homme.
24,8 Si nous pouvons nous réjouir d'accueillir parmi nous de nouveaux Etats membres comme le  Mozambique, la Guinée-Bissau et les Seychelles, beaucoup d'autres pays restent victimes de  l'oppression et de l'impérialisme, C'est pourquoi le gouvernement togolais lutte ardemment pour  la libération rapide et inconditionnelle de tous les peuples du monde en général, et de l'Afrique  australe en particulier, encore sous la domination de minorités racistes,
24.9 Si nous nous réjouissons d'accueillir au sein de l'Organisation d'un pays unifié comme le  Viêt-nam, beaucoup d'autres, comme la Corée, restent encore divisés par le jeu de l'impérialisme,  Le gouvernement togolais, pour sa part, soutient la recherche des moyens d'accélérer l'inévitable  processus de réunification pacifique du peuple coréen, car la dignité d'un pays ne se marchande  pas. C'est pourquoi le gouvernement et le peuple togolais ont toujours oeuvré en faveur de la paix  en ne ménageant aucun effort tant sur le plan intérieur que sur le plan extérieur, en prenant des  initiatives soit pour consolider cette paix soit pour la restaurer.
24.10 Monsieur le Président, voilà les quelques grandes idées que nous avons tenu à soumettre  à cette auguste assemblée, Certes, tous les problèmes qui nous intéressent n'ont pas été abordés,  et si certains l'ont été il ne nous a pas semblé nécessaire de pousser plus loin leur analyse, Per-  mettez-nous une fois encore d'insister sur les moyens financiers réduits dont dispose notre Orga-  nisation, Malgré l'augmentation nominale importante des crédits qu'il prévoit, le Projet de budget  pour 1977-1978 qu'a présenté le Directeur général ne correspond en fait qu'à une croissance réelle  du programme de 4 %. Le Togo souhaite donc qu'un consensus puisse se réaliser entre les Etats  membres sur la question du budget. Bien que pour de petits Etats comme le Togo, le sacrifice  soit plus lourd que celui qui est demandé aux Etats dits nantis, nous acceptons ce sacrifice. De  l'avis du Togo, ce budget est justifié par le programme, qui se justifie lui-même par la vocation  particulière de notre Organisation à oeuvrer pour l'homme et à défendre ses droits, Ces droits  de l'homme, qui sont la toile de fond de la politique du Togo et de son gouvernement dirigé par le  général d'armée Gnassingbé Eyadema, constituent pour nous la raison ultime de l'action et de  l'existence de l'Unesco, Les droits de l'homme ne peuvent souffrir de partage ; et il n'y a jamais  de sacrifice trop grand si notre engagement permanent tend à réaliser ce but ultime. C'est pour-  quoi nous emboftons le pas au Directeur général en lançant un pressant appel à tous les Etats  membres pour qu'ils honorent leur engagements et qu'ils soutiennent davantage l'action définie par  l'Organisation, de façon à permettre à celle-ci d'aller de l'avant, à la recherche d'un monde  meilleur où les coups de canon et les coups de fusil feront place à la raison et au dialogue,
24,11 Je termine en formulant à l'occasion de ce trentième anniversaire de notre Organisation,  le voeu sincère que l'Unesco puisse remporter encore d'autres succès en trouvant auprès de tous  les Etats membres et des autres organisations auxquelles elle est liée l'appui moral, matériel et  financier dont elle a besoin. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
(25) Le PRESIDENT. - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Togo. Son intervention termine la présente séance,  The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.  La séance est levée à 18 h,15  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 18.15
3acexaune sakpsBaerc4 B 18.15  Elus By ds Bo Lid) A5 ly Au 0 Lad) Bs Ld) 5 due Vies,