Third plenary meeting
277 October 1976 at 10, 15 a, mm,  Presidents: Mrs. JOBORU (Hungary),  then Mr, TOWEETT (Kenya)  Troisième séance plénière
27 octobre 1976 à 10 h.15  Présidente : Mme JOBORU (Hongrie),  puis M. TOWEETT (Kenya)  Tercera sesion plenaria
5e (921) spe Banal out)  (LS) ces all  ELECTION OF THE PRESIDENT AND VICE-PRESIDENTS OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  AND OF THE CHAIRMEN, VICE-CHAIRMEN AND RAPPORTEURS OF THE COMMISSIONS  (FIRST REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE)  ELECTION DU PRESIDENT ET DES VICE-RRESIDENTS DE LA CONFERENCE GENERALE  ET DES PRESIDENTS, VICE-PRESIDENTS ET RAPPORTEURS DES COMMISSIONS  (PREMIER RAPPORT DU COMITE DES CANDIDATURES)  ELECCION DEL PRESIDENTE Y DE LOS VICEPRESIDENTES DE LA CONFERENCIA  GENERAL, Y DE LOS PRESIDENTES, VICEPRESIDENTES Y RELATORES DE LAS  COMISIONES (PRIMER INFORME DEL COMITE DE CANDIDA TURAS)  U3EPAHUE IIPEICEIATEJIS H 3AMECTHTEJEH NPEICEIATE JIS TEHEPAJILHOH  KOH®EPEHIIHH H NPEICEIATEJIEN, 3AMECTHTEJEX MPEICEIATEJEH H  MOKJIATYHKOB KOMHCCHÏ (IEPBBbIN NOKJIAI KOMUTETA IO KAHIHIATYPAM)  Opfadly peslsis 6 UN Lip put VC lig pad) pasado Li |  (els adl AU Bl al)
1,1 The PRESIDENT: 2m ‘ _  Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is called to order. I now invite you to take item 5 on our  agenda (Election of the President and the Vice-Presidents of the General Conference and of the  Chairmen, Vice-Chairmen and Rapporteurs of the Commissions).
1.2 T give the floor to the Chairman of the Nominations Committee, H, E. Mr. Agblemagnon, to  inform the General Conference on the proposals of the Committee concerning the office of Presi-  dent of the General Conference.
2.1 M. AGBLEMAGNON (Togo) (président du Comité des candidatures). - ;  Madame la Présidente, Monsieur le Directeur général, Monsieur le Président du Conseil  exécutif, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, j'ai l'honneur, au nom du Comité des candidatures,  de vous présenter le premier rapport de ce comité.
2.2 La séance a été ouverte par le président du Conseil exécutif, M. Hector Wynter, qui a pré-  senté au Comité des candidatures la recommandation du Conseil exécutif concernant la candidature  de S. Exc. le Dr N'Sougan Agblemagnon (Togo) à la présidence du comité. S. Exc. le Dr N'Sougan  Agblemagnon a été élu par acclamation président du Comité des candidatures.
269   s candidatures a procédé ensuite à l'élection des trois vice-présidents du Comité :  A l'Iran et de la Norvège ont été élus par acclamation vice.  les chefs des délégations du Honduras, de  présidents du Comité des candidatures.  après avoir entendu la recommandation du Président du Conseil  commander à la Conférence générale d'élire S, Exc,  n du Kenya, au poste de président de la dix-neuvième
2.4 Le Comité des candidatures,  exécutif, a décidé par acclamation de re  M. Taaitta Toweett, chef de la délégatio  session de la Conférence générale.
3.1 The PRESIDENT: ] 0.  I thank the Chairman of the Nominations Committee and I now invite the General Conference  to take a decision on the proposal of the Nominations Committee to elect the Honourable Taaitta  Toweett to the office of President of the General Conference.  (The Conference signified its agreement by prolonged applause. )
3.2 I declare Mr, Taaitta Toweett to be elected President of the General Conference, by  acclamation,
3.3 I now give the floor to the Director-General,
4.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL:  Avant que Mme Jéborû, qui a présidé la dix-huitieme session de la Conférence générale, ne  quitte ce siège, je voudrais lui remettre, en votre nom à tous, la médaille d'or de l'Organisation  pour les services qu'elle lui a rendus durant ces deux années, Je dois rappeler également que  Mme Jéborû a été pendant longtemps membre du Conseil exécutif de l'Unesco,
4.2 Madame, voici la médaille d'or de l'Organisation,  (Mrs. Jôborû, having received the gold medal of the Organization, left the rostrum to take  her place as head of the delegation of Hungary, and the Honourable Taaitta Toweett, head of  the delegation of Kenya, took the chair as President of the General Conference.)
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  Outgoing Madam President, Mr. Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr, Director-General,  Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen: I express my gratitude to you  for electing me President of this nineteenth session of the General Conference of Unesco,
5.2 On behalf of my country, my delegation and myself, I accept this high office as a true honour  and a great challenge. With your support I am confident that I shall carry out my duties justly and  effectively, thus following in the footsteps of my eminent predecessor, Dr. Magda Jôborû, whose  stateswomanly qualities we have all had the opportunity to observe and admire,
5.3 The choice of Nairobi as the seat of the nineteenth session of the General Conference, like  the choice of Mexico City in 1947, Beirut in 1948, Florence in 1950, Montevideo in 1954 and New  Delhi in 1956 is indeed a continuation of Unesco's initial quest for discovery of the world, It is  most auspicious that, today, we should find ourselves on African soil to discuss the first Draft  Programme and Budget, as well as the first real Draft Medium -Term Plan prepared by Unesco's  first African Director-General,
5.4 Now let me say to you: Welcome to Africa, welcome to Kenya and welcome to Nairobi. In  one sense, by coming here you have returned home, since it is believed, until we hear to the  contrary, that the human species originated in this part of the world. We should, however, also  feel at home because here, as elsewhere in the world, you find people locked in daily combat  with the problems that, in one way or another, are a central concern to all Member States of  Unesco: the problems of unawareness, problems of poverty and inequity, From wherever you  may come, welcome to the front line of our common struggle for equality and development.
5.5 Allow me to address a special welcome home to Mr. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, the new  Director-General of Unesco, and to congratulate him on his election to this high office, Mr, M'Bow  is an outstanding educator, statesman and diplomat in whom we have full confidence and trust.
5.6 Last, but not least, may I have the honour and pleasure of welcoming to Unesco those States  that have become members of our Organization since the last session of the General Conference.  Namely, Surinam, Papua New Guinea, Mozambique, Grenada and Seychelles. This is another  step in the right direction of universality of membership of the Organization,
5.7 Ladies and gentlemen, we are here for a serious five-week job. In the next five weeks we  shall discuss the programme of our Organization for the next biennium, 1977-1978, We shall  discuss the financial means and resources to implement that programme. We shall also discuss  the Medium -Term Plan of the Organization for the period 1977-1982, To be able to do justice  to the complex and challenging agenda before us, as we must do if we are to fulfil the mandate  entrusted to us by our respective governments and peoples, we shall need to restrain ourselves
270   from straying into irrelevant debate; we shall need to concentrate on our wor  frankly and precisely, sometimes "agreeing to disagree’,  to find a workable consensus.  k, discuss matters  But ultimately we shall seek and hope
5.8 Ihave called our agenda complex. This is perhaps something of an understatement when  one thinks not only of the extreme diversity of the issues to be discussed, but also of the climate  in which Unesco has had to work during the last two years. Here, I would lik  made by the Director-General in concluding his Introduction to the Draft Programme and Budget  for 1977-1978, an appeal to "the wisdom of all, In Kenya, and in Africa as a whole, we place  great store on the powers of wisdom and of wise men to help us go through the worst storms and  survive the severest droughts. I call on all here present to strive with humility and sincerity to  exercise wisdom so that this session of the General Conference will enable Unesco not merely  to survive but also to find a renewed way to its original and still valid ideals and principles. For  I am convinced that, although the original ideals and principles are still fully valid, the body  entrusted with their implementation, that is Unesco, must change, To change Unesco is the  challenge on our agenda I referred to a moment ago. At the risk of oversimplification, but taking  into account the very digilent and thoughtful work that went into the recently issued booklet Moving  towards change, let me say that, in my view, the challenge we face is to help and to enable Unesco  to bring about nationally as well as internationally a new social order in harmony with the new  economic order. This will require a reorientation of the Organization's activities in education,  science, culture and communication - a reorientation toward which the Draft Programme and  Budget for 1977-1978 and the Draft Medium -Term Plan are helpful first signposts.  e to echo the appeal
5.9 Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a complicated world, complicated by our own making,  We can make it better by upholding the fundamental virtues of human rights and liberties. To up-  hold these virtues requires determination and tolerance. In Europe some effort is being made in  that direction, I am thinking of the recently concluded Helsinki Conference on Security and Co-  operation in Europe. If some of the recommendations of that Conference are genuinely implemen-  ted, I believe this would contribute immensely to peace in the world, and might act as a stimulus  for other groups of nations to reach such an understanding. For peace is a global concept. Peace  in Europe may mean peace in the entire world, Conversely, there can be no secure and lasting  peace in Europe should violence and its causes persist elsewhere. Today, in Africa, unfortunately,  we are still affected by violence and its causes and we still have to contend with the problems that  arise therefrom: the liberation of parts of our continent still under colonial rule, apartheid,  national reconstruction, neo-colonialism, the restoration of authentic African culture, the prob-  lems of illiteracy, unawareness, problems of nutrition and disease. We have to reduce these  problems so that we can channel our energies towards social and economic development. In order  to do what ought to be done, we need determined co-operation both from within and from without -  bilaterally and multilaterally. Unesco already has suitable infrastructures to deal with some of  these problems, e.g. the International Bureau of Education, the International Institute of Educa-  tional Planning, the programme on Man and the Biosphere, UNISIST, and so forth. I call on all of  us to use these facilities effectively and to contribute to their success. Together in Africa and  around the world let us fight against the scourges threatening progress and peace, namely: unaware -  ness, illiteracy, poverty, racism, colonialism and neo-colonialism, Together let us cultivate  peaceful minds and peaceful thoughts. Together let us give a meaning to the concept of a new  international economic order, and together let us develop a new philosophy of life which would  lead us to a more harmonious and peaceful coexistence.
5.10 Document 19 C/5 - the Draft Programme and Budget - is a tool designed to show us the way  to deal with some of these objectives. I note that the Director-General has suggested a very rich  programme, and a very modest budget to carry out this programme for the 1977-1978 biennium,  He has given the reasons for this budget and, I personally so far, am satisfied with these reasons.  I am inclined to think that when it comes to discussing the budget ceiling the Director -General's  arguments will be given due consideration.
5.11 A new, but very important, document is being introduced for the first time to this session  of the General Conference, This is the Draft Medium -Term Plan (1977-1982), a document that is  outstandingly useful for planning purposes and one that gives the Organization a real sense of direc-  tion in terms of objectives. I trust the objectives outlined in document 19 C/4 will stimulate lively  discussions and it is my sincere hope that ways and means will be found to adopt this document as  a permanent feature of Unesco's programming process.
5.12 Let me share a secret with you, ladies and gentlemen, before I sit down. It is this, that  when I addressed the 1972 session of the General Conference as leader of the Kenyan delegation I  never, for one moment, thought that one day I would hold high office as one of the leaders of  Unesco, I can only say that each person's future prosperity and growth remain latent, until the  moment comes, often when we least expect it, for them to be revealed, To all of you, distin-  guished delegates, I should like to say that we in Africa are very close to nature and we look at  the world's problems from a natural point of view, From a natural point of view, therefore, it is  clear and simple philosophy that no man, no woman, no village, no parish, no country, and no  nation would like to feel isolated by the rest of the world. The world of human beings is of the  opinion that we should all belong to one another. Efforts to isolate other people from the rest  of the peoples of the world are destructive and not constructive. My philosophy of life is always  that of healing wounds rather than pricking or scratching them. I hope that our aim in this Confer-
271   ence will also be that of healing wounds and not that of causing further hurts and tensions, Let us  have goodwill towards one another.  llow me, ladies and gentlemen, to express my sincere hope that this nine.  teenth session of the General Conference of Unesco will constitute a new chapter and a new contri.  bution by Unesco towards international understanding, peaceful Ly and friendship among  all peoples of the world, I wish the Conference every success. ank you.
5,13 In conclusion, a  st duty now is to give the floor to H. E. Mr. Agblemagnon, i lemen, my fir ; :  à sg ’ to continue with the presentation of his report,  Chairman of the Nominations Committee,
6.1 M. AGBLEMAGNON (Togo) (président du Comité des candidatures). -  Monsieur le Président, avant de présenter la suite du rapport du Comité des candidatures,  permettez-moi en quelques secondes de vous adresser au nom du Comité, au nom de ma déléga-  tion et en mon nom personnel toutes nos félicitations pour votre brillante élection à lé présidence  de cette dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale. Je suis d'autant plus ravi que j'ai eu  l'honneur de travailler avec vous au cours de précédentes sessions de la Conférence générale, Je  saisis aussi cette occasion pour adresser à S. Exe, Mme Jéborû, présidente sortante de la Con-  férence générale, toutes nos félicitations et tous nos voeux pour la poursuite de ses travaux au  service de cette Organisation qu'elle a servie pendant de si nombreuses années,
6.2 Monsieur le Président, comme vous le savez, le chapitre suivant de notre rapport concerne  l'élection des vice-présidents de la Conférence générale, et à ce sujet nous avons eu à débattre  de trois points : d'abord le problème juridique que pose la suspension de l'application de certains  articles, en deuxième lieu la question du nombre des vice-présidents, et en troisième lieu les  propositions complètes concernant les pays suggérés.
6.3 En ce qui concerne la suspension de l'application de certains articles, le président du Conseil  exécutif, M. Hector Wynter, a informé les membres du Comité que le Conseil exécutif a proposé  que le nombre des vice-présidents soit porté de 15 à 21 et que pendant la dix-neuvième session de  la Conférence générale l'application des articles 30, paragraphes 1, 34, paragraphes 1 et 38,  paragraphe 1, du Règlement intérieur soit suspendue, dans la mesure où ces dispositions ont trait  au nombre des vice-présidents.
6.4 Sur la proposition du délégué de l'Egypte, le Comité a décidé de recommander à la Conférence  générale de porter, pour sa dix-neuvième session, le nombre des vice-présidents de 15 à 22,
6.5 Après avoir entendu les propositions du Conseil exécutif concernant les 21 postes de vice-  présidents de la Conférence générale, la proposition de l'Egypte consistant à présenter la candi-  dature de la France, appuyée par les délégués du Bénin, du Ghana, de l'Inde, de l'Iran, du Maroc  et de la Turquie, et la proposition du délégué de l'Inde tendant à ce que la candidature de son pays  soit remplacée par celle de Sri Lanka, le Comité a décidé par acclamation de proposer à la Con-  férence générale comme candidats aux postes de vice-présidents de la Conférence générale les  chefs de délégation des pays suivants : Algérie, République fédérale d'Allemagne, Argentine,  Canada, Chine, Côte d'Ivoire, Danemark, France, Ghana, Jamaïque, Japon, République arabe  libyenne, Maroc, Népal, Pays-Bas, Sri Lanka, République arabe syrienne, Union des républiques  socialistes soviétiques, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yougoslavie et Zafre. Merci, Monsieur le Président,
7.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Nominations Committee, As he has just proposed to you, we need  to suspend for the duration of the nineteenth session of the General Conference the application of  the provisions of Rule 30, paragraph 1, Rule 34, paragraph 1, and Rule 38, paragraph 1, which  refer to the number of Vice-Presidents of the General Conference,
7.2 Inow put to the vote the question of suspending those paragraphs of the Rules of Procedure,  (Voting was by show of hands, )
7.3 It is unanimously agreed that those paragraphs be suspended for the duration of the present  session of the Conference,
7.4 I now give the floor to the delegate of Morocco,  . - 1 WE = A  (ried) ge ll deme 2  ,— Je ” Suspendre ” abil pe <1 3 Pare SNL ; 15 3
(8) M. EL FASI (Maroc), - (Traduit de l'arabe. )  Je voulais signaler que la traduction arabe du mot "suspendre" est "-%;" et non "5." . Il s'agitbien  d'une Suspension, comme nous en étions convenus hier, ettel est le sens de ce que je viens d'entendre en  français. Je pense que les autres langues ont aussi donné une interprétation exacte. Mais, en arabe, il  est dit”3:." , c'est-à-dire "élimination complète". En fait, nous avons suspendu les paragraphes en quês- tion seulement pour la durée de cette session. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
9,1 The PRESIDENT:  We can now proceed to the election of the 22 Vice-Presidents of th We « 2 e General Conference, Th  Nominations Committee has proposed the heads of the delegations of the following Member ie Algeria, Argentina, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana  Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Libyan Arab Republic, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands Sri Lanka  Syrian Arab Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Uruguay, Venezuela Yugoslavia  Zaire.  : :  (The Conference signified its agreement by spontaneous applause, )
10,2 I declare the representatives of these countries elected by acclamation
10.3 I now ask the Chairman of the Nominations Committee to go on with his report.
10.1 M. AGBLEMAGNON (Togo) (président du Comité des candidatures). -  Monsieur le Président, sur proposition du Conseil exécutif, le Comité a en outre décidé de  recommander à la Conférence générale d'élire S. Exc. le professeur Abdel Wahab El Borolossy,  de la République arabe d'Egypte, président de la Commission du programme I (sciences exactes  et naturelles et sciences sociales), S. Exc. le professeur Nicolai Todorov, de la Bulgarie, pré-  sident de la Commission du programme II (éducation, culture et communication), S. Exc, le  Dr Gabriel Betancur Mejia, de la Colombie, président de la Commission du programme III (ques-  tions générales relatives au programme), M. Leonard Martin, du Royaume-Uni, président de la  Commission administrative, et M. William Jones, des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, président du  Comité juridique.
10.2 Si vous me le permettez, Monsieur le Président, je rappellerai en passant que le Comité  des candidatures a pris note du fait que le Comité de vérification des pouvoirs, lors de sa première  séance qui a eu lieu le matin du 26 octobre, a élu pour présidente S. Exc. le Dr Estefania Aldaba-  Lim, des Philippines, et que le Comité du Siège, qui s'est réuni avant la présente session de la  Conférence générale, a élu pour président M. Charles Hummel, de la Suisse, Merci, Monsieur  le Président.
11,1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
11.2 According to Rule 47 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, each Commission  elects its own Chairman, In accordance with the procedure adopted at previous sessions, I am  going to suspend the plenary meeting and call in this room, one after the other, meetings of the  three Programme Commissions and of the Administrative Commission, On the agenda of each of  these meetings there will be only one item namely the election of the Chairman,  (The plenary meeting was suspended. )
11.3 The first meeting of Programme Commission I (Natural Sciences and Social Sciences) is  called to order.
11,4 As you have heard, the Nominations Committee has proposed for the Chairmanship of this  Commission H.E, Dr. Abdel Wahab El Borolossy, member of the delegation of Egypt. In view of  the approval which you have just signified, I declare H.E. Dr. Abdel Wahab El Borolossy elected  by acclamation to the Chairmanship of Programme Commission I.
11,5 The first meeting of Programme Commission I is adjourned. I call to order the first meet-  ing of Programme Commission II (Education, Culture and Communication),
11.6 The Nominations Committee has proposed H. BE, Dr. Nikolaf Todorov, member of the dele-  gation of Bulgaria, as Chairman of this Commission. I take your applause as signifying your  approval and declare H, EB, Dr. Nikolai Todorov elected, by acclamation, Chairman of Programme  Commission II,
11,7 The first meeting of Programme Commission II is adjourned. I call to order the first meet-  ing of Programme Commission III (General Programme Matters).
11,8 The Nominations Committee has proposed for Chairmanship of this Commission H, E. Dr.  Gabriel Betancur Mejia, member of the delegation of Colombia, In view of the approval which :  you have just signified I declare H. E. Dr. Gabriel Betancur Mejia, elected by acclamation, Chair-  man of Programme Commission III,
11.9 The first meeting of Programme Commission III is adjourned, I call to order the first meet-  ing of the Administrative Commission.
11,10 The Nominations Committee proposes for Chairmanship of this Commission Mr. Leonard  C.J. Martin, head of the delegation of the United Kingdom, I take your applause as signifying  your approval of this choice and declare Mr. Leonard Martin, elected by acclamation, Chairman  of the Administrative Commission,
11,11 The first meeting of the Administrative Commission is adjourned. The third plenary meet.  ing will now resume.  (The plenary meeting was resumed. )  airmen of the Credentials, Nominations and Headquarters  d. All that remains to be done to complete the General  f the Chairman of the Legal Committee.
11,12 Ladies and gentlemen, the Ch  Committees have already been electe  Committee is therefore the election o
11,13 I invite members of the Legal Committee to send their representatives to the meeting which  will take place in Room VII immediately after this meeting. The only item on the agenda of that  meeting of the Legal Committee will be the election of its Chairman,  ind you that the following 21 countries were elected to the Legal Commit.  eneral Conference: Argentina, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin,  ederal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Italy, Lebanon, Liberia,  n, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom of  States of America and Venezuela.
11.14 I would like to rem  tee by the eighteenth session ofthe G  Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, France, F  Netherlands, Panama, Somalia, Spai  Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
11.15 The President, the 22 Vice -Presidents, and the Chairmen of the Commissions and Commit-  tees constitute the General Committee which will meet in Room VII, 20 minutes after the end of  this plenary meeting. This first meeting of the General Committee will deal with the recommenda-  tions of the Executive Board concerning the organization of the work of the nineteenth session of  the General Conference, and at our plenary meeting this afternoon I shall give you an oral report  on its deliberations.  ADMISSION TO THE NINETEENTH SESSION OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE OF  OBSERVERS FROM INTERNATIONAL NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS  ADMISSION D'OBSERVATEURS D'ORGANISA TIONS INTERNATIONALES NON  GOUVERNEMENTALES A LA DIX-NEUVIEME SESSION DE LA CONFERENCE GENERALE  ADMISION DE OBSERVADORES DE ORGANIZACIONES INTERNACIONALES NO  GUBERNAMENTALES EN LA 19a, REUNION DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL  JOIIY CK HABIOIATEJEÏ MEXIYHAPOIHbIX HEIPABHTEJLCTBEHHbIX OPTAHH3AIHH  HA IEBATHAIMATYIO CECCUI0O PTEHEPAJNBHOH KOHSEPEHIHH  plead) 5$ M 3 és Ban ll Bg ad) gion dogs lé ah Wl Lil go Gud Le ds
12.1 We now take item 7 of our agenda (Admission to the nineteenth session of observers from  international non-governmental organizations, on the recommendation of the Executive Board).
12.2 I give the floor to the Chairman of the Executive Board.
13,1 Mr. WYNTER (Jamaica), Chairman of the Executive Board:  Mr. President, before I comment on document 19 C/10 may I extend to you the congratulations  of the Executive Board and of myself on your election as President. We are quite certain that your  spirited leadership will enhance the dignity andthe work of this Organization, and I should like,  through you, Mr, President, to express the Executive Board's sincere gratitude to the outgoing  President, Mrs. Jôborû, for her dedicated interest in the work of the Board in representing the  views and the wishes of the General Conference in the past two years. We thank her sincerely  and we wish her well. May I also congratulate all the Vice-Presidents and all the Chairmen of  Commissions who were elected by acclamation this morning.
138.2 Mr. President, I would now invite the attention of delegates to document 19 C/10, With  reference to Article IV, paragraph 13 of the Constitution, and in accordance with Rule 7 of the  Rules of Procedure of this Conference, the Board is authorized to submit recommendations on the  applications made to the Director-General by some international non-governmental organizations  which are in category C - that is organizations in the category called "mutual information relation-  ship" - wishing to send observers to the present session of the General Conference, I should  point out that the 233 non-governmental organizations which are in the ''consultative'' categories  A and B have been automatically invited in accordance with the regulations and as stated in docu-  ment 19 C/10, as a result of which, as at 12 October, 11 organizations in category A and 25 in  category B had indicated to the Director-General that they would be sending observers. Here,  however, we are concerned only with organizations in category C. As indicated in document
19 C/10, the Executive Board had invited the Director-General to continue sending the provisional  agenda of the sessions of the General Conference to non-governmental organizations in category C  for information, In accordance with this decision, the Director-General on 6 August 1976 commu-  nicated the provisional agenda for this session to the organizations in category C. By 26 September,  two of those organizations in category C, the Association for Teacher Education in Africa and the  Arab Lawyers' Union, had expressed a wish to be represented by observers at the nineteenth  session of the General Conference. Accordinly, their requests were considered by the Executive  Board at the first part of our 100th session in Paris, and the Board decided to recommend to the
274   General Conference the admission of observers from these two non-governmental organizations.  The relevant decision of the Board appears in paragraph 8 of document 19 C/10 and the operative  paragraph reads as follows:  "The Executive Board,  oso  Decides to recommend to the General Conference that it invite the Association for Teacher  Education in Africa and the Arab Lawyers' Union, which are international non-governmental  organizations in category C, to be represented by observers at its ninteenth session’.
13,3 And now, Mr. President, Ihave pleasure in submitting to the Conference, through you, that  recommendation of the Executive Board. Thank you, Mr, President.
14,1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Executive Board. I now put to the Conference the recommenda-  tion contained in paragraph 8 of document 19 C/10 concerning the admission, as observers, of the  these two international non-governmental organizations.
14,2 There are no objections, The admission as observers of the Association for Teacher Educa-  tion in Africa and the Arab Lawyers' Union is approved unanimously and by acclamation,
14,3 Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is adjourned,  The meeting rose at 11.05 a, m,  La séance est levée à 11 h, 05  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 11, 05