Twenty-second plenary meeting
8 November 1976 at 10.10 a.m.  President: Mr. TOWEETT (Kenya)  Vingt-deuxième séance plénière
8 5Hos0pa 1976 r. B 10 uy, 10 MuH.  Ilpexcexarers: r-H TOYSTT (Kexna)  oasis SH BI dl  lo ll ay WI) Gordini A  (LS) ngs’ allies I  DEFINITION OF REGIONS WITH A VIEW TO THE EXECUTION BY THE ORGANIZATION OF  REGIONAL ACTIVITIES (Item 45 of the agenda)  DEFINITION DES REGIONS EN VUE DE L'EXECUTION PAR L'ORGANISATION DES ACTIVITES  DE CARACTERE REGIONAL (Point 45 de l'ordre du jour)  DEFINICION DE LAS REGIONES CON MIRAS A LA EJECUCION DE LAS ACTIVIDADES DE  CARACTER REGIONAL DE LA ORGANIZACION (Punto 45 del Orden del Dfa)  OINPE IE JIEHHE PAHOHOB B IEJAX OCYIECTBJIEHHA OPTAHH3AIHEÏ MEPONPHATHH  PETHOHAJBHOTO XAPAKTEPA (nyHKT 45 noBecTKH IHS)  (JV dyn or to idl) RAI ALI din, Eh pas Glass Li Glial) yun
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  We now come to item 45 of the agenda: Definition of regions with a view to the execution by  the Organization of regional activities. The relevant document is document 19 C/119.
1.2 I give the floor to the Chairman of Programme Commission III to present the Commission's  report on the above item.
(2.1) Mr. BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia), Chairman of Programme Commission III. (Translation from  the Spanish):  Mr. President, as this is the first time I have taken the floor during a plenary meeting, I should like  to express to you my most sincere congratulations on your election as President of the General Conference,
(2.2) Item 45 of the agenda concerning the definition of regions with a view to the execution by the Organi-  zation of regional activities was referred to Programme Commission III. The Commission took up the  item on 3 November at its 11th and 12th meetings. I should like to recall that the General Conference, at  its eighteenth session, considered the question of the definition of regions with a view to the execution of  regional activities and decided in resolution 46. 1 to examine at its nineteenth session any outstanding ques-  tions, together with the cases of States which might become members of the Organization after the adop-  tion of this resolution,
(2.3) In decision 98 EX/6. 1, the Executive Board recommended that the General Conference take all  appropriate measures to complete the list of Member States empowered to participate in the regional  activities of the Organization,
(2.4) The Commission began its study of this important agenda item with a presentation of the above-  mentioned decision by the Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr. Hector Wynter, who reminded the Com-  mission that the only question it had to deal with was paragraph 5. The first speaker to take the floor  proposed that this paragraph be approved. Immediately, six speakers supported the proposal; four other  speakers, while not opposing it, raised certain questions and doubts about the outcome of the action pro-  posed for completing the list relating to regional activities.
(2.5) The closure of the debate was moved and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Chairman  gave the floor to one speaker who supported the motion and to two others who opposed it. The motion for  closure was immediately put to the vote and was carried by 65 votes to 22, with 5 abstentions.
(2.6) After announcing the result of the vote, the Chairman read out paragraph 5 of 98 EX /Decision 6.1,  which was before the Commission. Before proceeding to a vote, however, the Chairman gave the floor  to various delegates who raised points of order, One of them asked the Legal Adviser to explain para-  graph 4 of the Executive Board's decision. Another read out a draft resolution relating to the item that  was about to be voted on, but which the Chairman could not accept since it had been submitted after the  Commission's decision to close the debate. Paragraph 5 of the Executive Board's decision, as contained  in document 19 C/119, was put to the vote and approved by 68 votes to none, with 14 abstentions. There-  upon the meeting rose and was resumed at 3 p.m.
(2.7) After opening the afternoon meeting, the Chairman gave the floor to the Legal Adviser and to the  Chairman of the Executive Board to reply to the questions which had been raised. Nine delegates then  explained their vote. Consequently, Mr. President, the draft recommendation which the Commission  submits to the plenary for its consideration reads as follows: ''The General Conference decides to take  all appropriate measures to complete the list of Member States empowered to participate in the regional  activities of the Organization as it emerges from resolution 13 C/5, 91 and resolution 18 C/46. 1, taking  into account the principles set forth in those decisions and resolutions and on the basis of the proposals  of the Member States already included in each of the various regions'. Thank you Mr. President.
3.1 The PRESIDENT: 22  Ladies and gentlemen you have heard what the Chairman of Programme Commission III has had  to say. Before I give the floor to any speaker, I wish to make the following statement. Ifthe plenary  adopts the procedural position thus recommended this is the way in which I intend to proceed with  its application. First, I will establish with the General Committee the manner of consulting the  groups of Member States now on the regional lists; secondly, I will carry out those consultations  with each group; thirdly, the results of these consultations will be submitted to the plenary at  another meeting, the date of which will be fixed by the General Committee.
3.2 Now, does any delegate wish to speak? The delegate of Iraq has the floor.  ; ; (Gall) jos pale woudl — €)  JB le a I let last il oh ell Laine Vie Al SH par Ml lI, ot ANG aw « USE  sens lo 5 Lol, *1ul  a Ra INE SSI eM hon 1 Bes i (YY 7p) A) Bel VS st SN Igo oy  pes nlp ll ll gt hl tls pg las Blot VA Uh papa is Us op  F $A Luis wes ol Wd. CV/pNA  lp PL TEE EE ee el RSL ous lab eut  Colbie Gyr « Ül> omy le plaisYleall 1 ddl Ils pad ule 4 olin LS 15)  ; Jbl lie clan go lite aud ss + pers 0 Lean élus e Yad) sin oY eld,  oa ll "broad consensus" à,Le aves bo Joo Luin! dla] 5 Leb wal. BIB gg  lis som By lall oda coy By Lele, 18 oe Ms 6 adil gd) QA Balls LA]  TREE CP (ETI LIE Te DS I OT DL FR RE TR ARE CE E pp  Ls bushy of pl als oof Lis 8 pW aaile «Lil 5s lS GS cpl) das Wale lo dans of  ¢ Llacudl  Spriadln) Pis lh 2 3 as L 957 3S All URI 3 0 NEES LINE, Le unes LIL Las, — 40  SRI Je EL NI ISSUE AE Ee EI cor 1 ae VE RD er  y—#laloïe ps” 30, lll Boll” Ble cs 151 . Whi JS Jou els, « Bll {sal Elus die Lob  clos dogs lus Lea Vel al) Jy alpen ols Gus ol), $e Lob «ala Spa, SSD  ed OISE San INT SOS ie, an SE LY Lar SEI Ss A  SPCR TY
(4.1) Mr. HIDAR (Iraq) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you Mr. President. I have some questions and inquiries for which I hope I shall get satisfac-  tory answers before expressing my views on this item.
(4.2) Firstly, the document before us (19 C/119) includes a specific draft resolution, but in Commis-  sion III we did not discuss such a draft. What we actually discussed and voted upon was the Director-  General's report contained in document 19 C/47. Could we have an explanation on this point?
(4.3) Secondly, we would like to have a clearer picture of the procedures to be followed after this stage  and to know whether we shall discuss at length in another session the individual cases of States that have  applied for membership of regions, since these cases differ from one another. We want a further clarifi-  cation of this point.
(4.4) Thirdly, in Commission III, we inquired about the exact meaning of the term "'broad consent  referred to in the decision adopted by the 98th session, and borrowed from a previous decision. This  term was rendered differently in the Arabic and French texts. I put this same question to the Legal  Adviser in Commission III, but we received an answer only after voting. In my opinion, this is contrary  to the Rules of Procedure, bearing in mind that the answer given by the Legal Adviser was not completely  clear to us.
(4.5) What is meant by the phrase "the principles set forth in those decisions and resolutions"? What  are these principles? Are they the three criteria laid down by the previous sessions of the General Con-  ference: Geographical situation, cultural affiliation and wishes of the Member States of each region? If  the phrase "principles set forth refers to these criteria, then they should apply to all the States that have  applied for membership with the exception of one member,
(4.6) We hope to get satisfactory answers to these questions, and reserve the right to intervene once  more if necessary.
5. The PRESIDENT:  With regard to the points that have been raised by the delegate of Iraq I would ask the Chairman  of Commission III to elucidate the matter further.
(6.1) Mr. BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia), Chairman of Programme Commission III. (Translation from  the Spanish):  Thank you Mr. President. It seems to me that the delegate of Iraq has raised two different questions:  one relating to procedure, the other to the interpretation of the approved text. I can answer the first  question, but the second, which refers specifically to the recommendation by the Board, should be  answered by its Chairman.
(6.2) The delegate of Iraq has asked why the Legal Adviser was not given the opportunity to reply to the  question raised concerning paragraph 4 of the Board's decision. The explanation is as follows: the  debate had been closed, and it was paragraph 5, not paragraph 4, on which a vote was to be taken. For  this reason, as soon as the recommendation of the Executive Board had been voted on, the Chairman of  the Commission gave the floor to both the Legal Adviser and the Chairman of the Executive Board so that  they could answer the questions concerning paragraph 4 of the Board's decision. Thank you Mr. President,
7. The PRESIDENT:  May I ask the Chairman of the Executive Board to add to this elucidation of the problem.
8.1 Mr. WYNTER (Jamaica), Chairman of the Executive Board:  Thank you, Mr. President. Ibelieve that the questions addressed by the delegate of Iraq through  you to me deal with the principles to which reference is made in the proposal from the Commission  to this plenary, based on paragraph 5 of the Board's resolution which is contained in paragraph 7 of  document 19 C/47. At the Commission meeting, on behalf of the Executive Board, I put this pro-  posal to the Commission. It was taken up by the representative of Benin and made into a motion.
8.2 These principles are set out quite clearly in document 19 C/47. Paragraph 5 of the resolution  set out under paragraph 7 of the document includes these words: "as it emerges from resolu-  tion 13 C/5.91 and resolution 18 C/46.1, taking into account the principles set forth in those deci-  sions and resolutions...'. So we are dealing with two decisions on resolutions 13 C/5.91 and
18 C/46.1 which can be found in paragraphs 2 and 3 of document 19 C/47. Paragraph 2 (resolu-  tion 13 C/5.91) simply states:  "The General Conference,  Decides that the following countries will participate in regional activities in which the repre-  sentative character of States is an important factor'',  after which the names of countries are listed in five groupings: Africa, Latin America and the Carib-  bean, Arab States, Asia and Europe. Paragraph 3 sets out the other decision of the General Con-  ference contained in the resolution 18 C/46.1, and it is here that the principles which were referred  to at the beginning of the debate are enunciated, as follows:  "Recognizing the fundamental principle whereby every Member State has the right and duty to  participate fully and regularly in the Organization's regional and international activities,  Desirous of helping to ensure that every Member State may exercise this right and perform  this duty".  These are the two principles which were adopted by the Conference and which I brought to the atten-  tion of the Commission before they began their debate.
8.3 Another point raised by the delegate of Iraq was the question of the term "broad consent’ to  be found in paragraph 4 of the resolution under paragraph 7 of document 19 C/47. I madeit clear,  Mr. President, to the Commission that this was not a part of the Executive Board's recommenda-  tion to the Commission or to the Conference. It was simply a quotation from a decision adoptedby  the Board for its own guidance. As I explained to the Commission this matter came up in 1974 be-  fore the eighteenth session of the General Conference. The Board was then considering how it in-  tended to proceed in discharging the responsibility given to it by the fourteenth session of the Gen-  eral Conference in dealing with applications from Member States which had not been classified at  the thirteenth session but which wished to attend regional meetings (category II), and before taking  certain decisions it prefaced these decisions by a considering clause which read as follows:  "Conscious however that the inclusion of a Member State in a region for the purposes of such  participation cannot be obtained without the broad consent of the Member States in the region  concerned''.  The Board cannot therefore give an answer as to the meaning of the term "broad consent'', since  it has no experience of operating what is in effect not an operative clause, but a preambular clause.  Thank you, Mr. President.
9.1 The PRESIDENT:  May I thank both the Chairman of Programme Commission III and the Chairman of the Execu-  tive Board for their very clear explanations on this item.
9.2 Since it is clear that nobody else wishes to speak on this matter, I now put to the vote the  resolution contained in document 19 C/119.  (Voting was by show of hands.)
9.3 The result of the vote is as follows: 70 votes in favour, none against and 17 abstentions. The  resolution is adopted.
9.4 I give the floor to the delegate of China.
10. Mr. HU SHA (China):  Mr. President, the Chinese delegation voted in favour of the draft resolution contained in
19 C/119. Nevertheless, we wish to point out that we are firmly opposed to the participation of  the Soviet Union in the Asia and Oceania group as shown in 18 C/ Resolution 46.1. We wish to re-  iterate our opposition to this decision. Thank you, Mr. President.
11. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of China and give the floor to the delegate of Cuba.
(12) Mr. LE RIVEREND (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much Mr. President. I simply wish to point out that we abstained on this occasion  as we did during the 98th session of the Executive Board with regard to paragraph 5 of decision 6.1. We  are not opposed to the principle, but to the possible outcome, which in certain cases may not help to  improve the composition of the groups, whatever it may be. Thank you very much.
13. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Cuba and call on the delegate of Yugoslavia.
14. Mr. BOZOVIC (Yugoslavia):  Mr. President, the delegation of Yugoslavia abstained from voting because of paragraph 4 of  the Executive Board decision. We did so not because the principles which were enunciated in that  decision were not acceptable to us, but because of certain developments in Commission IIL. Some  questions had been asked and it was understood that more were to come. But then, out of a blue  sky, comes a proposal to vote on just one paragraph, concerning the delicate question of "broad  consent'!. We were not given the opportunity to ask questions because of the motion to close the  debate, nor did we have the privilege of hearing the Legal Adviser before a vote was taken. Then  after the Executive Board's reference to "broad consent’ we were called on to adopt the paragraphs  recommending that the General Conference "take all appropriate measures to complete the list of  Member States... taking into account the principles set forth in those decisions and resolutions  and on the basis of the proposals of the Member States already included in each of the various  regions''. We had wanted, Mr. President, to know what this meant, but we were not given the op-  portunity to ask. We had therefore to abstain on this resolution in spite of the principles being  acceptable to us. Thank you, Mr. President.
15. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I call on the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
16. I'-u CMHPHOB (Cons Coserckux Conuanucruiyeckux Pecny61uK):  I"-u Ipexcezarers CoBeTckasi nererauxa TAKXe XOTesla Gb H3NOXHTB HEKOTOPHE COOOpaXeHHs  MO MOTHBAM TONOCOBAHNHS. Ÿ nenerauxnn CCCP HeT COMHEHHS B BONPOCE yYaCTHA CTPAH-UJIEHOB B  pernoHanbHOH nesTerbHOcTrH. CoserckHä Cons cunTaer oTy NeATelIBHOCTB H6OOXOJHMON, Y Hac Her  COMHeHHÏ OTHOCHTeJIBHO YYaCTHH B PerHOHax, HanpuMep TaKHX cTPaH, Kak AHrosa win MosamOHK,  HIM OPyTHX CTPaH, npHHanIexaux K KaKOMy-TO ONnpexerreHHoMy pañony H BCTyNawolUX B STOT pe-  THOH. BMecTre c Tem y nenerauud CCCP ecTrb comHeHHAa H aXe BO3PakKeHHS OTHOCHTEJIBHO YYACTHA  CcTpaH, He nphHaIexauux K JAHHOMY perHOHy, B Je#TeJIBHOCTH HMEHHO 9TOTO perHOHa. O6 arom  nereraunsa CCCP rosopuia Ha Komuccun III n H311OXHIA CBOH apryMeHTh NO STOMY BONPOCY. GTHM  H 06h4ACHAeTCH TO, 4To CoBeTckHil CO103 MPH FONOCOBAHHH STOTO BONPOCA BO3KEPXANCH. Cnacu6o,  r-H Ilpexcezaresb.
(16) Mr. SMIRNOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you Mr. President. The Soviet delegation would also like to make a few remarks in explana-  tion of its vote, The delegation has no doubts about the question of the participation of Member States in  regional activities. The Soviet Union considers such activities essential. We have no doubts concerning
22 the participation in regional activities of such countries, for instance, as Angola and Mozambique, or of  other countries belonging to any specific region and forming part of it. At the same time, the delegation  has doubts and even objections concerning the participation of countries which do not belong to a given  region in the activities of that region. The USSR delegation referred to this matter in Commission III  and explained its views on the subject. This is the reason why the Soviet Union abstained in the vote on  this matter. Thank you Mr. President.
17. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I call on the delegate of Iraq to speak first, followed by the delegate of Egypt.  {lai} Co Boonie pus ally Sud Lee  AE Ba) 5 Lai Li lin 58 il, cepa) 5 Sd J Lady of © out) ad LS  Let iad ¢ lle LY «BL gL Ba od Vin Liey © pil ui os © Lale Cows ¢ 40 LS  cll Last Litiges Jlsally sipseilus Guess Yois Jb oh thon Aa  LY € cpl nts ogy + Boll) oda dés cum pa La Lo hw! le Ga Ÿ € Lt,  Louis gegelaJ 1 Las, IIS . coll SSeS das Boldin 5 o! te LE LY Sas « nl  SES EI SE er Ie Ul als Eso Lad! 000 Suds 5e,
(18) Mr. AL BASSAM (Iraq) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you Mr. President. Our delegation abstained from voting. We also adopted a similar line in  Commission III, as did other delegations. In so doing, we have never questioned the established prin-  ciples. We believe that they are valid for all States that have applied for membership such as Angola,  Mozambique, San Marino, Somalia, Mauritania and others, We believe, however, that they do not apply  to Israel. What counts for us is the proper implementation of these principles. We abstained because  we did not have adequate assurances that these principles would be properly implemented. Our final  stand will be defined in the light of their application to each individual case. Thank you.
19. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. I now call upon the delegate of Egypt to speak.  (All pa Bopper) JS! piled pS all all — x.  rio grt) Lad) Jo dus pnt) « pail] 5 Las pl me Sy 1 + ut} ie 150  & Lele “Lae Jy alps mas VV abs Lee ol sue US pes Lilly Lita, 1 Gb amos 5 p Los  sie CAEN LIN a JO US ppb iy © ily «Gulia pate (yards pain) Badlands!  ER JEL LUS 512 TI LE Pee SW ie A VE PA SO Livlghs ! Jy 51 Ge iS Boe Ce  ts Larios + Suionl | 5 égal VAN AL Li Bly 0 I) Mis] 5 biome M oF 55 Mt ga  col Gane 18a, . a, B ed
(20) Mr. EL-WAKIL (Egypt) (Translation from the Arabic):  The Egyptian delegation abstained in order to facilitate the work of this session of the General Con-  ference and to contribute to its success on this continent of Africa. However, we believe that the ques-  tion of regional activities and the definition of regions in this connection is not governed by harmonious,  co-ordinated and clear rules. This was reflected in the attitude adopted by many Member States during  the eighteenth session. Our abstention therefore indicates that a thorough study should be made in the  future of Unesco's regional activities and the definition of regions according to well-defined criteria,  Thank you Mr. President,
21. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. I call on the delegate of Syria to speak.  (Gopal Vaal Vag pand 1) Joue lus pS all ad 1 yy)  Les! FOF pula] Sig + cpaill ola PPT ETEES  ANFERONTES TIAL INT Beal, 989 ç ps pull 251 0 LY oil! Ls!  Lu! al  :  BU sly Gaal) Glad 0599 GES A] ae wy Le putin il) ec Win L308 of ma Lois go! VON  Lsdidsy wig uty pH (6 Fla LUS  Jl € pam oc Gp Rall) ge «HABITAT JI SLs) ds AS 51 SI YT  Lo pd] dae JE Galle Yl 5 ym Ly «pte onl) ual) 9 Leal © bells glo ol!  ne ER ERIE SITET De Fo Lan) ET ire CY semi  JS eet You dla gl « cleall lon Vox WSs. 3lyludlpu3 Je LA ¥ cles gl Jy) of Ve dap]  Preeti Se LE RE I) on 4 Ja sé 9 « POPC ES) NES I SS & Ete anil  pare Alpe lily à LEladlp aus Jy Sr canis cisll js 8 duels i Le LJ 0  Ends dl gl 3e vu 5S 3,6 dla aed] Cos 55 JlIly < Lud, 318 usual lim) cé F1
(22.1) Mr. MURAYWID (Syrian Arab Republic) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you Mr. President. Our delegation abstained from voting. We felt we should facilitate the  task and ensure the success of this session of the General Conference held for the first time in the con-  tinent of Africa,
(22.2) Our delegation fully endorses the reservations expressed by the delegations of Iraq and Egypt. We  also take note of the remarks made by the head of the Yugoslav delegation.
(22.3) In fact, the issue of the definition of regions for the purpose of regional activities has not yet been  fully clarified from the legal point of view. Discussions on this issue during the eighteenth session and in  the meetings of Commission III a few days ago have confirmed this fact. So much for the form. As re-  gards principles and substance, the international community and our Conference, especially our Arab  group, cannot consider all the States that apply for membership as equally eligible, As was said this  morning, there are States that are worthy of belonging to regional organizations and of participating fully  in their various activities because they contribute actively and adopt a positive attitude. On the other  hand, there are States that have long turned a deaf ear to the texts adopted by the international community,  whether in the United Nations or in our Organization. There are thus great and fundamental differences  between these two categories of States, which should not be treated on the same footing. In fact they  differ as regards principles, essentials and attitudes towards the causes of freedom and peace. I refer  in particular to the State of Israel. We are opposed to its admission because it has violated all the basic  international rights and principles, especially in so far as African and Arab causes are concerned. Thank  you Mr. President.
23. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The delegate of France has the floor.
24.1 M. FAURE (France). -  Monsieur le Président, la position de la France sur la question délicate des régions de  l'Unesco a été exposée à maintes reprises dans le passé par nos représentants à la Conférence  générale ou au Conseil exécutif. Notre position n'a pas varié quant au fond.
24,2 Cependant, dès lors qu'il s'agissait de mettre en oeuvre des principes admis par tous, celui  de l'universalité de l'Organisation ou celui du droit et du devoir de tout Etat membre de participer  aux activités d'une région, nous avons cru devoir voter en faveur de la résolution qui nous était  proposée,
24,3 Nous estimons toutefois que la décision qui vient d'être prise ne peut être considérée que  comme une décision provisoire, qui ne devrait pas nuire dans l'avenir au règlement d'ensemble  du problème du Proche-Orient. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
25.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much.
25.2 As it appears that no one else wants to speak, I wish to rapeat what I said earlier. Now that  the plenary has adopted the procedural provisions, the following is the way in which I intend to pro-  ceed with their application. First, I will establish with the General Committee the manner of con-  sulting the group of Member States on a regional list. Second, I will carry out those consultations  with each group. Third, the results of these consultations will be submitted to the plenary at  another meeting, the date of which will be fixed by the General Committee.  SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATES FOR 1975-1976 DRAWN UP BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL  PREVISIONS SUPPLEMENTAIRES POUR 1975-1976 ETABLIES PAR LE DIRECTEUR GENERAL  PREVISIONES SUPLEMEN TARIAS PARA 1975-1976 PREPARADAS POR EL DIRECTOR GENERAL  MOMOJHHTEJBHBE CMETBI HA 1975-1976 rr., MONT OTOBJIEHHbIE PEHEPAJBHBIM  IHPEKTOPOM  pladl al Lady LS JaAY1—)AYo ele éslaYle 1 wall
26.1 The PRESIDENT:  We now move on to item 51 of the agenda: Supplementary estimates for 1975-1976 drawn up  by the Director-General. The documents are 19 C/92 and 19 C/121.
26.2 I now call on the Chairman of the Administrative Commission to speak on this item.
22 27.1 Mr. MARTIN (United Kingdom), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Thank you, Mr. President. May I first take this opportunity, as Chairman of the Administra.  tive Commission, to offer my congratulations to you in public upon your election as President of  the General Conference.
27.2 Mr. President, the document for item 51 (Supplementary estimates for 1975-1976) is docu-  ment 19 C/121 which has only just been distributed. The basic document for this item was orig-  inally document 19 C/92. The Administrative Commission discussed the question of the supple-  mentary estimates which are necessary for the current biennium, 1975-1976, at its ninth meeting  on Tuesday, 2 November. In the original document, 19 C/92, the amount of the supplementary  estimates shown was $7, 431,256. However, because of the improvement in the exchange rate of  the United States dollar against the French franc and due to the receipt of further contributions  towards the cost of holding the Conference in Nairobi, the amount of the supplementary estimates  has now been recalculated in the sum of $7, 100, 000 and this is made up of $6, 447, 000 to cover  the deficit arising because of currency fluctuation and $653, 000 to cover the extra cost of this  Conference. The changes in the original document were explained to the Administrative Commis-  sion by the representative of the Director-General, and at the end of the discussion the Commission  voted by 38 votes in favour, none against and 14 abstentions to recommend that the General Confer-  ence now giveits approval to the supplementary estimates for 1975-1976in the amount of $7, 100, 000  as shown in detail in document 19 C/121.
27.3 Mr. President, this item is presented to the plenary in advance of the other recommendations  of the Administrative Commission. As the voting of supplementary estimates places an obligation  on each Member State to pay its share of the supplementary contributions, the General Committee,  as you know, decided last Saturday that, in view of the extremely difficult treasury situation in which  Unesco finds itself, this matter of supplementary estimates should be dealt with by the plenary of  the Conference as a matter of urgency. The resolution before the plenary is set out in document
19 C/121. In this connection I would draw attention to the final paragraph of the resolution which  calls upon Member States not only to pay their supplementary contributions, but to pay them as  quickly as they can. Thank you, Mr. President.
28.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. As no delegation wishes to speak on the matter, I shall put the resolu-  tion as contained in document 19 C/121 to the vote.  (Voting was by show of hands.)
28.2 The result of the vote is as follows: 88 in favour, none against and 14 abstentions. The  resolution is therefore adopted.
28.3 The delegate of Cuba has the floor.
(29) Mr. LE RIVEREND (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you Mr, President. We voted in favour of this proposal since we have been aware for practi-  cally a year of the difficulties facing the Organization. We naturally have reservations regarding the  solutions, particularly those which result in increasing the contributions paid by the least developed  States. Nevertheless, since now is not the time to give a full explanation of our position, we reserve the  right to do so on another occasion in plenary. Thank you.  CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE V OF THE CONSTITUTION AND CON-  SEQUENTIAL DRAFT AMENDMENTS TO THE RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE GENERAL  CONFERENCE  EXAMIN DE PROJETS D'AMENDEMENTS A L'ARTICLE V DE L'ACTE CONSTITUTIF ET DE  PROJETS D'AMENDEMENTS CORRESPONDANTS AU REGLEMENT INTERIEUR DE LA CON-  FERENCE GENERALE  EXAMEN DE LAS PROPUESTAS DE MODIFICACION DEL ARTICULO V DE LA CONSTITUCION  Y DE LAS PROPUESTAS CONSIGUIENTES DE MODIFICACION DEL REGLAMENTO DE LA  CONFERENCIA GENERAL  PACCMOTPEHHE MNPOEKTOB IOINPABOK K CTATBE V YCTABA H IPOEKTOB  COOTBETCTBYDIIHX MOMPABOK K IIPABHJAM IIPOIEYPhI TEHEPAJIBHOH  KOH®EPEHIHH  Hal Wal 5 LI ALES seit sorte pyee C11 Sal ue OP FX) I JE) A J Je sas lee eH  p Lad! juga
30.1 The PRESIDENT: 22  Ladies and gentlemen, next on our list of items for consideration are items 18, 19, 20, 20.1,
21 and 21.1. I would suggest that these items, which all concern constitutional matters, be debated  together.
30.2 The first relates to the nature of the membership of the Executive Board and has its origin in  proposed amendments to the Constitution submitted by the Swedish delegation at the seventeenth ses-  sion of the General Conference in 1972. The number of the agenda item is 18 (and not 19, as indi-  cated on some documents) and relevant documents are documents 19 C/16 and Addenda.
30.3 The second question has to do with the replacement of amember of the Executive Board during  the course of his or her term of office for reasons other than death or resignation. The relevant  agenda items are: 19, 20 and 20.1 and the documents are 19 C/17, 19 C/32, 19 C/104 which con-  tain proposals submitted by Peru, Mexico and Italy, together with the Second Report of the Legal  Committee contained in document 19 C/118. The third question deals with proposals to increase  the number of members of the Executive Board. The agenda items are 21 and 21.1. The docu-  ments are 19 C/70 and 19 C/105 and Addendum, which contain proposals submitted by Burma and  Rwanda. There is also the First Report of the Legal Committee which is contained in docu-  ment 19 C/117.
30.4 I propose first to call upon the Chairman of the Legal Committee, Mr. William B. Jones of  the United States of America, to introduce the two reports of the Legal Committee dealingrespect-  ively with the second and third of these questions. I will then ask the Legal Adviser to introduce  item 18 and document 19 C/16, for which there is no separate report of the Legal Committee. After  the presentation of the two reports of the Legal Committee and the statement of the Legal Adviser,  I shall open a single debate on the three questions I have mentioned.
30.5 I now give the floor to the Chairman of the Legal Committee to present the two reports of that  Committee.
31.1 Mr. JONES (United States of America), Chairman of the Legal Committee:  Mr. President, first of all I wish to thank you for your clear and concise presentation of the  problems concerning these items.
31.2 I call the attention of the plenary to two documents: first, document 19 C/117, dated
5 November 1976, which contains the First Report of the Legal Committee, and secondly, docu-  ment 19 C/118, of the same date, which contains the Second Report of the Legal Committee. I will  now review the main points contained in those reports in the hope of properly clarifying the legal  problems involved.
31.3 As the First Report shows, the Legal Committee held its first meeting on 27 October, when  it considered item 21 of the agenda (draft amendment to Article V, paragraph 1, of the Constitution,  submitted by Burma), the document for which is document 19 C/ 170. It further considereditem 21.1  of the agenda (draft amendment proposed by Rwanda to the draft amendment submitted by Burma),  which is the subject of document 19 C/105.
31.4 In accordance with the decision taken by the General Conference on 27 October 1976 to refer  these items to the Legal Committee for its consideration and opinion, and after having heard a state-  ment by the Chairman of the Committee and the representative of the Director-General, the Legal  Committee considered the legal aspects of these two agenda items. Both agenda items are con-  cerned with anincrease in the membership of the Executive Board and an allocation of the additional  seats which would thus be created among the electoral groups established for the purpose of elections  to the Board and as defined by 15 C/Resolution 11.1, 16 C/ Resolution 13, 17 C/ Resolution 13.1. The  Committee also considered the procedure which the General Conference might follow in plenary  meeting for examining and voting on the proposals relating to these two agenda items.
31.5 The Committee then noted that the text of the draft amendment to the Constitution and the pro-  posed amendment to the draft amendment which were before it, had been communicated by the  Director-General to Member States and Associate Members within the time limit specified by  Article XIII, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, and by Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference which concern amendments to the Constitution or within the time limit specified  by Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure which concerns substantive changes in such amendments.  The Committee therefore considered that the General Conference had been seized in due form of the  proposals and that it could, if it so wished, proceed to examine and adopt them.
31.6 The Committee, however, noted that the proposals raised no legal obstacle and did not call  for any particular comments on its part. Some members having expressed their favourable or une  favourable views on the proposed increase in the membership of the Executive Board, the Commit-  tee, in accordance with previous practice, took the position that it was not for the Committee to  express an opinion on the advisability of increasing the membership of the Executive Board or on  the number which should be adopted, since these were questions of substance which fell only within  the competence of the General Conference itself.
22 31.7 The Committee further noted that, while the sponsors of the two proposals had indicated that  the increase in membership of the Executive Board was, in fact, designed to benefit electoral  groups III, IV and V, their proposals did not contain any precise proposal regarding the allocation  of the new seats among the members of these three groups. Moreover, no proposal of that kind  had been submitted by any other Member State. Consequently, the Committee noted that the text  which it was submitting to the General Conference could include no indication in that respect and  that it would therefore be for the General Conference itself to consider any proposals which might  be made on that subject.
31.8 After thoroughly considering the matter and envisaging various possibilities, the Committee  decided to recommend to the General Conference the following procedure for voting on the draft  amendment to the Constitution and the proposed amendment thereto. The Legal Committee recom-  mends that before the two texts are put to the vote, the General Conference should decide how the  resulting extra seats should be distributed among the groups, according to whether these extra  seats are four or five in number. After deciding on how the seats are to be distributed among the  electoral groups, the Conference would first vote on the subamendment submitted by Rwanda,  namely, the proposal to increase the membership of the Executive Board to 45. This proposal is,  in fact, a subamendment to the proposal made by Burma, but it is, at the same time, the farthest  removed from the present provision of 40 members. Should the proposal submitted by Rwanda be  adopted, the proposal submitted by Burma would no longer be applicable and would not be voted  upon. If, on the other hand, the General Conference should not adopt the proposal of Rwanda, it  would then, naturally, have to vote on the proposal submitted by Burma. Should this latter proposal  be rejected, the present provision of the Constitution, namely 40 seats, would remain unchanged.  No new proposal in addition to those submitted by Rwanda and Burma can now be submitted to the  General Conference since the prescribed time limit has now expired.
31.9 To facilitate the work at the Conference, the Legal Committee felt that it was preferable to  submit both proposals in the form of two separate draft resolutions. And as you can see, these  are contained in Annex I and Annex II to the First Report of the Legal Committee and the General  Conference should vote upon them in the order in which they have been submitted. It was the Com-  mittee's opinion that although the Conference could not vote on numbers other than those proposed  by Burma and Rwanda, that is respectively 44 or 45, it could, however, distribute the extra seats  as it wished, among the electoral groups, and in the way it deemed most advisable.
31.10 The Committee also draws the attention of the General Conference to the fact that the pro-  posal in question, submitted to the General Conference as items 21 and 21.1 of the agenda, have  administrative and financial implications which are set out in documents 19 C/70 Add. and
31.11 Finally, Mr. President, the Committee recalls, and calls to the attention of the General  Conference, that a resolution which contains a proposal to increase the membership of the Executive  Board and which consequently amends the Constitution of the Organization must be adopted by the  General Conference with a two-thirds majority. That concludes the First Report of the Legal  Committee.
31.12 I now call your attention to the Committee's Second Report, document 19 C/118. The report  refers to three items of the agenda: item 19 (draft amendment to Article V, paragraph 4, of the  Constitution and consequential draft amendment to Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference, submitted by Peru), which is to be found in document 19 C/17; item 20 (draft amend-  ment to Article V of the Constitution and consequential draft amendment to Rule 98 of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference, submitted by Mexico), which is to be found in document 19 C/32;  and item 20.1 (draft amendment submitted by Italy to the draft amendment submitted by Mexico),  which is to be found in document 19 C/104.
31.13 The Legal Committee examined first the draft amendment to the Constitution submitted by  Mexico and then the draft amendment submitted by Italy to the draft amendment submitted by Mexico.  The Committee was not required to examine the draft amendment to the Constitution submitted by  Peru, since the delegate of that country announced at the beginning of the meeting that his govern-  ment was withdrawing this proposal.
31.14 After hearing a statement by the representative of the Director-General, who pointed out that  the existing clause in the Constitution provided for the replacement of a member of the Executive  Board in the course of his term of office as we all know only in two cases, death or resignation, the  Committee heard the delegate of Mexico and the delegate of Italy, who explained the reasons for  their respective proposals, both of which related to the replacement of a member of the Executive  Board during his term of office because of exceptional circumstances. The delegate of Mexico ex-  plained that his proposal was not intended to break with the existing system governing the member-  ship of the Executive Board but merely to provide a solution to a problem which had arisen in the  past. To allow the represented State in exceptional circumstances to replace its representative on  the Executive Board would solve the difficulty which had arisen without thereby changing the basis  of the system. The draft amendment submitted by Italy to the amendment presented by Mexico was  not accepted by the delegate of Mexico because he considered that the proposed wording would give  rise to difficulty from the point of view of the sovereignty of States.
31.15 The delegate of Italy stated that his government agreed with the spirit of the amendment sub-  mitted by Mexico but had taken the view that, since exceptional circumstances were indeed involved,  it should be stipulated that the government concerned should be required, if only for reasons of inter-  national courtesy, to inform the Executive Board of the grounds for replacing its representative.
31.16 The Committee then proceeded to consider the legal aspects of the two items remaining on  its agenda. It also considered the procedure that the General Conference might follow, in plenary,  for discussing and voting on the proposals concerning these items, and for voting on the proposals  concerning item 18 (draft amendment to the Constitution submitted by Sweden) and on items 21 and
21.1 (increase in the number of members of the Executive Board).
31.17 The Committee noted that the text of the draft amendment to the Constitution and the draft  amendment to that draft amendment, submitted respectively by Mexico and Italy, had been com-  municated to Member States and Associate Members by the Director-General within the time limits  laid down in Article XIII, paragraph 1, of the Constitution and Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure  of the General Conference pertaining to amendments to the Constitution, or within those specified  in Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure for substantive changes in such amendments. After due de-  liberations, the Committee therefore considered that the proposals were properly submitted to the  General Conference and that the Conference could, if it so wished, examine and adopt them.
31.18 The Committee then turned its attention to the connection which it felt existed between the  proposals submitted by Mexico and Italy and the amendment to Article V of the Constitution, sub-  mitted by the delegation of Sweden at the seventeenth session of the General Conference, considera-  tion of which had been held over first to the eighteenth and now to the nineteenth session. That draft  amendment appeared as item 18 of the agenda of our current session, and is contained in docu-  ment 19 C/16.
31.19 The Committee then recalled that it had, at the seventeenth session of the General Confer-  ence, submitted a report on that item to the General Conference (document 17 C/93), the relevant  . passages of which were referred to in document 19 C/16, which the General Conference had decided  to examine first in plenary session.
31.20 The Committee took the view that the amendment presented in 1972 by Sweden, and the pro-  posals put forward at the current session by Mexico and Italy, were mutually exclusive as regards  their content. Indeed, inasmuch as the Swedish proposal was to the effect that States - and not  nominated individuals - should be elected to membership of the Executive Board, questions con-  cerning the death, resignation or replacement of those representatives during their term of office  would no longer arise once the Swedish amendment had come into effect.
31.21 The Committee nevertheless considered itself bound to draw the attention of the General Con-  ference to the fact that the amendment submitted by Sweden, if it were adopted at the current ses-  sion, would enter into force and effect either, at the earliest, immediately before the elections to  the Executive Board to be held during the twentieth session of the General Conference, in 1978, or  even later, according to the decision the General Conference would be called upon to take before  the amendment itself was put to the vote. Therefore, depending on whether the General Conference  decided that such amendment either did not or did involve new obligations for Member States, that  amendment would enter into force either immediately before the elections to be held during the twen-  tieth session, or else immediately before the elections to be held during the first ordinary session  of the General Conference following the deposit of the number of acceptances requiredby Article XIII  of the Constitution (cf. document 19 C/16, Annex II, paragraph 3).
31.22 Therefore, since an interval of at least two years would, in any case, have to elapse between  the adoption of the Swedish amendment and its taking effect, the General Conference would accord-  ingly have to decide whether, even in the event of the Swedish amendment being adopted, it would be  desirable to take a decision on the proposals submitted by Mexico and Italy. These, if adopted,  would be in effect only until the Swedish amendment became operative.
31.23 After a thorough examination of the question, and after considering various possibilities, the  Legal Committee decided to recommend the following procedure to the General Conference for voting  on the draft amendment submitted by Mexico (item 20), the draft subamendment submitted by Italy  (item 20.1) and the draft amendments covered by item 18 (Sweden), item 21 (Burma), item 21.1  (subamendment proposed by Rwanda).
31.24 The Committee therefore recommends that the General Conference decide first on the pro-  posals designed to increase the number of members of the Executive Board and to distribute the  additional seats among the electoral groups. Reference should be made in this connection to the  First Report of the Legal Committee, which you have just heard.
31.25 The Committee further recommends that the General Conference then decide on the amend-  ment submitted by Sweden. The General Conference should, however, decide beforehand on the  question of the date of entry into force of the Swedish amendment, if adopted, by opting for one or  the other of the possibilities appearing in paragraph 3 of the draft resolution contained in Annex II  of document 19 C/16. The Committee recalls that it expressed the opinion at the seventeenth ses-  sion that the decision on this point should be made by a simple majority vote. Shouldthe General
22 Conference pronounce in favour of the draft amendment submitted by Sweden, the Legal Committee  should then be asked to revise and update the draft resolution contained in that Annex before its fina]  adoption in plenary session.
31.26 If, after deciding on the date of entry into force of that amendment, the General Conference  were to adopt the amendment itself, it would then have to decide whether a decision had also to be  taken on the draft amendment submitted by Mexico, possibly modified by the subamendment of Italy,  which would be for the period preceding the entry into force of the amendment submitted by Sweden;  in other words, if the Swedish amendment were adopted, the General Conference would have to de-  cide whether it was worth while to consider the amendment submitted by Mexico and the subamend-  ment submitted by Italy, since these would only be in effect until such time as the Swedish amend-  ment became operative. Should it decide in favour of this course, and since subamendments have  to be put to the vote before amendments, it would be necessary to take a vote first on the subamend-  ment submitted by Italy, and then on the subamendment submitted by Mexico, with or without the  Italian subamendment depending, of course, on whether it had been accepted or rejected. If, on the  other hand, the amendment submitted by Sweden were rejected, votes would then have to be taken  in the same order on the proposals submitted by Mexico and Italy, and if that amendment were  adopted, it would then enter into effect and force immediately and finally.
31.27 This procedure for voting on the draft amendments and subamendments could be applied on  the basis of the draft resolutions annexed to the various documents. The first step would be to vote  on the draft resolution contained in Annex I to the First Report of the Legal Committee and, if nec-  essary, on the draft amendment contained in Annex II to the First Report of the Legal Committee.  The second step would be to take a vote on the draft amendment contained in Annex II to docu-  ment 19 C/16, after having first settled the preliminary question mentioned in paragraph 11 of the  Legal Committee's Second Report. Nevertheless, before the General Conference takes a final de-  cision on this proposal it should, on the basis of the Legal Committee's Report, make the draft  changes necessary to incorporate the constitutional amendments introduced since the seventeenth  session of the General Conference. Moreover, as the draft resolution had been prepared with a  view to its adoption at the seventeenth session, other changes would have to be made to it before it  was put to a vote here, so as to take into account the General Conference's decisions to postpone any  decision on the proposal first to the eighteenth session and then to the present nineteenth session.  Lastly, a vote would be taken, if necessary, on the two proposals annexed to this report, in the re-  verse order of their presentation, the draft contained in Annex II (Italy) being put to the vote, asl  have stated, before the draft contained in Annex I (Mexico).
31.28 In conclusion, I would remind the General Conference that resolutions entailing amendments  to the Constitution must be adopted by the General Conference by a two-thirds majority. And that,  Mr. President, concludes my presentation of the First and Second Reports of the Legal Committee  contained in documents 19 C/117 and 19 C/118 respectively. Thank you, Mr. President.
32. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Legal Committee for his lucid presentation of his report. I now  give the floor to the Legal Adviser to introduce document 19 C/16.
33.1 M. LUSSIER (Conseiller juridique). -  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président, Les délégués à la présente session de la Confé-  rence générale se souviendront qu'à sa dix-septième session en 1972, la Conférence avait été  saisie de propositions de la Suède tendant à modifier l'Acte constitutif et le Règlement intérieur  de la Conférence générale.
33.2 Aux termes de ce projet d'amendement, dont vous trouverez le texte à l'Annexe II du  document 19 C/16, le Conseil exécutif ne serait plus composé comme actuellement de membres  élus parmi les délégués nommés par les Etats membres, chacun représentant le gouvernement  de l'Etat dont il est le ressortissant, mais d'Etats membres élus en tant que tels par la Conférence  générale.
33. 3 Des explications détaillées sur ce projet d'amendement avaient été présentées à la Conférence  générale, lors de sa dix-septième session, dans le document 17 C/83. La Conférence avait alors  chargé son Comité juridique et sa Commission administrative, d'étudier respectivement les  aspects juridiques et les aspects administratifs de la proposition de la Suède, Je me permets de  signaler aux délégués qu'ils trouveront le texte intégral du rapport du Comité juridique sur la  question dans le volume 2 des Actes de la dix-septième session de la Conférence générale intitulé  "Rapports'. Un certain nombre d'extraits de ce rapport, qui reste d'actualité, sont reproduits  dans l'historique qui figure au début du document 19 C/16. Après un débat approfondi sur les deux  rapports, la Conférence générale, sur proposition de la délégation suédoise, avait décidé de  reporter à sa dix-huitième session toute décision concernant l'amendement proposé, tout en invi-  tant le Conseil exécutif à étudier la question à fond et à lui faire rapport à sa dix-huitième session.
33.4 Le Conseil exécutif a soumis son rapport à la Conférence générale, lors de sa dix-huitième  session, dans le document 18 C/18. Après avoir examiné ce rapport en séance plénière, la Confé-  rence générale, considérant qu'il convenait de poursuivre l'étude de la question a décidé de  remettre à sa dix-neuvième session toute décision sur celle-ci et a invité le Directeur général à
74   consulter les Etats membres sur les modifications proposées et a présenter un rapport a la dix-  neuvieme session sur les résultats de la consultation.
33.5 En exécution de cette décision, le Directeur général a procédé a la consultation requise, dont  les résultats sont consignés dans 1'Annexe I au document 19 C/16, ainsi que dans les documents
19 C/16 Add. 1 et 2. Les réponses de 31 Etats membres au total sont reproduites dans ces docu-  ments ; une réponse d'un autre Etat membre, le Brésil, appuyant les propositions de la Suède, a  été reçue trop tard pour être reproduite. Tel est done, Monsieur le Président, l'état de la  question.
33.6 Je voudrais maintenant attirer l'attention des délégués sur l'Annexe II au document 19 C/16,  qui contient le texte du projet de résolution que le Comité juridique avait transmis à la Conférence  générale à sa dix-septième session. Avant que ce texte puisse être éventuellement mis aux voix,  deux décisions préalables de la Conférence générale seraient requises.
33.7 La première est de caractère purement formel : il s'agirait de mettre à jour, comme l'a  indiqué le Comité juridique dans son rapport, le projet de résolution figurant dans l'Annexe II au  document 19 C/16, pour tenir compte du fait que la Conférence générale a pris à sa dix-septième  session certaines décisions d'ordre constitutionnel concernant le nombre des membres du Conseil  exécutif et la durée de leur mandat, et aussi du fait qu'elle est appelée à la présente session à se  prononcer sur une nouvelle augmentation éventuelle de ce nombre. Le projet de résolution figurant  en annexe au document 19 C/16 devrait donc être modifié en conséquence. Vous avez entendu la  présentation que vous a faite de cette question le président du Comité juridique dont le rapport  figure dans le document 19 C/117. Il conviendrait, comme le recommande le Comité juridique,  que la Conférence générale se prononce en premier lieu sur le nombre des membres du Conseil  exécutif et sur la répartition entre les groupes des sièges additionnels, de manière à ce que ce  nombre puisse, en vertu de l'article 105 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence, être, le cas  échéant, mentionné dans le projet d'amendement présenté par la Suède.
33.8 La deuxième décision que devrait prendre au préalable la Conférence générale serait la  suivante : quatre années se sont écoulées depuis la dix-septième session, et il conviendrait  d'apporter certaines modifications aux références aux sessions de la Conférence qui figurent dans  le projet de résolution,
33. 9 Pour faciliter cette mise à jour, les modifications requises à ce double titre ont été signalées  par des notes en bas de page dans le texte du projet de résolution figurant en annexe au document
19 C/16. Cette mise à jour pourrait être faite par le Comité juridique, conformément à la recom-  mandation formulée par celui-ci dans son deuxième rapport. Le Comité recommande également  à la plénière de se prononcer d'abord à la majorité des deux tiers sur le principe du projet d'amen-  dement suédois et, si celui-ci est approuvé, de renvoyer alors au Comité juridique le projet de  résolution pour qu'il procède à sa mise à jour, avant que la Conférence ne l'adopte d'une manière  définitive.
33.10 Outre ces décisions de caractère rédactionnel ou formel, la Conférence générale devra  prendre une autre décision avant de se prononcer sur la proposition suédoise. Comme l'a indiqué  le président du Comité juridique, la Conférence générale devra choisir entre les deux variantes  proposées en ce qui concerne les trois derniers paragraphes du projet de résolution figurant à  l'Annexe II au document 19 C/16. Si les membres de la Conférence veulent bien se reporter à la  dernière page de ce document, ils constateront que ces variantes figurent dans deux colonnes.  Deux possibilités sont proposées quant à l'entrée en vigueur éventuelle des projets d'amendements  à l'Acte constitutif, ce qui implique de la part de la Conférence un choix préalable au vote sur ces  projets d'amendements proprement dits. Les raisons de cette alternative sont indiquées dans un  extrait du rapport du Comité juridique reproduit au paragraphe 14 de l'historique figurant au début  du document 19 C/16. Le Comité juridique n'ayant pu trancher lors de la dix-septième session de  la Conférence générale la question de savoir si l'adoption du projet d'amendement suédois entraï-  nerait des obligations nouvelles pour les Etats membres, c'est à la Conférence générale qu'il  appartient maintenant de le déterminer. Si la Conférence générale estime que le projet d'amende-  ment n'entraîine pas d'obligations nouvelles pour les Etats membres, le projet d'amendement  suédois, une fois adopté à la majorité des deux tiers des membres présents et votants, entrera  en vigueur immédiatement avant les élections qui auront lieu au cours de la vingtième session de  la Conférence générale, en 1978.
33.11 Je voudrais donner quelques explications sur les raisons de ce délai. En effet, les élections  qui se tiendront au cours de la présente session, c'est-à-dire dans quelques jours, ne peuvent se  dérouler que conformément au régime et à la procédure actuellement en vigueur, car c'est sur  cette base que les candidatures ont été proposées. Ce n'est donc que lors des prochaines élections,  au cours de la vingtième session de la Conférence générale, que le nouveau régime devrait - au  plus tôt - entrer en vigueur. Dans l'intervalle, le Conseil exécutif, comme l'indique le para-  graphe 4 du projet de résolution, réviserait la procédure de présentation des candidatures pour  cette prochaine élection, Le régime actuel demeurerait donc nécessairement en vigueur au moins  pendant les deux années à venir. En ce qui concerne les membres du Conseil qui seront élus à la  présente session pour une période de quatre ans, le projet de résolution contient une clause tran-  sitoire qui prévoit le changement de statut de ces membres lorsque l'amendement suédois prendrait  effet. Ainsi, il n'y aurait à tout moment qu'une seule catégorie de membres du Conseil exécutif,
22 33.12 En revanche, Monsieur le Président, si la Conférence générale arrive a la conclusion que  l'adoption du projet d'amendement suédois entraMnerait des obligations nouvelles pour les Etats  membres, il faudrait qu'une fois adopté, il soit, conformément au paragraphe 1 de l'article XIII  de l'Acte constitutif, accepté par les deux tiers des Etats membres de l'Organisation pour prendre  effet. Il n'entrerait donc en vigueur, dans cette hypothèse, qu'immédiatement avant les élections  qui se tiendraient au cours de la première session ordinaire de la Conférence générale suivant le  dépôt du nombre d'acceptations requis par l'article XIII de l'Acte constitutif, c'est-à-dire à une  date qui n'est pas actuellement prévisible. Le Comité juridique a indiqué dans son rapport que la  Conférence générale devrait prendre une décision sur cette question préalable à la majorité simple,
33.13 Lorsqu'elle se sera prononcée sur ces diverses questions et sur le projet d'amendement  suédois lui-même, la Conférence générale, comme le recommande le Comité juridique dans son  deuxième rapport, devra alors se pencher sur les propositions d'amendement à l'Acte constitutif  présentées par le Mexique et sur le sous-amendement à cette proposition présenté par l'Italie,  Ces deux propositions qui font l'objet du second rapport du Comité juridique ont, comme l'a indiqué  le président du Comité, toutes deux trait au remplacement d'un membre du Conseil exécutif en  cours de mandat pour des raisons tenant à des circonstances exceptionnelles. Ces propositions  offrent d'autres possibilités que le projet d'amendement suédois car, ainsi que l'explique le Comité  juridique dans son second rapport, le projet d'amendement suédois, d'une part, et les proposi-  tions mexicaine et italienne, d'autre part, s'excluent mutuellement.
33.14 En bref, par conséquent, Monsieur le Président, le Comité juridique vous propose, comme  l'a rappelé son Président, de trancher d'abord la question du nombre des membres du Conseil  exécutif, de vous prononcer ensuite sur la question de savoir si l'amendement suédois entraine ou  non des obligations nouvelles pour les Etats membres et, enfin, de vous prononcer sur le principe  du projet d'amendement suédois lui-même, modifié pour tenir compte du nombre de membres  finalement retenu pour le Conseil et incorporant la variante qui aura été choisie pour les para-  graphes 3, 4 et 5 du projet de résolution. Si le projet d'amendement suédois était adopté, le  Comité juridique a recommandé à la plénière de le lui renvoyer pour qu'il le mette à jour, étant  entendu que ce texte reviendrait ultérieurement devant la plénière pour adoption définitive. Selon  la décision qui aura été prise par la Conférence sur le projet d'amendement suédois, la Conférence  déterminera alors sa position quant à la procédure à suivre concernant les autres propositions de  modification de l'Acte constitutif dont elle est saisie. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
34.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Legal Committee and the Legal Adviser for their clear explanations  and I now open the debate on all the constitutional issues before us. I shall give the floor firsttothe  authors of the various proposals in the order in which the main proposals have been submitted, al-  though this will not be the order in which the proposals will be put to the vote at the end of the debate,  I therefore call first on the Swedish delegation and then on the delegations of Mexico and Italy and  finally on the delegations of Burma and Rwanda. As you have heard from the Chairman of the Legal  Committee, Peru has withdrawn the proposal contained in document 19 C/117; item 19 is therefore  not open for discussion.
34.2 I call on the delegate of Sweden,
35.1 Mr. BERGSTRAND (Sweden):  Mr. President, in this debate we are faced with two different questions. The first is re-  flected in the proposals from Burma and Rwanda to increase the number of members of the Execu-  tive Board. The second refers to the status of the members of the Board.
35.2 As to the first question, let me only state that we recognize the present imbalance in the dis-  tribution of members of the Board between the five electoral groups. Africa, Asia and Latin  America are clearly underrepresented. This imbalance is further accentuated by the admission  of new Member States. It could be corrected either by redistribution of the present 40 seats or by  adding new seats. It is perhaps regrettable that the first of these two possibilities has not been  discussed, as we are now only faced with proposals to enlarge the membership of the Board. We  are nevertheless prepared to vote in favour of these proposals.
35.3 Mr. President, over the last four years the Swedish proposal to amend Article V of the Con-  stitution of Unesco has been discussed in different connections. But the roots of the proposal date  much further back. Let me start by giving this background. The members of Unesco's Executive  Board originally sat in their personal capacity. They were not bound by instructions from their  governments. Experience showed however that efficient functioning of the Organization made it  necessary to associate the work of the Board more closely with the policy-making of Member States.  In 1954 the Constitutional provisions governing the composition of the Board were therefore amended  in order to make the members of the Board representatives also of their respective governments.  An ambiguity remained, however, as to the degree of this relationship between the Board members  and their governments. Since 1954 Unesco's programme has expanded in scope and complexity at  the same time as the number of Member States has increased considerably. This has resulted in  a substantial increase in the workload and responsibilities of the Board as compared with the situa-  tion in 1954. In addition, the introduction of medium-term planning of the Organization's programme  has led to even more responsibility being placed on the Board. As a consequence, Unesco's impor-  tance for its Member States has further increased. It is no longer a Western-based intellectual or-
76   ganization but has become a truly universal organization, more and more involved in the problems  of the Third World. The agenda of this session of the General Conference bears ample evidence of  this development. The problems that confront our Organization today necessitate the directinvolve-  ment of the member governments not only every second year when the General Conference is in ses-  sion but also in the year in between.
35.4 In view of these circumstances, we feel that the time has come to bring the reform which was  commenced in 1954 to its logical conclusion, that is to enable the General Conference to elect Mem-  ber States as members of the Board instead of individuals. In the opinion of the Swedish Govern-  ment an amendment of the Constitution in this direction would first of all be a recognition of a situa-  tion which already exists de facto. The nationality of the candidates clearly plays the decisive role  at elections to the Board as they are presently carried out. Secondly, it would be an adequate re-  flection of the heavier responsibilities which have been and will be placed on the Board, thereby  accentuating its role as the representative of Member States and the General Conference between  sessions. Thirdly, it would make Member States take a closer interest in the Board, to the general  advantage of Unesco's work and programme as a whole. And, finally, it would improve the con-  gruity and continuity in the line of decisions taken by the Executive Board on the one hand and by  the General Conference on the other.
35.5 You will find the formal Swedish proposal in Annex II to document 19 C/16, which is the re-  port of the Director-General on the results of the consultations concerning the proposed draft  amendment by Sweden. In order to clarify some points which have been raised in the discussions  since 1972 the Swedish delegation would like to state the following.
35.6 The Swedish Government does not wish to change the present situation in which the Organiza-  tion benefits from the guidance of persons of eminent standing in Unesco's fields of competence. It  is therefore stated in the Swedish proposal that the provisions governing the qualifications of the  persons who shall represent the Member States on the Board be retained.
35.7 The Swedish Government does not propose to change the system of continuity presently ob-  served in the membership of the Executive Board. One aspect of this need for continuity is found  in the proposed Article V, À, 4, stating that members shall be eligible for re-election. Another  aspect of the need for continuity is the congruity between the decisions of the Board and of the  General Conference, and I have already touched upon that. Finally, the need for continuity within  each electoral period would surely be felt by each Member State which would then, in its own inter-  est, see to it that, generally, the same person represents it on the Board. The Swedish delegation  would, however, welcome the adoption of an explanatory declaration by the General Conference urg-  ing Member States to observe this need for continuity in their selection of representatives to the  Executive Board.
35.8 The Constitution of Unesco makes it perfectly clear that the proposed amendment, if accepted,  does not lead to any increased financial burdens on governments represented on the Board and con-  sequently would not involve new obligations for the Member States.
35.9 The Swedish amendment aims at strengthening the position of the Executive Board as the par-  liamentary body representing the Member States between the sessions of the General Conference.  The direct link between the individual Board member and his or her government should therefore  be clearly spelled out. Our proposal was originally made in 1972. It was then referred to the  Executive Board for consideration. The eighteenth session of the General Conference decided to  ask the Director-General to consult the Member States on the matter. We feel that the time has  now come at this session of the Conference to take a final decision on our proposal. We consider  that developments since 1972 have further stressed the reasons for adopting the proposed amend-  ments. Thank you, Mr. President.
36. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Sweden and I now call on the delegate from Mexico to speak on docu-  ment 19 C/32.
(37.1) Mr. NAVARRETE (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you Mr. President. Under the present system, in accordance with Article V of the Constitu-  tion, members of the Executive Board have three representative functions: first, as persons competent  in the arts, the humanities, the sciences, education and the diffusion of ideas, Members of the Executive  Board must also be qualified by their experience and capacity to fulfil the administrative and executive  duties of the Board, Secondly, they shall represent their governments, and thirdly, they shall exercise  the powers delegated to them by the General Conference on behalf of the Conference as a whole.
(37.2) The amendment proposed by Mexico is not intended to change the present system. It is therefore  not opposed to the threefold representative function of members of the Executive Board. The Mexican  amendment refers to one aspect of this threefold representation, namely, the fact that members repre-  sent their respective governments. Naturally, each representative must enjoy the confidence of his  government, During the discussions at the eighteenth session of the General Conference of Unesco, when  the Swedish proposal was being examined, several delegations drew attention to the need to provide for  the replacement of a representative when he no longer enjoyed the confidence of his government, The  amendment proposed by Mexico covers this point, taking into account the fact that a number of such cases,  though not very many, have arisen in the past and could at any moment occur again. At the same time,  it specifies the circumstances in which the government of a representative on the Executive Board may  proceed to replace him, even if he does not tender his resignation. The special circumstances which jus-  tify the replacement of a representative on the Executive Board arise when a change in the political system  or an institutional change occurs in the represented State.
(37.3) The Mexican proposal is presented in such a way as not to interfere with the harmony that should  always exist among the three aspects which make up the representative function of members of the Execu-  tive Board, as under the present system.
(37.4) The amendment submitted by Italy proposes that, when exceptional circumstances arise, which, in  the considered opinion of the represented State, make it indispensable for its representative to be replaced,  the State in question shall inform the Executive Board, describing the nature of these circumstances. Even  if the member of the Board does not tender his resignation, measures shall be taken in accordance with  the provisions of subparagraph (a) above. This amendment, Mr. President, has a serious drawback: it  obliges the State concerned to provide information on an attitude or decision which it alone is competent  to adopt. The delegation of Mexico considers that, in addition to being an infringement of sovereignty, it  is improper to require a State to release information which it might wish, for various reasons, to remain  confidential. Moreover, the Italian amendment would give rise to a state of conflict within the Executive  Board, since, if the Board were provided by the represented State with information justifying the replace-  ment of its representative, in the same way the latter might, when the occasion arose, submit his own  observations to the Board,
(37.5) The Mexican proposal is more realistic and endeavours to avoid the abuses which, on occasion,  the governments of Member States might commit. In the light of the comments that have been made and  considering that there is a real risk that, owing to the personal capacity of representatives on the Execu-  tive Board, a case may arise in which an individual retains his seat although he does not represent, or  even opposes, the policy of the State which originally appointed him, we consider that the Mexican propor  sal is a good compromise between the Swedish proposal and the Italian amendment, and that for this  reason it should be approved, Thank you, Mr. President.
38. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Mexico and I call on the delegate of Italy.
39.1 M. CIRAOLO (Italie). -  Monsieur le Président, si vous le permettez, je parlerai de deux questions, en commençant  par celle de l'augementation des membres du Conseil exécutif qui nous est proposée, La déléga-  tion italienne a toujours été quelque peu préoccupée de voir augmenter le nombre des membres du  Conseil de façon trop considérable, car cela risque de rendre plus difficile le fonctionnement du  Conseil. Mais, étant donné les raisons avancées à l'appui de ce projet d'amendement, nous sommes  d'accord pour porter le nombre des membres du Conseil à 45.
39.2 J'en viens maintenant, Monsieur le Président, au sous-amendement présenté par l'Italie, et  donc aux projets d'amendements de la Suède et du Mexique. Lors du débat auquel a donné lieu, au  cours de la dix-septième session de la Conférence générale, le projet d'amendement proposé par  la Suède, la délégation italienne avait exprimé un avis très nettement contraire à son adoption, Le  temps qui s'est écoulé depuis lors, et nos réflexions ultérieures sur la portée du projet et sur les  conséquences que son adoption pourrait avoir pour l'Organisation, n'ont pas modifié l'attitude de  mon gouvernement.
39.3 La délégation italienne est toujours d'avis que cet amendement apporterait à l'Acte constitutif  des modifications profondes qui, loin d'améliorer le système actuel, affecteraient aussi bien le  mécanisme du choix des membres du Conseil que le fonctionnement du Conseil lui-même. Je ne  pense pas qu'il soit nécessaire d'insister sur le fait que l'élection des membres du Conseil selon  le système actuel a le mérite de permettre aux Etats de présenter des personnalités éminentes en  mesure de s'imposer au choix de la Conférence : cela offre la meilleure garantie que siègent au  Conseil exécutif des personnes ayant l'expérience et la compétence nécessaires pour remplir les  fonctions qui incombent à cet organe. Quant à l'effet que l'adoption de cet amendement aurait sur  le fonctionnement du Conseil exécutif, il est évident que les représentants des Etats élus ne  seraient responsables que vis-à-vis de l'Etat qu'ils représentent, alors qu'à l'heure actuelle les  membres du Conseil sont aussi, et en premier lieu, responsables devant la Conférence générale,  ce qui les engage à faire prévaloir l'intérêt commun sur les intérêts particuliers. Qui plus est, la  possibilité offerte aux gouvernements des Etats membres de changer quand bon leur semblerait  leurs représentants compromettrait la continuité de la présence d'un groupe de personnes expéri-  mentées au sein du Conseil, continuité dont on a toujours constaté l'intérêt et qui a déjà été  ramenée à la limite de l'efficacité par la réduction de la durée du mandat des membres du Conseil.
39.4 Ce sont là des effets négatifs pour l'Organisation, qui ne pourraient être tolérés que pour des  raisons graves nécessitant la modification de l'Acte constitutif. Or nous ne croyons pas que ce soit  le cas, tandis que nous discernons d'autres dangers que pourrait faire surgir une telle décision.  Il est certainement souhaitable que la participation des Etats soit toujours renforcée et améliorée  au sein de l'Unesco ; c'est d'ailleurs ce qui s'est produit progressivement au cours des trente  années de la vie de l'Unesco, comme le prouve, notamment, le renforcement de la représentation  permanente des Etats au sein de l'Organisation. Il convient de continuer dans cette voie. Mais ce  serait à notre avis une erreur que de poursuivre ce but par une modification de la nature du Con-  seil exécutif. Tel qu'il est, cet organe essentiel à la vie de l'Organisation répond à un souci qui  est à la base de la structure de l'Unesco, telle qu'elle a été conçue par ses fondateurs :  organisation intergouvernementale, certes, appartenant aux Etats, mais en même temps organi-  sation ouverte à la participation des hommes et des femmes du monde de la culture. Cette parti -  cipation trouve d'ailleurs sa consécration dans trois articles de l'Acte constitutif : l'article V qui  détermine la composition du Conseil exécutif, l'article VII qui traite des commissions nationales,  dont la Conférence ces jours-ci a réaffirmé encore une fois la nécessité, et l'article XI qui associe  à l'Organisation des organisations non gouvernementales.
39.5 Est-il nécessaire d'insister sur cette caractéristique propre à l'Unesco, qui fait qu'elle se  distingue, par sa nature et par son fonctionnement, de la plupart des autres institutions spécia-  lisées, et faut-il rappeler un fait que nous avons pu constater récemment, à savoir le trouble  créé dans les milieux de la culture par la crainte que l'Unesco, sous la pression d'intérêts poli-  tiques, ne risque de s'éloigner, en quelque sorte, de l'idéal qu'elle avait suscité dans l'esprit des  hommes ? Le moment actuel nous paraît particulièrement mal choisi, Monsieur le Président,  pour lancer l'Organisation dans une telle réforme de l'organe qui contrôle son activité.
39.6 Il faut toutefois reconnaître que l'initiative de la Suède a eu le mérite de souligner un défaut  de l'actuelle rédaction de l'article V, selon lequel les membres du Conseil ne peuvent être rem-  placés qu'en cas de décès ou de démission. Puisqu'ils représentent aussi le gouvernement de  l'Etat dont ils sont ressortissants, il est évidemment nécessaire que ce gouvernement leur garde  sa confiance.
39. 7 La délégation italienne appuie donc pleinement la proposition présentée par le Mexique, qui  améliore l'article V actuel par une formule qui permet le remplacement des membres du Conseil  dans des circonstances exceptionnelles qui, de l'avis de l'Etat représenté, rendent indispensable  ce remplacement. Cette formule répond en effet à l'exigence que les membres élus par la Confé-  rence générale gardent la double qualité de représentants de la Conférence et de représentants du  gouvernement de l'Etat dont ils sont ressortissants, et elle a le mérite de souligner le caractère  exceptionnel d'un tel remplacement en cours de mandat.
22 39. 8 Pourquoi l'Italie a-t-elle donc présenté un sous-amendement à ce projet d'amendement ?  C'est qu'il lui a semblé opportun de préciser que la décision dont il s'agit doit être portée en  bonne et due forme à la connaissance du Conseil par l'Etat intéressé. Même si cela est peut-être  sous-entendu, il est bon, dans un texte statutaire et pour une question d'une telle importance, que  la procédure soit clairement indiquée.
39.9 Toutefois, puisque des réserves ont été formulées à propos de la rédaction de la proposition  italienne, qui a paru à certaines délégations - et en premier lieu à la délégation du Mexique - de  nature à soulever des difficultés du point de vue de la souveraineté des Etats, la délégation italienne  dans le souci d'éliminer tout doute à ce sujet, retire son projet d'amendement et donne son plein  appui au projet d'amendement présenté par le Mexique. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
40.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Italy. I would request the speakers of the delegations of Burma and  Rwanda, when introducing their proposals, to increase membership of the Board as contained in  documents 19 C/ 70 and 19 C/105, to indicate how they would allocate the proposed additional seats  among the electoral groups, so as to enable the General Conference to fill in the blanks in the draft  resolutions contained in Annexes I and II of document 19 C/117. Other speakers are also invitedto  comment on these suggestions. I hope that sufficient consultations have taken place between dele-  gations for this point to be settled quickly.
40.2 I now give the floor to the delegate of Burma.
41.1 Mr. U THET TUN (Burma):  Mr. President, on behalf of the Asian Group of Member States I have the honour to introduce  a draft amendment to Article V, paragraph 1 of the Constitution, as contained in document 19 C/70,  This draft amendment calls for the expansion of the membership of the Executive Board from forty  to forty-four in order to facilitate a more equitable representation of the developing world on the  executive body of this very important Specialized Agency of the United Nations, dedicated to the en-  hancement of the educational, scientific and cultural level of the developing countries.
41.2 May I illustrate our case briefly with a few figures. The ratio of the number of seatsin each  electoral group on the Executive Board to the number of its Member States, including new Member  States, will be 1:2. 8 for Group I, 1:2.75 for Group II, 1:3.71 for Group III, 1:3.67 for Group IV  and 1:4. 08 for Group V. If we subdivide Group V into Arab States and African States their respec-  tive ratios will be 1:4 and 1:4.125. If the additional four seats arising out of our proposed amend-  ment are each distributed among Group III, Group IV, Arab States and African States in Group V,  their respective ratios will improve to 1:3.25 for Group III, 1:3.14 for Group IV and 1:3. 33 for the  Arab States. But for the African States which will receive three new members, the ratio will still  be as high as 1:3.89. It is for this reason that we are ready to accept the draft amendment to our  own amendment proposed by the delegation of Rwanda on behalf of the African group. If the Rwanda  amendment is carried, the ratio of representation for the African States will be improved to 1:3.5.  Mr. President, Article 5, paragraph2, of the Constitution states that election of the members of the  Executive Board shall have regard to the diversity of cultures and a balanced geographical distribu-  tion. Since the developing world, however underdeveloped in other respects, contains by universal  acknowledgement a great diversity of cultures, and since its ratio of representation in the Executive  Board, even after its proposed enhancement, will still be lower than that of Group I and Group II, we  fervently hope that Member States of Groups I and II will consider our amendment with sympathy and  understanding.
41.3 It may be argued that the expansion of the Executive Board will detract from its efficiency.  We recognize that forty-five is a larger number than forty and we require a larger table, but we  do not expect the meeting of the Board, which normally lasts three hours, to take any longer, be-  cause in any case, the meeting has to break up for lunch or for cocktails. It may of course mean  that old members of the Board will have to talk less, but then, look at the gain in efficiency from  the greater representativeness of the Board. A decision made by a more representative Board has  a greater chance of acceptance by a larger body, such as the General Conference, thus saving a lot  of time and a lot of energy in further debate. Of course, our amendments will have administrative  and financial implications, but, as you will see in the report by the Administrative Commission,  transforming the oval table in Room IX and modifying the sound installations will cost $60, 000,  whether it is for four additional members or for five additional members, and this is a once and  for all expenditure. Cost for travel and per diem for five additional members will be $75, 000 a  year, equivalent to the remuneration of two P-4, step 5, staff members at Headquarters with one  spouse and two children each. Total expenditure on the forty-member Executive Board is only
1.69 per cent of the total budget of Unesco, and its proposed expansion to forty-five members will  bring it to 1.76 per cent, an increase of 0.07 per cent. This should be set against the greater  equity in the representation of the developing countries on the Executive Board, which is the per-  manent regent of the General Conference, which meets only once in two years.
41.4 I would therefore propose formally that the General Conference unanimously adopt our amend-  ment, as further amended by Rwanda, namely to increase the membership of the Executive Board  from forty to forty-five, the additional five seats to be distributed one each for Groups III or IV,  and three for Group V, it being understood that within this group one seat would go to the Arab  States and two to the African States. Thank you, Mr. President.
42. The PRESIDENT: 22  Thank you very much. I call on the delegate of Rwanda.
43.1 M, MUTEMBEREZI (Rwanda). -  Monsieur le Président, je me réjouis de la déclaration que vient de faire l'honorable délégué  de la République socialiste de l'Union birmane, S. Exc. U Thet Tun, au sujet du projet d'amende-  ment de son pays à l'article V, paragraphe 1, de l'Acte constitutif. Je le remercie d'avoir bien  voulu accepter que la modification présentée par le Rwanda à son projet d'amendement soit consi-  dérée comme le seul projet d'amendement à prendre en considération. Je me dois de rappeler que  ce projet d'amendement a reçu l'agrément du groupe africain ; d'autre part, le groupe asiatique  a indiqué à ma délégation son soutien total au projet d'amendement que je vous présente. J'exprime  mon sentiment de gratitude à l'endroit de ces groupes. Les divers contacts que nous avons pris  avec les membres du groupe latino-américain nous ont convaincus que leur soutien nous était acquis  à l'avance. Je me réjouis également de leur concours, qui se matérialisera au cours des diverses  interventions qui porteront sur ce projet d'amendement. D'autre part, les autres groupes sont con-  vaincus de la nécessité de relever le nombre des sièges au sein du Conseil exécutif en faveur des  groupes sous représentés, à savoir les groupes III, IV et V.
43.2 La répartition géographique actuelle au sein du Conseil exécutif se présente de la façon sui-  vante : le groupe I compte 27 Etats membres et dispose de 7 sièges, soit un quota de représenta-  tion de 1 membre pour 2,7 Etats ; le groupe II compte 11 Etats membres et dispose de 4 sièges,  soit un rapport de représentation de 1 pour 2,75 Etats ; le groupe III compte 24 Etats membres  et dispose de 7 sièges, soit un quota de représentation de 1 pour 3, 43 Etats ; le groupe IV compte
21 Etats membres et dispose de 6 sièges, avec un quota de représentation de 1 pour 3, 5 Etats ;  enfin, le groupe V compte 50 Etats membres et dispose de 13 sièges, soit un quota de représen-  tation de 1 pour 3,84 Etats. Ces données ne tiennent pas compte de l'admission au sein de l'Orga-  nisation de nouveaux Etats qui ont accédé récemment à la souveraineté internationale, c'est-à-dire  que la sous-représentation du groupe V serait encore plus accentuée si l'on tenait compte de ces  nouveaux Etats membres, qui ont également le droit d'être représentés au sein du Conseil exécutif,  Il ressort de cette analyse arithmétique que les groupes III, IV et V sont sous représentés au  Conseil.
43.3 Monsieur le Président, le projet d'amendement qui est présenté à la Conférence générale vise  à corriger cette anomalie. Son adoption contribuerait à équilibrer la représentation géographique  au sein du Conseil exécutif, comme le souhaitent tous les Etats membres. Le projet d'amendement  que ma délégation présente se propose de répartir les sièges additionnels de la façon suivante :  un siège pour le groupe III, dont la représentation serait portée de 7 à 8 membres ; un siège pour  le groupe IV, dont la représentation serait portée de 6 à 7 membres ; 3 sièges pour le groupe V,  dont la représentation serait portée de 13 à 16 membres, ce dernier étant divisé en un sous-  groupe des Etats arabes et un sous-groupe des Etats africains au sud du Sahara. Le sous-groupe  des Etats arabes disposerait alors d'un siège additionnel et le sous-groupe des Etats africains au  sud du Sahara de deux sièges additionnels.
43.4 Nous demandons donc, Monsieur le Président, que la Conférence générale se prononce favo-  rablement sur ce projet d'amendement, qui renforcerait la représentativité du Conseil exécutif  de notre Organisation. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
44.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. I now invite speakers to address themselves to all the issues before the  Conference, except the now-withdrawn amendment by Italy, so as to avoid intervening more than  once in the debate on matters of substance. I must also draw the attention of the delegations to the  fact that no new proposals of substance can, at this stage, be made regarding the modification of  the Constitution, since all time limits for the submission of such proposals have long expired.
44.2 I now call on the delegate of Iraq.
3, ds wo nd Be RL UL RR Quel, dy Less Ped BD LE CR Er Dien 55 pl ob DRI  stadzailio chan lal alin deur ollie dipl Sis ISL cep Ball Lille rem Lall stall  posal) Vin Jo sp Bl dial) in iy lari lon ep Lalla) pad al Sas,
89 50 dame du YN Au SI] 4259 ll od) ua, nd 1 oy Te À « aJluell ais ce LBs ol — So)y  eh ae réal ol OUT (ghost Bly 886 Toad | Cpe 5m) a Lad Vici Led lan Pol a ls 5 J  SB 29: «CBs Tin Sls) lo Lula 5) labs I  date I LN mana Les YE Besa Mater le Lala Svat 1 bi cast  my Belial] Bo Lad le Lulu! 5e blogue) | gp 5 lSad loin 6 Les hs LE Les (of pumas « La Il  BY Ye ls VAS Van 65 5 SAI pula bys aligns (Ba Luis al page Let gle Bisbal)
22 lain LE “pslys> Jen po gests oY 0 ly of oe Yu € gala le lap, poll 8.5 DLL 30H)
2 Us, Gers Tasty J aa Lys. ls! SE Lb «  Sabizllulanal asl Jus duly oun, Lge)  pue lis plos sul ‘ bop € ab J>-log GEL 01° Las Jj al "Las Das duly hls  €
3—5M5 5x5 05 Be ad) Bogen | 5 Ts, os + held} Jy dl Je) ls 51 Lans « Judea) Cos Coa)
(45.1) Mr. AL BASSAM (Iraq) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you Mr. President. First of all, I would like to comment on the Swedish draft amendment to  Article V of the Constitution. I wish to express our thanks and appreciation to the Swedish Government  for having continued to study and defend this issue since the seventeenth session of the General Confer-  ence, We thank the Executive Board for the study it carried out on the same topic. We also wish to  thank the Director-General for his consultations on that study and we are appreciative of the report sub-  mitted by the Legal Commission on this question,
(45.2) Our position on this issue has been expressed by Mr. Mohammed Mahjoub, head of the Iraqi  delegation and Minister of Education of Iraq, in his address during the general policy debate. We endorse  and support the Swedish proposal for the reasons which I shall now state.
(45.3) Firstly, Unesco, like the United Nations and its other Specialized Agencies, is an intergovernmen-  tal organization. The governments of its Member States are responsible for the Organization's general  policies and for approving its programmes. They contribute to its financing. The Executive Board is the  organ that supervises the work of the Organization during the period between sessions of the General Con-  ference, and thus it has to express clearly governmental views. Consequently, the Board is made up of  Member States, which choose from among their nationals those who are efficient and competent enough to  fulfil the tasks assumed by the Board. Board members are not individuals representing their respective  governments. I believe that this principle is applied in many United Nations organs and Specialized  Agencies. In addition to the Security Council, which has a special status, ECOSOC, the Governing Coun-  cil of UNDP, ILO and WHO, also adopt this principle,
(45.4) Secondly, the historical evolution of this Organization has made this system necessary. In the  early years of Unesco, the Executive Board was made up of personalities selected by the General Confer-  ence on account of their high qualifications and prominent standing. They were not nominated by their  respective governments. This might be acceptable at a time when the Organization was in need of inter-  nationally renowned and highly talented persons to lay down and develop the theoretical bases of the  Organization and to define its conceptual dimensions and perspectives. This situation changed in 1954,  Membership of the Board became conditional on nomination by the respective governments. Governments’  links with the Board become closer with the adoption, in 1968, of election on the basis on regional groups.  Thus, in fact governments, rather than individuals, were chosen by each group. Both these developments  were in harmony with the evolution of the Organization, which has outgrown the stage of conceptualization  and has undertaken concrete measures in response to the needs of Member States, especially the devel-  oping countries.
(45.5) Thirdly, two developments of great importance have taken place in the Organization itself. The  first of these is the increase in the number of Member States and the diversity of their cultures and out-  looks. The second is that Unesco programmes, as reflected in the medium-term plans, are based on  an analysis of international problems, and are closely linked to the ultimate goals of the Organization as  defined in the Constitution. In thirty years, the Organization has developed from a nascent body of limited  membership concerned with laying down its theoretical bases into a full-fledged institution with diversi-  fied membership, which handles international problems responsibly and realistically. Such trends in the  development of the Organization require greater reliance on governments and their policies; they also  imply that attempts should be made to reconcile divergent positions. All this must have a bearing on the  Executive Board itself,
(45.6) Fourthly, if the membership of the Board is limited to Member States in principle, this is bound to  enhance governments' interest in the topics submitted to the Board, and tc encourage them to define the  respective positions they adopt in other international organizations and vis-à-vis regional and interna-  tional problems. In fact, this is the case at present, as regards Board members representing the great  powers. They abide by their government's policies, express their views and benefit from their various  organs and facilities. This should also apply to the developing countries, which should increase the  responsibilities of their representatives and provide them with adequate information on policies and  trends in their countries. In fact this is the aim sought by the proposed amendment.
(45.7) Fifthly, the proposed amendment does not affect in any way the qualifications required of candidates  or their relevant experience in the fields of competence of the Organization. If Member States take into  account at present the specific qualifications of their respective candidates, they are expected to abide by  the same criteria when these candidates are chosen as representatives of their countries. We hope that  the proposed texts will emphasize this aspect, as well as the principle of continuity of membership, excep-  tional cases apart.
(45.8) Sixthly, the proposed amendment will help avoid cases, rare as they may be, in which differences  may arise between a member of the Board and his government.
(45.9) Seventhly, such an amendment will not entail any change in the Organization's objectives or in  Member States' obligations towards it. It does not need to be approved for a second time by a two-thirds  majority.
(45.10) In the light of these considerations, we support this amendment in whatever legal form it may  take to ensure its implementation.
(45.11) As for the increase in the number of members of the Executive Board, we support the Burmese  proposal as amended by Rwanda, for two main reasons: firstly, because of the increase in the number  of Member States to 141; and secondly, because it rectifies representation ratios, so as to render them  fairer to the representation of developing countries. In my opinion, the fifth group deserves three seats,  one of which should be allocated to the subgroup of Arab States. We are pleased to note that this view is  shared by the Asian and African group. Thank you Mr. President.
46. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The next speaker is the delegate of Japan.
47.1 Mr. HIRONAGA (Japan): :  Thank you Mr. President. First of all I would like to comment on the Swedish proposal to  amend Article V of the Unesco Constitution so that the membership of the Executive Board would  consist of Member States rather than individuals. In the past four years this question has been the  subject of a series of studies and examinations by the General Conference and by the Executive  Board. The question Was also a subject of consultation among Member States in the past two years,  as the Legal Adviser mentioned. In this consultation the views of Member States were almost  equally divided, as the distinguished delegates here present well know. Therefore, despite such  a series of studies and consultations, it can hardly be said that clear-cut conclusions have been  reached. This fact I believe deserves our attention. Mr. President, my delegation is fully aware  why Sweden submitted the proposal and is still maintaining it. My delegation also listened carefully  to the introduction on this item given by the distinguished delegate of Sweden. Certainly we did ex-  perience an unusual situation in the Executive Board several years ago. However, I repeat that it  was precisely an unusual situation, and that no other similar cases have occurred since then. Ac-  cordingly, my delegation is not convinced that the Constitution has to be amended by voting at this  stage in the direction proposed by Sweden. The fundamental view of the Government of Japanis that  the current provisions of Article V of the Constitution can stand satisfactorily. In other words, the  Government of Japan does not find it appropriate to alter the character of the members of the Board  at this stage.
47.2 The reasons are as follows. First, Unesco occupies a unique position in the United Nations  family as an agency specialized in education, science and culture, which are fundamentals of the  humanities. For this very reason, Article V of the Constitution provided that the General Confer-  ence shall elect Board members "from among the delegates appointed by the Member States''andin  electing the members of the Board "the General Conference shall endeavour to include persons com.  petent in the arts, the humanities, the sciences, education and the diffusion of ideas, and qualified  by their experience and capacity to fulfil the administrative and the executive duties of the Board",  Secondly, Mr. President, according to the current provisions of Article V of the Constitution, the  members of the Board perform such functions as are delegated to them by the General Conference,  under the Constitution, on the basis of their own expertise and knowledge as individuals elected by  the General Conference, as the distinguished delegate of Italy has said. At the same time they, as  representatives of their respective governments, express the views of these governments. There.  fore active participation of the governments of Member States in the Executive Boardis adequately  ensured under the present system, as far as it is properly applied. Thirdly, Mr. President, amend.  ments to the Constitution concerning the term of office, the number and election procedures of the  members of the Board have been made in the recent past and the effects of these amendments are  not yet clearly known. Therefore, the advisability of further amendment is hardly convincing.  Problems, if any, might be considered better when they arise out of further application of the pres.  ent system. Fourthly, programmes in the fields of education, sciences and culture often cover a  long period of time and require a certain continuity in their implementation, as the distinguished  delegate of Italy has already pointed out. According to our past experience, a newly-elected mem-  ber of the Board needs almost one biennium to become familiar with the conduct of the business of  the Board, and he or she can more fully contribute to the functioning of the Board only in his or her  second biennium. However, this period of familiarization might no longer be the rule, I am afraid,  if a Member State represented on the Board changes its representative very frequently, which could  be permitted if the Constitution were to be amended as Sweden proposes. Mr. President, in the light  of the said considerations, my delegation feels it difficult to support the Swedish proposal.
47.3 Mr. President, now I come to the Mexican proposal contained in document 19 C/32 whichdoes  not aim at changing the character of the members of the Executive Board. The members of the  Board remain as individuals, each of whom represents the government of the State which he or she  is a national. However, the proposed amendment said: "When exceptional circumstances arise  which, in the considered opinion of the represented State make it indispensable for its representa-  tive to be replaced, even if he does not tender his resignation, measures shall be takenin accord-  ance with the provisions of subparagraph (a) above'. In our view, this amendment, if adopted,  would allow a government represented on the Board to replace at any time its representative onthe  Board, who is a sort of international civil servant. This might be considered to constitute a con-  travention to a decision by the General Conference which is the supreme organ of our Organization.  Therefore, my delegation feels it difficult to support the Mexican proposal at this stage.
47.4 Mr. President, with regard to the proposals submitted by Burma in document 19 C/70 and by  Rwanda, in document 19 C/105, the Japanese delegation fully appreciates and has full sympathy with  the sincere desire on the part of the developing countries for fuller participation in the activities of  the Executive Board. However, my delegation would like to draw the attention of the Conference to  the following considerations. The first point is the efficiency of the Executive Board. Under the  current system of forty members of the Board, as against 140 Member States of Unesco, the ratio  of representation is 28. 6 per cent. This is high, coming next to FAO, which has a ratio of 30. 9 per  cent. If we look at the cases of other Specialized Agencies of the United Nations, UPU has 26 per  cent, ITU has 24.3 per cent, and ICAO has 22. 6 per cent. However, if the number of the Board  members is to be increased by four, as proposed by Burma, the Unesco ratio will increase to 31.4  per cent, and if increased by five, as proposed by Rwanda, the ratio will increase to 32.1 per cent,  which would be the highest ratio among the United Nations Specialized Agencies. This, of course,  would mean a considerable increase in the opportunities of representation on the Board for many  Member States. But my delegation is rather afraid that such an increase might on the other hand,  hamper the efficiency of the work of the Executive Board.
47.5 The second point, Mr. President, to which my delegation has given thought is the financial  question. If we take account of the present financial situation of Unesco, the cost required for in-  creasing the number of Board members by 4 or 5 might sacrifice important programmes, inso far  as the cost required is to be absorbed within the provisional budget, proceeding as the Director-  General has proposed. Mr. President, these provisions have not yet been studied deeply by the  Executive Board. My delegation is accordingly inclined to suggest that any possible repercussions  of the Burmese and Rwandese proposals should be further studied by the Executive Board, and by  the Director-General, before a decision could be taken by the General Conference at its twentieth  session - that is, not the present session, but the next session of the General Conference. Thank  you, Mr. President.
48. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Japan and call on the distinguished delegate of Jordan.  (Rani Vitis, VAS) cp sida i geal) ig)  Comal) € (SSI Joost! Veg de go « Anal die be be & uss] irr] son) 5 dw 153  Joti lias ol 5 alles 58e Ÿ Lai 150 Linz Dos #5 hdd gala | 5 Jia 8 Le 131631 5 JU]
(49.1) Mr. AL NOUR (Jordan) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you Mr. President. May I, as the representative of a developing country, comment on the  Mexican draft amendment. If representation on the Board became purely governmental in nature, the  representatives of developing countries would undoubtedly be subject to constant replacement by their  respective governments. Consequently, they would be bound to be less experienced than their counter-  parts who enjoy continuous membership. They would not be in a position to be fully acquainted with the  issues handled by the Board.
(49.2) I proceed now to comment on the representation ratios proposed by the representative of Rwanda.  These amended figures aim at redressing the unfair situation of the developing countries in respect of  representation, For the first group, the present ratio is 1: 2.7; .for the second, 1: 2.75; for the third,
1: 3.43; for the fourth, 1: 3.5; and for the fifth, 1: 3.8. The Rwandese amendment proposes 1: 2.7,
1: 2.75, 1: 3, 1: 3 and 1: 3.5 respectively. It is evident that, even with the adoption of the Rwandese  amendment, the fifth group will not find itself in a comfortable position; it will remain victim of injus-  tice. This would make the submission of another amendment at the next session inevitable. Thank you  Mr. President.
50. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Jordan. The next speaker is the distinguished delegate of  Sri Lanka.
51. Mr. DE SILVA (Sri Lanka):  I am taking the floor, Mr. President, only to support the proposal made by the distinguished  delegation of Burma, and the amendment to it submitted by the distinguished delegation of Rwanda.  The position has been elloquently presented by these two delegations, Mr. President, and I do not  wish to repeat what has been said, but on behalf of my delegation I only wish to state that as a de-  veloping country, as a small country, we find that we should have a greater sense of confidence in  this Organization. I do not mean that our country is without this confidence, but my delegation  strongly feels that the expansion of the Executive Board proposed in these amendments may cer-  tainly give us, the smaller countries, the developing countries, that confidence which we need in  this Organization. Finally, then, I wish to say that my delegation fully supports and endorses the  views expressed by the delegations for Burma and Rwanda in favour of this proposal. Thank you,  Mr. President.
52.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Sri Lanka.
52.2 The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 1.00 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13h. 00  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 13.00  Sacemanne sakpbBaercs B 13.00  rp BI nez Fram IV Ge Lud Balad) end,