Second plenary meeting
26 October 1976 at 3,50 p.m.  President: Mrs. JOBORU (Hungary)  Deuxième séance plénière
26 octobre 1976 à 15 h. 50  Présidente : Mme JOBORU (Hongrie)  Segunda sesiôn plenaria
(21) sam Bond: Gus  MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS OF THE UNION OF SOVIET  SOCIALIST REPUBLICS  MESSAGE DU PRESIDENT DU CONSEIL DES MINISTRES DE L'UNION DES REPUBLIQUES  SOCIALISTES SOVIETIQUES  MENSAJE DEL PRESIDENTE DEL CONSEJO DE MINISTROS DE LA UNION DE REPUBLICAS  SOCIALISTAS SOVIETICAS  TOCHAHHE NPEICEIATEJISI COBETA MHHHCTPOB CON3A COBETCKHX  COMHANHCTHYECKHX PECIYBJIHK  dodged | AS) sale Lg pes I D last #150 done quil, Ju,
1. The PRESIDENT: |  The meeting is called to order, Before we resume our work, I am going to read a message  which I have received from the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the USSR to the participants  of the nineteenth session of the Unesco General Conference, Nairobi, The message reads as  follows:  "On behalf of the Council of Ministers of the USSR I convey my greetings to the participants  in the nineteenth session of the Unesco General Conference which opens on the eve of the  thirtieth anniversary of the Organization, For the first time the General Conference meets  on African soil. This stresses not only the growing role of African counties in the activi-  ties of Unesco, but also the necessity for the early and complete liquidation of the last ves $  tiges of colonialism, racism and apartheid on the African continent, by means of the conso i-  dation of all democratic forces. Being one of the large and also authoritative se  of the United Nations family, Unesco makes its contribution to the cause of détente and o al  consolidation of international peace. This positive role of Unesco is mentione in the Fi ;  Act of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe whose resolutions, EAE  and example have great importance for the other continents as well, Unesco's activities
255   many years have convincingly testified that, the more actively the Organization participates,  within its sphere of competence, in solving such crucial contemporary problems as the engyp.  ing of international security, the struggle for the final liquidation of colonialism and its conge.  quences, the development of wide international co-operation in the fields of education, Science,  terest of the peoples of all countries, the higher is its prestige  culture and information in the in ;  Tt is considered in the Soviet Union that Unesco can and should still more purposefully use its  possibilities to influence public opinion in the interests of bringing to an end the arms race,  reducing military expenses and switching over to disarmament. The fulfilment of this task  will allow mankind to release gigantic material and spiritual resources for the aims of social,  economic and cultural progress, and to accelerate considerably the process of establishing  and consolidating just political and economic relations among the nations of the world, The  Soviet Union, implementing the programme of a further struggle for peace and international  co-operation and for the freedom and independence of the peoples, will do everything necess-  ary to support Unesco's activities serving these human aims and ideals. The Soviet Govern-  ment wishes the participants in the nineteenth session of the General Conference success in  their work of elaborating Unesco's decisions, which contribute effectively to the process of  materializing détente, making it more profound and putting it into the concrete forms of equal  and mutually beneficial cultural and scientific international co-operation,     Alexei Kosygin,  Chairman,  Council of Ministers of the USSR."  STATEMENT BY THE TEMPORARY PRESIDENT CONCERNING THE APPLICATION OF  ARTICLE IV, PARAGRAPH 8 (b) OF THE CONSTITUTION  APPLICATION DU PARAGRAPHE 8 (b) DE L'ACTE CONSTITUTIF : DECLARATION DE LA  PRESIDENTE PROVISOIRE  APPLICACION DE LAS DISPOSICIONES DEL ARTICULO IV, PARRAFO 8, APARTADO b) DE  LA CONSTITUCION : DECLARACION DE LA PRESIDENTA PROVISIONAL  TPHMEHEHHE NIYHKTA 8 (b) CTATBH IV YCTABA: 3ASIBIIEHUE  BPEMEHHOI'O MIPE ICE IE TA JIS  I Gd Ge Bun LIN BOL 5 (5) A BEN pT kes oy BEI Be I 5 Le
2.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, before taking up consideration of the First Report of the Credentials  Committee, it is my duty to inform the Conference on the arrears of contributions and their conse-  quences on the voting rights of Member States at the present session of the General Conference,  In application of Article IV, paragraph 8 (b) of the Constitution, the right to vote is made condi-  tional upon the payment by Member States of their financial contributions. Article IV, para-  graph 8 (b) reads as follows:  "A Member State shall have no vote in the General Conference if the total amount of contribu-  tions due from it exceeds the total amount of contributions payable by it for the current year  and the immediately preceding calendar year",
2.2 At this date, the provisions of this article will be applicable to seven Member States, since  the amount of their arrears exceeds the amount of contributions due for the current financial  period. These States are: Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Dominican Republic, El  Salvador, Nicaragua and Paraguay. These States will therefore be unable to vote during this  session of the General Conference unless the Conference specifically authorizes them to do so.  We will be taking up the question of arrears of contributions as the next item on our agenda after  hearing the First Report of the Credentials Committee,  FIRST REPORT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE AND FIRST SUPPLEMENTARY  REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE COMMITTEE  PREMIER RAPPORT DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES POUVOIRS ET PREMIER  RAPPORT SUPPLEMENTAIRE DE LA PRESIDENTE DU COMITE  PRIMER INFORME DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION DE PODERES Y PRIMER  INFORME COMPLEMENTARIO DE LA PRESIDENTA DEL COMITE 2  IEPBBIE TOKAI KOMUTETA IO IPOBEPKE MONHOMOYHÏŸ H MEPBBIA MOMOJIHHTEJMbHbW  JOKIJIAL TPENCENATEJS S9TOTO KOMHTETA  Ball dat) BY La, lly ols YI GE by pa mall YI, al)
3. The PRESIDENT:  I now give the floor to Her Excellency Mrs, Aldaba-Lim, Chairman of the Credentials  Committee.
4,1 Mrs. ALDABA-LIM (Philippines), Chairman of the Credentials Committee:  Madam President, distinguished delegates: I have pleasure in presenting the First Report of  the Credentials Committee, The Committee established on 26 October 1976 by the a  ence of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization at its nineteenth ordin-  ary session met at 12,45 p.m. today. The Committee consists of the dele  Member States: Ecuador, Mexico, Philippines, Poland, Sier  of Soviet Socialist Republics, United States of America,  tv   gates of the following  ra Leone, Sweden, Tunisia, Union
4,2 The Committee appointed as its Chairman the delegate of the Philippines.
4,3 In accordance with Rules 22 and 28 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. the  Committee proceeded to examine the credentials received by the Director-General ;
4,4 The delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics objected to the credentials submitted  in the name of Chile, The delegate of Poland supported this objection,
4,5 The delegate of the United States of America expressed reservations with respect to the  credentials submitted in the name of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam,
4,6 The Committee decided that the delegations of the following Member States were duly accredi-  ted in conformity with Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference by documents  issued by the head of the State, the head of the Government, the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the  Minister authorized by the Minister of Foreign Affairs to issue credentials, These States are  listed in the alphabetical order of their names in French: Afghanistan, Algeria, Federal Republic  of Germany, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Belgium, Benin, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,  Burma, Brazil, Bulgaria, Central African Republic, Chile, Cyprus, Colombia, Republic of Korea,  Ivory Coast, Cuba, Denmark, Egypt, Ecuador, Spain, United States of America, Ethiopia, Finland,  France, Gabon, Gambia, Guinea, Honduras, Hungary, Indonesia, Iraq, Iran, Ireland, Iceland,  Israel, Jamaica, Jordan, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan  Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, Malawi, Malta, Morocco, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia,  Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, New Zealand, Oman, Uganda, Papua New Guinea, Philippines,  Poland, Portugal, Qatar, German Democratic Republic, Democratic People's Republic of Korea,  United Republic of Cameroon, Romania, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,  San Marino, Sierra Leone, Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Surinam, Syrian Arab Republic,  United Republic of Tanzania, Chad, Czechoslovakia, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukrainian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Venezuela, Socialist Republic of  Viet Nam, Yemen, Democratic Yemen, Yugoslavia and Zambia,
4.7 The Committee recommends that the delegations of the above Member States be allowed to  take part in the work of the General Conference at its nineteenth session.
4,8 The delegates of the following States have submitted credentials in the form of telegrams or  letters or other documents issued by a minister other than the Minister of Foreign Affairs and not  so authorized by the latter, by the head of a diplomatic mission, by a permanent delegate to Unesco,  or by a senior official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The names of these States are given in  the alphabetical order of their names in French: Saudi Arabia, Argentina, Bangladesh, Barbados,  Bolivia, Burundi, Canada, China, Congo, United Arab Emirates, Ghana, Greece, Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana, Haiti, Upper Volta, India, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Luxembourg, Mali, Mauritius, Mauritania,  Pakistan, Panama, Netherlands, Rwanda, Senegal, Seychelles, Uruguay and Zaire,
4.9 The Committee proposes that these documents be accepted as provisional credentials of the  delegations of the above Member States subject to later presentation of credentials in due form  and that these delegations be meanwhile allowed to take part in the work of the nineteenth session  of the General Conference,
4,10 The Committee then examined the credentials of the observers from the Comoro Islands, the  Holy See and Swaziland, non-Member States of the Organization, It recommends that these  observers be admitted.
4,11 The Committee noted that a few Member States had not submitted credentials for their  delegations,
4.12 The Committee decided to authorize its Chairman to report directly to the General Confer -  ence on any credentials which might be submitted before it met again, on the understanding that  the Chairman might convene the Committee when necessary.
4.18 I also have pleasure, Madam President, distinguished delegates, in presenting the First  Supplementary Report of the Chairman of the Credentials Committee,
4.14 In accordance with the authorization given to me by the Committee at its first meeting held  earlier this afternoon, I have the honour to submit the following information to the General Confer -  ence, Since the Committee's meeting which I have already referred to, credentials in due form  have been received from Burundi, Canada, Mauritania, and the United Arab Emirates. In accord-  ance with the same authorization, I propose to the General Conference that the delegations of these  States be fully admitted to take part in the work of the nineteenth session of the General Conference,  Thank you, Madam President.
5. The PRESIDENT: . . : ;  I thank the Credentials Committee, and in particular its Chairman, for the work it has  accomplished in such a short time. Is there any delegate who wishes to speak on the Report of  the Credentials Committee? The delegate of the Soviet Union has the floor.
6.1 I'-u IHPA/OB (Cond CoBeTCKHX Counaniernuecxux Pecny01uK): A  T-xa Ilpexcexarenb, yBaxaeMble rocHoza, MOTHBEI, MO KOTOPHM COBerCcKHHä CoO103 BrCTyNaeT  NporuB mpuSHaHHa NONHOMOYHH Juan, 970 TC MACCOBBIE Hapyl1eHW1 OCHOBHbIX NPAB H CBO6Ox HeroBeka,  KOTOpble NPOJONKAIOTC A HA cerogususnä JeHb B OTOH CTPAHE. Y MeHs OUeHb MHOTO MaTepHasoB n  $akTOB, HO 4 OrpaHnYyCb MHUIIE OTACIBHBIMH HOPM@THBHEIMH MONO SHA TM TAKHX GONbIUX MeXayHa-  pogHsIx opraunsaunä, kak Opranusauns O6reunneuusx Haunt, IOHECKO, TaKHX JOKYMEHTOB, Kak  BceoGmas nexnapauns npas uexosexa, MexayHapozHBMN MaKT O NpaBax YenoBeka H Apyrux HSBeCTHEX  MEXIYHAPONHEX JOKYMEHTOB, B KOTOPBIX mepeyHCnAIorca BCE Te NPaBOHAPYUEHHs, KOTOPHE HMEDT  Mecro cerounsa B Unnu. Br OTIHYHO SHAËTE, yro OpraHudalus O6xeynxHeHHsIx Hauni, ee Opratn,  kak D'enepanbsas Accambnes, 5KOCOC, Komuccus no npasam 4enoseka, Ilonkomucena no  npeaynpexnennio AMCKPUMUHALIMM H SAINTE MEHBHHHCTB, Tak Xe Kak H MHOTHe ApyrHe Mex1yHapo1-  Hsle Opraunsaunu U ObljeCTBeHHbIe Œopymsl, HEONHOKPATHO BbIpAXA IH r1y6oky1D TpeBOry H O3aG0uey-  HOCTB B CBHBH C HOCTOAHHEIMH DPyÔOBIMH HAPyMeHKAMH SNÈMEHTAPHEIX NPAB YONOBEKA, KOTOPHIE Npouc-  xonunu H NPOHCXOAAT B Yum, H rpe6oBanu UX IpeKpaueHux  Takue,
6.2 Cocrospmascs HenaBHo B Konom6o KoupepeHLHsa rraB rocyxapcTB H NPaBUTENbCTB HernpHcoequ-  HHBIIHXCA CTpaH TakXe MOABEepr/ia CypoBOMY OCYXACHHIO npoJo/IKaoIHecCss MaCCOBbIE Ppernpeccuu B  Yuu n norpeboBana NpUHATH CEPbe3HbIe MEPL B UONAX HX npekpamenusi. Tpuauaras ceccus D'exepans-  Hot Accam6nen Oprannsaunu OOneguHeHHEX Haunñ no npoekry, NpexcraBneHHOMmy 38 TOCyHaperBamn,  NpHHATa pesonnuxD, B KOTOPOH BhIpasuna r1y60Ky 0 TpeBOry MO MOBOAY MOCTOSHHBIX TpyOsIX Hapyme-  Hnñ mpaB venopexa B Unu, OCYyAMNa YHNHHCKHE BNACTH 3a rpybble HapymeHH4a TaAKHX MpaB Ye/OBeKa,  MO MOBOJAY KOTOPHIX, KABANOCb Obl, BONPOC ABNAETCA GeccnopHeIM,8a UX OTKa3 paspeunrb Cneunans-  HO paboueil rpynne ANA paccexoBaHH4 MONOXEHHA B o6nacrH npaB YenoBeka B YUM MOCETHTE CTpa-  HY UM npuasana yunnñexñe BHACTH GesormaraTenbHO NPHHATB BCE HEOOXOIUMBIE MEPhl ASI BOCCTAHOB-  neuna 3alUThl OCHOBHEIX NPAB H CBO6OJ uenoBeKa H NONHOCTBIO YBAXATL NONOXEHHA MEXAYHAPOTHEIX  aKTOB, YYaCTHHKOM KOTOP»IX ABAseTcs Juin.
(6.1) Mr. PIRADOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Madam President, distinguished delegates, the Soviet Union's objection to acceptance of the creden-  tials of Chile is prompted by the large-scale violations of fundamental human rights and freedoms which  are continuing to this dayinthatcountry, I have a large quantity of material and data, but I shall confine  myself to individual standard-setting instruments of such major international organizations as the United  Nations and Unesco, and such texts as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International  Covenant on Human Rights and other well-known international instruments enumerating all those rights  which are being violated today in Chile, Your are well aware that the United Nations and its organs, such  as the General Assembly, ECOSOC, the Commission on Human Rights and the Subcommission on Preven-  tion of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities, together with many other international organizations  and public forums, have repeatedly expressed deep alarm and concern at the constant flagrant violations  of elementary human rights, which have taken place and are taking place in Chile, and have demanded that  they should cease.
(6.2) The recent Colombo Conference of Heads of State and Government of the Non-Aligned Countries also  severely condemned the continuing mass repressions in Chile and demanded that serious steps be taken to  put an end to them. The thirtieth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted a resolu-  tion, based on a draft submitted by 38 States, expressing profound distress at the constant flagrant viola-  tions of human rights in Chile and condemning the Chilean authorities for their flagrant violations of such  rights, which, it would seem, is beyond dispute, and for their refusal to allow the Ad Hoc Working Group  on the Situation of Human Rights in Chile to visit the country, and calling upon the Chilean authorities to  take, without delay, all necessary measures to restore and safeguard basic human rights and fundamental  freedoms and fully to respect the provisions of the international instruments to which Chile is a party.
(6.3) In resolution 11,31 adopted at its eighteenth session, the General Conference of Unesco, having  expressed its concern at the repeated charges of violations of human rights in Chile, particularly in the  field of education, science and culture, reiterated its condemnation of fascism as a doctrine and a system  of government, called for the immediate cessation of violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms  in Chile and requested the Director-General to take appropriate measures to secure full respect for human  rights in Chile,
(6.4) Meanwhile large-scale repression and persecution are conti  for justice and for humanism such as the General Secretary of the  Corvalän, and many prominent Chilean democrats, whose immedi. demanded by the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, continue to languish in prison, All this prompts the Soviet delegation to question the credentials of the Chilean delegati i i  of the General Conference of Unesco, Thank you for your attention, ERE TR  nuing in Chile, and outstanding fighters  Communist Party of Chile, Luis  ate release was recently and directly
7, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of the Soviet Union and I now call upon the delegate of the German  Democratic Republic,
8. Mr. HEINZE (German Democratic Republic):  Madam President, distinguished delegates: The delegation of the German Democratic Republic  would like to thank the Credentials Committee for the work it has done, My delegation finds itself  however, compelled to reject the mandate of the representatives of the Chilean Junta, This delega-  tion has no right to speak in the name of Chile and of the Chilean people, and we agree completely  with the reservation expressed by the Polish and the Soviet delegations in the Credentials Commit -  tee, The present rulers of Chile overthrew the legitimately -elected Government of the Unidad  Popular under its President, Dr, Salvador Allende, the great fighter for democracy and social  progress. For this reason we rejected the mandate two years ago. The fact that the Junta has  continued to oppress the peoples of Chile for another two years has not created a new situation  and is no substitute for the lacking legitimacy. Thank you, Madam President,
9, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of the German Democratic Republic. The next speaker is the delegate of  Algeria,
10.1 M. DERRADJI (Algérie). -  Madame la Présidente, la délégation algérienne considère les pouvoirs présentés par la  délégation représentant la junte chilienne comme émanant d'une autorité illégale condamnée par  l'opinion et les organisations internationales pour ses violations systématiques et extrêmement  graves des droits de l'homme, Ces pouvoirs sont donc considérés par la délégation algérienne non  seulement comme irréguliers mais aussi comme inexistants,
10.2 En ce qui concerne les Comores, la délégation algérienne considère, bien que ce pays ne  soit présent aujourd'hui que comme observateur en attendant son admission à l'Unesco, qu'il s'agit  des Comores unies dans le respect de leur intégrité territoriale, y compris l'île de Mayotte, Merci,  Madame la Présidente,
11, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Algeria, The next speaker is the delegate of Cuba,
(12.1) Mr. LE RIVEREND (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish): ; ;  Thank you, Madam President, Let my first words be to congratulate the Credentials Committee for  its rapid and efficient work, In this connection, we should like to state our reservations with respect to  the credentials of the representatives of the Government of Chile - the Junta now in power. Those creden-  tials were, are and will continue to be illegal, because they originated with the totally -unjustified take -
259   ; : to the Constitution respected by the Government of  hich took place in September 1973, contrary t st  ; : : of  LH va contrary to a deep-seated institutional tradition, with subversive aid from abroad, in  other words, against the will of the people and in order to strengthen neo-colonialism,
(12.2) When the Director-General spoke his eloquent words this morning concerning the crime of  "apartheid", this brought to our minds the daily, permanent consolidation of the alliance between the ingyp.  rectional Government of Chile and that of South Africa. Moreover, the said Government, as has been  pointed out, has failed to respect agreements of international bodies, among others those of Unesco itself,  to such an extent that, at the Colombo meeting, the plenary of the non-aligned countries adopted a most  expressive resolution which is familiar to everyone.
(12,3) We therefore request that those credentials should not be accepted, and that the reservations which  we now put forward should be taken as a severe and serious warning to that Government, The Organiza-  tion, acting through the will of its Member States, should give that warning.  t surprises us, Madam President, that reservations should have been expressed with regard  to the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, Because of its relations, its stability, its elections, its support  of all the people, it seems to us that to reject a people and State which have won full independence is tanta-  mount to yielding to a purely political pressure - one that is inadmissible, We request that the reserva-  tions with respect to the admission of the sister republic of Viet Nam should be disregarded. Thank you  very much,
13, The PRESIDENT:  :  I thank the delegate of Cuba and I give the floor to the delegate of Bulgaria,
14.1 M. DRAMALIEV (Bulgarie). -  Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, au nom de la délégation bul-  gare, je dois déclarer que nous ne pouvons pas nous prononcer en faveur de l'acceptation des pou-  voirs de la délégation du Chili, acceptation que nous combattrons. L'argumentation qui a été déve-  loppée jusqu'à maintenant par un bon nombre de délégués nous mène à la conclusion que ni du point  de vue moral, ni du point de vue logique, ni du point de vue juridique, ni même du point de vue poli-  tique, nous ne pouvons accepter les pouvoirs d'une délégation qui représente un gouvernement qui  se trouve en guerre totale avec son peuple.
14.2 Madame la Présidente, je voudrais seulement vous rappeler que, à la dix-septième session  de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco, Pablo Neruda avait été élu membre du Conseil exécutif, La  délégation bulgare votera comme si ce grand humaniste étaitavec nous. Merci, Madame la Présidente,
15. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Bulgaria, The next speaker is the delegate of Yugoslavia.
16. M. JOVANOVIC (Yougoslavie). -  Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, la délégation yougoslave con-  sidère comme nuls les pouvoirs de la délégation chilienne, Ces pouvoirs émanent de l'autorité mi-  litaire chilienne, qui a foulé aux pieds toutes les résolutions de l'Assemblée générale des Nations  Unies, de la Commissian des droits de l'homme, celles du Conseil exécutif et de la Conférence  générale de l'Unesco et encore d'autres résolutions qui demandent la cessation des violations des  droits de l'homme au Chili, la fin des meurtres et des tortures, la mise en liberté des fonction-  naires arrêtés du gouvernement Allende et des militants antifascistes, Ces autorités, rappelons-le,  n'ont pas autorisé un groupe de la Commission des droits de l'homme à se rendre au Chili, Merci,  Madame la Présidente,
17. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Yugoslavia, The next speaker is the delegate of Chile.
(18.1) Mr. FERNANDEZ (Chile) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President, I can still hear the words spoken here this morning by various authorities of this  Organization, and in particular those of the Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr. Wynter, welcoming us  to Nairobi, when he said that Unesco should be a forum for friendly and fruitful collaboration between the  peoples and the Member States which go to make it up, and not a centre for futile confrontations. The dele-  gation of the Government of Chile has come to Kenya in that spirit, and it was in that spirit that we took  part in the previous session of Unesco's General Conference which decided that the present one should be  held on African territory.
(18.2) Obviously, some delegations have a different purpose; it is not in every case one of friendly and  fruitful collaboration between peoples and States. On this occasion an attempt is being made to repeat what  happened two years ago at the session of the General Conference held in Paris: an attempt is being made  to convert it into a forum for sterile political confrontations which have nothing to do with the nature of  the work of this Organization, Some delegations, unlike ours, have brought with them speeches prepared  in advance, and this provides evidence of the aforesaid aim, We, on the other hand, have come in absol-  ute good faith and in the best spirit of collaboration; consequently my words are totally improvised on the  basis of a few notes that I have taken,
(18.3) The sole task of the Committee chaired by Mrs. Aldaba-Lim, is to see whether the credentials  presented have been issued by competent authorities and in the proper form, I note with great satisfac-  tion that most members of the Committee have acted in that spirit and have acted well.
(18.4) It is inappropriate, therefore, to embark upon a debate on the legitimacy of the government of a  Member State, Were this to be done, it would openly infringe the Constitution of Unesco and the Charter  of the United Nations, which prohibit the Organization from interfering in the internal affairs of Member  States, as we were told very recently. Nor is Unesco a tribunal competent to judge the political systems  of the governments which compose it. We reject the references made by the delegate of Cuba, in a most  emphatic form, as to whether our Government does or does not have a constitutional or legitimate origin,  This is an internal question which concerns the State and the people of Chile alone; and the allusion to  Chile which he made here, in the heart of Africa, relating it to the practice of "apartheid", I find insidi-  ous and totally unfounded. The Government of Chile, today, formerly and always, has vigorously opposed  the practice of ""apartheid!!, belongs to the Council of Namibia and has voted in favour of all the resolutions  of the United Nations system condemning that practice. Consequently, to make that allusion here, on  African territory, where we have come with the best intentions, seems to me insidious, to say the least.  d me have made use of a subterfuge to refer to presumed violations of  human rights, since the Organization has appropriate machinery for the study of this problem, and my  delegation and my Government have continually co-operated in this respect, in perfect good faith, with  à view to providing the fullest possible background information, Our opinion in this regard is that an  investigation of these matters should be carried out on a world-wide basis, an opinion which fortunately  has gained ground, and we stress that we have collaborated with the Committee which deals with those  matters and with the Organization in a most loyal and constant fashion,
(18.5) The speakers who precede
(18. 6) Consequently, to use presumed infractions of human rights in order to judge the government of a  Member State is, as I have said, nothing but a subterfuge. Everyone is fully aware that the Organization  has had experience of these problems of the violation of human rights, and that Chile has helped to eluci-
261   en levelled against her, in the competent organs of Unesco, It ig alts  quite fresh in everyone's memory that this task has been carried out, and that by good fortune it hag  recently been carried out on a much more global basis, because Chile has not been the only one to reply  and furnish information; other States have likewise been obliged to do so, and they are the very ones  which today are seeking to accuse us. Thank you very much, Madam President,  date the accusations which have be
19. The PRESIDENT: ;  +=  I thank the delegate of Chile and I call upon the delegate of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam,
20.1 M. NGO DIEN (République socialiste du Viêt-nam). - ag ; ;  Notre délégation voudrait remercier le Comité de vérification des pouvoirs d'avoir entériné  notre participation officielle malgré les réserves de la délégation des Etats-Unis. Je voudrais tout  simplement faire remarquer que le gouvernement qui a fait ces réserves ne saurait obtenir ce  qu'un demi-million d'hommes de troupe et des dizaines de millions de tonnes de bombes n'ont py  obtenir,
20.2 Je voudrais enfin me joindre aux orateurs précédents pour m'opposer a la participation de  la junte fasciste du Chili. Je vous remercie.
21. The PRESIDENT: | 8  I thank the delegate of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam. The next speaker is the delegate of  Brazil,
22.1 M. CARNEIRO (Brésil). -  Madame la Présidente, Messieurs et Mesdames les délégués, j'avais encore à l'oreille les  échos de la séance de ce matin où le Président Kenyatta a lancé un appel à la fraternité humaine,  où le Directeur général a évoqué avec une profonde noblesse les sentiments de coopération inter-  nationale, quand les voix de la haine se sont fait entendre. Les hautes personnalités qui sont venues  à cette tribune pour demander qu'un Etat membre soit privé du droit de prendre part à nos travaux  proviennent d'Etats qui n'ont pas de relations diplomatiques avec cet Etat. C'est un règlement de  compte qui se tient au sein de l'Unesco. Tous les pays ont des comptes à rendre à l'humanité, pour  les fautes qui se commettent sur leur territoire. Aucun n'est sans reproche, Que celui qui se croit  pur de toute faute lève la main, le Ciel le punira.
22.2 Madame la Présidente, si l'Unesco acceptait de juger les gouvernements de ses Etats  membres, où en serions-nous ! Combien d'Etats sont sujets à des mutations brusques, la plupart  du temps par des coups d'Etat ou des révolutions ! Faut-il qu'à chaque instant nous nous penchions  sur la valeur intrinsèque de ces événements, et que nous nous fassions juges du gouvernement qui  aura à assumer le pouvoir dans telle ou telle circonstance ? Je ne suis pas ici pour défendre le  gouvernement du Chili - il est capable de le faire lui-même - mais pour vous dire : n'oublions pas  qu'un tel précédent serait d'une extrême gravité et que ses retombées pourraient atteindre demain  n'importe lequel de nos pays et de nos gouvernements,
22.3 L'Unesco n'est pas indifférente à ce qui se passe au Chili, ni à ce qui se passe dans tout  autre pays où, selon des plaintes reçues, les droits de l'homme sont constamment violés ; mais  elle a ses procédures propres, elle a constitué un comité chargé d'examiner ces plaintes, et je  m'adresse à vous parce que j'ai l'honneur d'être le président de ce comité et que je sais que nous  agissons avec loyauté et fidélité à nos principes, en demandant aux Etats membres qui sontl'objet  de ces plaintes de se justifier, de se défendre, de présenter des excuses le cas échéant, et surtout  de réparer les fautes commises, N'est-ce pas le but de l'Unesco que de promouvoir cette entente  et d'assurer par son influence morale sur chaque Etat qu'il ne manque pas à ses devoirs constitu-  tionnels envers l'Unesco ? Est-ce en abandonnant un Etat ou en le rejetant hors de notre sein que  nous allons l'inciter à s'acquitter des obligations qui lui incombent ? Non, Messieurs les délégués,  n'acceptez pas des raisonnements qui trahissent trop de conflits idéologiques. Pour mieux aider  le Chili a réparer les fautes qu'il a commises, il nous faut agir avec dignité, loyauté, honneur,  en faisant sentir à son gouvernement, s'il a commis des fautes, qu'il doit les réparer, mais non  en le repoussant arbitrairement sans qu'aucun de vous ait jamais eu l'occasion d'examiner les  pièces justificatives ou accusatrices qui vous permettraient en toute conscience de porter un  jugement.
22.4 Messieurs, ne commençons pas la trentième année de l'Unesco par un débat insolite, injus-  tifié, et qui ne pourrait que porter malheur à notre Organisation. Ce ne sont pas seulement les  droits de l'homme qui sont en jeu dans les accusations qui ont été formulées ici ; il y entre beau-  coup de rancunes nationales, Nous, Latino-Américains, sommes plus que quiconque désireux de  préserver les Chiliens, hommes, femmes et enfants, de toute oppression possible, et c'est pour-  quoi nous demandons que le Chili reste parmi nous, qu'il entende nos considérations, qu'il assume  ses responsabilités, qu'il réponde demain par une amélioration de sa situation interne à l'appel  de notre Organisation, Mais ne le chassons pas arbitrairement, pour des raisons plus politiques  qu'humanitaires, d'une Organisation qui se doit d'être universelle,
23. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Brazil and I give the floor to the delegate of Colombia,
(24.1) Mr. MUNOZ (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President, fellow delegates: On another occasion I expressed my Government's disagreement  with political accusations made in Unesco, We have not yet begun the sessions, and two such accusations  have already been made today: one against Chile and the other against Viet Nam, In both cases it has  been argued that they have failed to respect human rights. We all know, and every one of the delegates  knows, that the Commission on Human Rights through one of its spokesmen, in Unesco, has stated that in  more than 100 countries violations are being committed against such rights,
(24.2) My Government considers that if Unesco wishes to act in strict justice, it should do one of two  things: the first is to set up within the Organization a body competent to study the question and to try to  find a remedy in each of those countries where human rights are being violated, a situation which is  ignominious for those countries and for all mankind, This is not to mention much more serious situations,  such as those in which discrimination is made on the basis of race or religion, or such flagrant violations  as l'apartheid'' in this esteemed continent. We believe that Unesco should set up such a body as an alter-  native; and such a course would entail serious investigation of each of those hundred countries where it is  said that there are violations of human rights.
(24.3) To single out two, or a few more, of the hundred countries does not seem to me to be just, nor do  I find it an attitude that would honour Unesco as an institution, Any secondary-school student would be  scandalized to think that when there were a hundred cases of accusations, only five or ten were being  investigated, As an alternative, we should establish such a body in Unesco to study in depth what is  happening and try to find a remedy for it, as I have said, Here the General Conference has a theme for-  study. If we wish to consider seriously the objective of human rights, if we wish to be a respectable  institution defending such rights, we should establish such a body to work seriously. If we do not estab-  lish one or cannot do so, or if we are incapable of bringing about just results, we should turn the matter  over to the institution which has been created for that purpose.
(24.4) I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that, as a tribute to the spirit which reigned in this room this  morning, and as a tribute to the great leaders who spoke here in favour of human cordiality, we should  refrain from making any accusation or condemnation of the two countries which were accused today in the  Credentials Committee before our work began, Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen,
25.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Colombia, As Ihave no more speakers, we shall now proceed to vote  on the First Report of the Credentials Committee.  (Voting was by show of hands, )
25.2 The result of the voting is as follows: T8 votes in favour, 1 against and 16 abstentions, The  First Report of the Credentials Committee is therefore adopted.  COMMUNICATIONS RECEIVED FROM MEMBER STATES INVOKING THE PROVISIONS OF  ARTICLE IV, PARAGRAPH 8 (c) OF THE CONSTITUTION  COMMUNICATIONS RECUES DES ETATS MEMBRES INVOQUANT LES DISPOSITIONS DU  PARAGRAPHE 8 (c) DE L'ARTICLE IV DE L'ACTE CONSTITUTIF
263   COMMUNICACIONES RECIBIDAS DE LOS ESTADOS MIEMBROS EN LAS QUE SE INVOCAN  LAS DISPOSICIONES DEL ARTICULO IV, PARRAFO 8, APARTADO c) DE LA CONSTITUCION  COOBIEHHS, MOCTYMUBINHE OT TOCYIAPCTB-YJIEHOB, COTIACHO NYHKTY 8 (c)  CTATBH IV YCTABA ; 2  Gl tall pe Bag BOLI 5e (2) A BAN pT IN Lis wis gly “Las 31 yh eB, ll ge  Ee]
26.1 The PRESIDENT: : {  We now take up item 3 on our agenda (Communications received from Member States invok-  ragraph 8 (c) of the Constitution), As I indicated to you at the  beginning of this meeting, the provisions of Article IV, paragraph 8 (b) of the Constitution are  applicable to the seven Member States I mentioned, These States cannot take part in the vote  unless specifically authorized to do so by the General Conference, They are, I repeat, Central  African Republic, Chad, Congo, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Nicaragua and Paraguay,  Paragraph 8 of Article IV says, however, that the General Conference may permit such Member  States to vote if it is satisfied that the failure to pay is due to conditions beyond their control,  Furthermore, I would like to remind you that the General Conference at its seventeenth session  decided to amend Rule 79 of its Rules of Procedure to the effect that the Executive Board should  consider, before each ordinary session of the General Conference, communications received from  Member States invoking the terms of Article IV, paragraph 8 (c), of the Constitution, The Board  then submits a report to the General Conference containing its recommendations on such  communications.  ing the provisions of Article IV, pa
26.2 Requests submitted by two States, Chad and the Lao People's Democratic Republic, were  examined by the Board at its 100th session, I now, therefore, call upon the Chairman of the  Executive Board to inform you of the recommendations of the Board on this subject.
27,1 Mr, WYNTER (Jamaica), Chairman of the Executive Board:  Thank you, Madam President. As you have explained, the Board had to consider communica-  tions received from Member States invoking the provisions of Article IV, paragraph 8 (c) of the  Constitution, I am grateful to you for calling attention to Article IV, Section C, paragraph 8 (b)  and (c) of the Constitution, the text of which is reproduced in paragraph 2 of document 19 C/22,  and through you, Madam President, I should like to invite delegates to look at that document now,
27.2 Article IV provides that a Member State loses its right to vote if its arrears exceed the  contribution payable by it for the current year and the immediately preceding calendar year, but  that the General Conference may nevertheless permit that Member State to vote if it is satisfied  that failure to pay is due to conditions beyond the control of the Member State. Therefore the  above provisions would apply to Member States whose arrears date back to 1973 to 1974 or earlier,  and as you reminded us, Madam President, in paragraph 3 of document 19 C/22, paragraphs 3  and 4 of Rule 79 of the Rules of Procedure are set out, which call for review by the Executive  Board of communications received from Member States invoking the provisions of the Article,  and which provide that before taking a decision on other communications of the same nature  received after the adoption of the Executive Board report, the General Conference may decide  to refer the question for examination to one of its Committees or Commissions, Madam President,  may I remind you that at its eighteenth session, the General Conference did refer such cases to  its Administrative Commission,
27,3 Now, may I draw your attention in particular again to document 19 C/22. When the Board  considered this item there were then communications from two Member States. These, as you  pointed out, Madam President, were Chad and the Lao People's Democratic Republic, The Board's  recommendation is set out in paragraph 6 of document 19 C/22. However, when the Board con-  sidered the communications from those countries, it did not have the information which has since  come in, which is why in paragraph 7, Madam President, there is no reference to the Lao People's  Democratic Republic among the Member States which are in arrears, That was because, by
20 October after the Board had considered the communications, the Member State had paid its  contributions. Consequently, Madam President, I would invite the Conference to amend para-  graph 6 of document 19 C/22; subparagraphs 1 and 2 need no amendment, but subparagraphs 3, 4  and 5 should read as follows:
3. Having considered the communication received from Chad contained in document
4, Being of the opinion that failure by that Member State to pay its contribution in arrears  would be due to conditions beyond its control,
5. Recommends to the General Conference to permit Chad to vote at its nineteenth session’.  The recommendation of the Board thus deals only with Chad, the situation of the Lao People's  Democratic Republic being no longer a matter for consideration by the Conference, Thank you,  Madam President,
28.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Executive Board for his explanation of the Board's recommenda -  tion, ‘As he has just informed you, the Lao People's Democratic Republic having paid the totality  of its outstanding contributions, references to that Member State should be deleted from para-  graph 6 of the draft resolution contained in document 19 C/22. We will therefore be dealing at  this time only with the case of one Member State, namely Chad,
28.2 I wish to draw your attention to Rule 79, paragraph 4, of the Rules of Procedure which  provides as follows:  "Before taking a decision on the communications referred to in paragraph 3 above or on any  other communication of the same nature received after the adoption by the Executive Board  on the above-mentioned report, the General Conference may decide to refer the question for  examination and report to one of its Committees or Commissions".  For my part, I think that in the case of Chad, whose communication was examined by the Executive  Board, this will not be necessary inasmuch as the Board's recommendation concerning it is very  clear. The General Conference has now before it all the necessary information to take a decision  on the case of Chad immediately. Does anybody wish to speak on the subject under discussion?
28.3 Since no delegation has asked for the floor, we can proceed to vote on the case of Chad,  (Voting was by show of hands.)
28.4 The Board's recommendation is adopted unanimously,  ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA /ADOPTION DE L'ORDRE DU JOUR/APROBACION DEL ORDEN  DEL DIA/ YTBEPXIEHHE IIOBECTKU IH JleY! Js a 131
29. The PRESIDENT:  We will now move to item 4 of the provisional agenda (Adoption of the agenda). I give the  floor to the Chairman of the Executive Board,
30. Mr. WYNTER (Jamaica), Chairman of the Executive Board:  Madam President, the Executive Board examined the provisional agenda at its 99th and 100th  sessions which took place in April/May and in September/October of this year, The Board did  this in accordance with Rules 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Confer -  ence. The results of their deliberations are set out in document 19 C/1 Rev,, which lists 77  items, I now have pleasure, Madam President, ih submitting this document through you to the  Conference for its approval,
31, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Executive Board, Does anybody wish to speak on this item? The  delegate of China has the floor,
32.1 M. HU SHA (Chine), -  En ce qui concerne les points 72 et 73 de l'ordre du jour provisoire de la dix-neuvième  session de la Conférence générale, respectivement intitulés "Le rôle de l'Unesco dans la création  d'une opinion publique favorable à l'arrêt de la course aux armements, à la réduction des réserves  d'armes accumulées, à la diminution systématique des dépenses militaires et au passage au dé-  sarmement'', et "Coopération culturelle et scientifique sur la base de l'égalité et de l'intérêt mu-  tuels en tant que facteur important du renforcement de la paix, de l'amitié et de la compréhension  réciproque entre les peuples'', la délégation chinoise estime nécessaire de faire les remarques  suivantes. Comme tout le monde le sait, la superpuissance qui a proposé d'inscrire ces deux  points à l'ordre du jour est précisément celle qui, sous le camouflage du désarmement et de la  détente, procède frénétiquement à l'expansion militaire et aux préparatifs de guerre et se livre  partout à des menées expansionnistes et agressives.
32.2 Il est évident que cette superpuissance, en faisant inscrire ces deux points à l'ordre du jour  provisoire de la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale, entend utiliser la tribune de  l'Organisation pour mener une propagande trompeuse destinée à camoufler ses agissements d'ex-  pansion militaire et de préparation à la guerre ainsi que ses activités agressives et expansion-  nistes ; elle tente encore de détourner ainsi l'attention de la Conférence générale de l'examen des  problèmes qui intéressent effectivement les Etats membres, en particulier les pays en voie de  développement. La délégation chinoise s'oppose donc fermement à ce que ces deux points soient  inscrits à l'ordre du jour de la Conférence générale. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
33. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of China and I give the floor to the delegate of Bulgaria,
34,1 Mrs, MILEVA (Bulgaria): : :  Madam President, item 72 of the provisional agenda (Role of Unesco in generating a climate  of public opinion conducive to the halting of the arms race, the reduction of accrue weapon  Stocks, the systematic diminution of military expenditure and the transition to disarmament) and
265  [5 ]   Cultural and scientific co-operation on the basis of mutual  equality and interest as an important factor in strengthening peaces friendship and reciprocal under  standing among peoples) are viewed by the delegation of the People's Republic of Bulgaria as excep-  tionally important and very closely connected with the fundamental tasks of our Organization,  item 73 of the provisional agenda (
34,2 In fact the safeguarding of peace, its preservation and development with the means at the  disposal of Unesco in the fields of its competence, is the first constitutional obligation of our  Organization. In the last two years the United Nations and some of the organizations of the Uniteq  Nations system have devoted considerable efforts to elaborating the theoretical foundations of the  new international economic order, In a more general manner, the problems of development have  been rightly attracting attention for more than two decades. The problems of development for us  in Unesco include such difficult tasks as the elimination of illiteracy, the opening of the doors of  schools and universities to as many young people all over the world as possible, the safeguarding  of the cultural identity of developing nations, the free democratic access to culture of the masses  of the people in every country of our planet.
34,3 Madam President, what could be more conducive to the attainment of all these noble aims of  our Organization and the strengthening of peace than disarmament? Is not disarmament the most  efficient way to liberate considerable sums of money, millions and billions of dollars, for develop-  ment, for greater aid and for meeting the urgent needs of the Third World countries. Certainly,  if we sincerely wish to take a resolute step towards solving some of the major problems of our  time, we should give our active attention to peace and disarmament,
34.4 For these reasons, we feel that items 72 and 73 are very appropriate and useful. We feel it  will be especially important to discuss these items at our present session which is being held on  the African continent where the problems of development are so conspicuous. And I would like,  Madam President, to say that we accept the provisional agenda as proposed by the Executive  Board, Thank you,
35. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Bulgaria. The delegate of Poland has the floor.
36.1 Mme KRASSOWSKA (Pologne). -  Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, la délégation polonaise  voudrait présenter son opinion sur les points 72 et 73 qu'il est proposé d'inscrire a l'ordre du jour  et souligner leur importance. Le point 72 touche au rôle de l'Unesco dans la création d'une opinion  publique favorable à l'arrêt de la course aux armements. On n'a besoin de convaincre personne  que le désarmement est un problème d'une énorme importance pour le monde contemporain, Il  est une condition essentielle du renforcement du processus de détente et du maintien de la paix,  On ne peut pas construire avec conviction une paix durable sur des dépôts de munitions qui pour-  raient faire sauter toute notre planète. Les Nations Unies s'occupent du problème des armements  sous tous ses aspects ; le débat de la session actuelle de l'Assemblée générale le prouve. Le  Comité du désarmement à Genève tâche de résoudre ce problème d'une façon globale, Il n'en faut  pas moins que l'opinion publique, dont nous apprécions beaucoup l'importance, appuie les efforts  des gouvernements.
36.2 C'est justement le devoir de l'Unesco de démontrer à l'opinion publique l'étendue du danger  qui résulte de la course aux armements, de la production d'armes nouvelles dont la force destruc-  trice est difficile à imaginer, Notre Organisation peut et doit démontrer de la façon la plus com-  plète que le désarmement peut fournir des moyens immenses pour ce qui est d'éliminer la famine,  le chômage, l'analphabétisme ou d'assurer le développement de la science, de l'éducation, de la  culture, Les sciences sociales, dont l'importance dans le programme de l'Unesco s'accroît de  façon systématique, ainsi que les nombreuses publications de l'Organisation, peuvent jouer un  rôle immense dans la formation des attitudes de millions de gens et de la mentalité de la jeunesse,  ainsi que dans la lutte pour l'arrêt de la course aux armements.
36.3 Ce n'est d'ailleurs pas un problème nouveau pour notre Organisation. La résolution adoptée  à la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale sur la contribution de l'Unesco à la paix re-  commandait au Directeur général "de prévoir, lors de 1'élaboration du Projet de programme et  de budget pour 1977-1978, l'exécution d'activités visant à intensifier encore l'action de l'Unesco  en faveur du désarmement!', La proposition tendant à inscrire le point 72 à l'ordre du jour est  directement liée à l'exécution de ce mandat, compte tenu des responsabilités qui nous incombent  quant à la mise en oeuvre des décisions prises.
36.4 En ce qui concerne le point 73, il est lié à toutes les activités de l'Unesco, Il est inutile de  citer ici les résolutions, déclarations, recommandations adoptées par la Conférence générale de  l'Unesco concernant l'importance de la coopération scientifique et culturelle pour la compréhen-  sion mutuelle et l'amitié entre les peuples et pour la consolidation de la paix, Nous jugeons utile  et nécessaire de faire le bilan des efforts dans le domaine de la coopération scientifique et cultu-  relle, d'évaluer les résultats de cette coopération et d'indiquer les voies de l'approfondissement  de cette coopération pour la réalisation des objectifs de l'Unesco, tels qu'ils sont énoncés dans  son Acte constitutif. ;
36.5 Pour ces raisons, nous appu UT ipti i 5 i i ’ yons l'inscription de ! r. Mercl, Madame la Présidente. ption ces deux points à l'ordre du jou
37,1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Poland and I have no more speakers. I think there is general agree-  nent ion document 19 C/1 Rev. apart from the question of the inclusion of items 72 and 73 on which  a separate vote appears to be necessary. I therefore put this question to the vote first,  (Voting was by show of hands, )
37.2 The result of the vote is as follows: 34 votes in favour, 2 against and 53 abstentions,
37,3 The two items 72 and 73 are consequently included in the agenda of the General Conference.
37,4 Now I put to the vote document 19 C/1 Rev. as a whole,  (Voting was by show of hands. )
37.5 The agenda of the General Conference, document 19 C/1 Rev,, has been unanimously  adopted. Thank you.
37,6 Now, with your permission, I should like to invite the Nominations Committee to meet in  Room II immediately after this meeting to draw up the list of nominations for the posts of President  and Vice-Presidents of the General Conference and also for the Chairmanship of the different  Commissions and Committees. I should like to remind you that, in accordance with Rule 29 of the  Rules of Procedure, the Nominations Committee is composed of the heads of all delegations entitled  to vote in the Conference, Naturally, the head of a delegation may designate another member of  his delegation to attend meetings and vote in his place, The representative of each delegation on  the Committee may be assisted by another member of his delegation,
37.7 The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 5.35 p.m.  La séance est levée à 17 h. 35  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 17.35