Seventeenth plenary meeting
4 November 1976 at 9 a.m.  President: Mr. TOWEETT (Kenya)  then: Mr. BLANKENHORN (Federal Republic of Germany)  Dix-septième séance plénière
4 novembre 1976 à 9 heures  Président : M. TOWEETT (Kenya)  puis : M. BLANKENHORN (République fédérale d'Allemagne)  Decimoséptima sesiôn plenaria
2 to deb LET LS  Lo dll jayt 51 ups eds €  (LS) eus andl; put SI  (aol Lola en) app L ead) 5  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)/DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)/ DEBATE DE  POLITICA GENERAL (continuacibén)/ OBCYXIEHHE BOIIPOCOB OBMEX IMOJNHTHKH (npoxonxenne)  (et) do load! du Lid) Bs Lie
1. The PRESIDENT: x  Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I have pleasure in calling on H. E. Professor Nurul  Hasan, Minister for Education, Social Welfare and Culture and head of the delegation of India.
2.1 Mr. HASAN (India):  Mr. President, distinguished delegates, before I begin I should like to express on behalf of my  Government and my delegation our deep sense of sorrow and our sympathy for the I ses  tims of the earthquake in Indonesia. I should be grateful if the distinguished delegates GOT  Indonesia would be so kind as to convey to their Government that we are with them in their hour of  dolour and are deeply conscious of the human suffering caused by this terrible natural calamity.
2.2 This, Mr. President, is indeed an historic occasion when Unesco is meeting for the first time  on African soil. The people of this great continent are known both for their vitality and Ps  manism. They have made a notable contribution to the establishment of a just ae a a  We wish them success in the completion of their unfinished revolution and pledge our i ne  wholehearted support to their struggle for freedom, independence and development, ee iy  Mr. President, one of the last great pronouncements of Jawaharlal Nehru: The i 9 boy Ye  has been an exciting one. It has seen two great and horrible wars, the se 0 ei  bomb and the use of it, and the continuing development of nuclear weapons casting a  the world. We have seen some of the old countries of Asia, including India, attain oy  But, I think, perhaps the most exciting thing that has happened and is Le me this Con-  century, is the awakening of Africa. In keeping with this spirit it was et one of ference should be inaugurated by no less a person than President Jane Songs 3 ly a preciate the most respected leaders in the struggle for freedom on this continent. We eep iE  that this distinguished son of Africa has provided leadership to our SENSES ES Whi  message, conveyed to us in clear and perceptive terms, has great meaning and r  problems of our tormented world.
2.3 Permit me, Mr. President, to associate myself with my sin ae re  Warmly congratulating you on the assumption of the high office of Presi sn under your able  teenth session of the General Conference of Unesco. We are confident that, HL bi  and wise guidance, this Conference will reach fruitful conclusions on the many Mom
17 that we are considering. I should also like to express my delegation's appreciation of the contri.  bution made by the outgoing President, Mrs. Magda J6borfi, her enlightened leadership during the  last session of the General Conference, and the keen and abiding interest which she has taken in the  affairs of Unesco over the past two years. It gives us great pleasure to see among us a number of  leaders from the new Member States who have the onerous responsibility of moulding the destinies  of free and independent nations. We extend a warm welcome to the delegates from Papua New Guinea  Surinam, Grenada, Mozambique and Seychelles, and to those of the latest country, Angola, to sc ,  the ranks of the Member States of Unesco with full rights. We should like also to extend our warm  welcome to the delegation of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam. We rejoice in the historic Victory  of the Vietnamese people and their achievement of unity and independence. In welcoming the dele-  gation from the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, we should like wholeheartedly to support their appeal  for assistance, within Unesco's sphere of competence, in the tremendous task of reconstruction  which they have undertaken.
9.4 To the Director-General of Unesco and his colleagues we convey our appreciation for the efforts  that they have made to infuse into the documents before the Conference a rare insight into the prob-  lems that beset mankind. We deeply appreciate the concern for man and his rightful place in this  world expressed by the Director-General in his address to the Conference. His moving appeal to’  us all will undoubtedly serve as an extremely valuable guideline for our deliberations. Three dec-  ades have passed, Mr. President, since we first met and pledged ourselves to construct "the de-  fences of peace in the minds of men''. It is now time to reflect how far we have travelled towards  the achievement of this noble ambition. For some years now Unesco has become increasingly con-  scious of the need to formulate its objectives and programmes in the light of world problems.  Document 19 C/4 proposes a Medium- Term Plan on the basis of the analysis that "for contemporary  thought the world forms a whole, a unity of interrelated parts; a global approach to world problems  is manifestly the only approach which comes to terms with their real nature". A world of inter-  dependence postulates a world based on equality, equity and justice. Unfortunately some influential  and vociferous elements have started accusing this Organization of getting improperly involved with  political issues and, when decisions are taken which are not to their liking, they do not hesitate to  indulge in pressurization to bend this great Organization to their own will. I should like to submit  respectfully that this Organization constitutes a forum in which argument has to be met by argument  and the veracity of all opinions has to be tested by clear and fearless debate. The vision of a better  world must never be blurred or dimmed.
2.5 We cannot escape the stark reality that the forces of war and domination continue to strive for  ascendancy. .Despite repeated demonstrations of the futility of armed conflict the spectre of war  roams the earth. A fierce competition continues for developing sophisticated weapons of mass de-  struction to the point of being able to destroy this planet many times over. Yet, the genius and  compassion of man, his striving for excellence and perfection, have always been the driving force  behind the growth and development of human civilization. It is gratifying that these urges continue  to dominate the concept of human progress, making it necessary to devise measures to direct the  thinking of people towards the ways of peace.
2.6 Mr. President, among the most important causes of tension and strife are the policies of  racial discrimination and apartheid, particularly those still followed in Zimbabwe, Namibia and  South Africa. There must be an end to these intolerable practices, which are contrary to the basic  principles of human dignity and the lofty ideals of this Organization. We hope that the last vestiges  of colonialism will be eliminated once and for all and that the people suffering therefrom will receive  the justice that has been their due for many years. Unfortunately, pockets of tension and areas of  crisis persist also in other parts of the world. The situation in West Asia continues to be a source  of grave anxiety. Peace in this region must be based on recognition and restoration of the legitimate  national rights of the Palestinian people, and the vacation of occupied Arab lands and territories.  The proper functioning of Unesco presumes a real peace, and even while the efforts to establish  such a meaningful peace are continuing through other forums, Unesco should contribute its efforts  to ensure the preservation of the cultural heritage, social rights, and educational opportunities for  the people living in the occupied territories in West Asia. Yet another source of bitterness is the  widening gap between the developed and developing nations. We continue to evolve new processes  for harnessing the resources of nature but, sadly, these resources are overwhelmingly consumed  by a disproportionately small section of mankind. Islands of unimaginable wealth have been created  in a sea of poverty and squalor, where the deprived and the exploited wage a daily struggle to obtain  the bare necessities of life. It is essential that we strive to awaken the conscience of man to these  glaring inequalities. Peace is indivisible, and a threat to human life and dignity in any part of the  world poses a challenge to mankind itself. The problems of development are, therefore, obviously  of pivotal importance to the building of a more harmonious world.
2.7 The adoption of the new international economic order has been a monumental step towards cor-  recting world imbalances and bringing about a realization that integrated progress in all sectors, 10-  cluding education, science and technology, social sciences, communication and culture, is necessary:  We should like to congratulate the Director-General and his colleagues for having undertaken a close  study of the concepts and objectives of a new international economic order, including its social, eul-  tural and human dimensions, and of the role of Unesco in securing it. It is a source of satisfaction  to all of us that for the first time we have a Draft Medium-Term Plan which will enable the activities  of Unesco to be guided towards well defined and essential objectives. This will surely enable Le  Organization to develop an effective and integrated approach to the urgent questions facing mankin  today. We should particularly like to express our appreciation for this document.
9.8 In the struggle to achieve peace and universal harmony,  energies are channelled into activities which will further the  sphere of action which comes to mind is naturally education.  icated as it is essential for young boys and girls to be brought  them aware of the dignity of labour, the need for self- :  sponsibility towards society. The younger generation  ushering in a social and intellectual revolution not onl  manner in which they make themselves an integral pa  to meet the challenge of catering for the needs and re  to realize our goal of providing equality of opportunity, in order th i i  with vertical as well as horizontal mobility, we vtt aA in iy I ber meaningless unless complemented with programmes of non-formal and adult education a : for functional literacy. Education must indeed be regarded as a life lon fii  I should like particularly to stress our support for the objectives outlined by Unesco. My delegation  wishes to express its appreciation for the valuable work already done by Unesco in pd if : and means of developing non-formal education, and yet we should not overlook the fact that a 3  formal education cannot replace the formal system. Let us consciously recognize that the advan-  tages of non-formal education should not be advanced as a pretext for reducing the outlay on educa-  tion. The difficult economic problems faced by the developing nations have forced them to reduce  their financial allocations for education. Can we ignore the peril that humanity faces because of this  situation? I do hope that Unesco will succeed in arousing the conscience of mankind so as to ensure  that millions and millions of children are not denied the advantages of proper education. Atthe same  time, Unesco has to provide assistance to the developing countries in defining the objectives of edu-  cation and the methods most suited to the attainment of those objectives.  to mould young minds so that their 17  cause of mankind, the most important  Itis necessary that illiteracy be erad-  > up in an environment which will make  reliance, and inculcate in them a sense of re.  must be made acutely aware of their role in  y In ways of thinking and living but alsoin the  rt of the productive forces of society. In order  quirements of an increasing population, in order  g process. Inthis connect on,
2.9 Any meaningful system of education must provide for the growth of body and mind in an inte-  grated manner. For the development of an all-round personality, for the creation of a human en-  vironment which will nurture growth - intellectual, moral and physical - it is vital that the impor-  tance of physical education and sports as a necessary constituent of life-long education be fully  recognized. We in the developing world have grown increasingly conscious of this aspect of educa-  tion, which can be ignored only at our own peril. We are aware that physical fitness programmes  and sports have a crucial role to play in the building up of character and in the strengthening of the  moral fibre of generations to come. To achieve these objectives, we are attempting to ensure that  the programme of physical education becomes a mass movement, and that sports become aninstru-  ment for the promotion of brotherhood, unity and goodwill. These are goals which cannot be  achieved without dedicated action and effort. The problem of nutrition for our young children, the  provision of adequate facilities to alleviate the monotony of daily life, and of incentives for the cre-  ation of the necessary interest and enthusiasm among the masses of our people, are areas which  require immediate action and in which no effort should be spared. Whereas on the national front,  these objectives must be achieved as soon as possible, it is equally essential that, on the inter-  national front, the nations ofthe world must work together to create, in the field of competitive  sport, a friendly environment of equality, mutual understanding and brotherhood. Unesco is to be  congratulated for its initiative in organizing earlier this year the first Conference of Ministers in  charge of Physical Education and Sports. We eagerly look forward to the implementation of the  many valuable recommendations of this Conference.
2.10 Mr. President, we are glad to see the importance attached to the role of science and tech-  nology in the Medium- Term Plan as well as in the Director-General's introduction to the Draft  Programme and Budget for 1977-1978. In the developing world, nations and societies are engaged  in the task of bringing about, as rapidly as possible, a substantial change in the quality of life of  the masses of their people. The most important vehicle for this transformation is the vehicle of  science and technology. It is obvious that medideval technology has failed to solve the problems  which have traditionally beset our societies. To improve the lot of the working man in the villages  and the long neglected areas, to bring to him the benefits of progress, it is essential thatour scien-  tists be aware not only of the tremendous advances made in the field of science and technology but  also of the need of applying the most sophisticated Knowledge at their disposal for the solution of the  simple problems of the countryside. In keeping with this spirit, we wholeheartedly endorse all ef-  forts to facilitate free access to science and technology by peoples throughout the world, and to  prevent restrictive practices in the field of scientific information and technical know-how. Nations  must build up indigenous capacities; they must decide on, utilize and develop, as they consider  necessary, the optimum mix of those technologies that are most effective for their own development  inethat they enable them to harness their natural resources for the welfare of their people and the  fulfilment of their own needs and aspirations. Unesco must continue its role in the field of science  and should strengthen its programmes in this sector. It should also be recognized that the ar  ment of science and technology needs laboratories and equipment. Every effort must be made to  ensure that adequate resources are allocated for the science and technology programmes of Unsere  commensurate with their importance for the entire range of problems within the scope of JR  competence. Equally important is the need to promote and inculcate among the masses o pu  the scientific outlook, so that they may not fall a prey to obscurantism and prejudice, so tha 33  may make conscious use of science and technology as a means of supplying their basic, wants an  may thus incorporate scientific values and knowledge as essential components of their culture.  nce and technology, we remain acutely
2.11 Mr. Presi i i he importance of scie ; sident, while stressing the imp 'raînestethumenttys The objective  aware of the need to ensure due respect for the basic cultura
679   must be to improve the total quality of life and not merely its material content. Our cultural values  govern our lives and pattern our thinking. We must give special attention to the problems of safe.  guarding the cultural heritage of mankind and of promoting a fuller understanding of the questiong  involved in cultural identity. We must seek to ensure a harmonious synthesis of individual ana uni.  versal needs, of traditional values and future requirements. At the same time, we have also to  guard against the subtle and insidious nature of cultural dominance and intellectual infiltration. If  even textbooks to be read in schools in developing countries are those written in the developed  countries by writers who have not outgrown imperialist or racial prejudices, if attitudes are to be  determined through devious means by products of a society where consumerism and waste and a  mad race for advancement have become dominant values, if the direction of scientific and techno.  logical research is-allowed to be distorted by the outlook and interests of multinational corporationg  if indigenous culture and aspirations are swamped by the shallow culture spread through high pres.  sure publicity media, the developing nations will not be able to build up the quality of their own life,
2.12 Mr. President, in spite of many handicaps, especially lack of financial resources and sophis-  ticated scientific and technological knowledge, the developing nations have forged ahead and have  begun to deal effectively with the massive problems they encounter. They have made contributions  to both the material and moral wellbeing of mankind. Unfortunately, in many cases, some of their  best trained personnel have left their countries to work in the industrialized nations. This phenom-  enon of the brain drain has led to the widening of imbalances between the poor and the rich nations,  Unesco has tried to point out the dangers inherent in this process. It has rightly stressed the need  for each nation to strengthen itself in the first place. There is also great scope for increasing col-  laboration among the developing countries themselves, and this would go a long way towards resoly-  ing these problems. Unesco can play an important role in fostering and intensifying such collabora-  tion among the developing countries.
2.13 I cannot help but dwell upon the need to rectify the present serious imbalance in the field of  communication and mass media, which has resulted in the world being given a distorted picture of  the problems and achievements of the developing countries. There is now an increasing recognition  of the need for collaboration among developing countries in the field of mass media. The historic  decisions taken at the New Delhi conference of non-aligned countries held in July this year now form  the basis for a new plan of co-operation among these countries for development of the communica-  tion media, such as the press, radio, television, cinema, literature and other arts. The idea of  a press agencies pool of non-aligned nations, adopted at the New Delhi Conference, is a definite  step towards self-sufficiency in the vital area of news dissemination. These decisions, endorsed  by the fifth summit meeting of non-aligned nations held in Colombo in August this year, would re-  quire technical and financial assistarice from Unesco.
2.14 We are gratified to find that many of these views find an echo in the working documents before  this Conference. We trust, however, that we shall all approach the issues that confront us in a  spirit of comprehension and tolerance.
2.15 Mr. President, one of our greatest tasks today is the maintenance and enrichment of values.  In a world beset by opportunism, the sense of values tends to get eroded. At the same time a cer-  tain brutalization makes us immune to the sufferings of our fellow-men. Over the years, man has  endured. He has struggled against the forces of nature and prevailed. It is only now that he has  come to realize that to survive he has to live in harmony with nature rather than fight it. Sadly,  man has not yet learnt to live in harmony with himself. He has yet to realize that peace and not  war, that progress in terms of enriching the total quality of his life and not in inventing more  weapons of destruction, that equality of all and supremacy of none, are the very essentials of his  onward march through the ages to come. Man has prevailed over nature but not over himself. It  is for the writers, the intellectuals, the scientists and educationists, the thinkers and policy-makers  to combine their energies to ensure that man prevails over himself and creates a climate of peace.  It is for Unesco to play a leading role in creating such a climate. The concept of peace has been  enlarged. As Prime Minister, Indira Gandhi, pointed out in her address in January this year to  the Pugwash Conference on Science and World Affairs: ''Peace is not merely the absence of war,  but active co-operation to work for survival and progress, to keep alive and provide opportunities  for the unfolding of the human personality". It is this concept of peace that has to be translated  into reality by the efforts of all Member States, through their co-operation in the fields of educa-  tion, science, culture and communication, and their whole-/hearted support to Unesco as it pursues  its lofty objectives for a better future for mankind. Thank you, Mr. President.
3. The PRESIDENT:  I thank H.E. Professor Nurul Hasan, and I call upon the Honourable A.S. Mohale, Minister  of Education and head of the delegation of Lesotho.
4.1 Mr. MOHALE (Lesotho): ;  Mr. President, Chairman of the Executive Board, Director-General, Your Excellencies, dis-  tinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen: Please permit me, on behalf of my delegation and on  my own behalf, to echo the congratulations offered to you, Mr. President, by previous speakers  upon your election to the Presidency of this nineteenth session of the General Conference. Through  you, I wish to commend the Director-General and his colleagues upon the preparation of the Draft  Medium- Term Plan (1977-1982) and the Draft Programme and Budget for 1977-1978 - documents
19 C/4 and 19 C/5, both presented here for consideration. In my judgement, these two documents
680      complement each other in a most judicious and fitting manner, because whil  forth the Organization's general programme of objectives for the n  focuses on the biennium 1977-1978 and provides a detailed breakd thi  perspective; for, were the Draft Medium-Term Plan projected EUR yy  its being overtaken by events would increase and the possibility of its objectives bein Se o  would be made more remote. While, on the one hand, the Draft Programme and A WR
1978 is modest, considering the wide range and scope of the activities which the Or > us  to execute, on the other hand, it might be judged ambitious on account of the te Le rare  which were known at the time of its preparation. erizaiies  While document 19 C/4 sets 17  ext six years, document 19 C/5
4.2 Mr. President, I am gratified to note the pleas made by several s  vail in the deliberations of this session of the General Conference so t  accord, harmony and co-operation. If these are achieved, the period of your presidency will be  noted as a milestone, from which point we re-examined ourselves and consolidated our efforts for  a giant forward leap. For you, Mr. Director-General, the period would be a memorable crowning  of your work in the history of Unesco. From the general policy debate that has gone before, I dis-  cern a general willingness on the part of all of us to establish a happy atmosphere so as to make  this session a successful and historic event. In this exercise, we concur with the statements made  earlier by several speakers on the equality of Member States within Unesco, regardless of their  size or economic might, because it is only through the acceptance of this principle, coupled with  mutual respect among Member States and the realization that small and greater States haveintrinsic  contributions to make, that Unesco can achieve success in its prime objectives. It is gratifying to  note the magnificent efforts the Organization and the Secretariat are making towards the creation  of a new international economic order, which would give a fair and equitable deal to the poorer  countries. Such a new order could accelerate the achievement of Unesco's desired goals, and  would increase the capacity of the developing nations, like Lesotho, to participate more fully in the  activities of the Organization  peakers for tolerance to pre-  hat it may conclude in complete
4.3 My Government whole-heartedly supports the adoption of the proposed activities to promote  equality of opportunity in education in furtherance of the democratization of education; and, specifi-  cally, the proposed resolution 1.14. 2, paragraph 2 (b) on page 21 of the English ‘text of document
19 C/5, which invites Member States ''to contribute to the funds-in-trust administered by Unesco  for the financing of education programmes operated in co-operation with the Organization of African  Unity for refugees and peoples fighting for their independence, for human dignity and human rights,  and against apartheid and all other forms of colonialism, racialism, oppression or foreign domina-  tion". Lesotho, in a modest measure, is affording the right, and equal access, to basic education  to all its citizens, as is evidenced by greater-than-projected enrolments in primary schools for all  school-age children since 1974. There has been an equal expansion in our secondary and vocational  education systems. By the establishment of our National University with new programmes, Lesotho  intends to give full expression to this commitment from primary through to university education.  The literacy rate among adults still grows higher, due to the activities of both governmental and  non- governmental bodies. My Government will strive towards even better results.
4.4 Mr. President, Lesotho has been, from its foundation, a nation that has offered a haven to  refugees. Its founder moulded the nation as a bastion of peace for peoples of many nations against  the warring races in the region at that time. Those warring days have taught the modern Basotho  nation the value of peace and freedom as prerequisites for individual self-fulfilment and the inculca-  tion of a sense of social responsibility among its citizens. Our traditional greeting of "Khotso",  meaning ""Peace'', spoken at any time of the day, is a clear evidence of the highest value we give  to the attainment of harmony, understanding and peace. Lesotho is a veritable oasis of peace and  freedom within a desert of racial animosities. Because of the history and tradition of my people,  we understand more deeply the pangs from which our brothers and sisters surrounding us are suf-  fering, due to the deprivation of their basic and fundamental human rights. It is therefore natural  for us to give assistance and to open our doors to victims of inhuman treatment in that sub-continent  in which we are merged. We shall continue to make available our modest facilities, especially our  educational institutions, not only to political refugees but also to peoples who prefer to be educated  in an atmosphere untramelled by prejudices and discrimination against them on account of the colour  of their skin. Mr. President, while thus making our facilities available to such deprived persons,  we are nevertheless forced to realize that our resources are meagre. We therefore cannot match  our ideal desires and hopes with commensurate material assistance. We would therefore  urge Member States to lend us a helping hand. We further invite all of them to support unequivocably  and unreservedly the resolution 1.14.2 to which I have already referred.
4.5 Mr. President, we should not delude ourselves with the idea that politics con always be Ci  from the affairs of Unesco. It is my belief that the founding States in subscribing to the Gas  of Unesco, hoped for a just political world in which the ideals contained in that ER CU » achieved. A just political world in which every individual is considered born free and equal, ho = enabled to contribute to and enjoy the advantages and benefits of his State, is a sine qua non eu  attainment of the fundamental and basic human rights, the democratization of and equal access  education - indeed for all the tenets which Unesco cherishes and strives to anain, In the I  minority régimes of southern Africa, the denial of these to the Blacks inevitably UE ; Se  consequences of unjust and discriminatory political systems. The recent violent an ve ee  in South Africa, involving initially schoolchildren, snowballed from a grievance re rer  ing education, but whose underlying causes are to be found in the existence of a repr Pp
17 structure based on ethnic groupings. Mr. President, a just political structure has to be establisheq  in Zimbabwe, Namibia and South Africa, a system which recognizes the birthright of each citizen  irrespective of race, to achieve his or her self-fulfilment in respect of the goals Unesco subseribes  to. Lesotho will continue to contribute to the attainment of these goals in a modest and meaningfu]  way, and it invites Member States of Unesco to support all countries in southern Africa in achievin  these goals, inasmuch as they denote a fight for human rights by the deprived inhabitants of the three  countries in question. I concur with the draft resolution submitted by Yugoslavia on access to cultura]  activities by migrant workers living and working in States which are members of Unesco. I consider  it a very significant and reasonable draft resolution. It has our delegation's support but I wish to  add another dimension to it. There are migrant workers of some Member States, like Lesotho, who  live and work in States which are not Member States of this Organization. How to achieve the results  of the draft resolution and apply them to the benefit of these workers should exercise the attention of  this Conference.
4.6 I commend the Director-General on the work he has done in prosecution of resolution 4.2.12  of the eighteenth session of the General Conference, relating to the possibility of transferring  documents from archives constituted within the territory of other countries. Lesotho has estab-  lished its Department of Archives to achieve this aim as well as to assemble those documents that  exist within the country. Further, the National University of Lesotho is establishing an Institute  of Southern African Studies which "will promote and co-ordinate research projects dealing with  southern African matters, provide research, conference, seminar and workshop facilities, and  collect, receive, store and disseminate information ‘and data on Lesotho and the southern African  region''. I invite scholars of Member States to assist Lesotho in this important venture.
4.7 Let me record, Mr. President, my agreement with the proposal to establish an office of the  representative to the southern African countries (Angola, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique,  Namibia, Swaziland and Zambia). My delegation invites Unesco to establish this office in Lesotho,  because it is our belief that not only will our geographical isolation thus be considerably reduced,  but our position can also be utilized in transmitting the benefits of this Organization to those persons  who are presently denied them by reason of unjust political systems. I wish to mention here also  my country's gratitude to Unesco for the immense assistance it has given in the form of expertise;  in the financing of the National Teacher- Training College, which we consider the most successful  of all Unesco projects in the country; and in the mathematics/science and statistics projects at the  National University.
4.8 Mr. President, my delegation wishes to note the personal contribution made by the Director-  General in the reorganization of the Secretariat to achieve greater efficiency and to reflect more  closely the diversity of Unesco's operations. Realizing the difficulties imposed on the Organization  by the global financial recession and inflation, we salute him for his ability in procuring grants-in-  aid and in raising short-term loans from a number of Member States, as well as his success in per-  suading others to make advance payments of contributions. These have enabled the Secretariat to  discharge its essential respoñsibilities. We thank all those Member States also for coming to the  assistance of Unesco in its time of financial distress, and pray that a better financial climate in the  immediate future will enable the Director-General and the Secretariat to achieve most of the targets  in document 19 C/5.
4.9 Mr. President, the conferment of an honorary Degree of Doctor of Literature on the Director-  General of Unesco by the University of Nairobi, your country's highest educational institution, has  expressed, I think, both recognition of the Director-General's work and the hope that under his  leadership much more will be done for human understanding and co-operation.
4.10 My delegation congratulates most warmly all the States which have been admitted into the  Organization during its current session, but more especially Angola and Mozambique, in whose  partnership the States in the southern African region can press forward relentlessly to achieve a  just world for all the peoples of that region. I appreciate particularly the admission to member-  ship of Mozambique and Angola because they come from the same region, where people hate, loathe,  decry and calumniate each other because of the colour of their skin.
4.11 In conclusion, my Government and the people of Lesotho express, through their delegation,  most sincere thanks to the President, Government and people of the Republic of Kenya for hosting  this Conference and enabling Lesotho and her sister countries of Africa to speak from the soil of  Africa for the first time in the thirty years of Unesco's existence, the anniversary of which we  celebrate today. Mr. President, Sir, I thank you.  (Mr. Blankenhorn, Federal Republic of Germany, took the chair.)
5. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Lesotho, and I call upon Dr. Horst Grunert, Vice- Minister  of Foreign Affairs of the German Democratic Republic and head of the delegation of the German  Democratic Republic.
6.1 Mr. GRUNERT (German Democratic Republic):  Mr. President, may I join the speakers before me in expressing our deep and sincere symp  to the people of Indonesia regarding the horrible earthquake that has struck West Irian.  athies
6.2 Having the floor for the first time please permit me, Mr. President  President of our General Conference, H.E. Mr. Toweett, on behalf of the  Democratic Republic onthe occasion ofhis election tothe high functionof Pr  session of the General Conference At the same time we should like to c  President and the Government of Kenya for the cordial welcome given to u  and for the creation of favourable conditions for the holding of this import  teenth session of the General Conference is held on the soil of the continent of Africa the people of  which had been oppressed for centuries but retained their pride and their national values Ht  after a hard struggle for political liberation, the African countries are facing great task  are sure that Unesco can contribute to solving them. SE ete  to congratulate the 17  delegation of the German  esident of the nineteenth  onvey our thanks to the  s in this beautiful country  ant conference. This nine-
6.3 I should also like to thank the Director-General of Unesco, Mr. M'Bow, whom we were re-  cently privileged to receive as our guest in the German Democratic Republic, most cordially for  his tireless and successful work for the noble aims of our Organization.
6.4 Our particular greetings, too, to those States which have become members of Unesco since the  eighteenth session of the General Conference: Surinam, Papua New Guinea, Mozambique, Grenada  Seychelles. From the bottom of our heart we welcome, too, the delegation of the fraternal soctalist  Republic of Viet Nam and the People's Republic of Angola which are in our midst for the first time.
6.5 Mr. President, distinguished delegates, we live in a rapidly changing world. Old, backward,  outlived power structures are falling apart; States with progressive social orders designed to  satisfy the material and spiritual needs of the peoples are developing and are strengthening their  influence on the course of events in the world. The new States which have emerged from the ruins  of centuries-old colonial empires play an increasingly important part in international life. World  developments have a decisive bearing on the possibilities open to an international organization such  as Unesco to act in conformity with the mandate of its Constitution and to give effect to its lofty aims  and purposes. The German Democratic Republic views it as an outstanding result of recent years  that a turn from the policy of confrontation and global brinkmanship to détente and to peaceful, mu-  tually beneficial co-operation has been brought about. We should be glad if these historic develop-  ments were taken more fully into consideration in formulating the fundamental documents of this  Conference. This course is certainly not a simple one, and a State like the German Democratic  Republic, situated as it is at the borderline of the two world systems, is far from idealizing things  and from failing to notice disruptive actions by aggressive circles against détente. Nevertheless,  conditions for enabling international organizations like Unesco to work in the sense of the principles  of peaceful coexistence have become more favourable. That is why we are optimistic in our view of  the future possibilities for Unesco to work for securing peace as the natural form of life for all  peoples. Peace andinternational security are indispensable to the development of education, science  and culture for the benefit of mankind as a whole, and to all social progress.
6.6 Clear and visible evidence of the changed international situation was afforded by the successful  conclusion of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe. That Conference, whose con-  vening and successful course was supported by Unesco through numerous activities, exercises a  positive influence on the situation in Europe and has also proved conducive to the co-operation of the  European peoples in the cultural area. We hope and believe that the positive results of the Confer-  ence also radiate to other regions.
6.7 The circulation of books by foreign authors, the great number of foreign films shown in our  cinemas and on television programmes, the numerous plays by foreign playwrights performed on  the stages of our theatres, indicate that the German Democratic Republic is acting consistently in  the sense of Unesco's purposes and on the Organization's recommendations. It has been and isin-  terested in expanding its cultural relations with other countries. Such relations are conducive to  bringing peoples closer to each other, to promoting friendship among them and strengthening dé-  tente. They are also an expression of the deep respect of our people for the humanistic accomplish-  ments of other peoples.
6.8 This goal is also served by the draft resolution submitted by the Soviet delegation on agenda  item 73, on cultural and scientific co-operation, whose co-sponsor, the German Democratic Re-  public is. It is an important programme document fitted to guide the multifaceted activities of the  Organization towards the right objectives. It supports likewise the projects to promote European  Co-operation envisaged in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1977-1978. Unesco has already  gained wise experience in this field, particularly in holding regional ministerial conferences in  the spheres of education, science and culture - experience which may be significant also for other  regions. The German Democratic Republic attaches great importance to the Second of  Ministers responsible for Science and Technology Policy in the European region (MINESPOL I )  scheduled to be held in 1978. All these activities prove that, with strict adherence to the principles  of the relations between States agreed upon in the Final Act of Helsinki, a wide scope will open up  for expanding mutually advantageous co-operation.
6.9 Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, complementing political détente by military détente is  etl ive | i d even-  the essential step towards a further strengthening of peace. Itis imperative to ik re dy  tually eliminate the material potential for acts of aggression. None of us assum a Sik  and that this goal can be attained soon. But we are convinced that this task is reall 5
683   and that today, owing to the strength of the peace-loving States and all peoples, chances for accom.  plishing it are better than ever. Now, there are people who ask: What has Unesco, the Organiza.  tion responsible for developing co-operation in the intellectual and cultural spheres, to do with that  The German Democratic Republic feels that Unesco cannot close its eyes to this crucial interna.  tional task and that it should employ its great potentials and specific means to serve mankind's  striving for security and peace. This is in conformity with the purpose laid down in the Organiza.  tion's Constitution. It corresponds to the desire of the peoples, who want to live to enforce their  claim to happiness. They know very well that peace is needed for them to enjoy and add to the  treasures of human culture. Therefore, the delegation of the German Democratic Republic wel-  comes the draft resolution on Agenda item 72 submitted by the Soviet delegation. Unabated arma.  ment is making peace, and hence our lives, unstable and insecure. It swallows up huge intellectual  and material resources which cannot be used for creative work for the benefit of humanity. How  much could be done with just a fraction of the funds saved by a cessation of the arms race if itwere  used for the development of education, science and culture, for the construction of schools, for the  printing of textbooks and the training of teachers, for the elimination of illiteracy in the world and  the implementation of everybody's equal right to education. For these reasons alone it is incum-  bent upon Unesco to support all proposals for effective disarmament measures by appropriate ac-  tivities. These ought to arouse world-wide awareness of what is at stake, awakening those who  are indifferent, enlightening those who are ignorant, and giving new hope to those who are despairing,
6.10 Ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased to note also, in Unesco's activities, that the influence  of the peoples which have fought for and gained national liberation has grown immensely and that  these peoples are ever more vigorously insisting on their political and economic rights to strengthen  their independence and to raise their social, economic and cultural standards. In this context we  attach great importance to the results of the Fifth Summit Conference of Non-aligned Countries in  Colombo. We suggest that due consideration be given to them in the work of Unesco.
6.11 The delegation of the German Democratic Republic welcomes the greater efforts Unesco has  made in the struggle against colonialism, racialism and apartheid. Since the eighteenth session of  the General Conference the Organization has launched comprehensive activities to assist the devel-  oping countries in overcoming the colonial heritage in the areas of education, science and culture.  Let us recall the efforts to speed up the drive against illiteracy and to participate in the develop-  ment of national educational systems and in the preservation of the cultural identity of the nationally  liberated countries. We also endorse the proposals made by the Director-General for contributing  towards improved conditions for enabling States to participate in international economic affairs on  an equal footing. As the General Secretary of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany, Erich Honecker,  Chairman of the Council of State of the German Democratic Republic, stated at the Party's Ninth  Congress, the German Democratic Republic will always and without reserve side with the fighters  against imperialism and colonialism and for national liberation. This also is the underlying objec-  tive of the German Democratic Republic's cultural relations with other countries. Faithful to its  internationalistic principles, the German Democratic Republic is anxious to help the developing  countries in overcoming the cultural heritage of colonialism and to make co-operation as close as  possible. Even before achieving political independence, and while still fighting colonial powers, the  national liberation movements were given opportunities to have their cadres trained in the German  Democratic Republic for the period after victory. Thousands have used those opportunities. Since  the liberation of these countries, conditions have continued to improve. Many teachers and other  specialists from the German Democratic Republic are working in developing countries. Between
1973 and 1982 alone, 10, 000 young Vietnamese will be trained as skilled workers in the German  Democratic Republic. Students from 52 African, Asian and Latin American countries received  comprehensive training as coaches, sports scientists or sports instructors at the Leipzig Academy  of Physical Culture and Sport. More than 600 students of economics from developing countries  have so far undergone basic or advanced training at the Higher School of Economics and Planning  in the capital of the German Democratic Republic to serve their countries as scholars or field  experts.
6.12 Besides the training of students and skilled workers, there are co-operation and exchanges of  experience with developing countries in the development of their national educational systems - à  process helping to further the national sovereignty of liberated States in the field of education. Of  the many activities in this area, I just want to mention the Seventh International Pedagogical Col-  loquy in Berlin this September, which was sponsored by the Minister of Education together withthe  German Democratic Republic Commission for Unesco and was attended by 37 delegations from  African, Asian and Latin American countries as well as by representatives of Unesco. It was a  greatpleasure for me to meet again many of the participants in that colloquy at the present Conference.
6.13 Distinguished delegates, the delegation of the German Democratie Republic is seriously con-  cerned about the situation in the Middle East. Once again we feel compelled to raise our voice  against disregard for the rights of the Arab population, including their cultural rights. Unesco's  resolution on the condemnation of the Israeli policy of occupation and on the situation in Jerusalem  must be carried into effect; discrimination against the Arab population by Israel mustbe stopped:  Only when a peaceful, political solution to the Middle East problem is reached in this way, can all  the other questions of this complex be solved in a manner satisfactory to all concerned.
6.14 Mr. President, there is currently much discussion regarding the draft declaration - which is  before us - "on fundamental principles governing the use of the mass media in strengthening peace
684      gadiinternational understanding andiin combating war propaganda, racialism and aparth id" i  said that the freedom of the press is impaired by the declaration. The delegation 2 th . Itis  Democratic Republic holds a different opinion. We all know about the enormous at ; ps  media. Their influence can be positive; it can also - and we experience it often 29 Be b ve  tive. Our generation has not forgotten the war-mongering of the fascist press the Le = n ga-  hatred of our neighbours in the East and in the West, the defamation of people of SE to  and we all know how terrible the consequences were. The delegation of the German SE  Republic is convinced that the draft declaration is in accordance with the mandate of Teron  stitution and should therefore be supported. The German Democratic Republic will also contin ig  its co-operation with the developing countries and support them in overcoming the colonial ee  in the field of the? mass media.  age
6.15 The German Democratic Republic proceeds from the axiom that the  ence does not remove the basic contradictions between socialism and im  fact must also be reflected in the spiritual life of our days, and nobody,  want an organization such as Unesco, the major international organizati  to stand aloof from the spiritual struggle and the search for the right answer to the vital issues fac-  ing mankind. The German Democratic Republic believes, however, that this spiritual struggle, the  necessity of which it recognizes, should serve peace and understanding and should be conducted in a  climate of trust and respect between peoples. The German Democratic Republic resolutely condemns  all attempts to wage this struggle by means of ideological subversion and psychological warfare re-  lying on lies, slander and chauvinism.  policy of peaceful coexist-  perialism. Naturally, this  for example, can expect or  on in the ideological sphere,
6.16 Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, in the documents before us much attention is also given -  and properly so - to questions of ensuring human rights. “In this context it has to be emphasized that  the preservation of peace is a prerequisite for the realization of all human rights. The right to live  in peace was and is the most important of all human rights. The policy of the socialist States is gov-  erned by concern for the realization of this fundamental human right. The final elimination of col-  onialism, racialism and apartheid represents a precondition, for many millions of people, particu-  larly on this continent where our Conference is being held, for the exercise of their human rights.  The German Democratic Republic also protests resolutely here against the policy of oppression in  South Africa, against the continuation of political terror in South Korea, and against the massive  violations of human rights in Chile. Among fundamental human rights is also the right to live in  conditions of social security; particularly the right to work, to education and to recreation, and  equality for man and woman in all spheres of public life. The experiences of the socialist countries  in creating such social conditions as provide a material guarantee enabling everybody to enjoy funda-  mental political and social rights deserve to be reflected in the Conference documents.
6.17 Mr. President, ‘we wish to extend our gratitude and appreciation to the Director-General for  preparing the Draft Medium- Term Plan which we regard as an attempt to improve the operation of  the Organization on the basis of longer terms of planning by working our strategic guidelines. While  we are in favour of continuing such longer-term planning, we wish to reaffirm our position thatit is  necessary to continue work on this document all the time and to consider new findings. We have  taken note with great satisfaction of the successful endeavours of the Director-General to involve  Member States more actively in the preparatory stages of basic documents. In document 19 C/5  we particularly approve the section on education. We welcome and strongly support all projects  serving to implement the equal right to education for all, irrespective of race, sex or religion, and  to eliminate all forms of discrimination in education. We judge the results in the field of sciences  by the extent to which they can be brought to serve peace and improve human material and cultural  standards and to prevent any misuse of science. In view of its Constitution and its potentialities,  we consider that Unesco is called upon to make an effective contribution to the implementation of  the Declaration on the Use of Scientific and Technological Progress in the Interests of Peace and  for the Benefit of Mankind adopted at the thirtieth session of the United Nations General Assembly.
6.18 The German Democratic Republic highly values the results Unesco has achieved in carrying  out major international programmes in the fields of ecology, hydrology, geology and i  Itsupports all efforts to give the social sciences their due place. The German Democratic a  also welcomes the proposal made by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics for sa ÿ  European conferences on environmental protection and energy, and it hopes that Unesco will do  what it can to support and further this important initiative of the Soviet Union.
6.19 Unesco deserves high commendation for its efforts to give all sections of each and every  people access to the treasures of hational and world culture and to promote international cultural ;  co-operation and the exchange of outstanding works of art of the past and the present, in = eur  of peace, friendship, understanding among the peoples and the enrichment of all nationa = 7 ;  May I underline inthis connection, the valuable results of the First World Conference and o 2  regional ministerial conferences. We feel that a second world conference in the near oh Oy  give a strong impetus to continued and intensified international cultural co-operation, an = es  like to communicate to the General Conference the willingness of the Germes Democratic ep  to host the second world conference on cultural policy in 1980 or 1981 in Berlin.
5 i ars 6.20 Mr. President, we celebrate today the thirtieth anniversary of Unesco. In ee  of its existence Unesco has recorded great achievements. Under the impression o  :  ith its  International situation and resisting many attacks, Unesco has come to cope ever DES EE
17 constitutional tasks. But many things remain to be done. Unesco is confronted with many grave  problems, and strength, patience and goodwill are required to solve them. In implementing its  lofty aims Unesco can always rely on the co-operation of the German Democratic Republic. Thank  you, Mr. President.
7. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of the German Democratic Republic.  ANNOUNCEMENT CONCERNING THE CELEBRATION OF THE THIRTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF  UNESCO  COMMUNICATION RELATIVE A LA CELEBRATION DU TRENTIEME ANNIVERSAIRE DE L'UNESCO  COMUNICACION RELATIVA A LA CELEBRACION DEL TRIGESIMO ANIVERSARIO DE LA UNESCO  COOBIIEHUE OTHOCHUTEJIFHO IIPA3IHOBAHH5 TPHIIATOH I"ONOBIIAHBI IOHECKO  Sina! SLE lo die GÈNE ye ÉD Jim VN 5 Li oe
8. The PRESIDENT:  Before adjourning the meeting, ladies and gentlemen, I will call upon the Secretary to make an  announcement.
9. Le SECRETAIRE. -  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais tout d'abord indiquer que le recueil que vous avez  devant vous contient les messages reçus par le Secrétariat jusqu'à 19 heures hier soir. Nous con-  tinuons à recevoir des messages - il y en a déjà eu plusieurs ce matin - et nous avons l'intention  d'en continuer la publication au fur et à mesure de leur réception. Ces messages seront publiés à  Paris sous la forme d'un volume qui ressemblera à celui qui est paru à l'occasion du vingt-  cinquième anniversaire de l'Organisation. Enfin, Monsieur le Président, je voudrais demander  aux délégués de ne pas quitter la salle où la cérémonie solennelle de célébration du trentième  anniversaire de l'Unesco va commencer dans quelques minutes. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
10. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 10.35 a.m.  La séance est levée à 10 h. 35  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 10.35