Tenth plenary meeting
1 November 1976 at 10 a.m.  President: Mr. TOWEETT (Kenya)  later: Mr. AGUIRRE (Uruguay)  Dixième séance plénière  ler novembre 1976 à 10 heures  Président : M. TOWEETT (Kenya)  puis : M. AGUIRRE (Uruguay)  Décima sesion plenaria
1 uos6ps 1976 r. B 10 u.  Iipencenarens: r-u TOYOTT (Keuus)
5 ull do la) Ld]  ce Lo 6 alll as JAYV (WY opti / pmdss )  ( LES ) comps aed): Gut)  (Slomnl) Spm! andl  ELECTION OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE DRAFTING AND NEGOTIATION GROUP/ELECTION DU  PRESIDENT DU GROUPE DE REDACTION ET DE NEGOCIATION/ELECCION DEL PRESIDENTE  DEL GRUPO DE REDACCION Y NEGOCIACION/ BbIEOPH! IPEICEIATENS DPYIIBI IO  PEJAKTHPOBAHHD H COT JIACOBAHUIO rl A rue ae PE
1. The PRESIDENT:  Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, My first duty today is to transform the plenary into a  meeting of the Nominations Committee and to call on the Chairman of the Nominations Committee  to take the chair,  (The plenary meeting was suspended and the Chairman of the Nominations Committee took the  chair, )
2. M. AGBLEMAGNON (Togo), (président du Comité des candidatures). -  Merci, Monsieur le Président, ce matin, vous le savez, le Conseil exécutif s'est réuni en  séance privée. Je donne la parole au président du Conseil exécutif, M. Wynter.
3.1 Mr, WYNTER (Jamaica), Chairman of the Executive Board:  Mr. President of the Conference, may I wish you good morning and now may I address the  Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
3.2 Mr. Chairman of the Nominations Committee, I have the honour on behalf of the Executive  Board to bring to your attention a recommendation from the Board in respect of the Drafting and  Negotiation Group which was set up last week by the General Conference in plenary and the Member  States of which are shown on pages 2 and 3 of today's Journal, The Executive Board met this morn-  ing in pursuance of Rule 30 of the Rules of Procedure, in order to make a report to the Nominations  Committee recommending the name of a person to chair the committee of the Conterence known as  the Drafting and Negotiation Group. Mr, President, the Executive Board decided unanimously, by  acclamation, to recommend that the representative of the Republic of Benin on the Drafting and  Negotiation Group, Mr. Boissier-Palun, be elected Chairman of the Group, Mr, Boissier-Palun  has been a member of the Executive Board and was the Chairman of the Executive Board's Special  Committee, He has been very much involved in assisting the Executive Board to come to its very  wide consensus of agreement on the proposal to the Conference concerning the establishment of a  Drafting and Negotiation Group, its composition and its working methods, which the plenary will be  discussing soon, Consequently the Board has every confidence, Mr, Chairman of the Nominations  Committee, in the ability of Mr, Boissier-Palun to undertake this delicate and important task on  behalf of the General Conference. I therefore have pleasure in submitting to the Nominations Com-
455   mittee the unanimous recommendation of the Executive Board that Mr, Boissier-Palun of Benin  appointed Chairman of the Drafting and Negotiation Group. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, 2
4.1 M. AGBLEMAGNON (Togo), (président du Comité des candidatures). =!  Je remercie le Président du Conseil exécutif. Vous avez entendu la proposition qui vient drat  faite ; la recommandation unanime du Conseil est de proposer la candidature de S. Exc, M. en  Boissier-Palun de la République populaire du Bénin, à la présidence du Groupe de rédaction et de  négociation. Mais avant de soumettre cette proposition à votre approbation, j'aimerais Savoir si  un Etat membre désire proposer une autre candidature. Je ne vois aucune main se lever ; par con.  séquent, je soumets à l'approbation formelle du Comité la candidature de M. Léon Boissier-Palyn  au poste de président du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation.  (L'Assemblée signifie son approbation par des applaudissements)
4.2 Je vous remercie d'avoir approuvé cette candidature par acclamation comme l'a fait ce matin  le Conseil lui-même, Je profite de cette occasion pour féliciter mon collègue et ami, M. Boissier.  Palun, de cette confiance qui lui est témoignée et qui honore toute l'Afrique. Merci, Monsieur le  Président.
4,3 J'ajourne maintenant la séance du Comité des candidatures.  (Mr. Toweett resumed the chair and the plenary meeting resumed, )  ORGANIZATION OF THE WORK OF THE NINETEENTH SESSION OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE/  ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX DE LA DIX-NEUVIEME SESSION DE LA CONFERENCE  GENERALE/ORGANIZACION DE LOS TRABAJOS DE LA 19a REUNION DE LA CONFERENCIA  GENERAL/ OPTAHH3AIH4 PABOTEI EBATHANHATOH CECCHH TEHEPAJNBHOH KOHSEPEHIH  (pe) pad) sgl be ban) 39 al) ll Es
5, The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary meeting will now continue with the discussion of item 6 of  the agenda, specifically of document 19 C/2 Add., paragraphs 4-14. May I call on the delegate of  China to speak,
6.1 Mr, HU SHA (China) (Speech delivered in Chinese, English text based on simultaneous  interpretation):  Mr, President, with regard to the working methods of the Drafting and Negotiation Group, the  Chinese delegation would like to make some observations, The membership of our Organization  has now reached 140 and the number of the major world issues which interest our Organization and  which the General Conference should discuss and examine is constantly growing. In order to en-  hance the efficiency and co-ordination of the work of our General Conference and to avoid as far as  possible lengthy plenary meetings, it is necessary, in our view to set up a body similar in nature  to a working group so that certain important issues which are of common concern to a vast number  of Member States, in particular the Third World countries, can be discussed and examined more  fully and thoroughly. This body can bring together those views on which a consensus has been  reached, clarify those views which differ on matters of principle, and submit them afterwards to  the General Conference for discussion,
6.2 In particular, having regard to the way in which certain draft resolutions were adopted at the  eighteenth session of the General Conference, it would be advisable to set up a negotiation body  composed of representatives of Member States of various regions in order to prevent the super-  powers from manipulating the General Conference, For this reason, the Chinese delegation, after  careful study and in the light of the present situation, has decided to support the setting up of the  Drafting and Negotiation Group and to endorse the recommendations on its principles submitted by  the Executive Board. We also support the recommendations on the working methods of this group  contained in document 19 C/2 Add. since it has crystallized the result of the discussions of the  Executive Board,
6.3 In the course of discussions on all questions in this group, all kinds of opinions should be res-  pected. Consensus, if possible, can be reached on views held in common and divergencies, if a;  should be fully elucidated and, if this is requested, could be reserved, so that the spirit of a thor-  ough democratic consultation can be brought out in this group. In carrying out its functions, the  group should also keep close contacts with the great number of Member States that are not mem-  bers of the group and have constant consultations with them in order to ascertain their opinions  and demands, so as to reflect fully the just aspirations of the vast number of Member States, part:  cularly those of the Third World countries, Thank you, Mr, President.
7. The PRESIDENT:  I call on the Chairman of the Executive Board,
8.1 Mr. WYNTER (Jamaica), Chairman of the Executive Board:  Mr, President, I merely wish to say that the working methods suggested in paragraphs 4 to
14 of document 19 C/2 Add, to which you have referred, were the subject of long discussions at  the Executive Board's current session about three weeks ago at the Paris Headquarters. They  were thoroughly examined and the Board set up a negotiation group of its own, chaired by  Mr, Boissier-Palun, with five other members representing the different groups. They came back  with the document which is before the Conference. The Board then discussed it and, at the end  of the 40 members, 37 were in favour, none against, with one abstention, As the Chairman of the  Board does not vote, that represented almost the entire voting power of the Executive Board,  Moreover, the proposed working methods represent an attempt to balance all the different points  of view. The Board was aware of the fact that this was an experimental proposal to the Conference  and therefore wanted to be very careful that the experiment should be successful, That is why the  working methods in paragraphs 4 to 14 were proposed,
8.2 Now, Mr. President, since the first meeting of the General Committee last week, at the start  of this Conference, the General Committee has itself been giving consideration to the working  methods. I happen to know some delegations have been meeting to look at this thoroughly, and it  is possible, Mr, President, that this draft may now be accepted after thorough examination, How-  ever, I should like to say, with the authority vested in me by the other members of the Board, that  we do believe that the working methods set out in paragraphs 4 to 14 could facilitate the work ofthe  group and thus enable it to help the Conference in its lofty tasks at this session, I hope that a con-  sensus, similar to that which existed in the Board in discussing this matter, will now reveal itself  in the plenary meeting of the Conference. Ihave the honour and the privilege to present the Board's  proposals on the working methods in paragraphs 4 to 14 of document 19 C/2 Add. Thank you,  Mr, President.
9, The PRESIDENT:  Are there any other speakers please? The delegate of Sudan has the floor,  ((OVoseud) ) Cong plod! dlVis wud! 9.  cs éd) gd Slt, LA ns 2133801 3 le la Na pmsl GT dl Gut IT ce 1S  Ve BAI 13e Al ppp Wa) hm dn, Bola 35301 AA 5 a 0, Bp idly Boel gi atl Lie sgl) Se Bala pn dy Lidl Blend) Gi BALAI GF 4 La SLAY nS Gung LS 6 ua]  odo J) 0 Un S835 clay ola) ce dia) 15 lo SL ple gall da lala | ce 515 ole  or mS he pin BL Wad sas YEA em ol pe 156. ed PIS Ge prb I 5 IIS At ial Co hed ob all il of Gl ply i a J eo LAN SNPS PAPVIRSA. ch I PRE PRT gel OC NT WSN SVP UMS A ENS ELI SER ACS  cont du USE + pial) pu SW lan Jie isl LS Sms + adi PS Ga ré Wl 3
(10) Mr. EL HAJ YUSIF (Sudan) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr, President, I should like to comment on the terms of reference of the Drafting and  Negotiation Group, as set out in the paragraphs which have been mentioned by the Chairman of the Execu-  tive Board, and particularly on paragraph 4 concerning referral of questions to the group, Like many  delegates here, I feel that questions should be referred to the Drafting and Negotiation Group by the Gen-  eral Committee on the basis of a decision by the plenary meeting of the General Conference or by the  Commissions, Yet, it is stated in the same paragraph that the General Committee may refer questions  to the group on its own initiative. We feel that this provision serves no purpose, and is even likely to  complicate matters in many cases. Therefore, our view is that the General Conference should authorize  the General Committee to refer questions to the Drafting and Negotiation Group on the proposal of the plen-  ary meeting or of the Commissions, and not on its own initiative, We believe that many delegations share  this view, Thank you, Mr, President.
11, The PRESIDENT:  I call on the delegate of Mauritania,  Us A rt ee  V5 Bra WV Sayama? I AS IER ES ol ol 85 ale ped I 6 ene 1S  . os A 5 ew
(12) Mr. OULD SIDI BABA (Mauritania) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr, President, I simply wish to second the proposal made by the head of the Sudanese  delegation and the Chairman of the Arab Group. Thank you, Mr. President,
13. The PRESIDENT:  The head of the delegation of Ethiopia has the floor.
14, Mr, DAGNE iopia): ]  Thank you, pe The Ethiopian delegation is satisfied with'the explanation given  by the Director-General and the Chairman of the Executive Board on the role of the Drafting and  Negotiation Group. The Drafting and Negotiation Group, as we understand it, is a working group  that facilitates the work of the General Conference which is sovereign, As the Drafting and Nego-
10 tiation Group is under the authority of the General Conference and works closely with the various  organs of the Conference, the Ethiopian delegation fully supports the establishment of the Draft.  ing and Negotiation Group and the adoption of the working methods as stated in paragraphs 4 to 14  of document 19 C/2 Add, Thank you, Mr, President,
15, The PRESIDENT:  I call on the head of the delegation of Benin to speak on behalf of the African group,
16.1 M. BOISSIER-PALUN (Bénin), (président du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation), -  Monsieur le Président, j'interviens en qualité de président du groupe africain, et en accord  avec le chef de ma délégation, pour indiquer & la Conférence générale que le groupe africain et le  groupe arabe se sont réunis en comité de liaison pour examiner les différentes appréhensions que  chaque groupe pouvait avoir à propos de ce texte.
16.2 Les deux groupes se sont mis d'accord pour recommander l'adoption du texte tel qu'il vous  est présenté, à l'exception d'un petit amendement que j'accepte d'autant plus volontiers que j'ai  présidé le groupe de travail qui a rédigé ce texte et que j'exprime l'opinion unanime des membres  du groupe africain et du groupe arabe. Cet amendement consiste à supprimer, au paragraphe 4, le  dernier membre de phrase, "soit sur l'initiative du Bureau lui-méme". Le texte du paragraphe 4  demeure donc tel quel, sauf ces mots.
16.3 Voilà la proposition concrète que je suis chargé de présenter à la plénière, en recommandant  à tous nos collègues d'adopter le reste du texte sans aucun changement. Merci, Monsieur le  Président.
17. The PRESIDENT:  May I call on the head of the delegation of the German Democratic Republic, please,
18.1 Mr. HEINZE (German Democratic Republic):  Thank you, Mr, President. First of all I should like to congratulate Mr, Boissier-Palun,  We have so often worked together under his able chairmanship in the Executive Board, I should  like to ask Mr, Boissier-Palun, through you, Mr. President, whether it might not be advisable to  include a proposal to the effect that - this is the wording: "Upon its constitution, or thereafter,  the Drafting and Negotiation Group shall fix a date on which questions, which might be referred to  it by the plenary session of the General Conference, or by the Commissions, will be dealt with by  the Group and a date on which they are to be submitted to the plenary session",
18.2 Mr. President, we make this proposal or recommendation recalling the end of the eighteenth  session of the General Conference when time ran out for discussing important issues, and the  session even had to be prolonged, Thus the Drafting and Negotiation Group should have completed  the bulk of its work by the time the second part of the plenary session is to begin, about
22 November, and should be able to submit its results to the plenary session of the General Conier-  ence in due time to allow for discussion,
19, The PRESIDENT:  May I call on the head of the delegation of Iraq.  ( a8, alla, open] ) Hymne dee seal ka  CS MAILS A Gaye ii as gt) £15) le 550 Get I de U2
(20) Mr. MAHJOUB (Iraq) (Translation from the Arabic): .  Thank you, Mr. President. I second the proposal made by the head of the African Group, to which I  have nothing to add. Thank you.
21, The PRESIDENT:  Next, may I call on the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
22.1 P-u CTEIEHKO (Coos CoseTckux Counanueruueckux PecnyOJnK):  T-u Mpegcexarenb, nenerars KoudepeHuun, No-BHAHMOMY, SHAT, YTO COBETCKas Aejerauid  HMella HeKOTOPpHE COMHEHHA O eJleCOO0pasHOCTH co3nanus oToù Dpynner. OnHako, yduThBasd, 40  nonasisioumee 60AbLUHCTBO CTpaH HW Denepanbusi qupeKTOp BLCKasaïnu coobpakeHus O xeraTeJrBHOCTH  cosmauns I'pynnsl, KoTopas nONXHAa NOMOYL pabore Koudepenunu, Mb! HOATEPXHBAEM 9TO mpe n1oxeHlié.  Y Hac, omHaKO, eCTh HEKOTOPHE 3aMeuaHus. DTH 3aMedYaHusl KaCaloTCH T/IaBHBIM 00pasoM OrpaHWier  HHS BO BpeMeHHU paboTsl oToñ Dpynns pu paccmorpeunn €10 OT He IbHBIX NPOEKTOB, KOTOPHE By myT eH  nepenaBaTbCs, WIM OTIENBHEX PeKOMeHaanui. Mer cuuTann Obl Ierrecoo0pasHeIM, YTOOH B myHKT 5  pasznena o Merozax paboTs nokyMeura 19 C/2 Add. 6blau BHECeHb HEKOTOphle MONpaBKH, B YacrHor  CTH MNOJNOXeHHE O TOM, YTO NaHHas l'pyoma paccmarpuBaer n npexcTaBnser CBOU peKOMeHJauHH on 7  NPOEKTHl pesonoIni B TeueHne, CKaXeM, NByX-Tpex AHeH, ro»! He saTsruBanack paGora, Ecrb ona  CeHue, 4ro, ec I'pynna MoXeT He NOCTUTHYTh KOHCEHCyCa, TO BCI pa6ory, KOTOpyIo Aerand Tpyn-  Na B NpenblAylue IHU, NPHAETCsi CHOBA MOBTOPUTH Ha MIeHyMe, uTo, Ge3yClIOBHO, 3aTAHET paGoTy.
22.2 Hrax, Ms npexnaraem cHenylomme nonpaBkn K nyukTy 5: BCTABUTH nonoxenne O TOM, 470 Lu  Ha paccMaTpuBaeT NpenloxeHNa U PeKOMEHZaLui B ABYX- TpPeXAHEeBHbIH cpok'', a TaKkxe aera
458      auth CHOBO ""Bcex" n cIOoBa "'rpe6y Oum npexBapurerbHoro cornacorauna!"  nyouy 10 penakuno sTroro nyHkTa: "B obssanHoCTh Ppynns! no PE IaKTHPOBAHUIO H COTJIaCOBAHUI BXO AUT nogroroBKka H npefcTaBjyieHue, He Gonee ueMm B ABYX- TpexIHeBHBHÀ CPpoK, msi pemennus Tene SES  xoudepeHunn Ha ee MIeHAPHEX SACEHAHHAX NPOEKTOB pesonouN no y a< ram KOTOprIE bd aBje =  us eñ ans uaydenus'. B nyukT 7 MBI Tak Xe NpenIaraem BHeCTH HeGONBMOe ane a a a  KIOYATH CHOBA: ""KOTOPEHIM GyayT mopyueHs! Gonee mupoxne uccnenosauusa'. Ra TES GRR sara pass  ecu ee He HCKI0YHTb, Kak Obl YSAKOHNBAET SATHXKY B pabore sroñ Dpynnsr. Ms Tak ke cuuTaem ; ,  uro Dpynma nonxHa Oba Gb SaKOHYHTB CBOW PaboTy sa Hexen no 3aKpkhITHA Kond®epeuuun. Bor ra-  KkoBs! HAIIK COOOpaxXeHH H 3aMedaHus mo 19 G/2 Add.  ; T.€. Mbl NpenlaraeMm cljie-
(22.1) Mr. STETSENKO (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr, President, delegates will be aware that the Soviet delegation had some doubts about the advis-  ability of setting up this group, but as the overwhelming majority of countries and the Director-General  have expressed their views in favour of establishing the group which is to assist the work of the Confer-  ence, we support this proposal. We nevertheless have some remarks to make. These chiefly concern a  time limit to be imposed on consideration by this group of the individual drafts referred to it, or its con-  sideration of individual recommendations. It would be appropriate in our view if certain amendments were  made to paragraph 5 of the section in document 19 C/2 Add. concerning working methods, in particular a  statement to the effect that the group should discuss and submit its recommendations or draft resolutions  within, say, two or three days so that work is not delayed. It is to be fearedthat, if the group is unable to  reach a consensus, all the work which it has done in previous days will have to be repeated once more in  plenary meeting, which will undoubtedly delay proceedings.
(22.2) We therefore suggest the following amendments to paragraph 5. A statement should be included to  the effect that the group shall consider suggestions and recommendations for a period of two to three days,  and likewise, the word "any" and the words "calling for preliminary negotiations shall be deleted. In  other words, we are proposing that this paragraph should read as follows: ''The Drafting and Negotiation  Group shall be responsible for preparing and submitting to the General Conference for decision in plenary  meeting draft resolutions on items which have been referred to it for study, within a period of not more  than two or three days''. We also suggest that a small change should be made in paragraph 7 consisting in  the deletion of the words ‘to carry out fuller investigations'. If this phrase is not deleted, it virtually  endorses delay in the proceedings of this group. We also feel that the group should complete its work a  week before the ending of the Conference. Those are our observations and recommendations on 19 C/2 Add.
23. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Before this debate goes on to deal with other points and other para-  graphs, I should like to call on Mr, Boissier-Palun to reply to the points raised by the head of the  delegation of the German Democratic Republic,
24.1 M. BOISSIER-PALUN (Bénin), (président du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation). -  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Si j'ai bien compris les observations présentées, il s'agit, dans  l'esprit des orateurs qui ont pris la parole, d'une part, d'être rassurés sur les limites dans le  temps de la compétence du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation et, d'autre part, de faire en sorte  qu'il n'y ait pas d'équivoque sur la manière dont le Groupe sera saisi, En effet, l'un des orateurs  a proposé de supprimer au paragraphe 5 le mot "tous" dans la phrase "... tous projets de résolu-  tions sur les points nécessitant des négociations préalables... ", Ces observations ont déjà été  présentées au Conseil exécutif, qui les a examinées, et sa décision 6.2 qui apparaît dans ce docu-  ment est le résultat d'un accord unanime de tous ses membres, chacun ayant acquis la conviction  que les formules utilisées ne cachaient aucune ambiguïté. Cela dit, si l'on s'inquiète du temps que  mettra le Groupe de rédaction et de négociation pour examiner les problèmes dont il est saisi, je  pense que l'on peut se rassurer en examinant attentivement le texte et en se référant à la pratique  qui a toujours été suivie dans les travaux des organes de l'Unesco depuis que je participe à ces tra-  vaux. En effet, le Groupe de rédaction et de négociation, ainsi que cela ressort des documents, n'a  été créé que pour faciliter les travaux de la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale : il  n'aura pas d'existence après la fin de la session.
24.2 Ma deuxième observation sera pour faire remarquer que, selon le texte, le président du  Groupe de rédaction et de négociation siégera au Bureau et qu'il rendra compte périodiquement à  celui-ci de l'état d'avancement des travaux du Groupe. Le Bureau a donc, à tout moment, les in-  formations nécessaires pour contrôler l'avancement des travaux, pour suggérer éventuellement  de les accélérer et pour décider de la date à laquelle les questions soumises au Groupe devront  être soumises à la plénière pour examen et décision, Il n'y a donc là non plus aucune crainte à  avoir,
24.3 .D'autre part, l'organisation de nos travaux est telle que le Secrétariat lui-même demande à  toutes les commissions - et cela s'appliquera au Groupe - de respecter un certain délai pour que  la plénière puisse être saisie des documents requis. Demander que les travaux du Groupe soient  obligatoirement terminés huit jours avant la fin de la session de la Conférence générale, c'est donc  énoncer, à mon sens, une évidènce. Aucune commission, aucun groupe, ne pourrait prolonger ses  travaux au-delà de ce délai, si l'on veut que la plénière puisse être saisie par le Secrétariat de  tous les documents nécessaires à l'examen des questions et à la prise des décisions qui s'imposent.  Nous avons examiné toutes ces observations en détail, d'abord au sein du groupe de travail du Con-  seil exécutif qui a préparé le texte, ensuite au cours des séances plénières du ‘Conseil exécutif, et  enfin ici, à l'occasion de différentes conversations entre les groupes géographiques. A ce propos,  je vous ai indiqué tout à l'heure, au sujet des appréhensions que le groupe africain et le groupe  arabe avaient sur certaines dispositions de ce texte, que toutes les équivoques ont été levées.
24.4 En ce qui concerne la suppression d'une partie du paragraphe 5 relatif au rôle du Groupe  "le Groupe de rédaction et de négociation a pour charge de préparer et de soumettre à la décision  de la Conférence générale en séance plénière tous projets de résolutions sur les points nécessitant  des négociations préalables et dont l'étude lui aura été renvoyée', je pense qu'il faut garder entiè.  rement ce texte et non pas le tronquer en supprimant sa dernière partie. Il s'agit bien de tous les  projets dont l'étude aura été renvoyée au Groupe. On ne peut pas dire que le Groupe a pouvoir de  refuser un travail que la plénière lui demande. Le Groupe a l'obligation, lorsqu'en séance plénière  la Conférence générale en a décidé ainsi, d'examiner une question qui lui a été renvoyée. I] s'agit  donc de toutes les questions sans exception que la Conférence générale aura décidé de renvoyer au  Groupe pour étude préparatoire.
24. 5 Voilà les observations que je crois devoir faire. Je demande à la Conférence générale de ne  pas adopter les propositions d'amendements qui sont présentées et, si vous me permettez de parler  maintenant au nom de la délégation du Bénin, je propose formellement de clore le débat sur ce point  et de nous prononcer sur le texte. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
25.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the closure has been moved, Rule 76 (Moving  the closure) authorizes me to allow two speakers to speak against the closure, As no delegation  wishes to speak against the closure, I shall put the motion to the vote.  (Voting was by show of hands. )
25,2 The result of the vote is as follows: 83 votes in favour, none against and 10 abstentions,
25,3 Itherefore declare the debate closed.
25.4 Ladies and gentlemen, we now take up the proposed amendments, the first of which was in  connection with paragraph 4, where it was suggested that certain words be removed, These words,  in the English version, were "'on the initiative of the General Committee itself". I now call on the  Chairman of the Executive Board to say something on that particular proposal,
26. Mr. WYNTER (Jamaica), Chairman of the Executive Board:  Mr. President, I simply wish to say that the Board had foreseen the possibility of the plenary  meeting or the Commissions or the General Committee itself referring items, But since last week,  Mr, President, there seems to have been a lot of discussion among delegations as to whether the  third of these possibilities - that is of the General Committee itself referring items - should con-  tinue to exist. There seems to be developing a consensus within the Conference that the third possi-  bility should no longer exist, and I feel that I could say on behalf of my colleagues in the Executive  Board that there would certainly be no objection if there is a consensus among members concern-  ing that possibility: although, of course, when we discussed it in the Board we did feel that this  was a necessary machinery, Nevertheless, in view of what we have heard this morning as to the  unanimity among a large number of groups, Mr. President, it would be difficult for me, on bekali  of the Board, to resist any such consensus.
27.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard from the Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr, Wynter,  that from his point of view, there does not seem to be much controversy over the proposed removal  from paragraph 4 of the words ''or on the initiative of the General Committee itself", May I now  ask if there are any objections to their removal? There are no objections. The words are there-  fore deleted.
27.2 The next amendment, from the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, came to  us in the Russian language. The Secretary of the Conference will present it to you in Russian,
28. CEKPETAPB:  T'-u Mpexcemarenb, nonpaska CoseTckoro Coosa KacaeTcs myHKTa 5. 51 6yny MegnenHo 4HTaTb  STOT MYHKT: "B 06s3aHHOCTH Dpyrmer MO pe Jak TUPOBAHUIO H COrlaCoBaHHD BXOAWUT MOATOTOBKA H npelr  crasneune ...'". WHmeuno snecb cIenyer nonparka: "He Goree “em B AByX- TpexIHeBHHH CPOK ut  naree Npoxonxaerc4a TEKCT MyHKTa 5: "aix pemenna Deneparbnoïñ Kon®epeHunu Ha ee MIeHaPHAX sace-  NaHH4ax ...!. Ilocne yero BHYEPKUBAeTCs CHOBO "BCex" u NpononxaeTC4 ONATB TEKCT NYHKTA 5: "por  €KTOB pesoniouuH mo NyHKTaM", a qaree BhIYepKuBaeTcs: "TpebyoMuM Npe ABAPUTEIbHOTO coraacosa”  Hus", Tak 4To Ppasa 3akaHUYMBAETCs Tak: ". . . npoexroB pesoniounñ no MyHKTaM, KOTOPHE 6pLIH HA”  npaBJieHsl el nas usydeHus". Cnacubo, r-u [IpencenaTens.
(28) The SECRETARY (Translation from the Russian):  Mr, President, the amendment of the Soviet Union concerns paragraph 5. I shall read this paragraph  slowly: "The Drafting and Negotiation Group shall be responsible for preparing and submitting to the Gen-  eral Conference for decision in plenary meeting'', and one amendment comes here with the deletion of the  word "'any'', The text then continues with the words "draft resolutions on items! and then the words call-  ing for preliminary negotiations! are deleted and the text continues "which have been referred to it for  study", followed by the addition "within a period of not more than two or three days'', Thank you,  Mr, President,
99, The PRESIDENT:  May I call on the Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr. Wynter, to speak on the proposed  amendment.  E
30, Mr. WYNTER (Jamaica), Chairman of the Executive Board:  Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Board, may I echo the appeal made by Mr, Boissier-Palun to  the Soviet delegation, not to proceed with this amendment, but to withdraw it. I think this amend-  ment would indicate a lack of confidence in the 25 Member States which have been selected to form this group, and also a lack of confidence in the Chairman of the group. I am quite certain that our  Soviet colleagues do not intend to indicate a lack of confidence, but to lay down rigid timetables  would remove that area of flexibility which the Drafting and Negotiation Group must be allowed to  work in, It is an experiment, and what is important is that consensus be arrived at. We have  heard the assurance of the Chairman of the group that the point made by the Soviet delegation will  be taken into account. I therefore ask, formally, through you, Mr. President, that the Soviet  delegation consider withdrawing this amendment in view of the fact that the points of view expressed  are now on the record, and that these will be taken into consideration by the group itself, Thank  you, Mr, President.
31, The PRESIDENT:  I would like to ask the delegate of the Soviet Union to indicate whether he still maintains his  proposal, I give the floor to the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
32. F-u CTEIIEHKO (Cons CoBeTckux Comnannernueekux Pecny©1ux):  T'-u Mpexcemarerb, 4 Xo4y AaTh HeGONbIHE Pa3bsACHEHWS MO MOBOAY NONPABOK, KOTOPHE OblIH BHE-  ceHsl OT HMeHH nenèraunn Coserckoro Coosa. Jeo He B TOM, YTO Mb! BEIpaXaeM KaKoe-TO He 1oBepue  Ipexcenareni sroñ I'pynnbl, peub uaeT O TOM, YT06K paboTa oroñ D'pynns Grrna 7erko HaïaxeHa,  YTO06»! pelleHue BOMPOCOB He 3aTATUBAJOCh AO CHenyiomeñ l'enepanbuoñ KoufepeHuuu. 51 qyman, 4To  Halle npexroxenne BIOJHEe ONPaBAaHO H YTO Gnarogaps BHECEHHOW nonpaske pabora 6yner NPOBOAUTE=  cs Gonee OPraHU3OBAHHO H YETKO,B OMNpenereHHO yCTAHOBJIEHHbIH CPOK.
(32) Mr. STETSENKO (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President, I would like to explain briefly about the amendments introduced by the delegation of  the Soviet Union, It is not a question of our expressing any lack of confidence in the Chairman of the group  but a question of organizing the work of the group in a precise manner, so that the settlement of matters  is not delayed until the next General Conference, I think that our proposal is fully justified and that, thanks  to the amendment which has been introduced, the group's proceedings will be conducted in a more orderly  and efficient way, within a clearly fixed period of time,
33.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, do you want any further explanations? No. We shall therefore proceed  to the vote.  (Voting was by show of hands. )
33.2 The results of the vote are as follows: 16 votes in favour, 70 against and 36 abstentions. The  proposal is therefore defeated.
33.3 The next amendment proposed concerns paragraph 7. I shall ask the Secretary again to ex-  plain it, in English this time.
34, The SECRETARY:  Thank you, Mr, President. I shall explain the amendment in English, The amendment of the  Soviet Union consists in deleting from paragraph 7 the words: "to carry out fuller investigations",  The new paragraph would then read: "It may subsequently, when the need arises, set up subgroups  in order to facilitate negotiations or the finalizing of texts",
35, The PRESIDENT:  Again, as before, may I call on Mr. Wynter, the Chairman of the Executive Board, to say  something on that proposal.
36, Mr. WYNTER (Jamaica), Chairman of the Executive Board: :  Mr, President, I am referring to the English text. In the English test, if you take out these  words it will make no difference to the paragraph, because if you say in order to facilitate nego-  tations" that can include anything, even further investigations. So that the deletion of the words  "further investigations!" in the English text will not change the sense of the paragraph. But I do  not know about the text in Russian or in the other languages. As far as the English text is con-  cerned, the proposed amendment will not change the meaning or significance of the beretrene, sr  I wonder if there is any purpose in our amending it. I therefore ask my Soviet colleagues to decide  whether there is really any point in taking out these words,
37. The PRESIDENT:  i i May I call upon the delegate of the USSR to say what the difference is.
10 38. T-u CTEIEHKO (Cons Coserckux ConnarucTHIecKHx Pecny61uK):  I"-u Mpexcemarerb, Mexay aurnnñckHM U pyccKHM TeKCTaMH CyMeCTBYeT PasHULA, HO uroG =  sarärnBaTs 06CYKIEHUS STOrO BONPOCA, COBETCKas Aeeralus CBOW NIPEIVIOXeHNA MO MyHKTy 7 Chiao
(38) Mr. STETSENKO (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President, the English and Russian texts differ, but in order not to prolong discussion on this  matter, the Soviet delegation is withdrawing its proposals concerning paragraph 7,
39.1 The PRESIDENT: ;  Thank you very much, I am informed that the delegation of the German Democratic Republic  wishes to withdraw the proposal it made concerning time limits. Thank you, The proposal is  withdrawn,
39.2 Now, ladies and gentlemen, after those proposals and counter-proposals for amendment, ye  vote on paragraphs 4 to 14 as amended,  (Voting was by show of hands. )
39,3 The result of the voting is as follows: 98 in favour, none against and 9 abstentions, Docu-  ment 19 C/2 Add, , as amended is therefore adopted.
39.4 Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to thank the Chairman of the Executive Board and the Board it-  self for the work they did this morning and for their unanimous recommendation of Mr, Boissier-  Palun of the People's Republic of Benin as Chairman of the Drafting and Negotiation Group, I also  thank the Chairman of the Nominations Committee for presenting the Board's recommendation to  us, and Ithank all of you who have taken part either in discussing or in voting on document 19 C/2 Add, 5  and I thank the Conference for adopting the document,  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)/ DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)/ DEBATE  DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)/ OBCY XIEHHE BOIIPOCOB OBIEH MOJIHTHKH  (npo nonxeHue ) (lb ) allan 3251
40. The PRESIDENT:  We now go back to the general policy debate, and I call upon the head of the delegation of the  World Federation of Trade Unions, Mr, Walter Nessnau, to address us.
41.1 M. NESSNAU (Fédération syndicale mondiale). -  Monsieur le Président, exprimant les aspirations de plus de 150 millions de syndicalistes de  pays à systèmes économiquement différents, la Fédération syndicale mondiale (FSM) voudrait  saisir cette occasion pour exprimer sa position sur quelques-uns des problèmes abordés dans le  Projet de plan à moyen terme et dans le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1977-1978, qui  sont soumis à l'examen de cette dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale.
41.2 J'aimerais tout d'abord souligner la conviction de la FSM que l'Unesco doit et peut jouer un  rôle du plus en plus important face aux préoccupations de notre époque, dans le respect des valeurs  éthiques et au profit de l'humanité, en vue d'atteindre les objectifs suivants : paix, détente, coexis-  tence pacifique, désarmement, défense des droits de l'homme et instauration d'un nouvel ordre éco-  nomique international,
41.3 La FSM constate avec satisfaction que l'Unesco s'emploie toujours plus activement à contri-  buer à résoudre les problèmes de la détente et de la paix. Nous apprécions surtout l'attention qu'elle  attache aux résultats de la Conférence de Helsinki de 1975, dont la richesse et l'impact mondial sont  incontestables. Nous pensons que des réflexions supplémentaires sont nécessaires et qu'elles trou-  veront leur place dans le prochain programme. Il s'agit notamment des recherches en faveur de la  paix, qui méritent toute l'attention de l'Unesco.
41.4 La FSM est d'avis que le problème du désarmement occupe une place de première importance  dans le contexte de la détente internationale et de l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique inter-  national, En conséquence, il convient de réfléchir sur l'utilisation des moyens dégagés par le dé-  sarmement pour promouvoir dans les pays en voie de développement non seulement le développe-  ment économique et social, mais aussi l'éducation, la science et la culture.
41.5 L'instauration d'un ordre économique international plus juste se montre indispensable et  urgente, et il est bon que ce problème occupe une part importante du Projet de programme, La  PSM, pour sa part, est convaincue que l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international  serait impossible et dénuée de sens sans des réformes fondamentales des structures économiques,  sociales, politiques et culturelles au niveau national.
41.6 Dans ce contexte, la FSM fait sienne l'idée générale, proclamée par le Directeur ga ’  que l'Unesco doit devenir une organisation internationale qui soit réellement au service des peup:es:  C'est la raison pour laquelle la FSM souligne l'importance de la collaboration de l'Unesco avec les
462        grandes organisations syndicales internationales. Sans une participation réelle et engagée des grandes organisations de masse, aucune action sur le plan national et international ne peut être ef-  ficace. Les travailleurs et leurs organisations syndicales s'opposeront à toute politique tendant a priver la majorité de la population du droit de bénéficier des fruits du développement économique
41.7 Dans le Projet de plan à moyen terme, l'Unesco se propose de participer activement à la  préparation de la deuxième Conférence des Nations Unies sur l'application de la science et de la  technique au développement proposée par le Conseil économique et social, qui doit se tenir en
1979. L'Unesco envisage, à l'intention de cette conférence, de préparer des études, de mener des  enquêtes et de rédiger des documents de travail. La FSM considère que cette initiative aura une  importance particulière, car les problèmes de la science et de la technique sont directement liés  à la division internationale du travail et à d'autres problèmes qui touchent la vie des travailleurs.  Sur le plan technique, le fossé croissant qui sépare les pays développés des pays en voie de déve-  loppement constitue un des problèmes les plus urgents dans le domaine du développement.
41.8 La FSM estime que l'édification.d'une économie moderne et indépendante nécessite l'établis-  sement d'une infrastructure scientifique et technique dnns les pays en voie de développement et la  formation de spécialistes à tous les niveaux. Seule une telle démarche est à même d'assurer ce  processus et d'éliminer dans les pays en voie de développement les causes de l'exode des cerveaux.
41.9 Selon la FSM, il importe également d'oeuvrer pour atteindre les objectifs suivants : coopéra-  tion économique, scientifique et technologique sur un pied d'égalité et réciproquement avantageuse,  garantissant aux pays la souveraineté sur leurs ressources nationales et le contrôle de celles-ci ;  interdiction aux sociétés transnationales d'exercer des pressions pour utiliser dans leurs entre-  prises des spécialistes venus de l'étranger au détriment du développement national des sciences  et de la formation des cadres.
41.10 A la quatrième session de la CNUCED, tenue ici même à Nairobi, la FSM a souligné qu'une  des mesures propres à garantir que les investissements privés étrangers soient utilisés au profit  des pays en voie de développement pourrait être la signature d'accords entre pays en voie de déve-  loppement. Ces accords contiendraient des clauses visant à fixer un pourcentage des investisse-  ments nets étrangers qui serait prélevé par l'Etat afin de créer et de développer un fonds national  pour la formation de cadres nationaux qualifiés pour l'économie nationale en vue de l'application  d'une technologie nouvelle. Selon la FSM, les syndicats devraient être associés à l'élaboration de  ces accords ainsi qu'au contrôle de leur application, ce qui permettrait de défendre les intérêts  des travailleurs et de susciter des initiatives en faveur d'un développement global.
41.11 La FSM a soulevé le problème de la technologie au cours de la quinzième réunion de sa  Commission des ingénieurs, cadres et techniciens, le 12 avril de cette année, à Marrakech  (Maroc). La Commission a élaboré deux documents, portant l'un sur la reconnaissance mutuelle  des qualifications et des diplômes, l'autre sur les transferts de technologie. Soulignant l'impor-  tance de la phase préparatoire de la deuxième Conférence des Nations Unies sur la science et la  technique et insistant vivement sur la nécessité d'une coopération, la FSM considère ces deux do-  cuments comme sa première contribution à cette grande initiative.
41.12 Monsieur le Président, se fondant sur le document 19 C/4 qui traite, entre autres questions,  de celle de l'éducation des adultes, la FSM voudrait insister sur la double signification de cette  éducation. En effet, loin de constituer un objectif en soi, l'éducation est un important moyen d'ac-  tion permettant de réaliser de nombreux autres objectifs. Telle est l'une des conclusions du Col-  loque des trois organisations syndicales internationales (FSM, CISL, CMT) et de l'Alliance coopé-  rative internationale sur l'accès des travailleurs à l'éducation qui s'est tenu à Paris en décembre
1975 sous l'égide de l'Unesco. Considérant qu'aucun des problèmes actuels - la technologie, l'em-  ploi, l'avenir du développement de la société - ne peut être traité en dehors de l'éducation, les par-  ticipants au Colloque ont souligné la volonté des travailleurs d'accéder à l'éducation, mais aussi  de participer au développement de cette éducation et à la formulation des politiques d'éducation  pour leurs enfants et pour eux-mêmes.
41.13 Selon la FSM, dans une première étape, il semble nécessaire d'agir pour favoriser l'accès  des travailleurs à l'éducation et pour obtenir des Etats membres la ratification de l'application des  recommandations qu'ils ont adoptées à la Conférence de Tokyo en 1972. Ilimporte de voir si l'Unesco  dispose d'un ensemble de dispositions visant à favoriser l'accès des travailleurs à l'éducation,  leur application effective dépendant néanmoins des Etats.
41.14 Il nous apparaît cependant que les centrales syndicales nationales ont leur mot à dire à cet  égard. Pour sa part, la FSM suggère que la convocation d'une conférence syndicale mondiale con-  sacrée aux problèmes de l'éducation des adultes figure dans le programme de l'Unesco. Cette con-  férence se pencherait sur l'état des questions de l'éducation, l'accès des travailleurs à l'éducation  et l'application des décisions prises en la matière par les organisations du système des Nations  Unies,
41.15 Monsieur le Président, le Projet de plan à moyen terme appelle les Etats membres ; prendre  des mesures propres à renverser la tendance actuelle à l'accroissement du nombre ss se =  analphabètes. Il n'est pas nécessaire de faire un long exposé sur les causes fondamen ales de ‘ nal-  phabétisme, car elles sont bien connues : exploitation capitaliste, domination coloniale, néo-colo-
10 La FSM considère que la lutte contre l'analphabétisme se situe  un nouvel ordre économique international, de l'application de la  l'homme et de la société et, notamment, de la défense  nialisme, oppression sociale.  le contexte de l'instauration d'  science et de la technique dans l'intérêt de  des intérêts des travailleurs ruraux et migrants.  dans
41.16 La FSM manifeste des doutes quant à la question de savoir si les possibilités et les moyens  de surmonter l'analphabétisme sont suffisamment utilisés. En même temps, nous partageons pleine.  ment les conclusions figurant dans l'évaluation des résultats du Programme:expérimental mondial  d'alphabétisation de l'Unesco, qui constate : "Si l'on avait mieux tenu compte de l'expérience  cubaine et d'autres semblables, le Programme mondial aurait très bien pu éviter certains Écueils, "'  En effet, les statistiques officielles prouvent que ce sont les pays nouvellement indépendants, ceux  qui ont choisi la voie non capitaliste de développement, qui font les progrès les plus marquants en  matière d'alphabétisation et d'éducation des masses ainsi que de formation des cadres à tous les  niveaux.
41,17 Le succès de l'URSS, premier pays dans le monde à surmonter ces difficultés en alphabé-  tisant 100 millions d'illettrés de moins dé 20 ans, ainsi que ceux qu'ont remportés ensuite sur ce  plan la Pologne, la Roumanie, la Yougoslavie et d'autres pays socialistes où ce problème se posait,  démontrent que ce fléau peut être liquidé. Nous estimons que dans les domaines qui sont les siens,  l'Unesco serait bien inspirée de puiser davantage dans la riche expérience accumulée durant de  longues années par les savants, les travailleurs et leurs syndicats dans les pays socialistes. Dans  le domaine de l'alphabétisation, les syndicats ont joué un rôle important. C'est sous la pression  des masses et en fonction des initiatives des syndicats que l'on passera rapidement à la réalisation  de cet objectif.
41.18 La FSM réaffirme sa volonté de participer aux projets d'alphabétisation de l'Unesco en  coopération avec d'autres organisations syndicales internationales. Nous renouvelons notre appel  invitant l'Unesco à tenir compte des études élaborées par les organisations syndicales en la matière,
41.19 Monsieur le Président, en ce qui concerne l'homme et son environnement - question dont  le Projet de plan à moyen terme souligne l'importance - la FSM considère cette problématique  dans une perspective plus large. À notre avis, elle se situe particulièrement dans le contexte de  l'utilisation de la technologie qui résulte de la situation dans laquelle se trouve la société. À la
61e Conférence internationale du travail, la FSM a souligné que, dans la plupart des industries  modernes des pays capitalistes, l'équipement technique est conçu d'abord et les fonctions dévolues  aux travailleurs viennent ensuite, la finalité mercantile ayant remplacé la préoccupation humanisie,  Il conviendrait à cet égard d'adopter, dans le cadre de l'Unesco, une approche globale qui tienne  compte des relations entre l'homme et la société, la société et la technologie, l'homme et la  nature.
41,20 La FSM appelle l'Unesco à coopérer avec le Bureau international du travail en faveur d'une  politique efficace de prévention sociale, les sciences et la technique devant permettre de réduire  la peine des hommes au travail et d'améliorer radicalement la protection de leur santé, de leur  sécurité et de leur bien-être.physique, mental et social.
41.21 Monsieur le Président, il y a trois ans, un coup d'Etat sanglant renversait le gouvernement  constitutionnel du président Salvador Allende au Chili. Depuis, le peuple chilien est victime de  l'oppression d'une dictature fasciste qui ne se maintient au pouvoir que par la terreur et la répres-  sion. La FSM, en exprimant une fois de plus son entière solidarité aux travailleurs du Chili et à  leur Centrale syndicale unique, ainsi qu'au peuple chilien tout entier, insiste de manière pressante  auprès des représentants des Etats membres de l'Unesco - notamment ceux d'Amérique latine -  présents à cette conférence pour qu'ils décident de mettre fin à la présence d'un bureau régional  de l'Unesco à Santiago. À notre avis, ce bureau n'y a pas sa place aussi longtemps que dans ce  pays seront violés brutalement les droits de l'homme les plus élémentaires. L'Unesco et ses Etats  membres seraient également bien inspirés de prévoir la suspension de tout programme de coopé-  ration et d'aide technique à la junte chilienne.
41.22 Monsieur le Président, au moment où l'Unesco achève la trentième année de son activité  et entre dans une étape nouvelle de son existence - comme le Conseil exécutif l'a souligné - la  FSM souhaite sincèrement une amélioration de l'efficacité des rapports existant entre nos deux  organisations. Elle renouvelle également sa demande visant à ce que les réunions consultatives ]  annuelles entre l'Unesco et les syndicats se tiennent régulièrement et à ce que ces réunions soient  inscrites au calendrier officiel des réunions de l'Organisation. Ceci contribuerait certainement à  la mise en oeuvre de certains programmes importants de l'Unesco intéressant les travailleurs du  monde.
41.23 En conclusion, permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, de vous remettre le message adressé  par la FSM à l'Unesco à l'occasion du trentième anniversaire de sa création, dont je vous prie de  sn vouloir porter le texte à la connaissance de la Conférence générale. Merci, Monsieur le  résident.  (Mr, AGUIRRE, Uruguay, took the chair. )
(42) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the representative of the World Federation of Trade Unions, I now give the floor to the head  of the delegation of the United Republic of Cameroon and Vice-Minister of Education Mrs, Dorothy L  Njeuma, ; 3 à
43,1 Mrs. NJEUMA (United Republic of Cameroon):  Mr. President, Mr. Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr, Director-General of Unesco,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen: may I be allowed to join those distinguished persons  who have spoken before me, to express the sincere appreciation of the delegation of the United  Republic of Cameroon, which it is my privilege to lead, to the Government and entire people of  Kenya who are so graciously hosting this nineteenth session of the General Conference of Unesco  and who have reserved for us such a warm and friendly welcome in their beautiful national capital,  Nairobi, This bold initiative is indeed very noteworthy for a young developing African country  located next door to South Africa, Rhodesia and Namibia, countries where the capabilities of the  African are being, and have been for many years past, very erroneously and unjustly questioned.
43,2 Let me also take this opportunity to congratulate warmly the President of this session of the  General Conference on his unanimous election, In so doing, it is with a sense of legitimate pride  that I should like to mention that he is the second African to hold this eminent post since a distin-  guished Cameroonian in the person of Mr, William Eteki Mboumoua, now Secretary-General of the  Organization of African Unity, was elected President of the fifteenth session in 1968. I am certain  that with his outstanding leadership in the field of education and his wide experience of the subtle -  ties of the Unesco machinery, he will ably conduct the proceedings of this session to a successful  close.
43,3 The Cameroonian delegation also welcomes into the Unesco family, the newly independent  countries of Grenada, Mozambique, Papua New Guinea, Seychelles and Surinam, and looks  forward to the admission of Angola during this session of the General Conference, Mr, President,  ladies and gentlemen, you will no doubt remember that when Harold MacMillan, former Prime  Minister of the United Kingdom, saw in the late fifties the writing on the wall which spelt the begin-  ning of the end of colonialism and oppression in Africa, he declared: "The wind of change is blow-  ing through Africa", Today, when the nineteenth session of the General Conference of Unesco is  being held on African soil for the first time in the thirty-year history of the Organization under the  dynamic leadership of an illustrious African, Mr. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, it is evident that another  wind of change is indeed blowing throughout the world, This event marks a point of no return, not  only for Unesco, but also for other international organizations and for the world at large. Develop-  ing countries are demanding a fairer share in the world's wealth, in education, in scientific and  technological knowledge and techniques. Developing countries are demanding that the yoke of  poverty, ignorance, hunger and disease be lifted from them, and this as soon as possible. Develop-  ing countries are no longer satisfied to sit in misery with arms folded while the rest of the world  forges ahead in comfort and plenty. The time has now come, ladies and gentlemen, when the Third  World counts more than ever on the co-operation and understanding of the more advanced nations to  emerge from the dismal abyss of underdevelopment and all that it entails.
43,4 Mr. President, in its contribution to the general policy debate, my delegation will not em-  bark on an account of Cameroon's achievement in the fields of education, science, culture and  communication since the last session of the General Conference. This is not because Cameroon  has not made progress in these areas in recent years, On the contrary she has made significant  strides forward. We simply wish to abide by the proposal of the Executive Board and the Director-  General as regards the topics to be dealt with in the general policy debate.
43.5 Mr, President, the Cameroonian delegation fully supports the Medium -Term Plan as out-  lined in document 19 C/4 and the Programme and Budget for 1977-1978 as presented in docu-  ment 19 C/5, The appointment of an outstanding lady, Mrs. Magda Jôborû of Hungary, as Presid-  ent of the eighteenth session of the General Conference in 1974 before International Women's Year  was a clear indication that Unesco was way ahead in according to women a more prominent role in  world affairs than they had played in the past. International Women's Year has come and gone and  it is not for me here to dwell on what that year achieved. We simply need to look around us at the  number of female heads of delegations and female delegates attending this session of the Confer -  ence and make comparisons with the last session to see that progress has been made. There is  no doubt, however, that a lot still remains to be done, to give half of the world's population its  proper place, It is very encouraging that the Draft Programme and Budget of Unesco for the next  two years, and the Medium-Term Plan, include projects on the application of the principle of equal  opportunities for girls and women in the area of education. There are studies, aimed at increas-  ing the participation of women in development and in public life outside the traditional environment  of the home, and also at improving the status of women in general, I very strongly recommend  that the General Conference maintain these chapters and increase the budgetary provisions for the  implementation of these projects if possible,
43.6 Mr. President, for many developing countries, education remains one of the most effective  tools for the achievement of economic, social and cultural development, Most developing Countrie  spend anywhere from one-sixth to one-third, and sometimes more, of their national budgets on ios  cation, Most developing countries would like, and are in fact encouraged by Unesco and other rel.  ated bodies, to improve on their rates of school attendance and to attain 100 per cent if possible  Yet this in itself poses enormous problems. With the improvement of medical services and stand-  ards of living, most developing countries are faced with an unprecedented explosion in the popula-  tion of young people, all of whom are seeking an education, However, the rate at which new schools  can be opened or existing ones expanded is not commensurate with this population boom, The num.  ber of teachers, especially trained ones, is not growing proportionately with the increase in num-  bers of schoolchildren, The result is an increase in the number of children per class as well as  an increase in the number of children per teacher, Perhaps a little example will help to illustrate  the situation more vividly. A little boy of six who had just started school refused to go to school  one morning, When asked by his father why he preferred to stay at home that day, the boy replied  (and I prefer to give his reply in French because I think it more expressive): "Papa, la classe  était si chargée hier que j'ai failli étre écrasé', Mr. President, is there any doubt, therefore,  that efficiency has to fall in such circumstances? My delegation fully supports Unesco's efforts  to solve this problem by giving prominence in its medium-term and short-term programmes to  teacher training in developing countries, and by seeking a reduction in the cost of education,  especially by studies aimed at the construction of classrooms at reduced cost,
43,7 There is another problem which is directly related to this first one, and that is the bottle-  neck which exists in many young countries between primary and secondary education, The vast  majority of young people in developing countries who arrive at the end of the primary school cycle  do not continue into secondary school. In Cameroon, for example, only three out of ten school  leavers can continue with their education, despite the very large increase in recent years in the  number of secondary schools. This does not take into account the considerable numbers of those  who, for one reason or another, have to leave school before the end of the primary stage. This  situation poses particular problems to developing countries, This population is a potential source  of manpower, yet it cannot be used effectively, because the education it has received is not adap-  ted to economic production, Besides, it has a great tendency to migrate from the rural areas in  a vain search for jobs in towns, which consequently increases juvenile delinquency and related  social problems. Most developing countries have therefore found it necessary to reform and renov-  ate their systems of education in an attempt to solve this problem and to engage young people more  resourcefully in national development. This trend was very evident at the last regional Confer-  ence of Ministers of Education of African Member States of Unesco held in Lagos. Unesco's inten-  tion within the next two years to help those countries engaged in educational reform and renovation  to train the personnel required for this exercise and to translate objectives into concrete programmes  is therefore most welcome. In this connection we should like to see Unesco pursue the recommen-  dation made at the regional conterence in Lagos to set up a network through which information and  experiences on the innovation of educational systems can be more adequately spread between, and  shared by, Member States.
43.8 As far as rural exodus is concerned, there is no doubt that the absence of such basic necessi-  ties as electricity and pipe-borne water, not to mention medical facilities, appropriate schools  and adequate employment, does not create an atmosphere that encourages young people to remain  in the villages. My delegation therefore supports Unesco's plan for integrated rural development  which is of immense importance to countries whose economies depend on agriculture.
43,9 Mr, President, let me now turn to the new international economic order. The Cameroonian  delegation is convinced that one of the ways in which this new international economic order can  come about and be made effective is by an immediate and massive improvement in the teaching of  science and technology in developing countries, The teaching of these subjects is, however, Very  expensive. At the present time, scientific equipment in most developing countries must be impor-  ted at great cost and without sufficient guarantee for its maintenance, Adequately trained staff for  the teaching of science and technology is in very short supply. It is for these reasons that my  delegation fully supports Unesco's programme both in the Medium-Term Plan and in the next bien-  nium to improve the teaching of science and technology in developing countries and especially the  search for new materials for laboratory techniques which are adapted to local development needs,  The short refresher courses outlined in the draft programmes for personnel already in service  should be made more practical than theoretical because, Mr. President, science and technology  are characterized by their practical, experimental nature. Unesco should lay greater emphasis  on the improvement of local institutions for the training of teachers of science and technology as  well as laboratory assistants and technicians,
43.10 I should like to emphasize this aspect of the improvement of local institutions, especially  as far as scientific research is concerned, because herein lies the crux of the effectiveness of the  new international economic order. Inasmuch as the new international economic order depends oi  political and financial considerations, so also is it anchored in the degree to which countries, and  developing ones in particular, can be technologically independent while, at the same time, maîntaln-  ing that interdependence which is so necessary for co-operation and understanding between nations.  Research institutions, the world over, have served as units through which the natural resources  of a given country are studied and more fruitfully utilized, It is therefore imperative for the self-  reliance and endogenous development which are essential elements of the new international econ
466         omic order, that research infrastructures be developed within countries themselves  the Cameroonian delegation applauds Unesco's action in this directi :  the fund envisaged in the draft programmes for the advancement of  In this connection, we cannot emphasize sufficiently the importance of training nationals for the  implementation of national research programmes. While we do not doubt the importance of consult-  ants and experts in the realization and especially the conception of research and development pro-  grammes, we consider that the training of national expertise is crucial, As an age-old he  saying goes, give a hungry man a fish and you cure his hunger for a moment; but teach him how to fish and you cure his hunger for ever'. Mr, President, this saying summarizes the point of view  of the Cameroonian delegation as far as Unesco aid is concerned, In the field of scientific and  technical research, I shall take the risk of speaking for developing countries when I say that we  await with baited breath any positive results which will derive from Unesco's efforts to stem the  drain from our poor countries of the few qualified persons whom we have to more developed coun-  tries for better conditions of service and higher salaries,  That is why  on and welcomes particularly  scientific research in Africa,
43,11 In the area of culture, my delegation shares fully the concept of the preservation of the cul-  tural heritage of the world, We believe, however, that in so far as the world consists of individual  countries, each of which possesses its own intrinsic culture, Unesco should pay particular atten-  tion to the preservation of the cultural heritage of each individual nation, .The creation of archives,  libraries and museums, the training of specialized personnel, book promotion and the retrieval of  expropriated works of art are all very important, But there is one aspect of culture which requires  urgent action in developing countries, and that is the study of national languages and oral traditions,  In this age, when younger generations are less well versed in the traditions of their elders, with  every old man or woman who is buried there disappears a wealth of knowledge, in fact a library,  which is irretrievable. For that reason, Mr, President, my delegation would like Unesco to give  this aspect of culture the particular and urgent attention which it requires. In so far as the carv-  ing of countries by colonial powers placed artificial barriers between ethnic groups, it is especially  important to encourage the creation of regional and subregional centres for the study of national  languages and oral traditions,
43,12 Mr. President, this contribution to the general policy debate would not be complete if it did  not touch on the question of human rights which form the basis of Unesco's raison d'être. One of  the principal factors which led to the creation of Unesco was the desire of Member States to pro-  tect human dignity and to fight against the inequality among men which is born of mutual disrespect,  ignorance and racial prejudice. In many parts of the world today, people are refused their legitim-  ate rights, As we are in this part of the African continent, however, the situation in Southern  Africa should concern us particularly, In South Africa and Rhodesia the rights of the majority are  constantly being trampled upon by the notorious minority regimes of apartheid and racialism,  Africans in Namibia are refused the inalienable right to self-determination, These injustices  have been highlighted by the happenings of the past few months in South Africa, The recent appar-  ent about-turn of the Smith regime in Rhodesia is a clear indication that justice can be done if  there is goodwill on the part of those men who can bring it about, Or is it rather due to a threat  to the balance of power in this part of the world? Does the world have to wait until all the Africans  of Soweto and other black townships of South Africa are slaughtered by Vorster's assassins before  it decides to enforce change in that country also, or must we wait for a threat to the balance of  power in South Africa? Those countries which support Vorster's notorious regime, by their veto  of United Nations resolutions on an arms embargo against South Africa and by the actual sale of  arms to that country, should know that, each time an African is killed by Vorster's barbaric arm-  ies, this is done with their tacit agreement,
43,13 Mr, President, the active participation of my country in the United Nations and its Special-  ized Agencies such as Unesco is based on the faith which it places in the goodwill of man to ensure  world peace, international understanding and co-operation, We have not yet given up hope in this  belief, through which we are convinced that peace and justice can be assured for man and for all  men, We urge Unesco to continue to strive towards the elimination of suffering and injustices  based on sex, on religion and, especially, on race.
43,14 In conclusion, Mr, President, my delegation joins those who have denounced and will de-  nounce the action of those countries that are withholding their financial contribution to Unesco as  a means of bringing pressure to bear on the Organization, We consider this action as mean,  irresponsible, and unacceptable, My Government expresses its satisfaction with the able manner  in which the Director-General has conducted the affairs of the Organization over the past two years  despite grave difficulties. We should like to assure him that he can count on our continued and  unflinching support in the years ahead, We thank him, the Executive Board and the Secretariat  for the excellent job they are doing to foster the cause of humanity, Thank you very much,  Mr, President,
(44) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish): =  I thank the head of the delegation of the United Republic of Cameroon. ;  Cabral, Minister of Education and Culture, head of the delegation of Guinea Bissau,  I call upon H,E, Mr, Mario
10 45.1 M. CABRAL (Guinée-Bissau). - (Allocution prononcée en portugais, texte français fourni  par la délégation.) : soin  Tout d'abord, Monsieur le Président, je demande la permission de parler en portugais, parce  que c'est la langue étrangère que je maîtrise le mieux à cause de la domination de mon Pays par le  Portugal.
45, 2 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, Honorableg délégués  Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, au nom de la délégation de Tog  pays, de saluer fraternellement le peuple kényen, le gouvernement du Kenya et notre frère afné  le président Jomo Kenyatta, et de les remercier pour les merveilleuses conditions qu'ils ont su  créer pour la réalisation de ce grand événement qu'est la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence  générale de l'Unesco.
45.3 La réunion, pour la première fois en Afrique, de la Conférence générale, au moment où  l'Unesco est en train d'achever sa trentième année d'existence, marquera certainement le début  d'une nouvelle ère dans l'action de cette prestigieuse Organisation.
45.4 Je voudrais associer ma voix à celle des orateurs qui m'ont précédé, Monsieur le Président  pour vous féliciter de votre élection unanime au poste élevé que vous occupez à cette session histo-  rique de la Conférence générale.
45.5 Je voudrais aussi m'associer aux orateurs qui ont remercié Mme Magda Jéburd, chef de la  délégation hongroise, qui a assumé la présidence de la dix-huitième session avec la dignité, l'effi-  cacité et l'intégrité exigées par une conjoncture difficile.
45.6 Permettez encore, Monsieur le Président, que je salue le brillant patriote africain qui est  à la tête de cette Organisation, M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, pour la manière conséquente dont il  a su s'acquitter de sa lourde mais noble tâche et pour le rapport très dense qu'il a présenté à cette  conférence, permettant ainsi aux délégués de chaque pays d'avoir une idée assez claire des travaux  réalisés au sein de notre organisation. Nous voudrions encore féliciter M. le Directeur général  pour le courage avec lequel il à su faire face aux problèmes inhérents à son poste, auxquels  venaient s'ajouter des difficultés supplémentaires telles que le non-versement de leur contribution  par certains Etats membres et les campagnes de déformation des informations concernant  l'Organisation.
45.7 Nous sommes convaincus que la restructuration de l'Unesco et la création de nouveaux dépar-  tements, où la représentation du Tiers Monde devra être augmentée pour être plus équitable, sont  une bonne chose, de même que la décentralisation de l'Unesco dans le sens indiqué par M. le Directeur  général, à savoir que les experts devraient dorénavant s'identifier beaucoup plus avec les projets  nationaux de développement. Tout cela ne peut que donner une impulsion nouvelle à cette Organisa-  tion si complexe.
45.8 La délégation de Guinée-Bissau estime que les propositions de l'Unesco méritent son appui,  dans la mesure où le document 19 C/4 déclare dans son introduction que le Projet de plan à moyen  terme, bien qu'ayant un certain caractère expérimental, doit nécessairement se baser sur des  réalités concrètes, puisque, quel que soit le projet, il ne peut se réaliser pleinement que s'il  s'adapte à la réalité du processus dialectique d'évolution et de transformation.
45.9 Comme je le disais à la réunion des ministres de l'éducation africains qui s'est tenue à Lagos  sous la présidence du colonel Ali, commissaire fédéral à l'éducation du Nigéria, notre pays, vingt-  cinq mois seulement après sa totale libération de la domination coloniale, a plus à apprendre de  ce dialogue universel qu'à lui apporter. Cependant, l'expérience vécue pendant la lutte armée de  libération nationale, qui a été la grande génératrice de toutes les transformations survenues dans  notre société, nous autorise à mentionner quelques aspects de la lutte difficile mais exaltante de  reconstruction nationale de notre pays dans laquelle nous sommes engagés.
45.10 Notre pays, comme tous ceux qui ont souffert de la colonisation, se trouvait, au moment  de sa rentrée dans la famille des nations indépendantes, à un stade de développement assez bast  Le colonialisme n'a jamais essayé de développer dans nos pays d'autres aspects que ceux qui  étaient directement liés à son entreprise d'exploitation. Dans le domaine de la culture, il a toujours  essayé de soumettre nos peuples à la culture étrangère dont il était porteur.
45.11 Mais, aussi étonnant que cela puisse paraître, cette volonté de soumission des peuples ala  volonté de déculturation des colonialistes se manifeste encore dans nos pays, comme l'a indique  clairement l'honorable délégué de l'Irak citant le problème de la ville de Jérusalem et des terri-  toires arabes occupés.
45,12 Monsieur le Président, si l'Unesco veut être fidèle à sa vocation, elle doit donner une prio-  rité absolue à la défense des droits de l'homme, qu'il s'agisse de son droit à la survie ou de son  droit à une éducation et à une culture nationales.
45.13 Il est inadmissible qu'aujourd'hui, au moment où nous sommes réunis en Afrique, le régime  raciste de Pretoria persiste à défier l'ensemble de la communauté internationale non seulement  en continuant de massacrer l'homme africain, aussi bien en Afrique du Sud qu'en Namibie, mis
468         aussi en poursuivant son action de déculturation et d'asservissement. Récemment enco aS 10 le régime sud-africain a tenté, par les balles et les massacres, d'imposer une a, ig que l'Afrique se refuse d'accepter, en échange de l'élimination de od de la comédie de la création du Transkei soi-disant indé  mation concrète - et prétendument juridique - de la politique du racisme et de l'apartheid ? L'Afrique  comme elles vont rejeter
4 i mibie, dont serait lu |  seul représentant authentique du peuple namibien, c'est-à-dire la SWAPO tu
45,14 Cette politique raciste a fait école, puisque l'allié naturel et sûr de Pretoria, Israël, dé-  fiant tous les principes énoncés dans la Charte des Nations Unies, a également engagé une Tamla  opération de dépersonnalisation et de judaisation du peuple palestinien,
45,15 La liberté de l'homme et ses droits inaliénables à la dignité, à la justice et à une culture  nationale ne peuvent être sacrifiés, de quelque manière que ce soit, à des considérations d'ordre  commercial ou stratégique. Il est du devoir de l'Unesco de prendre toutes les mesures et éven-  tuellement toutes les sanctions nécessaires pour assurer la survie des peuples d'Afrique du Sud  de Namibie, du Zimbabwe, de Palestine et des Comores. ’
45.16 Le colonialisme portugais a essayé de perpétuer sa domination, en déculturant les peuples  soumis à ses armes et en instituant un système d'éducation hautement sélectif, destiné à former  uniquement les assimilés indispensables aux tâches d'exécution. A ce propos, Amilcar Cabral, ce  grand leader africain, ce martyr de la libération universelle, qui a bien compris la tâche que  l'histoire avait assignée à sa génération, disait : "Les petits (j'ajoute : les grands) bourgeois  doivent se suicider en tant que classe pour renaître comme travailleurs s'identifiant profondément  aux aspirations populaires. "! Et dans un autre passage de l'oeuvre précieuse qu'il a léguée à l'huma-  nité, analysant le rôle joué par la lutte qui a permis toute une renaissance culturelle et l'échange  entre les diverses cultures nationales, notre leader a dit que "la lutte de libération est un fait  culturel et un facteur de culture".
45,17 La pensée d'Amilcar Cabral, la mise en place, pendant la lutte armée dans les zones  libérées par le PAIGC, de nouvelles structures économiques, sociales, administratives et poli-  tiques et particulièrement l'implantation d'écoles adaptées à nos options fondamentales, le com-  plet divorce entre l'école coloniale et notre réalité socioculturelle, ont fait que nous n'avons pas  songé, en Guinée-Bissau, à réformer le système colonial d'éducation, qui ne nous a jamais servis.  Nous avons compris qu'il s'agissait chez nous de transformer radicalement le système hérité, en  nous proposant les objectifs suivants : (1) transformation complète des programmes scolaires  pour les adapter aux réalités socioculturelles et aux besoins du développement au moyen d'une  liaison entre l'école et la vie afin que l'éducation devienne un élément actif et intégré du dévelop-  pement global de notre nation africaine ; (2) démocratisation et gratuité de l'enseignement, en  donnant à tous les mêmes chances et possibilités ; (3) formation locale du personnel technique  indispensable au développement du pays ; (4) enseignement dans la langue nationale.
45.18 A ces objectifs principaux, on doit ajouter : l'effort de décentralisation au niveau régional,  au niveau local et à celui des institutions ; la planification de la formation des cadres nécessaires  au développement futur de notre société ; la gestion collective à tous les niveaux ; l'introduction  du travail productif à l'école permettant une diminution des charges de l'Etat en matière d'éduca-  tion, mais surtout une réhabilitation du travail manuel, et en particulier du travail agricole, ainsi  que la liaison dialectique entre la théorie et la pratique et entre le travail intellectuel et le travail  manuel,
45.19 On ne peut pas réaliser d'emblée ces objectifs ; il s'agit d'un processus qui doit d'abord  être confronté avec l'évolution socio-économique pour qu'il réponde avec certitude aux besoins de  développement de notre peuple. Quoique nous soyons au début de ce processus, nous pouvons doré-  navant assurer qu'après deux ans seulement de complète souveraineté nous avons accueilli dans  nos écoles, selon les renseignements disponibles pour l'année scolaire 1975-1976, le double du  nombre maximum d'élèves que la "mission civilisatrice' du Portugal eût jamais attirés dans les  établissements scolaires, malgré cinq siècles de présence - odieuse - dans notre pays, Malgré  des difficultés diverses, nous sommes en train d'améliorer progressivement les conditions  humaines et matérielles de notre enseignement.
45.20 C'est ainsi que conformément aux principes qui gouvernent notre politique éducative, nous  élaborons des manuels, nous définissons de nouveaux profils pour les divers degrés d'enseigne -  ment, nous créons un nouveau type d'enseignement qui doit être, selon notre conception, un des  facteurs les plus décisifs du développement intégré de notre communauté.
45.21 Du fait de l'absence d'infrastructures ou de leur destruction par la guerre, nous ayons  même utilisé comme écoles quelques camps retranchés, héritage du colonialisme. Le manque de  ressources financières et le besoin d'adapter les écoles à l'environnement national nous ou en  Outre conduits à étendre aux zones auparavant occupées par les troupes coloniales le type d école  établi dans les anciennes zones libérées. Il s'agit d'établissements aux structures simples, utili-  Sant du matériel local. Pour cette tâche nous comptons sur la mobilisation des élèves, des ensei-  gnants, des parents et de la population en général.
10 45.22 Nous avons créé un système de formation permanente pour nos enseignants, dont la majo-  rité n'ont pas les qualifications voulues. Mais nous devons constater que, malgré l'effort entrepri  environ 65 % d'entre eux n'ont pas été au-delà de la quatrième année de l'enseignement primaire ë  En outre, les bons résultats que nous sommes en train d'obtenir nous amènent à étudier la possi-  bilité d'étendre à d'autres secteurs cette méthode de formation permanente de nos cadres,
45.23 L'orientation que nous donnons à notre enseignement et l'effort économique que cela im-  plique ont amené le président du Conseil d'Etat, le camarade Luis Cabral, à affirmer à la dernière  réunion de notre Assemblée nationale populaire que c'est dans l'éducation que l'on trouve la plus  grande preuve de courage et de détermination, et par l'éducation que l'on peut arriver à rattraper  le retard imposé par le colonialisme. Il a aussi fait état de la naissance d'une conscience nouvelle  dans la jeunesse du fait de la décolonisation - encore partielle - des mentalités.
45.24 Cette évolution de la jeunesse est une conséquence de la libération nationale de notre pays  par le PAIGC, parti qui a toujours été conscient de ses responsabilités et, en outre, du fait quele  Commissariat d'Etat à l'éducation a étudié les défauts les plus graves du système qui nous a été  légué, en envisageant une action ponctuelle au cours de cette période de transition,
45.25 Ainsi nous avons introduit une discipline de formation sociopolitique ; nous avons restruc-  turé tous les programmes et les contenus des disciplines dont l'incidence idéologique était la plus  profonde ; nous avons appelé les étudiants à participer activement à la direction des écoles ; nous  avons mobilisé la jeunesse pour toutes les tâches de la reconstruction nationale, en particulier les  travaux agricoles et les activités d'alphabétisation.
45.26 Nous voulons mettre en relief la participation à la campagne nationale d'alphabétisation des  étudiants, encadrés par notre organisation de jeunes, la Jeunesse africaine Amilcar Cabral (JAAC);  en effet, chez nous, l'alphabétisation est une tâche prioritaire étant donné que plus de 80 % de notre  population est analphabète. Amilcar Cabral disait que "seul un peuple instruit est un peuple libre"  et que "tous ceux qui savent doivent enseigner à ceux qui ne savent pas''. Cette pensée de Cabral  est d'une actualité particulièrement brûlante pour tous les pays du Tiers Monde, qui ressentent le  besoin urgent de modifier le rapport entre l'homme et la nature.
45.27 Chez nous, l'alphabétisation, comme l'éducation en général, est axée sur l'homme et en-  visage le développement progressif de notre société. Dans l'action éducative, nous nous préoccupons  constamment d'assurer une liaison étroite entre la formation et le développement socio-économique,  pour que nos écoles ne deviennent pas "ine fabrique de production de diplômes!'', conformément à  l'avertisssement lancé par le camarade Luis Cabral à la réunion de notre Assemblée nationale  populaire.
45.28 Pour que l'éducation soit effectivement un facteur de développement, elle doit tenir compte  de l'histoire du peuple auquel elle s'adresse et du projet de société que ce peuple s'est donné,  C'est ce qui explique, chez nous, l'action coordonnée entre l'alphabétisation et la renaissance  ainsi que la recherche culturelle.
45.29 Les peuples qui ont été capables de consentir tant de sacrifices pour pouvoir faire entendre  leur voix, pour retrouver leur dignité et participer au processus historique de l'humanité sans  jamais oublier qui ont été leurs amis, leurs alliés et qui ont été leurs ennemis ; les peuples qui  ont été capables de refuser le colonialisme et de se montrer intraitables avec l'ennemi, mais  également capables d'aimer profondément les autres peuples qui ont souffert de l'asservissement  fasciste ou colonialiste ; les peuples capables de créer et d'exprimer leur art et leur culture au  milieu des difficultés de la lutte comment ne pas affirmer que ce sont sûrement des peuples  cultivés ! Se fondant sur cette constatation, comment peut-on négliger l'étude des mécanismes el  du contenu de la culture ? Où trouvera-t-on les sources nécessaires pour procéder à cette étude ?  Qui y procédera ? Dans quelle direction ?
45,30 Monsieur le Président, je crois également qu'il faut attirer l'attention de la Conférence sur  le problème particulièrement brûlant des peuples d'Afrique qui ont accédé à l'indépendance et à la  liberté, Les guerres imposées par le colonialisme ont provoqué des souffrances, mais ont égale-  ment brisé nos structures. Des milliers de réfugiés de ces divers pays ont dû fuir les brutalités  des colonialistes et ils ne sont rentrés dans leurs pays qu'après l'indépendance. Nous ne sommes  pas responsables de cet état de choses, mais nous devons faire face à ce problème, nous occuper  du reclassement de ces personnes ; nous estimons que c'est une priorité proprement nationale,  tout en rendant hommage aux organisations internationales qui nous ont aidés dans cette tâche.  Nous estimons que l'Unesco et le Haut Commisariat des Nations Unies pour les réfugiés devraient  poursuivre leur coopération, en adoptant un programme d'action qui permettrait à ces hommes et  à ces femmes de se voir réintégrer comme il se doit dans leur pays. C'est là le devoir moral de  la communauté internationale.
45.31 Cet effort de pensée et d'action consenti tant par la Guinée-Bissau que par le Cap-Vert,  Sao Tomé et Principe, 1'Angola et le Mozambique pour la construction d'Etats modernes prend  toute sa signification si l'on considère que nos pays sont sortis économiquement et financièrement  affaiblis d'une longue lutte armée pour leur libération nationale. Malgré tout, nous sommes su  à accepter tous les sacrifices pour doter nos pays d'un système d'éducation et des cadres néces-  saires, objectif pour lequel tant de nos martyrs ont donné leur vie.
45,32 L'Unesco pourrait trouver là un terrain d'action pour démontrer sa vocation humanitaire  Dans le cadre des projets qu'elle a l'intention de réaliser dans les ] ; : ; > i pays les plus défavorisés, elle  pourrait apporter une contribution importante a 1'effort de mon pays dans le domaine de l'éducation  et de la culture. L'Unesco pourrait aussi apporter une aide considérable a un peuple qui a fourni  la preuve de son dynamisme et de sa volonté de développement, dans le cadr  s'est choisies, notamment l'accès rapide à la technologie moderne. Mais le transfert de techno-  logie doit selon nous être envisagé comme un effort sincère de la part de l'ensemble de la commu-  nauté humaine pour partager sans exclusive les connaissances qui doivent assurer un meilleur  devenir de l'homme. Nous estimons donc que les transferts de technologie vers le Tiers Monde ne  doivent être subordonnés à aucune condition et que leur objectif doit être l'accession des masses  africaines à la modernisation qui leur permettra d'apporter une contribution de qualité à la cons-  truction d'un monde plus équilibré et plus juste.  e des options qu'il
45,33 Les pays développés ont une dette morale à l'égard des pays qu'ils ont exploités et dont ils  ont détruit les structures économiques et éducatives au cours des guerres coloniales, condamnées  par la morale et par l'éthique, Au sein de l'Unesco, ces pays devraient fournir au Directeur géné-  ral les moyens nécessaires pour contribuer à l'édification de structures éducatives et sociales  adaptées aux réalités objectives et aux options fondamentales de ces Etats qui, comme le  Mozambique, l'Angola ou la Guinée-Bissau, ont conquis, par le sacrifice des meilleurs de leurs  fils, le droit à la vie dans la justice, la liberté et la dignité.
45.34 A ce stade, j'aimerais faire quelques commentaires sur un problème fondamental qui  retiendra tout particulièrement l'attention de cette Conférence générale. En effet, pour les Etats  africains et pour le Tiers Monde d'une manière générale, l'information, telle qu'elle a été utilisée  ces dernières années, a contribué à prolonger la domination coloniale et à présenter au reste du  monde une image peu conforme aux réalités objectives de nos pays. Le silence imposé par ceux  qui contrôlent l'information n'a pas permis à la conscience universelle d'apprécier à leur juste  valeur les efforts et les sacrifices des peuples dont la lutte armée avait pour but de rendre à ces  peuples leur droit à la souveraineté nationale, à la dignité et à la justice sociale. Une information  plus objective aurait permis à la communauté des nations de mieux apprécier les sacrifices con-  sentis parla Guinée-Bissau du fait de la priorité qu'elle accorde à l'éducation de son peuple dans  la ligne de ses options révolutionnaires.
45,35 La victoire de nos peuples et notre accession à la vie internationale n'ont pas empêché ces  mêmes moyens d'information de porter sur nos pays des jugements intolérables. Cette informa-  tion déformée a largement contribué non seulement à une méconnaissance de nos pays, mais aussi  à la création de graves malentendus qui ont constitué des obstacles majeurs à une coopération in-  ternationale authentique.
45.36 Aussi était-il logique que les chefs d'Etat et de gouvernement des pays non alignés se  saisissent de ce problème pour décider la mise en place d'un nouveau système d'information dans  lequel le Tiers Monde jouera le rôle qui lui revient pour une meilleure compréhension entre les  hommes et les nations. Il va sans dire que, dans ce cadre, l'information scientifique ne devra plus  être le privilège d'une minorité mais devra viser à faire du progrès scientifique et technologique  le patrimoine commun de toute l'humanité.
45.37 En conclusion, il serait souhaitable d'une part que les Etats prennent des dispositions pour  mettre fin à un système d'information qui va à l'encontre des principes visant à une meilleure con-  naissance réciproque des hommes et d'autre part qu'ils accordent une place plus importante à une  information objective en provenance du Tiers Monde, Dans ce cadre, l'Unesco, par la nature  même de sa mission, peut et doit jouer un rôle important dans la recherche d'une information qui  ne soit plus orientée de manière négative par une minorité soucieuse de ses seuls intérêts maté-  riels ou stratégiques.
45.38 Monsieur le Président, étant donné que l'éducation est un acte essentiellement politique,  selon notre point de vue, c'est notre devoir, tant dans le cadre de l'éducation formelle que dans  celui de l'éducation permanente, de former des Africains engagés pour servir les idéaux de l'unité  africaine, et prêts à apporter leur contribution à l'approche révolutionnaire des pays du Tiers  Monde et de toutes les forces progressistes du monde.
45.39 C'est dans ce contexte que nous saluons fraternellement l'admission de nouveaux Etats  membres au sein de 1'Unesco, tels que le Mozambique, la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guinée, le Surinam,  la Grenade et les Seychelles et souhaitons avec force que cette assemblée se prononce pour l'admis-  sion du vaillant peuple de la République populaire d'Angola.
45.40 C'est en considérant cette aspiration des peuples à leur libération, c'est en appuyant les  efforts des peuples épris de paix et de liberté, en les aidant à reconquérir leurs droits, leur  dignité, leur voix, c'est en condamnant de toutes nos forces le mépris des Africains mais aussi  le mépris de l'humanité tout entière dont vient de témoigner une fois de plus l'Afrique du Sud en  créant le bantoustan du Transkei, que nous instaurerons finalement un nouvel ordre économique  international qui devra être fondé sur le respect entre les hommes et les nations.
45.41 Je ne saurais terminer sans exprimer à cette Conférence générale et à l'Unesco nos mei] -  leurs voeux de plein succès pour la concrétisation des aspirations de nos peuples à la paix, à la  liberté et à la fraternité. Vive la dix-neuvième conférence ! Vive le trentième anniversaire de  l'Unesco ! Vive la République du Kenya ! À luta continua ! No pintcha !
(46) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of Guinea Bissau, I give the floor to the Honourable Reginald Prentice  Minister for Overseas Development, head of the delegation of the United Kingdom.
47,1 Mr, PRENTICE (United Kingdom):  Mr, President, may I begin by saying that I understand that news arrived this morning of a  serious earthquake in Indonesia, and on behalf of my delegation and, I am sure, on behalf of the  whole Conference, I think we would wish to say to our colleagues from the Indonesian delegation  that we wish them to accept our deep sympathy, and we extend that sympathy to those who are  suffering from this catastrophe.
47,2 Sir, my country has very close and friendly relations with Kenya and it gives me particular  pleasure to be in Nairobi for this Conference and to congratulate the Honourable Taaitta Toweett  on his election as President of the Conference, May I go on also to welcome the countries that  have recently joined Unesco and that are attending this Conference for the first time and, if I may  particularize, may I welcome the two new Commonwealth members - Grenada and Seychelles,
47,3 I last had the privilege of addressing this Conference at the fifteenth session, in Paris in
1968. I reread what I said on that occasion - I think it is a bad habit in politicians to reread their  speeches, but we nevertheless do it from time to time - and I was rereading in particular what I  said about the role of Unesco in development, At that time many people believed that the climate  of world opinion in relation to the promotion of development was becoming progressively less  favourable. I ventured at the time to challenge that view, and said that those who attend confer-  ences of this kind must try to be "evangelists as well as being experts'', and must work to create  support for the expansion of development programmes in the years ahead, I think thät is just as  true today; but I think we can take some satisfaction in realizing the extent of the change of the  climate of opinion over the past eight years, and in noting and welcoming the deep concern of the  United Nations system to help bring about economic and social change, I said eight years ago that  we in the United Kingdom thought that in general terms the programmes of Unesco were on the  right lines. I think we could say that today with even more conviction,
47,4 This general debate has to be wide-ranging because we have a duty to help the Director-  General to give Unesco its proper setting and role in relation to the creation of a new international  economie and social order. The Director-General and his colleagues have provided us with rich  documentary material in documents C/5 and C/4 and also in the publication “Moving Towards  Change". We cannot cover all the aspects of our interventions in this general debate, For instance,  I do not want today to talk in detail about the relationship between the two papers to which I referred,  the relationship between the immediate two-year programme and the Medium -Term Plan, I think  we shall have a long way to go in these matters and, where we think there are defects, I can assure  you that my delegation will certainly try to point them out in the Commission discussions, But, on  the whole, a tremendous amount of progress has been made in the past two years, and the Director-  General deserves the congratulations of all of us at this Conference.
47.5 In particular I should like to thank the Director-General for his Introduction to document
19 C/4, because it deals very clearly - and I think correctly - with some of the problems felt by  those who have been associated with Unesco over the years and are anxious that, in trying to do  full justice to the immense tasks that confront it in relation to development, and in relation to  changes in the economic and social relations between countries, Unesco should not neglect its  original role of international intellectual co-operation, On this point I think it is important that  we should not create false dichotomies or false choices. The Director-General has avoided this  in his Introduction to the document to which I referred. I endorse everything that he says about  the interdependence of societies and about the inequalities which exist throughout the world and  which, indeed, have now reached unprecedented dimensions, Our major goal must still be to re-  move these inequalities not only between nations but also between groups and individuals within  nations.
47,6 It is against this background that I should like to give general support to the proposals in the  sphere of education and to underline one or two specific aspects of those proposals, in particular  the need to try to promote the equality of opportunity for those groups in societies around the world  who are getting unfair treatment at the moment; and particularly I think that we should take account  of what is said in this document and what has been said so often at this Conference, about the need  to promote equality of opportunity in education for women and girls. I think the whole Conference  was impressed by the speech this morning of the distinguished representative of the United Republic  of Cameroon on this important topic, and what she said will be echoed by many others.
47.7 Tam particularly pleased at the increased attention to be paid to the social sciences and io  culture because development must never be a purely economic, physical and materialistic matter.  Economic growth in the developing countries has brought big problems on which those countries  stand urgently in need of help, so that they can tackle them from within and, fundamentally, se  that they can tackle them on the basis of their own resources. I refer in particular to the question
472        of "endogenous" development and the question of cultural identity. It is vital to repeat that Unesc 10  should not be regarded - if it has ever been so regarded - as an intrument for im an Western ;  cultures and Western thought processes on the rest of the world. No part of the serie and I em-  phasize - no part of the world should seek to impose its standards on any other part,
47,8 There is another world problem on which I should like to make a few remarks, Unesco's  role in the promotion of international instruments - declarations and recommendations - is prob-  ably unique in the United Nations system, and the moral authority of many of these instruments is  great. We do sometimes wonder however whether we have not reached a point of trying to do too  much too quickly, One item on the Conference agenda concerns a declaration on race and racial-  ism, My Government is among those which consider that we have collectively not yet achieved  enough preparatory work for this Conference to be able to adopt a recommendation which would  command the maximum support. For that reason we think Unesco should wait two more years  but only in order that what we finally say should command greater support and have greater effect.  I would not want to leave this Conference in any doubt at all about the United Kingdom's utter detes-  tation of racial discrimination, of apartheid and racialism in all its forms throughout the world.  The elimination of these evil practices and attitudes must remain a major preoccupation for Unesco.  It has already done a great deal of good and influential work on race relations, which is to its cre-  dit, but much more needs to be done, not only by this Organization, but by all others, nationally  and internationally, in the years ahead,
47,9 I should like now to make a few brief remarks about the role of the mass media in connection  with agenda item 69. I am in full agreement with what my colleague, the Federal German Minister,  said last week when he drew attention to Article 1 of the Constitution which entrusts Unesco with  promoting the free flow of ideas.. In Britain, as in many other countries, we are firm believers in  the right of free speech, and in the freedom of the press and other media, These concepts should  be paramount in considering the issue raised on the agenda as item 69, Against this background,  Ihave studied with considerable interest various proposals which have been made for strengthen-  ing the information infrastructure available to developing countries, I fully accept that this is an  important area for developing countries and that it is one in which their needs are not fully met  under existing arrangements, My delegation will follow with close interest the discussions on this  topic, and I can assure the Conference that we shall look at the matter in a helpful and construc-  tive spirit.
47,10 My Government wants to give full support to Unesco because support for the whole United  Nations system is fundamental to its policy - not only support for the General Assembly, but sup-  port for the work of the agencies, In this connection I am glad to be able to tell the Conference  that in the past year, and within the limit of the money available to us for our aid programme, we  have been able to give substantial additional support to the United Nations Development Programme  and also to some of the other specialized funds. I know that there have been problems in relations  between the agencies and UNDP but I believe that these are on the way to being sorted out in the  direction of a right solution, Whatever the source of funding of technical co-operation - either by  UNDP or through other sources in the agencies - UNDP must surely continue to play the key role  of co-ordinator on the ground at country level,
47,11 There is one other financial matter to which I must of course refer, It is that of the pro-  posed budget for 1977-1978. This has raised difficulties for my Government because the overall  financial increase proposed is more than 30 per cent above that for 1975-1976, But we recognize  that the Director-General really has tried to balance, on the one hand the immense needs of  Member States particularly the developing countries, and on the other hand the financial burden  on Member States. Taking all things into consideration, my Government will be able to support  a provisional budget level of $224,413,000, Also in relation to finance, we cannot overlook the  very great difficulties which have arisen in 1975-1976 because of disruption in the normal flow of  contributions on which the Organization depends to carry out its programmes, The Director-  General and his colleagues have worked wonders in devising arrangements and in making economies.  But Unesco cannot continue in this situation; and so I hope profoundly that the decisions we shall  take at this Conference will be such as to enable a quick resumption of the normal flow of money  into the treasury of the Organization,  verriding importance of Unesco's work for developing  countries, Despite all our efforts, the most important single political fact of puritime =  the growing gap in living standards, and in the growing gap in opportunities, between he EY ns  and the poorest members of the human family, It is a tragedy that grows in scale os-  ive growth of the world population, Each succeeding year produces more RS = in  more people living in rural poverty, more teenaged unemployed, more people ye us  write. It is against that background that my Government, faced recently with an Es ,  reduce public expenditure because of our own financial difficulties, decided it wou E e ee Pre  cut our plans for development assistance. Our Overseas Development Assistance ; ct  almost the only major spending programme which was not cut during the very painfu  we had to make in the course of this public expenditure exercise. I say that with pute pri ait  certainly without any complacency. In the future we must do rely MOT Es se on er A  with developed economies. But, when we speak of development, particularly a he : pe  Unesco conference, we are not simply speaking in material terms. Hs se ve life of  With increasing the gross national product, We are surely concerned wie FEES
47,12 Let me conclude by underlining the o
10 each individual citizen; with creating an environment in which he or she can attain a higher leve]  of self-fulfilment. Economic expansion and educational progress must go hand in hand, Each can  help promote the other, The contribution of all our countries towards development, and partiey.  larly the contribution we make through our membership of Unesco, must be directed towards noth-  ing less than the enlargement of human dignity all over the world,
(48) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of the United Kingdom. The delegation of Indonesia wishes tg make  a brief comment on the opening remarks of the last speaker. I give the floor to H.E. Mr. Soepojo  Padmodipoetro, delegate of the Republic of Indonesia,  STATEMENT BY THE DELEGATE OF INDONESIA/DECLARATION DU DELEGUE DE  L'INDONESIE/DECLARACION DEL DELEGADO DE INDONESIA/ 3ASIBIEHUE IEJIETATA  HHIOHE3HH Lewy Lg iad 5 lu
49, Mr. PADMODIPOETRO (Indonesia):  Mr, President, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, may our delegation express, on  behalf of the Government of Indonesia, our sincere gratitude for the sympathy expressed by the  distinguished delegate of the United Kingdom on behalf of the General Conference concerning the  disastrous earthquake which has occurred in West Irian, Indonesia, of which we learnt from this  morning's paper. We are convinced that your deep sympathy and sharing will lighten the burden  and hardships of the people of that area, Our delegation will transmit your deep sympathy to our  Government, Thank you very much,  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)/ DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)/DEBATE  DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuaciôn)/OBCYXIEHHE BOINPOCOB OBEN IOIATUKHA  (mpo moyxeHue ) ( &b ) paie]
(50) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Indonesia. I give the floor to H.E. Mr. Trpe Jakovkevski, President of the  Federal Committee for Science and Culture, Member of the Federal Executive Council, head of the dele-  gation of Yugoslavia,
51,1 Mr, JAKOVLEVSKI (Yugoslavia) (Speech delivered in Serbo-Croat, English text supplied):  Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, first, to congratul-  ate you, Mr. President, on your election to the highest office of this session, the importance of  which is all the greater as it is being held on the soil of Africa whose freedom-loving peoples are  administering final blows to the last bastions of colonialism and racism, We are convinced that,  thanks to your great experience, ability and knowledge, you will successfully accomplish the  responsible task that has been assigned to you. I avail myself of this opportunity to thank, on  behalf of the Yugoslav delegation as well as on my own behalf, the people and Government of Kenya  for the warm and friendly reception, for the exceptional attention and hospitality, and for the efforts  undertaken to provide all the conditions necessary for our successful and fruitful work, We hope  that this session will give us an opportunity to understand better and to see more clearly the prob-  lems, needs and creative possibilities of the peoples of this great continent, and to endeavour to  translate what we have learnt into practical action in the field of education, science, culture and  communication between peoples and nations,
51,2 It is a special pleasure for me to greet the new members of Unesco: Mozambique, Seychelles,  Grenada, Surinam and Papua New Guinea, Our Organization has once more paid due tribute to the  struggle of the peoples of these countries for freedom and has made a new and important step for-  ward in the fulfilment of the principle of universality, There is no doubt that we shall soon, by the  admission of Angola to Unésco, further affirm the principles and objectives of the Constitution of  our Organization, I wish to express our great satisfaction at seeing, in our midst, the delegatior  of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam which is participating for the first time in our work as à full-  fledged member.
51,3 Mr, President, I should like, in particular, to thank the Director-General, Mr, M'Bow, for  his inspiring statement and a very comprehensive report, which deserve the fullest possible atten  tion in our search for optimal solutions to many problems we are going to consider at this very  important session of the General Conference, The time that has elapsed has been rich in events
474         of great significance for the development of international relations and for Unesco activities, The  image of the world has greatly changed since the foundation of Unesco. Inspired by the idea of  national independence and equality, the peoples in various parts of the world are breaking down the  resistance of colonial and neo-colonial forces and are achieving their century-long RA =  liberation from dependence, subjugation and exploitation, A great number of newly-liberated  countries have appeared on the world scene; they have chosen, almost without exception, an inde-  pendent way of social development and have opted for the policy of non-alignment in international  relations. The process of economic emancipation is spreading and, in spite of temporary slow-  downs, it is gaining momentum, Power relationships in the world have further changed in favour  of those fighting for peace, independence, equality and mutually beneficial cooperation. The poli-  tical and economic independence and the equality of all peoples and States are becoming essential  components of contemporary development and the only authentic basis on which to build stable and  lasting peace, confidence and co-operation among peoples as well as truly democratic international  relations.
51,4 The process of détente is continuing but is limited in its content, and territorially it does not  yet offer a guarantee of peace and security for all peoples. Nevertheless, it is encouraging to see  that this process is overstepping the narrow bounds of great powers’ relationships and that an ever-  growing number of countries are effectively engaging in this process on the basis of principles of  active and peaceful coexistence, This is undoubtedly due to a great extent to the work of non-  aligned and other countries which have achieved their indispensable unity of action and have  strengthened their solidarity and their ability to act and influence contemporary international trends,  The Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe represents a significant achievement inthe  process of détente, but all the expected positive effects of this Conference have so far failed to  materialize, especially those involving matters of general interest to the world community, such  as: contributions to the solving of development problems, decolonization, disarmament and prob-  lems in regions directly connected with Europe, especially in the Mediterranean, It is, therefore,  necessary to take steps to implement as quickly and as completely as possible those decisions of  the Helsinki Conference which are of broader interest, The Conference of European countries  which will take place next year in Belgrade provides an opportunity to promote even further  European and international co-operation in general, Unesco, having made a great contribution  to the promotion of co-operation and understanding in Europe should, in future, also play a posi-  tive role and continue to make its contribution to efforts aimed at achieving such aims,
51,5 A substantial degree of success has been achieved in the strengthening of our common aware-  ness of the necessity for profound reforms of the system of international economic relations, A  very broad campaign of action, deserving our full attention, has been undertaken with a view to  establishing a new economic order and the democratization of international relations in general -  a plan of action to which Unesco is giving its valuable support. The struggle for political and econ-  omic emancipation is confronted with the resistance of forces of imperialism, domination and  exploitation, not willing to reconcile themselves to the loss of their monopolies and privileged  positions, They strive to check the process of essential transformation of international relations,  to slow down the liberation and emancipation of peoples and countries, to hinder the social and  economic development and, especially, to hamper the anticolonial revolution and the expansion of  economic and cultural decolonization as well as decolonization in the field of information, That is  why it is not yet possible to eliminate the existing crises and hotbeds of unrest in the Near East,  South Africa, Cyprus, Chile, Korea and elsewhere,
51,6 International organizations are under pressure and a well-organized campaign is being led  against them, motivated by narrow political and other interests and aimed at discrediting those  organizations in the eyes of the public opinion of some countries and, if possible, in general.  Threats have become increasingly frequent. This has especially been felt in the case of Unesco  which has recently been exposed to pressures and even to threats because of its regular activities  in helping developing countries to formulate their policies in the field of information, to set up  national or regional institutions and services, and to take steps to equip themselves to participate,  on a footing of complete equality, in the exchange of information, The so-called "irresponsible  majority" is being accused of carrying out a politicization of international organizations, and an  organized opposition to this has been openly advocated. Allow me, Mr, President, to say the  following in connection with this problem: we are not in favour of confrontation as we consider  that it does not lead to widely acceptable and lasting solutions and is, therefore, in nobody's inter-  est, We have been, and still are, ready to offer our contribution towards a joint search for ways  and solutions which would avoid confrontation or alleviate them as much as possible, This, how-  ever, is not possible under conditions of threats and pressures which are being used in the name  of a struggle against the alleged politicization of Unesco, It is even less possible in a situation in  which co-operation in international organizations is being conditioned by concessions which, in fact,  would amount to a negation of equal rights of all and which would turn international organizations  into instruments for achieving narrow interests and objectives of a policy which is incompatible  with the needs and requirements of the time we are living in, I should like to add that what is at  issue is not a struggle against the politicization of Unesco, as is often said but, on the contrary,  an effort to maintain the possibility of using Unesco as an instrument serving certain narrow poli-  tical interests and safeguarding acquired and privileged positions in the fields of communication,  Science, education and culture, If there is political goodwill and readiness for co-operation, it is  Possible, we are convinced, to find adequate and acceptable solutions for problems which presently
10   divide us, provided, of course, that they are approached with a genuine desire and readiness to  reach solutions by negotiation, agreement and co-operation in an atmosphere of mutual understang  ing and confidence,
51.7 Mr. President, it is well known that, for the past two years, some elements in Western  countries have been leading a merciless campaign against Unesco in the name of the Protection of  Israel which has been proclaimed a victim, while, at the same time, they ignore the year-long  suffering of the Arab, and especially the Palestinian, populations which are the true victimg of the  Israeli aggression and occupation, The documents submitted to this Conference, along with the  information given in the statement by the Director-General, show, quite clearly that Israel has  done nothing up to the present time to implement many of the regulations and resolutions of the  General Assembly of the United Nations and the General Conference of Unesco, including those  concerning protection of the status of Jerusalem and assurance of the right to education and cul-  ture for the Arab population in the occupied territory, in accordance with a proper respect for  their national identity. This population has, on the contrary, been exposed to merciless violence  and discrimination as well as to a systematic, organized assimilation, It must be clear to Israe]  as well as to all those who encourage and help such behaviour, that continuation of the policy of ;  occupation of Arab territory, negation of the Arab Palestinian population's basic and legitimate  rights to their fatherland, and disrespect for the resolution of a world organization, must meet  with general opposition and condemnation and must lead to an even greater isolation of Israel in  the eyes of peace-loving and progressive world public opinion,
51.8 The Fifth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, recently  held in Colombo, has reaffirmed the strength and vitality of the non-aligned movement, After a  comprehensive analysis of the actual international situation, the Conference offered a platform  and a programme of concrete proposals and activities for resolving not only the problems which  non-aligned and developing countries are facing but those facing the international community as  well. Among other things, it recommended the convening of a special session of the United Nations  General Assembly on disarmament, That recommendation has already received widespread sup-  port from all progressive and peace-loving forces throughout the world. We are convinced that  Unesco, in defining and implementing its Medium -Term Plan and its biennial programme, will pre-  serve the comprehensiveness and the far-reaching character of the Colombo decisions, and that it  will see to it that those decisions and their spirit find their rightful place in the future activities of  the Organization. In this way Unesco will, we believe, contribute even more to overcoming the  dependence of the large number of developing countries in the field of culture, education, science  and communication, It will also contribute to the establishment of a new system of relations in  these fields and to genuine cultural decolonization,
51.9 Mr. President, the delegation of Yugoslavia positively evaluates the work of Unesco and  accepts the explanations and the attitudes that the Director-General has expressed and adopted in  his statement at this session of the General Conference, Unesco has been faced in the past, and  still is, with many serious problems and trials, Thanks to the Director-General's persistence in  fully implementing the decisions of the eighteenth session of the General Conference, in which he  was supported by a great number of Member States, our Organization successfully accomplished  the tasks assigned to it and assumed an increasingly important role in international co-operation,
51,10 The Draft Medium-Term Plan, and especially the Introduction to it by the Director-General,  are based on a broad approach and represent a successful attempt to express the interdependence  of world problems in the form of a synthesis, with full respect for differences where they may  exist, The path thus defined implies the transformation of this interdependence into a unity of  tasks based on perceived values and convergent aspirations, The problems involving the respect  of human rights and the strengthening of peace and development have a prominent place in the Draft  Medium -Term Plan, Development is interpreted as the development of man and as a complete and  integral process understood in terms of fundamental values and final objectives stemming from the  endogenous values, characteristic features and needs of each culture and based on the right of each  culture to develop freely. The future activities of Unesco are viewed within the framework of the  struggle for the establishment of the new international economic order which has, as its compon-  ents, a new social and a new cultural order, The Draft Medium -Term Plan represents a sound  basis for reflection in a new way on world problems in the fields of Unesco's activities, from the  point of view of the world community, bearing in mind the objective processes taking place in the  contemporary world, Our evaluations proceed from the standpoint that it is an experimental docu-  ment which will prove its validity only with the implementation of those major tasks which will be  determined by this session.
51,11 The Organization's conception of its role in the fields of the "assurance of human rights"  and the "reinforcement of peace is acceptable. We wish to point out, in this connection, one as:  pect of the objective relating to the problem of respect for cultural identity and its importance i  the development of society. Unesco can truly offer a valuable contribution by creating opportun  ties for national minorities and linguistic and ethnic groups to develop freely and equally, to study  and present their culture and traditions, thus greatly contributing to the enrichment of the culture  of the country they live in and serving the promotion of neighbourly relations and national under  standing, Experience hitherto has shown that where national, ethnic and other minorities have beer  granted a true equality, they have played a positive role in the overall development of society as
476        well as in international relations and that they can serve as bridges for co-operation, understand 10  ing and friendship between neighbouring countries. On the contrary, where the assimilation f € minorities is being affected, even when it is proclaimed as a democratie right, it is but an res-  sion and a form of racial discrimination which creates situations leading to ne aggravation wd  ations between neighbouring countries and consequently of wide international relations as well, In  our country, national minorities are constitutionally, and in practice, accorded equal rights and  conditions, in order fully to affirm their national identity, On these bases, Yugoslavia is building  up her relations and friendships with peoples of neighbouring countries, some of whom live in our  country and on some of whose territories Yugoslavs are living, Unfortunately, there are still  examples in neighbouring countries of Yugoslav minorities being deprived of basic civil rights and  freedoms and of their very existence being denied, There is no doubt that this is in contradiction  to intergovernmental treaties as well as to the principles and provisions of the Universal Declara-  tion on Human Rights, covenants on human rights and many other international arrangements which  have been agreed to by these countries, It is our deep conviction that Unesco should pay particular  attention to these issues, studying the situations of minorities, demonstrating actual violations of  their rights and reiterating the principles on the basis of which these questions should be resolved,  Unesco should contribute to adopting, within the United Nations, an appropriate document dedicated  to the protection and to the promotion of rights of national minorities,
51,12 Unesco's action in connection with the application of science and technology for the benefit  of man and society, based on endogenous scientific and technological development, and designed  to be integrated in the specific political, social and cultural context of a given community, is fully  justified. Unesco should play a vital role within the overall United Nations system in the field of  scientific development and the creation of scientific and technical potentials in developing countries,  especially in those that are least developed. Unesco should therefore make a large contribution to  the preparations for the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development to  be held in 1979,
51,13 It is our impression that the part of the plan concerning "communications between persons  and between peoples'' is one of the few areas of the Medium-Term Plan where efforts ‘to achieve  a new quality have not been fully made, The evaluation of the situation in the field of mass com-  munication in the contemporary world has not been expressed clearly enough, while at the same  time serious contradictions are still present in this field, The most sophisticated technology has  been elaborated, facilities have been created for communication to cover the whole world and for  information to become the instrument of man and society, We are witnesses to the fact that these  means are not available to a great part of mankind, sometimes because of underdevelopment,  sometimes because of the domination of outdated relations where media of communication are  developed as a means of profit, There is a real necessity for a new effort to organize the infor-  mation media and information systems in terms of human and social benefits. We must understand  the problems standing in the way of such a realization and hindering their development and give  serious consideration to the creation of a new world communications system, In this connection,  evaluations, orientations and programmes put forward at the SanJosé Conference and at the meet-  ings of non-aligned States in Tunis, Delhi and Colombo are of paramount importance.
51,14 The form and content of the "programme actions'' should be in compliance with the Director-  General's general Introduction and with the introductions to the various chapters, in order to re-  move the impression of a discrepancy between good and contemporary conceptions on the one hand,  and the poor and in many ways outdated courses of action which so often abound in meetings, on the  other, The programme of action should be presented in such a way as to identify immediately the  true quality of the activity and of the changes achieved by it, or, in other words, to build in clearly  defined methods of systematic evaluation, as laid down by the Executive Board, both during the  exercise and after completion of the programme,
51,15 Another important point is that of the method of implementing Unesco's objectives, that is,  the ways in which Unesco might cope with all these tasks in actual practice, There are different  types of tasks in the programme: some are mainly designed to initiate action, to mobilize exist-  ing forces, and to assemble generally useful documentation for the enrichment of the activity in ;  question, Such approaches deserve our full support. On the other hand, there are attitudes which  tend to exaggerate Unesco's responsibilities. Unesco has neither the staff nor the means to carry  out such activities, which would in fact run counter to currently accepted trends. Unesco, in our  opinion, must in the first place turn its attention to global problems, attempting to clarify them  from this universal standpoint and stimulate the creative initiatives with regard to them; but it  should certainly not try to become a centre of world actions in these fields. ; The world abounds  in potential institutions at international, regional and national levels, on which Unesco could call  to a far greater extent than it has done hitherto,
51.16 I might perhaps conclude my comments regarding the content of the programme with one  suggestion, That is that we must insist on selectivity more than ever before, It is obvious that  Unesco cannot cover all the needs emerging throughout the world in these fields. We should not,  Out of mere inertia, expect Unesco to answer all demands upon it by giving everybody a little. We  must concentrate on essentials, on that which contributes to a thorough transformation of existing  relationships and situations in the world, to the more rapid and comprehensive growth of the econ-  omically less developed - especially the least developed countries.
10 51,17 The Yugoslav delegation supports the proposed rate of programme increase of 6 per cent  although we have serious doubts concerning its feasibility owing to the discrepancy in the firgt  phase of implementation of the Medium-Term Plan where only a 4.2 per cent rate of increage is  foreseen, We consider that the Medium -Term Plan should constitute the basis and framework on  future biennial programmes and activities. Yet it must be flexible enough to include all changes  that might occur as a result of dynamic developments and differing orders of priorities, Our dele  gation fully agrees with the suggestion of the Executive Board that the plan should be published, .  an appropriate form in order to become available to the world public,
51,18 We have thoroughly considered the two-year Draft Programme submitted for this session  In our view it generally corresponds to the requirements of the last session of the General Confers  ence, to the most important recommendations of significant world meetings held in the period be.  tween the two Conferences, and to the objectives of the Medium-Term Plan, We especially appreci-  ate the efforts that have been made to elaborate the programme in close co-operation with Member  States and non-governmental organizations, Such consultations should be continued also in the  future, enriched by the introduction of new forms of consultation and the improvement of existing  ones,
51,19 While supporting the general programme orientation in the field of education, we wish to  see special emphasis placed on the importance of activities related to the democratization and the  reform of education as well as to the elimination of any form of discrimination. Unesco should  encourage exchanges of experience in respect of national and linguistic equality in education and  engage in the study of these questions, benefiting from the relevant experience already acquired  in various countries.
51.20 In the forthcoming two-year period it will be essential for Unesco to concentrate on the needs  of developing countries in the field of science and to pay more attention to issues involving the for-  mulation of science and technology policies, the education and training of personnel, and the develop-  ment of capacities for scientific research, the facilitation of access to scientific and technological  information, the encouragement of international and regional co-operation and the extension of  large-scale scientific programmes to include the developing countries, We also attach great im-  portance to the Second European Conference on Science and Technology - MINESPOL II - which is  to be held in 1978. I avail myself of this opportunity, as we did three years ago, to express our  readiness to host this Conference and to offer our contribution towards the success of this import-  ant gathering.
51,21 We attach special importance to the application of the social sciences and their contribution  to development, and to research for new approaches and methods in conformity with their particular  role, purposes and systems of values. The role of the social sciences is to contribute to the for-  mulation of a global and interdisciplinary approach to the problems of development and research in  science, technology and society, stressing their interaction and interdependence.
51,22 We believe that culture has been given an adequate place in the programme of the Organiza-  tion, Culture is perceived as an important component, factor and impetus of development as well  as its objective, The affirmation of cultural identity, the importance of which is stressed through-  out the programme, is seen as a condition for endogenous social and economic development which  must above all rely on the initiative of the people and must correspond to their needs, aspirations  and cultural values. For this reason we give full support to the activities designed to promote cul-  tural identity as a factor of national independence and sovereignty, without which there can be no  equitable international co-operation and exchange. Such international co-operation, however, im-  plies equal treatment and opportunities for expression for all national cultures regardless of social  boundaries, recognition of cultural pluralism, both within countries and at international level,  including the avoidance of discrimination among cultures of peoples in multinational communities,  For these reasons we feel that Unesco programmes directed to the study or presentation of cultures  should be adjusted to take account of such realities, and should be formulated in a more flexible  way so as not to be restricted by the formal boundaries of States, We also consider that Unesco  should encourage more vigorous action for the restitution of items of cultural property to their  countries of origin,
51.23 We positively assess those communication activities undertaken particularly with the object  of establishing a new order in the field of communication, providing countries with the means 5e  reinforce and develop their own communication policies and to participate on an equal footing In  the international exchange of information, using the communication technology that corresponds to  their needs, for the overall development both of individuals and of society. We consider that the  recommendations of the first regional Conference on Communication Policies, held in San Jose,  are of great importance not only for the countries of the region but in general, for the development  of new and fairer relations in this field, which is in full accordance with the principles and objec-  tives of the new international economic order. There is an obvious need for other regional confer  ences to be organized in the same spirit. We believe that Unesco should offer its full support to  the realization of those aspirations of the non-aligned countries that are related to the establish-  ment of a new order in the field of communications, backing the development of the pool of news  agencies of non-aligned countries, as well as their efforts to set up and promote their own services  and infrastructures,
51,24 Our country supports the draft budget for the forthcomin  posed amount is indispensable for the implementation of the pr  time, we underline the necessity of rationalizing expenditures  wards the support of huge administrative apparatus, missions and travel expenses, leaving only a  minor part for substantive activities. It would seem absolutely essential to proceed as = possible, to a study of the possibilities of introducing structural changes in expenditures for pro-  jects, increasing the efficiency of the Secretariat, decentralizing Unesco activities and co- R  ordinating the Organization's efforts with the programmes of work of other international.  organizations,  g biennium, believing that the pro-  oposed programme, At the same  which are now mostly directed to-
51.25 Mr. President, Ihave already expressed our positive attitude with regard to the importance  given by the Medium-Term Plan and the biennial programme to the issue of the new international  economic order, The demands that Unesco should find its place and define its role in the carrying  out of this important task have been shown to have been fully justified. The Director-General and  his colleagues are to be congratulated for the efforts they have deployed for the implementation of  resolution 12.1 of the eighteenth session of the General Conference. We are fully convinced that  the documents before us offer a valuable basis for reflection on Unesco's contribution to the real-  ization of the new international economic order, for the elaboration of concrete action which will  lead to a genuine decolonization in the intellectual sphere, full emancipation of cultural values of  all societies and overall scientific and technological development for the benefit of man and man-  kind, irrespective of levels of economie development, We believe that Unesco should encourage  in the future a broad exchange of views and research with regard to the place and role of science,  culture, education and communication, in the endeavour for the implementation of principles and  objectives of a new international economic order which will help to spread awareness and knowl-  edge in this area and help mobilize world public opinion in support of numerous activities. It is of  extreme importance in this respect to encourage the fullest commitment on the part of all interna-  tional, regional and national non-governmental organizations. We advocate immediate preparation  for the Third Development Decade which should be dedicated fully to the realization of the principles  and objectives of the new international economic order.
51,26 Yugoslavia supports the increasingly active role of Unesco in international relations and  within the United Nations system. It is solely by an active attitude and constant adjustment to the  new and ever-increasing demands with which the international community is daily confronted, and  by equipping itself for action corresponding to the most universal interests of the world, that  Unesco will be able to meet the international community's expectations and reaffirm its role as an  essential and practical instrument of international co-operation, Needless to say, we do not envis-  age Unesco as being at the service of any particular interests, either of the developed or the  developing countries. We are deeply convinced that it should become the widest and most appropri-  ate framework of universal co-operation for the benefit of all mankind. The combined efforts of all  Member States are needed if the spirit of co-operation, understanding, solidarity are to be streng-  thened in the Organization, in place of suspicion, mistrust and narrowmindedness, Our delegation  will offer at this session its whole-hearted support to efforts to reach widely acceptable solutions  and to adopt decisions by general consensus, whenever possible, in an atmosphere of mutual under -  standing and confidence through dialogue. Mr, President, I am convinced that all of us will give  unstintingly of our efforts and abilities to make this session, which coincides with the thirtieth  anniversay of our Organization, a successful and fruitful one. It will, we believe, be marked by  a genuine readiness to bring about the development of equitable and beneficial co-operation, in the  framework of Unesco, to serve the interests of peace, justice and progress and to contribute to the  creation of a better world for the present and for the generations to come. Thank you.
(52) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish): ; ; :  I thank the head of the delegation of Yugoslavia. The general policy debate will be continued at the  afternoon meeting with those speakers next on the list, beginning with the head of the delegation of Austria,  The meeting is closed.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 10  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 13,10  Bacemaune saKpsIBaeTCs B 13.10  LB da ala ES ally Bas pl asl] Se las,