Twenty-seventh plenary meeting
22 November 1976 at 11.50 a.m,  President: Mr. TOWEETT (Kenya)  Vingt-septième séance plénière
22 uosibpst 1976 r. B 11 74. 50 muH.  Ilpencenarens: r-H TOYOSTT (Kenus)  Tn En BARTER  bles Golly qv GEI guri/ miss vy  (LES ) caps dls put  DEFINITION OF REGIONS WITH A VIEW TO THE EXECUTION BY THE ORGANIZATION OF  REGIONAL ACTIVITIES (Item 45 of the Agenda)/  DEFINITION DES REGIONS EN VUE DE L'EXECUTION PAR L'ORGANISATION DES ACTIVITES  DE CARACTERE REGIONAL (Point 45 de 1'ordre du jour) (suite)  DEFINICION DE LAS REGIONES CON MIRAS A LA EJECUCION DE LAS ACTIVIDADES DE  CARACTER REGIONAL DE LA ORGANIZACION (Punto 45 del Orden del Dia) (continuaciôn)  OINPENEJEHUE PAHÏOHOB B IIEJIAX OCYIECTBIEHHSA OPTAHH3AIHEH MEPOIIPHATHH  PETHOHAJNLBHOTO XAPAKTEPA ([IyukT 45 noBecrkH qu4)(npononxeuxe)  (e255) (ILE Spat oo co A0 ) Ant YN ibis YN aan ABS pape Gilat Lis Goliad poo
1.1 Thè PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, the first item for our consideration today is the communication by the  President of the results of his consultations with the regional groups. I wish to refer to the de-  cision taken by this Conference at its twenty-second meeting concerning item 45 of the Agenda  (Definition of regions with a view to the execution by the Organization of regional activities) and  to inform the distinguished delegates that, in line with that decision, ten Member States have in-  dicated to the Director-General the specific region in the activities of which they wish to partici-  pate, the relevant document being 19 C/47 Add, These are the cases, as you know, of Member  States which had been admitted to Unesco since the eighteenth session, or members on whose  participation in regional activities the eighteenth session could not reach a final decision, or  members who have asked to participate additionally in activities in a region other than that in  which they are now included,
1.2 I have carried out consultations with the various regional groups concerned, using in each  case the procedures suitable to the particular structure of each group, in order to ascertain  their respective views on the matter of the above-mentioned applications of Member States to be  included in their regional activities. I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the task was  not an easy one. On the other hand, I am very grateful to all the members of the different groups  for their co-operation in my consultations with them. As a result of these consultations I have  come to the conclusion that the African, the Arab and the Latin American groups have no objec-  tion to admitting in their midst the Member States which have applied to join them for the purpose  of participating in regional activities provided for by Unesco programmes. In the case of the  European group, there was no objection from a majority of members of that group in connection  with the admission of Israel into their group. The Asia and Oceania group has indicated to me
27 that it welcomes both Papua New Guinea and the Seychelles. With regard to the Seychelles, hoy.  ever, some members of the group were of the view that the Seychelles would be more acceptable  in the Asia and Oceania group if this Member State did not at the same time become a member of  the African group.
1.3 I take it, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that it is the goodwill of the General Conference  that each Member State that has applied to join a specific regional group, for the purpose of  participation in the regional activities provided for by Unesco programmes, is hereby included in  that group. E
1.4 I therefore declare this to be accepted by the Conference. Thank you very much.
1.5 The delegate of the German Democratic Republic has the floor.
2.1 Mr. HEINZE (German Democratic Republic):  Mr. President, on behalf of the group of the socialist countries, whose chairman I have the  honour to be, I would like to thank you for the efforts you have undertaken to reach agreement on  a difficult issue.
2.2 At the same time I would like to express our regret that you have not succeeded, Mr.  President, in bringing the members of the European region together for a discussion of a  problem of special concern to them, As we have already stated, the socialist countries support  the principle according to which every Member State has a right to participate in the regional  activities of Unesco. There is, however, a specific case of a Member State which is not situated  geographically in the European region but which desires to participate in Unesco's regional ac-  tivities in Europe - I mean, of course, Israel. Also, I have to point out that this State cannot be  considered as belonging to Europe, not only by virtue of its geographical location but for cultural  and other reasons as well. In this case its inclusion in the European activities would only be  justified if a broad consensus, that is unanimity, were reached by all the European States. This,  however, has not been the case. That is why the result cannot be considered a consensus, This  as I am sure all the distinguished delegates understand, is due to the fact that Israel has not  complied with the decisions of Unesco and of the United Nations condemning its policies of ag-  gression and occupation. As was shown by the deliberations in Programme Commissions II and  III, it still continues to abuse the decisions with regard to Jerusalem, as well as to the cultural  rights of the Arab population in the territories occupied by Israel. I am sure, Mr. President,  that this situation is bound to create further difficulties in the process of planning and carrying  out regional activities of Unesco. I would also draw your attention, Mr. President, to the fact  that, apart from Unesco, in no other organization of the United Nations system does Israelbelong  to the European region. ‘That is why, on behalf of the delegations which have authorized me to  speak on their behalf, I wish to state that we do not believe that the inclusion of Israel in the  European region for Unesco activities is justified. It is our wish, Mr. President, that this  statement be included in the official records of the nineteenth session of the General Conference  of Unesco. Thank you, Mr. President.
3. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of the German Democratic Republic and take note of his  request. I now give the floor to the delegate of Burma.
4, Mr. UTHET TUN (Burma):  Mr, President, on behalf of the Asian group may I seek a clarification from you whether the  Seychelles has opted for the African group or Asia and Oceania for regional activities?
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  The best way for me to give you the clarification that you want is to repeat what I said earlier,  namely that the Asia and Oceania group has indicated to me that it welcomes both New Guinea and  the Seychelles. With regard to the Seychelles, however, some members of the group were of  the opinion that the Seychelles would be more acceptable in the Asia and Oceania group if it did  not at the same time become a member of the African group. In the case of the African, the Arab  and the Latin American groups, there were no objections to any of the applications. This means  that the application of the Seychelles to be included in the African group was approved without ob-  jection but that the Seychelles application for membership in the Asia and Oceania group would be  more acceptable to the Asia and Oceania group if the Seychelles were to request membership in  that group alone. Now that it has been accepted in the African group it is less acceptable - but it  is still acceptable,
5.2 The delegate of Burma has the floor again.
6. Mr. UTHET TUN (Burma):  Mr. President, when the members of the Asia and Oceania group met with you, I had the im-  pression that our decision was that the Seychelles should join either the Asia and Oceania group.  or the African group and not both. I am sorry if we gave you a wrong impression. Our consensus,  as far as I recall, was that we would welcome the Seychelles if it were to join our group alone but  that it would not be acceptable to the Asia and Oceania group if the Seychelles were to join both  the African group and Asia and Oceania group. Thank you, Mr. President.
7.1 The PRESIDENT:  I do not want us to re-open our discussion on this question. In the Asia and Oceania group  there were two points of view. Some said they had no objection, others said that the Seychelles  would be more acceptable if it did not join the African group. I therefore understood that it would  be acceptable for the Seychelles to join either the African group or the Asia and Oceania group in  which case the Seychelles would be more acceptable, That is the conclusion I came to in my  difficult task. I draw the attention of the Seychelles to this: that Member State would be more  acceptable in the Asia and Oceania group if it were not at the same time in the African group. I  think that should end the matter.
7.2 1 give the floor to the delegate of Egypt.
3 (poe) IS Gal gent pS 0d) ad) HA  sega! belay od 6 Lama dl old) clay LS 6 pa wis oo l ol 051 Gus I 5 da 152  ly fab Mass bie J Lac Il Jy odl pla doll dell ia Ul 5 5 used! udaad iy  ERR PSNI PRY SEERA SRCR SECT ITS Les cuop lé PR] FS | IER | FRC 1 CO J La]  clos ds AUS pH, € Lh. wile go atlllin yon dbo glug lle ibaa Lo oof il ope oy del  + los cie YN alts pleas asl 5e GEIL es Ji pd 6 pu dl 6 daw € Jolla! 5 Js os  abs J) plo Widleo GL ya IER IPCI JO. WOM CT] PCIE 51 BN PN JSC ST 0.7% SX CY) & JPN)  Sly «alt il, Maale 5 Js V Lely € 38 up Sow iia) Siinedl $I go pis V5 Ni  compl Gee 1S 1 SE l 55 Logis
(8) M. EL-WAKIL (Egypte). - (Traduit de l'arabe. )  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais déclarer que la délégation égyptienne, comme le savent tous  nos collègues, n'a pas pris part au vote de la Commission III sur la recommandation du Conseil exécutif  concernant la participation des Etats membres aux différentes activités régionales ; elle n'a pas non plus  pris part au vote en plénière sur cette recommandation ; notre position a été dictée en premier lieu par  l'esprit de Nairobi auquel nous croyons tous, et dont nous souhaitons que cette Conférence reste animée  jusqu'à la fin de sa session. En effet, sans entrer dans les détails, nous continuons, Monsieur le Prési-  dent, d'éprouver de la préoccupation quant aux règles régissant la participation aux activités régionales,  tant à la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale qu'à sa dix-neuvième session, Nous avons  toujours le sentiment que la question de la participation aux activités régionales ne fait pas encore à  l'Unesco l'objet d'une réglementation précise et rigoureuse, et qu'elle devrait être soumise à une étude  exhaustive et plus claire à l'avenir. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
9. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Egypt and I now call upon the distinguished delegate of  China,
10, Mr. TIEN CHIN (China):  Mr. President, what the Burmese delegate has just said in fact represents the views ex-  pressed in the course of the discussion in the Asian group. We hope that these opinions will be  taken into serious consideration by the plenary of the General Conference. Thank you, Mr.  President.
11. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of China and call upon the distinguished delegate of Syria.  ( tugged) dpa ig pan dl ) Use ols pS od] ad! — yy
05 cé M aie 5 70e Ye pi Baer Cad) EAE ER MIN SLE ST TR, 1 IVe  Elogmnadl LA M5 6 Bll Gy + dill ulead 5 Cri lolyal lle byaill 55 sil Jo  Lol ll Lolo 7 Wb Jlally € Jpées Abe call 5 SU 5 han ol Je le oJ Landis) inl  sie Sod ob VL WN Bo, Sout lca lutea dl Lomas og dba pula! 5 Les  com A aadl € USE. pen dl ais pop 5 SES SS
(12) M. MURAYWID (République arabe syrienne). - (Traduit de l'arabe. )  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais rappeler à nos collègues que les observations formulées il y a un  instant par le chef de la délégation égyptienne reflètent parfaitement l'attitude que nous avons tous adoptée  devant le Conseil exécutif. En fait, la participation aux groupes régionaux de notre Organisation n'a pas  pu jusqu'ici être définie d'une manière logique et acceptable, C'est pourquoi nous réitérons les réserves  que nous avons formulées devant le Conseil exécutif ; nous les considérons comme des réserves fonda-  mentales qu'il faudrait étudier, de telle sorte que la participation aux activités régionales soit organisée  d'une façon claire et rationnelle à la satisfaction de tous. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
13. The PRESIDENT: din  I thank the distinguished delegate of Syria and call upon the distinguished delegate of Yugo-  slavia to take the floor.
14, Mr. BOZOVIÉ (Yugoslavia): ;  I would first of all like to thank you, Sir, for the way in which you have dealt with this |  matter since it came into your hands. Mr. President, this debate now, or series ofexplanations,
27 which is the direct result of a development in the very beginning when we started dealing with thig  question, could have been avoided and we hoped that it would. But now that it is not, we have to  make our attitude clear. Were the question of Israel's participation in the European regional  activities not put in such a highly political context, and were it not Israel that is in question, we  would have approached this problem as a purely technical one. But, Mr. President, it has been  approached by others and dealt with in a purely political manner. That being so, and in view of  the policy of Israel in the Middle East, its obstinate refusal to co-operate with the United Nationg  and its Specialized Agencies, and some of its actions in the not so distant past, we do not believe  that allowing Israel to participate in the European regional activities is justified - even if there  were no such activities in the past two years and might be only one in the next two. Thank you,  Sir.
15. The PRESIDENT:  May I thank the distinguished delegate of Yugoslavia, The delegate of Iraq has the floor,  (Sad) pte lose andl _ yy  dod) gy BIEN Si 6 pid) 6 dm alot Libs Lodply Lil, yet 1 Be SL ut I 5 de 150  UF) (0 SP ROC UW BL NS Quel Joli US Le, 5 LSC TN L SR CR BRIT WI  dl dhl idle 59 6 LES I asl idle Jb ls Yi asad Bobadly plan! oF Ltel & wld es,  RE RE i EE Pa) so dass Joes € Las! REL Léa CID PR Gil 115 dus Ÿ  JOR ICS [R°1 J FOP. DUPRE | 1 WII Ass PION | ely à sl pas pas y hé ab lie, 0 Lili Je  Lol ball ddl 6 de pls oo Jaiss ŸÀ Cas âge V2 leger l Jl Las Yi "Las Jp od gin oF iis gas  Sy Ene Gl LS Er Lie Sebin il a los Lisa
(16) M. HIDAR (Irak). - (Traduit de l'arabe. )  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Nous avons déjà exprimé notre avis et précisé notre attitude au sujet  de cette affaire, aussi bien à la Commission III qu'en séance plénière, Nous voudrions rappeler briève-  ment que nous nous étions félicités de la participation de nouveaux Etats aux groupes définis en vue des  activités régionales ; nous avions cependant considéré, dans le même temps, que les normes et principes  adoptés n'étaient pas applicables dans un seul cas : celui d'Israël qui n'exécute pas les résolutions de  l'Organisation, qui n'appartient pas géographiquement à l'Europe et qui continue d'occuper le territoire  d'autrui. La déclaration du représentant de la République démocratique allemande concernant l'absence  de consensus à ce sujet au sein du groupe européen, confirme le bien-fondé de notre objection. Nous  estimons que le droit des Etats membres de participer aux groupes régionaux ne doit pas être dissocié de  leurs obligations vis-à-vis de l'Organisation et de son Acte constitutif. Merci.
17. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Iraq and call upon the distinguished delegate of Cuba,
(18) M. LE RIVEREND (Cuba). - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais simplement faire une déclaration au sujet de l'inclusion  d'un certain Etat membre dans le groupe d'Europe. Nous pensons, comme nous l'avons déjà dit en plu-  sieurs occasions dans différents organes de l'Unesco, que ce qui est proposé, c'est bel et bien d'inclure  dans ce groupe un pays qui a enfreint à maintes reprises les accords de l'Unesco, Nous considérons que  ce n'est pas là le meilleur moyen d'aider à la solution des problèmes qui se posent à la communauté inter-  nationale et à l'Unesco elle-même. Nous souhaitons d'autre part répéter que le principe invoqué nous  paraft correct, même si nous considérons que son application est, dans le cas présent, loin d'être sou-  haitable. Nous désirons enfin faire nôtres les paroles de l'orateur qui a demandé que l'Organisation étudie  soigneusement les conditions qui devraient être requises pour l'admission d'un pays dans un groupe dont  il ne fait pas géographiquement partie, Voilà, Monsieur le Président, ce que j'avais à dire au nom de ma  délégation. Je vous remercie.
19. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Cuba and call upon the distinguished delegate of Jordan.  (és Ty pall Sols. pS dl pall  «sl 95] L Ss $ SORE CU On BL € goose lie Joo 35 La) Jab oh ol F WoW ooh  sn Bly Bub lag all LL ty Lad hm ally el i Un ll iy 5,91 iy 012  Pomel Ms wll So Si Lal polly 5 Ll 5 tld 5j Je € GA
(20) M. SALIM (Jordanie).- (Traduit de l'arabe. )  Monsieur le Président, je ne voudrais pas prolonger le débat sur cette question, conformément à  l'esprit de Nairobi ; je voudrais cependant déclarer que la délégation jordanienne appuie les remarques  pertinentes et importantes formulées par la délégation de la République démocratique allemande et par  celles des pays frères - Egypte, Syrie et Irak - au sujet de la persistance d'Israël à violer les résolutions  de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco, aussi bien que celles de l'Assemblée générale et du Conseil de  sécurité des Nations Unies, et sa persistance à occuper les territoires arabes. Aussi longemps qu'un  équilibre ne sera pas instauré entre les droits et les pouvoirs d'une part, et les obligations et les devoirs  d'autre part, au sein de cette Organisation et partout ailleurs, il sera vain d'espérer une paix juste et  durable dans le monde. Merci,
21, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Jordan and call upon the distinguished delegate of the  Seychelles,
22. Mr. SIMON (Seychelles):  Mr. President, after having heard the report and also the views expressed by the Asian  group, I would like to say that the reason we applied to belong to two groups is because one-third  of our population comes from Asia and the other two-thirds come from Africa. For that reason,  I thank the group which has accepted us, the African group, and hope that some time later, at the  twentieth session, the Asian group will accept us. Thank you.
23. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of the Seychelles for his remark which is noted.  REPORT OF PROGRAMME COMMISSION III: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS/  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION DU PROGRAMME III : RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISION DEL PROGRAMA III: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  MOKJIAI KOMHCCHH [IO MPOTPAMME III: PESONDIHH H PEKOMEHTAIHH  Ehime dU SS Re
24. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, the next item on our agenda is the Report of Programme Commission  III with its recommendations to the General Conference. May I call the Chairman of that Com-  mission, H.E. Dr. Gabriel Betancur Mejia, to introduce his Commission's report.
(25.1) M. BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombie) (président de la Commission du programme III). -  (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Au cours de la première séance de la Commission du programme III,  que vous avez vous-même présidée, j'ai eu l'honneur d'être élu président de cette commission. Au cours  de sa deuxième séance, la Commission a élu comme vice-présidents M. El Fateh Ibrahim Hamad (Soudan),  M. Branko Lukovac (Yougoslavie) et M. Lombe (Zambie). M. Strasser (Pays-Bas) a été élu rapporteur.  A tous je renouvelle ici les remerciements de la Commission pour l'excellent travail qu'ils ont accompli,
(25.2) Les points de l'ordre du jour initialement renvoyés à la Commission III figurent au para-  graphe 11.13 du document 19 C/2. En plus de ces points, le Bureau de la Conférence nous a appelés à en  examiner d'autres, à savoir : le point 40 (Formes et voies pour rassembler des ressources financières  supplémentaires pour le programme de l'Unesco) ; le point 70 (Application de la résolution 13 de la dix-  huitième session de la Conférence générale concernant les institutions éducatives et culturelles dans les  territoires arabes occupés : rapport du Directeur général) ; et le point 71 (Question des organisations  internationales non gouvernementales entretenant des relations avec l'Unesco et ayant des branches,  sections ou membres liés à la clique de Tchang Kai-Chek et usurpant le nom de la Chine).
(25.3) D'autre part, la Commission n'a pas, contrairement à ce qui avait été prévu, examiné la  section 2.12 du Titre II du document 19 C/5 ; l'examen de cette partie de l'unité de discussion en cause  a été renvoyé aux commissions appropriées.
(25.4) Entre le 27 octobre et le 18 novembre, la Commission III a tenu 33 séances et s'est ainsi complè-  tement acquittée de la tâche qui lui avait été confiée. Deux points ont fait de sa part l'objet de rapports  spéciaux : le point 45, relatif à la définition des régions, au sujet duquel elle a, le 5 novembre, remis au  Bureau de la Conférence, la recommandation contenue dans le document 19 C/119 ; et le point 69, relatif  au Projet de déclaration concernant les principes fondamentaux d'emploi des moyens de grande information,  point qu'elle a demandé au Bureau de renvoyer au Groupe de rédaction et de négociation. Parmi les points  qui, comme nous l'avons dit, ont été renvoyés à la Commission au cours de la session, deux ont également  fait l'objet de rapports spéciaux ; ce sont les points 40 et 70 dont traite le document 19 C/124 Add.2,
(25.5) Les présidents, vice-présidents et rapporteurs des trois Commissions du programme ont tenu au  total trois séances conjointes pour discuter du mode de présentation des rapports oraux, pour établir la  coordination souhaitable entre tous les rapporteurs et pour fixer les mécanismes de consultation à utiliser,  après approbation des trois commissions, pour l'examen des taux de croissance mentionnés à propos de  chaque objectif dans le document 19 C/4. Il a été créé à cette fin un groupe de travail intercommissions.
(25.6) Dans les jours à venir les Commissions I, II et III tiendront avec la Commission administrative  une réunion conjointe au cours de laquelle seront examinés les points 17 et 39 de l'ordre du jour et sur  laquelle je vous ferai rapport en temps opportun.
(25.7) Je veux enfin, Monsieur le Président, exprimer mes remerciements à tous les membres de la  Commission, qui ont toujours été animés par ce que nous avons pris l'habitude d'appeler "l'esprit de  Nairobi''. Il y a eu entre eux une parfaite coopération. Les débats ont été caractérisés par une grande  objectivité et par une grande hauteur de vues. Bien qu'il y ait eu des points difficiles à régler, la Commis-  sion est arrivée à des solutions convenables. Je veux aussi, au nom de la Commission, remercier le  Directeur général, qui a pris une part si active à nos travaux, ainsi que les sous-directeurs généraux et  tous les membres du Secrétariat. Je tiens enfin à rendre hommage à M. Elliott, secrétaire de la Commis-  sion, et à tout son personnel pour la collaboration constante et efficace qu'ils nous ont apportée.
(25.8) Nous allons maintenant, Monsieur le Président, nous tourner vers le document 19 C/124, complété  par ses Addenda 1 et 2. Pour compléter le rapport qui y figure, le rapporteur de la Commission III,
200   M. Strasser, présentera a la Conférence un rapport oral sur chacun des points qui ont été examinés par  la Commission, Je vous prie done, Monsieur le Président, de bien vouloir donner la parole a M, Strasser  pour lui permettre de formuler ses observations sur l'unité de discussion 15, qui se rapporte a  l'objectif 9.2 du Plan à moyen terme et à la section 5.1 du document 19 C/5,
26. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Chairman of the Programme Commission III and give the  floor to the Rapporteur of that Commission to present the first part of his oral report.
27.1 Mr. STRASSER (Netherlands), Rapporteur of Programme Commission III:  Mr. President, in accordance with the new procedures adopted by the present session of  the General Conference, I have the honour and pleasure to present the oral report on the pro-  ceedings of Programme Commission III, which dealt with general programme matters and other  matters that did not clearly fall within the terms of reference of Programme Commissions [and II.
27.2 The work of the Commission was characterized by what has now been generally labelled the  spirit of Nairobi". A complete and often vigorous exchange of views has taken place. Many  divergent points of view have been expressed. A number of new ideas have emerged from the de-  bate. But at all times, even at moments of considerable tension, the atmosphere was one of res-  pect for the right of all members to express their views fully. In fact, it can be said that good  humour prevailed throughout our sittings; this was due to the constructive attitude that prevailed  throughout the meetings of the Commission.
27.3 Now to the substance of our work. I shall start by reporting on the recommendations con-  contained in documents 19 C/124 and 19 C/124 Add., that is to say the recommendations that  have already been seen by the Commission in their final form during its thirty-second sitting.  Thereafter I shall deal with items 40 and 70, which were dispatched by the Commission during its  thirty-first and thirty-third sittings, and which therefore could not be approved by the Commission  in their final form. The text of the recommendations relating to the last two items is contained in  document 19 C/124 Add. 2.  Discussion Unit 15 - Copyright and International Standards
27.4 As a first item, the Commission considered Section 5.1 of the Draft Programme and Budget  for 1977-1978 - International Standards and Copyright, the second part of which concerns  Objective 9. 2 of the Medium-Term Plan - Promotion of Copyright and of Access to Copyrighted  Works. In addition to documents 19 C/4 and 19 C/5, the Commission had before it four draft re-  solutions: 19 C/DR. 85 (submitted by Switzerland) and 19 C/DR. 108, 117 and 118 (submitted by  France).
27.5 After the delegations of France and Switzerland had introduced their draft resolutions, the  Commission decided to treat the two parts of Section 5.1 separately. Six speakers took the floor  on the first part - International Standards - and nine delegations, as well as the World Intellectual  Property Organization, spoke on the second part - Copyright. The latter part also concerned  Objective 9. 2 of the Medium-Term Plan, but little of substance was said on this matter. Most of  the speakers expressed their satisfaction with the programme, however, and emphasized the im-  portance of copyright in Unesco's constitutional role.
27.6 Discussion concentrated on the draft resolutions rather than on the work plan in document
19 C/5. The authors of documents 19 C/DR. 85, DR.117 and DR. 118, which concerned the methods  to be used in the planning of international instruments, were asked to produce a merged text. This  they did in document 19 C/DR. 196 referring to Project 5.11.1 in the work plan, which appears in  the recommendations, as slightly amended by the Commission, and is recommended for adoption  by the plenary by 73 votes to none, with 7 abstentions.
27.7 The draft resolution contained in document 19 C/DR, 108 related to the procedures to be  followed in the examination of cases submitted to Unesco concerning the exercise of humanrights.  It was supported by the Chairman of the Executive Board's Committee on Conventions and Recom-  mendations. A long discussion took place, which was closed by a procedural motion. Most of the  discussion concerned the use of the term 'cases' in the resolution and the proposal was made that  this term should be replaced by the term '"questions'. In the end a compromise solution emerged  in that both the term "cases'' and the term ''questions' should be used. The draft resolution as a  whole appearing in the recommendations and also referring to Project 5.11.1 in the work plan,  was recommended for adoption by 79 votes to none, with one abstention.
27.8 The recommendations of the Commission at the close of its consideration of this discussion  unit presented little difficulty. As there had been little or no comment on Objective 9. 2 of the  Medium-Term Plan, the wording of the objective and the growth rate were approved unanimously.  No guidance note is therefore required. The resolutions proposed in document 19 C/5 were ap-  proved with no opposing votes, and the work plans, staff establishments and budgets noted. Only  two observations need be made. Resolution 5.16 was amended on the proposal of the delegation  of the United States of America, which introduced the possibility of elaborating a model bilateral  agreement within the context of preparations for an international convention on double taxation.  It must also be recorded that several delegations had misgivings about the compatibility of draft  resolution 19 C/DR. 108, as adopted, and resolution 5.11 in document 19 C/5.
27 28.1 The PRESIDENT: : ;  I see, firstly, that Commission III recommends the approval of the wording of Objective 9,9  and the average biennial growth rate shown in paragraph 9229 of document 19 C/4. Are these  approved by the General Conference?
28.2 They are approved.
28.3 In Section 5.1 the Commission unanimously recommends the adoption of resolution 5.41, Is  this agreed?
28.4 The resolution is adopted.
28. 5 The next resolution, based on document 19 C/DR. 196, was recommended by 73 votes to  none, with 7 abstentions. Is there anyone who, because there were abstentions, would like totake  a vote?
28.6 The resolution is adopted.
28.7 The next resolution, based on document 19 C/DR.108, was recommended by the Commission,  but with one abstention. Is there anyone who would like a vote on this?
28.8 The resolution is adopted.
28.9 Resolutions 5.12 and 5.13 were approved unanimously by the Commission, Does the  Conference agree?
28.10 Resolutions 5.12 and 5.13 are adopted.
28.11 The Commission recommends that the General Conference take note of the work plan in  paragraphs 5008 to 5036 and the staff indicated in paragraphs 5037 to 5039 of document 19 C/5.  Is there anyone who wishes to raise a point on that?
28.12 That is noted.
28.13 The budgetary provision for Part I, paragraph 5004, of Section 5.1 is then recommended  to us for noting.
28.14 It is noted.
28.15 For Part II of Section 5.1 on Copyright and Neighbouring Rights, resolution 5.14 was un-  animously approved by the Commission. Do we agree?
28.16 The resolution is adopted.
28.17 Then we are asked to take note of the work plan in paragraphs 5042 to 5062 of document 19 C/5.
28.18 The work plan is noted.
28.19 Under B - International Copyright Information Centre - resolution 5.15 is unanimously  recommended for adoption. Do you agree?
28.20 The resolution is adopted.
28.21 For resolution 5.16 there was one abstention. Is there any opposition to us agreeing to  this.
28.22 The resolution is adopted.
28.23 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the work plan in  paragraphs 5065 and 5079 and the staff for the whole of Section II as indicated in paragraph 5081  of document 19 C/5.
28.24 These are noted.
28.25 The Commission recommends that the Conference take note of the budgetary provision for  Part II of Section 5.1 as indicated in paragraph 5040, and the total for Section 5.1 as shown in  paragraph 5003. Do we agree?
28.26 These two figures are noted.
28.27 We were also recommended to take note of document 19 C/31 concerning photographic re-  production of works protected by copyright. Can we take note of this?
28.28 Is is noted.
28.29 We now turn to Discussion Unit 16. With the agreement of the Chairman of Programme  Commission III, I give the floor to the Rapporteur to continue.  Discussion Unit 16 - Information systems and services; overall information programmes
29.1 Mr. STRASSER (Netherlands), Rapporteur of Programme Commission III:  The Commission proceeded to examine Discussion Unit 16 consisting of Objective 10.1 of  document 19 C/4 - Development and promotion of information systems and services at the national,  regional and international levels - and of Section 2.13 - Scientific and technological information  and documentation - and Section 4.16(I) - Documentation, libraries and archives - in document
19 C/5. The Commission also had before it document 19 C/42, the Report of the Director-  General on the overall information programme, and a number of draft resolutions.
29.2 Document 19 C/42 was well received by many members, who considered it clear and use-  ful, and the Director-General's approach to the problem met with general approval. The dis-  cussion showed that the setting up of a General Information Programme received unanimous sup-  port as well as the establishment of a single intergovernmental body.
29.3 There was also wide agreement on the establishment of an advisory committee, though a  few members felt that a more flexible and informal arrangement would be preferable. As to the  alternatives presented regarding the procedures to be followed for the setting up of the inter-  governmental body, opinions seemed to be divided between an enlargement of the existing UNISIST  Steering Committee and the establishment of a new intergovernmental council. There was how-  ever a general desire for consensus and several members proposed compromise solutions.
29.4 As to the place of the general, co-ordinated programme within Unesco's programme struc-  ture, there was a clear majority in favour of placing it outside the existing programme chapters.  It was agreed that the general programme would cover basically Sections 2.13 and 4.16(I) of docu-  ment 19 C/5. In this connection, several delegates stressed the need to preserve the momentum  achieved by the UNISIST programme and to retain the support of the international scientific com-  munity which had been so important in the advances achieved thus far in promoting standards,  techniques and other measures to facilitate international exchange of information.
29.5 The Commission recognized the value of the UNISIST programme in the field of systems  interconnection and recommended that its continuity be ensured within the General Information  Programme, recommending to the Intergovernmental Council that appropriate use be made of its  name, The Commission asked the Director-General to take the necessary measures so that the  General Information Programme, particularly through the development of projects within the  UNISIST programme, should provide a conceptual framework for information systems of the United  Nations family and for Unesco's activities as a whole.
29.6 A number of comments were made concerning the subject of archives; there seemed to be  a demand for a more coherent programme in this field. In particular, a regional project for  modern record management was proposed, as well as a feasibility study on regional centres for  restoration and reprography.
29.7 Other proposals concerned the preparation of Unesco manuals on primary school library  services and public library services for children; a manifesto and standards for schoollibraries;  and a feasibility study on the preparation of an international instrument relating to the status of  librarians, documentalists, and archivists.
29.8 The Commission heard the joint views of the International Federation of Library Associ-  ations (IFLA), the International Federation for Documentation (FID) and the International Council  on Archives (ICA) as well as a representative of the International Council of Scientific Unions  (ICSU).
29.9 A working group merged the proposals contained in documents 19 C/DR. 130 Rev. (sub-  mitted by France), DR. 197 (submitted by the United States of America), DR. 198 (submitted by  Egypt) and DR, 199 (submitted by Australia). The result appeared in document 19 C/PRG. III/DR, 7,  which was further amended and recommended to the General Conference by a unanimous vote, with  one abstention. Annex III of document 19 C/42, as amended, was also recommended unanimously,  with one abstention.
30.1 The PRESIDENT: ; SH :  Ladies and gentlemen, firstly we are asked to approve the wording of Objective 10. 1 in  document 19 C/4. This was unanimously recommended by Commission III. In this connection  there is a Guidance Note in Annex IV of document 19 C/124 which was approved by the Commission.  May we take note of this?
30.2 These are approved and noted respectively.
30.3 The Commission also recommended that we approve the average biennial growth rate in  paragraph 10129 of document 19 C/4. Can we approve this?
27 30.4 It is approved.
30.5 Next, as regards Sections 2.13 and 4. 16(I) of document 19 C/5, Commission III recom-  mended that we adopt their resolution based on document 19 C/PRG.III/DR. 7. To this resolution  are annexed the Draft Statutes of the Intergovernmental Council on the General Information Pro-  gramme. There was, however, one abstention. Does anyone request a vote?
30.6 The resolution with its annex is adopted.
39.7 For the rest of this unit we turn to the addendum to the report (document 19 C/124 Add, Ys  For Section 2.13, the Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference take  note of documents 19 C/DR.4, DR.13, DR. 53, DR. 80 and DR. 81 and of document 19 C/DR. 135,
30.8 These draft resolutions are noted.
30.9 The General Conference is also asked to take note of the work plan in paragraphs 2056 to
2097, the staff establishment in paragraphs 2098 to 2099 and the budget for this section as indi-  cated in paragraph 2053 of document 19 C/5. It should also take note of document 19 C/NOM/4,  May I take it that these are noted?
30.10 The contents of these paragraphs and document 19 C/NOM/4 are duly noted.
30.11 For Section 4.16(I), the Commission recommends that we take note of the draft resolution  contained in document 19 C/DR. 11 as amended by documents 19 C/DR. 201 (amended), DR. 202  and DR. 205 (amended). We should also take note in document 19 C/5 of the work plan in para-  graphs 4220 to 4250 and the staff establishment indicated in paragraph 4266 for Section 4. 16(I).  In taking note of the budget in paragraph 4218 we should take into account the fact that only part of  this is of concern to Programme Commission III. Section 4.16(II) is being considered by Com-  mission II. Therefore the budget for Section 4.16 as a whole can only be noted when we receive  the report of Programme Commission II, Document 19 C/94 should also be noted. Can I take it  that the General Conference takes note of these?
30.12 Thank you. These are noted.
30.13 In this Discussion Unit, the Commission also considered Sections 5.3 and 5.4 of docu-  ment 19 C/5.
30.14 I now give the floor to the Rapporteur to present Section 5. 3.
31.1 Mr. STRASSER (Netherlands), Rapporteur of Programme Commission III:  Item 16 - Draft Programme and Budget (document 19 C/5), Part II, Section 5.3 -  Computer and Documentation Systems, and  Item 42 - Report of the Director-General on Data Processing Services  I have to report, Mr. President, on these two items, as a single unit because they were  discussed together and cover similar ground. In addition to the text of document 19 C/5, the  Commission had before it document 19 C/43, a report by the Director-General on information  services and their development.
31,2 The discussion on this point was exclusively directed at the computer and, as could be  foreseen, was mainly of a technical nature. Questions were asked regarding the reasons for  renting a computer, its size and utilization, and criticism was expressed of its configuration, In  their replies, the Assistant Director-General for Programme Support and Administration and the  Representative of the Director-General stressed the multiplicity of functions of the Unesco com-  puter and its interconnections with other computer systems and programmes. The new structure  introduced by the Director-General, bringing the computer into a single unit with other (including  more traditional) documentation systems, received no comment from the floor.
31.3 Both the proposed resolution in paragraph 5114 of document 19 C/5 (proposed resolu-  tion 5.31) and that contained in document 19 C/43 were recommended unanimously for adoption.  Three members abstained from the vote on resolution 5. 31.
32.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Resolution 5.31 was recommended to the General Conference by 43 votes to  none with three abstentions. Is there anyone who would like to say anything about this?
32.2 The resolution is adopted.
32. 3 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the work plan as  in 5115 to 5124 of document 19 C/5, the staff establishment in paragraphs 5125 to 5127 and the  budget for the section as in paragraph 5113. May I take that this is noted?
32.4 The contents of these paragraphs are duly noted.
32.5 Once again I give the floor to the Rapporteur to continue with Section 5.4.
33.1 Mr. STRASSER (Netherlands), Rapporteur of Programme Commission III:  Item 16.2 - Draft Programme and Budget (document 19 C/5), Part II, Section 5.4 -  Public Information : 2   Under this section, the Commission considered the draft resolution contained in docu-  ment 19 C/DR. 48 (submitted by Belgium) concerning the commemoration of the four-hundreth  anniversary of the birth of the Flemish painter Rubens. This draft resolution, which had the  support of several speakers, was noted by the Commission, The view was However expressed  that Unesco's practice of commemorating anniversaries of great personalities was either un-  necessary or not entirely desirable and could, in some circumstances, lead to adverse  consequences.
33.2 An animated discussion took place on Unesco's public information activities. A member  speaking on behalf of a group of Member States urged that greater reliance for public information  concerning Unesco should be placed on National Commissions: information material centrally  produced at Unesco's Headquarters for world-wide use was rarely appreciated by local media, as  it seemed distant, uninteresting, and of little relevance to local preoccupations. On the other  hand, National Commissions lacked readily accessible general background material on Unesco's  procedures, aims, etc., which would help them introduce accurate information on Unesco into  the media. This group of Member States considered that, in the light of their remarks, more  effective use could be made of the sums foreseen in paragraphs 5142 and 5143 of document 19 C/5  for the production of radio and television programmes. Other speakers considered that some of  Unesco's public information material was too sophisticated for the broad public. The usefulness  of some of the proposed Unesco public relations activities was also questioned.
33.3 While some speakers opposed the introduction of additional European languages into  Unesco's public information activities, others welcomed the possibility of obtaining material in  widely understood non-European languages.
33.4 The "Unesco Courier received considerable praise; the hope was expressed that its re-  lative independence would continue to be safeguarded. The view was expressed, however, that it  failed to take sufficiently into account certain contemporary events and trends, and that it did not  give equal coverage to all regions.
33.5 The proposal that Unesco co-produce information material with National Commissions re-  ceived considerable support. The usefulness of the periodical "Unesco Features' was questioned.
33.6 The Assistant Director-General for Programme Support and Administration stated that  Unesco's public information programme would be reviewed in the light of the comments made and  that this review will be reflected in the draft programme for the next biennium, document 20 C/5.
33.7 Resolution 5.41 was recommended unanimously, with five abstentions, for adoption by the  plenary.
34.1 The PRESIDENT:  The Commission recommended the adoption of resolution 5,41 by 43 votes to none, with  five abstentions. Does anyone intend to say anything on this point?
34.2 The resolution is adopted.
34.3 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the draft resolu-  tion in document 19 C/DR. 48 as well as the work plan in paragraphs 5131 to 5168 of document
19 C/5 and the staff establishment shown in paragraphs 5169 to 5172. It is also recommended  that it note the budgetary provision in paragraph 5129. Are there any objections?
34.4 The draft resolution and the contents of these paragraphs are noted.
34.5 The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m,  La séance est levée a 12 h 55  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 12.55
3ace manne sakpsIBaeTrc4a B 12 4. 55 Mus.  PORN sas € reel OW EN SRR JE CT LI 5 de Nas,