Nineteenth plenary meeting
4 November 1978 at 10,05 a.m. President: Mr. AGUIRRE (Uruguay) later: Mr. LEBLANC (Canada) Dix-neuvième séance plénière
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish): I declare the nineteenth plenary meeting open. I call upon Mr. Aaron Shihepo, Assistant Secretary for International Relations and member of the Central Committee of the South West African People's Organization.
2.1 Mr. SHIHEPO (South West Africa People's Organization): Mr. President, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen: on behalf of the liberation movements from Southern Africa (namely, SWAPO of Namibia, the Patriotic Front of Zimbabwe, the African National Congress of South Africa and the Pan-Africanist Congress of Azania), I would like to convey our gratitude for this opportunity to address this august body, representative of a cross-section of human achievement in the field of education. Since contemporary human behaviour is influenced by knowledge derived from the various educational institutions in our respective countries, one can almost say that this meeting is representative of those who shape the policies of nations. It is with this understanding that we place great hopes in the fruits of our deliberations here.
2.2 At this moment in history, virtually all the countries in the African continent have acceded to political independence. One would have thought, therefore, that the question of the liberation of Namibia, Zimbabwe and South Africa is an obvious necessity which the international community could expedite by the sheer weight of the resolutions passed by successive sessions of the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies. Yet it is the liberation of these remaining pockets of colonial and foreign domination that is proving not only costly in terms of human lives and material resources, but indeed threatens to undo the achievements of independent Africa and poses a serious threat to world peace.
19 2.3 For, it is in this very area that the forces of imperialism, the gigantic octopuses of trans- national corporations have entrenched themselves. Thus, what should have been a confrontation betweeen the people of Zimbabwe and the Smith regime, what should have been a clash between the people of Namibia and the illegal occupational colonial power of South Africa, what should have been a civil war between white South African supremacists and the oppressed black population assumes the character of an international confrontation between international capital and the super-exploited African labour in these areas.
2.4 In the present context of our fight for liberation the armed struggle remains the principal form but the other forms, for example, struggle on the educational front, are important and complement- ary to the armed struggle.
2.5 Education plays a very important part in our liberation struggle particularly in achieving the mental "decolonization" of our peoples and in the evolution of a mass-based revolutionary system of education and thinking. Our educational policies are therefore geared towards moulding our people into effective instruments of their own liberation, into dauntless defenders of that liberation and creative participants in the development of their respective countries. We wish to make our contribu- tion to the consolidation of African unity and the building of a world free from oppression and exploitation of man by man.
2.6 This is what we understand by respect for human rights - the right of people to live, to live in human dignity, free to determine their own future. We cannot separate our right to freedom from our human rights and are highly suspicious of anyone who attempts to do so.
2.7 Our liberation struggle is in each case nation-wide and involves all sections of our population, including women. Indeed it is only with the full participation of women as equal comrades that we have made such advances in our struggle. In fact, in our case, it is no longer a question of men conceding certain rights to women. The women themselves, as full participants in this life-and-death struggle, simply exercise their rights as equal partners with men. What remains for our organizations is to recognize and consciously promote the right of women to participate in all fields of our activities and to seek to alleviate the special burdens of women linked with motherhood and child care.
2.8 Mr. President, the suffering of our people grows more intense as the liberation struggle advances. We have no illusions about the sacrifices which we shall still have to make before we achieve our goals; but in the name of justice and humanity, we appeal for greater assistance from the international community in order to speed up our liberation and lessen the cost of human lives and suffering for all, both black and white.
2.9 We are pleased to note that Unesco is debating the role played by the mass media in reporting on developing countries. We as liberation movements have become the victims of continuous and persistent misrepresentation by the Western mass media. Aggression by the minority regimes is favourably reported, while information on the struggle of the masses is distorted. In Zimbabwe, young and old, women and children, are being massacred in their hundreds by the white minority regime, aided and abetted by the British colonial power as well as other imperialist powers, who have armed the Rhodesian forces and blatantly violated United Nations sanctions against the Smith regime. With impunity, Rhodesian forces repeatedly launch attacks against neighbouring African States, particularly Mozambique, Zambia and Botswana. Time and again the willingness of the liberation movements to negotiate peacefully the transfer of political power to the majority has been deliberately exploited to give the Smith regime a longer lease of life at the expense of our people. The latest attacks on the Patriotic Front camps in Zambia and in Mozambique bear witness to this fact. In Namibia the South African regime has once more demonstrated its intransigence by rejecting outright the proposal put forward by the United Nations Secretary-General for the peaceful transfer of power to the Namibian people. However, the Western mass media have gone out of their way to represent the action of South Africa as a compromise.
2.10 SWAPO and the people of Namibia will never accept or recognize any election sponsored by South Africa and its Namibian partners. We call upon Unesco's Member States and affiliated organiza- tions to increase their efforts for the expulsion of the South African administration from Namibia and for concrete educational help to the people of Namibia.
2.11 So far as South Africa itself is concerned, the liberation movements are demanding that all States should implement the arms embargo and, in fact, extend it to all trade with South Africa. The fascist regime has expropriated for the white minority, which constitutes less than one-fifth of the population, 87 per cent of the land in South Africa. The South African people firmly reject any Balkanization of their country into tribal pockets called Bantustans. We call upon all governments to refuse recognition to any of these artifically created Bantustans which are imposed on the voteless majority. We demand that all countries implement the arms embargo and call for mandatory sanctions against the South African regime.
2.12 Mr. President, the liberation movements are no longer interested in pious resolutions. We demand concrete assistance. We are not particularly pleased with the present contribution by the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies, in particular by Unesco, to the solution of the educational problems facing liberation movements. Unesco's present contribution to our educational needs, especially those of refugees, works out at less than half a dollar a year per child. Hence we demand an increased assistance from Unesco for our educational programmes and we demand that we should be invited, as liberation movements, to all conferences of United Nations agencies, especially those of Unesco, that are relevant to us.
2.13 Mr. President, finally, I would like to thank those Member States which have assisted Namibia 19 to become a member of this Organization of the United Nations. This is a victory for the people of Namibia and we hope Unesco will intensify its efforts and increase its assistance to our people. Thank you, Mr. President.
(3) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish): : I thank the Assistant Secretary for International Relations of the South West African People's Organization and give the floor to Dr. Raul Casal, Secretary of State for Culture and head of the Argentine Delegation.
(4.1) Mr. CASAL (Argentina)(Translation from the Spanish): Mr. President, allow me on behalf of my delegation to congratulate Mr. Napoléon LeBlanc most warmly on his election to the highest office of this session of the General Conference, an election which represents the culmination of his long years of dedication to Unesco.
(4.2) I should also like to congratulate the Director-General on the admirable document before us. It is an enormous help to delegations to have such a coherent and succinct presentation of the various aspects of the programme, and we are grateful to all concerned - the Director-General, the Executive Board and the entire staff of the Organization - for this splendid result of their joint endeavours.
(4.3) For the first time in the history of mankind it can be said that culture shows universal traits. The discovery of ancient, buried civilizations, the progress of all the auxiliary sciences of history, the perfecting of communication media in all areas have made us into the first inheritors of the Earth in its entirety. It is therefore our task to enrich and re-create the cultural assets entrusted to us in order that, in the new era which is approaching, the abiding values of the human mind and spirit may be vigorously reaffirmed and that we may become ever more deeply aware of our role as the inheritors of 30 centuries of history and civilization.
(4.4) But just as we talk of universal culture, anxiety about the destiny of mankind leads us also to talk of a universal crisis. Therefore, any reflection about the fundamental role of culture should clearly identify the essential conditions for the growth and survival of that culture. To the same extent that the horizon is shrinking and responsibility growing, our doubts and uncertainties are also growing. The meaning of man and of his freedom is questioned and the old values which underpinned and sanctified human greatness are threatened by silent dangers. The main challenge no longer comes from the spoken word or physical power. Today forgetfulness and despair are the arms used to stifle the highest values, which are sacrificed to the imperatives of action and mere material growth.
(4.5) Two main phenomena have contributed to this state of affairs. In the first place, it has fallen to our generation to witness a process of steadily increasing depersonalization, which is destroying the harmonious balance of the social structure and gradually reducing everything to an amorphous mass. Healthy societies are made of communities founded on unifying principles rooted in society, family, community, parish and profession. During the past hundred years, society has been drawing further and further away from this ideal and is tending to break up into masses of abstract individuals as solitary and isolated in human terms as they are crowded together in their ant-like role of mere performers of a social function.
(4.6) What type of society and what type of man can be created by this malaise based on the loss of personality? Both will tend, as already stated, to suffer from a general sensation of uncertainty and hence of dejection. There will be a general loss of bearings, tending more and more towards the sort of mass- produced uniformity and sterility from which it is the mission of culture to redeem us. The other outstanding and indeed critical phenomenon of our time is the way in which science, technology and the best available social energies are being mobilized to build a world where utility is the prime criterion and "having" has become more important than "being".
(4.7) Unesco provides us, as nations and as individuals, with an opportunity to meet together and share our thoughts and anxieties in a spirit of mutual co-operation. It also enables each nation to contribute its individual answer, based on its own cultural identity, to these problems of our time. And this is essential, for if universal culture can be defined only as the sum total of local loyalties, any attempt at a collective answer will be unable to ignore this diversity of roots.
(4.8) Here Unesco has a truly noble task to perform: that of allowing each region, through its own 19 individual forms of creative expression, to bear witness to its part in the universal scheme of things. In this stimulating atmosphere of encounter and dialogue, Unesco encourages us to value what is different and remote from our own experience, to know and respect one another and to draw closer together while remaining true to our own innermost convictions.
(4.9) It was in this spirit and with this conviction that my country at the end of last year welcomed distinguished representatives of the thought and creativity of many different regions, called together under the auspices of Unesco to analyse the problems involved in the encounter and dialogue between cultures. More recently, during the month of October, yet another Unesco-sponsored cultural event, inspired by the same spirit of fruitful and enriching dialogue, took place in Buenos Aires: I refer to the international meeting of experts to discuss the protection of films and other audio-visual media in the developing countries. These cultural events which I have just mentioned, as well as many others which take place in my country, bear witness to the openness of our society and our attachment to a cultural tradition which is firmly rooted in universal values.
(4.10) Another highly valuable meeting was that held this year in Colombia to analyse Latin American cultural policie There we were able to reaffirm already established points of agreement and jointly to rededicate ourse.ves to the strengthening and enrichment of our unique and glorious heritage. We attach great importance to the results of the programme adopted for this purpose, for we realize that it is only on the solid foundations of active cultural co-operation that Latin America will be able to develop into an exemplary entity commanding world-wide attention and respect.
(4.11) For all these reasons, we cannot fail to pay tribute to the tremendous effort being carried out by Unesco in the field of culture and give our warmest welcome to the ambitious plan of action which has been presented to us, in this field, for our consideration.
(4.12) In this day and age, our heritage of culture and civilization is exposed to yet another challenge: that of nihilism and destructive violence, in other words, of criminal terrorism. Argentina has suffered in recent years from a wave of indiscriminate violence, which has done serious damage to our society. Accord- ingly, the people and Government of my country, exercising their right of self-defence, have endeavoured to restore order and to guarantee the security of our threatened community. As the Secretary-General of the United Nations so rightly observed in a recent statement, this problem of criminal terrorism, whatever its origins, is so serious and could have such grave international implications that it needs to be most carefully considered by the members of the United Nations. It has perhaps been necessary for the more developed societies to be exposed in their turn to this phenomenon for the international community to have felt more disposed to heed and understand similar situations to which countries with more limited resources have fallen victim.
(4.13) These thoughts also have their importance in the light of the attention the international community is giving to the subject of human rights in an endeavour to ensure that every human being can lead a life of full dignity. Our country is not just the inheritor of a tradition which gives it a natural predisposition for such ideals; this demand for dignity and freedom for all its inhabitants corresponds to the profoundest aspirations of the Argentinian nation. For this reason, and as given the firmness of its convictions on the subject, my country believes that humanitarian considerations of this order should not be used as a pretext for veiled interference in the internal affairs of any State, still less to enable certain people, associations or countries to avail themselves of these fundamental values as instruments at the service of their own circumstantial interests. The principle of non-intervention is one of the foundations of concord and mutual respect in international affairs.
(4.14) Argentina agrees that Unesco must concern itself with human rights problems, that being one of the purposes for which it was created and we are prepared to collaborate unstintingly to that end. What we do not believe to be acceptable is that these humanitarian considerations should serve as a pretext for transform- ing Unesco into an international tribunal, in clear violation of its Constitution and of the objectives for which it was founded.
(4.15) Furthermore, the guidelines to be applied when considering questions involving human rights should ensure: (1) the permanent participation of the States concerned in any proceedings or discussions in connection with such cases; (2) the absolute confidentiality of all inquiries or investigations (a point on which there must be no quibbling or artificial exceptions); the existence of minimum but specific prerequisites to which communication examined by Unesco must conform in order to avoid misunderstandings and safeguard the respect and consideration to which States have a right. The Organization should continue to promote the cause of human rights in a spirit and an atmosphere of friendship, without allowing itself to be cast in the role of judge or prosecuting counsel, which would be alien to its functions and objectives.
(4.16) An effort should also be made in dealing with human rights questions to avoid duplicating the work of other members of the United Nations system. In this connection, Unesco should take into account the conclusions reached by the General Assembly of the United Nations, in its discussion on this problem of co-ordination at its present session. In this spirit and with the express reservations which have been indicated as to the limitations which the Organization should abide by, my country will continue to collaborate with Unesco and give it its active co-operation in this area of human rights.
(4.17) Although culture and education had a privileged position in the thoughts of Unesco's founders, it cannot be denied that the place originally assigned to science and technology in the work of the Organization has been growing steadily ever since. This is due not only to the greater opportunities now available in this field for co-operation and understanding, but also, and above all, to the growing international awareness that knowledge and its fruits are irreplaceable elements in ensuring, whatever the state of growth in each country, satisfactory levels of economic development and more fitting living conditions for its inhabitants.
(4.18) Here we are faced with two ethical imperatives which are at the same time inspiring programmes of action. In the first place, there is the need to direct objectives and resources towards results conducive to the overall human fulfilment of the greatest possible portion of mankind. In other words, it is a question of encouraging the rational use of existing resources and endeavouring to ensure that they are fairly shared among the entire international community. In the second place, given the disparities existing today between the different countries in the field of science and technology and the difficulties which the most backward are having in avoiding all the pitfalls in their way, it is becoming all the more necessary to increase the    resources available for international co-operation and ensure that there is a sufficiently flexible approach to problems of planning, distribution and methodology. We must eschew panaceas and treat each country as a special case, with its own needs, possibilities and individual features.
(4.19) Each nation has its own priorities and therefore it alone can decide what types of know-how and technology are most suitable for adaptation and incorporation into its own development processes. From this viewpoint, there can be no doubt that the main emphasis of international co-operation should be on the various forms and levels of training for scientists and technicians in developing countries, on the establish- ment or consolidation of suitable, national science systems and on ensuring not only that access to the most advanced forms of knowledge is facilitated but that no artificial obstacles are put in the way of the transfer of skills and technology. This will enable every country to acquire a solid, durable scientific infrastructure and to develop its own unique identity more effectively. We believe that Unesco has the responsibility and the opportunity to play a decisive role in this sphere and that, as is proved by the complex action programme submitted to us, this role is likely to assume still greater proportions in the future.
(4.20) Unesco is today the principal world forum for investigation and dialogue in all the various scientific and technological disciplines and, under the wise guidance of the sector, we look forward to increasingly fruitful co-operation between the Organization and our countries in this field. Furthermore, this co-operation can be expected to assume new forms as a result of the agreements reached at the recent conference on technical co-operation between developing countries held under United Nations auspices in Buenos Aires, the objective being for developing countries to set up amongst themselves forms of technological exchange which are closer to their requirements and to their capacities for absorption and utilization.
(4.21) Likewise, it falls to Unesco to take an active part in the organization of the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development which is to take place next year. This will undoubtedly be a decisive moment for encouraging afresh, and in some cases re-examining from more ambitious angles, the whole effort of international co-operation in this field. We believe it will also be a good opportunity for setting out priorities, establishing various degrees of urgency and encouraging increased international aid in science and technology. Finally, I should like to stress the importance which my country attaches to the activities of Unesco in this sector and its eagerness to increase its participation in the activities planned for the coming biennium, whether in research, training or development.
(4.22) In the field of education and culture, Argentina gives its support to the programme set out in document 20 C/5. It believes that greater importance should be given to the plans drawn up for Latin America, many of whose countries have numbered cultural development and national education among their specific aspirations ever since they first became independent. Accordingly, and in complete harmony with the spirit of the document, we have submitted a series of draft resolutions which in our opinion would improve it in certain specific respects. Argentina is at the moment in the process of restructuring its educational plans. Some figures may serve to illustrate this point: in 1977 the number of pupils enrolled at the primary level was 3,800,000, out of a total population of 25 millions. The intensive literacy campaign, particularly in certain rural areas and in the north-west of the country, has succeeded in reducing the illiteracy rate to around 7.4%. University-level education is provided in 412 institutes or faculties belonging to various official or private higher educational establishments. The number of students in 1977 was 550,000, with a teaching staff of 26,500.
(4.23) The policy of the present Government has been made to restore the primacy of truly Argentine values by reforming the curriculum, especially those parts of it that relate to civic education, so that the student acquires an understanding of man's dignity, the values of the family and the need for social order within our overall Western and Christian vision of reality. Culture as an all-embracing expression of the activities of the mind has been and remains a fundamental concern of my Government, which is also determined to make that culture available to all, for their enrichment and harmonious development.
(4.24) Finally, Mr. President, perhaps I may say a word about the way in which we see Unesco's essential responsibilities. We believe that the Organization should continue to affirm its unique identity within the United Nations system as a privileged international forum for thought and reflection. It should encourage us to think and, no less importantly, to recover our respect for contemplative as distinct from utilitarian values. We therefore feel, too, that our programme of action should in future concentrate to a greater extent on certain essential, non-transferable aspects of Unesco's work. Let us, above all, direct our dreams towards realistic and attainable goals. In this way we shall be able to persevere in our task without setbacks or disappointments and to renew our mission of hope for the greater benefit of all mankind.
(4.25) Lastly, we think that it is the duty of Unesco in this time of urgent and often conflicting demands for action to hold fast to its concern with the essential and permanent aspects of the human condition, defending the abiding values of the spirit against all attacks. Thank you.
(5) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish): I thank the head of the Argentine delegation. His Excellency Mr. Radnassedyn Sanjasouren, Minister of Education, head of the delegation of Mongolia, has the floor.
(6.1) Mr. SANJASOUREN (Mongolia)(Translation from the Russian): Mr. President, allow me, on behalf of the delegation of the Mongolian People's Republic, to congratulate Mr. LeBlanc on his election to the presidency of the twentieth session of the General Conference and to wish him every success in the accomplishment of his important task.
(6.2) My delegation notes with satisfaction that in accordance with the basic provisions of its Constitution our Organization is exerting considerable efforts to contribute actively to the solution of the major problems confronting the world of today.
(6.3) The strengthening of peace and security among nations, further relaxation of international tensions, halting the arms race, banning the manufacture of nuclear and all other weapons of mass destruction, combating colonialism and racialism - all these are matters of the utmost urgency today and are of vital significance to the nations of the whole world. In the final analysis, the positive solution of these problems is the key to the solution of a host of other problems of world-wide scope, such as the development and expansion of multilateral co-operation in the field of education, science, culture and information and, concomi- tantly, the elimination of inequality in the social and economic development of States. Developments on the international scene place increased responsibility on Unesco, the most widely representative and authoritative of all international bodies, and underscore the need for intensified efforts to meet the major challenges of our time and ensure the growth of co-operation among nations.
(6.4) Many speakers have already paid eloquent tribute to the positive contribution made by Unesco. My delegation likewise commends the efforts of Unesco, in conformity with the aims and objectives laid down in its Constitution, to strengthen peace and security among nations as a necessary prelude to promoting inter- national co-operation in the various spheres of the Organization's competence.
(6.5) The question of education, as might be expected, occupies an important place in Unesco's activities. It is gratifying to note, in this regard, the significant actions taken by Unesco in recent times under the inspiring leadership of the Director-General Mr. M'Bow, and the growth of international co-operation in the field of education in accordance with resolutions adopted at previous sessions of the General Conference. Unesco has devoted considerable attention to such important problems as the democratization of education, the training and further training of teachers, educational planning and organization, the combating of illiteracy, the links between school and productive labour, etc.
(6.6) 1 should like to stress what is perhaps the most important aspect of Unesco's activities in this field, namely the education of ehildren and young people in a spirit of peace, which we regard as an essential element in furthering mutual international respect and understanding. Here I should like to mention the Fourth Regional Conference of Ministers of Education and Those Responsible for Economic Planning in Member States of Asia and Oceania, which was held under the auspices of Unesco in July and August of this year, in Colombo, and the positive results it achieved in furthering co-operation and the exchange of experience among the countries of the region. The recommendations adopted at that Conference emphasized the import- ance of educating children and young people in a spirit of peace, mutual respect and understanding among nations and invited Member States to take appropriate steps towards exchanging experience in this field.
(6.7) Unesco plays an important role in generating a climate of public opinion conducive to the halting of the arms race. It has already done a great deal to mobilize public opinion in favour of bringing the arms race to a halt and going over to disarmament, and we are convinced that it will continue to be actively involved in these important questions, which are so crucial to the successful implementation of its entire programme of activities.
(6.8) It is common knowledge that hundreds of billions of dollars are spent annually on arms, that hundreds of thousands of scientists and specialists are engaged in military research entailing the expenditure of huge sums of money, money which otherwise could be channelled into peaceful development. Unesco, with its immense authority, can and should exert an even stronger influence on public opinion and avail itself to the full of every opportunity to create a climate conducive to the halting of the arms race, the reduction of military expenditure and the transition to disarmament.
(6.9) The draft resolution in document 20 C/PLEN/DR.2, submitted by the delegations of the Soviet Union, the Ukrainian SSR and the Byelorussian SSR, is, in the opinion of our delegation, of the utmost importance for achieving the aim of generating a climate of public opinion conducive to peace and halting the arms race. While fully supporting that draft resolution, my delegation is proposing, in document 20 C/PLEN/DR.6, certain supplementary paragraphs which might be added to the first-mentioned draft resolution. Attributing great importance to the decisions of the Tenth Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly devoted to Disarmament, the delegation of the Mongolian People's Republic considers it worth while to draw special attention to paragraph 102 of the Final Document of that Special Session proclaiming the week starting with the day of the foundation of the United Nations as a week devoted to fostering the objectives of disarma- ment. We feel that this paragraph is germane to the work of our Organization and can be instrumental in generating a climate of public opinion conducive to the halting of the arms race and the transition to effective disarmament. And this is the aim underlying our delegation's draft resolution submitted by our delegation, which I sincerely hope will command the support of distinguished delegates.
(6.10) One of the most important problems of our times is the dissemination and content of information. It is linked to the enhanced role of the mass media in conveying to the peoples of the world objective news of events taking place in the world, in strengthening international peace and security, in promoting social progress and national liberation. Today as never before the mass media can become an important instrument of peace and social progress. This point was stressed by the Director-General in his statement introducing the General Policy Debate, in which he observed that "communication is certainly one of the most effective instruments available to us in helping solve the major problems of mankind, which are both world wide and interdependent, and whose solution calls for a converging approach: the problems of peace, security and disarmament, combating hunger, the problems of population, health, combating illiteracy, human rights problems and energy problems". т
(6.11) In the field of information Unesco can and must make appropriate use of its influence and of its means of acting on public opinion to give wide currency to the idea that the vital interests of all mankind are intimately connected with the safeguarding of peace and the liquidation of the vestiges of colonialism, racialism and apartheid. I should like to say, in this regard, that the Draft Declaration on the Fundamental Principles Governing the Use of the Mass Media in Strengthening Peace and International Understanding and in Combating War Propaganda, Racialism and Apartheid, to be examined by the current session of the General Conference, is worthy of the most favourable consideration. I would hope that the provisions of that Declaration will become standards which will preclude the possibility of information being used in a manner contrary to the interests of peace and mutual understanding among nations. My delegation supports the Draft Declaration submitted by the Director-General.
(6.12) Mr. President, it should not be forgotten that while there have been some encouraging changes on 19 the international scene, there are still a number of troubling problems such as the dangerous situation in the Middle East and in Africa. There are forces in the world working against the relaxation of international tensions which the peoples of the world are yearning for. In the light of this situation, Unesco must intensify its efforts to strengthen peace and international security.
(6.13) The Mongolian People's Republic is resolutely pursuing a policy of peace and friendship among nations in the interests of strengthening peace and security and international co-operation. The workers of Socialist Mongolia are now engaged in the tasks laid down by the XVIIth Congress of the Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party and are fulfilling the objectives of the Sixth Five-Year Plan for the Development of the National Economy and Culture. The network of schools of general education is expanding, the transition to universal compulsory eight-year education is nearing completion and the foundations are now being laid for the transition to universal complete secondary education; in addition, measures are being taken to improve educational methods and to strengthen the link between education and socialy productive work. Higher education has been considerably expanded and is playing an important role in the training of highly qualified personnel.
(6.14) The scientific institutions of the Academy of Sciences of the Mongolian People's Republic, institutions of higher education and branch scientific research institutes are engaged in fundamental and applied research in the fields of the humanities, philology and the natural sciences. A great deal of scientific research, it may be noted, is devoted to problems and subjects closely linked with industrial and agricultural production.
(6.15) A new contemporary culture has grown up in Mongolia, the fruits of which are enjoyed by all segments of the population. Our country's cultural development is inextricably bound up with its socio- economic progress, and has been further enriched by contact with the achievements of world and, in partic- ular, socialist culture.
(6.16) Allow me, Mr. President, to say a few words about Unesco's programme of activities for the period
1979-1980. We feel that the Draft Programme and Budget is basically a sound document in which due weight has been given to the decisions and recommendations of those concerned.
(6.17) The Draft Programme (20 C/5) gives fairly broad coverage to the various aspects of education. Of particular importance, in our view, are the parts of the programme related to improving educational content, methods and techniques, strengthening the links of education with active work in the community, expanding professional and vocational training, linking the school with productive labour in the course of the educational process, and promoting the role of higher education in society. Our delegation supports actions in favour of the democratization of education and compliance with conventions and recommendations for combating discrimination in education. Environmental education is likewise of the greatest importance.
(6.18) We hope that a prominent place will be given in the programme to the following questions: educating young people in a spirit of peace, mutual understanding and international co-operation and of resolute opposition to colonialism, neo-colonialism, fascism and apartheid; focusing attention on the perils of the neutron bomb; providing training and further training for teachers; promoting the broad exchange of experience and know-how with a view to strengthening and enriching national educational systems; and disseminating information on reforms that are being carried out, on new planning techniques designed to promote social and economic progress and the all-round dévelopment of the individual, and on the latest trends in educational research.
(6.19) In the field of the natural sciences, we commend the policy aimed at strengthening and enhancing the activities of the relevant sector and of the various international intergovernmental programmes. We hope that world scientific and technological progress will become accessible to Member States thanks to Unesco activities. Of especial interest is that part of the programme concerning the rational utilization of natural resources and scientific and technological research and education. On the whole the natural sciences programme is commensurate with the needs of scientific development and human progress.
(6.20) As concerns the social sciences, their role is one of increasing importance in the modern world, and we support Unesco action aimed at ensuring progress in that sphere, particularly philosophical studies and instruction in them at different levels of the educational process.
(6.21) We concur with the goal, embodied in the Medium-Term Plan, of intensifying the study of problems relating to-the new economic order, and hope that Unesco will also study the social and humanitarian aspects of that order.
(6.22) The study and dissemination of cultures, the preservation of the cultural heritage must occupy a central role in the cultural programme. Moreover, in virtue of the universal character of Unesco, due consideration must: be given to the cultures of all continents and all nations. Co-operation in the field of culture will, we feel, further mutual understanding among peoples and bring them closer together, a factor conducive to the strengthening of peace and international security.
(6.23) In the world of today the problem of the mass media is assuming great international importance. Unesco and its Member States must take action to prevent the mass media from being used as an instrument for interfering in the internal affairs of sovereign States or disseminating propaganda alien to all progressive mankind. We consider that the content of information should have priority over the means of its dissemination in tackling such problems as the promotion of peace, security and co-operation and the banning of war propaganda, racial discrimination, apartheid, colonialism and neo-colonialism. The adoption of the Declaration on the use of the mass media in the interest of peace would be a major contribution to peace and international understanding.
(6.24) Concerning the budget and the distribution of budgetary allocations among the various programmes and activities, we find that these are by and large in line with the recommendations of previous Unesco General Conferences; at the same time we hope that Unesco will take into consideration the suggestions made by Member States, and that it will see its way to adopting a positive approach to the proposals put forward at the current session of the General Conference.
(6.25) It is all too clear that the Unesco budget is suffering above all from the growing inflation and economic crisis in the West. We reiterate our support for the recommendations of the socialist countries calling for maximum economy and the sound control of expenditures at all stages of our Organization's activities.
(6.26) Mr. President, the Mongolian People's Republic will continue to develop and broaden its co-operation with Unesco. Our scientists, artists and workers in the field of public education are taking an active part in the various activities organized by Unesco. Scholars of the Academy of Sciences of the Mongolian People's Republic continue to be actively involved in the project for the study of the civilizations of the peoples of Central Asia. Co-operation in the field of the natural and social sciences and in the preservation of Mongolia's cultural and historical heritage is being planned. The Mongolian People's Republic - like all countries of the world - will organize an extensive programme to mark the International Year of the Child in 1979.
(6.27) At the time of the Director-General's official visit to the Mongolian People's Republic, in June of this year, constructive talks were held about future co-operation between our country and Unesco in the field of culture, education and science. Allow me to thank you, Mr. M'Bow, for your active and constructive efforts.
(6.28) In conclusion, Mr. President, I should like to assure you that the Government of the Mongolian People's Republic will continue to co-operate actively with Unesco and will do all in its power to contribute to the implementation of the Organization's programme on behalf of peace and co-operation among peoples. Thank you for your attention. (M. LeBlanc prend la présidence)
7. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Mongolie et je donne la parole à M. Georges Malempré, président du Comité permanent des organisations internationales non gouvernementales.
8.1 M. MALEMPRE (Comité permanent des organisations internationales non gouvernementales).- Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Messieurs les Ambassadeurs, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs, la vie internationale est caractérisée par le jeu de trois acteurs collectifs qui évoluent chacun dans des sphères différentes : les organisations intergouvernementales, parmi les- quelles l'Unesco, les organisations non gouvernementales à but non lucratif et les sociétés multi- nationales.
8.2 Les organisations intergouvernementales ont pour tâche d'aménager la coopération entre les Etats, les organisations non gouvernementales de défendre des idéaux ou des intérêts différents de ceux des collectivités territoriales que représentent les Etats, les firmes multinationales, dénommées aussi sociétés transnationales, étant quant à elles vouées à la recherche du profit.
8.3 Si j'ai tenu à mentionner ce troisième acteur, c'est non seulement dans le souci d'être complet, mais aussi pour en signaler l'importance croissante dans les rapports de forces qui conditionnent largement la possibilité d'instaurer un nouvel ordre économique et social mondial. Le document
20 C/83 présenté à la Conférence générale souligne la nécessité de recherches approfondies sur les effets des activités des firmes multinationales sur le développement endogène et la personnalité socio- culturelle des pays où elles s'implantent.
8.4 Bien qu'étant de nature fondamentalement différente et qu'ayant un statut, des droits et des devoirs également différents, les Etats et les organisations internationales non gouvernementales sont investis, au sein de l'Unesco, d'une mission convergente : celle de promouvoir l'éducation, la science et la culture et, ajouterai-je, la communication et l'information, dans le souci d'assurer à chaque individu et à tous les peuples la pleine jouissance des droits de l'homme reconnus par la communauté internationale.
8.5 C'est ainsi que l'Acte constitutif de l'Unesco proclame "qu'une paix fondée sur les seuls accords économiques et politiques des gouvernements ne saurait entraîner l'adhésion unanime, durable et sincère des peuples et que, par conséquent, cette paix doit être établie sur le fondement de la solidarité intellectuelle et morale de l'humanité”. Pour atteindre cet objectif, les fondateurs de l'Unesco ont donc recherché les moyens d'associer plus étroitement les peuples à la vie de l'Orga- nisation. L'association étroite d'organisations internationales non gouvernementales à l'action de l'Unesco lui a permis de dépasser son cadre intergouvernemental en nouant des liens avec les élé- ments représentatifs et organisés de l'opinion publique nationale et internationale.
8.6 Les organisations internationales non gouvernementales sont des organismes volontaires, cons- titués en vue d'oeuvrer à la réalisation d'objectifs scientifiques, pédagogiques ou humanitaires et de promouvoir la coopération entre les peuples. Quels que puissent être leurs activités ou objectifs précis dans les différents domaines qui sont de leur ressort, les ONG sont profondément attachées à la défense de la paix et au respect des droits de l'homme et leur action s'inscrit tout naturellement dans le cadre de celle de l'Unesco. Etant donné les différents secteurs de l'opinion publique qu'elles représentent, elles peuvent jouer, et jouent en fait, un rôle considérable tant sur le plan national que sur le plan international, apportant ainsi un complément indispensable aux efforts des gouvernements.
8.7 Conformément aux Directives concernant les relations de l'Unesco avec les organisations inter- nationales non gouvernementales, celles-ci ont la possibilité de prendre part à la définition des orientations et à l'élaboration du programme de l'Organisation de deux manières : d'une part, à titre individuel, par les échanges qui s'établissent entre le Secrétariat et chaque organisation bénéficiant du statut consultatif ; d'autre part, à titre collectif, sous forme soit de consultations sectorielles, soit de consultations de caractère plus général.
8.8 La section V des Directives stipule que les organisations internationales non gouvernementales admises actuellement dans les catégories A et B (elles sont actuellement au nombre de 239) peuvent,
706     avec l'accord du Directeur général, se réunir tous les deux ans en conférence au Siège de l'Unesco, 19 en vue d'examiner les problèmes que pose leur coopération avec l'Unesco et de favoriser les échanges d'information et d'expériences entre elles.
8.9 Permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, d'indiquer brièvement à la Conférence générale le sens de la contribution collective que les ONG ont apportée aux idéaux et objectifs de l'Unesco durant les quelques mois écoulés.
8.10 Le plan de travail qui s'est dégagé des décisions prises lors de la seizième Conférence des ONG, tenue en novembre 1977, s'inscrit dans le droit fil du programme des deux années précé- dentes : il s'agissait d'élucider la nature et les formes de la contribution des ONG à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique et social mondial et de fournir des thèmes d'inspiration aux activités futures de l'Organisation dans les domaines que je vais brièvement évoquer.
8.11 Dans la perspective de la session extraordinaire de l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies sur le désarmement, adoption, en février 1978, d'un document intitulé : Le désarmement, le dévelop- pement et l'éducation pour la paix - leurs influences réciproques. Ce document, qui se fonde sur la large expérience des ONG dans le domaine de l'éducation pour la paix, a été remis au Directeur général de l'Unesco, au Secrétaire général des Nations Unies, au Président de la session extraordi- naire sur le désarmement, de même d'ailleurs qu'à l'ensemble des délégations des Etats qui ont par- ticipé en mai dernier à cette session extraordinaire.
8.12 Le document que nous avons élaboré lance notamment un cri d'alarme pour que les trois cent cinquante milliards de dollars consacrés aux dépenses militaires soient progressivement détournés de cette affectation et réemployés afin de promouvoir des actions de coopération et de solidarité à l'égard des peuples les moins favorisés. Le document insiste par ailleurs sur la nécessité de réduire les inégalités, tant au plan des relations économiques et sociales mondiales qu'en ce qui concerne la situation interne des pays. L'instauration d'une plus grande justice à ces niveaux est considérée par les ONG comme un moyen de rendre moins inéluctable la course aux armements.
8.13 L'éducation pour la paix, à laquelle le rapport des ONG fait une large place, doit notamment mettre en évidence : la situation paradoxale dans laquelle l'humanité s'est aujourd'hui placée en se livrant à une course aux armements qui lui fait payer de plus en plus cher le prix de son insécu- rité ; la nécessité d'un nouvel ordre économique et social mondial, fondé sur la justice et garantis- sant la paix ; enfin, l'urgence de créer une dynamique désarmement/développement en substituant aux énergies de destruction de nouvelles formes de coopération.
8.14 Lors de sa réunion d'octobre 1978, le Comité permanent des ONG a pris note des conclusions de la session extraordinaire de l'Assemblée générale des. Nations Unies consacrée au désarmement. Il a été particulièrement attentif au rôle assigné aux ONG dans ce cadre. Il s'est félicité de l'intention de l'Unesco d'organiser un congrès mondial sur l'éducation en matière de désarmement.
8.15 En avril 1978, le Comité permanent des ONG a tenu un séminaire sur "les contenus et méthodes concernant l'éducation en matière de droits de l'homme", dans le but de préparer la contribution spécifique des ONG au Congrès international sur l'enseignement des droits de l'homme qui s'est tenu à Vienne en septembre 1978. S'il est un domaine où les ONG ont depuis toujours été particulièrement vigilantes et actives, c'est bien celui de la diffusion, de la promotion et de la défense des droits de l'homme. Ce n'est donc pas par hasard qu'elles ont tenu à échanger leurs réflexions et leurs expé- riences en cette matière au cours des mois qui ont précédé la tenue de ce congrès, auquel toutes les organisations bénéficiant du statut consultatif ont été invitées. A ce propos, les ONG tiennent à remercier vivement le Directeur général d'avoir favorisé une très large participation des organisations non gouvernementales à ce congrès international et d'avoir inclus les réflexions et propositions collec- tives qu'elles ont élaborées dans les documents distribués officiellement à Vienne.
8.16 Au moment où les Nations Unies célèbrent le trentième anniversaire de la Déclaration univer- selle des droits de l'homme, il est particulièrement opportun de mettre en évidence l'évolution de la conception des droits de l'homme. Il ne s'agit en aucun cas de remettre en cause les termes de la déclaration de 1948. Celle-ci demeure en effet la pierre angulaire d'un ensemble d'instruments, mais cet ensemble s'est considérablement enrichi de l'expérience de la lutte des peuples et de groupes sociaux pour l'affirmation de leurs droits à l'autodétermination.
8.17 A cet égard, la décolonisation politique de la plupart des peuples du monde et, plus récem- ment, le combat - qui est loin d'être achevé - pour l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique et social mondial qui réponde mieux aux exigences de la justice, constituent des étapes importantes dans l'affirmation de ces droits.
8.18 ‚Mais au fur et à mesure que la conception des droits de l'homme s'est élargie à l'ensemble des domaines de la vie sociale, qu'il s'agisse des relations internationales ou du développement interne de chaque société, l'écart n'a fait que croître entre les proclamations les plus solennelles et leur appli- cation effective. Pour réduire le fossé qui sépare les principes de la réalité, il importe que tous ceux qui sont épris de justice se mobilisent pour promouvoir les droits reconnus universellement à tous les êtres humains. Les ONG participent naturellement à cette mobilisation.
8. 19 Monsieur le Président, les ONG sont particulièrement heureuses de constater que les conclu- sions du Congrès international sur l'enseignement des droits de l'homme de Vienne rejoignent, pour une large part, les préoccupations exposées dans le rapport qu'elles ont rédigé sur ce sujet. Per- mettez-moi simplement d'ajouter qu'en ce qui nous concerne, nous estimons nécessaire d'établir une
707    nette distinction entre le simple enseignement relatif aux droits de l'homme et l'éducation pour l'exer- cice et le respect des droits de l'homme. L'éducation, dans son sens le plus large, est un processus permettant aux enseignés d'accéder à un niveau plus élevé de perception et de conscience influençant leur comportement dans la société, processus qui doit intervenir à tous les niveaux de l'éducation scolaire et extrascolaire et pas seulement à celui de l'enseignement universitaire.
8.20 En octobre 1978, le Comité permanent des ONG a tenu un colloque sur le thème de "l'éducation contre l'apartheid". Les travaux de ce colloque se sont appuyés sur les informations et les témoi- gnages présentés par quatre mouvements de libération nationale : l'African National Congress et le Pan-Africanist Congress pour l'Afrique du Sud, la South-West African People's Organisation pour la Namibie et le Patriotic Front of Zimbabwe pour la Rhodésie.
8.21 Les participants à cette rencontre, qui a réuni des représentants d'ONG appartenant à des courants philosophiques et sociopolitiques très divers, ont notamment : réaffirmé la détermination des ONG à coopérer étroitement avec les mouvements de libération ; demandé aux ONG et à leurs branches nationales de développer leur action contre l'apartheid dans le monde, et plus particulièrement dans les pays dont les gouvernements et les systèmes économiques soutiennent le régime d'apartheid, en, utilisant les moyens d'information dont elles disposent pour établir la vérité sur les raisons écono- miques, sociales et politiques sur lesquelles s'appuie l'apartheid, de même que sur la situation et les luttes des peuples et des mouvements de libération nationale d'Afrique australe ; invité les Etats membres à veiller à ce que les programmes et manuels éducatifs, y compris ceux qui sont destinés à la formation des enseignants et des éducateurs, fassent explicitement état de la question de l'apar- theid et des textes qui s'y rapportent, et diffusent l'ensemble des documents fondamentaux qui s'y rattachent.
8.22 Sur d'autres questions relatives au programme de l'Organisation, deux consultations sectorielles ont eu lieu, dont une, en avril 1978, sur le rôle des sciences et de la technologie dans le processus de développement. Il a été particulièrement veillé à ce que les ONG ayant une expérience concrète en la matière, si limitée ou modeste qu'elle soit, puissent apporter leur contribution à cette réflexion.
8.23 Les préoccupations exprimées dans le Projet d'ajustements au Plan à moyen terme (document
20 C/4) sur cette question retiendront sans aucun doute l'attention des ONG, notamment lorsqu'il est souligné que la science et la technologie restent encore trop souvent au service du pouvoir et de la volonté de domination. Qu'il suffise de rappeler ici que dans le monde, une grande partie des scien- tifiques et des ingénieurs, notamment dans les pays industriellement développés, travaillent à des activités liées à la mise au point d'armes nouvelles, et que la prospérité économique de certaines sociétés est largement fondée sur l'appropriation exclusive des connaissances scientifiques et techno- logiques. Il est également souhaitable que l'accent soit mis, lors de la Conférence des Nations Unies prévue à ce sujet en 1979, "sur ce qui fait de la science et de la technologie un terrain privilégié de coopération et de solidarité" entre les peuples.
8.24 L'autre consultation sectorielle que nous avons organisée en juin et octobre 1978 a porté sur les problèmes d'information et d'éducation en matière de drogues.
8.25 Enfin, la contribution des ONG à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre mondial de la communication et de l'information sera étudiée lors d'une consultation sectorielle qui aura lieu dans le courant du mois de mars 1979 et qui se fondera largement sur les conclusions de la Conférence générale à ce sujet.
8.26 Voilà, Monsieur le Président, quels ont été les grands axes de la contribution collective des ONG à l'élaboration et à la réalisation des objectifs de l'Unesco. Permettez-moi d'ajouter que cette contribution collective s'ajoute aux nombreuses actions individuelles que les ONG entreprennent dans le cadre de leurs relations consultatives avec l'Unesco et ce, je tiens à le souligner, de manière désintéressée et bénévole dans la presque totalité des cas.
8.27 Avant de conclure, j'aimerais, Monsieur le Président, aborder deux questions dont je sais qu'elles figurent parmi les préoccupations de la Conférence générale. Il s'agit tout d'abord de la question de "l'extension géographique des ONG". Les ONG sont en effet soucieuses de répondre au souhait exprimé antérieurement par la Conférence générale qui les a invitées à refléter toujours mieux la diversité culturelle du monde contemporain par la multiplication de leurs branches natio- nales, notamment dans les pays du Tiers Monde. Un premier échange de vues a eu lieu sur ce sujet lors de la réunion du Comité permanent d'avril 1978. De plus, une réunion conjointe du Bureau du Comité permanent des ONG et de fonctionnaires du Secrétariat désignés par le Directeur général a eu lieu en juin 1978 pour approfondir cette question. Une seconde réunion est prévue dans les prochains mois, sur la base d'un premier document de travail.
8.28 La deuxième question est celle de la coopération entre les ONG et les commissions nationales pour l'Unesco. Ce second point n'est d'ailleurs pas sans rapport avec le premier. En effet, la coopé- ration entre les ONG et les commissions nationales pour l'Unesco peut être l'une des modalités par lesquelles le souhait exprimé par la Conférence générale en vue de l'extension géographique peut se réaliser. A cet égard, je crois utile de rappeler les termes de la recommandation adoptée à l'unani- mité par la septième Conférence régionale des commissions nationales pour l'Unesco de la région de l'Europe (Helsinki, avril 1977) qui a été particulièrement bien accueillie par la seizième Conférence des ONG, en particulier la partie de la recommandation invitant les commissions nationales à resserrer leurs liens de coopération avec les organisations non gouvernementales, notamment par le développe- ment d'une meilleure information réciproque ; en associant autant que possible les ONG à leurs délibérations ainsi qu'aux programmes qu'elles entreprennent ; en leur permettant de prendre part,
708    au plan national, à l'élaboration des propositions transmises au Directeur général de l'Unesco en vue du programme à court et à moyen terme de l'Organisation ; en donnant la possibilité aux organisa- tions non gouvernementales qualifiées, par la conclusion de contrats notamment, de prendre part à l'exécution de certains aspects du programme de l'Unesco.
8.29 Lors de sa réunion d'avril 1978, le Comité permanent des ONG a exprimé le regret que le projet de charte des commissions nationales pour l'Unesco qui sera examiné par la Conférence géné- rale à cette session ne soit pas plus explicite en ce qui concerne précisément les perspectives de coopération entre les ONG et les commissions nationales. Le Comité permanent a exprimé le souhait que la Conférence générale puisse aménager le texte en ce sens.
8.30 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, permettez-moi de conclure en disant à la Confé- rence générale que les organisations internationales non gouvernementales sont plus que jamais dé- terminées à apporter leur soutien loyal et sincère à la poursuite des idéaux et à la réalisation des objectifs de l'Unesco. Elles ne doutent pas qu'en contrepartie de leurs efforts, elles peuvent s'attendre de la part des Etats membres au respect de leur identité, de leur autonomie et de leur pouvoir de décision. Elles souhaitent que la Conférence générale puisse dans une de ses résolutions finales, inviter le Directeur général à les associer plus étroitement selon leurs compétences, à la mise en oeuvre des programmes qui seront approuvés au cours de cette vingtième session. Je vous re- mercie, Monsieur le Président.
9. Le PRESIDENT .- Je remercie le Président du Comité permanent des organisations internationales non gouvernementaies. ORGANIZATION OF THE WORK OF THE SESSION (continued)/ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX DE LA SESSION (suite)/ORGANIZACION DE LOS TRABAJOS DE LA REUNION (continuacion)/ Cet) 52 at Jul tsОРГАНИЗАЦИЯ РАБОТЫ СЕССИИ /продолжение/
10. Le PRESIDENT.- Avant de donner la parole a l'orateur suivant, je me permets de signaler que ce matin, le Bureau a recommandé à l'unanimité à la Conférence générale de donner suite à une décision du Conseil exécutif recommandant de faire du vendredi 10 novembre un jour férié en raison de la célé- bration d'une grande fête commune à plus de vingt Etat membres de l'Organisation. J'invite le Secré- taire de la Conférence à nous indiquer comment pourra, être limitée l'incidence de l'approbation de cette recommandation sur le déroulement de nos travaux.
11. Le SECRETAIRE.- Monsieur le Président, la décision éventuelle de la Conférence générale de ne pas siéger ven- dredi prochain aura pour seule conséquence la nécessité d'avancer d'un jour le programme prévu pour la plénière. Le débat de politique générale pourra sans difficulté se terminer mercredi soir et le programme prévu pour le vendredi 10 novembre - réponse du Directeur général au débat de politique générale et adoption du plafond budgétaire provisoire - sera avancé au jeudi 9. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
12.1 Le PRESIDENT .- Je remercie le Secrétaire de la Conférence générale.
12.2 S'il n'y a pas d'objections, je considère que la Conférence générale approuve la recommandation du Bureau.
12.3 Il en est ainsi décidé. GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)/DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE(suite)/ DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacion) /OBCYXIEHHE BOMPOCOB ОБЩЕЙ ПОЛИТИКИ ‏/продолжение/(عبات)ةماعلاةسايسلاةدقانم
13. Le PRESIDENT.- Je donne la parole à the Hon. Pashupati Shumshere J.B. Rana, ministre d'Etat pour l'éducation et chef de la délégation du Népal.
14.1 Mr. RANA (Nepal): Mr. President, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen: may I begin, Mr. President, by offering you my sincere congratulations on your election to the presidency of the twentieth session of the General Conference, and say that we look forward to a fruitful and successful session under your able guidance. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the new members of Unesco, for the strength of our Organization grows with its increasing membership. Coming as I do from the Himalayan Kingdom of Nepal - the birthplace of the Buddha - I bring to this assembly not only the warm and cordial greetings of His Majesty King Birendra and the people of Nepal, but also a message of peace, understanding and compassion.
14.2 Our delegation wishes to commend the Director-General on his lucid and unsparing report on the activities of Unesco and on his presentation of the two programme documents, 20 C/4 and 20 C/5, which, among others, must be discussed and approved by the Conference.
14.3 I do not wish to take up the time of this assembly by dwelling either on the significance of the ideals for which Unesco stands or on the magnificent role it has performed over the years. Suffice it to say that our very presence is a testimony to, as well as a reaffirmation, of our faith in the Organization, the values it upholds and the invaluable role it plays in the world as a proponent and custodian of several of mankind's most cherished achievements and concerns.
14.4 Mr. President, the Draft Medium-Term Plan (1977-1982) set its objectives within "a fixed-term horizon". At the same time, the eighteenth session of the General Conference wisely included a built-in element of flexibility in the plan by means of its resolution 10.1, which permitted "adjustments of the plan ... to be ... decided by the General Conference ... in the light of the evolution of world problems". Before I comment on the proposed adjustments, I would like to suggest a more pronounced thrust in Unesco policies towards fulfilment of the basic needs of the people of the least developed countries. The concept of a new international economic order is based on the commitment: to social justice in development both between and within countries. But despite this commitment, the gap between the developed and the underdeveloped has grown apace. Today, to quote the Director- General's own words, "the ratio of average per capita income between the most and least developed countries is often in the region of around 30 to 1, rising in extreme cases to as much as 80 or
90 to 1". Thus, while in certain countries the wants of the people are so replete, so satiated that the creation of artificial "new" demands has itself become a tremendously paying industry, over
800 million people in the developing world still suffer from lack of nutrition, shelter, health and literacy.
14.5 Mr. President, all of us believe in the need for human rights, yet we do not find in practice the same commitment to basic human needs without which the tender plant of human rights cannot flourish. The degradation of poverty, ignorance and hunger provides an arid and corrosive ecology in which all other human rights must decay; and it is for this reason that our General Conference should give priority to the needs of the poorest in the least developed countries.
14.6 Consequent to resolution 10.1 adopted at the nineteenth session of the General Conference, Unesco has begun to use some of the funds released by administrative economies to meet the needs of the least developed countries, and I must heartily commend the Director-General for these efforts, which are undoubtedly in the right direction. But the Director-General would agree that a great deal still remains to be done. To help him to go further in carrying out the programme, I would suggest that Unesco's concern for those sections of the world population which are suffering from extreme deprivation be translated into a high priority, specialized programme for the specific improve- ment of their lot. The acceptance of such a notion does not imply merely the addition of a limited number of show-case programmes. On the contrary, it requires a careful re-examination of the budget of Unesco to see where marginal and low-priority programmes can be pruned to provide a substantial allocation for this area of dire need. It also implies that since the least developed countries account for the vast majority of the poorest people, the share of international resources that should go to these countries would need to be well above the average allocation to other nations.
14.7 Mr. President, the question of meeting basic human needs is not an easy one. It is difficult even to define basic needs in a manner appropriate to nations which are spread over such a vast spectrum of development. But however hard it may be to provide a theoretically satisfactory definition of basic needs, it is not difficult to see where they are not met. Where large numbers do not have enough to eat, let alone adequate nutrition; wherever unavoidable squalor, dirt and dire lack of shelter not only expose people to disease but actually thrust them into ill-health; wherever ignorance lays them open to exploitation and deprives them of the means of self-improvement, surely we have a situation which commands not only national resources and attention but international resources and world concern. I would like to make it clear, however, that while Unesco's programmes must reflect priority attention to the fulfilment of minimum needs, in the long-run the Organization must not look at "basic needs" within a static framework. A dynamic concept is required in this connection, so that while top priority must be accorded to the satisfaction of minimum "needs" - the attainment of that minimum level must lead on to the new objective of providing, so to speak, for "adequate" satisfaction of basic needs. This means, Mr. President, that we must conceive a hierarchy of basic needs - "minimum" satisfaction leading to "adequate" satisfaction and that in turn to a "sufficient" level of satisfaction of basic needs. This is essential, as a static concept of basic needs runs the danger of visualizing the solution of the problem of poverty as being limited to the barest minimum of needs. The responsibility of both national governments and of the international community to the poor is surely both wider and more enduring than that.
14.8 Let me illustrate this concept by referring to Nepal's strategy for making primary education available to the widest numbers. Nepal's New Education Plan in 1971 accorded top priority to the democratization of access to education, but the constraint of extremely limited resources hampered the expansion of school facilities and the acceleration of enrolment. We therefore decided to meet the minimum needs of the maximum numbers, and defined the primary level as 1 - 3 classes but made that level of education free. The result of this policy of providing for the minimum needs of the largest numbers has been most encouraging. Within seven years, the complex range of measures designed to democratize access to education has raised enrolment at the primary level from around
310,000 to a present figure of nearly 883,000. This number represented 32 per cent of the 6-8 age children in 1971; in 1978 it represents 78 per cent of that age group. What is even more interesting is that the implementation of this set of policies gave much greater benefits and facilities to the
710    remotest regions of the country. As a result, in the 18 remote districts of Nepal, enrolment is 19 today 4 per cent higher than the national average at 82 per cent. I have quoted this one dramatic instance of how a policy directed towards the needs of the disadvantaged can achieve rapid results.
14.9 This of course does not mean that Nepal does not wish to provide all children with access to the lower middle school. It merely means that it is more important for all Nepalese children to be able to enjoy at least three classes of schooling than to provide lower middle level facilities for limited numbers. Once there is 100 per cent enrolment in grades 1 to 3, Nepal may well give thought to a broader definition of the primary level. It is precisely this kind of staged definition of basic needs and priority commitment that we have to consider.
14.10 It is equally important to devise a strategy for meeting basic needs which does not, in the process of solving the problem, accentuate dependence - whether it be the dependence of the poor on the State or that of the poor State on donor States. Unless the satisfaction of each level of basic needs goes hand in hand with increased productivity on the part of the poor and a consequent general rise in national output, such dependence syndromes are likely. No area concerning the satisfaction of basic needs is more suited to such a production-oriented approach than those which are closest to Unesco. For in removing ignorance we can also provide the poor with the tools for self-sustaining individual or community growth, whether through inculcation of teaching skills or by making them conscious of the opportunities to use their own resources for their betterment.
14.11 Mr. President, I have tried to draw the attention of this assembly to the needs of the poorest sections of humanity. In doing so, I am by no means implying that this facet of development should command exclusive attention on the part of the international community. The establishment of the new international economic order is a manifold objective, which has a number of other vital and imperative aspects. In laying down its priorities each national government is inevitably required to choose not one, but a full set of policy objectives. The delegation of Nepal does feel, nevertheless, that in this hierarchy of objectives the basic needs of the poor should be accorded the highest priority and that the problems of the rural poor, among whom deprivation is most persistent, should become the main target of our efforts. It is precisely for this reason that His Majesty's Government of Nepal has now formulated a comprehensive strategy for rural development designed to help the village poor.
14.12 Indeed, the Director-General's own awareness of this was reflected during his visit to Nepal, when Unesco endorsed Nepal's educational strategy for rural development; we hope that his initiative will lead to the provision of support and co-operation in the implementation of this strategy in one of the most backward parts of our country. At the same time, efforts are under way with many other agencies to carry forward the same strategy in other parts of Nepal. May I hope, Mr. President, that the distinguished delegates from donor countries will urge their governments to give priority support to such programmes, which serve the needs of’ the most deprived in the least developed countries. This, indeed, would be in accordance with Unesco's concepts and programmes for integrated rural development, and would merely amount to giving them a more pointed geographical emphasis, in the interests of social justice.
14.13 Apart from this proviso, we believe that the proposed adjustments to the Medium-Term Plan contained in document 20 C/4 set the parent documents in a correct perspective by preserving the "vision and dynamics" of the Plan intact, while at the same time bringing it closer to the realities which emerge during the execution of Unesco's ongoing programmes.
14.14 Mr. President, one of the most welcome features of document 20 C/4 is its proposal for the addition of a new objective concerning the promotion of technical and vocational education. This is in keeping, not only with the Guidance Note of the nineteenth session of the General Conference concerning Objective 4.3, but also with our own national and perhaps regional experiences in the past few years. We are very glad that Unesco will be making provision for the extension of activities related to technical and vocational education, with the particular aim of assisting Member States in implementing the revised recommendation on technical and vocational education. The other proposed adjustments to the Medium-Term Plan reflect the emergence as critical issues in the developing countries of problems related to rural development and the role of women and the youth in national development. Improvement of the status of women and the encouragement of participation by young people in development activities (Chapter VI.A, B and C) are fully appropriate. The Director-General's appraisal of ongoing programmes as an approach to the future programme on the medium-term scale, with many new points of emphasis, thus appears particularly promising for the developing countries.
14.15 Mr. President, our delegation fully endorses the Draft Programme and Budget for 1979-1980
(20 C/5), not least because it takes full account as its main sources of inspiration not only of the Constitution of Unesco, but also of the Medium-Term Plan. This document indeed reflects the future thrust of the Organization's activities in accordance with the major new guidelines issued by the General Conference at its nineteenth session. It is gratifying to know that in the preparation of
20 C/5 the recommendations of several intergovernmental conferences have also formed a critical background, whereas direct consultations and questionnaire surveys of the reactions of Member States have provided a major feedback to this document. Thus, as a C/5 document, it is a model of clarity and comprehensiveness. The delegation of Nepal merely wishes to re-emphasize that the biennial budget, as well as the Medium-Term Plan, should allocate much more to projects and pro- grammes designed to help the poorest sectors of the world population - especially in the areas of education, science and technology.
14.16 Mr. President, before I move on to the next theme, may I express the enthusiasm with which His Majesty's Government of Nepal endorses and supports the objectives, policies and programmes enunciated in the Introduction to document 20 C/5. It is equally gratifying to note the impact of the
714    Medium-Term Plan, which was approved by the last General Conference as document 19 C/4, on the programmes drawn up for the forthcoming biennium. Our enthusiasm in this connection is primarily due to the significant convergence between the policies of Unesco and those of His Majesty's Govern- ment, particularly in regard to our relationship with the international community. The policy of Nepal has been eloquently summarized by His Majesty King Birendra Bir Bikram Shah Dev as "Planning prosperity together" and "Independence through interdependence". This, I must say with a sense of personal satisfaction, is the gist, as I understand it, of Unesco's emerging policy and basic working principle.
14.17 We in Nepal welcome the initiatives taken by Unesco in shaping a new international economic and social order. In June of this year, we had the pleasure of welcoming the Director-General to Nepal. In the course of his visit he explained the significant changes in the orientation of Unesco's policies and programmes since the General Conference of 1976. We subscribe most heartily tothe principles of national sovereignty and self-reliance, indigenous development and a participatory relationship between partners in international co-operation, which we understand to be the corner- stones of Unesco's new policies. May I also take this opportunity to acknowledge the benefits that have accrued to us as a result of Unesco's assistance and help from other countries which have supported us through the intermediary of the Organization. We are pleased that increasing emphasis is being laid on the importance of joint planning, execution and management of the assistance provided to us. May I merely suggest that the emphasis in Unesco services should shift away from technical consultancy towards the encouragement and reinforcement of national and indigenous capabilities through the creation of .social infrastructures and national cadres. This is the only path to self-reliant growth and self-sufficiency.
14.18 We agree, Mr. President, that there is tragic irony in a situation where the finest ingenuity of man is being devoted to the means of destroying the world that he lives in, whether through nuclear holocaust or ecological disaster. Science and technology must surely be directed to the ends of welfare and equity. But for those of us who come from south of the equator of development, there is little virtue in pointing this out, since the power of decision on the harnessing of science and technology rests almost entirely with a limited number of major countries. Whether the moral force of our logic finally triumphs or not is dependent on them. Let us hope that the continued misuse of science will not lead us to a point when we shall have to ask with exasperation, in the words of John Donne: "Where can we find two better hemispheres without sharpe North without declining West?" The more pertinent question is what the South must do.
14.19 Notwithstanding their misuse of science and technology, the oligopoly of the industrialized countries in these fields is so great, that they have enough remaining know-how to continue to raise their own standards of living, and to widen the gap between them and the underdeveloped world not only ad infinitum but also ad nauseam. Indeed this gap is already so great today that even if we had access to a great deal of their technology, much of it would be inappropriate to our scale of need, level of capability and power of absorption. In so far as learning from the advanced countries is concerned, it is more a question of carefully gauged eclectic access. What is more important is the evolution of a technology adapted to the socio-economic environment of underdevelopment. The signpost to that goal is inscribed with the odd acronym TCDC ("technical co-operation between developing countries"), which sounds more suitable to the description of electric currents than to technology! If what we in the developing countries need are methods and equipment that are cheap, labour-intensive, suitable for small-scale application and compatible with the need for national self- expression and creativity, we must look to co-operation among ourselves. Indeed, this is a belief Nepal has long practised: two of the largest donors to our development programmes have been, not developed countries, but the two developing giants of Asia - India and China. Similarly, a large number of our students sent out for higher studies abroad go to developing countries.
14.20 Mr. President, Nepal would be only too happy to co-operate with any country which would find our experience relevant and useful, particularly in such fields as education where we have evolved some inexpensive but effective technologies. I am happy to note that this theme of co-operation in technology was whole-heartedly endorsed by all the developing countries at the recent conference in Argentina. Let us hope that this will soon be followed by the establishment of adequate mechanisms and institutions to foster such co-operation and by the mobilization of financial resources to back them. The proposed United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development (UNCSTD, Vienna, 1979) must take up this matter and discuss the institutional mechanism for promoting these interests in science and technology.
14.21 One scientific and technological project to which Unesco has agreed to extend its support concerns the establishment in Nepal of a regional centre for integrated mountain development in the southern Asian mountain system. The Director-General has already expressed Unesco's interest in such a concerted effort in research and development activities relating to mountain development. I need not reiterate here the importance of concentrating on the special developmental and ecological problems of mountain areas, except to recall that the findings of such research and the methodologies of action so developed are of the greatest significance to practically all the Member States of the Asia region, most of which have substantial mountain areas to develop. I can clearly foresee the extent to which this proposed centre might contribute to the development of large tracts of mountainous and hilly terrain in all our neighbouring countries. What is more, it is now well-established that the preservation of this mountain. environment is also essential for the safety and continuity of the plains in downstream countries. Mr. President, this regional centre cannot come into existence without generous external assistance and co-operation. The project provides an excellent opportunity for regional co-operation among the Member States which would directly benefit from it. But the scope of the centre's activities would be wide enough for much more extended involvement, participation and support.
14.22 Mr. President, Nepal strongly supports the view held by Unesco and so effectively expounded 19 by the Director-General, that the process of modernization is not only compatible with the maintenance of a nation's cultural identity, but can actually gain a "special dynamic quality" from the national culture, provided that the obsolete elements of the culture are jettisoned. We believe that moderniza- tion is not synonymous with "Westernization"; nor does it imply a predetermined path to alienation and anomie. The life of each nation has a logic of its own: remove it from its cultural context and it dries up. Nepal views development as a syncretic choice between options, an amalgam of the best values and institutions of the past with the factors which are essential for swift but equitable progress. We believe it feasible to design a strategy of change which, in the final analysis, is of our own making and uniquely suited to our national character. This indeed is the basis not only of our socio-economic strategy but also of our pelity. It is also for this reason that the educational system has sedulously sought to instil respect for those vital institutions of the family, community and religion. Our educational system can truly claim to be a vehicle for the integrity of our national culture.
14.23 Nepal's cultural heritage comprises a rich mixture of the Hindu and the Buddhist ways of life. Innumerable Buddhist shrines and monuments stand side by side with countless temples dedicated to the Hindu gods and goddesses, exemplifying their mutual tolergnce and complementarity. These temples and monasteries are the physical symbols of a live and vibrant culture. They are vital to the way of life of the people, as the numerous festivals and daily devotion around the shrines demon- strate. Their renovation and upkeep has the corollary benefit of reinvigorating a tradition of crafts- manship and art, which has bestowed on the world some of its finest works of art. It is this cultural heritage of mankind that must be preserved at all costs.
14.24 Mr. President, Unesco has over the last few years taken a keen and abiding interest in the preservation of the unique cultural heritage of Nepal. At the eighteenth session of the General Conference, resolution 3.413 authorized action on the Kathmandu Valley Master Plan, and the conse- quent programme of action is to be commended very highly; not only for the comprehensiveness with which the conservation of the cultural treasures of the valley is being dealt with, but also for the timeliness of the action it proposes. The Director-General, during his visit to Nepal, emphasized that this heritage, though located within the national boundaries of Nepal, is in reality an invaluable possession of all mankind. We in Nepal endorse this view, and consider that the exquisitely beautiful and intricate works of art that we have the good fortune to inherit and enjoy must be preserved for generations yet unborn. This, we strongly feel, is our most sacred duty.
14.25 In this connection, we were greatly encouraged when the Fourth Regional Conference of Ministers of Education and Ministers Responsible for Economic Planning, which met in Colombo, Sri Lanka, from 24 July to 1 August of this year, unanimously adopted a resolution requesting the General Conference to instruct the Director-General of Unesco to make an appeal to the international community for very early assistance to implement the Master Plan. I call upon this General Conference not only to support the resolution to initiate an international campaign for this purpose, but also to urge the governments of all Member States to accord this project their highest consideration and to extend to us the financial and technical assistance which is so urgently required. I can in no way over-emphasize the urgency of this support, in view particularly of the rapidiy changing climatic and other geophysical conditions of the country, which render it imperative to conserve and preserve our historical monuments and works of art without delay. The fragility of this heritage is revealed in the sudden and serious damage caused to the monumental shrine of Swyambhunath by this year's monsoon .
14.26 There are, Mr. President, other areas in which Unesco has mustered international and regional co-operation for the development of Nepal. I can only express our deepest appreciation of all the encouragement we have received. We look forward to continuing co-operation and, to this end, a number of activities were identified and recorded in an aide-memoire which I signed with the Director- General of Unesco on 18 June of this year. In this document we envisage increasing collaboration in all fields of Unesco's competence. In addition to the projects which I have already mentioned, I would like to refer, in particular, to the projects aimed at developing the faculty, the library facilities and the scientific and technological equipment required for the qualitative improvement of university- level education in Nepal.
14.27 Finally, Mr. President, may I, on behalf of His Majesty the King, His Majesty's Government and the people of Nepal, offer our grateful thanks to all who are translating into realities the noble concept of international co-operation in education, science and technology, culture and communication through Unesco. We reaffirm our support for Unesco as an organization in the forefront of the world struggle against ignorance and bigotry, discrimination and deprivation, poverty and under- development. We are particularly mindful of its colossal task in acting as a moral force, indeed as the conscience of mankind. For all these purposes, the prime need of the world is for peace. May I conclude by quoting the following words of His Majesty King Birendra, which I believe applies to all developing countries: "In our scheme of things, we neither have enemies to fight against, nor battles to win. If fight we must, the battle lies well within our own territory; it is a battle against backwardness and destitution”. Let us consecrate ourselves to achieving the world-wide and assured Peace and understanding which alone can release all our energies for the battle against backwardness. Thank you, Mr. President.
15. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Népal et j'invite maintenant the Hon. N.A. Kuhanga, ministre de l'éducation nationale et chef de la délégation de la République-Unie de Tanzanie, à prendre la parole.
16.1 Mr. KUHANGA (United Republic of Tanzania): Mr. President, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen: may I begin by congratulating you upon your election to the highest office of our General Conference, a position which you justly deserve from your distinguished career, particularly through your long association with this Organization. It is also a recognition of the important role that your country, Canada, has played and continues to play in international affairs. I assure you of the co-operation of my delega- tion in the discharge of your duties to this historic twentieth session.
16.2 I would also wish to be fully associated with the deep sentiments previous speakers have ex- pressed concerning your predecessor, the Minister for Education of the Republic of Kenya, Dr. Toweett and on the untimely death of the host to the nineteenth session of the General Conference, Chief Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, the first President and the founding father of the Kenyan nation. I desire to join them also in wishing his successor, Mr. Daniel Arap Moi, success in leading Kenya along the path to progress Mzee Kenyatta had traced.
16.3 I wish to take this opportunity also to welcome new members to the Organization. It is through the continuing increase in its membership that Unesco can lay claim to being truly the most universal intergovernmental instrument of international co-operation in the fields of education, science, culture and communication, embracing the old and the new States, the strong and the weak States and the large and the small States.
16.4 Mr. President, I would like to reaffirm my country's position concerning the Medium-Term Plan
(1977-1982). In our view, in its 44 objectives the plan has set the Organization on a purposeful course of action. We urge Unesco to continue to translate it into concrete programmes of action in order to make it meaningful. My country also welcomes the draft adjustments to the plan proposed in document 20 C/4, namely the addition of a new objective concerning the promotion of technical and vocational education; the new presentation of three objectives, that is, integrated rural development, improvement of the status of women and their participation in development and the role of youth in educational, social and cultural activity, and also the brief note on special education. We welcome these innovations because we believe that they will enrich the activities of Unesco in the Member States.
16.5 Mr. President, let me now discuss more specifically the programme for the 1979-1980 biennium. We agree with the Director-General's proposal that educational action should be guided by principles conceived in terms of individual needs and aspirations that are related to those of society in develop- ment and also conceived in a multidisciplinary perspective in relation to the other sectors. These two concepts are very broad indeed and in real programmes Unesco should continue to encourage and support the Member States in their activities in areas of their greatest needs and highest priority. In my country, for instance, our present most pressing concern is to ensure improvement in the quality of education, after a decade and a half of following the Unesco Addis Ababa Education Plan for Africa that laid emphasis on a quantitative approach. Our qualitative approach is aimed at achieving that prime objective of education, namely to prepare the individual for life.
16.6 The implications of an approach which focuses on the quality are enormous, as all of us realize. In our case, it has demanded the designing of the appropriate and relevant curricula, the training and retraining of a large body of teachers, the construction or improvement of very many school buildings and materials, furniture and equipment, and the strengthening of the monitoring, inspection and evaluation systems. In a developing country with limited resources like Tanzania, the choice between quality and quantity is not easy to make especially when such a choice implies, for example, the arrest of uncontrolled expansion of secondary education, in the face of the rapidly growing primary education, in order to strengthen the entire educational system.
16.7 Mr. President, for most of the developing countries the new objective of technical and voca- tional education is a very important one which, if properly translated into action, will contribute effectively towards laying a firm foundation of the relationship between education and work, both by introducing work in the educational curricula and by strengthening the link between education and employment. We hope that with this kind of background, young people will be better prepared to face the world of work of whatever form it may take, a farm, an office, a factory, a classroom or a hospital. In this scientific and technological age such an educational background becomes an essential part of preparation for life.
16.8 Mr. President, we have noted with great interest the note on special education in document
20 C/4. Although this has been on Unesco's programme for some time now, it is still a matter of concern to my delegation because it has not been accorded its rightful priority. As a result, its programmes have suffered from lack of adequate resources. Not all Member States are lucky enough to have the means to organize specialized education programmes for the physically handicapped and mentally retarded. Unesco should therefore do much more to help those unable to provide adequately from their own resources this service, which is one of the basic human rights.
16.9 Mr. President, my delegation lends its full support to Unesco's efforts to improve educational content, methods and techniques. Indeed the recent programme giving support to innovations through setting up regional and subregional co-operative networks is very commendable. Here I am referring to the Network of Educational Innovations for Development in Africa (NEIDA); APEID for Asia; EIPDAS for the Arab States; CODIESEE in Europe; and a similar project proposed for Latin America and the Caribbean. NEIDA, the brainchild of the Unesco Conference of African Ministers of Education held in Lagos, Nigeria, early in 1976, has already identified six priority programme areas all of which
714    are crucial in African education development. The importance of this move has been demonstrated 19 by the first two-week regional workshop of experts of NEIDA that ended just four weeks ago in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. The workshop has revealed the wide African talents for innovations in education, which, if properly harnessed, could bring about the much-needed change in our African education. The Organization should continue to support educational innovation programmes of this nature and ensure their continued improvement and growth.
16.10 Mr. President, to conclude on education I wish to say a few words on aid to refugees and liberation movements. We are happy to see that the programme continues as an entity in the Draft Programme and Budget. But while noting with satisfaction the proposed 25 per cent growth from United Nations sources, we note with disappointment that there is a growth rate of a mere 1.7 per cent in Unesco's own Regular Programme. We would like to inform the Conference that the stage which the liberation struggle has reached and its consequences in the affected areas requires a substantial increase in assistance. We would like to urge the Organization to increase the rate of growth by a higher percentage than this.
16.11 Mr. President, my country endorses most of Unesco's plan of action for the Vienna Conference. However, we wish to emphasize that this is not the time for indulging in pious resolutions or inconclu- sive studies in science and technology. Rather it is the time for concrete and tangible programmes of action. Neither studies nor resolutions can in themselves improve the prevailing human conditions. Science and technology should at least help the Member States to meet the basic needs of life, namely adequate food, good health, and basic education. So we expect the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology to recommend to the United Nations itself, its Specialized Agencies and organizations, practical and action-oriented programmes than can be implemented and not mere plans on paper which have no practical value.
16.12 Mr. President, as an integral part of the new international economic order we expect the science and technology conference to work for a new international science and technological order for the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies and organizations. We expect the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies, whenever necessary, to help Member States, particularly the developing countries, to build up infrastructures which would promote their science and technology. The major problems in their attaining this goal are insufficient development of human resources, inadequacy or absence of institutional arrangements, and inability to take full advantage of new technologies for increased and improved productivity. Added to this is the absence or low level of participation by the population in general. Unesco should help the countries seeking its assistance to solve these problems.
16.13 The social sciences programme as a whole aims at promoting in depth communication between social sciences research, supplemented by philosophical inquiry, and study of experiences within the various societies. None the less, may we sound a note of caution here. While studies to identify problems are important, finding solutions to the problems in our view is even much more important. Unfortunately, by their very nature, the social sciences are study-prone, probably more than any other sector in the programme. This temptation should be avoided, for mankind expects this Organiza- tion to help him solve his problems, not merely to give him more knowledge of the problems that he already recognizes. For instance, for people who are being denied human rights, and there are many such people today in various parts of the world, we do not think that a programme like identifi- cation and classification of a new category of human rights will mean much to them.1
16.14 The kind of programmes we need in the social sciences are like those intended to improve the status of women and ensure the active participation of young people in social and international life which are action-oriented. These two programmes have not merely been given a new impetus and dynamic thrust by the proposed growth rates, but also their programmes in the Draft Programme and Budget have become action-oriented.
16.15 Mr. President, I think we should leave the question on the future status of philosophy in Unesco programmes to the Executive Board for further elaboration. However, we would appeal to the Board, in elaborating this question, to take into consideration various philosophies that have a bearing on Unesco's programme and its geographical and cultural diversities, including those of the developing countries which are very often erroneously assumed to have no original philosophies of their own. My delegation welcomes Unesco's decision to focus its programmes in culture on the concept of cultural identity. We also subscribe to the thesis that international understanding pre- supposes respect for and mutual appreciation of cultures. In this connection, we note the continu- ation of the General History of Africa programme, and we appreciate the generous voluntary contribu- tions to its special accounts by some Member States. But while recognizing the difficulties under which this project operates and not underestimating its achievements, we feel that the project could have made even better progress taking into consideration the time which has already elapsed since it was started. Therefore we appeal to those countries with useful materials in their archives and elsewhere to make them readily available to the compilers of this work so that Africa can have its history recorded more rapidly.
16.16 As regards the promotion of national and local languages, we believe that the proposal to launch Unesco Project Horizon 2000 is worth while and that the Organization should go ahead in preparing details of the project. It is worth mentioning here that one of the six priority areas in he Network of Educational Innovations for Development in Africa is the use of national languages in education.
16.17 In this connection too, I would like to say that we, in Tanzania, are happy to co-operate with Unesco in launching the Unesco Courier in the Kiswahili language (Mjumbe wa Unesco), with its first edition for the November 1978 issue to be devoted to the struggle for human rights in Southern
715    Africa, with "South Africa at Grips with Racism" as the major topic. We believe this topic to be appropriate at this time when we are celebrating the thirtieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Kiswahili is of course not merely a national language but an international one, as it is in use in several countries, particularly in Eastern and Central Africa. This is, however, the first time it has been used in an international periodical of the standing and popularity of the Courier. Though a coincidence, it is none the less significant that this twentieth session of the General Confer- ence should witness the issue of the Courier in a twentieth language, the first language from sub- Saharan Africa to be used in this periodical. We therefore trust that the same sympathetic reception will be accorded to the Kiswahili language edition of the Courier as characterized the launching of the 19 other language editions.
16.18 Mr. President, we welcome the proposal to include Africa in the continued programme of regional conferences on communication. We would recommend that our regional conference should discuss in depth and suggest concrete solutions to the chronic problems faced by our continent in transmitting information from one place to another, problems which undoubtedly contribute to Africa's underdevelopment. On the other hand, we hope that the conference will not altogether dismiss traditional methods of communication. What is needed is a deliberate effort to harness the latter and: make them complementary to more modern methods in order to enrich our communication systems. The regional conference will also benefit greatly if its organizers co-operate closely with those respon- sible for regional communication and information, who have competence and experience in these fields. We would further recommend that the International Commission's report on the study of communication problems be used at least as a reference document at this conference.
16.19 Mr. President, my delegation supports the final text of the Draft Declaration on the Funda- mental Principles Governing the Use of Mass Media in Strengthening Peace and International Under- standing and in Combating War Propaganda Racialism and Apartheid, as submitted by the Director- General. Furthermore, we believe it is essential, in the interests both of culture and communication, for our Organization to help Member States which are seeking assistance in strengthening their training programmes in communication. In many developing countries, manpower development in education and the natural sciences is more advanced than in culture and communication. Unesco should do what it can to help redress this imbalance.
16.20 Mr. President, on the subject of programme support, we have only a few words to say with regard to archives. As may be recalled, at the nineteenth session of the General Conference many delegations advocated a substantial increase in the archives programme, to enable it to respond to the expectations of Member States. Regrettably, this recommendation is not reflected in document
20 C/5. My delegation proposes that archives be given significant priority in document 21 C/4. Moreover, in view of the fact that archives constitute a programme operation, the Director-General, for administrative purposes, may wish to consider transferring them to one of the operational sectors of the programme.
16.21 Mr. President, let me now say a few words on approaches to and methods of action in the execution of the programme. We appreciate the proposed increase of 17.4 per cent in the Participation Programme, although it still falls short of the target set by the previous session of the General Conference. The great increase in requests for Participation Programme assistance in each biennium is an indication of the impact of Unesco's work from this source. Indeed, in view of the generally not very promising responses to appeals for voluntary contributions, it is clear that like other Specialized Agencies, Unesco may have to rely more and more on its own resources for its aid pro- grammes.
16.22 We have noted with satisfaction the progressive steps taken by the Director-General in the direction of decentralization. Furthermore, we are glad to learn that the Director-General realizes that this cannot be achieved without strengthening the links between the Secretariat and the Regional Offices and the Member States and their National Commissions. In this connection, it is our wish that the General Conference adopt the Charter of the National Commissions, which was worked out mainly by the National Commissions themselves. This will constitute the first step in preparing the National Commissions for the work expected of them in the decentralization process.
16.23 We note that the Director-General also plans to give more responsibilities to the Regional Education Offices, whereby they will co-ordinate all Unesco activities in the regions concerned. We highly commend this move, since it brings the Organization closer to the beneficiaries of its assistance, while permitting it to supervise programme implementation more closely. We hope, however, that under the proposed new structures the Regional Offices will not neglect any of the sectors for which they were originally created, such as education, science and technology and so on.
16.24 Mr. President, my delegation supports the new structure of the Secretariat proposed by the Director-General, on the understanding that it will enhance the Organization's programme implementa- tion. We are also happy to see that more then ever before the Secretariat is a reflection of better geographical distribution. There still remains, however, the thorny question of recruitment proce- dures, both to the Secretariat and to field posts, although this, too, has somewhat improved. The Director-General is advised to follow up some of the very useful recommendations made to him at various advisory and recruitment meetings.
16.25 We also support the Director-General's proposed budget of US $303,000,000 for the 1979-1980 biennium. My delegation is satisfied with the detailed budget estimates leading to this figure and will vote in favour of the proposal.
16.26 Mr. President, on the question of peace and disarmament we would like to reaffirm the stand 19 which we took at the thirty-second session of the United Nations General Assembly, and to express our concurrence with the United Nations Secretary-General that, whatever we may claim to have achieved so far as steps towards disarmament, it amounts, in fact, to no disarmament at all. If we are serious about disarmament, we should proceed at once to the destruction and prohibition of further production of the deadly nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. The super-powers, with their great accumulation of these lethal weapons, have the peace of the world at their mercy. Resolutions on disarmament and peace, adopted at General Conferences, will have no significance at all unless they are followed by concrete practical action by the super-powers in the direction of disarmament.
16.27 Mr. President, earlier in this general policy debate the head of the Zambian delegation dealt eloquently and factually with the problems of Southern Africa. We wish to fully associate ourselves with everything he said. The situation in Southern Africa grows more dangerous every day as the minority regimes play their game of confusion whenever there are signs of solutions. There was a moment when the Anglo-American proposals for Zimbabwe and the initiatives of the five Western countries concerning Namibia were hailed as a breakthrough in the Southern African impasse. That can no longer be asserted confidently today. Recent developments leave the liberation movements no other option but to continue to fight to achieve their human rights. Thus it is not the liberation movements that are causes of bloodshed in Southern Africa, as some quarters would wish the world to believe. Rather, it is the diehard fascist and racist minority regimes which are fully responsible for the situation. The adoption by this General Conference of the Draft Declaration on Race and Racial Prejudice will show these regimes and those who share their ideas exactly where our Organization stands with regard to their policies.
16.28 Mr. President, my delegation shares the Director-General's view that in the spirit of the nineteenth session of the General Conference we have moved from confrontations in 1975-1976 towards consensus in 1977-1978. Nevertheless, from what I have just said on peace and disarmament and on Southern Africa it is clear that the world problems that contributed to confrontations during the previous biennium are still very much with us. If neglected further, they can easily spark off other confrontations, not only within this Organization but among mankind as a whole.
16.29 Before I conclude, allow me to take this opportunity to congratulate the Director-General and the Secretariat on their great devotion to duty, revealed in the manner in which they have so ably prepared this Conference, and particularly its main documents.
16.30 In conclusion, Mr. President, I wish to reaffirm my country's firm commitment to support the cause of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Thank you, Mr. President.
17. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la République-Unie de Tanzanie et j'invite S. Exc. le Dr Philip Muscat, ministre de l'éducation et chef de la délégation de Malte à prendre la parole.
18.1 Mr. MUSCAT (Malta): Mr. President, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen: I should like first of all and on behalf of my delegation to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to this high office. May I wish you a fruitful term of office and assure you of my country's co-operation.
18.2 Mr. President, it is a well-known fact that my Government's foreign policy has a Mediterranean dimension which is due, of course, to Malta's central position in the region. Unfortunately, it is equally well-known that the Mediterranean has, throughout most of its history and right up to the present day, been an area of conflict and tension. For these two reasons we have been leading champions of the cause of the Mediterranean, especially in drawing the attention of others to the inescapable reality that European security cannot be divorced from the security of the Mediterranean. At the same time, we have spared no effort in playing our part to arouse awareness among the Mediterranean States of the need for closer co-operation.
18.3 In this spirit, as long ago as 1972, Malta took the initiative of bringing together the Foreign Ministers of Italy, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Tunisia and, of course, Malta. The result of this meeting was a decision for quadripartite collaboration in a number of fields, including agriculture, communica- tions and pollution control. As further proof of my country's efforts to bring the various States of the Mediterranean closer together, I can mention the fact that serious consideration is being given to the publication of books dealing with various aspects of Mediterranean life and history. Plans are also already well in hand for the commencement of a Mediterranean Radio programme, the printing of a Mediterranean newspaper and the establishment of a Mediterranean News Agency. The establishment of such a news agency would ensure that news about the Mediterranean is factual and balanced.
18.4 Mr. President, our record of relations with the Arab world and Europe is well known. Malta's policy has been a consistent one. We have acted, and will continue to act as a political bridge between Europe and the Arab world. At Helsinki, we urged the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe to hear the views of Arab Mediterranean States, and those States indeed made a substantial contribution to the Conference. In the Belgrade follow-up, it was decided to hold a meeting in Valletta in February 1979 to discuss co-operation between Europe and the non-participating States of the Mediterranean. We have thus provided a new forum which, if taken seriously by Europe, could lead to much-needed co-operation in the Mediterranean.
18.5 I need not burden you with a list of Malta's other achievements and initiatives which, in fact, led to the Arab League to undertake, on 21 October 1975, to strengthen its political, economic and cultural co-operation with Malta. We have, moreover, applied to join the Arab Group for regional activities of Unesco, in addition to our existing membership of the European Group, in the firm conviction that this will help us to serve better the interests for which we are all striving. It is my confident hope and that of my Government that the General Conference will support our application to join the Arab Group, which has already indicated to us its willingness to accept our membership.
18.6 Mr. President, although the situation in the Mediterranean region is our major concern, we are certainly not oblivious to the other problems that afflict our world. One such problem that is crying out for rapid solution concerns the ever-widening gap between the rich and poor countries. What is worse is that the existing gap between rich and poor is likely to grow even wider. In this context, it is heartening to note that the United Nations family, including Unesco, is giving prominence to the establishment of a new international economic order. The concept of a just economic order for the world must be translated into concrete action which will ensure that the just aspirations of the poor, developing nations are clearly met.
18.7 Malta is a small island country whose economy is undergoing a fundamental structural change. The traditional economy, built on foreign military expenditure, is being converted into an economy based on manufacturing, shipbuilding, ship-repairing, agriculture and the tourist industry. The Government of the Republic of Malta believes that if the new international economic order is to be meaningful, it must incorporate an in-built bias in favour of less developed, land-locked or island developing States, and particularly those which lack raw materials. It goes without saying that the particular stage of development and specific needs of each developing country should be taken into account. It is within this context that Malta has supported and continues to give its full support to the aims expressed in the resolutions on the new international economic order adopted at the Sixth Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly.
18.8 Taken in isolation, however, a number of the recommendations on the new international economic order may be irrelevant or even detrimental to economies which are heavily dependent on foreign trade and which lack a natural resource base. In any new world order designed to reduce the gap between the rich and the poor, the most essential priorities should include: secure access to overseas markets; security of supply of imported raw materials; and machinery which would come into operation automatically when the need arises.
18.9 I am sure that the majority will agree with me when I say that all our efforts towards the establishment of a more just economic order for the world will not bear the desired fruit unless people are sufficiently educated to realize the dangers inherent in the present situation.
18.10 Mr. President, my Government attaches great importance to the establishment of a new order in communications in mass media, and therefore greatly appreciates the initiative of the Director- General in placing before this General Conference a revised Draft Declaration on the Fundamental Principles Governing the Use of the Mass Media in Strengthening Peace and International Under- standing and in Combating War Propaganda, Racialism and Apartheid. The task of those responsible for the mass media should be to report facts as they occur and to use their influence in a responsible and positive way. Unfortunately, the existing state of affairs is almost the opposite. The service that emanates from the big international press and news agencies sometimes tends to be slanted against the developing countries of the Third World and their leaders. Great prominence is given to certain news items of minor importance, while national achievements in vital sectors are barely men- tioned or wrongly reported. Moreover, in certain instances the international press is used as a destabilizing factor against governments whose only crime is generally that of standing up for their rights, their sovereignty and independence. This state of affairs, Mr. President, should be remedied without further delay. It is our earnest hope that the final text of the Declaration that will be eventually adopted by this Conference will reflect the aspirations of the vast majority of States, and will serve as a guiding light and as an instrument by means of which those responsible for the mass media will live up to their true vocation - which is to educate the minds of men.
18.11 Mr. President, we in Malta are much concerned with the manner in which education, together with science and technology, can improve the quality of life. In fact, my Government only recently embarked on an exercise to reform the whole system of tertiary education in Malta to make it better suited to the country's social and economic needs. In this connection, I feel that our higher education reforms conform with the remarks made by the Director-General in his Introduction to the Draft Programme and Budget for the next biennium, in which he very aptly mentions "the strengthening of links between education and employment, the introduction of productive work into the educational process as a means of enhancing the value of training and providing a better preparation for working life and for development tasks, and the steering of education towards raising the social productivity of labour".
18.12 In order to produce the necessary managerial and technological staff to serve as senior cadres in the process of development, as well as to democratize higher education by making it available primarily to workers, my Government has launched an extensive reform in the field of higher education, and has made significant amendments to existing legislation. These amendments provide for a restruc- turing of certain traditional degrees in the arts and sciences. New courses, based on a worker-student system of six months work and six months study, lead to degrees in administration, accountancy, business studies, education, engineering, pharmacy, dentistry and medicine. Teaching for these worker-student degrees has been assigned to a New University, whose Constitution is separate and distinct from that of the Old University. While great care is being taken to ensure that entry require-
718    ments and course content are of a high standard, it is hoped that the system will soon adapt itself 19 to our Island's developmental needs and that the Government, para-State and private sectors alike will feed into the new courses an adequate number of worker-students to meet future manpower requirements. This worker-student system also solves the problem of student grants, since stipulated rates of remuneration have been established for all worker-students according to the levels of study reached. Another welcome innovation is the adequate representation of employers' and workers' unions on the New University Council, with the aim of ensuring that the New University and its courses will quickly respond to local industrial, technological and managerial needs.
18.13 Mr. President, I am happy to note Unesco's ever-growing interest in safeguarding the cultural and natural heritage of mankind. My delegation also notes with particular interest the activities proposed under Theme 1.2/04 of the Draft Programme and Budget, namely the contribution to the mutual appreciation of cultures and to international cultural understanding. My Government is conscious of its responsibilities in this connection, and is doing its utmost to preserve the rich and varied heritage of Malta. Our resources are, however, limited, and we have more pressing priorities. This fact has been clearly expressed in various reports to my Government on the conservation of monuments in Malta. One of these reports states that "the task of preserving the cultural heritage of the Islands with their innumerable monuments of all styles and ages is indeed an immense task and obviously beyond the financial scope of the Maltese themselves :.. Accordingly financial assistance from abroad must be sought". Unesco has already done valuable work in assisting various countries to preserve and restore their historical monuments. It is our conviction that responsibility for the preservation of monuments is not merely that of the country in which they are situated but also that of the whole world.
18.14 At this point, perhaps, I ought to mention that we are doing all we can in the field of restoration. For example, work is currently in progress on the restoration and conversion of the Holy Infirmary of the Order of St. John in Valletta into an International Conference Centre, while retaining the original architectural features of this historic building.
18.15 My Government's great interest in the cultural development of peoples is also amply manifested in our request to Unesco to assist in the creation in Malta of a Mediterranean Intercultural Centre. We envisage that the centre will have, as one of its main functions, co-ordination between individuals, bodies and institutions concerned with culture. It is also envisaged that the centre will encourage the study of interaction between Arab and European cultures. In this connection, I am very happy to record that at a recent meeting of experts in Malta, my country was unanimously selected as the ideal location for such a centre because of its unique position in the Mediterranean, as a meeting-point of European and Arab cultures. My Government is of course ready to provide suitable premises for such a centre, and to assist in other ways within the limits of our resources, but this project cannot be implemented without the whole-hearted support of all the Mediterranean States and of Unesco.
18.16 Mr. President, I do not wish to conclude my address without saying a few words of a general nature about Unesco's budget, which amounts to millions of dollars. I am sure that I will be voicing the opinion of many delegates, particularly those from the developing countries, when I say that there is a great need for caution regarding the distribution of Unesco's resources. Great care should be taken to ensure that administrative costs are kept to a minimum, so that enough is left to be fed back in the form of assistance to the more deserving Member States. In this connection, I note with pleasure the statement by the Director-General, in his Introduction to the Draft Programme and Budget, that one of the three principles to which he adhered in preparing the budget was "to limit with the utmost stringency the budgetary growth of activities other than those directly geared to objectives".
18.17 Mr. President, if wars begin in the minds of men, it is to the human spirit that we must turn. An unceasing war must continue to be waged relentlessly against ignorance, discrimination, exploitation, and the many miseries that beset our lives. In order to win such a war, we must strive for the victory of education, culture, social justice and the application of science and technology to development. Only in this way can we ensure that wars of destruction between nations are eventually eradicated from the minds of men, and thus ensure the triumph of Unesco's ideal of peace, founded upon the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind. Thank you, Mr. President.
19. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de Malte et je donne la parole a M. Vladimir A. Kravets, Viesamore des affaires étrangères et chef de la délégation de la République socialiste soviétique 'Ukraine.
(20.1) Mr. KRAVETS (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic)( Translation from the Russian): Mr. President, the delegation of the Ukrainian SSR associates itself with the congratulations and good wishes that have been offered to you in connection with your election as President of the Conference. I am confident that under your leadership the twentieth session of the General Conference, thanks to the concerted efforts of the delegations of all States, will take new and important decisions aimed at enhancing the Organiza- tion's role in fulfilling its principal mission - strengthening peace, improving mutual understanding among nations and enlarging international co-operation in the field of education, science, culture and information.
(20.2) The Unesco General Conference brings together leading. representatives of Member States - outstanding figures in education, science and culture, statesmen and public servants - to express their authoritative opinion on vital questions of international co-operation, to exchange experiences and to formulate the future tasks of the Organization. We use the term "authoritative opinion" advisedly so as to underscore the growing
722    authority that our Organization has won in recent years as it has grown into a genuinely world-wide interna- 19 tional organization increasingly conscious of the responsibility it bears for instilling in the minds of men the idea that peace must be defended, as provided in the Constitution of Unesco.
(20.3) The Soviet Ukraine extends a warm welcome to the new States which have become full members of the Organization since the nineteenth session of the General Conference: heroic Angola, Cape Verde, the Comoros, Swaziland, long-suffering Namibia. The admission of Namibia to Unesco's ranks was one further demonstration of the Organization's great political maturity and of its dedication to the ideas of freedom and justice. Such an important international act will undoubtedly have far-reaching consequences for the final elimination of the abhorrent system of apartheid and the policy of racial discrimination conducted by South Africa and the regime of Salisbury with the support and connivance of the imperialist powers.
(20.4) We share the view, which was stressed by the overwhelming majority of delegations in their speeches, that the activities of our Organization are worthy of respect. However, during the past three or four years, Unesco and its Director-General have been the victims of unwarranted and malicious attacks. Venomous aspersions have been cast on its activities, all because of the fact that Unesco dared to adopt decisions calling for the strengthening of peace and international security, disarmament, decolonization and the use of the mass media to strengthen peace and international understanding and to combat war propaganda, racialism and apartheid; or because Unesco passed resolutions condemning the expansionist policy of Israel in the occupied Arab territories. Delegates will surely recall the fierce resistance encountered in Nairobi by the draft resolution on the Role of Unesco in generating a climate of public. opinion conducive to the halting of the arms race and the transition to disarmament, which was introduced on the initiative of the socialist countries. We were told, at the time, that Unesco was not the place for the discussion of such questions.
(20.5) But what was the reaction of the Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly devoted to Disarmament? It welcomed Unesco's initiative in that domain and urged our Organization to step up its programme in the field of research, publications and the development of curricula concerned with problems of disarmament, it welcomed its initiative in planning to hold a world congress on disarmament education, etc. Thus, it turned out that those who had insisted, in the teeth of opposition, on the adoption of the aforementioned resolution were right, not those who had objected to it.
(20.6) Unesco is frequently called an organization of intellectuals. But can the human intellect remain aloof from such a burning issue as the combat for disarmament? There is no more urgent and vital issue today than that of calling a halt to the arms race, which places an ever-growing burden on mankind and exposes it to steadily increasing dangers. The arms race eats up gigantic material resources essential to the well-being and progress of nations. It generates new weapons of mass destruction, including the monstrous neutron bomb.
(20.7) We consider that Unesco must endorse the idea that disarmament has become the crucial question in international progress and that the future of détente and the achievement of a lasting peace depend to a large extent on a solution being found to that question. And that is why the Ukrainian SSR so vigorously supports the adoption by the twentieth session of the General Conference of the resolution on the "Role of Unesco in generating a climate conducive to the halting of the arms race and the transition to disarmament”, the draft of which is contained in document 20 C/PLEN/DR.2, and urges all States actively to support it and thereby to contribute to the improvement of the international climate. We note with satisfaction that the draft is co-sponsored by the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Afghanistan and a number of other countries.
(20.8) The problems of peace and disarmament and the struggle of the peoples against colonialism and racialism, for social, economic and cultural progress and for the enjoyment of real human rights are all linked together. The defence of peace is the surest, and indeed the only, guarantee of the enjoyment of the fundamental human right - the right to life - and of all the other human rights and freedoms which derive from it. The economic and social consequences of the arms race are so onerous that its continuation is incompatible with the establishment of a new international economic order. The truth of these conclusions is self-evident. They are borne out by relevant passages in United Nations documents. The economies that would be achieved by the reduction of military budgets and the implementation of practical disarmament measures could undoubtedly exert an extremely favourable influence on the restructuring of international economic relations on a basis of justice and equality, and enable tremendous material and intellectual resources to be devoted to vital tasks of construction and progress, not least in the fields of education, science, culture and information.
(20.9) Unesco unquestionably has a constructive role to play in this sphere. In this connection we urge the Conference to approve the draft resolution concerning Unesco's contribution to peace and its tasks with respect to the promotion of human rights and the elimination of colonialism and racialism, submitted by the delegations of the Soviet Union, the Ukrainian SSR and Byelorussian SSR and set forth in document
20 C/PLEN/DR.1. We express our sincere gratitude to the delegations of Libya, Afghanistan and other countries for their endorsement of that draft resolution.
(20.10) We also welcome the initiative of the delegations of Algeria, Benin, Iran and Tanzania with regard to the inclusion in the Conference agenda of a new item concerning the allocation to Unesco's activities for the benefit of developing countries of part of the resources made available as a result of the application of disarmament measures. We are firmly convinced that the implementation of such measures would contribute to the extension of mutually beneficial international co-operation, i.e. to the fundamental purposes of our Organization.
(20.11) Unesco's conscience cannot be at rest so long as the rights of the inhabitants of the occupied Arab territories are trampled on by the Israeli aggressors. Israel, in essence, prevented Unesco's representatives from executing their mission and, accordingly, from implementing the decisions of the General Conference of Unesco, in other words, those taken by us in previous years. The Middle East crisis continues. Behind- the-scenes manoeuvering and separate deals will not disentangle the knot of contradictions in this region or lead to real peace in the Middle East. The object of such deals is to drive a wedge between the Arab countries, set them one against the other and force on them conditions advantageous to Israel. The only solution to the conflict in the Middle East is that indicated more than ten years ago by the United Nations Security Council: the total withdrawal of Israeli forces from the Arab territories they occupied in 1967, the enjoyment by the Palestinian people of their inalienable rights, including the right to establish their own State, and the establishment of international guarantees for the security of all States in that region. This is precisely the position that the Soviet Union has steadfastly maintained and continues to maintain now.
(20.12) Mr. President, the Ukrainian SSR has always advocated co-operation among States in encouraging and developing human rights. We consider that this matter should continue to be one of Unesco's top priorities. But unquestionably the Organization's major efforts should be directed towards those areas where human rights are flagrantly, systematically and massively violated, to wit southern Africa, Chile,
723    Nicaragua, the occupied Arab territories, and not towards those areas where, under the hypocritical cover of words about encouraging human rights, imperialist circles and their mass media are trying grossly to interfere in the internal affairs of other countries - the socialist countries, in particular - and slander their domestic and foreign policies and achievements aimed at promoting the welfare of their peoples.
(20.13) The real situation as it exists in the socialist States is graphic evidence of the fact that fundamental human rights are most fully enjoyed and assured only in those countries where the exploitation of man by man has been eliminated and the fruits of labour belong to all the people. The new Constitution of the USSR and the new Constitution of the Ukrainian SSR graphically demonstrate how fully human rights are secured on the basis of advanced socialist social relationships. It may perhaps be of some interest to note that a number of human rights principles laid down in the Final Act of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe have been inscribed in the new Constitutions of the USSR, the Ukrainian SSR and other Soviet republics, i.e. they have become constitutional (legislative) norms. The Soviet Union is now commemorating the sixty-first anniversary of the Great October Socialist Revolution. For all these years our people's State has been steadfastly pursuing a course of peace and friendship among peoples and is implementing the Programme of the Further Struggle for Peace and International Co-operation, for the Free- dom and Independence of Peoples, which was adopted at the XXVth Congress of the CPSU. As L.I. Brezhnev declared: "Such is our unswerving policy from which nothing can deflect us. It is enshrined in the Consti- tution of the USSR. We will do everything in our power to implement it".
(20.14) Mr. President, the twentieth session of the General Conference will shortly be considering the adoption of a document, the aims and objectives of which are clearly reflected in its title: the Draft Declara- tion on the Fundamental Principles Governing the Use of the Mass Media in Strengthening Peace and International Understanding and in Combating War Propaganda, Racialism and Apartheid. The assertion that this Declaration is a threat to the freedom of the press and that it is an invitation to State control over the mass media is absurd, patent subterfuge, an attempt to distort the true meaning of the document. The hullabaloo over the draft, the clamour of the countries of the West to prevent its adoption despite the support it has among the majority of Member States reveal the true intentions of those who are interested in preserving "informational imperialism". During the past few days we have heard the speeches of the representatives of a number of Western countries who devoted considerable attention to the question of the mass media. What was the thrust of their interventions? To put it simply, they were saying this to the developing countries: forget about adopting the Declaration and we shall provide you with the technical assistance necessary to develop you own organs of communication. Otherwise you run the risk of a confrontation with the West, with all the consequences that such a confrontation implies.
(20.15) But is there really any incompatibility between assisting the developing countries and using the mass media in strengthening peace and combating war propaganda, racialism and apartheid? The Unesco document in no way prevents us, the socialist countries, from pursuing our co-operation with the developing countries on a basis of equality, and accordingly we vigorously advocate the adoption of the Declaration at this very session. We trust that all countries which are endeavouring to free their spiritual and intellectual life from the shackles of colonialist domination will fully understand the real sense and significance of that document.
(20.16) In March of this year representatives of Unesco Member States prepared a Draft Declaration on Race and Racial Prejudice, which by and large meets the requirements of the combat against racialism and race prejudice; they now invite the Conference to approve it. The delegation of the Ukrainian SSR supports that document.
(20.17) We also attribute great importance to the adoption of the International Charter of Physical Education and Sport, considering that Unesco should play a more active, extensive and purposeful role in the field of international sport.
(20.18) The delegation of the Ukrainian SSR feels that top priority should be given to improving the effectiveness of the Organization's practical activities in order to fulfil the fundamental aims of Unesco as spelled out in its Constitution. On the whole we regard the Draft Programme for 1979-1980 as acceptable. We consider that the most serious attention should be given to finding solutions to the problems of international co-operation in the field of education, science, culture and information, to implementing measures conducive to the strengthening of peace and security and to ensuring that the resources available to the Organization for the execution of its various activities are utilized with maximum effectiveness. We shall be putting forward concrete proposals in the appropriate Commissions, but I should like to make a few general remarks here.
(20.19) The nineteenth session of the General Conference devoted considerable attention to the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe, regarding it as an outstanding event of our time. It approved Unesco's European programme and thereby paved the way for Unesco's active participation in implementing the relevant provisions of the Final Act.
(20.20) Our readiness to implement the Final Act in all spheres, includes, of course, the spheres of education, science, culture and information. The broad implementation by Unesco of those recommendations of the Final Act which fall within its sphere of competence is, we feel, an important factor in making the policy of peaceful coexistence a reality. I should like to illustrate this by one concrete example. The Ukrainian SSR actively supports Unesco action in the field of science and we are co-sponsors of the draft resolution on Cultural and Scientific Co-operation on the Basis of Mutual Equality and Interest as an Important Factor in Strengthening Peace, Friendship and Reciprocal Understanding among Peoples (document C/PRGV/DR.5). Our country is engaged in an extensive effort to increase the access of the population to the cultural and artistic treasures of other nations and peoples. The National Commission of the Ukrainian SSR for Unesco supports Unesco's many-sided endeavours in connection with the study, preservation and dissemination of cultural achievements. We have a high regard for the activities conducted within the framework of Unesco's Slav cultures project. I am happy to report that an International Conference within that same framework will be held in Kiev, the capital of Soviet Ukraine, in May 1979, with the participation, we hope, of scholars from European and other countries. Perhaps I may mention the representatives of the Director-General, who are with us today, that we are counting on the help of the Unesco Secretariat in the organization of that conference.
(20.21) Lastly, the delegation of the Ukrainian SSR considers that Unesco possesses not inconsiderable reserves that would permit it to reduce the growth rate of the budget and effect its stabilization. We regard the unbridled growth of the Organization's budget as unacceptable. For the period 1979-1980, we are being asked to approve a budget of over $300 million, which is $80 million or 35% more than the previous
724      budget; moreover, the additional expenditure on programme operations amounts to only 6%, while the remaining 19 tens of millions of dollars are solely the consequences of inflation and the fall in the value of the dollar. We are obliged to state firmly once again that we have no intention of assuming responsibility for the vices of the capitalist economic system and the resultant inflation and currency depreciation.
(20.22) Distinguished delegates, from the lofty platform of this plenary session of the General Conference, we proclaim the readiness of the Ukrainian SSR to participate in Unesco's activities in support of peace, mutual understanding among peoples and social progress and thereby contribute to the successful implemen- tation of its programme. Thank you.
21.1 Le PRESIDENT .- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la République socialiste soviétique d'Ukraine.
21.2 Je voudrais vous indiquer qu'au début de la séance de lundi après-midi, la Conférence géné- rale aura à se prononcer sur l'admission à l'Unesco du Commonwealth de la Dominique, question qui a été inscrite la semaine dernière à l'ordre du jour de la vingtième session.
21.3 La séance est levée. The meeting rose at 1.25 p.m. La séance est levée à 13 h. 25 Se levanta la sesion a las 13. 25 Заседание закрывается в 13.25 <!دعبةقيقد؟هوةدحاولاةعاسلاىفةسلجلاتعفر