Second plenary meeting
24 October 1978 at 3.25 p.m. President: Mr. TOWEETT (Kenya) Deuxième séance plénière
1.1 The PRESIDENT: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Before we proceed with our business, may I remind you of something that may have escaped your attention, namely that today is United Nations Day.
1.2 We are now going to examine the first report of the Credentials Committee, and I give the floor to its Chairman, Mr. Upraity.
2.1 Mr. UPRAITY (Nepal), Chairman of the Credentials Committee: Thank you, Mr. President. I have the great pleasure and honour to present the first report of the Credentials Committee.
2.2 At its first plenary meeting on 24 October 1978, the General Conference, in accordance with Rules 25 and 27 of its Rules of Procedure, established for its twentieth session a Credentials Committee consisting of the following States: Australia, Chile, Costa Rica, Czechoslovakia, Gabon, Nepal, Sudan, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United States of America.
2.3 The Credentials Committee held its first meeting at 10.45 a.m. on the same day. The Committee elected me as its Chairman. In accordance with Rules 22 and 28 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, the Committee then examined the credentials received by the Director-General.
2.4 The delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics objected to the credentials submitted in the name of Chile. The delegate of Czechoslovakia supported this objection. The delegate of Chile referred to Rule 28 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, and said that the Committee's task was limited to the examination of credentials of delegations of Member States and the submission of a report to the General Conference. He stated in this connection that the credentials of the delegation of Chile had been issued by the competent authorities of his country and that they were accordingly in due form.
2.5 At the Chairman's request, the Legal Adviser informed the Committee in this connection that the criteria for deciding whether credentials are in due form are laid down in Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, which provides that the credentials of delegates and alternates shall be issued by the Head of the State, the Head of the Government, the Minister of Foreign Affairs or another minister authorized by the Minister of Foreign Affairs to issue the credentials.
2.6 In connection with the credentials of a member of the delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany, the delegation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics made the following declaration: "It has become known that the delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany includes a permanent resident in the western sectors of Berlin, Professor Simson. According to the quadripartite agree- ment of 3 September 1971, permanent residents in the western sectors of Berlin may take part in international exchanges together with participants from the Federal Republic of Germany on the sole condition that problems of status and security are not dealt with. Permanent residents in the western sectors of Berlin may not, therefore, be appointed members of the State or government delegations of the Federal Republic of Germany. The inclusion of Professor Simson in the Federal Republic of Germany delegation to the Conference is thus illegal. Such actions only create unnecessary difficulties for Unesco as it faces the task before it. The delegation of the USSR requests that this statement be included in the records of the Conference".
2.7 The delegate of Czechoslovakia associated himself with this declaration.
2.8 The Chairman of the Committee has also received from the delegation of the German Democratic Republic to the twentieth session of the General Conference a communication dated 24 October 1978, containing a declaration similar in its terms to the above-quoted declaration of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. The text of the communication concerned will be reproduced in the annex to the report (20 C/129).
2.9 Mr. President, with your permission I would like to read out the full text of this communica- tion: "The delegation of the German Democratic Republic has just learned that Professor Simson, who is domiciled in West Berlin, is a member of the delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany to the twentieth session of the General Conference. The delegation of the German Democratic Republic supports the statement made by the delegation of the USSR. It is likewise of the opinion that, in accordance with the quadripartite agreement of 3 September 1971, persons domiciled in West Berlin may participate in international exchanges, together with participants from the Federal Republic of Germany, only on condition that no questions of status and security are involved. Accordingly, persons domiciled in West Berlin may not be designated as members of delegations representing the State or Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. The inclusion of Professor Simson in the delegation to the Conference is therefore illegal. Action of this kind can only have the effect of making the work of Unesco unnecessarily complicated as it endeavours to carry out its tasks. The delegation of the German Democratic Republic requests you to ensure that this statement is recorded in the proceedings of the Conference".
2.10 The Committee has decided that the delegations of the following Member States were duly accredited, in conformity with Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, by documents issued by the Head of the State, the Head of the Government, the Minister of Foreign Affairs or a Minister authorized to issue credentials by the Minister of Foreign Affairs: Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Central African Empire, Chile, China, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, Iceland, India, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Norway, Oman, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia.
2.11 Mr. President, the Committee recommended that the delegations of the above-mentioned States be allowed to take part in the work of the General Conference at its twentieth session.
2.12 The delegations of the following States have submitted credentials in the form of telegrams, letters or other documents issued by a minister other than a Minister of Foreign Affairs and not so authorized by the latter, by the head of a diplomatic mission, by a Permanent Delegate to Unesco, or by a senior official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Afghanistan, Albania, Australia, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Denmark, Egypt, Gambia, Greece, Haiti, Indonesia, Italy, Lesotho,
2.13 Mr. President, the Committee proposes that these documents be accepted as provisional creden- tials of the delegations of the above Member States, subject to later presentation of credentials in due form, and that these delegations be meanwhile allowed to take part in the work of the twentieth session of General Conference.
2.14 The Committee then examined the credentials of the observers from the Holy See, a non- Member State of the Organization. It recommended that these observers be admitted.
2.15 The Committee noted that a few Member States had not submitted credentials for their delega- tions. The Committee decided to authorize its Chairman to report directly to the General Conference on any credentials which might be submitted before it met again, on the understanding that the Chairman might convene the meeting when he considers it necessary.
2.16 Mr. President, since we met this morning, the Committee has received a few more communica- tions with regard to credentials, and with your permission I would like to present my first supplemen- tary report as its Chairman.
2.17 In accordance with the authorization given to me by the Committee at its first meeting, I have the honour to submit to the General Conference the following information. Since this meeting, credentials in due form have been received from Zaire. In accordance with the authorization given to me by the Committee, I propose to the General Conference that the delegation of this Member State be admitted to take part in its twentieth session.
2.18 Credentials in due form have been received from a number of Member States which had previously. submitted provisional credentials. The Member States concerned are: Afghanistan, Australia, Lesotho, Papua New Guinea, Republic of Korea. In accordance with authorization given to me by the Committee, I propose to the General Conference that the delegates of these Member States be admitted to take part in the work of its twentieth session.
2.19 Provisional credentials have been received since the first meeting of the Committee from Colombia, Guatemala and Honduras. In accordance with the authorization given to me by the Com- mittee, I propose to the General Conference that subject to later presentation of credentials in due form, the delegations of these Member States be allowed to take part in the twentieth session of the General Conference.
2.20 Mr. President, I move the adoption of these two reports. Snar The PRESIDENT: May I thank the Credentials Committee, and in particular its Chairman, for the work accom- plished in such a short time. Does anyone wish to speak? The delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany has the floor.
4.1 Mr. FABRICIUS (Federal Republic of Germany): : Mr. President, I must confess that I am slightly surprised at the objection raised by distin- guished delegates, as reflected in the report of the Credentials Committee against the participation of one of the members of our delegation, who comes from the western sectors of Berlin. I would like to emphasize very strongly that this criticism is completely unfounded. I apologize to the delegations of the General Conference, but as the question has been raised by others I have to clarify the situation in some detail.
4.2 The relevant document is the quadripartite agreement on Berlin, which was signed in 1971 by France, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. This agreement reaffirmed that quadripartite rights and responsibilities relating to Greater Berlin remain in effect and are binding on all four powers. In the sections dealing specifically with the western sectors of Berlin, the agreement states that the ties between the western sectors of Berlin and the Federal Republic of Germany will be maintained and developed, taking into account that these sectors continue not to be a constituent part of the Federal Republic of Germany and not to be governed by it.
4.3 The quadripartite agreement recognizes that without prejudice to the rights and responsibilities of France, the United States and the United Kingdom, and provided that matters of security and status are not affected, the Federal Republic of Germany may represent the interests of the western sectors of Berlin abroad. What is particularly relevant in this context is that the quadripartite agreement confirms that, provided that matters of security and status are not affected, the Federal Republic of Germany may represent the interests of the western sectors of Berlin in international organizations and international conferences, and that permanent residents of the western sectors of Bera may participate jointly with participants from the Federal Republic of Germany in international exchanges.
4.4 Mr. President, I think this provides the General Conference with sufficient evidence that the complaint brought forward against our delegation is totally unfounded. Thank you, Mr. President.
5. The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany, and call upon the delegate of Cuba.
(6) M. MARINELLO VIDAURRETA (Cuba).- (Traduit de l'espagnol. ) Monsieur le Président, nous devons signaler que pour des raisons indépendantes de notre volonté, à la séance de ce matin, lorsqu'a été élu le Comité de vérification des pouvoirs, la liste des noms proposés pour le constituer a échappé à notre attention. En ayant pris connaissance, nous avons été surpris d'y voir figu- rer précisément les représentants du gouvernement du Chili. Nous appuyons la position de l'Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques et de la Tchécoslovaquie selon laquelle les pouvoirs des représentants du gouvernement du Chili ne doivent pas être acceptés. Il y a des situations qui sont légitimes du point de vue du Règlement mais qui ne le sont pas du point de vue moral. Ici, à l'Unesco, les représentants de chaque pays doivent représenter leur peuple ; or, nous savons tous que l'actuel gouvernement du Chili ne représente pas le peuple du Chili. Pour ces raisons, la délégation cubaine conteste les pouvoirs du Chili et nous pensons que la grande majorité des délégués ici présents doivent nous suivre puisque l'esprit de l'Unesco vise précisément à aider au développement des peuples, à leur éducation, à leur culture et à leur liberté. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
7. The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Cuba, and call upon the delegate of Chile.
(8.1) M. FERNADEZ VALDES (Chili).- (Traduit de l'espagnol.) Monsieur le Président, que mes premiéres paroles soient pour exprimer, au nom de ma délégation, la satisfaction que j'éprouve de vous voir présider ces premières séances de la Conférence générale en tant que digne représentant du Kenya et du continent africain.
(8.2) Ce matin, en ma qualité de membre du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs, j'ai eu à exposer les rai- sons pour lesquelles je considérais comme irrecevables, du point de vue juridique, les allégations formulées par les délégués de l'Union soviétique et de la Tchécoslovaquie à l'encontre des pouvoirs présentés par ma délégation. Je ne souhaitais pas intervenir dans ce débat car je ne crois pas pouvoir me dédoubler et parler d'une part comme membre du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs, et d'autre part comme délégué. Cependant, vu les déclarations qui viennent d'être faites, j'ai demandé la parole pour exercer mon droit de réponse.
(8.3) En premier lieu, je dois signaler que conformément aux articles 22 et 28 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale, il appartient exclusivement au Comité de vérification des pouvoirs et à la Confé- rence générale de vérifier si les pouvoirs présentés émanent d'un chef d'Etat ou de gouvernement ou d'un ministre des affaires étrangères. En second lieu, il est interdit à notre Organisation de se pencher sur la question de savoir si un gouvernement est ou non légitime, conformément au paragraphe 3 de l'article pre- mier de son Acte constitutif, qui dispose que l'Organisation s'interdit d'intervenir en aucune matière rele- vant essentiellement de la juridiction intérieure des Etats membres.
(8.4) En conséquence, le Comité a agi conformément au droit en acceptant les pouvoirs de notre délégation, ne faisant en cela que suivre la position adoptée par la Conférence générale à sa dix-neuvième session, lorsqu'un petit groupe de gouvernements avait voulu, comme aujourd'hui, contester les pouvoirs de la délé- gation chilienne.
(8.5) Je ne peux m'empêcher de souligner maintenant combien il est curieux, pour ne pas dire simplement pittoresque, que des gouvernements mettent en question les pouvoirs d'une délégation et, partant, d'un gouvernement, alors que ce matin même il a été décidé par acclamation qu'un des membres de cette déléga- tion ferait partie du Comité précisément habilité pour vérifier si les pouvoirs des gouvernements qui parti- cipent à la vingtième session de la Conférence générale émanent bien des autorités compétentes. Je ne sou- haite pas ouvrir une polémique sur les accusations qui ont été portées quant à l'illégitimité du gouvernement du Chili, car cette affaire relève de la souveraineté interne de mon pays, mais je peux rappeler à l'assem- blée qu'il y a quelques mois seulement s'est déroulée une consultation populaire dont l'objet a été précisé- ment de manifester la répugnance du peuple chilien devant ce type d'intervention pratiqué de l'extérieur par des gouvernements qui n'ont aucune autorité pour s'immiscer dans les affaires intérieures du Chili et il est également nécessaire de rappeler que cette même consultation a montré que mon gouvernement jouissait d'un large soutien national.
(8.6) Je dois ajouter que mon gouvernement s'est comporté, pour ce qui est du respect des droits de l'homme, d'une façon dont on ne connaît pas de précédent aux Nations Unies : il a accepté que le Groupe ad hoc de la Commission des droits de l'homme fasse une enquête sur place, ce qui n'a été accepté jusqu'ici par aucun autre Etat.
(8.7) J'espère que le précédent que nous avons créé permettra précisément de démontrer que les gouver- nements qui nous accusent aujourd'hui ont le même courage et la même volonté de mettre en application les idées qu'ils prêchent mais ne pratiquent pas. Justement, la presse d'aujourd'hui nous apprend que le gou- vernement de Cuba, où il y a trois ou quatre mille prisonniers politiques, est en train de les libérer, alors qu'on nous a dit constamment qu'à Cuba les droits de l'homme ne sont pas violés et qu'il n'y a pas de pri- sonniers politiques. Maintenant, M. Fidel Castro l'a reconnu, dans une communication que j'ai lue dans le journal Le Monde, si bien que je nie toute autorité morale pour contester nos pouvoirs et la légitimité de notre gouvernement à ceux qui n'ont pas le droit de le faire. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
9. The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Chile, and call upon the delegate of the German Democratic Republic.
10.1 M. KAEMPF (République démocratique allemande).- y Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, permettez-moi de remercier le Comité de vérifi- cation des pouvoirs et son président de leur travail et du rapport qu'ils ont présenté. Au nom de la délégation de la République démocratique allemande, je tiens a m'associer aux déclarations faites par les representants de 1'Union soviétique et de la Tchécoslovaquie devant le Comité de vérification des pouvoirs et a affirmer, comme vient de le faire le délégué de Cuba, qu'il n'est pas possible de recon- naître les pouvoirs des représentants de la Junte chilienne, au mépris du droit du peuple chilien à l'autodétermination .
10.2 Le gouvernement légitime du Chili a été renversé il y a cinq ans et un régime fasciste a été établi. L'Organisation des Nations Unies, aussi bien que l'Unesco, et de nombreuses autres organi- Sations intergouvernementales réclament depuis ce temps le rétablissement des droits et des libertés
263    politiques, démocratiques, culturelles et syndicales au Chili. Chacun sait que les violations massives des droits de l'homme se poursuivent au Chili. Les récentes manoeuvres de la Junte ne peuvent le faire oublier.
10.3 Notre question est donc la suivante : quand la Junte illégale du Chili cessera-t-elle de passer outre aux décisions et résolutions des organisations internationales ? Je me bornerai a rappeler a cet égard la résolution 14.1 adoptée par la Conférence générale de 1'Unesco a sa dix-neuviéme session, et la résolution 118 adoptée par l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies à sa trente-deuxième session. A sa 104e session, le Conseil exécutif de l'Unesco a réaffirmé lui aussi les décisions de la Conférence générale. Voilà ce qui devrait guider notre décision sur cette question. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
11. The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of the German Democratic Republic, and call upon the distinguished delegate of Panama.
(12) M. BUSTAMANTE (Panama).- (Traduit de l'espagnol.) Monsieur le Président, je ne pensais pas prendre la parole aussi rapidement, mais je m'y suis vu obligé parce que j'ai cru que l'esprit de Nairobi servirait d'exemple a la présente session, bien que beaucoup craignent un retour aux errements du passé. A ce que je vois, le ciel de cette Conférence est pour l'ins- tant couvert de nuages. Je désire étre parfaitement impartial ; je n'ai rien ni pour ni contre les pays qui s'opposent au Chili. Mon pays, le Panama, est l'ami de tous. Il est l'ami des pays socialistes et l'ami du Chili avec lequel nous entretenons des relations diplomatiques, comme avec tous les pays d'Amérique latine. Je veux seulement exprimer ici mon désir que cette session ne commence pas ainsi. Le peuple chilien, les étudiants chiliens ont besoin de tout ce qu'apporte l'Unesco. Pourquoi irions-nous les priver de cela ? Pourquoi irions-nous les punir ? Au Conseil exécutif de l'Unesco, dont je suis membre, je me suis exprimé dernièrement avec une certaine violence sans doute, quand il a été question des droits de l'homme. Je ne sais pas pourquoi on attaque particulièrement les pays latino-américains. Dans le monde, il y a plus de cent pays où sont violés les droits de l'homme, il y a plus de cent pays dont les pouvoirs ne devraient peut-être pas être acceptés ici, mais ils sont acceptés parce que l'Unesco n'est pas un organisme politique, parce qu'ici l'harmonie est nécessaire, parce qu'ici nous devons nous efforcer d'aider tous les peuples du monde dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture, dans tous les domaines de la compé- tence de l'Unesco. Je vous demande, Messieurs, de ne pas vous prononcer contre le Chili. Le Chili est un pays d'Amérique du Sud, c'est un pays de notre région qui, je le répète, a besoin de l'Unesco. Je vous fais cette demande pour que cette Conférence commence sous de bons augures, pour que soit préservé ici l'esprit de Nairobi. Mon pays demande et je demande personnellement qu'il soit permis au Chili de partici- per à cette Conférence générale. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
13. The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Panama. The delegate of Cuba wishes to exercise the right of reply. He has the floor.
(14) M. MARINELLO VIDAURRETA (Cuba).- (Traduit de l'espagnol.) Monsieur le Président, exergant notre droit de réponse, nous voulons faire observer avant tout que nous ne sommes pas hostiles au Chili mais à la Junte qui actuellement opprime le peuple chilien. Il n'est absolument pas fondé de comparer la situation du Chili à celle de Cuba. Notre pays a fourni des preuves de son développement dans tous les domaines de l'éducation pour le peuple, bien que des éléments contre- révolutionnaires aient tenté de faire à Cuba ce que la Junte a fait au Chili. Récemment, au onzième Festival
264    de la jeunesse qui s'est tenu a Cuba, nous avons eu des preuves indiscutables de la situation du Chili, de son peuple et de la jeunesse chilienne. C'est pourquoi nous nous en tenons a notre position et nous nous opposons à nouveau à l'acceptation des pouvoirs de la délégation chilienne. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
15.1 The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Cuba,
15.2 Ladies and gentlemen, in the spirit of Nairobi I would like to ask whether anyone calls for a vote on the reports presented to us by the Credentials Committee.
15.3 As nobody asks for a vote, I take it that the reports are adopted. STATEMENT BY THE TEMPORARY PRESIDENT CONCERNING ARREARS OF CONTRIBUTIONS/ ARRIERES DE CONTRIBUTIONS : DECLARATION DU PRESIDENT PROVISOIRE/DECLARACION DEL PRESIDENTE PROVISIONAL RELATIVA A LAS CONTRIBUCIONES ATRASADAS/ ЗАЯВЛЕНИЕ ВРЕМЕННОГО ПРЕДСЕДАТЕЛЯ ОТНОСИТЕЛЬНО ЗАДОЛЖЕННОСТЕЙ ПО ВЫПЛАТЕ B3HOCOB/ NENAees
16.1 The PRESIDENT: Ladies and gentlemen, my next duty is to make a statement concerning arrears of contri- butions and their consequences with regard to the right to vote at this session of certain Member States. The document for this item is document 20 C/43.
16.2 According to the terms of Article IV, paragraph 8(b), of the Constitution, a Member State shall have no vote in the General Conference if the total amount of contributions due from it exceeds the total amount of contributions payable by it for the current year and the immediately preceding calendar year. At this stage there are nine Member States to which this paragraph applies. Those Member States are therefore unable to vote. They are as follows: Central African Empire, Congo, Grenada, Democratic Kampuchea, Lebanon, Mali, Paraguay, Sierra Leone and Chad.
16.3 On the other hand, paragraph 8(c) of Article IV provides that the General Conference may nevertheless permit such a Member State to vote, if it is satisfied that failure to pay is due to conditions beyond the control of the Member Nation.
16.4 Furthermore, I wish to recall that Rule 79 of the Rules of Procedure calls for the consideration by the Executive Board, before each ordinary session of the General Conference, of communications received from Member States invoking the provisions of Article IV, paragraph 8(c). The Executive Board, after this examination makes recommendations to the General Conference. One Member State presented such a request to the Executive Board, which examined it at its 105th session. The Board adopted a recommendation for the General Conference, but this recommendation is no longer valid since in the meantime that Member State has paid all its arrears of contributions.
16.5 Finally, I should like to inform you that in my capacity as temporary President of the General Conference, I have received either direct or through the Director-General, communications emanating from the following Member States: Chad, Central African Empire, Lebanon and Paraguay, invoking the relevant provisions of the Constitution. Three of these communications are reproduced as annexes to document 20 C/43. I wish, also, to inform you that on the basis of paragraph 4 of Rule 79 of its Rules of Procedure, before taking a decision on those communications the General Conference may decide to refer the question for examination and report to one of its committees or commissions. The question therefore is whether you wish that the cases of Chad, Central African Empire, Lebanon and Paraguay be referred first of all to the Administrative Commission for examination and report to the Conference as soon as possible. Is this your wish?
17. The PRESIDENT: The next action which we must take is to adopt the agenda. The provisional agenda of the twentieth session is contained in document 20 C/1 Rev., which is before you. I now give the floor to the Chairman of the Executive Board. de Mr. MARTIN (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland), Chairman of the Executive oard: Thank you very much, Mr. President. You are of course quite right: this is an essential step that the Conference must take, but I think I can be very brief. The Executive Board examined the provisional agenda of the General Conference at its 104th and 105th sessions in April-May and September-October of this year. The Board undertook this examination in accordance with Rules 9,
10, 11, 12 and 13 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. I now submit to you on behalf of the Board, Mr. President, and through you to the Conference, the provisional agenda as contained in document 20 C/1 Rev.
19.1 The PRESIDENT: I thank the Chairman of the Executive Board. Does anyone wish to speak on this subject? No? I take it then that you wish to adopt the agenda set out in document 20 C/1 Rev.
19.2 The agenda is adopted.
19.3 This, ladies and gentlemen, brings us to the end of this afternoon's meeting. Before adjourn- ing for the day, I wish to call the attention of all heads of delegations to the meeting of the Nomin- ations Committee, which will take place immediately after the end of the plenary. It will be the task of this Commitee to prepare the lists of nominations for the offices of President and Vice-Presidents of the General Conference and Chairmen of the various commissions and committees.
19.4 1 recall that in accordance with Rule 29 of the Rules of Procedure the Nominations Committee shall consist of the heads of all delegations entitled to vote in the Conference. A head of delegation may, of course, designate another member of his delegation to attend meetings and vote in his place. The representative of each delegation on the Committee may be assisted by another member of his delegation.
19.5 The meeting is adjourned. The meeting rose at 3.10 p.m. La séance est levée a 16 h.10 Se levanta la sesión a las 16.10 Заседание закрывается в 16.10 ABN wer BEBO ys aaled) 5 auscas J