Eleventh plenary meeting
30 October 1978 at 9.10 a.m. President: Mr. LEBLANC (Canada) Onzième séance plénière
30 octobre 1978 à 9 h, 10 Président : M. LEBLANC (Canada) Undécima sesiôn plenaria
1. Le PRESIDENT.- Je déclare ouverte la onzième séance plénière. Je donne la parole au premier orateur inscrit S. Exc. le Dr Evans Anfom, commissaire à l'éducation et à la culture et chef de la délégation du Ghana.
2.1 Mr. ANFOM (Ghana): Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, your excellencies, distinguished delegates: I am pleased to join my colleagues in congratulating you on your election as President of this important Conference. Your election demonstrates not only the trust which this Conference reposes in your personal qualities, but also the trust which it reposes in the country which you represent. Ghana wishes you success as you preside over the deliberations of this session during these difficult times.
2.2 May I also take this opportunity to extend our sincere thanks to the Government and people of France for their warm welcome and for the manner in which they have always assisted our Organ- ization in performing its important role for the general welfare and improvement of mankind.
2.3 I would like to congratulate the Director-General on his excellent report on the activities of the Organization during the last biennium. Characteristically, he outlined for us not only the activities carried out during the period, but also the problems which will face us at this General Conference and in the future.
2.4 Two years ago, Mr. President, when we met in Nairobi, we shared an overriding concern to preserve the unity of our Organization. Out of that concern was born a spirit of conciliation and consensus which enabled Unesco to weather some of the stormiest moments of its existence. Today, as we meet again, it is the hope of my delegation that the spirit of Nairobi will continue to permeate al our deliberations, so that this Conference may once again demonstrate its capacity and willingness to make an important contribution to the achievement of peace.
2.5 Without doubt, peace continues to be the main preoccupation of the vast majority of peoples everywhere. Everywhere, people yearn for real and genuine peace: peace which is not based on the fear of war and its consequent wanton destruction, but on a genuine desire of the world's peoples to seek interrelationships which will include scrupulous respect for human rights, for freedom and for self-development.
2.6 What we see around us today is the turmoil of human conflict. There is virtually no section of the world which is not beset with conflicts - often, indeed, between Member States of this very Organization which we all value so highly. In places, racism of the most horrendous nature con- tinues to flaunt its nauseating arrogance, using differences of colour as an excuse for trampling underfoot the dignity and basic freedoms of other peoples, and at the same time striking at the human foundations of peace and understanding: education and cultural development. Wherever we look, in the Third World for example, hunger, disease and illiteracy are on the increase, reducing an evergrowing number of people to conditions of abject poverty and indignity. Added to these evils, there are prejudices based on religion, sex and political ideology, all leading to discriminatory practices and the denial of basic human rights. These are some of the real challenges to peace that we must do our utmost to overcome. We should, therefore, endeavour to make a start in the minds of men, where, as we know too well, human conflicts begin; we must endeavour to forge our con- cepts of peace while these minds are still young and impressionable.
2.7 We who are placed in a special position to deal with the development of human minds through education have an excellent opportunity to instil these basic concepts of peace in the young and youthful minds we hold in trust. We should, as educators, as teachers and as members of this comity of nations, take up this challenge seriously, and construct in the minds of these future leaders of our societies the concepts of peace that can lead the world into a new millennium. We should take positive steps to build into school syllabuses a new concept of peace that respects human dignity.
2.8 Mr. President, my delegation believes that we all bear a share of the responsibility for positive efforts towards the achievement of lasting peace with understanding among men. The present economic order divides the world into the "haves" and "have-nots", into developed and developing nations and into the "rich" and the "poor" nations. These divisions, by whatever labels they are known, draw attention to the wide economic gap that exists between the two groups. Far from closing this gap, the present worid economic order creates the conditions for its further widening, and this must surely be a source of human conflict and unrest. :
2.9 Narrowing this gap is obviously one of the ways of ensuring world peace. And this is what the new international economic order seeks to do. The developing nations which have still not achieved the stage of technological "take-off" should be assisted to build up the technology which will help them to exploit more effectively their own natural resources. They will further need to be aided, through just and fair trade practices, to obtain a maximum return for their produce, in order that they may more effectively raise the standard of living of their teeming and deprived populations. It will, on the other hand, be a solemn responsibility of the developing nations to learn to manage their resources wisely in order to share the results of their labour equitably among all their peoples.
2.10 Mr. President, to many of us in the developing world, this is where Unesco has a role to play, in helping us to sort out our own problems and - through education - helping to develop a new world order based on the peace and stability without which there can be no true development. Hence, the General Conferences at which Unesco's programme of activities is discussed assume for us a very special significance, and we are gratified to note that the excellent Draft Programme and Budget submitted by the Director-General covers all the important areas in a bold and imaginative way.
2.11 The general orientation of the programme corresponds in many ways to our own options in Ghana. We note with satisfaction the importance attached to the connection between education and work. This is apparent in the number of proposed research studies, which will assist us in our efforts to meet new demands on our educational system, which has already produced thousands of young men and women, many of whom we have been unable to absorb into useful and gainful employ- ment. This inability of the educational system to make young people useful to themselves and to society has, in fact, been the major defect in education in many developing nations like Ghana.
2.12 Acknowledging this situation, and also the contribution which education, by helping to redress the economic balance, can make to peace, we in Ghana are introducing a new educational structure, the aim of which is to change the very content and objectives of education at all levels. To this end, the content of education seeks to strike a careful balance between the purely academic and the technical and vocational elements of the curriculum. In doing this, we consider the child's environ- ment as the basic context in which he must be educated; we relate this environment closely to the material of his education, and place the technical and vocational offerings of this environment at the disposal of the school system. This enables us, for example, to involve the village cobbler, the village carpenter and their like in the process of educating young people. In this way, we hope to predispose or even precondition the child to the world of productive work at whatever level he enters it on leaving school.
2.13 In developing this type of system, we have accorded a prominent place to agriculture, recog- nizing its importance in our economy. Every effort is being made to incorporate agriculture of a productive type in the educational structure. This, and other considerations, have underscored quite effectively the need to give very careful consideration to the scientific and technological compon- ents of our educational system. Ghana was therefore deeply interested in the discussions that led to the institution of the Conference of Ministers of African Member States responsible for the appreciation of science and technology to development (CASTAFRICA). The exceptional contribution which science and technology could make towards a steady improvement in the quality of life of all peoples, particu- larly the peoples of the developing world, is something which commands overwhelming consensus. It is further generally agreed that international co-operation in science and technology can make a
474    decisive contribution towards the creation of an indigenous capability for development. The need for 11 such co-operation is, in fact, one of the main justifications for the very existence of our Organization. All these points found admirable expression in resolution 2.01, adopted at the nineteenth session of the General Conference. That the growth rate proposed for the Science Sector should be the highest in the entire Draft Programme and Budget will not, I am sure, raise any eyebrows. Indeed, if the financial resources of Unesco permitted, a higher growth rate than 8.9 per cent would have been desirable. But we must work within our budgetary limitations and, in this connection, it is the considered view of the Government of Ghana that the Director-General has succeeded admirably not only in transposing lines of emphasis in the Medium-Term Plan into actions in the Draft Programme and Budget but also in presenting a balanced programme which takes due account of the specific needs of the peoples of the Third World.
2.14 Mr. President, it is nearly five years since the CASTAFRICA Conference was held in Dakar. Participants in that important conference believed it to constitute a significant landmark in the plan- ning of science and technology for the African region, and this indeed continues to be Ghana's view. However, any dispassionate study of the record of follow-up action of the Conference reveals that we are very far from realizing the high hopes which it inspired and which found such eloquent expression in the Dakar Declaration. It is true that the Unesco Special Fund for Research and Experimental Development in Africa recommended by CASTAFRICA has been established, but this project has hardly got off the ground. Again, two subregional workshops on scientific and technological co- operation have been held, the first in Cairo in 1974 and the second in Nairobi in 1975. A third workshop is planned for the West African subregion in December of this year. Over the five-year period, however, it cannot be said that much has been achieved. There is an obvious need for a more dynamic follow-up to this programme.
2.15 Chapter 2 of document 20 C/5 contains no explicit mention of CASTAFRICA, but does include-- in paragraph 2057 - a proposal "to establish intergovernmental bodies to formulate and implement a science and technology policy directly linked with the socio-economic development objectives of the subregion", in co-operation with the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and with the Central African Economic and Customs Union (CAECU). This proposal deserves the support of all the Member States concerned, as does the proposal for the establishment of a standing conference of national councils for science and technology policy in Africa, in co-operation with the Organization of African Unity and the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa. It is not at all clear, however, whether they are intended as follow-up actions of CASTAFRICA, or whether they are entirely new, and not essentially related to the CASTAFRICA recommendations. But as these important new proposals can be conveniently regarded as follow-up action to the CASTAFRICA Conference, and may indeed be intended as such by the Director-General, it seems desirable that this connection be made explicit, as in the case of proposals arising out of CASTASIA and CASTARAB, so that CASTAFRICA might not be-overlooked or forgotten by default.
2.16 Mr. President, while on the subject of education and the various areas of educational develop- ment on which we have focused priority attention, permit me to mention, albeit in passing, that Ghana wishes to propose that concerted action be taken with regard to children's books. This would be very appropriate in the context of the International Year of the Child, since it is the child, as 1 indicated earlier, who should be the focal point and the point of initial action in any programme relating to peace. We should take steps to identify and take action on books that foster gross prejudices in children against peoples of other societies; and we should endeavour to improve the opportunities of children for mutual appreciation and mutual understanding the world over, through the identification or development of appropriate reading material.
2.17 As far as education and culture are concerned, I should like, briefly, to mention one or two matters concerning which Ghana has very strong reservations. The work plan under Objective 1.3 (Women and development) set out in paragraphs 4130-4135 of document 20 C/5, is a most inadequate response to the enormous interest generated by International Women's Year in a great many Member States. We do not doubt that training intended to enhance the role of the media in promoting women's participation in social and economic development and in cultural and political life is important. But practical training courses, especially for women in rural areas, are of such urgent necessity that they must be accommodated within the programme for the next biennium, and funds must be provided for them from extra-budgetary sources. In Ghana, for example, the National Council of Women has identified specific areas of research on issues affecting women; it has used the findings as a basis for a seminar oriented towards project planning; and it is now ready to take action to implement an experimental training project to train women for participation in efforts to develop rural areas. This project includes on-the-spot courses in a number of selected villages. This is the type of project we consider most worthwhile at the present stage, and any Unesco grant and backing would be most appreciated.
2.18 Ghana supports the work plan in connection with Objective 7.6, the aim of which is to assist regional projects for the preservation of the cultural heritage. In this respect, I should like to urge very sincerely that countries which possess cultural property from other countries should assist the latter in locating that property and discuss its return bilaterally in a realistic manner. Further- more, we believe that bilateral and multilateral negotiations for the restitution of cultural property should first be conducted at professional levels, before the matter is referred to the political auth- orities. This, in our opinion, will contribute to the recognition that cultural property, as material for enhancing cultural education and enjoyment, belongs in the first place to the community which owns it, and then to the world community at large.
2.19 Mr. President, I would like now to deal with two major Draft Declarations before this Confer- ence. I refer to the Draft Declaration on Race and Racial Prejudice and the Draft Declaration on the Fundamental Principles Governing the Contribution of the Mass Media to Strengthening Peace and International Understanding and to Combating War Propaganda, Racialism and Apartheid. With respect to the former, my delegation would like to recall that the text before us is the culmination of several years of concerted efforts by Unesco. We congratulate the Director-General and all who contributed towards the preparation of the intergovernmental meeting, which, as its report indicates, approved the Draft before you with the widest possible consensus. It is my delegation's fervent hope that this consensus will be maintained and that the Draft will command the widest possible support at this session of the General Conference.
2.20 With regard to the Draft Declaration on the Contribution of the Mass Media, my delegation believes that the mass media have a vital role to play in the education of the public against war propaganda, racialism and apartheid, and can help promote peace throughout the world. Indeed, no one can seriously deny this. But while the general purposes of this Draft Declaration may be said to receive the approval of the many delegations here present, certain aspects of the text may give rise to controversy. At this session, we must bear in mind the primary goals of the Draft, and discuss it objectively and with an open mind. Our objectives during the debate on this issue must be to arrive at formulations that meet the widest possible consensus; and to work out a programme of action which will give effect to the new formulations.
2.21 Mr. President, the delegation of Ghana would like to emphasize that although many of the problems which the world faces today are complex ones, they are not insoluble, since they are human problems and thus lie within the scope of man's capacity to solve them. They spring from prejudice, greed and other vices, at the personal, national and international levels. The ever widening economic gap between the rich and the poor nations of the world and the diversion of aid meant for some poor countries into the pockets of a few powerful people are but a few examples of this prevailing immorality. Whereas education should help to solve some of these problems, mere academic education without a corresponding moral content will not necessarily guarantee success. We must therefore ensure that the education we give to children will enable them to distinguish between right and wrong, between truth and falsehood; and that they grow up into men and women of understanding, compassion and integrity who are dedicated to the high and noble ideals of freedom, justice, respect for the rights of others and the realization that all men are created equal. We must ensure that they grow into men and women who will do good deeds not because of what others may think about them, but because it is right to do so. Only then may we be sure that the future generations who are our present responsibility will be free of the prejudices which give birth to the conditions generating conflict.
2.22 Finally, Mr. President, though the programme of work is heavy and there are issues which are bound to generate controversy, it is our delegation's hope that our discussions will be conducted in a friendly spirit and with respect for contrary points of view, and that we shall lay more stress on the many ties that bind us together as members of one Organization with common goals than on the few issues that divide us. It is my delegation's hope that our exchanges will generate not heat, but light that will help to illuminate both our problems (that we may see them more clearly), and the path to their successful solution. Thank you, Mr. President.
3. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Ghana et je donne la parole à S. Exc. M. D.T. Matenje, ministre de l'éducation et chef de la délégation du Malawi.
4.1 Mr. MATENJE (Malawi): Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the delegation of Malawi, may I take this opportunity of associating myself with the congratulations and sentiments expressed by my colleagues on your election to the presidency of this General Con- ference. I have no doubt, Mr. President, that under your expert guidance this Conference will be a success, and I would like to convey to you, Mr. President, as well as to the distinguished delegates, the fraternal greetings and good wishes of my President, the Government and the people of Malawi.
4.2 Mr. President, I would now like to make a few comments on document 20 C/5, which is the main subject of the present debate.
4.3 Malawi has continued to be a member of Unesco because it subscribes fully to what our Organiza- tion believes in and stands for. Malawi is strongly opposed to war, and believes in the solution of problems by peaceful means. My Government believes in and advocates the policy of contact and dialogue and not boycott and isolation. We believe that through contact and discussion people get to know one another better, and that thereby, hatred and prejudice gradually disappear, to be replaced by peace, calm, harmony and mutual respect. We therefore welcome the promotion of human rights and dignity, and the strengthening of peace and harmony through contact and mutual understanding among nations; and we urge Unesco to continue to be vigilant in exercising its influence to reduce tension, hatred and warfare among Member States, through its well-founded educational, scientific and cultural policies.
4.4 Mr. President, my delegation fully agrees with the proposals to improve the status of women. You will be pleased to know that this is a subject to which my Government attaches great importance. My Government has always made sure that women's rights are protected, so that they may play their rightful role in society. Today, there are women in Malawi who participate in business, and who      even manage estates and farms. Through the participation and dedication of both women and men in 11 the economic development of the country, the national per capita income has increased significantly (by over 55 per cent) since the attainment of independence in 1964.
4.5 As you may be aware, Mr. President, Malawi's economy is based on agriculture, and the Government devotes particular attention to agricultural development through appropriate land develop- ment programmes and research. Through the guidance provided by those in charge of agricultural projects as well as those in positions of authority and influence, these agricultural programmes have been a great success, so that our people now have enough food to eat and are able to sell their surplus production, thereby acquiring money for clothes, for school fees for their children and for other purposes.
4.6 It is only fitting to preface my remarks on educational development in Malawi with a reference to what we consider to be the aim of education in our country, and with a brief account of current educational developments at its various levels. The main aim of education in Malawi is not to produce academics who are steeped in theory yet divorced from reality, but to train men and women who can work constructively with their hands as well as with their minds. To this end, the school curriculum has been carefully designed to prepare young men and women who will be able to play their critical role in society, and who are expected to make a positive contribution to the development process. The educational system has directed its efforts towards meeting manpower requirements. Care has always been taken at the various levels of education to ensure that our pupils and students are not educated and trained in a vacuum, but for the society in which they live. For this reason, our educational system discards any aspects of education which would tend to divorce pupils and students from our cultural norms and social values. We also believe that discipline and education are insepar- able, and we accept as axiomatic the fact that much learning without good character amounts virtually to no learning at all. The four cornerstones on which the nation of Malawi is founded, namely unity, loyalty, discipline and obedience, are therefore inherent in the educational system, and indisci- pline in any form is not tolerated.
4.7 For pupils and teachers alike, we insist on proper decorum and an acceptable mode of dress. We believe it is only proper that the authority of the teacher must be acknowledged by every pupil, and that it is incumbent upon every pupil to give the teacher due respect. Pupils who deliberately and flagrantly violate the expected modes of conduct are suspended and even excluded from school.
4.8 At the primary school level, inculcation of the basic skills of numeracy and literacy has been given due emphasis, in order to ensure permanent literacy for the majority of the pupils for whom education ends at the primary level.
4.9 As part of the restructuring of the curriculum to produce a greater degree of relevance, agri- culture has been introduced at all levels of education. Primary school pupils are introduced to the principles of good farming applicable to such activities as crop husbandry, animal husbandry and horticulture. We strongly believe, Mr. President, that pupils need to feel a sense of purpose in the curriculum and in what they do in their work. The curriculum must be related to the pupil's immediate environment. The pupil must be convinced that what he is learning is meaningful in his life. It is true that the concept of lifelong education extends beyond the limits of the school, but I feel that the school should continue to play a significant role in the educational system. The inculcation of these principles of good farming at this early stage enables pupils to develop the skills for modern farming while at school. In this way, school leavers return to the land reasonably equipped to deal with and understand rural problems and thus to participate effectively in national development.
4.10 Even as early as the primary school, we try to stimulate in the pupil the initiative, confidence, resourcefulness and sense of dedication which are so necessary to the development process. We seek to inculcate in our pupils the love of knowledge so that they can continue to learn after they have left school. We believe that once the spirit of self-reliance, which is manifest in many of the self-help activities in which our pupils are involved, has been developed, it is self-sustaining.
4.11 Malawi's educational policy for the 1970s emphasizes education for agricultural and rural develop- ment. The aim is to train young men and women in the skills needed for individuals to fulfil their role as useful citizens. At the primary level the basic approach has been to improve the quality of education, and to redirect it towards the needs of the economically important agricultural sector. Steps have been taken to ensure that the primary school curriculum, while serving the needs of the few who pass on to secondary education, also meets the requirements of the vast majority of pupils who will earn their living in the rural areas. It has always been borne in mind, however, that primary education, like the other levels of education, has two basic functions: firstly, to meet the needs of the individual for his own development; and secondly, to satisfy the needs of society for its general development. Primary education has therefore been charged with the responsibility of ensuring that those who pass through it do not later relapse into illiteracy.
4.12 While accepting that education should lead to the full development of the innate abilities and character of individuals, and that there is virtue in the search for knowledge for its own sake, we are of the opinion that the type of education provided should be in conformity with the aspirations of society as a whole and with the national goal. The school, therefore, has a major responsibility in developing in individuals the basic values of their society.
4.13 Mr. President, I have so far been talking about the aims of education as we see them. Having identified our educational goals, I now wish to give a brief summary of current educational develop- ments at the various levels of education.
4.14 During the 14 years of independence, great strides have been made in primary education. At the time of independence there were 359,841 pupils in primary schools; by the beginning of the
1977/1978 school year enrolment had risen to 663,940. This, you will appreciate, is a great achievement.
4.15 The importance of integrating educational policy into the overall strategy for economic and social development has always been recognized. To this end, government policy for primary educa- tion is geared towards the consolidation of existing schools and the elimination of unassisted schools as it becomes possible to absorb them.
4.16 The Government has also directed its attention towards the qualitative improvement of primary education, through the restructuring of the curriculum in order to bring about a greater degree of relevance, and the through provision of better trained teachers. Through proper liaison between the Government and local education authorities responsible for primary education in their respective areas, proprietors and local communities have continued to provide better accommodation for teachers and better teaching facilities.
4.17 One of the most important factors, particularly at the primary level, has been the self-help spirit manifested in the number of school buildings erected on the people's own initiative. The Government has supported these efforts by providing as many teachers as possible to staff those schools. It is only fair to admit, however, that some of the buildings have been inadequate for educational purposes and their useful life has averaged only a few years. It is now the Govern- ment's intention to build one model school in each district, thus developing a prototype which the communities in the surrounding areas can copy on a self-help basis. In this way, it is hoped to improve the quality of future structures.
4.18 In Malawi, secondary education has been accepted as a vital instrument, not only because of its direct and immediate output to employment, but also as a "feeder" to the post-secondary levels of education. The Government has, at this level, undertaken a programme of consolidation and expan- sion designed to improve the effectiveness of the system and to make it more responsive to local needs. Apart from the introduction of agriculture, the curriculum in selected schools has been further diversified through the introduction of technical subjects (woodwork, metalwork and technical drawing) and home economics. This early exposure to technical subjects helps to produce school leavers with the necessary skills for more advanced training courses at the middle and higher tech- nical levels.
4.19 After Malawi attained independence, the Government's policy in education at the secondary level was to build at least one day secondary school in each district. This is now an accomplished fact. There are now four Government boarding secondary schools, 27 Government day secondary schools, 18 aided boarding schools and one aided day secondary school.
4.20 Day secondary schools are steadily improving the quality of education which they offer. The introduction of technical subjects in eight of these schools, has, as I have pointed out, diversified the curriculum, which now maintains a proper balance between academic’ and practical subjects. The first "IDA Project", which brought technical subjects into secondary schools, has been quite success- ful, and will be followed by a second project to bring home economics to more schools.
4.21 The next step in secondary education is a consolidation programme, the aim of which is to improve and expand secondary education through improved facilities and the broadening of the curriculum in existing schools. This programme is designed to reduce inadequacies and deficiencies with regard to the provision of libraries, laboratories, boarding facilities, teachers' accommodation, water and sanitation at day secondary schools. This will ensure equal opportunities in terms of educational facilities at all secondary schools.
4.22 The programme also envisages the improvement and expansion of existing girls' boarding schools, to permit the admission of more pupils and thereby increase the chances of girls to complete their secondary education. It has been the Government's policy to encourage parents to send their daughters to school, since the educational attainment of women has, in the past, been considerably lower than that of men. However, in recent years, female participation at the different levels of education has increased. This trend augurs well for the future, particularly when one is mindful of the famous saying which states that, "when you educate a man you educate a person, but when you educate a woman you educate a nation".
4.23 Mr. President, the Government's policy objective with regard to primary teacher training is to consolidate all training in three large institutions, each with an enrolment of up to 540 students. This will ensure that the existing facilities are used to the full, and that there is efficient use of professional staff.
4.24 As far as higher education is concerned, the University of Malawi has, since its establishment in 1965, also diversified its programmes, in order to cater for rational development needs. Current plans include the introduction of degree programmes in accountancy and engineering at the Polytechnic, and increasing the intake at Bunda College as well as at Chancellor College. In our own situation, the University is seen as part and parcel of the total educational framework, contributing within the system to clearly defined areas of national development. We strongly believe that there need be no dichotomy between the university's autonomy and its responsiveness and sensitivity to national needs. As a matter of fact, we feel that the university has a major contribution to make towards national development in leading informed opinion on the nation's long-term needs.
4.25 Since time is against me, Mr. President, I will say that my speech will be circulated, but allow 11 me a few minutes to speak on the usefulness of archives.+ In so far as archival services in Malawi are concerned, Unesco has provided some 97 per cent of all the steel shelving used; it has supplied a Recordak Magnaprint reader-printer and has donated standard grey steel cabinets for our map collection. This year a further grant of £1,743 (sterling) for steel shelving is being considered.
4.26 Malawi, Mr. President, is confident that the recommendation by the Intergovernmental Council for the General Information Programme concerning priorities of the programme will be approved for the benefit of the world's archival heritage.
4.27 In view of the structural weakness of modern paper and the dangers of climate, insects and overhandling, my Government wishes to submit a request for financial assistance in the establishment of technical workshops to fumigate, repair and thus prolong the life of documents in the National Archives of Malawi. These workshops will also serve as pilot laboratories for the study and teaching of conservation and reprography techniques and methods for the whole East and Central African Regional Branch of the International Council on Archives. We believe that Malawi, because of its undoubted economic and political stability, offers the right basic conditions for this purpose. Its geographical situation would make such a centre easily accessible to archival institutions in East, Central and Southern Africa, and we are submitting this proposal to Unesco, because there is an urgent need for progress in archival and records management as an instrument for administrative, socio-economic and cultural development in Malawi in particular and in the countries of East, Central and Southern Africa as a whole.
4.28 Finally, Mr. President, we in Malawi also feel that it would be of mutual benefit to Unesco and ourselves if a National Commission for Unesco was formed in our country; and I am sure that you will be pleased to learn that steps are being taken to set up such a Commission, and that it will soon become a reality. Thank you, Mr. President.
5. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Malawi et je donne la parole a S. Exc. M. Galema Guilavogui, ministre de l'enseignement préuniversitaire et de l'alphabétisation et chef de la délégation de la Guinée.
6.1 M. GUILAVOGUI (Guinée).- Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, honorables délégués, vous me permettrez de rendre tout d'abord un hommage mérité à la mémoire du président de la République du Kenya, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, l'une des grandes figures de l'histoire des peuples d'Afrique, pour le rôle important qu'il a joué dans les problèmes africains et mondiaux et pour les heureuses conditions qu'il a su créer pour le parfait déroulement de la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco.
6.2 La délégation guinéenne a l'agréable devoir de transmettre à la vingtième session de la Confé- rence générale les chaleureuses salutations du peuple de Guinée, de son Parti-Etat, le Parti démo- cratique et de son leader, le président Ahmed Sekou Touré. Elle voudrait spécialement, Monsieur le Président, vous adresser ses vives félicitations pour votre brillante élection à la présidence de la Conférence.
6.3 Monsieur le Président, notre délégation voudrait saisir cette occasion pour rendre un hommage également mérité à M. Taaitta Toweett, président sortant, pour la compétence et la perspicacité dont il a fait preuve tout au long des débats de la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco. Elle félicite également M. Leonard C.J. Martin, président du Conseil exécutif pour la minu- tie et l'efficacité avec lesquelles il a présidé aux préparatifs de la vingtième session de la Conférence générale. Elle se plait aussi à saluer l'admission au sein de notre Organisation des pays frères que sont la République populaire d'Angola, les Comores, la République du Cap-Vert et le Royaume du Swaziland.
6.4 Monsieur le Président, permettez enfin à ma délégation de s'acquitter d'un devoir plus qu'agréable, celui de rendre un vibrant hommage au grand homme de culture qu'est M. Amadou- Mahtar M'Bow, directeur général de l'Unesco, pour son action éminemment positive depuis qu'il a été élu à la tête de notre Organisation. En effet, grâce à son dynamisme, à sa grande et vive intelli- gence, à ses immenses capacités intellectuelles reconnues et admirées de tous, il a conféré à notre Organisation une plus grande efficacité et un plus grand rayonnement dans le monde. La délégation guinéenne voudrait encore une fois lui réaffirmer solennellement son total soutien dans la poursuite et le renforcement de l'action entreprise. Elle est d'ores et déjà convaincue que cette action débou- chera sur une plus grande compréhension entre les peuples en vue de l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre mondial. Pour parvenir à cette fin, les peuples du Tiers Monde, et particulièrement ceux d'Afrique, fondent de grands espoirs sur l'Unesco et lui font confiance dans sa mission de promotion de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture au service de la justice, de la paix, de la solidarité pour le bonheur des peuples. The undelivered parts of the speaker's statement in plenary are, with the authorization of the President, annexed to the verbatim record of the meeting.
6.5 Monsieur le Président, de graves problèmes secouent l'humanité. La mission de l'Unesco, qui a, de toutes les institutions internationales, le champ d'action le plus vaste, est d'aider la communauté internationale a les résoudre.
6.6 L'apartheid, le colonialisme sévissent ; de nombreux foyers de guerre semés par l'impérialisme mettent en péril la sécurité du monde ; les calamités naturelles créent la détresse ; et surtout, le profond déséquilibre qui existe dans les rapports internationaux n'est pas près de se résorber.
6.7 L'apartheid n'est pas une aberration localisée mais le symptôme d'une crise morale à l'échelle de l'humanité. C'est un arrogant défi lancé à toutes les nations.
6.8 Dans ce dernier quart du XXe siècle où les progrès de la science, de la technique et de la technologie propulsent l'homme vers l'an 2000, le seul continent qui subit encore l'abominable joug de la colonisation et de la domination, c'est l'Afrique. Le seul continent qui gémit encore dans les car- cans de la discrimination et de l'oppression raciales érigées en système officiel d'admistration, c'est encore l'Afrique.
6.9 Les résolutions dont le nombre ne se compte plus, fruits de la sagesse des nations, sont dé- daigneusement rejetées par la bande des racistes de l'Afrique australe ; les tentatives de médiation se heurtent elles aussi à une monstreuse surdité. On veut nous dissimuler la réalité, tenter d'en- dormir notre vigilance et notre conscience en nous parlant de l'octroi d'une souveraineté fictive, le but véritable étant que les odieux régimes de l'Afrique australe se perpétuent.
6.10 Devant ce constat d'échec de la raison, la communauté internationale doit comprendre que les tenants de l'apartheid et du colonialisme ne renonceront jamais par générosité à leurs pratiques illégitimes. Sharpeville, Soweto, Cassinga, Cape Town, Gugluetu, pour ne citer que ceux-là, le souvenir de ces douloureux épisodes du génocide perpétré contre des populations qui sont dans leur droit le plus absolu, demeure vivace dans nos mémoires.
6.11 Bien plus grave, l'insolence et la barbarie s'étendent. Quodidiennement, de multiples agres- sions sont perpétrées contre des Etats souverains, tels que le Mozambique, l'Angola et la Zambie. Le dernier raid criminel des racistes de Rhodésie contre la République de Zambie est encore douloureu- sement présent dans nos esprits : le bilan a été de 1.500 morts, enfants innocents, femmes et vieillards.
6.12 L'Afrique du Sud, la Rhodésie doivent être contraintes à entendre raison, à plier sous le poids de la justice et à respecter enfin la dignité et la sécurité de l'homme dans cette partie du monde. Et ce, non pas par les seuls pays limitrophes de l'Afrique du Sud et de la Rhodésie, mais par le vaste front uni de toutes les nations du monde éprises de justice et de liberté. Les vaillants combattants de la liberté d'Afrique du Sud, de Namibie et de Zimbabwe peuvent être pleinement assurés du soutien inconditionnel et de la solidarité agissante du peuple de Guinée organisé au sein de son Parti-Etat, le Parti démocratique de Guinée.
6.13 Notre délégation voudrait aussi réaffirmer son appui ferme et indéfectible à la cause du peuple palestinien martyr, dont la lutte pour le rétablissement de ses droits les plus élémentaires devrait continuer à mobiliser tous les hommes épris de liberté, de justice et de paix.
6.14 Monsieur le Président, la violence, l'injustice et les inégalités qui sévissent aujourd'hui dans le monde sont le fait du profond déséquilibre, volontairement provoqué et obstinément entretenu par l'impérialisme dans les rapports internationaux. Il était donc impérieux, comme on l'a déjà dit à Nairobi, que l'Unesco se préoccupât de l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international. Car en fait, le devoir de l'Unesco est de s'attacher résolument à l'élimination des inégalités afin que l'éducation soit un droit pour tous et pour chacun et que le potentiel scientifique, technique et technologique cesse d'être l'apanage des seuls pays industrialisés.
6.15 Monsieur le Président, l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre mondial doit aider à poursuivre la lutte pour l'identité culturelle de chaque peuple. Notre Président n'écrit-il pas : "la culture est la sève vivifiante qui nourrit la civilisation... le produit de la créativité humaine... l'élément catalyseur du peuple." Priver un peuple des éléments de la culture de ses ancêtres, c'est lui enlever une partie de son être, c'est vouloir lui arracher les yeux et le précipiter vers le gouffre infini de la méconnais- sance de soi et, partant, de celle des autres.
6.16 Aussi la délégation guinéenne félicite-t-elle très sincèrement l'Unesco et son directeur général, M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, pour l'action courageusement entreprise en vue du retour dans leur pays d'origine des valeurs de civilisation dont de nombreux peuples avaient été injustement spoliés.
6.17 Victimes de la colonisation, c'est nous surtout qui avons été les victimes du pillage systé- matique des plus précieux éléments de notre patrimoine culturel. Il s'agit de nos statues, de nos masques, de nos outils en pierre, de nos armes, de nos métaux gravés, etc., ces irremplaçabies critallisations des aspirations du génie de nos peuples, ces jalons signifiants de notre histoire et de notre culture. Malgré nous, nous sommes absents dans nos musées et présents dans ceux des autres. La délégation guinéenne souhaite vivement que l'Unesco engage dès maintenant des actions concrètes et vigoureuses de sensibilisation de l'opinion publique internationale afin de provoquer le retour des biens culturels dans leur pays d'origine. Tout en apportant son soutien à l'idée de la réunion du Comité intergouvernemental chargé d'étudier les conditions de la restitution de ces biens culturels, elle estime que la date de cette réunion pourrait être avancée de 1980 à 1979.
6.18 Monsieur le Président, dans le domaine de l'éducation, les objectifs visés à cette vingtième session de la Conférence générale ont été depuis longtemps examinés en Guinée. Les idées-forces de la politique nouvelle de l'éducation exprimée par l'Unesco ont dépassé en République de Guinée le stade des dispositions théoriques. Elles sont devenues aujourd'hui des réalités concrètes et quoti- diennement vécues. En effet, la Guinée nouvelle émergeant de ses longues années de nuit coloniale a, dès l'indépendance, entrepris une réforme de l'enseignement visant à donner à son peuple, organisé au sein de son parti d'avant-garde, la possibilité d'assumer toutes les responsabilités qui condi- tionnent son bonheur, celui de l'Afrique et celui de l'humanité tout entière.
6.19 Ainsi l'école, conçue naguère pour former sommairement une infime poignée d'auxiliaires devant tenir servilement les dossiers de l'occupation, a été fondamentalement rénovée et transformée en école dénommée Centre d'éducation révolutionnaire. Il a fallu pour atteindre les objectifs fixés prendre des décisions hardies telles que la démocratisation et la gratuité de l'enseignement, la refonte complète du contenu des programmes, la refonte des manuels scolaires, l'enseignement dans les langues natio- nales, l'introduction du travail productif par la liaison entre l'école et la vie, la rénovation de l'admi- nistration et de la gestion de l'école, etc.
6.20 La République de Guinée a opté pour la culture de masse qui permet à chacun de participer, quelles que soient ses origines et ses moyens, à la vie culturelle du pays. Elle bannit vigoureuse- ment tout développement culturel différentiel, toute politique de formation d'une élite coupée du peuple. Dans notre pays, la ligne de masse appliquée à l'enseignement se manifeste dans deux direc- tions complémentaires. Sur le plan horizontal, elle vise à scolariser tous les enfants en âge de l'être afin d'éliminer définitivement l'analphabétisme. Sur le plan vertical, elle vise à hisser l'ensemble des enfants au niveau scientifique le plus élevé. L'enseignement est rendu obligatoire pour tous les enfants jusqu'au terme de la douzième année d'études (classe du baccalauréat - deuxième partie). Il est gratuit pour tous les cycles jusqu'au terme des études menant aux différents grades de l'univer- sité. La mise en oeuvre systématique de la politique d'enseignement de masse a permis à notre pays d'atteindre, en moins de vingt ans de souveraineté, un taux d'accroissement des effectifs scolaires de 952 pour cent. Le taux de scolarisation est sans commune mesure avec celui de la période coloniale.
6.21 L'adoption des langues nationales comme véhicule et support de la pensée scientifique, tech- nique et philosophique correspond aussi à notre volonté de donner à notre éducation un caractère national. D'autre part, nous estimons que l'arme la mieux appropriée dont doit disposer le peuple pour l'exercice correct de son pouvoir, c'est sa langue. Dans cette voie et depuis la date historique d'août 1968, l'enseignement scolaire dans les langues nationales a régulièrement progressé ; depuis
1977, l'enseignement est délivré dans les langues nationales jusqu'à la septième année d'études (pre- mière année du deuxième cycle ou première année de collège).
6.22 Dans la refonte générale du contenu des programmes, une place particulière est réservée à la liaison entre l'école et la vie et au travail productif qui est l'un des principes fondamentaux de la réforme. Comme l'a dit le président Ahmed Sekou Touré : "L'école doit cesser d'être une machine. à décerner des diplômes pour devenir un moyen de formation des hommes, producteurs des biens concourant au bonheur du peuple". Ainsi, l'école, depuis son insertion dans la vie de notre pays, constitue désormais un centre d'éducation révolutionnaire dont l'objectif n'est pas d'enseigner uni- quement des connaissances intellectuelles théoriques, mais de dispenser aussi et surtout un ensei- gnement technique et professionnel grâce à la participation des jeunes aux activités productives de la nation. L'école devient donc à la fois un lieu de formation polytechnique et une unité de production fortement soudée à la localité qu'elle a mission de transformer. En insérant profondément l'école dans les réalités socio-économiques et géopolitiques du milieu, la révolution culturelle socialiste fonde son action éducative sur les trois principes fondamentaux de la liaison entre l'école et la vie : l'école vers la vie, l'école dans la vie, l'école pour la vie.
6.23 Il s'agit là des trois grandes étapes du processus révolutionnaire engagé dans tous les do- maines de l'enseignement et de l'éducation, plus particulièrement dans celui de l'éducation des jeunes producteurs et de leurs maîtres à qui il confère un sens aigu de leur utilité sociale et dans celui de la onal technique et économique de la production de tous les biens nécessaires au bonheur du peuple.
6.24 Pour permettre a notre jeunesse de participer pleinement à la vie nationale et de se préparer à ses responsabilités de demain, chaque école a été dotée d'un conseil d'administration qui, bien que présidé par le chef de l'établissement intéressé, se compose uniquement d'élèves ou d'étudiants élus. En liaison avec le corps enseignant, le conseil d'administration s'occupe de l'organisation et de l'application des programmes d'enseignement, des questions de discipline et de la gestion des biens matériels du Centre d'éducation révolutionnaire. L'expérience, de ce point de vue aussi, a été fort enrichissante.
6.25 Le problème de la recherche scientifique est un des aspects les plus importants de la révo- lution culturelle socialiste. La politique scientifique et technologique nationale, sous-tendue par les idéaux de la révolution culturelle socialiste, revêt elle aussi un caractère de masse. Alors que dans les pays élitistes, la recherche est le fait d'une minorité de spécialistes au service d'institutions ou d'entreprises privées, nous considérons en Guinée que la recherche scientifique et technologique ne Saurait se développer en s'isolant du peuple car pour nous, c'est le peuple qui crée la science et la technique. L'objectif de la recherche nationale est d'accroître le savoir et le savoir-faire populaires aux fins d'une promotion économique, sociale et culturelle efficace des masses laborieuses.
6.26 Le personnel scientifique et technique national englobe a la fois les guérisseurs, les conteurs, les chroniqueurs, les artisans et les ouvriers qualifiés, tous ceux qui ont bénéficié d'une formation scientifique et technique.
6.27 Monsieur le Président, la République de Guinée, dans sa volonté de démocratiser l'éducation, se penche particulièrement sur les masses laborieuses qui représentent la plus grande partie des producteurs afin de les soustraire à l'état d'obscurantisme où les avait confinées le système colonial.
6.28 Comme tout développement véritable n'est possible et mesurable que par la qualification pro- fessionnelle permanente des agents de développement, la formation et le perfectionnement font partie intégrante des objectifs prioritaires de la révolution guinéenne. C'est pourquoi des institutions spé- cialisées telles que l'Institut pédagogique national, le Service national de télé-enseignement, l'Aca- démie des langues, le Centre national de productivité s'occupent activement de la formation et du perfectionnement des producteurs de toutes spécialités travaillant dans les différents secteurs de la vie publique.
6.29 Le Service national d'alphabétisation, conscient du fait que l'ignorance est la plus grave des maladies, et que le savoir est le vrai fondement du pouvoir, se consacre depuis 1968 à la lutte à outrance contre l'analphabétisme, afin d'apprendre à lire et à écrire aux masses populaires dans leurs langues nationales et de les éduquer en leur donnant une formation professionnelle et socio- culturelle. Les efforts menés dans ce sens ont été couronnés en 1977 par le Prix Nadedja Kroupskaïa que l'Unesco a décerné au Centre de promotion féminine de Télimélé. Qu'il nous soit permis ici de remercier l'Unesco pour cette récompense qui a imprimé à l'action d'alphabétisation en Guinée un rythme nouveau et accéléré.
6.30 Monsieur le Président, compte tenu du progrès rapide et continu de la science, de la technique et de la technologie et des exigences nouvelles que requiert constamment le développement de notre peuple sur tous les plans, les données des nombreux problèmes abordés dans l'enseignement changent de manière très rapide.
6.31 Malgré un grand nombre de décisions hardies, dont celle de faire participer l'école à son propre, financement grâce aux ressources financières que lui procure la production des élèves, les coûts de l'investissement éducatif restent élevés et les moyens dont nous disposons pour appliquer nos orientations qui sont celles de l'Unesco demeurent cruellement insuffisants face aux objectifs que nous nous sommes fixés.
6.32 Etant donné que ces problèmes sont communs aux pays en développement, la République de Guinée souhaiterait que l'aide de l'Unesco s'oriente davantage vers : le développement général de l'infrastructure scolaire ; l'envoi d'équipements et de documentation techniques pour l'enseignement secondaire et supérieur et la formation technique et professionnelle ; la production de manuels et de matériels scolaires à l'usage des élèves et enseignants.
6.33 Monsieur le Président, la République de Guinée n'a jamais perdu de vue l'action inlassable de l'Unsco pour la paix, pour l'élimination définitive du colonialisme et du racisme et pour la sauvegarde des droits de l'homme. Le peuple guinéen, qui a prouvé le 28 septembre 1958 son attachement pro- fond aux droits de l'homme, ne saurait rester indifférent à ce problème qui est devenu ces derniers temps, à tort ou à raison, la préoccupation majeure de maintes organisations.
6.34 C'est précisément pour donner à cette notion de droits de l'homme une dimension plus uni- verselle que le Parti démocratique de Guinée fera de ce thème l'objet d'un débat lors du colloque idéologique international qu'il doit organiser à Conakry à la veille de son XIe Congrès. C'est pour- quoi nous serons ici volontairement brefs sur la question, non par manque d'intérêt, mais pour réserver au colloque la primeur de nos propos sur les droits de l'homme.
6.35 Monsieur le Président, il est évident que l'on ne saurait parler de paix réelle tant que des peuples gémiront sous la botte des racistes, tant que des peuples seront privés des droits les plus élémentaires, tant qu'on n'aura pas définitivement mis un terme à la course aux armements, tant que l'impérialisme ne cessera pas d'attiser les foyers de guerre qu'il a allumés, tant que le désarmement ne sera pas total et complet, tant que le nouvel ordre économique ne deviendra pas une réalité concrète.
6.36 A tous ces égards, ma délégation a hautement apprécié les efforts accomplis par l'Unesco dans des conditions parfois difficiles. Elle se réjouit spécialement de l'élaboration du Projet de déclaration sur la race et les préjugés raciaux qu'elle approuve. comme une nouvelle contribution positive de notre Organisation à l'élimination de l'apartheid et du colonialisme.
6.37 La circulation correcte de l'information étant indispensable à l'élévation du niveau d'analyse du monde et à la compréhension internationale, la délégation de la République de Guinée félicite l'Unesco pour sa lutte contre le monopole des moyens de communication par les pays détenteurs des grands réseaux d'information qui intoxiquent les nations du Tiers Monde et tentent de conditionner leurs populations vis-à-vis des problèmes vitaux de leur société.
6.38 Nous demandons cependant à l'Unesco de renforcer les efforts qu'elle a entrepris pour amé- liorer les moyens de communication des pays en développement afin que leurs systèmes de communi- cation soient plus efficaces.
6.39 Monsieur le Président, la délégation de la République de Guinée approuve le Projet de pro- gramme et de budget pour 1979-1980. Elle approuve également le document 20 C/4 et adresse ses vives félicitations au Directeur général de 1'Unesco et a l'ensemble du Secrétariat pour la clarté de la présentation, la perspicacité de l'analyse et le courage montré dans le diagnostic des difficultés et dans les propositions de solutions.
6.40 Quant au rapport d'activité présenté par le Directeur général à la vingtième session, la délé- gation guinéenne l'a écouté avec un vif intérêt, et elle félicite chaleureusement M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow pour le courage moral et politique et la franchise qui le caractérisent. Son intervention magis- trale n'est pas seulement un document de haute portée politique, c'est aussi et surtout un vaste programme d'actions hardies et d'initiatives heureuses qui sont à l'honneur de notre Organisation.
6.41 Pour terminer, la délégation du Parti-Etat de Guinée souhaite à M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, directeur général de l'Unesco, ainsi qu'au Conseil exécutif, des succès encore plus éclatants dans la noble tâche qui consiste à renforcer et à développer une coopération internationale franche et loyale dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science, de la culture et de la communication. Je vous remercie.
7. Le PRESIDENT .- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Guinée et je donne la parole à M. Vladilem Prokudin, chef du département de la coopération scientifique et technique du Conseil d'assistance économique mutuelle.
(8.1) Мг. PROKUDIN (Council for Mutual Economic Assistance) (Translation from the Russian): Mr. President, allow me to congratulate you on your election to your high office and to thank you for the opportunity given to our Organization to address this distinguished gathering. I should like, with your permission, to say a few words about the scientific and technological co-operation taking place in the frame- work of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance on problems directly related to Unesco's activities.
(8.2) Co-operation among Member States of CMEA in the field of science and technology is increasingly becoming one of the decisive factors in promoting the scientific and technological progress of the countries of the socialist commonwealth, the economic growth and material well-being of the peoples. Such co-operation is also leading to the broadening and strengthening of our resources in the field of scientific manpower and equipment. At the present time, there are over one-and-a-half million scientific and technical workers and teachers in institutions of higher education in CMEA Member States. Today there are around 3,000 scientific research and R&D organizations involved in diverse areas of co-operation in science and technology, and during the past few years over 10,000 scientific research and applied projects have been completed through joint efforts. The broad application of effective forms of co-operation has played a significant role in the achievement of such results. Member States of CMEA have concluded over 100 multilateral agreements on matters of science and technology. In connection with these agreements, more than 50 scientific and research organizations of CMEA Member States have taken on the role of co-ordinators. These organizations are, in fact, programming centres of CMEA Member States in selected fields of science and technology. With the development of ever-increasing ties in the domain of science and technology, the working out of a long-term strategy of co-operation with emphasis on the resolution of major joint problems of material production ’ assumes more and more importance.
(8. 3) A major step forward in the development of the socialist economic integration of CMEA Member States is the elaboration, in conformity with decisions taken by the socialist, community and worker's parties of these States, of specific long-term programmes of co-operation in the fields of energetics, fuels, raw materials, agriculture, the food industry, light industry, machinery construction, and transportation. The long-term strategy of scientific and technological co-operation is indeed primarily directed towards the solution of such economic tasks.
(8.4) A new element in co-operation among CMEA Member States is the development of comprehensive inter-branch scientific and technological programmes such as, for example, the programme in environmental protection or the programme for solving scientific and technological problems in the field of energetics. Over 500 organizations are collaborating in the field of environmental protection. On fundamental problems of. environmental protection, we are working closely with the Unesco National Committees of CMEA Member States on the themes of Unesco's programme on Man and the Biosphere.
(8.5) In the course of co-operative efforts in science and technology, a considerable amount of fundamental research has been done in such fields as solid state physics, astrophysics, molecular biology, genetics, oncology, the study of the world's oceans, and in other areas.
(8.6) CMEA Member States are making increasing use in their economies of the results of combined space research studies. Within the framework of the "Intercosmos" Programme, 16 artificial earth satellites,
2 geophysical rockets and 15 meteorological rockets have been launched; joint space ventures are being undertaken, citizens of CMEA Member States are taking part in Soviet space flights. There is increasing co-operation among CMEA Member States in the training and advanced training of scientific manpower. Over the past six years, more than 3,000 post-graduates have undergone training as exchange students and over 9,000 specialists have gone through special training courses; a considerable number of summer and winter study programmes have been organized for young specialists on the most urgent of the problems of science and technology which are within the subject of co-operation. CMEA Member States ее laid the groundwork for a system of scientific and technological information. Nineteen international branch--oriented subsystems and six specialized information subsystems and services have gone into operation.
(8.7) The links between the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance and Unesco are growing stronger from 11 year to year. We are in contact with each other on such urgent scientific and technological problems as the protection of the environment and the biosphere, the use of natural resources, including the resources of the world's oceans, the transfer of technology and the application of science in the interests of development, the development of a system of comparable indicators in connection with questions of information and improving the professional qualifications of scientific manpower. Such contacts are favoured by regular meetings and conferences of Unesco, CMEA, the Economic Commission for Europe, and other international organizations of the European Region, which pave the way for and chart the direction of future contacts and decide on other potential forms of co-operation.
(8.8) Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the high esteem I have for the humanistic activity of Unesco, allow me to express the conviction that the present session of the General Conference will come forward with concrete recommendations for the further development of co-operation among countries on the basis of equality and mutual benefit and will, thereby, contribute to furthering and broadening the base of the policy of peaceful co-existence and the relaxation of international tensions. Thank you.
9. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le représentant du Conseil d'assistance économique mutuelle et je donne la parole a S. Exc. le Dr P.C. Chunder, ministre de l'éducation et de la protection sociale et chef de la délé- gation de l'Inde.
10.1 Mr. CHUNDER (India): Mr. President, I join my distinguished colleagues in warmly congratulating you on your election to the presidency of this Conference. We are confident that under your able and wise guidance, it will prove successful in its deliberations and mark an eventful turn in the functioning of Unesco. We also congratulate and welcome the other office-bearers, and would like on this occasion to say how deeply we have admired and appreciated the sagacious leadership of the outgoing President. We join our colleagues in welcoming most heartily the delegates of the new Member States - Angola, Cape Verde, Comoros and Swaziland. Their presence among us gives us further assurance of the ultimate success of the efforts of Unesco to evolve a peaceful universal, international community. We also hope that Dominica and Namibia will soon join us.
10.2 Mr. President, the world community has been recently much concerned about the need to establish a new international economic order. This expression signifies a new structure of relation- ships and an approach to international exchanges based on equality, mutual benefit, justice and a greater awareness of the need to ameliorate the conditions of millions of people who suffer from want and privation. The concept has now been set in the wider of perspective man's cultural and social requirements, and it is indeed a new international human order that we should all be striving to establish. Unesco has done valuable work in this connection, through its programmes of reflection, analysis and research, and has taken positive action for the promotion of the new order. We are pleased to see that this will be one of the items on the agenda of the General Conference, and we trust that it will receive the most serious attention.
10.3 Mr. President, despite the considerable progress achieved in the struggle against colonialism and racism, the pernicious doctrines of racial discrimination still hold sway in some parts of the world. We in India are happy to see that Unesco is playing its proper role in the fight against racism and apartheid. The Draft Declaration on this subject marks an important stage in the rally- ing of forces in this struggle and it is our hope that, with appropriate amendments where necessary, its text will be unanimously adopted by this General Conference.
10.4 We would like the Conference to extend the activities of Unesco to the people of Namibia, who are heroically struggling against alien oppression; the Government and people of India regard this struggle as an indication that Namibia will very soon attain genuine national independence.
10.5 Mr. President, a primary task of Unesco is to prepare the mental climate for transition to total disarmament and the creation of an atmosphere in which all men and women may enjoy the full amplitude of human rights. We are happy to see that the programme for the next biennium places considerable stress on the furtherance of peace.
10.6 The role of communication in development has been well appreciated by Unesco. Only through an effective communication policy can Unesco realize its ideal of the wide diffusion of education and culture for justice, liberty and peace. India has always been a champion of international equality and understanding, and welcomes the Director-General's efforts to set before this Conference a Draft Declaration on the contribution of mass media to the promotion of greater understanding among nations. The press in our country is now free and fearless, while our radio and television are on the point of acquiring substantial autonomy. We have undertaken many experiments and projects to involve mass media in national development. Our broad support for the idea of a new information order arises out of our belief in the importance of information for public participation and decision- making and the resolution of tensions.
10.7 Mr. President, the democratization of education and the improvement of its quality have been the two main directions of Unesco's activities. With lifelong learning as the ultimate objective, Unesco is encouraging its members to extend education to the entire population - children and adults alike - through formal and non-formal systems. At the same time, the Organization is also concerned with the quality of education. Education policies, it has recognized, must be closely linked with the culture of the people, and must become a part of the socio-economic development of the country. Education must at all times be relevant and functional. These ideals have permeated to many coun- tries in the world, and all the Member States assembled here are, in one way or another, striving to
485   reach these goals. In consonance with the policies of Unesco, we in India have given the highest priority to the universalization of literacy and to the reform of educational content. A few weeks ago, we launched a massive National Adult Education Programme destined to reach about 100 million adults during the next five years. We have also drawn up programmes of formal and non-formal education for universalizing elementary education for children aged from 6 to 14 in the next ten years; these programmes will be extended to 45 million children, in addition to the 90 million who are already enrolled in schools.
10.8 At the same time, we are revising the contents of education. Education at all stages must be based upon the best in our tradition and culture and must remain relevant and functional. The concept of socially useful productive work, mainly influenced by the educational philosophy of Mahatma Gandhi, will from now on be an integral part of our formal system of school education, the objectives of which are development of the total personality of the individual, the promotion of social and moral values, and the inculcation of attitudes and skills essential to a democratic, secular and socialist society. In the words of our great poet, Rabindranath Tagore, "That education is true, which acknowledges the mind to be a living thing and, therefore, stimulates it to give out more in quality and quantity than is imparted to it from outside". This is the standard that we have set for ourselves.
10.9 Mr. President, the increasing importance attached by Unesco to the development of culture is fully justified. The educational system of each country must draw upon its rich cultural heritage, and the cultural identity of the people must be recognized and respected. The best of the values and traditions which remain alive in the popular culture must be woven into the educational system. Unesco's efforts to identify and strengthen institutions of culture, both traditional and contemporary, and to preserve and document the cultural heritage deserve full support. We in India recognize with pride the rich cultural diversity among our people, and it will be our endeavour to preserve this diversity while acknowledging the basic unity which holds them together.
10.10 Mr. President, it is to Unesco's credit that it has attempted to humanize science and harness it to the service of man. Thanks to Unesco, science has become an integral part of school education. Unesco's efforts are rightly tuned to the problem of transfer of technology and the development of appropriate and alternate technologies. In India, our objective is the promotion of self-reliance and endogenous development. Science must provide a new philosophy of action to enable man to rise to his full stature. We in India are in agreement with the broad policies of Unesco, and are involved in the programmes which the Organization has initiated. We have a science and technology policy which seeks to promote pure and applied sciences and to secure for the people, especially in rural areas, the benefits accruing from the acquisition and application of scientific knowledge, with the aim of removing unemployment, satisfying basic needs and enhancing the quality of life, and enabling the people to realize their full human potential. 3
10.11 As far as Unesco's programmes are concerned, the allocation of resources may require a second look. It may be worthwhile to reduce administrative and overhead costs to a minimum and to divert the savings thus realized to valuable educational and scientific programmes. It may also be possible gradually to step up the allocations for the various sectors of programmes, through economies elsewhere in the budget. Some simplification of formalities and procedures may lead to savings in time and expense.
10.12 We are pleased to note the continuing efforts made by Unesco to decentralize its work. The regional and subregional conferences of National Commissions have highlighted the need for such decentralization and the importance of building up regional and national competence. Decentralization will not merely reduce costs; it will also make for greater efficiency and self-reliance on the part of nations and regions. We must also mention here the excellent work done by the Regional Offices in our region in India and Bangkok, which deserve greater encouragement and development. We hope to see more definite and purposeful action in this direction by the Director-General and the Executive Board.
10.13 Mr. President, we are glad to note the emphasis laid on programmes: of endogenous development and on the strengthening of national and local infrastructures. We believe that these efforts should be further strengthened and vigorously pursued. A major objective of Unesco might be to develop, on a planned basis, national competence in various programme areas.
10.14 We greatly appreciate and admire the efforts of the Director-General and his colleagues to infuse a spirit of dedication and earnestness into the functioning of Unesco. The nineteenth session of theGeneral Conference marked a definite change in approach, with the presentation of the Medium- Term Plan - an excellent document - which attempts ta transpose the ideals of Unesco into a concrete programme of action over a period which permits effective planning. The present Draft Programme and Budget for 1979-1980 (20 C/5) is definitely an improvement on the earlier documents, and presents the entire programme of operations in a very lucid manner. The Director-General, the Executive Board and the Secretariat deserve our warmest appreciation, and our full support for their continuous endeavour to translate the ideals of Unesco into concrete programmes of action.
10.15 Mr. President, as we look back, the achievements of Unesco are indeed substantial, but when we look ahead, its tasks appear to be hard and the outlook difficult. It is perhaps to Unesco, more than any other United Nations organization, that the nations can now turn for succour, relief, guidance and counsel. In a sense, Unesco is the brains-trust of the world. I can do no better than quote from the Medium-Term Plan: "Unesco with its general responsibility for the promotion of spiritual values is also empowered to act as a centre for humanistic and ethical reflection and to go beyond merely technical consideration viewing the problems of development in terms of human significance".
10.16 The Constitution of Unesco observes that lasting peace cannot be "based exclusively upon the political and economic arrangements of governments", but "must be founded ... upon the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind". The forces of war and intimidation are still at work. We still witness painful and blatant manifestations of racial discrimination and apartheid. Our rejection of the doctrine of inequality of men and races, castes, colours and creeds has not yet become a reality. Economic disparities and the exploitation and covert domination of weaker countries by the economically more advanced countries still remain facts of life. The present state of education often fails to check these menaces. Science often becomes a handmaiden of destructive forces. Culture often fails to provide the aesthetic pleasure which ennobles the mind. The time has obviously come for us to take stock of the position, and to look for new directions; and it is in this light that we must examine the adequacy and the purpose of Unesco's present programmes. We have long felt that mere material advancement or the philosophy of "consumerism" may prove inadequate in dealing with human problems. Evidence of this may be seen in many prosperous societies. Increasingly, many people in these societies are rejecting values which are founded on material growth, and turning towards intellectual and moral values. It is obvious that a society which is exclusively concerned with its own physical well-being, and which is always looking outward to see how to promote its material standards alone, may not be able to attain the enlightenment required to lead a peaceful and non-aggressive life. A society which looks inwards, which analyses its own inadequacies and incompetence, and which seeks to mould its character and outlook in the interests of self-control, self-reliance, goodwill and austerity, may be better equipped to deal with the problems of modern times. Indian philosophy has always held that the essential problems of man do not lie in his surroundings but in himself. Beyond a certain point of need, he who is content does not seek to pursue material comforts or goods. Nor does he find it necessary to force himself on others with a view to influencing their decision or response.
10.17 These considerations do not, however, reflect a negative attitude of mind, but rather constitute a call for positive action without the imposition of oneself on others. It is wrong to believe that Indian wise men of ancient times invariably encouraged renunciation of the world. On the contrary, many of these influential philosophers favoured an integrated, balanced way of life, and urged that each of the three main objectives of life - Dharma (moral), Artha (material) and Kama (sensual), be pursued in consonance with the others. The great Indian epic, the Mahabharata, even holds that "moral, material and sensual objectives are to be pursued with equal emphasis. A person who is addicted to one objective only is despicable”. Kautilya, the well-known political author of ancient India, echoed the same attitude, when he stated that "three objectives are to be pursued equally or in consonance with one another ... If any one of them is pursued excessively, it harms not only itself, but also the other two".
10.18 In substance, ancient Indian sages have advised us to temper material and sensual pursuites With morality; without due recourse to moral values, material and sensual activities will be self-defeating.
10.19 Mr. President, all major religions have stressed the need for discipline, self-control and other moral virtues. I believe that the time has come for ourselves in Unesco to examine the extent to which our objectives in education and culture promote moral excellence based upon truth, discipline, self-control and love of mankind. Remarkable as they are, our achievements in the democratization of education, the diffusion of culture, the exchange of ideas and knowledge, and in harnessing all the forces of science in the service of humanity, have been overshadowed, it appears to me, by our general failure to develop intellectual and moral standards; it is perhaps to the promotion of strong intellectual and moral solidarity that we should now turn our attention.
10.20 This is what Mahatma Gandhi in our country characterized as the search for truth and fearlessless. While we have correctly held that the educational system in each country should be relevant to its needs, and should also be attuned to its material development, there are certain values, common to mankind as a whole, which must be recognized, incorporated and highlighted in all systems of education throughout the world. These may ultimately contribute to the development of a society which will be free from strife and competition, and which will believe in peaceful coexistence. And Unesco is the only organization which can contribute to the promotion of these values.
10.21 Mr. President, a modern Bengali poet, Satyen Datta, exclaimed: "There is only one race covering the world. The name of that race is Man. Nurtured on the breast of the same Mother Earth. The same sun and the moon are our companions." Let us, therefore, join together to forge the unity of the human race and to uphold the dignity of Man. Thank you, Mr. President.
11. Le PRESIDENT.- de remercie le chef de la délégation de l'Inde et je donne la parole à M. le professeur Igor Nikolaevitch Zemskov, président de la Commission nationale pour l'Unesco, vice-ministre des affaires étrangères et chef de la délégation de l'Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques.
(12.1) Мг. ZEMSKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian): Mr. President, distinguished delegates, I should like, first of all, to congratulate the highly esteemed Mr. LeBlanc on his election to the presidency of our Conference and to wish him every success in his high office.
(12.2) The General Conference of Unesco, which is meeting for the twentieth time, is the most representative forum of our Organization, embracing the delegates of all Member States, of which there are by now no fewer than 144. With each succeeding session we have together witnessed the expansion of Unesco's activities and of the list of topics included on its agenda. And this is quite as it should be. It is essential that Unesco's broad .spectrum of activities should give expression to the important processes that are taking place in the world and which are constantly confronting mankind with new problems requiring urgent solutions.
(12.3) No matter how divergent one's views are about the various factors of international life, there is no escaping the simple truth that we are all living on the same planet, that we are breathing the same air, that we are concerned about our own future and that of coming generations. Accordingly, distinguished delegates, the cardinal problem of our time is that of halting the arms race and effecting the transition to disarmament. That is the concern of each and everyone of us today. There is an ever-growing awareness among people that the arms race has reached a point which world public opinion regards - and justifiably so - as critical. The escalation of armaments, the creation of new and lethal weapons of mass destruction, such as the neutron bomb, augment the danger of a new world war, impede the growth of living standards and delay the tackling of urgent tasks in many fields including those of education, science and culture. And yet every sensible person realizes that this process can and must be stopped. It is in this direction that the Soviet Union is exerting its efforts. As was stressed by L.I. Brezhnev, General Secretary of the CC of the CPSU and Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR, "there is no type of arms - and first and foremost weapons of mass destruction - that the Soviet Union would not be ready to limit or ban, on the basis of reciprocal agreements with other governments, and then remove them from the arsenals". The difficulties on the road to disarmament, sabotage on the part of its adversaries, are not going to paralyse the efforts of the peace-loving forces or lessen their faith in the ultimate triumph of reason. We will carry the fight further, with greater resolve - this is the motto of those who are convinced that mankind will eventually win the struggle for disarmament. And our Organization, with its great authority and experience and its wide and diversified range of activities, can play an influential role in solving this, the most important problem of our age.
(12.4) Here it is appropriate to recall that the Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly devoted to Disarmament addressed a number of specific recommendations to Unesco. In particular, it called on Unesco to intensify its activities in the field of research and publications and in the preparation of curricula on disarmament problems, welcomed its initiative in planning to hold a world conference on disarma- ment education, etc. The United Nations General Assembly thereby confirmed the importance of Unesco's contribution towards solving one of the most urgent problems of the present day and recognized its specific competence in this sphere. The address by our distinguished Director-General, Mr. M'Bow, to that session of the United Nations General Assembly, at which he reaffirmed Unesco's commitment to the ideals of peace, made a deep impression. He said, it will be recalled, that "during the 32 years of its existence, Unesco has endeavoured, in the spheres of its competence and in its own way ... to work for the strengthening of peace. It is convinced that without peace and the relaxation of tensions the resolution of the problems confronting mankind would be seriously ... jeopardized". Mr. M'Bow likewise stressed that Unesco would continue to devote serious and sympathetic concern to this problem.
(12.5) The draft resolution on the role of Unesco in generating a climate of public opinion conducive to the halting of the arms race submitted by the Soviet Union at this session of the General Conference is intended to develop further the corresponding resolution adopted at the last session but the main thing is that it responds to the heartfelt aspirations of mankind.
(12.6) As part and parcel of the struggle for peace, disarmament and détente, we are also examining the role Unesco can play in the elimination of colonialism and racialism, in restructuring international relations on the basis of justice and in promoting the social and cultural development of peoples. It should not be forgotten for one moment that the hundreds of billions of dollars spent annually on the manufacture or improvement of weapons are in stark and sombre contrast to the want and poverty in which two-thirds of the world's population are still living today. This too is specifically mentioned in the Declaration of the Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly devoted to Disarmament, which notes that "the economic and social consequences’ of the arms race are so detrimental that its continuation is obviously incompatible with the implementation of thenew international economic order based on justice, equity and co-operation. Consequently, resources released as a result of the implementation of disarmament measures should be used in a manner which will help promote the well-being of all peoples...".
(12.7) The Soviet Union fully shares that point of view, as evidenced by the proposals it has made for the reduction of military budgets, especially the military budgets of States having a large economic and military potential, and for using part of the resources thus saved for aid to the developing countries. The halting of the arms race and the transition to real disarmament can contribute, it is our deep conviction, to solving such a major problem as the reshaping of international economic relations on a basis of justice and equity, a goal which the Soviet Union has steadfastly advocated.
(12.8) The problems of peace and of the social and economic, scientific and technological and cultural development of peoples are closely interrelated and it is essential for our Organization to examine them in the light of that interrelationship. Unesco has made a considerable effort to find ways of determining its role in the discussion and solution of the aforementioned problems. It is a complex and multifaceted task.
(12.9) The activities planned along these lines for the forthcoming biennium warrant support, but we feel that they should be more sharply defined and more closely co-ordinated with the work of all divisions and sectors of Unesco and with the measures aimed at intensifying Unesco's contribution to strengthening peace and international security, to combating colonialism and racialism and to broadening mutually beneficial co-operation in all fields of Unesco's competence.
(12.10) This is likewise the purpose of the draft resolution submitted by the USSR on Unesco's contribution to peace and its tasks with respect to the promotion of human rights and the elimination of colonialism and racialism. The delegation of the Soviet Union is convinced that this draft will meet with sympathy and support on the part of distinguished delegates inasmuch as the overwhelming majority of them undoubtedly share our view that the Organization should make an even more intensive contribution to the reinforcement of peace and to the elimination of such massive and flagrant violations of human rights as colonialism, fascism, apartheid, and all forms and manifestations of racialism. The adoption of that resolution would also conduce to the elaboration of a more clear-cut, genuinely comprehensive programme of Unesco activity in the aforementioned fields and would strengthen individual projects and parts of the Organization's programme for 1979-1980.
(12.11) Another item on the agenda of our session is worthy of special mention. When reference is made to events especially endangering the fate of mankind, the heroic struggle of the African peoples against apartheid and racialism - the disgrace of our century - always comes to mind. It may be appropriately recalled that the World Conference to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination, which was held recently in Geneva, described racism, racial discrimination and apartheid as crimes against the conscience and dignity of mankind, the source of mankind's afflictions, as a danger to peace, and as a serious violation of human rights. It laid particular emphasis on the fact that racialism carries with it a permanent danger of new complications and military conflicts.
(12.12) It is widely known that for many years Unesco has resolutely opposed racialism, racial discrimination and apartheid. The Draft Declaration on Race and Racial Prejudice, submitted for the consideration of the Conference is eloquent testimony to that fact. The USSR delegation considers that the adoption of that Declaration at the current session will be a worthy contribution by Unesco to International Anti;Apartheid Year and to the commemoration of the Thirtieth Anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
(12.13) Mr. President, when examining Unesco's programme for the years ahead, one is struck by the increasing scope of its activities in the various regions of our planet. We welcome the fact that the Draft Programme contains concrete plans for the further development of European co-operation. This represents a distinct contribution by Unesco to the implementation of the Final Act of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe. It should not be forgotten that, as A.A. Gromyko, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the USSR and member of the Politburo of the CPSU, recently declared at the United Nations, "it is the European continent which has made the greatest strides towards building a durable peace", that it is in Europe that the most impressive results have been achieved, that a distinctly healthier political climate prevails here than ever before, and that "the dominant trend in European international life has been and continues to be détente". The European continent is also the area in which the greatest progress has been made in the development of mutually beneficial co-operation among States with different social structures in the fields of trade and economics, science and technology and culture, including all Unesco's spheres of competence. Unesco's contribution to the furtherance and stimulation of European co-operation and the discovery of new forms and methods for such co-operation will help to strengthen the process of détente on the European continent and, as a result, will have a favourable impact on other regions of the world as well.
(12.14) It is also gratifying to note that Unesco is likewise devoting considerable attention to its regional activities in the countries of Asia. The conferences, meetings and other activities it has organized in that region are helping to cement relations and promote co-operation and mutual understanding among the peoples of Asia. Despite some alarming signs of a gathering storm on the continent seriously endangering its stability, it is to be hoped that things will change for the better. In this regard, the consistent struggle of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam for peace, equality and co-operation among States is a gratifying example as it steadfastly pursues its peace-loving foreign policy, rebuffing encroachments on its sovereignty. More and more States in Asia are becoming aware of the fact that co-operation and social, economic and cultural progress are only possible for the peoples of this most densely populated continent of the globe in conditions of peace and security.
(12.15) An important factor in the establishment of a just and lasting peace, national independence and international co-operation on a basis of equality is the resolute struggle of the peoples of the African and Arab countries in defence of their national rights, economic independence and sovereignty.
(12.16) It is, therefore, quite logical that Unesco should be increasingly active in providing assistance to national liberation movements recognized by the OAU, thereby making its own tangible contribution to the struggle for social progress and peace. And the efforts of our Organization in this direction should be intensified, and the forms it takes enriched and diversified.
(12.17) No discussion about the urgent need for strengthening peace would be complete without saying something about the crisis in the Middle East. The situation in that region continues to be confused and a potential source of danger not only to the countries of that area but to the international community as a whole. Naturally this situation is of the utmost concern to our Organization, which year after year discusses but cannot succeed in solving the thorny problem of the situation of the population in Israeli-occupied Arab territories. The agenda of the current session once again includes an item concerning educational and cultural institutions in the occupied Arab territories. However, it is clear to everyone that the solution of this question depends on the just and peaceful settlement of the explosive problem of the Middle East in its entirety. Long experience - and particularly the experience of recent months - shows that separate machina- tions at the expense of the Arabs and behind their backs have only side-tracked and will continue to side- track efforts to solve the problem. The deal at Camp David is convincing evidence of that fact. There is only one way to solve the Middle East conflict and that is the complete liberation of all Arab lands occupied by Israel in 1967, full and unequivocal respect for the legal rights of the Arab people of Palestine, including
494    the right to establish their own independent State, and the provision of reliable guarantees for the security of all countries of the region (including, of course, Israel). Only an overall settlement can lay the founda- tions for lasting peace in that region and thereby provide a basis for the resolution of those problems which fall within Unesco's competence.
(12.18) Mr. President, I should like to draw the attention of distinguished delegates to one thought. Whenever and wherever there are violations of standards of human intercourse and international law - whether it be racism or colonialism, aggression or militarism - they always result in the erosion of human and individual rights. In contrast, the ensuring of true democracy and respect for fundamental human rights implies an active struggle for peace and the social and national liberation of peoples. V.I. Lenin said that it is in the approach to the problem of war and peace that democracy has its highest manifestation. This view is echoed in a document of a recent United Nations conference which notes that peace is a vital condition for the full enjoyment of human rights whereas war is the denial of those rights. And indeed, can there be any compatibility between sermonizing on the theme of democracy, delivering lectures on morality to other nations, and stepping up the arms race and sowing the seeds of world war in which millions and millions of people may perish - along, so to speak, with their rights? Moreover, all expatiations on democracy sound very hollow, to put it mildly, when they come from people who, in their own countries, are flouting the elementary rights of millions of their coloured citizens, and, abroad, are giving support to the most reactionary racialist regimes and fascist juntas, like those in power today in Chile or Nicaragua. Such massive violations of human rights and freedoms must be relentlessly combated by the world community and its international organizations, including Unesco.
(12.19) Not a day passes without news of some new violation -of human rights - fundamental human rights such as the right to peace, to life, to work, to education - in precisely those countries which vociferate about the alleged violations of human rights in the socialist countries. But there is no such thing as unemployment in the world of socialism, which was the first to guarantee to individuals the right to work, to free education and health care, to housing. Slums, growing criminality, spiritual bankruptcy, disregard for ethical standards are all alien to the socialist way of life. And that's not propaganda, those are facts, and you can't get away from facts.
(12.20) The new Soviet Constitution adopted a year ago - 140 million Soviet citizens took part in the discussions on the draft document - has become yet one more tangible contribution towards the fulfilment of human rights and freedoms.
(12.21) I would like to cite one example directly related to Unesco's sphere of activities. Article 45 of the Constitution of the USSR affirms: "Citizens of the USSR have the right to education. This right is ensured by free provision of all forms of education, by the institution of universal, compulsory secondary (i.e. of ten-year duration) education, and broad development of vocational, specialized secondary and higher educa- tion..., by the provision of State scholarships and grants and privileges for students, by the free issue of school textbooks, by the opportunity to attend a school where teaching is in the native language...". Article 46 affirms the right of citizens of the USSR to enjoy cultural benefits, a right ensured, inter alia by broad access to the cultural treasures of their own land and of the world and by expanding cultural ex- changes with other countries. The experience in the construction of a socialist democracy embodied in the new Constitution of the USSR and the manner in which the enjoyment of the rights proclaimed in that Consti- tution is assured in practice are bound to be of considerable scientific, theoretical and practical interest to Unesco whose vocation it is to acquaint Member States with the experience of different countries.
(12.22) Mr. President, perhaps I may be allowed to dwell for a moment on the problem of the mass media, a problem which, as! many of us will recall, was hotly debated in Nairobi. The role and the growing importance of information in the life of society are evident to all. And it is no accident that Mr. M'Bow, Director-General ‘of Unesco, took the initiative in setting up the International Commission for the Study of Communication Problems, headed by Mr. MacBride. We are prepared to offer more detailed comments on the Commission's report in due course, but I should like to make my main point now. To be quite candid, we do not regard the draft declaration on mass media as absolutely ideal. However, we consider that the draft now before us is a reasonable compromise between the diverse points of view and that its adoption will be a step in the right direction. We should also like to emphasize that, in our opinion, the essential task is to harness the enormous potential of the mass media to the service of peace, mutual understanding and national independence and to prevent it from being used to stir up antagonism, to aggravate tension and even to promote “psychological warfare". The problem is inherent in the very nature and practice of international relations. At the European Conference in Helsinki, L.I. Brezhnev remarked: "It is no secret that the mass media can serve the interests of peace and trust just as they can spread throughout the world the poison of discord among peoples and nations".
(12.23) In our opinion, the adoption of the Unesco Declaration on the Fundamental Principles Governing the Use of the Mass Media in Strengthening Peace and International Understanding and in Combating War Propaganda, Racialism and Apartheid would play a positive role in this serious and crucial undertaking, in the mobilization of the press, radio and television to improve the international climate and promote mutual understanding among peoples; it would help to protect the countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America from what is aptly called "informational imperialism". The Soviet Union steadfastly supports, both by word and deed, the efforts of the developing countries aimed at the "decolonization of information"; it supports the anti-imperialist orientation of the non-aligned movement's information pool. We are ready to join with them in seeking adoption at the current session of a Declaration on the Mass Media which takes into account their legitimate interests. In his report, the Director-General correctly and cogently demonstrated the importance of adopting such a Declaration at the present session.
(12.24) During the past few weeks Unesco has been the target of unseemly and unjustified attacks by some of the so-called major press organs of the West. They distort the sense of the draft Declaration on the Mass Media and even presume to threaten our Organization. Assertions to the effect that the Declaration seeks to establish State control over the mass media, censorship, etc., are utterly groundless; such words are quite simply not to be found in the text of the document.
(12.25) We were curious to learn who was responsible for the often unseemly attacks made on the draft Declaration. And it turned out, on closer scrutiny, that it was precisely the representatives and the press of those countries in which propaganda in favour of war and the arms race, violence, racism, pornography or of all of these things together exists, or rather flourishes. And when I became more thoroughly acquainted with such materials, I was taken aback by one figure I came across. According to official American sources, in one of the leading capitalist countries around 300 pornographic magazines are
495    published and hundreds of pornographic films are produced using the services of minors. According to the same sources, around 300,000 youngsters under the age of 12 are involved in the pornographic industry. Is this what you call freedom of information? Human rights? Instead of inveighing against the proposed draft Declaration, the press organs in question would do far better to defend the rights of those miserable children who, as the same statistics show, die before the age of 20. I don't know how you feel, but we are against such freedom - for "freedom" is what these representatives and their press claim to be defending. Freedom to do what? To commit outrages upon people?
(12.26) There is of course no doubt that the mass media have an enormous influence on the life of society. They bear a great responsibility. It is precisely from this standpoint that Unesco should, in our opinion, tackle information problems, ascribing paramount importance to the content of information. And these are the considerations that should determine the General Conference's attitude toward the Declaration on the Mass Media.
(12.27) Mr. President, cultural and scientific co-operation on a basis of equality and mutual advantage is an important factor in strengthening peace, friendship and understanding among peoples and is therefore destined to play a very constructive role in international life today. The delegation of the USSR has submitted a special resolution on this question which will, we hope, meet with the support of those who sincerely want Unesco to tackle the tasks before it responsibly and to perform them as successfully as possible. In the years since Unesco came into existence, it has set an example of fruitful co-operation in the field of science.
(12.28) The delegation of the USSR resolutely supports the Director-General's efforts to promote the development and implementation of Unesco's major intergovernmental programmes in the sciences: global ocean investigations, Man and his Environment, UNISIST, the International Hydrological Programme, and the International Geological Correlation Programme - programmes which are all graphic examples of world-wide international co-operation. They are producing impressive results and are contributing to the general welfare of all mankind.
(12.29) It would likewise be worth while, we feel, to explore the possibility of setting up a new Intergovernmental Energy Programme. The importance of such a programme for all countries and regions is surely obvious, given the urgent tasks confronting mankind as a result of the energy problem. In making this proposal, we are proceeding from the assumption that the necessary financing for the projects at the preparatory stage of the programme could be found in the approved budget.
(12.30) Our country continues to feel that a more rational and more appropriate use of budgetary resources and a regular review of the less effective and less important programmes - and in some cases their discontinuation - and the dropping of minor projects would make it possible not only to avoid an intolerable increase in the budget but even, by degrees, to stabilize it. It is no secret that, in recent times, the Unesco budget has risen at a considerably faster rate than the national income of Unesco Member States, a situation which can only be viewed with concern. We regard the intemperate, chronic increase in the Organization's budget as absolutely unacceptable, the more so as the increase is not justified by programme requirements: of the 28 per cent increase in-the budget, only 7 per cent is allocated to programme operations. We again urge that immediate efforts be made to find a solution which will assure that the growth of the budget remains within reasonable limits and eventually lead to its stabilization.
(12.31) The long and rich experience of our Organization, its universal character, and the authority which it deservedly enjoys in the eyes of the international community give us reason to hope that it will be able to cope with the urgent tasks confronting it.
(12.32) Mr. President, the Soviet Union, which next year commemorates the 25th anniversary of its association with Unesco, will continue to contribute actively towards the realization of the Organization's plans and undertakings dedicated to the strengthening of peace and international security, the achievement of disarmament, the elimination of colonialism and racialism and the promotion of social progress. The entire policy of the Soviet Union is permeated by the ideas of peace and its consolidation, it seeks to promote good-neighbourly relations based on the principle of peaceful coexistence and to find new ways of strengthening the policy of détente, which is the cornerstone of peace for future generations of mankind. Our Leninist policy of peace is based on lofty principles, it is honest and straightforward. This has been and will continue to be our policy notwithstanding the aspersions cast on it by our adversaries.
(12.33) We consider that Unesco will be doing its duty if it earnestly focuses its efforts on those questions directly linked to the primary task facing the world community today - supporting international peace and security by all the manifold means at its disposal, by its authority and by the crucial decisions to be taken at the current session of the General Conference.
(12.34) In the execution of the above task, Unesco can count on the wholehearted support of our country. I should like to conclude my remarks with these words of L.I. Brezhnev: "The Soviet Union is moving confidently along the road of peace. We are resolutely dedicated to the principle that the controversy between socialism and capitalism will be decided neither on the battlefield nor on the assembly lines of armaments factories but in the realm of peaceful endeavour. May broad lines of fruitful co-operation - and not rockets with nuclear warheads - cross frontiers, enhancing the well-being of mankind. In the consistent pursuit of that policy we are giving reality to one of the clarion calls of October, the Leninist precept of "péace to the peoples!". Thank you for your attention.
13. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de 1'Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques et je donne la parole á The Rt. Hon. Mrs Judith Hart, ministre du développement des pays d'outre-mer et chef de la délégation du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord.
14.1 Mrs. HART (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Mr. President, I begin with warm congratulations to you on your election. I am sure that you will guide us to success. I congratulate, also, the Director-General on his current Programme and Budget. I hope that any of my new proposals adopted will be fully consonant with the criteria of the Medium-Term Plan, which provides the context for our present programme. I hope, too, that we shall begin on our long-term work for the next Plan. It is not too soon for that.
14.2 Our priorities must be those which will assist development strategies designed to meet the needs of the poorest people. Educational development, science and technology: these must be at the centre of our planning.
14.3 We should be ready to look at Unesco's own methods of working. Do we need to do more in the field and less in Paris and other capitals? Do we need to be more practical and a little less theoretical? Does the way we organize our two-yearly Conference really meet our needs? We all try to take a broad view of policies, but the experts in our delegations are often frustrated, for in the Programme Commissions they have little possibility to make changes in the two-year programme put before us.
14.4 I welcome what was said by the distinguished delegates of Guinea and India on the subject of racism and apartheid in Southern Africa. I think it is one of the major duties of all of us at this Conference to support the peoples of Southern Africa in their present struggles, and to recognize the difficulties faced by many countries in Southern Africa, for example, Zambia.
14.5 I turn now to one of the key issues of this Conference on which the distinguished delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics has just spoken. This is the question of communications and the Draft Declaration on the Mass Media. I want to talk of that in as much depth as time allows. I think, and I hope, that, in spite of all the warnings about confrontation, we may be able to arrive later at a Declaration we can all accept. And warnings there have certainly been as the delegate from the USSR pointed out. I quote: "West and Third World head for Press Clash". This was a headline in our British press. Again, a New York Herald Tribune piece warned, quoting a Third World spokesman, that: "the West must heed the developing world's media needs or face an era of confrontation". Another British report began: "The lines of battle are being drawn for a potentially bitter clash between the news media of the rich industrialized countries and those of the poor countries of the developing world". But need there really be battle lines? It is better, surely, to analyse the nature of the problem and to see if, together, we can find the right answers as a framework for co-operation and mutual understanding.
14.6 Our starting point must be the Unesco Constitution, which speaks of: "the unrestricted pursuit of objective truth, and ... the free exchange of ideas and knowledge". Clearly, in considering the nature of "objective truth", we must distinguish between facts and value judgements. I know no media man or woman of the Western press who does not regard facts as sacred, and scarcely any who does not have a high ethical, professional standard. But in a world of conflicting ideas and ideologies, where value judgements cannot, or should not, be controlled - "the free exchange of ideas" - and where one man's inspiration is dogma to another, the selection of facts becomes critical.
14.7 That is not, I assure you, a problem for developing countries only. It is equally a problem for socialists in developed countries. I suppose we should be grateful that we are victims of pens and not of swords. If it were the other way round there would be very few of us left.
14.8 When we speak of bias we mean two things. Firstly, that good news does not sell newspapers, and good socialist news tends to finish up on the spike, particularly since there are very few socialist newspaper proprietors. Or it rates column 5 on page 5. Secondly, there is an increasing trend to mix facts with comment and then, also, a sub-editor with his own views tops the whole thing off with a headline. All this constitutes the imbalance which has been identified by two Royal Commissions on the British press.
14.9 These are the facts of life which we face every day. The developing world is not so familiar with them: they wonder why it is only their disasters and conflicts which make the headlines. Is there some Western conspiracy against them? I think not. It is simply that they have fallen victim to our curious sense of values. Newspapers must certainly shoulder their share of the blame for fostering this twisted view of the world, but, unhappily, they are often merely reflecting public apathy.
14.10 But I do not think that trying to regulate matters internationally through this Draft Declara- tion provides us with the solutions we need. I agree entirely with the condemnation that the distin- guished delegate from the Soviet Union just gave us on pornography as it affects children, but we believe that the right way to deal with that is to legislate against pornography and its effects upon children, rather than to mix it with one's attitude to the press itself and to the media as a whole. Now of course, we are faced with the familiar dilemma of reconciling rights and duties. The rights of the journalist, the duties of the journalist and the rights of the consumer, who is the newspaper reader, the radio listener and the television viewer. And, of course, there is a temptation to legislate, which in effect the Draft Declaration asks us to do, to define such rights and duties and to establish sanctions to ensure that they are respected. But let us look just a little more deeply into the nature of the problem, and let us give a sharper emphasis to stark realism.
14.11 Now, the first basic right of the potential consumer is very simple, and it is a right which has been mentioned in several statements this morning. He has a right to literacy. The issue of whether the press should be free or whether control is acceptable is irrelevant if the people cannot read. Indeed, I go further. Where there is a high rate of literacy in developing countries, there is usually a competitive press, simply because it becomes possible for newspapers to be viable. In Sri Lanka, where 85 per cent of the people can read, there are 24 daily newspapers. The exceptions are certain countries with high literacy rates, which rely upon suppression of a free press to maintain their regimes; and countries whose general literacy rates are low, but which have a substantial urban middle class which can support several newspapers.
14.12 The converse is also true. Developing countries with low rates of literacy can usually only achieve any newspapers at all by government subsidies to one or two national - government or party - papers. But where this is the case, we should not assume that subsidy equals control.
14.13 My action point one, therefore, is this: Unesco itself, and the industrialized countries, should give much greater emphasis to assistance in educational campaigns and efforts for literacy within the context of development. This year, Unesco provided 11 per cent of its education core budget for literacy. Is it enough? Should literacy not have even higher priority? If the Director- General should propose an-even bigger effort in this direction within the budget, the United Kingdom would certainly support him.
14.14 But now let us consider the kind of press a developing country with a literate public will be likely to want, and to need. It may want a commercially competitive press, which requires substantial advertising revenue for its profitability. It may be tolerant of foreign private investment in the ownership of its newspapers: there is a good deal of that now in the Third World. If so, it will face the problem that we face: that competition for circulation leads to trivialization, and to an emphasis on sex, crime, entertainment and sensationalism, because the market research men prove that these sell most papers. Trivialization plus the pressures of advertising will lead to a real danger that the "pursuit of objective truth" will be completely overlooked. There is, I use a very English phrase here, more than one way of killing the cat.
14.15 But what alternative is there? Obviously, the alternative to commercial newspapers is State subsidy. Now here, I ask the question: must State subsidy mean State control? It often does. Need it be so? For I do not think that State control is compatible with the freedom to pursue truth. Not that in most developing countries with a State subsidized press there are hosts of conflicting ideologies panting for freedom: we all know that it is not like that. For them, development is the name of the game, and arguments about the process of development are what matter to them. Now, there could be ways of reconciling State subsidy with freedom from State control. Those which have been proposed rest essentially on the twin propositions: firstly, that management should be separated from ownership, and secondly, that management should be the function of the working journalists - in the newspapers, in radio and in television. It was Raymond Williams, in Britain, who suggested some 20 years ago that a government-owned newspaper could be run by a trust, composed of the working: journalists, to which the government transferred its powers of control. We have, in fact, one or two examples of worker participation which came near to this concept. The BBC in Britain is an example, and in Paris one must certainly mention Le Monde, whose staff have just had the decisive voice in deciding on their editor.
14.16 So I come to my action point two: let Unesco make a positive contribution to research and the provision of advice in this field. However, any solutions on this kind of model would demand a great deal of the journalist, of all the professional and technical staff of the media, and of the technologies upon which they rely. Here is an area for positive co-operation between the developing countries on the one hand, and the international agencies and industrialized countries, on the other.
14.17 The Draft Programme and Budget refers to projects to promote "the definition and development of principles for media distribution and news exchanges at international level, taking into consideration the legal and economic aspects of the matter". While Unesco can provide a framework for increasing the exchange of information, the effect of such systematizing could lead to the restriction of the news-flow.
14.18 Unesco's most useful contribution lies elsewhere, in the channelling of funds and technical assistance. Countries must be helped to set up research programmes and, above all, to explore appropriate technologies for spreading information more effectively. With the assistance of govern- ments and of the existing news agencies, which already have wide experience in the field, Unesco can certainly help to create and strengthen national news agencies. It could promote a better match between known requirements and available assistance, monitoring requests and establishing contacts with potential donors. The latter will often be able to respond more rapidly and economically than can Unesco itself, but that is the sort of co-operation we seek.
14.19 If we interpret the call for a "new world information order" as the expression of a set of aspirations, we must, as governments, provide generous aid to improve physical communications. Some communications facilities, such as satellites, remain extremely expensive, although research will make their use feasible for all countries.
14.20 -But the cost of improving communications, particularly at the local level, need not be prohibi- tive. To give a couple of examples, photo-composing systems for small-circulation newspapers and magazines can be provided for £160,000, including the cost of a building. Community radio stations can be established for as little as £100,000. We can co-operate with such schemes to improve access to information for the millions who live in villages and rural areas.
14.21 Much of this can be done on a bilateral basis. In Britain, for example, the BBC and a number of non-governmental institutes and foundations have involved themselves deeply with training, with research and with the strengthening of news exchange arrangements. We can develop pro- grammes to make plant available, to support training schemes and workshops, to arrange travel grants and to sponsor consultants who can help to improve professional standards. We are in fact about to finance some 100 British journalists to go each year to developing countries to see for themselves the conditions obtaining in the communications area.
14.22 The creation of a climate in which journalism can function, information flow, communications improve and to which all levels of society can contribute is a practical task. There has to be the
498    will, the national and public intention, but there must also be hardware, a suitable infrastructure and a level of professional competence. Adequate training and experience are vital if journalists are to have the assurance they need to maintain their independence and integrity.
14.23 Whether it is nations helping each other on a bilateral basis or international organizations co-ordinating technical and training programmes, it is of abiding importance to establish regular personal contacts between professionals working in the same field. This is not a one-way business: it is part of a larger and complex two-way "flow of information", giving both partners in co-operative schemes the valuable insights into their profession which they need. All journalists operate under multiple pressures, and distortions may result as much from efforts - for whatever motive - to control the news, or from lack of skills, as-from the pre-eminence of a small number of news agencies.
14.24 1 referred earlier to the importance of well-conceived research. Indeed, the work of the MacBride Commission has been hampered by the lack of soundly-based material, and may well conclude that its recommendations should therefore be restricted to those areas where evidence exists. The British Government is examining ways of supporting responsible research, and will be ready to support projects which have a practical bearing on the work of the media, whether through Unesco or through Britain's own research institutes, and those within developing countries. I am looking, for example, into the major research project headed by Professor Asa Briggs, which aims to produce a complete, factual study of the flow of information around the world.
14.25 We must act on what we know. And we know, for example, that despite the enormous increase in radio ownership in the Third World, there is only one set for every 13 or 14 Africans, while there are more radios in the United States than there are people. Only 2 per cent of the world's book production circulates in Black Africa. These are crude indicators of deprivation of the right to know.
14.26 So, my action point three is that we should give priority to assistance in these practical fields. It is these which are relevant to the realities of professional life and public needs.
14.27 What matters are the daily battles of skilled and idealistic editors with shortages of skilled staff, bad communications, restrictions on newsprint, lack of money and the heart-breaking frustra- tion of distribution systems which do not begin to reach the vast majority even of those who are literate. What matters are the struggles of broadcasters with officials who will neither allocate adequate funds for the production of television material, nor permit them to exercise their professional judgement freely when they seek to import the best rather than the cheapest programmes.
14.28 What matters is not international agreements on the protection of journalists, but the fact that they so often lack the minimum facilities to collect and disseminate full and fair information. Improved equipment, communications and training will enhance their status and help them in turn to protect the public's right to know and to make choices on a basis of knowledge.
14.29 I believe that it would be premature for this Conference to try to reach a conclusion at this time on the Draft Declaration. I am reinforced in that view by my own reading of the interim report of the MacBride Commission on communication problems in modern society. The interim report says very clearly indeed that there are many problems which it proposes to study in depth before a final report is prepared.
14.30 Mr. President, I must say quite frankly to all my fellow delegates that in this matter I believe that compromise will be better than confrontation. For there are aspects of the Draft Declaration which my Government could not support, although we are, of course, always ready to work for reasonable compromise and consensus. The difficulty for us is that the Draft Declaration at present asks of some of us an assertion of principles we cannot accept and powers which are not in our gift and which we do not seek. Along the way things have gone a little wrong in the Draft Declaration. I hope we can all continue to work during this Conference with texts which all can accept, but, unhappily, if that cannot be achieved in the time that remains, I suggest that we would do best to postpone the decision. I summarize with the following recommendations: (1) that Unesco and the industrialized countries must give a greater thrust to assistance in education and literacy; (2) that Unesco should contribute to research and provide advice on the media needs of developing countries;
(3) that Unesco and the industrialized countries should provide practical assistance to developing countries in their efforts to build up their own communications systems and their own contribution to the free flow of information in the world.
14.31 Mr. President, I suggest that to begin such a programme, in which we would certainly play our part, is-far more important to the developing countries than any other aspect of this question. They have real needs, which we all recognize. Let the dialogue on texts continue. But let us move Into the area of positive constructive action.
14.32 That is my proposal and my recommendation. I make it in concern, and in recognition of the difficult and harsh realities of the communications problems of the Third World. I hope that we may find agreement to go forward in this way. Thank you.
15. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Royaume-Uni et je donne maintenant la parole à S. Exc. M. Li Chi, vice-ministre du Ministère de l'éducation et chef de la délégation de la Chine.
16.1 M. LI CHI (Chine) (discours prononcé en chinois, traduction francaise fournie par la délégation).- Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, c'est pour moi un grand plaisir d'être venu à Paris conduire la délégation chinoise à la vingtième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco et d'avoir l'occasion d'échanger des propos d'amitié et des expériences avec mes collègues des différents pays réunis dans cette salle. Qu'il me soit permis tout d'abord d'adresser, au nom de la délégation chinoise, mes chaleureuses félicitations à M. LeBlanc pour son élection à la présidence de la présente session. Je félicite les nouveaux Etats membres admis au sein de l'Organisation depuis la dix-neuvième session de'la Conférence générale et je tiens à leur souhaiter une chaleureuse bien- venue. Nous espérons que la Namibie et la Dominique rejoindront bientôt les rangs des Etats membres de plein droit.
16.2 Depuis la clôture de la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale tenue il y a deux ans à Nairobi, de nombreux Etats membres, les pays du Tiers Monde en particulier, ont fait de nouveaux progrès dans le développement de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture. Beaucoup de pays ont déployé de grands efforts pour promouvoir l'enseignement dans les langues nationales et lutter acti- vement contre l'analphabétisme. En conséquence, le taux de scolarisation n'a cessé de s'accroître, de même que le nombre des diplômés de l'enseignement supérieur. Nombreux sont les pays en dévelop- pement qui ont remporté des succès remarquables tant dans les domaines scientifique et technique que sur le plan culturel. Pendant la même période, la coopération et les échanges revêtant diverses formes entre les Etats membres comme entre les régions ont enregistré de nouveaux progrès et bénéficié du soutien de l'Organisation. Les pays en développement ont porté un jugement favorable sur les efforts déployés ces deux dernières années par l'Unesco en faveur du Tiers Monde. Ils ont d'autre part formulé le voeu que les activités du programme de l'Organisation s'adaptent mieux encore à leurs besoins réels. La présente session saura, nous l'espérons, répondre favorablement à ce voeu.
16.3 Monsieur le Président, le Projet de programme et de budget de l'Unesco pour 1979-1980, c'est- à-dire le document 20 C/5, est un document important soumis à notre examen et à notre approbation. Bon nombre d'orateurs qui m'ont précédé ont fait des commentaires à son sujet. Je me permettrai ici d'y ajouter quelques observations.
16.4 Les pays en développement représentent la majorité de 140 et quelques Etats membres de l'Organisation. Ils doivent tous faire face à cette tâche ardue qu'est le développement accéléré de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture nationales. Bien sûr, pour atteindre cet objectif, ils doivent compter essentiellement sur leurs propres forces, mais une certaine aide de l'extérieur leur serait nécessaire. A cet égard, il est bien naturel que l'Unesco assume la responsabilité qui lui incombe, et qui doit être considérée comme le point de départ essentiel de l'élaboration de sa poli- tique et de son programme. Il faut que les activités de l'Unesco aident ces pays à faire fond sur leurs propres forces et à réaliser et consolider une véritable indépendance sur le plan culturel. Dans ce sens, la proposition du Directeur général visant à faire du "développement endogène" un "objectif prioritaire” des activités de programme de l'Organisation est à notre avis tout à fait justifiée. Nous souhaitons que ce principe soit pleinement appliqué lors du réexamen et de l'exécution des activités du programme de l'Organisation. Nous espérons que l'Unesco, tout en tenant compte des besoins de l'ensemble des Etats membres, apportera tout particulièrement une contribution effective et efficace au développement des pays du Tiers Monde dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture nationales.
16.5 Monsieur le Président, l'éducation est un des domaines essentiels qui relèvent de la compétence de l'Unesco. Il est donc tout naturel que les activités menées dans ce domaine par l'Organisation fassent depuis toujours l'objet de l'attention des Etats membres, notamment des pays en développe- ment. Il n'y a pas longtemps que la plupart des Etats du Tiers Monde ont conquis leur indépen- dance. Ils aspirent à développer leur économie nationale et à promouvoir leur oeuvre culturelle. Pour atteindre ce but, il leur faut disposer d'un grand nombre de professionnels compétents et de travail- leurs qualifiés. Voilà une des tâches importantes de l'éducation. Bien sûr, pour développer l'éduca- tion nationale, les pays du Tiers Monde doivent compter tout d'abord sur leurs propres efforts. Cependant, l'Unesco pourra participer à cette tâche, par exemple en les aidant, sur leur demande, à développer différentes sortes d'entreprises éducatives, à rédiger des manuels, à former des ensei- gnants nationaux pour les différents degrés de l'enseignement. Elle pourra aussi leur fournir des équipements éducatifs nécessaires. Nous avons constaté que beaucoup d'activités de ce genre sont prévues dans le Projet de programme biennal de l'Organisation, et nous leur accordons notre soutien. Nous estimons que le principe fondamental qui régit toutes les activités d'aide de l'Organisation doit être le suivant : respecter strictement la souveraineté des pays bénéficiaires en leur fournissant une aide qui réponde à leurs besoins pratiques et qui leur permette de s'appuyer davantage sur leurs propres forces. Nous sommes sûrs que si elles suivent une orientation juste, les activités que déploie notre Organisation dans ce domaine bénéficieront d'un soutien et d'un accueil encore plus enthou- siastes de la part des pays en développement.
16.6 Nous avons remarqué aussi que ces dernières années, les activités de 1'Unesco dans le domaine scientifique ont eu tendance a s'élargir et que les programmes pertinents pour l'exercice 1979-1980 ont été renforcés. Cette tendance reflète l'attention particulière que les Etats membres attachent au développement rapide de la science et de la technologie dans leur propre pays. Elle répond bien au besoin urgent, selon eux, de renforcer la coopération internationale en matière de science et de technologie. Le Projet de programme et de budget de notre Organisation pour les deux prochaines années fait état des relations étroites qui existent dans un pays donné entre le développement scien- tifique et technique et le progrès socio-économique. La science et la technologie font partie des forces de production. La prospérité et la puissance d'un Etat, le progrès d'une nation, sont insépa- rables du développement de la science et de la technique. Pour mettre fin le plus rapidement possible
500    à leur sous-développement dans les domaines économique et culturel, les pays du Tiers Monde re- 11 doublent actuellement d'efforts en vue d'élever leur niveau scientifique et technique. Les pays déve- loppés ont le devoir de leur apporter une aide dans ce sens. Nous sommes heureux que 1'Unesco ait accompli un travail utile dans l'organisation de la communication et de la coopération internationales en matière de science et de technologie. Aujourd'hui, avec le progrès chaque jour croissant de la science et de la technologie dans le monde, l'aspiration des différents pays au développement scien- tifique et technique se manifeste d'une façon accentuée. Nous espérons que les programmes d'acti- vités scientifiques et techniques de l'Unesco permettront, en fournissant une aide substantielle et efficace aux pays en développement, de réduire progressivement l'écart qui les sépare des pays développés quant au niveau scientifique et technique. Nous sommes persuadés que si l'Unesco étudie avec sérieux et prend en considération les exigences réelles des Etats membres et surtout celles des pays en développement, elle pourra jouer un rôle plus important encore dans la promotion du déve- loppement scientifique et technique de ces pays.
16.7 En ce qui concerne les activités ayant trait à la culture et à la communication, nous soutenons le prochain programme biennal de l'Organisation dans la mesure où il continue de prendre comme principe fondamental la préservation et le développement de l'identité culturelle des diverses nations. Toutes les nations, tous les pays du monde possèdent leurs traditions culturelles propres, leur patrimoine historique et leurs modes d'expression artistique spécifiques. La préservation et la pro- motion de l'identité cuiturelle des nations, le développement de l'appréciation et de la compréhension mutuelles des cultures contribueront à renforcer la dignité et la fierté nationales des pays en déve- loppement qui ont, pendant de longues années, subi l'asservissement et l'oppression culturels, leur permettront de boycotter et de liquider l'influence néfaste des cultures imposées de l'étranger et de développer leur propre culture vivante, et enfin contribueront à promouvoir les échanges culturels entre les Etats et à enrichir le patrimoine culturel du monde. Pour ne citer qu'un exemple, l'Histoire générale de l'Afrique dont la rédaction et la préparation sont assumées par des Africains sous les auspices de l'Unesco est dans cet ordre d'idées un travail revêtant un intérêt majeur. D'autre part, dans certaines sections du même chapitre sont mentionnées des activités telles que la collecte et la diffusion des traditions orales en Afrique ou la promotion des langues nationales dans les régions en développement telles que l'Afrique, l'Amérique latine et l'Océanie. Nous soutenons ces activités appro- priées et souhaitons qu'elles soient couronnées de succès, car nous sommes certains qu'elles joueront un rôle positif dans le développement de l'apport des cultures nationales dans les pays du Tiers Monde.
16.8 Monsieur le Président, nous avons également constaté que des thèmes portant sur la contri- bution de l'Unesco à la lutte pour la paix, contre le colonialisme et le racisme ainsi qu'à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique mondial ont fait l'objet de commentaires dans le cadre du débat de politique générale. A ce propos, je voudrais faire quelques remarques de principe.
16.9 La contribution de 1'Unesco a la paix est une question qui a suscité de nombreuses discussions lors des sessions de la Conférence générale tenues ces dernières années. Nous estimons que le débat sur la sauvegarde de la paix ne devra pas perdre de vue l'analyse concrète de la situation inter- nationale actuelle, ni éluder cette question sérieuse : d'où viendra le danger de guerre ? A l'heure actuelle, la rivalité des superpuissances devient de plus en plus acharnée ; le social-impérialisme est en train de renforcer son dispositif stratégique planétaire et les facteurs de guerre s'aggravent sensiblement. La politique effrénée d'agression et d'expansion du social-impérialisme démontre une fois de plus qu'il est la principale menace pour la paix et la sécurité du monde. Le Tiers Monde et les nombreux pays moyens et petits exigent vigoureusement que les superpuissances cessent leur course aux armements et mettent en pratique le désarmement. Cette exigence est tout à fait légitime et raisonnable. Cependant, les deux superpuissances, dont les dépenses militaires avoisinent la totalité des dépenses militaires des quelque 150 autres pays, affirment que tous les pays doivent procéder ensemble au désarmement. En fait, elles cherchent délibérément à semer la confusion en vue d'endormir les peuples du monde, de lier les mains des autres pays, de s'imposer l'une à l'autre des restrictions et de camoufler l'expansion générale de leurs armements. Aussi doit-on souligner que, s'il faut procéder au désarmement, alors, c'est aux superpuissances de le faire les premières. On doit en outre dénoncer, pour accroître la vigilance des peuples du monde vis-à-vis de la guerre, le complot du désarmement fictif et de l'expansion réelle des armements que trament les superpuis- sances, et surtout celle qui mène le plus grand tapage autour du désarmement. C'est seulement ainsi que l'on pourra apporter une contribution véritablement positive au renforcement de la paix et re- pousser l'échéance de la guerre. A notre avis, c'est dans cette voie que l'Unesco doit porter ses efforts, étant donné qu'elle est appelée à apporter sa contribution à la paix mondiale et à développer les activités de recherche, d'éducation et d'information relatives à la paix. Nous sommes d'avis que l'Organisation doit déployer son action dans ce sens.
16.10 La lutte contre le colonialisme et le racisme est aussi une question importante soumise à l'examen de cette session de la Conférence générale. Ces deux dernières années, en Afrique du Sud, la lutte contre l'impérialisme et les régimes racistes des Blancs, pour l'indépendance et la libération nationales, s'est développée en profondeur. Le peuple chinois, se tenant résolument aux côtés de l'héroïque peuple africain, accorde son ferme soutien à la juste cause des peuples du Zimbabwe, de la Namibie et de l'Azanie.
16.11 La lutte des peuples arabes et palestinien contre le sionisme, pour le recouvrement des terri- toires occupés et la reconquête des droits nationaux palestiniens est un combat étroitement lié à la lutte contre les superpuissances qui se disputent l'hégémonie au Moyen-Orient. Le gouvernement et le peuple chinois soutiennent fermement la juste lutte des peuples arabes et palestinien, condamnent énergiquement la politique d'agression et d'expansion du sionisme et s'opposent résolument aux acti- Vités que mènent les superpuissances en vue d'établir leur hégémonie.
16.12 Réformer radicalement l'ancien ordre économique international, fondé sur la mainmise, le pillage et l'exploitation et établir un nouvel ordre économique international équitable, voilà une mis- sion d'une importance considérable que se sont assignée les pays du Tiers Monde. Ceux-ci ont entre- pris, au cours de ces deux dernières années, une lutte soutenue pour la satisfaction de leurs justes revendications. La lutte pour l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international entraîne de nouvelles exigences pour la coopération internationale et pour les activités destinées à favoriser la communication entre les pays dans le domaine de la culture. Etablir et développer une communication et une coopération de type nouveau reposant sur l'égalité et l'avantage réciproque et visant à pro- mouvoir le développement indépendant des différents pays, voilà une tâche importante qui incombe à l'Unesco au titre de sa contribution à l'établissement d'un nouvel ordre économique international. Les conceptions, principes et pratiques traditionnels et désuets de l'"aide culturelle” doivent être rejetés. Toute allégation qui s'opposerait à l'instauration de ce nouvel ordre est à condamner. Nous sommes convaincus que sous l'impulsion de ses Etats membres et avec leur participation active, l'Unesco pourra faire oeuvre utile dans ce sens.
16.13 Monsieur le Président, voilà déjà plus de deux ans que le peuple chinois a remporté la vic- toire historique qu'est l'écrasement de la Bande des quatre. Au cours de cette période, sous la juste direction du Parti communiste chinois à la tête duquel se trouve le président Hua Kuo-feng, notre dirigeant clairvoyant, toutes les nationalités qui composent le peuple chinois ont redoublé d'efforts et travaillé d'arrache-pied afin d'accomplir l'ensemble des tâches fixées pour la nouvelle période de développement dans le cadre de la révolution et de l'édification socialistes, et de faire de notre pays, avant la fin du siècle, un puissant Etat socialiste doté d'une agriculture, d'une industrie, d'une défense nationale et d'une science et technologie modernes, c'est-à-dire ayant mené à bien les quatre modernisations. Le peuple chinois lutte avec acharnement pour la réalisation du plan décennal de développement de l'économie nationale et du programme de planification du développement scientifique et technologique à l'échelle nationale. Ayant remédié rapidement à la situation désastreuse provoquée par le sabotage de la Bande des quatre, notre économie nationale, dans tous ses secteurs, s'est engagée dans la voie d'une croissance constante et d'un développement salutaire. L'industrie, l'agri- culture, tout comme les finances et le commerce, ont connu un développement relativement rapide.
16.14 La modernisation de la science et de la technologie constitue l'élément clé de la mise en oeuvre des quatre modernisations. La conférence nationale sur les sciences qui a eu lieu au printemps de cette année dans notre pays a défini en termes explicites les principes, les politiques et les méthodes en matière de développement de la science et de la technologie. Elle a aussi élaboré un plan de développement scientifique et technologique à l'échelle nationale pour la période 1978-1985. Un heu- reux départ a ainsi été donné à notre marche en avant vers la modernisation de la science et de la technologie. Sur le front éducatif, nous sommes en train de prendre les mesures qui s'imposent pour rectifier l'orientation de l'éducation, améliorer la qualité de l'enseignement et lui donner un nouvel essor afin de former au plus tôt le grand nombre de cadres compétents que nécessite la réalisation des quatre modernisations de notre pays.
16.15 Sur le front de l'art et de la littérature, nous nous efforçons de développer et de rendre prospère la création littéraire et artistique afin d'enrichir la vie culturelle. Les principes formulés par le président Mao, à savoir "Que cent fleurs s'épanouissent, que cent écoles rivalisent, que l'ancien serve le présent, que ce qui est étranger serve ce qui est chinois, que de l'ancien se dé- gage le nouveau", sont appliqués de façon plus judicieuse et se traduisent toujours davantage dans la réalité. Bref, nous sommes en train de déployer d'immenses efforts pour imprimer un nouvel essor à l'éducation, à la science et à la culture, en vue d'élever considérablement le niveau scientifique et culturel de la nation chinoise et de faire en sorte que les larges masses laborieuses possèdent les techniques de la production moderne et les connaissances scientifiques, et qu'un important contingent d'intellectuels de la classe ouvrière puisse se constituer.
16.16 Pour élever le niveau de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture de notre pays, il faut tout d'abord compter sur nos propres efforts, faire s'épanouir notre esprit créateur et persister dans l'application de la politique d'indépendance et d'autonomie. En même temps, nous réaffirmons le mot d'ordre par lequel le président Mao nous a appelés à apprendre auprès des pays étrangers. Nous devons apprendre toutes les qualités des autres, à quelque nation et à quelque pays qu'ils appar- tiennent ; nous devons apprendre tout ce qui est authentiquement utile dans les domaines politique, économique, scientifique et technique, comme sur les plans de l'éducation, de la littérature, des arts et de la presse. Nous devons nous inspirer des pays étrangers non seulement parce qu'aujourd'hui, notre économie et notre culture sont encore arriérées, mais aussi parce que même plus tard, quand les quatre modernisations seront réalisées, nous aurons toujours besoin de faire nôtre tout ce qui est positif -dans les pays étrangers, c'est-à-dire chez les autres.
16.17 Monsieur le Président, la Chine reste fidèle à la ligne révolutionnaire définie par le président Mao en matière de politique étrangère. Elle soutient fermement la juste lutte des pays du Tiers Monde et des différents peuples et appuie leurs aspirations et revendications légitimes concernant le déve- loppement de l'économie et de la culture nationales. Nous continuerons à apporter, dans la mesure de nos possibilités, notre contribution à l'oeuvre de l'Unesco. En même temps, comme la Chine est un pays en développement, nous espérons qu'en participant aux activités de l'Unesco, nous pourrons acquérir des connaissances sur les expériences utiles et les sciences et techniques avancées des autres pays et apprendre auprès d'eux. Nous souhaitons entreprendre avec eux une coopération et des échanges reposant sur les principes de l'avantage réciproque et de la complémentarité. J'ai le plaisir d'évoquer ici la visite fructueuse que M. le directeur général Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow a effec- tuée l'été dernier dans notre pays. L'entretien que le vice-premier ministre Teng Hsiao-ping a eu avec lui a ouvert de nouvelles perspectives à la coopération entre l'Unesco et la Chine. Nous sommes convaincus que grâce aux efforts conjugués des deux partenaires, notre coopération fera, à coup sûr, de nouveaux pas en avant.
16.18 Pour conclure, nous souhaitons des succès plus grands aux Etats membres dans leur lutte pour la consolidation de l'indépendance nationale et pour le développement de l'économie, de l'éduca- tion, de la science et de la culture nationales. Nous souhaitons que l'Unesco apporte de nouvelles contributions au développement des pays du Tiers Monde et des Etats membres, ainsi qu'au progrès de l'humanité. Nous souhaitons enfin un plein succès à la présente session de la Conférence générale. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
17. Le PRESIDENT .- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Chine et je donne la parole à M. Christian Beullac, ministre de l'éducation et chef de la délégation de la France.
18.1 M. BEULLAC (France).- Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, ici- même, il y a trois jours, le Président de la République française, M. Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, soulignait toute l'importance qu'attache la France à l'Unesco et tout l'intérêt qu'elle porte à ses travaux. Il n'est plus d'usage dans mon pays, même pour un ministre de l'éducation, de citer du latin dans un discours. Mais s'il est vrai, d'après un aphorisme plus ou moins inspiré d'un poète ancien, que "les choses répétées plaisent" - surtout, ajouterai-je, lorsqu'elles sont agréables à entendre -, je voudrais dire à mon tour notre plein soutien à l'action que poursuit l'Organisation et le très vif espoir que nous plaçons dans l'actuelle session de la Conférence générale, la vingtième en date depuis l'installation de l'Unesco dans notre capitale.
18.2 Préparée par un directeur général, M. M'Bow, dont la haute compétence et le profond dévoue- ment sont unanimement reconnus, présidée par une personnalité d'une sagesse et d'une expérience aussi grandes que M. LeBlanc, nul doute que cette session ne débouche sur les résultats positifs et concrets que les délégations de tous les pays en attendent. Nairobi a prouvé qu'il était possible à des hommes de bonne volonté - et nous le sommes tous dans cette enceinte - de surmonter leurs différends pour parvenir, dans les principaux domaines où va se jouer d'ici vingt ans l'avenir de l'humanité, à cet accord, même relatif, sans lequel nous nous trouverions condamnés à terme, et par nous-mêmes.
18.3 C'est pourquoi je ne saurais trop insister, au seuil de mon intervention, sur l'importance de la "volonté de consensus" qui s'est affirmée, comme nous l'a rappelé le Directeur général dans son magistral discours, tout au long de la dix-neuvième session. Cette volonté, et le mot revêt ici tout son sens, a été rendue possible par l'adoption d'une procédure dont le mérite revient en grande partie à M. M'Bow. Ainsi fut restauré, après les rudes atteintes qu'il avait subies deux ans plus tôt, cet esprit de coopération et de compréhension qui fait toute la raison d'être de l'Unesco et qui nous est si cher, par tradition, à mes compatriotes et à moi-même. "La tolérance, écrivait l'un des loin- tains précurseurs de la Révolution française, est la chose du monde la plus propre à ramener le siecle d'or". Elle est la seule, en tout cas, qui permette à l'Unesco de préserver son originalité propre. Bien qu'étant une institution de nature et de structure "politiques", elle ne saurait devenir en effet, sans déroger à sa tâche, le champ de manoeuvre où s'affronteraient des propagandes anta- gonistes. Ce serait ruiner les efforts accomplis par tous les Etats membres depuis plus de vingt ans pour atteindre, en dépit ou plutôt à cause des différences qui les séparent, à cette vision globale sans laquelle il n'est plus, dorénavant, de salut pour personne.
18.4 Le temps est fini, et bien fini, des "splendides isolements". Qu'ils soient développés ou en voie de l'être, tous les pays sont solidaires. Solidarité de fait qu'il appartient à l'Unesco de transformer en solidarité de droit. Comme le dit si bien la postface du Projet d'ajustements au Plan à moyen terme : "Ce qui paraît aujourd'hui, plus que jamais, capital, c'est de faire progresser, au-delà de l'interdépendance subie comme une fatalité, une interdépendance voulue et organisée, c'est-à-dire une véritable solidarité permettant d'éviter les confrontations et les conflits et de renforcer la con- vergence des efforts". On se tromperait gravement, à mon sens, en ne voyant dans de tels propos qu'un simple voeu pieu un discours purement moral. Le coeur, ici, va de pair avec la raison. En d'autres termes, si l'Unesco est la conscience, au sens moral, de notre monde, c'est aussi et d'abord parce qu'elle en est la conscience au sens psychologique. Parce qu'elle a su prendre, à l'échelle de la planète, la pleine mesure de notre temps. Parce qu'elle a compris, la première, à partir d'une réflexion sur la science, l'éducation et la culture, qu'un nouvel ordre économique était nécessaire non seulement à la grandeur mais à la survie de l'espèce.
18.5 Ce nouvel ordre, qui ne serait plus la traduction cynique et suicidaire d'un rapport de forces, comment l'instaurer sinon par le contraire même de la force, c'est-à-dire par le consensus ? Pas de vision globale sans consensus, mais pas de consensus, non plus, sans vision globale. Je suis sur ce point en parfait accord avec le Directeur général et je pense avec lui que seul, pour reprendre ses propres termes, un "dialogue constructif susceptible d'aboutir à un large consensus” peut permettre à notre organisation de résoudre les délicats problèmes qui se posent à elle, notamment dans le domaine de la communication. La mission de l'Unesco lui dicte ses méthodes : en contrevenant aux unes, elle manquerait à l'autre. Entre un pseudo-réalisme à courte vue et une prospective sans obligation ni sanction, la marge est étroite : j'ai pleinement confiance dans l'Unesco pour qu'elle sache, une nouvelle fois, s'y tenir.
18.6 Mais elle ne s'y tiendra, et le consensus ne remplira efficacement son rôle, que si elle consent à une indispensable concentration de son programme. Je voudrais rappeler à cet égard, mais sans en tirer la moindre vanité, le rôle joué par notre délégation à la dix-septième session en faveur d'un plan à moyen terme conçu par problèmes et par objectifs, puis à la dix-huitième session pour la définition de ces problèmes et de ces objectifs, à la dix-neuvième session enfin, à propos des rap- ports entre le plan et les programmes biennaux. Si les plus réticents des pays membres s'étaient finalement ralliés à notre initiative, c'était surtout dans l'espoir qu'une telle réforme mettrait un terme à une certaine dispersion des activités de l'Unesco et conduirait à un regroupement autour
503    d'objectifs prioritaires. Or cet espoir, qui était aussi le nétre, ne risque-t-il pas d'étre quelque peu déçu ? Que l'on m'entende bien : il n'est pas question de notre part, sous couleur de concentration, de pousser à une quelconque réduction qui serait dictée par le souci de satisfaire des "besoins essentiels". Le problème est avant tout un problème d'efficacité, et cette efficacité ne sera obtenue, je le répète, que par un constant effort de concentration des actions et donc des moyens. Je dirai qu'il s'agit moins de jeter par dessus bord tel ou tel élément de la cargaison que de mieux arrimer l'ensemble. Par sa composition comme par sa vocation, l'Unesco doit faire face à une diversité presque infinie de situations : si elle la néglige, elle se perd dans les généralités creuses ; si elle y cède, elle est très vite étouffée sous la prolifération des tâches.
18.7 Cet équilibrage ou ce rééquilibrage difficiles mais indispensables, je voudrais y contribuer brièvement devant vous en choisissant de privilégier, par une démarche qui vous paraîtra peut-être inhabituelle, un problème précis. Ce problème, dans lequel l'Unesco a des responsabilités toutes particulières, sera celui du transfert des technologies.
18.8 La question n'est pas nouvelle. Mais elle ne s'est jamais posée d'une manière aussi urgente et je dirais volontiers, à tous les sens du terme, d'une manière aussi critique. Aussi bien pour leur agriculture que pour leur industrie, tous les pays du monde et notamment les pays en développement empruntent ou importent des technologies élaborées dans d'autres pays à haut niveau d'activités. De tels emprunts sont au coeur même du développement comme de l'élaboration de ce nouvel ordre éco- nomique international que l'Unesco s'efforce, à si juste titre, de définir et de promouvoir.
18.9 Or l'expérience a prouvé qu'ils ne se font pas toujours dans des conditions satisfaisantes et qu'ils sont loin, très souvent, de produire les effets espérés. A cet échec relatif, il y a plusieurs raisons. Il arrive que les techniques empruntées soient trop sophistiquées, trop onéreuses ou mal adaptées à la situation et au caractère propres des pays concernés. Il arrive également que ces mêmes pays ne disposent pas sur place du personnel nécessaire - ingénieurs, techniciens, ouvriers qualifiés, cadres administratifs. Il arrive enfin que les technologies ainsi transférées, parce qu'elles le sont d'une façon beaucoup trop brutale, heurtent gravement et quelquefois irrémédiablement des coutumes, des croyances, des valeurs culturelles auxquelles les populations sont profondément attachées.
18.10 Notre premier devoir, et donc notre premier objectif pour les années à venir, devrait être de nous interroger sur les techniques elles-mêmes : ne vaudrait-il pas mieux recourir, dans bien des cas, à des techniques enracinées dans la culture et dans la tradition, et qui, convenablement adaptées, pourraient contribuer à un développement économique et social harmonieux des pays en cause dans le respect de leur identité ? D'une façon plus générale, c'est tout le problème de la contribution de la science et de la technique au développement qui se pose, en des termes qui obligent - mais n'est-ce pas la vocation même de l'Unesco ? - à une action globale et coordonnée.
18.11 Les Nations Unies organiseront à Vienne sur ce sujet en août 1979 une conférence à laquelle l'Unesco se doit d'être partie prenante. Notre Organisation n'est-elle pas et ne doit-elle pas demeurer celle qui par excellence a compétence pour traiter de la science et de la technologie ? Notre commis- sion nationale a procédé pour sa part à une vaste enquête auprès d'un grand nombre d'institutions, d'entreprises et de personnalités. Cette enquête rejoint, pour l'essentiel, les propositions contenues dans "Le monde en devenir", ce précieux ouvrage qu'a préfacé M. M'Bow. Elle a confirmé en parti- culier que la relation, en vue du développement, entre science et technologie n'est pas simple et qu'il existe, en fait, une interaction. Comme le dit "Le monde en devenir", "ce sont souvent les besoins nés du développement et le perfectionnement des techniques qui poussent la science à inten- sifier sa recherche et l'orientent".
18.12 Mais le rapport n'en joue pas moins dans les deux sens et ce serait une erreur grave, notre enquête nous l'a prouvé, que de délaisser la recherche fondamentale au profit de la recherche appli- quée ou de soumettre un peu trop précipitamment la première à la seconde. Le développement serait sans fondements s'il s'appuyait uniquement sur une transposition ou une simple "adaptation" des techniques. C'est pourquoi la France, précisément parce qu'elle est soucieuse d'aboutir à des résul- tats concrets et de répondre aux espérances légitimes des pays en développement, continuera d'ap- porter tout son appui aux grands programmes de coopération scientifique. Je ferai simplement re- marquer que ces programmes n'auront de sens et d'effet que si, aux divers stades de leur mise en oeuvre, les sciences exactes acceptent de dialoguer avec les sciences sociales : de même que l'on ne saurait couper la science de la technique, on ne saurait séparer l'interrogation sur le milieu naturel d'une interrogation sur le milieu humain.
18.13 Parallèlement à ce travail de réflexion et de recherche, il conviendra, et ce sera mon second point, de mieux concevoir, préparer et diffuser l'information, en particulier scientifique et technique car nous touchons, ici encore, à un problème beaucoup plus général, celui de la libre circulation de l'information - principe auquel la France est très fermement attachée. Ce principe suppose une meil- leure diversification des sources et une concurrence beaucoup plus ouverte entre les agences, ce qui n'ira pas, pour certains pays, sans des difficultés matérielles dont notre Organisation devra se préoccuper, au moins sur certains plans. Pour m'en tenir à mon propos, je me bornerai à souligner que l'information scientifique et technique est le support indispensable des échanges de renseigne- ments et des transferts de technologie.
18.14 Mais cette information serait elle-même inopérante si elle ne s'accompagnait - pour en arriver à mon troisième et dernier point -d'un vigoureux effort en faveur de la formation. Cet effort intéresse tous les pays. Partout dans le monde, en effet, la jeunesse s'interroge avec inquiétude sur les conditions de son entrée dans la vie professionnelle. Du fait des bouleversements de tous ordres qui
504    affectent actuellement l'économie mondiale, les risques de chômage et de sous-emploi s'aggravent. Sans doute, comme le Président de la République française l'a très opportunément rappelé a cette tribune, l'éducation ne saurait-elle être tenue pour responsable de ces problèmes. Mais elle n'en joue pas moins un rôle déterminant dans la préparation des jeunes à la vie active et au monde du travail. C'est pourquoi la délégation française approuve l'initiative qu'a prise le Directeur général d'ajouter comme nouvel objectif, dans son Projet d'ajustements au Plan à moyen terme, le développement de l'enseignement technique et professionnel.
18.15 Il ne faudrait pourtant pas que le développement de l'enseignement techque, éminemment souhaitable, alourdisse encore davantage la charge dont pèse, sur nos différents budgets nationaux, la part de l'éducation. Dans le domaine de l'enseignement technique, la tentation est grande, en effet, de céder à ce que j'appellerais volontiers la pente du quantitatif : on multiplie et on entasse les équipements, on diversifie et on complique les filières. Il me semble qu'il en va de l'enseignement technique en particulier comme du transfert des technologies en général, dont il est la clé : les procédures les plus sophistiquées ne sont pas toujours les meilleures, car elles sont rarement adap- tées et plus rarement encore adaptables à la réalité, qui ne cesse d'évoluer, des situations sociales et des besoins économiques.
18.16 Nous devons donc éviter de mettre en place des formations professionnelles qu'en France nous appelons trop "pointues", je veux dire trop spécialisées. Comme je l'ai déjà fait valoir en d'autres lieux, la relation entre l'emploi et la formation est plus complexe qu'on ne l'imagine généralement. Elle est liée aussi bien aux technologies utilisées qu'aux divers modes d'organisation du travail prati- qués dans les entreprises. L'ajustement, vers lequel nous devons tendre, de la formation à l'emploi ne peut se réaliser qu'à un cetain niveau, celui des grandes catégories ou des grands types de métiers, et demande de toute façon que l'on anticipe en permanence sur l'avenir, suivant des sché- mas prospectifs suffisamment souples pour pouvoir être aisément et rapidement remodelés.
18.17 Je tire de ces quelques remarques qui s'appliquent, j'y insiste, à tous les pays, la nécessité, pour des raisons qui ne sont pas seulement d'ordre économique ou statistique, de ne pas tomber aujourd'hui pour l'enseignement technique dans les excès où nous étions tombés jadis pour l'en- seignement général. C'est notre enseignement tout entier qu'il faut repenser en y introduisant dès le plus jeune âge la dimension technologique, en luttant contre le privilège excessif trop souvent accor- dé à la formation abstraite et en se préoccupant d'initier l'élève, d'une manière progressive, vivante et raisonnée, aux réalités économiques et sociales.
18.18 C'est pourquoi la délégation française propose de redéfinir l'objectif introduit par le Directeur général et de parler, non seulement du développement de l'enseignement technique et professionnel, mais, dans une perspective plus large, des rapports entre l'éducation et le monde du travail. Une telle formulation permettrait d'explorer d'une manière cohérente et concertée les perspectives parti- culièrement stimulantes ouvertes par la formation continue, l'éducation permanente et ce que l'on tend aujourd'hui à nommer l'autodidaxie, c'est-à-dire l'apprentissage autonome des connaissances. Elle permettrait également de développer une collaboration plus étroite avec les organisations internatio- nales compétentes, et notamment l'Organisation internationale du travail.
18.19 Voilà, rapidement indiquée, l'orientation que l'on pourrait donner au programme de l'Organi- sation à partir d'un problème concret, pour en assurer dans l'avenir une meilleure concentration. Ce disant, je ne me sens nullement en contradiction avec l'exposé du Directeur général. J'ai simplement voulu apporter ma contribution à la réflexion à laquelle nous allons nous appliquer dans les semaines qui viennent.
18.20 Il manquerait pourtant un trait essentiel à ce tableau si je n'évoquais, pour conclure, une question qui dominera, je n'en doute pas, cette vingtième session : celle des droits de l'homme. "Il est bien des merveilles en ce monde", s'écriait Sophocle, "il n'en est pas de plus grande que l'homme". Cette merveille, trop souvent maltraitée, mutilée, massacrée, au nom des intérêts les plus bassement matériels, nous en sommes tous, à l'Unesco, les protecteurs et les garants. Contre les idéologies qui asservissent, contre les phraséologies qui déguisent, nous affirmons, nous maintenons le droit des hommes à être pleinement et librement eux-mêmes.
18.21 Je viens de dire le droit, au singulier. Je sais que l'Unesco se préoccupe de définir de nou- veaux droits, au pluriel. Sans doute correspondent-ils, pour chacun d'entre eux, à des aspirations légitimes. Mais je me demande s'ils ne risquent pas de détourner, par leur prolifération même, de ce qui pour nous, Français, héritiers de 1789, demeure la tâche fondamentale : assurer à chacun le libre choix de son propre destin. Ce n'est pas en enfermant l'individu dans le carcan du juridisme que nous l'aiderons à mieux défendre ses droits, c'est en lui donnant la pleine conscience de ses pouvoirs mais aussi de ses devoirs : vis-à-vis de lui-même, vis-à-vis de la société, vis-à-vis de l'espèce tout entière.
19.1 Le PRESIDENT .- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la France. Je vous prie de noter qu'au début de la séance plénière de cet après-midi, nous examinerons le point 72 - Demande d'admission de la Namibie comme membre de l'Unesco - et qu'ensuite nous reprendrons le débat de politique générale.
19.2 La séance est levée. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. La séance est levée à 13 heures Se levanta la sesion a las 13 Заседание закрывается в 13. EN ‎دعبهدحاولاةعادلا dalt] as,