Thirteenth plenary meeting
31 October 1978 at 10.05 a.m. President: Mr, SUGANUMA (Japan) later: Mr. LEBLANC (Canada) Treizième séance plénière
1. Le PRESIDENT.- Mesdames et Messieurs, nous poursuivons le débat de politique générale. J'invite le premier orateur de la séance de ce matin, S. Exc. le Dr Carlos Rafael Silva, ministre de l'éducation et chef de la délégation du Venezuela, a prendre la parole.
(2.1) Mr. SILVA (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish): Mr. President, it gives the Venezuelan delegation great pleasure to attend this twentieth session of the General Conference of Unesco. The admirable cultural and scientific tradition of the host country andits constant efforts to defend fundamental human rights, the election of Mr. Napoléon LeBlanc to preside over the session, the breadth of representation of the Member States of the Organization, including the significant presence of nations of the Third World, the skilful and sure management of Unesco's affairs by its Director- General and the interesting agenda prepared for the meeting, these are some of the main reasons for the high hopes which my delegation entertains of this gathering.
(2.2) The agenda contains some topics to which Venezuela has been devoting considerable attention and whose consideration in this forum is a happy coincidence. Among them, the need for Unesco to take action to create a climate of opinion favourable to the gradual establishment of a new international economic order is a matter to which we have given a good deal of thought. Contemporary society is witnessing the emer- gence of a series of sovereign States which aspire to play a more active part in the world economy and in world trade with a view to contributing by their efforts to the creation of new sources of wealth, and which are also calling for the treatment accorded them to be more in harmony with their status as independent countries, wishing to live in dignity and to provide their populations with a higher standard of living both in the material and in the spiritual sense. Such nations, which account for over 75 per cent of the world's population, possess both renewable and non-renewable resources which are essential to the present-day industrial process. No less significant is the fact that some of them have given birth to civilizations to
546    which the world is indebted for a most important part of its cultural heritage. These nations, apart from their natural differences of a political, economic and cultural nature, have been characterized by the solidarity and unity of purpose they have shown in explaining and defending their positions in international forums. Hence people speak of the emergence of a new world force, comprising over 100 countries with common problems and aspirations and known as the Third World which, with good reason, is calling for the establishment of a new international economic order.
(2.3) These proposals to build up a better world clash in practice with the position of inferiority in which the developing countries find themselves, to which is added the aggravating factor that, for reasons that are well known, the poor countries tend to become poorer while the industrialized countries tend to become more powerful every day. This is shown by the constant deterioration in the terms of trade experienced by the developing countries, the persistent deficit in their balance of payments, the weakening of their currencies, their increasing external indebtedness as well as the fall in their per capita income on account of their low production levels and high demographic growth rate, all of which widens the gap separating them from the industrialized world.
(2.4) The new international economic order to which we aspire is based on fundamental principles of equity, failure to observe which can only constitute a failure to observe human rights. The basic criteria for this new economic order are not numerous, and it would suffice for all the nations of the world to respect and honour them for humanity to move forward very swiftly to an era in which equal rights would correspond to equal duties, and in which unrest and uncertainty would be replaced by a confident feeling of well-being based on relations guided by the precept that all should enjoy the benefits which all help to create. It is this which has led us to reject the misleading image of absolute economic indepencence and to embrace instead the doctrine of interdependence, for we are convinced that there neither is nor can be any nation, however large and wealthy, which has no need of other nations for its overall development. The recent energy crisis and the acute scarcity of certain raw materials have revealed the interdependence of the world economy and the need for co-operation on a vast scale.
(2.5) Although there has recently been a growing awareness of the need to improve the lot of the develop- ing countries, the concrete results so far achieved have been slight and uncertainties still exist. It is for example, a matter of concern that the North-South dialogue has not yet made significant headway in any United Nations forum and that genuine agreements on the various topics it embraces have yet to be reached. It has been equally disturbing to note the lack of the necessary determination on the part of the developed countries to set up a new international monetary order to make up for the gap left by the collapse of the Bretton Woods system as a result of which, ever since the sixties and in a more acute form during the seventies, we have been experiencing a period of confusion at the international monetary level characterized, inter alia, by increasingly violent and frequent fluctuations in exchange rates. All of this not only endangers the sustained and ordered growth of the world economy but also tends to have repercussions, of a still more negative nature, on the developing economies in view of the burden laid on them by their economic relations with other countries. Unesco itself can bear witness to the situation I have described with regard to exchange rates, for its internal budgeting has suffered distortions and the contributions of its Member States, in their own currencies, have been subjected to constant alterations, always to the detriment of the weakest economies.
(2.6) 1 should also like to draw attention to the fact that some of the communication media, with their predominantly one-track orientation, encourage unrestrained consumerism, the squandering of our limited resources and the imitation of the consumption patterns prevailing in more developed countries, to the detriment of our internal production and of our balance of payments. Moreover, technological progress in the communications field, by bringing us almost instant information about what is happening in other parts of the world, helps to increase the dissatisfaction of the peoples of the Third World when they see how the standard of living enjoyed by the industrialized countries outstrips the possibilities of the developing economies by a wider margin with every day that passes.
(2.7) A forum such as ours, intended to watch over the interests of education, science and culture at the international level, cannot ignore the effect which this unjust situation is having on our peoples, with the developed countries becoming richer and more technologically advanced day-by-day while the developing economies remain on the outside looking in, lacking the basic means to satisfy their needs and the scientific and technological input which would help to improve their position. Such a state of affairs is not in line with the lofty principles which inspired their founders to create the United Nations and especially Unesco, the latter being the Organization which, through its specific objectives, should work for the advent of a better world.
(2.8) We thus see that there is an urgent need to seek, calmly and intelligently, through the international forums in which the different economies meet, rational solutions capable of rectifying or at any rate alleviat- ing the present unjust situation. This will require thorough preparation covering not only the economic but also the cultural aspect of the problem in the sense that we must inculcate in our peoples an attitude towards life more in accordance with the aspiration to live in harmony and to make progress through mutual effort and co-operation. In this connection, my country is pleased to note that the study on the new international economic order called for in Nairobi has been embodied in the report submitted to us.
(2.9) Work and education are so closely related and are of such importance in the world of today that Venezuela welcomes the inclusion of the related item in the agenda for this session. Unemployment and underemployment figures continue to be high in the majority of the countries represented here. The popu- lation and the labour force have grown, but the job market never keeps pace with the demographic growth rate. Apart from unemployment, there is a shortage of qualified manpower. The proportion of professional and technical workers is low. For the most part, the reforms attempted have not succeeded in overcoming the dichotomy between academic and vocational education. Conventional curricula lack the flexibility needed to make them adaptable to changing manpower requirements. A selective shortage is making itself felt, especially where new jobs are concerned, in the sphere of technology. Work should not be a burden on the individual, as it generally is in countries in which educational programmes are exclusively geared to the boosting of the gross national product, but should encourage the development of the skills and creativity of the worker. One must not, of course, go to the other extreme and draw up educational programmes that have no relevance to the economic development needs of the countries concerned. Education should train the qualified technicians that a country requires, but it should not be forgotten that over-specialization entails distortions which the educational system should seek to correct in the interests of a more rounded image of the individual.
(2.10) As we know, the world of today has been largely shaped by scientific and technological progress. Both science and technology have profoundly transformed all the activities of man and brought about a new way of life. However, it would appear that education is strangely reluctant to make use of their discoveries. Perhaps a profound transformation of the mentality and attitude of teachers is needed, to be brought about within the context of an intensive professional training programme. We know that the generation of the year 2000 has been born, but can the same be said of the school and the educational system of the future?
(2.11) I believe it appropriate at this point to emphasize my country's support and respect for the principles enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Richts. We have demonstrated that support and respect both in our internal policies and, when human rights have been the subject of debate, in the meetings of the competent international and regional organizations - meetings which have sometimes been convened at the instance of our government.
(2.12) Venezuela reaffirms its support for all the projects and activities undertaken to enhance the status of women, to promote full recognition of their rights and to encourage their creative participation in the great tasks of world development. And, when speaking of women, we cannot and must not forget that precious gift of nature, the child, to whose advancement and study the year 1979, as International Year of the Child, will be dedicated. We must make the most of this very special opportunity for serious reflection and intensified activity on behalf of the child, if only because he represents the biological renewal of our species. The immediate future of humanity and hence the success or failure of our projects and programmes will necessarily depend on the action we take on behalf of children, and especially of children who are deprived.
(2.13) It gives me particular satisfaction to state before this gathering that the President of Venezuela, Carlos Andrés Pérez, faithful to his policy of upholding the great principles for which our liberators struggled and of promoting their universal observance, has proposed to Unesco - which has accepted his proposal - the creation of an "International Simén Bolivar Prize" to be awarded to those who have made "an outstanding contribution, in accordance with the spirit of Simén Bolivar, to the freedom, independence and dignity of peoples and to the strengthening of solidarity among nations, or who have fostered their development or facilitated the quest for a new international economic, social and cultural order". The Government of Venezuela has provided Unesco with the necessary financial resources, to be administered by it in accordance with the relevant provisions of its statutes. The interest that will be earned by this money is intended to cover the cost of the Prize - to be awarded every two years - and the expenses of an internatoinal Jury made up of five eminent persons representing the various regions of the world, appointed in a personal and honorary capacity by the Director-General of Unesco, of one eminent person appointed by the Government of Venezuela and of one representative of the Director-General. With this International Simén Bolivar Prize, the Government of Venezuela honours the objectives of Unesco laid down in its Constitution and is also acting in accordance with the objectives set in resolutions 9.1 and 12.1 which were approved by the General Conference at its nineteenth session in Nairobi two years ago. I should like to place on record my country's gratitude to the Director-General and the Executive Board of Unesco for their prompt and enthusiastic response to our President's proposal.
(2.14) Ever since the creation of an International Fund for the Promotion of Culture was first proposed, Venezuela has given the project its most active moral and material support, for we realize how important it is that there should be a body capable of assuming the entire responsibility for the study and financing of national cultural programmes which are in need of Unesco backing, either because they have recieved insuffi- cient official attention or because the country concerned does not have the resources required to undertake them or, in other cases, because they are not of a nature to attract private initiative. We should like to draw the attention of delegates to this Fund and urge them to do everything in their power to strengthen and develop such an important and recent creation of Unesco.
(2.15) I should like to express my country's gratitude at having been chosen for the permanent head- quarters of the Unesco Regional Centre for Higher Education in Latin America and the Caribbean, and to say once again how much we appreciated the Director-General's personal attendance at the inaugural ceremony. We are also delighted that our country should have been chosen for the headquarters of the Institute of Tropical Ecology. The Venezuelan Government takes this opportunity to reiterate its intention of co-operating as fully as possible with the Organization's programmes in all matters relating to the development of regional activities, making appropriate use in this connection of the bodies already established for the purpose. Venezuela is also taking an increasingly active interest in promoting mutual knowledge and relations among the different cultures, as was shown, among other things, by the success of the IVth World Session of the Theatre of the Nations which was held in Caracas last July. This festival, held under the auspices of Unesco and of various Venezuelan cultural bodies, gave us the opportunity to appreciate the wealth of the folklore and other forms of artistic expression of many different peoples.
(2.16) Our educational policy which, ‘as is logical, is based on our socio-economic conditions and on universal principles, also owes a great deal to Unesco's major guidelines concerning democratization, innovation, lifelong education, functional education, autonomous development, the links between education and develop- ment and those between education and work. Venezuela has made serious and substantial efforts to extend and modernize its educational service. Vast and precious resources have been used to attain that objective. Some 4,300,000 students, or approximately one-third of the entire Venezuelan population, are currently enrolled in the country's various teaching establishments. The budget of the Ministry of Education is by far the highest of those allocated to the various executive departments and represents approximately 18 per cent of the overall budget of the central Government, not counting the amounts provided by the States and the town councils for similar purposes. With the aim of increasing vocational education facilities in Venezuela, many centres of higher education have been established, to such an extent that between 1972 and 1978 more higher educational establishments were created than during the entire previous history of the country since it became a Republic. The present Government simultaneously undertook an ambitious programme under which it is proposed to send an estimated total of 15,000 students seeking scientific and technological training to study in leading educational centres abroad. Approximately 9,000 students have so far benefited from this scheme, and some of them have already started to return to Venezuela.
(2.17) In the field of science, we shall be paying special attention to the problems relating to the environ- ment and the preservation of natural resources, the rational exploitation of marine resources and the transfer of scientific and technological information.
(2.18) In the field of culture, our main concern will be the implementation of the recommendations - unani- mously supported by the region - of the first Intergovernmental Conference on Cultural Policies in Latin
548    America and the Caribbean, which was held in Bogota from 10 to 20 January 1978 and in which my country played an active part. We believe it necessary to increase the sectoral budget for those purposes, for it is most unfortunate to be unable to advance from the stage of objectives to that of the implementation of short- and medium-term programmes at the appropriate time.
(2.19) In the field of communication, there is a regional intergovernmental agreement, adopted by the first Intergovernmental Conference on Communication Policies in Latin America and the Caribbean held in Costa Rica in 1976, which reaffirms the principles of freedom of information and calls for a growing sense of responsibility on the part of individuals and bodies engaged in social communication.
(2.20) I shall conclude by reaffirming the faith of the people and the Government of Venezuela in the advantages which humanity derives from the efforts undertaken throughout the world to continue to improve the content of education and extend its benefits to all: the benefits of an education which prepares man for development, promotes economic, social and cultural equality among peoples, encourages mutual tolerance among the various ethnic and religious groups and furthers understanding and peace among nations; which teaches us to appreciate nature increasingly, to preserve it and to make use of its resources in a rational manner; and which prepares man for freedom and coexistence in a world in which there will be neither exploiters nor exploited, neither privileged nor underprivileged. We well know that we are still far from the goal. But we also know that the peoples of the world are moving towards it and that they will not fail to reach it. Thank you.
3. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Venezuela et je donne la parole a S. Exc. Mgr Jean Rupp, archevêque titulaire de Dionisiopoli, observateur permanent auprès du Bureau des Nations Unies et des institutions spécialisées à Genève et représentant extraordinaire du Saint-Siège.
4.1 Mgr RUPP (Saint-Siege).- Monsieur le Président, je suis ému d'assister à nouveau, après 27 ans, à une session de la Conférence générale de 1'Unesco. Celle-ci ne se tient plus comme alors sous ce que Frangois Mauriac appelait, dans son style passionné, "les lambris affreux du Majestic", mais dans un magnifique édi- fice qui modernise et embellit un des plus beaux quartiers de Paris.
4.2 Que de morts depuis la session de 1946 à laquelle j'assistai : Julian Huxley, qui ne refusait pas de dialoguer avec le jeune que j'étais alors, ou plutôt de monologuer devant lui ; Jaime Torres Bodet et René Maheu, amis sincères et brillants. Leur successeur actuel, M. M'Bow, que j'ai l'honneur de connaître personnellement depuis un dîner inoubliable à l'ambassade du Sénégal à Bagdad, a droit à toute la reconnaissance de la délégation du Saint-Siège pour sa remarquable compréhension de ses positions majeures. Plusieurs prêtres aussi sont présents à ma pensée : Angelo Roncalli, futur Jean XXIII, premier observateur officiel du Saint-Siège à l'Unesco ; Jean Maroun, longtemps membre du Conseil exécutif, qui fut criblé de balles alors qu'il se trouvait dans son cher et douloureux Liban. J'avais pu revoir l'an dernier son beau sourire si fin et si amical avant que la mort lui fermât les yeux. Que d'autres on pourrait évoquer ! Mais mon rôle est plus austère et je dois le remplir consciencieusement.
4.3 Au premier rang des dix problémes qui forment le cadre de son Programme a moyen terme, l'Unesco a mis la promotion des droits de l'homme. La place ainsi donnée par l'Organisation à ces droits rejoint le sentiment du Saint-Siège, qui y voit une perspective fondamentale dans laquelle doit s'inscrire l'action de l'Unesco. C'est sur ce sujet que nous ferons porter notre intervention, nous y trouvant aussi encouragés par l'actualité que confère à ce problème le trentième anniversaire de la célèbre Déclaration ainsi que la ratification récente des pactes de 1966.
4.4 Dans un discours prononcé tout récemment devant les membres du corps diplomatique, le pape Jean Paul II a dit, en effet, que l'Eglise considère comme un devoir le respect des droits de chaque nation. Un peu plus loin, il a dit qu'elle doit appuyer la défense des causes humaines. "Les chré- tiens, a-t-il ajouté, ne demandent aucun privilège, mais veulent être admis à participer de plein droit à la vie publique. Le Saint-Siège le fait dans l'intérêt des hommes quels qu'ils soient, sachant que la liberté et le respect de la vie et de la dignité de la personne - qui ne sont jamais des instru- ments - l'égalité de traitement, la conscience professionnelle dans le travail, et la recherche du bien commun, l'esprit de réconciliation, l'ouverture aux valeurs spirituelles sont des exigences fondamen- tales de l'harmonie de la vie sociale, du progrès des citoyens et de la civilisation... Il y a encore trop de misère physique et morale du fait de l'égoïsme, de la cécité et de la dureté des hommes. L'Eglise, dans la mesure où elle est concernée, veut contribuer à atténuer ces misères... En édu- quant le sens moral, par l'action des chrétiens et des hommes de bonne volonté... En faisant cela, elle est fidèle à son maître Jésus-Christ".
4.5 Certes, l'Unesco ne peut agir que dans Ies limites de sa compétence, mais n'est-elle pas la conscience des Nations Unies ? Sa tâche éducative revêt dans ce domaine une valeur exceptionnelle. Elle doit promouvoir l'enseignement des droits de l'homme et ce surtout dans les universités. En le faisant, elle contribue de manière privilégiée à la paix du monde. Il est heureux que l'Unesco ait organisé tout récemment une réunion d'experts sur la réalisation d'une paix fondée sur le respect des droits de l'homme.
4.6 Certes, les peuples d'une extrême pauvreté insistent à juste titre sur le droit qu'ils ont de ne pas mourir de faim, ou plutôt d'exister. L'Eglise espère que les instances internationales ne manque- ront pas de donner à ce problème la priorité à laquelle il a droit. Paul VI l'a rappelé dans sa très célèbre encyclique Populorum Progressio de 1967. La réticence manifestée par certains pays devant la manière dont est parfois posé le problème des droits de l'homme dans les instances internationales est due à la priorité qu'a pour eux le développement. En s'attachant depuis peu au problème des besoins
549    fondamentaux de l'homme, l'Unesco, inscrivant sa réflexion dans le cadre défini par l'Organisation des Nations Unies sur ce sujet, contribue heureusement à cette correction de perspectives.
4.7 Mais pour bien défendre les droits de l'homme, il faut en reconnaître le véritable fondement. La méconnaissance de ce dernier pourrait conduire à relativiser ces droits. Déjà le grand philosophe Wladimir Solowiew, mort en 1900, ironisait sur ceux qui exaltaient par-dessus tout la personne hu- maine, mais pour qui sa réalité n'était qu'un humble phénomène physico-chimique. La Bible et le Coran, admis par la moitié de l'humanité ou presque, donnent à l'homme une origine transcendante, affirmée également par beaucoup d'autres confessions et philosophies. Le huitième psaume interpelle en ces termes le Tout-Puissant : "Qu'est-ce que l'homme pour que tu t'en souviennes !... Tu l'as placé peu au-dessous des anges !". Et Saint Augustin commente ce texte en disant que l'intelligence, fonction toute spirituelle, donne aux fils d'Adam "ressemblance avec le créateur". Sous cette lumière la transcendance de l'homme s'éclaire et ses droits se situent bien au-delà d'un pur droit positif.
4.8 Croyants ou non, tous nous reconnaissons de plus en plus aujourd'hui que la proclamation des droits de l'homme et des libertés fondamentales n'a rien de passager. C'est un fondement bien plus profond de ces droits qui s'affirme quand un grand mouvement s'amplifie contre l'horreur et le caractère dégradant de la torture sans cesse pratiquée de nos jours et d'autres violations de nos droits. Déjà Vatican II, guide spirituel des catholiques d'aujourd'hui, disait, au numéro 27 de la célèbre constitution "Gaudium et Spes" : "Tout ce qui s'oppose a la vie elle-méme,... tout ce qui constitue une violation de l'intégrité de la personne humaine, comme les mutilations, la torture phy- sique ou morale, les contraintes psychologiques, tout ce qui porte offense à la dignité humaine comme les conditions de vie sous-humaines, les emprisonnements arbitraires, les déportations, l'esclavage, la prostitution, le commerce des femmes et des jeunes ou encore les conditions de travail dégradantes... Toutes ces pratiques et d'autres encore sont, en vérité, infâmes"... On pourrait compléter cette liste en mentionnant le racisme, le génocide, les restrictions à la liberté d'expression des opinions - dont le pape Jean Paul II a récemment parlé aux journalistes - l'utilisation abusive de la liberté pour démoraliser les jeunes, les atteintes au droit de vivre des enfants dans le sein de leur mère.
4.9 Mon dernier mot sera sur le caractère social et non individualiste des droits qui nous inté- ressent. La Déclaration universelle de 1948 n'échappe pas entièrement à ce défaut qu'est l'indivi- dualisme. La famille, l'ethnie - même minoritaire - la région, la langue, la culture sont nécessaires à l'homme et leurs droits, qui ont pour corollaire des devoirs, sont sacrés. Je vous remercie de votre attention. Thank you. Spasibo. Gracias. Obrigado. Et, comme tous les catholiques sont maintenant devenus quelque peu Polonais, Dziekuje bardzo.
5. Le PRESIDENT .- Je remercie le représentant extraordinaire du Saint-Siège et je donne la parole à S. Exc. M. Rodrigo Lloreda Caicedo, ministre de l'éducation nationale et chef de la délégation de la Colombie.
(6.1) Mr. LLOREDA CAICEDO (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish): Mr. President, it is a great pleasure for me, on behalf of Colombia and its Constitutional President, Julio-César Turbay Ayala, to congratulate Mr. Napoléon LeBlanc on his election as President of the twentieth session of the General Conference of Unesco.
(6.2) My country has warmly supported the international organizations in their struggle for peace, security and co-operation among peoples. It believes, however, that a stable and lasting peace can only be attained through the establishment of new conditions of life for the large sectors of the population which throughout the world continue to be deprived of the benefits of civilization.
(6.3) We have endeavoured to contribute in the various forums to the strengthening of the fabric of international order so that more effective action may be taken to tackle the complex problems of a restless and disturbed world. We have never failed to respect the principle of the self-determination of peoples, and we unreservedly support the defence of human rights, the promotion of disarmament and the urgent endeavours that are being made to regulate the exploitation of the seas and oceans and of space.
(6.4) We realize, however, that the pursuit of these great aims is hampered in practice by the hurdle, which has so far proved to be insurmountable, of an international economic order which maintains what are still very considerable differences between the comparatively satisfactory standard of living of one-quarter of humanity and the distressing position of the remainder of the inhabitants of the planet. We therefore believe that the struggle for the promotion of human rights and for the elimination of colonialism, racism and apartheid can be waged successfully only if there is a far-reaching cultural and technological transfor- mation - for after all, the phenomena we seek to eliminate are the direct result of the acute contrasts which afflict the world. And it is impossible to correct the effects without tackling the causes. So long as poverty and ignorance are rife, human rights will continue to be trampled under foot and and the weakest countries will be kept in a humiliating position of dependence.
(6.5) The possibility of setting up a new international economic order is linked with many factors, includ- ing in particular the price of raw materials, access to sources of credit, the size of markets and participa- tion in the management of world monetary policy. But the establishment of a new order also involves the education of the population, its access to culture and its ability to assimilate and take advantage of the benefits of science and technology.
(6.6) Unesco thus has an essential part to play in the task of eliminating inequalities and promoting the establishment of a more equitable international order. It is its responsibility to assist countries that wish to expand their educational programmes, this being an immense task in continents such as Latin America where the number of pupils enrolled has doubled in the last ten years and where, in spite of this great effort, the enrolment figures still do not account for all children of an age at which they should be receiving basic education. In the case of Colombia, the impact of the population growth in the sixties has led to the earmarking of 25 per cent of the overall State budget for the educational sector. As of today, however, this effort, combined with that of private bodies, still covers only 80 per cent of the school-age population at primary educational level and 40 per cent at secondary level.
(6.7) This social reality is in contrast with the happy position of the nations which have been enjoying stable population growth rates for years and are therefore not faced with the challenge of increasing the material facilities, human resources and financial means of their educational services in a short space of time. It is also a matter of concern that Unesco, which by its very nature can offer such valuable assist- ance to the less developed world and was intended to do so without discrimination of any kind, should be subjected on occasion to interference of a political nature which endangers its mission. We trust that it will remain faithful to its universal spirit, acting as a rallying point for the peoples and effectively promoting the social aims for which it was created.
(6.8) In this connection we consider it unrealistic to seek total unanimity regarding such complex topics as the role of the mass media. No one denies the importance of that role in shaping public opinion, but it is most unlikely that a complete identity of view can be attained on the subject. Every country, on account of deep-seated traditions or internal conditions, has its own methods which range from absolute State control of the communication media to their almost exclusive management by private enterprise. Between these two extremes, a system combining both methods is to be found in some countries such as my own and many others. In Colombia, the State controls television and makes some use of radio frequencies for cultural and information programmes, but rents broadcasting time in both media to private broadcasting companies. It also guarantees the freedom of the press, on which no political or other restrictions are imposed.
(6.9) The adoption of this model enables us to enjoy a healthy diversity of sources of information. We believe that if the management of the communication media is shared between the State and private bodies this better guarantees the flow of information to which the community is entitled and which it needs in order to to form an objective and comprehensive view of current events.
(6.10) We do not seek to impose any particular model on other nations. We consider that each country, in the framework of its specific conditions, should endeavour tc find a system allowing the public access to timely, truthful and objective information. The right to information is today as important a basic human right as the right to life, health and education. This new right is infringed when a State, for blatantly political reasons, conceals the truth or when a private body exploits scandal, crime or pornography for commercial ends. But the right to information is also violated when the content of information is biased. And this is precisely what occurs at the international level when large information agencies, some State- controlled and others privately owned, overstep the frontiers of their home countries and exert a consider- able influence on the attitudes and values of others and on the moulding of world public opinion. The economic structure and the political aims of these agencies differ, but they all play the same role.
(6.11) It is no easy task to break this virtual monopoly of information enjoyed by the great powers, with their extensive organization, advanced technology and ample economic means. Concerted action aimed at restoring the world information balance is therefore required on the part of the Third World countries. So long as three-quarters of humanity remains silent for lack of the means of expressing itself, it is impossible to speak seriously of a new international economic order.
(6.12) We attach special importance to the strengthening of the scientific and technological capacity of the Third World countries through a world programme which should last for at least ten years and in which provision should be made for a large measure of independent programming and the ample use of local human resources in the co-operation programmes. To reach these goals a fund for scientific and technological development, financed by risk capital mainly provided by the industrialized countries, should be set up. Many developing countries possess institutions fully capable of managing projects of this type. Colombia itself has gained valuable experience from the programmes carried out with the technical co-operation of Unesco and the financial assistance of the United Nations Development Programme in such important fields as educational planning, teacher training, rural organization, the improvement of university education, the promotion of culture and scientific and technological development. The result of these programmes has been the establishment of specialized bodies for the management of international co-operation activities and the increasing use of national experts for the study of key aspects of educational problems.
(6.13) We have set ourselves new objectives: to extend educational television programmes to the whole country, to diversify secondary education and to encourage technical training at the university level. But technical assistance and increased resources are required to attain these goals. It would be absurd if factors bearing no relation to the objectives of this Organization were to hamper activities of this type in various countries in which they are being carried out successfully.
(6.14) Finally, Mr. President, I should like to say on behalf of my country, which practises pluralism in its international relations and whose Government represents the will of the people, how honoured I am to have had the opportunity of addressing this distinguished gathering, and to wish the General Conference every success in its twentieth session. That session is being held at a critical time for a world which is already approaching the threshold of the twenty-first century but has not yet succeeded in establishing durable foundations for coexistence. Thank you.
7. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Colombie et je donne la parole a S. Exc. le profes- seur Ralph Slatyer, ambassadeur, délégué permanent et chef de la délégation de 1'Australie.
8.1 Mr. SLAYTER (Australia): Mr. President, I should like to associate myself with other speakers, in offering warm congrat- ulations to Mr. LeBlanc on his election as President of this twentieth session of the General Conference. I would also like to record my country's appreciation of the untiring efforts and leadership of our distinguished Director-General in his service to the ideals of Unesco throughout the period of his office. It is also a pleasure to join other speakers in welcoming the new Member States of Unesco. It was with great satisfaction that we recorded our vote yesterday in favour of the admission of Namibia as Unesco's newest member.
8.2 All delegations will readily recall that the nineteenth session of the General Conference, in Nairobi, was held in a spirit which sought to enhance areas of common understanding and minimize areas of political difference. My Government's hope is that this Conferenge will witness a consolida- tion and extension of this approach so that our efforts are not diverted by issues on which common accord is not presently achievable. Instead, we hope that our egergies ‘will be concentrated on contributing to those programmes and initiatives which will advance gur mutual collaboration, co- operation and understanding. — _—
8.3 The Director-General has invited us to focus our remarks in this plenary debate on a few matters of crucial world importance which have special relevance to Unesco's competence. I would like to concentrate on several of these matters and then voice some basic considerations concerning the selection of priorities for Unesco's work and the procedures used to achieve these objectives.
8.4 Firstly, Mr. President, I would like to take up the matter of Unesco's contribution to human rights and international understanding. This year we are commemorating the thirtieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This act of commemoration serves to underline the enduring and increasingly important aspiration of the international community to see "the advent of a world in which human beings shall enjoy freedom of speech and belief and freedom from fear and want". Unesco's purpose - to contribute to peace and security and to enhance respect for human rights - gives to our Organization a unique responsibility. No more challenging aim can be found than to see Unesco's activities in education, science, culture and communications contribute to this
13 objective. Australia fully supports the Organization's efforts in this most fundamental constitutional role.
8.5 In this area I should also like to refer to the Draft Declaration on Race and Racial Prejudice. There can be no doubt that the issues of race and racial discrimination are amongst the most crucial which face us today. Australia's record of opposition to discrimination based on race is clear and firmly established and derives from a deeply held belief in the fundamental equality of human rights for all mankind. At the intergovernmental meeting held in Paris last March, Australia played an active and, I believe, a constructive role in helping to bring the text currently before the General Conference to its present stage.
8.6 While there may still be room for improvement to resolve residual difficulties, not, let me say, related to the essential thrust of the Declaration, my Government sincerely hopes that it will be possible to finalize. a text at this session which could be adopted with the largest possible measure of agreement, if not unanimously. Such an achievement would represent a most important advance in the work of our Organization.
8.7 I would now like to turn to Unesco's role in the new international economic order, the search for different and more equitable economic relations between countries, which has become of increasing importance to all of us.
8.8 World-wide economic issues have been, and continue to be, a major preoccupation for govern- ments and intergovernmental organizations, and Australia has been actively involved in the discussions and negotiations on issues related to new international economic arrangements. However, in common with many other countries, we are by no means satisfied that sufficient progress has been made to date, and we have taken due note of the sober emphasis given to this matter by the United Nations General Assembly which stressed in resolution 32/174 that "the negotiations conducted so far on the establishment of the new international economic order have produced only limited results".
8.9 It is clear that failure to achieve progress to the extent that many nations have desired has resulted from a combination of factors including lower levels of national economic activity, the complex- ity of the issues themselves, as well as problems of political will. In particular, the world-wide downturn in levels of economic activity continues to place severe constraints on the ability of govern- ments to respond adequately to the needs of the community of nations and of international bodies such as Unesco, which face increasing difficulties in meeting their constitutional responsibilities. In such difficult circumstances, the ordering of priorities at all levels, so as to maximize impact, assumes crucial importance.
8.10 As far as Unesco itself is concerned, we hope that, in the debates during the coming weeks, an effective programme on the new international economic order will be approved - one which avoids overlap with that of other United Nations bodies, and which emphasizes the special contributions which Unesco can make. In particular, these should draw on Unesco's expertise in areas closely related to economic development, including, of course, education, science, technology and communica- tions, and should seek to identify underlying factors, both endogenous and exogenous, which tend to retard economic development even when the physical conditions for such development appear to exist.
8.11 The Director-General has asked for comments on the role Unesco should play in the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development (UNCSTD), and in the activities which follow that important meeting. We are pleased to respond to this request, Mr. President, since we are conscious of the role science and technology has played in our own development, and we hope that some of the lessons we have learnt may be of value to others. We shall continue willingly to share our experience, when it is thought by other countries to be of help to them in their work of strengthening their scientific and technological capabilities and their production systems.
8.12 One of the hard lessons we have learnt is that the successful importation of technology is no simple process. It requires a scientific and technical infrastructure at different levels in the com- munity. Australia's experience emphasizes the importance in the first instance of providing trained technicians, tradesmen and craftsmen to develop and maintain products and processes. To concen- trate on producing scientists and technologists without such a support base inhibits the role which science and technology can play in development.
8.13 Australia's experience shows that the application of science and technology is only a part of the development process. Developing or acquiring the requisite technology does not ensure its implementation. Many other factors are important in providing the necessary stimulus for generation and adoption of technological innovation. In our experience, the direct and personal involvement of scientists and technologists has been essential in the acquisition and adaptation of foreign technology. We have found that indirect, non-personal, contact has been inadequate for this purpose.
8.14 As far as Unesco is concerned, we would expect the Organization to play a major role among United Nations agencies. Moreover, its wide experience in the subject matter of the conference should be used to influence the overall programme by which the work of the various United Nations agencies, concerned with follow-up to the conference, can be effectively conducted, to achieve maximum effectiveness with minimum overlap. In addition, we would hope that Unesco would insist that, in applying science and technology to development, the overall social, political and economic characteristics of various countries must be borne in mind. In this way development will be harmon-
554   ized with national goals and will be pursued in a way that is appropriate to the individual countries concerned.
8.15 I would now like to turn to the question of the mass media, a matter which concerns all of us and on which such a variety of views is held by the world community. First, Mr. President, let me say that my Government has welcomed the interim report of the MacBride Commission. It represents an attempt to view communications in their totality and to present, in objective and non-emotive terms, the range of points of view which exists. We consider that the Commission has succeeded in drawing to our attention the extent to which communication enters the lives of all of us. It sketches the structures on which communication is based, from traditional communication to communication on a planetary scale, and the agencies which are involved, from individuals to transnational corporations.
8.16 We hope to draw the attention of the Commission to several matters which we consider might further improve the final document, but none the less we see the report as providing a framework for a wide-ranging, yet penetrating, discussion of communication problems. We will listen with interest to the remarks made about the report by other speakers in this debate.
8.17 We hope that the interim report helps to put the draft Declaration on the mass media in a context where our concern about it can be better understood by some other countries. It is because of the wide spectrum of views about the role of the mass media, and because some of these views are linked closely with the divergent ideologies that exist in the world community, that we must confess to having doubts as to whether a draft which is capable of commanding widespread acceptance is yet within our reach.
8.18 In saying this, I would not wish it to be thought that my delegation is unappreciative of the strenuous efforts which have been made by the Director-General and others in seeking to carry out the mandate of the nineteenth session of the General Conference. Nor do our reservations imply that we are unsympathetic to the needs of developing countries in strengthening their communications systems. We remain ready to assist where we can in this field. This is an indispensable element of Unesco's work and one that is assuming a heightened importance in the modern world. Such activity should engage the attention and support of us all. My delegation can see particular possibilities for making progress on a regional basis, and would commend this approach to the attention of Member States.
8.19 For Australia, a basic problem, Mr. President, is that while we can sympathize with countries that consider their cultural identity and their economic and social development are adversely affected by exogenous media sources, we reject the notion of government control of the media. The individual's right to receive and impart information, enshrined in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, is central to this proposition. This principle is fundamental to the social and political structure of our democracy and it is one that our Government is bound to uphold. For us this must be one measure against which we assess the content of the draft Declaration.
8.20 If, despite our doubts, the General Conference decides to adopt some form of declaration, we would like to press for the present draft to be amended so that our basic concerns, and those of other countries, are overcome.
8.21 We endorse fully the remarks of the Director-General in his introductory statement to the general policy debate on 26 October, to the effect that a Declaration would have the necessary moral authority only if the final wording rallied the support of all countries. Unesco's goals are to empha- size the common ground of mankind, the bonds that hold us together, not the factors that tend to separate us. By all means let us recognize and identify these factors, but let us work towards the middle ground where we can all agree.
8.22 I would like to conclude, Mr. President, by raising some matters about Unesco itself which concern us all. Basically, I am addressing myself to the reality that Unesco's resources are not large by international standards, whereas the demands which we Member States make on these re- sources, in terms of our expectations, are so great that the resources are spread very thinly. Our concern is that in some areas of its programmes, Unesco's resources are spread so thinly that effec- tive programme delivery is not being achieved. When and where this occurs everyone is the loser: the groups for whom the programmes have been designed are conscious that they have not been successful, the degree of interest and the involvement of the participants in the programme is re- duced and Unesco's reputation suffers.
8.23 Consequently, Mr. President, we think that it is important for this General Conference to address itself to the overall question of Unesco's programme in terms of formulation of the programme itself, the manner in which it is presented for debate and approval, the procedures used for its execution, and the degree to which the progress of individual projects is monitored and their ultimate effectiveness evaluated.
8.24 In our view it is only if all four ofthese elements are tackled with thoroughness and objec- tivity that Unesco's programme as a whole will have the impact on the world community, and on us, the individual Member States, which we all desire.
8.25 Australia has therefore been pleased to see the continuing progress by the Director-General - and the Executive Board - in refining the approach to these four aspects - formulation, presentation, execution and evaluation - and in translating the C/4 Medium-Term Plan into practical programmes. The reshaping of the C/5 programme document is also a welcome step in the direction of more effective presentation.
8.26 But in our opinion, Mr. President, there is still a long way to go. The presentation of 20 C/5 by sectors, rather than by objectives, shows. this all too clearly. The programme is still, to an unfortunate extent, dominated by the sectoral structure of the Organization, which militates against the implementation of the type of interdisciplinary programmes that are needed, to an increasing degree, to achieve Unesco's objectives. Consequently, we hope that the reforms initiated in 20 C/5 will be carried to their logical conclusion in 21 C/5 and that the Director-General, with the support of the Executive Board, will move still further towards developing a more appropriate organizational structure.
8.27 Because we are concerned about these matters in Australia, our National Commission is studying the whole question of programme effectiveness and considering ways in which we can contribute to it. We have been pleased to learn that other countries are also giving attention to these matters.
8.28 We believe that expertise for the development of better programmés is available in our Member States and their National Commissions, in appropriate professional organizations and in the Unesco Secretariat. We also believe that over the past 30 years a great deal has been learned about which programmes have been relatively successful and which have been relatively unsuccessful. The challenge for the future is to incorporate the ingredients for success, and to deliberately exclude features which have mitigated against programme effectiveness.
8.29 In our view, programmes need to be clearly formulated around stated meaningful objectives within Unesco's sphere of competence. They need to be of finite duration and be subjected to careful evaluation in terms of their effectiveness. In addition, the programmes must be seen to be significant - both in size and impact. They should complement and not duplicate other national and international programmes. We think that programme concentration is required, leaving to others those activities which are on the fringe of Unesco's mandate, but are principal responsibilities of other organizations.
8.30 We have a preference for programme delivery through’ regional centres utilizing, where possible, existing recognized centres of excellence and relevant professional and technical organizations. To this end we see further decentralization of Unesco activities and the development of regional networks as important. We also agree with the view expressed by the Director-General in his address at the opening of the 105th session of the Executive Board that Unesco should draw on the expertise of non-governmental organizations whenever appropriate.
8.31 Mr. President, these remarks have been made sincerely in the spirit of improving Unesco's performance in the world community. Australia has no easy solution to these issues. But we are sure that even more effective use can be made of Unesco's resources and we think all Member States should work towards this goal.
8.32 In conclusion, Mr. President, I would like to reaffirm Australia's strong commitment to the ideals and work of Unesco. We shall not spare our efforts in seeking to contribute, together with other nations, to the advancement of Unesco's aims. My delegation participates in this session of the General Conference with the objective of seeking unity, consensus and understanding on the import- ant matters on our agenda. Thank you, Mr. President.
9. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de l'Australie et je donne la parole à S. Exc. M. Jean Boniface Assele, ministre de l'éducation nationale, de la jeunesse, des sports et des loisirs, prési- dent de la Commission nationale pour l'Unesco et chef de la délégation du Gabon.
10.1 M. ASSELE (Gabon).- Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi tout d'abord, avant d'entrer dans le vif de mon propos, de joindre ma voix à celles des très distingués délégués qui m'ont précédé pour adresser à M. Napo- léon LeBlanc ces chaleureuses félicitations de la délégation gabonaise, que j'ai l'honneur de conduire, pour sa brillante élection à la présidence de la vingtième session de la Conférence générale. Je suis persuadé que, sous sa haute direction, des solutions heureuses seront trouvées aux problèmes qui nous sont posés ici. Qu'il soit assuré de la plus loyale collaboration de la délégation gabonaise.
10.2 Qu'il me soit également permis, Monsieur le Président, de rendre hommage aux membres du Conseil exécutif qui ont préparé nos travaux avec un soin tout particulier et qui ont aidé de leurs conseils le Directeur général de notre Organisation dans la lourde tâche qui est la sienne et qu'il a à coeur d'assumer pleinement.
10.3 Dans le cadre du débat de politique générale, il me paraît essentiel, Monsieur le Président, que nous nous interrogions sur le rôle et l'action de notre Organisation dans la solution des grands problèmes qu'affronte l'humanité.
10.4 Ces grands problèmes, Monsieur le Président, tournent, nous semble-t-il, autour de la paix et de la concorde internationales ; paix qui conditionne le développement des pays en voie de cons- truction que nous sommes. C'est pourquoi nous tenons à dire dès maintenant combien nous appré- Sens les efforts que l'Unesco a déployés pour contribuer, dans son domaine de compétence, à leur solution.
10.5 On sait que cette Organisation, a laquelle nous sommes fiers d'appartenir, s'est préoccupée dès son origine de ce fléau majeur qui constitue à nos yeux la honte de l'humanité, celui de la discrimi- nation raciale et des préjugés raciaux.
10.6 C'est à l'élimination de ce fléau que vise la Décennie de la lutte contre le racisme et la discri- mination raciale, qui a commencé en 1973 et à laquelle nous devons notamment les conférences de Maputo et de Lagos en 1977, et plus récemment encore la réunion de représentants de gouvernements chargés d'élaborer un projet de déclaration sur la race et les préjugés raciaux, qui s'est tenue du 13 au 20 mars 1978 et à laquelle le Directeur général a fait longuement référence dans son introduction au débat de politique générale.
10.7 La délégation gabonaise appuie sans réserve le projet de déclaration qui nous est soumis sous la cote 20 C/18. C'est dans cette perspective que le gouvernement du Gabon a relevé l'importance du rôle de l'enseignement dans la solution de ce problème et souscrit à la recommandation internationale par laquelle des gouvernements ont été instamment invités à établir des programmes scolaires et autres qui permettent de dénoncer les mythes de toutes théories philosophiques, idées et pratiques fondées sur les distinctions de race, de couleur, d'ascendance, d'origine, de nationalité ou d'ethnie.
10.8 Pour ma part, je puis vous assurer, Monsieur le Président, que la République gabonaise a décidé d'inclure dans ses programmes d'enseignement non seulement les mesures prises par les Nations Unies pour lutter contre le racisme et les préjugés raciaux, mais aussi tous les éléments susceptibles de permettre de mieux comprendre et de mieux connaître les autres peuples.
10.9 Nous sommes convaincus, Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, que l'existence d'un tel enseignement à tous les niveaux du système éducatif est une contribution essentielle au dialogue positif que nous recherchons entre les nations, entre les peuples, car la diversité des cultures est une richesse incontestable de l'humanité tout entière.
10.10 Nous ne doutons pas, Monsieur le Président, que l'Unesco saura nous apporter son concours dans la poursuite de cet objectif, qui est également celui des pays du monde où des milliers de personnes sont quotidiennement blessées dans leur dignité d'êtres humains. Pour se convaincre de l'importance de cette action, il suffit de lire dans les manuels ou les périodiques, de voir sur les moyens audiovisuels ou d'entendre dans les conversations, la présentation que l'on y donne systéma- tiquement de certains pays, de certains peuples, et qui, assimilée par des personnes non averties, est tenue, hélas, pour vérité objective.
10.11 C'est pourquoi nous appuyons fermement l'idée d'une Déclaration sur les principes fondamen- taux concernant la contribution des organes d'information au renforcement de la paix et de la com- préhension internationale et à la lutte contre la propagande belliciste, le racisme et l'apartheid.
10.12 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, il ne fait aucun doute que l'action de la commu- nauté internationale en général, dans le cadre du système des Nations Unies, celle des pays membres du mouvement des non alignés et des pays membres de l'Organisation de l'Unité africaine en parti- culier, sera déterminante pour amener les régimes racistes minoritaires d'Afrique australe à com- prendre que leur seule possibilité de survie à long terme, réside dans un dialogue constructif et permanent avec la population noire autochtone - dont il convient de reconnaître le fait majoritaire -, et non point dans la création d'un arsenal nucléaire.
10.13 C'est dans cette perspective et dans celle du développement de nos pays que nous situons le rôle de l'Unesco en vue de la création d'une opinion internationale favorable à l'arrêt de la course aux armements et au passage au désarmement général et complet. Cette action, de l'Unesco en par- ticulier et du système des Nations Unies en général, nous paraît indispensable si l'on veut arrêter la course aux armements dans laquelle nombre de pays, y compris ceux dont nous dénoncerons le régime d'oppression, engloutissent de fortes sommes qui seraient mieux employées à l'amélioration des conditions de vie de leurs peuples et des pays en développement.
10.14 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, si les droits de l'homme, pour lesquels nous militons au sein de l'Unesco en particulier, ont marqué quelques progrès au cours de ces deux dernières années, il est regrettable qu'il n'en aille pas de même en ce qui concerne la liberté de pensée, de conscience et de religion ; je veux parler des aspects confessionnels des conflits, tout particulièrement dans une région qui nous est proche spirituellement, le Moyen-Orient. Il y a lieu de déplorer, en effet, les difficultés qui se dressent encore sur le chemin de cette paix pourtant indis- pensable au développement de la région, et cela au moment même où de multiples efforts, que nous appuyons, tendent à la ramener dans cette partie du monde, berceau de grandes civilisations.
10.15 Il convient de se faire à l'idée qu'aucun peuple ne peut vivre renfermé sur lui-même et que "le dialogue des nations", pour reprendre ici le titre d'un ouvrage récent du Président de la Répu- blique gabonaise, que nous recherchons dans le cadre du dialogue nord-sud, passe forcément et avant tout par un dialogue constructif et positif au sein d'une même nation. C'est dans cette optique que le Gabon est disposé à appuyer toute initiative tendant à ramener la paix au Moyen-Orient.
10.16 Nous ne pouvons, en tant que membre de l'Unesco, que faire nôtre le principe universel de la préservation du patrimoine culturel des peuples. C'est pourquoi, nous nous préoccupons du sort du patrimoine situé dans les territoires arabes occupés ; car, à notre avis, la culture n'est pas seule- ment l'ensemble des formes par lesquelles s'exprime le génie créateur des peuples, mais aussi et surtout une conception de la vie qui règle les rapports de ces peuples avec la nature et avec les autres peuples. C'est pourquoi, nous appuyons fermement toute action de notre Organisation pour protéger et sauvegarder les monuments historiques et religieux liés aux traditions culturelles des grandes régions du monde. C'est dans cet ordre d'idées que nous prônons la reconnaissance et le respect par Israël du caractère arabe de Jérusalem-Est.
13 10.17 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, la paix, nous le disions tout a l'heure, condi- tionne l'avenir de l'humanité. L'une des conditions essentielles de cette paix est, sans conteste, le développement harmonieux de toutes les populations de la planète, développement qui ne peut se concevoir que dans le cadre du "dialogue des nations", en vue de l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international plus juste et plus fraternel.
10.18 Je voudrais réaffirmer à cet effet l'attachement de mon pays aux justes revendications des trois quarts de la population de la planète, face aux pays industrialisés. En effet, quand on constate le manque d'esprit de conciliation de nombreux pays développés dans les négociations en cours, l'on est en droit de se demander s'ils recherchent quoique ce soit d'autre que leur intérêt, en dépit de multiples déclarations de bonnes intentions qui pourraient laisser croire en un désir réel de contri- buer à l'essor des peupies démunis.
10.19 Le nouvel ordre économique international, conçu comme la condition "sine qua non” d'une coexistence pacifique de longue durée entre les nations, implique forcément un bouleversement total de la mentalité des pays développés pour les amener à accepter que les pays en développement passent d'un statut d'assistés à celui de partenaires à part entière.
10.20 C'est également pour cette raison, d'ailleurs, que nous appuyons l'idée d'une déclaration sur la contribution des organes d'information au renforcement de la compréhension internationale.
10.21 L'exode des compétences - ce mal dont souffrent les pays en développement que nous sommes - se traduit en fait par la participation de nos savants et de nos techniciens à l'essor écono- mique, scientifique et culturel de nombreux pays industrialisés. Une telle participation prouverait, s'il en était besoin, que nos pays sont à même de jouer pleinement un rôle de partenaires égaux, dès lors que leurs moyens le leur permettent.
10.22 Parmi ces moyens, il y a lieu de citer en bonne place le transfert des technologies et il ne fait point de doute que l'Unesco peut contribuer’, et contribue efficacement, à atteindre cet objectif, ainsi qu'on peut le constater à la lecture du rapport du Directeur général sur la mise en oeuvre de la résolution 19 C/9.1.
10.23 Qu'il me soit permis d'insister ici sur la contribution concrète que l'Unesco apporte à la mise en place dans les Etats membres des infrastructures de recherche scientifique, contribution que vient compléter un appui intellectuel.
10.24 Ma délégation insiste sur la nécessité de mettre en place des systèmes de formation scienti- fique et technique _.au niveau des technologies intermédiaires, démarche qui devra tenir compte de la nécessité d'adapter l'acquis technologique aux conditions locales.
10.25 En effet, la transposition pure et simple d'une technologie donnée d'un pays à un autre, sans que soient prises en compte les caractéristiques particulières de chacun d'entre eux, risque d'avoir des conséquences plus négatives que positives ; la technologie, au contraire de la science pure et de la recherche fondamentale, qui sont universelles, est étroitement liée à la fois aux situations parti- culières des pays et à la culture des hommes quil'utilisent.
10.26 Il importe, donc, de tout mettre en oeuvre pour que les informations techniques circulent librement entre les nations.
10.27 Il existe par ailleurs plusieurs organisations non gouvernementales qui s'occupent de promou- voir la science en tant qu'instrument du développement. Nous souhaitons vivement que l'Unesco fournisse des informations plus nombreuses sur ces organisations afin de susciter et de faciliter l'adhésion des Etats membres à celles-ci.
10.28 Dans ce domaine, nous appuyons fermement les efforts de l'Unesco dont l'action sortira, j'en suis sûr, renforcée de la Conférence des Nations Unies sur la science et la technique au service du développement. Cette action, nous le pensons, permettra de réduire le fossé qui se creuse toujours davantage entre les pays développés et ceux en voie de développement.
10.29 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, la participation au processus de développement tel que nous venons de l'évoquer, suppose un substrat solide qui ne peut s'acquérir qu'au moyen d'une éducation appropriée. Il s'agit là d'un aspect privilégié de l'action de notre Organisation, aspect qui joue un rôle important dans l'épanouissement de l'être humain appelé à participer effectivement au développement.
10.30 Ma délégation se plaît à constater que la politique de l'Unesco dans ce domaine répond, à juste titre, à deux objectifs essentiels : d'une part, assurer à chacun le droit à l'éducation par l'intégration de l'éducation formelle et informelle dans la perspective de l'éducation permanente ; d'autre part, préparer l'individu à participer au développement, sans aucune discrimination liée notamment au sexe. Cet aspect qualitatif de la question implique une adéquation des objectifs, struc- tures et programmes de l'éducation aux besoins réels de l'économie.
10.31 Le Gabon souscrit pleinement à ces deux objectifs qu'il poursuit d'ailleurs, avec l'assistance de l'Unesco, depuis plusieurs années.
10.32 Notre action dans ces domaines répond à la nécessité de trouver des solutions qui tiennent compte du coût élevé de l'éducation et qui permettent de rendre plus efficace les efforts consentis
558     actuellement par le pays. Je souligne, a titre d'information, que la scolarisation est assurée a 100 % au Gabon et que tout Gabonais bénéficie sans aucune discrimination d'une bourse de 1'Etat pendant toute la durée de sa formation, c'est-à-dire, jusqu'à son entrée effective dans la vie active. Pour répondre à cet impératif de planification de l'éducation, le Gabon a entrepris, avec le concours de l'Unesco, de la Banque mondiale et du Programme des Nations Unies pour le développement, de mettre en place une commission nationale pour la réforme et la rénovation du système éducatif.
10.33 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, le temps ne nous permet pas de développer ici dans le détail nombre de questions intéressant profondément notre Organisation et qui sont étroite- mentliées entre elles.
10.34 Comme le montre notre ordre du jour, nous aurons à nous prononcer une fois de plus sur des points qui préoccupent l'humanité depuis de nombreuses années, et à définir dans quelle mesure la science, la culture, l'éducation et la communication peuvent contribuer efficacement à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international plus équitable.
10.35 Ce n'est que par un patient travail de réflexion et en témoignant d'un sens du compromis indispensable à un dialogue authentique entre les nations que nous résoudrons heureusement les problèmes qui se posent à la présente session. Puissions-nous donc oeuvrer tous ensemble avec le souci constant de faire progresser l'Unesco et tous les Etats membres sur la voie du dialogue, de la tolérance et de la paix que prône, au demeurant, le Parti démocratique gabonais, guide spirituel de la nation à laquelle j'ai l'honneur d'appartenir. Ma délégation est prête, pour sa part, à vous appor- ter son concours pour atteindre cet objectif. Je vous remercie.
11. Le PRESIDENT .- Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Gabon. (M. LeBlanc prend la présidence) ORGANIZATION OF THE WORK OF THE SESSION (continued)/ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX DE LA SESSION (suite)/ORGANIZACHON DE LOS TRABAJOS DE LA REUNION (continuacién)/ ОРГАНИЗАЦИЯ РАБОТЫ СЕССИИ /продолжение/ (eb) ‎ةماعلاةدهايسلاةدتقااتم
12.1 Le PRESIDENT.- Mesdames, Messieurs, permettez-moi de vous faire rapport sur les décisions prises ce matin par le Bureau de la Conférence générale. Le Bureau a en effet décidé de renvoyer au Groupe de rédac- tion et de négociation, sur demande de la Commission V, chargée des questions générales du pro- gramme, le point 17 de l'ordre du jour - Coopération culturelle et scientifique sur la base de 1'égalité et de l'intérét mutuel en tant que facteur important du renforcement de la paix, de l'amitié et de la coopération entre les peuples.
12.2 En prenant cette décision, le Bureau a étudié attentivement la question des conditions dans lesquelles le Groupe de rédaction et de négociation doit étre saisi des points qui lui sont renvoyés conformément aux dispositions du paragraphe 18.4 du document 20 C/2 relatif a l'organisation des travaux de la présente session de la Conférence générale, document approuvé à l'unanimité par la Conférence à sa quatrième séance plénière. Le Bureau a exprimé le voeu que les présidents des commissions et comités de la Conférence n'interprétent pas de maniére trop restrictive l'article 76 du Règlement intérieur relatif à la clôture du débat, en particulier lorsqu'il s'agit de points susceptibles d'être déférés au Groupe de rédaction et de négociation. Il les a invités à faire appel aux partici- pants pour qu'une demande de clôture n'intervienne, en pareil cas, qu'après que le débat a eu lieu, c'est-à-dire après qu'un large échange de vues s'est produit, cela afin de permettre au Groupe de rédaction et de négociation de disposer de bases suffisantes pour pouvoir exercer le mandat, qui lui est confié au paragraphe 18.2 du document 20 C/2.
12.3 Je vous remercie, et je vous prierais de transmettre ce voeu à vos représentants au sein des commissions. (M. Suganuma (Japon) reprend la présidence) GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)/DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)/DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)/OBCYXIEHHE 30170003 05527 IMOJIUHTHKH /nponomxenue/ (eE) 391 JLS ‎يظن
13. Le PRESIDENT.- ‚ Je donne la parole à l'orateur suivant, S. Exc. M. O. Tammur, ministre de l'éducation, de la Science et de la culture, chef de la délégation de la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guinée.
14.1 Mr. TAMMUR (Papua New Guinea): Mr. President, I wish to join previous speakers in congratulating, Mr. Napoléon LeBlanc, on his election to the high office which he now occupies. My delegation is confident that under his able leadership and guidance, this twentieth session of the General Conference will be a successful and fruitful one. I should also like to take this opportunity to congratulate his predecessor, The
13 Honourable Taaitta Toweett, Minister of Education of Kenya, for the most excellent manner in which he performed his duties during the last session of the General Conference. In addition, I wish to express my great appreciation for the very considerable help that we have received from the Director- General during the short time we have been a member nation, and to thank the staff of the Secretariat for all the help we have received since arriving in Paris. Finally, I would like to thank the Chairman and members of the Executive Board for their strong interest in our Pacific Island nations, and for their encouragement during our sometimes difficult process of development.
14.2 Mr. President, I would like to say, on behalf of my country, that we are greatly honoured to attend this General Conference. Although we became members of Unesco during the nineteenth session, it has taken some time for us to become properly involved in the affairs of the Organization; having reached that degree of involvement, we are proud to be here today.
14.3 Permit me, Mr. President, to highlight certain issues which, in view of its situation as a developing country in the South Pacific region, are of particular importance and interest to Papua New Guinea. As you know, we have been an independent nation for only three years, but during that short period we have achieved a great deal. We do not intend, however, to rest on our laurels, and we have come to this Conference with a definite and twofold purpose in mind.
14.4 In the first place, as the largest Third World country in the South Pacific region, we believe that it is our duty to participate in, and to contribute to Unesco's presence in that region to the fullest extent in our power.
14.5 Secondly, as a newly independent nation, and as a developing country, we believe that it is our duty to our people to call upon the facilities and expertise available through Unesco in order to obtain the greatest benefit from its present and future programmes.
14.6 Mr. President, the expression of culture gives meaning to the life of mankind. In the South Pacific we have a number of very rich cultures: in which, notwithstanding certain differences between them, there is a very strong common element which - for lack of a better term - has been defined as "The Melanesian Way". And it is with the aim of promoting and preserving this cultural heritage that Papua New Guinea, I am proud to say, will in 1980 be the host country for the Third South Pacific Arts Festival, which we expect will be attended by all the nations of the region, numbering about 25. Since most of these nations belong to the Third World, and will therefore find it difficult to bear some of the expenses associated with their attendance at this Festival, we look towards Unesco to provide us, if possible, with some measure of assistance.
14.7 While on the subject of culture, Mr. President, I would like to refer to an extremely important issue, raised only recently by the Director-General. This concerns the call by Unesco on behalf of the Third World nations for the restitution of their valuable and historical cultural objects. I am sure that you will have no difficulty in understanding the extreme importance that we attach to such objects which, in my country, are the physical manifestations of our identity as Pacific Islanders, and as Papua New Guineans in particular. And although they mostly comprise small carved wooden objects or objects made of clay or feathers, they are as precious to us as Notre Dame in Paris, the Cathedral in Cologne, the Colosseum in Rome, the temples of Ancient Greece and the monuments of India, Egypt and Cambodia are to the people of those cities and countries. The fact that they have been taken away from us and are now in the hands of private collectors and museums throughout the world inspires in us the same feelings that the people of France and the people of Egypt, for example, would experience if Notre Dame and the Pyramids had been removed from their native soils and taken to another country.
14.8 On the subject of education, Mr. President, I should like to point out that although our official language and the language of instruction in our schools is English, more than 700 different languages are spoken in my country. This makes the task of teaching, especially in the early years of school, a very difficult one. Obviously, it has not been possible, in a country like ours with a population of only three million to record very many of these languages.
14.9 It is the policy of my Government to link education with training in practical skills and produc- tive work, while at the same time maintaining a high level of academic standards. We do not believe that education is simply a means of gaining access to the formal wage-employment sector which, although it is an important segment of our national economy, is still relatively small and therefore able to absorb only a fraction of our total number of school leavers.
14.10 We obviously need assistance from Unesco and the developed nations, because of the number of projects in the field of educational development and innovation which we have already initiated. These require not only a very high level of competency on the part of teaching and training personnel, which is costly to produce, but also carefully planned research, assessment and monitoring, which require a level of expertise not readily available in my country.
14.11 You will no doubt understand, Mr. President, the importance that we attach to education and training. All the money and resources of the world are of no use whatever unless the people have the knowledge and the skills to utilize them effectively, for their own benefit and for the nation as a whole.
14.12 I will not at this point dwell on these projects individually, but my delegation will bring them to the attention of the various sections of the Secretariat to which they are related. I do however, wish to take this opportunity, on behalf of Papua New Guina, to extend a most heartfelt welcome to
560       the World Bank Project Identification Mission which, with the assistance of Unesco, plans to visit my country early next year.
14.13 We are, moreover, particularly happy to report on the success of the ongoing IIEP project which is concerned with the training of educational administrators. We are also very appreciative of the benefits that have accrued to us in the field of education and communications as a result of the Unesco print shop which was originally established in Goroka but which, for reasons of more effective administration, has now been moved to Port Moresby, our national capital.
14.14 May I also express our appreciation of the valuable work that has already been done by the Unesco consultant on sports and physical education, who arrived in our country last month. He has proved to be a very hard worker and his advice and suggestions have already provided us with considerable benefits. We hope that he will be able to remain with us for a further period of two years, so that we may take the utmost advantage of his expertise and experience.
14.15 Mr. President, my country believes that people are our most valuable resource, and obviously there can be no effective development without effective communications. In this connection, I would like to express our sincere thanks for the valuable services provided by the recent Unesco consultant on communications and information. In one respect, my country is very fortunate in that it possesses one of the most sophisticated and modern telephone communication systems in the world, which provides not only rapid and effective internal communication facilities, even to some of our most remote areas, but also links these areas directly with virtually the whole world. We have also a national airline, Air Nuigini, which provides rapid and safe transportation between all our internal centres, as well as regular international flights to Hong Kong, Japan, the Philippines and Australia; further links to other countries are planned in the future.
14.16 On the other hand, the Oceanic and Pacific nations also have a rich heritage of varied and distinctive traditional communication forms, which require research, documentation and understanding. We have poetry, parables, drum messages, songs and oration, for instance. Comparative analysis of these communication forms and their relationships with "external" non-traditional media both intra- and internationally could provide useful tools for communication strategies designed to promote integral human development.
14.17 Turning now to questions of science and technology, I would like to point out that apart from the obvious need for a proper science curriculum for our schools, colleges and universities to be applied by competent teachers, and notwithstanding our great appreciation of the assistance we have received in this respect, not only from Unesco, but from various voluntary organizations in the United Kingdom, Austria, Canada and Australia, as well as other organizations, in common with other Third World nations, we face a particular problem in connection with scientific and technologically- based development. I refer to the issue of economic development and national productivity on the one hand, and the even more basic issue of freeing mankind from unnecessary drudgery, disease and suffering, on the other.
14.18 Mr. President, many obvious advantages are associated with technologically-based development. However, the process of industrialization, as may be observed in the Western and other industrialized nations, has proved to be a curse as well as a blessing, and has given rise to problems associated with pollution, urban crowding, cultural impoverishment, and the unequal. distribution of benefits between the rich and the poor. I believe, however, that there are new ways in which the countries of the Third World can use their resources to achieve technologically-based development without making the same mistakes, and without suffering the same evils. And in this connection, I would call upon Unesco to spare no efforts in addressing itself to the solution of the problems to which I have referred, so that the resources of the world may indeed by utilized for the betterment of mankind in such a way so as to provide the greatest benefit to the greatest number.
14.19 Mr. President, in Papua New Guina, an official policy of decentralization has led to the establishment of Provincial Governments, which are in some ways similar to the State Governments of other countries. It has been argued that this is an unnecessary process of multiplication, that it leads to fragmentation and inefficiency. We believe, however, that such disadvantages, if they exist, are far outweighed by the benefits of bringing the decision-making process closer to the people concerned. It is well known that large organizations such as Unesco suffer from the problems that beset all bureaucracies. I would therefore like to urge Unesco to consider adopting a policy that would provide a greater degree of decentralization and, on behalf of my country, to affirm that we are willing to do whatever we can to help in the implementation of such a policy.
14.20 Mr. President, I consider it is a great pity that Papua New Guinea is the only Third World country in the Oceanic and South Pacific region to be a full member of Unesco. But of course the question of membership of the Organization is a matter which each individual nation must decide for itself. Nevertheless, my country is very conscious of the benefits that have already accrued to the area as a result of various Unesco programmes, and in this regard we will do whatever we can to encourage the continued and growing involvement of the Organization in its development. And I would therefore like to suggest that at the earliest possible future date, a session of the General Conference be held in our region; and I would be most happy to discuss this question with other delegates who may have some views on the subject. Thank you, Mr. President.
15. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guinée. L'orateur suivant est The Hon. Mr. Louis Tull, ministre de l'éducation, chef de la délégation de la Barbade.
16.1 Mr. TULL (Barbados): Mr. President, may I first add my congratulations to those which my distinguished colleagues have expressed through you to Mr. Napoléon LeBlanc on his election to the high office of President of this twentieth session of the General Conference. Such an honour is richly deserved, and is a fitting recognition of the contribution he has made to education, science and culture internationally during the period of his association with this Organization.
16.2 Secondly, I wish to take this opportunity to congratulate the Director-General on his able administration during the period since our last session, which has been a very significant one for the Organization and its Secretariat. The move to medium-term planning, with its implications of modifications in the manner of programming and budgeting; the need to relate these programmes to the wider goals of the new international economic order; the search for a satisfactory combination of adequate staffing and financial restraint, while at the same time planning for the impending harmoni- zation of Unesco's budgetary cycle with those of other United Nations agencies, these factors have all combined to make the past two years the most exacting in the Organization's life.
16.3 It would be remiss of me if I did not also take this opportunity to congratulate warmly The Honourable Taaitta Toweett for the excellent manner in which he carried out his duties as President of the General Conference, both in Nairobi where his influence pervaded our deliberations and epitomized what has now come to be known as the "spirit of Nairobi", and in the interregnum before he passed his mantle on to Mr. Napoleén LeBlanc.
16.4 Mr. President, in 1976 in Nairobi, this Organization adopted its first Medium-Term Plan, covering the period 1977-1982. At the same time, it recognized that such a plan would require periodic review and possible adjustment to take account both of possible shortcomings in its formula- tion and of the impact of changing international circumstances. The latter may perhaps be of greater importance, in view of the fact that the basic framework for development of the Medium-Term Plan was the new international economic order, and the role of the Organization, within its areas of competence, in contributing to the realization of the objectives of that order. I think that this General Conference, coming as it does at the end of the first biennium of the Medium-Term Plan, provides an ideal opportunity to review the appropriateness of Unesco's actions, and to determine what changes or modifications, if any, should be made to ensure a more significant contribution by Unesco to mankind's search for an equitable society, in which all enjoy entitlement to more than the barest necessities.
16.5 Mr. President, Unesco must be very much in the vanguard of any action aimed at the transfer of resources, which is one of the basic tenets of the new international economic order. It must be recognized, however, that the simple transfer of resources from developed to developing nations will not be a panacea for all the economic ills of the developing countries. There must be, within the latter, a simultaneous transformation of their economies, resulting in their increased capacity and ability to utilize and channel these resources into self-sustaining and reproductive areas of need. The probability of self-reliance will thereby be enhanced, as the developing States move from a position of dependency to a state of dignity.
16.6 The adjustments to the Medium-Term Plan, which have been examined by the Executive Board and are now presented for consideration, provide clear evidence that Unesco accepts this responsibility. They sharpen the focus of the plan on increasing the capacities of the developing countries to receive and adapt technology, and further seek to encourage and highlight the interdisciplinary nature of development processes.
16.7 Mr. President, Unesco's activities during the last two years have been predominantly exercises in adjustment, prompted by serious and deep reflection on the true role of the Organization. There has been increasing sensitivity to the problems and needs of the developing countries which, with some justification, often held the view that the Organization claimed a universal outlook which did not bear close examination. Notwithstanding the pieties of the Constitution, decision-making was largely in the fief of developed countries.
16.8 It is evident from the Director-General's report that the concept of universality has really begun to permeate the Secretariat's work. Much, however, remains to be done. Constant vigilance is required to ensure that what has been achieved by consistent effort will not be cancelled out by inertia and indifference. I submit, Mr. President, that the increasing emphasis on equitable geo- graphical distribution of staff has not only endowed our Organization with wider and richer cultural perceptions, but has also created within it a keener sensitivity to the needs and problems of all the peoples of the world. Nevertheless, equitable geographical distribution requires more than a fairer distribution of staff; for equity in this context has a qualitative as well as a quantitative aspect. The Director-General must ensure that the principle of equitable geographical distribution applies to upper échelon staffing.
16.9 The steps taken towards decentralization of the Secretariat's activities are to be commended, and will enable the Organization to reflect more adequately the diverse characteristics of the peoples of the world. May I therefore take this opportunity to congratulate the Director-General on the setting up of a Regional Office in Jamaica for the English-speaking Caribbean countries, and urge him to expedite action to make this Office fully functional.
16.10 The Director-General's report on Unesco's contribution to the new international economic order, and the Executive Board's subsequent debate thereon, go a long way towards clarifying the lines of action for Unesco. The proposals in the programme constitute an innovative approach to the
562    question of co-operation with the developing countries. The clear conception of economic development as only a part, albeit an important one, of the creation of a wider and transcendent international social environment, and the emphasis on endogenous action, not only take cognizance of resolution 9.1 adopted at the nineteenth session of the General Conference, but also provide a firm basis for Unesco's programmes in the future. To the extent that the programme recognizes the importance of rounded overall development, Unesco can proudly claim to have taken the lead in the family of United Nations agencies.
16.11 Mr. President, in view of the extremely limited budget, I am generally satisfied with the draft programme for the biennium 1979-1980. It reflects both backward and forward linkages and, taken with the proposed adjustment to the Medium-Term Plan which it accommodates, lays stress on the factors which give greater focus to the problems of Member States. The emphasis placed on the social and cultural dimensions of our existence and the promotion of human rights and peace are welcomed. I welcome too the emphasis on science and technology education. For all too long, the developing countries have remained the suppliers of manual and unskilled labour or of raw materials, while technological expertise has remained the privileged prerogative of the industrialized countries. This is also true, Mr. President, of a number of professional disciplines, and my country continues to experience severe difficulty in securing training in the educational institutions of developed countries in such areas as professional accountancy, actuarial science and veterinary medicine. I am certain that Barbados is not unique in this respect, and I strongly recommend that Unesco make available to developing countries the resources for establishing institutions in these areas of study.
16.12 Mr. President, I note that Unesco will be actively involved in the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development (UNCSTD) next year. I trust that the programme in this sector will be adjusted in the light of any decisions or recommendations which may emerge from that Conference. The programmes in the Science Sector of the Programme and Budget are, basically, also satisfactory, but I would emphatically call for more action-oriented projects. Greater stress must also be laid on the strengthening of institutions in the developing countries so that they may be better equipped to carry out their own research. This is a prerequisite to endogenous development.
16.13 Equally meritorious is the programme relating formal education to productive work. There can be no question of the need for developing countries to overhaul their current educational systems, especially those of colonial inheritance, and to transmute them into new systems conceived in terms of the values, needs and priorities of their societies.
16.14 Mr. President, I would specifically mention those programmes which aim at strengthening links between school and out-of-school education, and activities relating to technical and vocational education. These are key factors in the developmental process, and should constitute one of the major thrusts in Unesco's programmes for the remainder of the Medium-Term Plan.
16.15 My Government also welcomes the inclusion of projects concerning research and development of non-traditional sources of energy. For most developing countries, one of the greatest restraints to industrial development, and even to the provision of basic social amenities, is the high cost of energy. When one also recognizes that most traditional sources are non-renewable, the need to develop new forms assumes virtually critical proportions. My Government is keenly interested in research into the development of solar and wind energy, and is ready to undertake a co-operative programme with the regional university and Unesco in this connection.
16.16 Mr. President, my delegation attaches great significance to the programmes for culture and communications. Barbados welcomed the initiative of Unesco in convening the Regional Conference on Cultural Policies in Latin America and the Caribbean which was held in Bogota in January this year. The meeting recognized that there were distinct subregions within the area, each of which required special study and attention. A number of resolutions to this effect were adopted at the meeting, and it is with some concern that I note that the Programme and Budget for the forthcoming biennium does not make adequate provision for their implementation. I strongly urge that careful study be given to ensure that these resolutions are accommodated.
16.17 Mr. President, one of the most controversial items to be discussed at this Conference deals with communications - the Draft Declaration on the Use of Mass Media. We have before us a new text prepared by the Director-General in accordance with the mandate given to him at the nineteenth session of the General Conference. Let us be frank with ourselves. Let us approach this matter with honesty. We have learnt to live in a world where there cannot always be unanimity. We have learnt to respect each other's differences and devise a modus vivendi for our coexistence. Mr. President, I am now calling for that same understanding, that spirit of compromise, that political will which will allow us to bridge the differences which exist and agree on a text with which we all can live.
16.18 There can be no doubt whatsoever about the imbalance of the present flow of information. Not even the most blinkered can deny that the information fed to the developing countries is impreg- nated with prejudices, half-truths, deceit and hypocrisy. We in the Caribbean have taken a modest step to correct this imbalance through the establishment of the Caribbean News Agency (CANA), whose Headquarters are in Barbados, and I wish publicly to acknowledge Unesco's assistance in the creation of this agency. My Government will never countenance any proposal which aims at control- ling the dissemination of information; on the other hand, it will give its support to actions which aim at achieving a more balanced flow and which enhance the role of communications in promoting peace, social justice and human rights.
16.19 Mr. President, I have examined with sympathy the proposals of the Director-General for Unesco's role in generating a climate of public opinion conducive to the halting of the arms race and the transition to disarmament. It is, however, futile to talk piously about disarmament and halting of the arms race without facing up to international and national realities. In this forum, as in many others, we collectively wring our hands and stridently declaim the evils of war. We pass resolution after resolution calling for reduction of arms. We even go as far as to call for total disarmament. We cite the Constitution in support of these resolutions. But even as we do so, many countries at the domestic level are debating larger budgetary provisions for arms and commissioning new studies for developing more sophisticated weapons of destruction.
16.20 Mr. President, how can Unesco launch programmes of education for peace, how can it create a climate for disarmament, when its Member States at the national level are, in varying degrees, devot- ing larger sums of money to the acquisition of arms, when national days become the occasion for the public parade of the latest weaponry, and when militarism is given an aura of glamour? How can Unesco succeed when the media saturate the public - of all ages - with material that glorifies war and makes heroes of warriors? As an Organization, Unesco's efforts must be jeopardized as long as the consciences of nations remain impervious to the resolutions to which they subscribe internationally.
16.21 Mr. President, the time has come when we must seriously examine our real commitment to the halting of the arms race. Let there be here and now a real expression of that political will to which I referred earlier, so that the atmosphere may be created in which the Organization can fulfil its mandate. Let us, as the representatives of sovereign States, seek a positive and significant reduction in this wasteful expenditure whose objective is the destruction of mankind and the inflicting of immeasurable misery. It is a matter for extreme concern when the total budget of the Organization for the next biennium is equal to less than 2% per cent of the total arms sales for the past year of just one member country; indeed, when it is estimated that globally over four hundred billion dollars are spent annually on arms. Is this how we propose to contribute to the new international economic order?
16.22 Mr. President, there has been extensive study and some discussion within the Secretariat and the Executive Board on the concept of "basic needs" and its possible implication for the work of Unesco. I note from the reports of the Chairman of the Executive Board and the Director-General that the general conclusion was "that the practical development strategies advanced on the basis of basic needs present serious inadequacies, and that this restrictive concept cannot be used as a basis for planning and programming the Organization's action for development". My delegation sees the difficulties inherent in the "basic needs". May I pose two fundamental questions? Firstly, in an Organization comprising 145 countries, each more or less at a different stage of development, what common criteria can be established for determining universal basic needs? Secondly, given Unesco's responsibilities for normative action, how can we ensure that any norm relating to basic needs established by this Organization will not become the rule of thumb by which assistance either bilaterally or multilaterally will be determined?
16.23 At all events the implications of such a concept for the implementation of the new international economic order are worrying, and I firmly recommend that the Organization treat it with the greatest circumspection.
16.24 Mr. President, the Government of Barbados has unequivocally championed the cause of human rights in all the international forums. Our Constitution enshrines provisions regarding human rights, and these are honoured to the full. My delegation fully supports Unesco's activities in this sphere, and urges it to continue to bring moral pressure to bear whenever such rights are seriously violated. Programmes of education regarding these fundamental rights must be promoted, and I would again invite all Member States to place no impediment, whether covert or otherwise, in the way of the Organization as it implements its programmes.
16.25 Unesco has a moral commitment to contributing to the total eradication of colonialism, racism and apartheid. This Organization must exert itself in helping to eliminate these evils for ever. The right to self-determination is inalienable. Through its programmes Unesco must provide the oppor- tunity for the countries concerned, especially those in Southern Africa, to prepare themselves for the day when they assume responsibility for their own affairs, by making the necessary training available. Indeed, it must go further and increase its moral pressures on the international community to hasten the process of liberation. For this reason, Mr. President, my delegation gave its fullest support to the proposals before this session of the General Conference for the admission of Namibia and condemns most strongly the continued flagrant disregard by South Africa of the numerous resolu- tions of the United Nations. My Government, despite its limited resources, has already agreed to give assistance in its educational institutions to nationals of Namibia and Zimbabwe.
16.26 Mr. President, I note from our agenda that we will in due course also consider an application for admission of Dominica to membership of the Organization. Barbados will be delighted to welcome Dominica. That country, like Barbados, is a small Caribbean Island, striving through the Caribbean community to build a prosperous society on democratic foundations. Dominica's presence here will enhance this Organization, and I look forward to the day when the remaining countries in our region all assume their rightful places among the community of free, independent nations.
16.27 Mr. President, the work of Unesco over the last few years and at this session reflects the increasing awareness that man is universal; that our common goal must be the use of intellectual development as a tool for building a society based on human dignity, social justice and equity, as
564    well as global economic well-being. That is why Barbados supports the thrust towards the new international economic order. That is why Barbados abhors apartheid, racism and inequality of the sexes. That is why Barbados condemns the arms race and all actions that endanger the pursuit of peace and that is why Barbados fully supports Unesco's activities and programmes and joins other Member States in striving to ensure that through our Organization we create and pass on to future generations a world devoid of the tensions and inequalities which we experience today. Thank you, Mr. President.
17. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Barbade et je donne la parole a S. Exc. M. Wakarerwa, ambassadeur, délégué permanent du Burundi auprès de 1'Unesco et chef de la délégation du Burundi.
18.1 M. WAKARERWA (Burundi).- Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi au nom de ma délégation de féliciter M. Napoléon LeBlanc pour son élection au poste de Président de la vingtième session de la Conférence générale de 1'Unesco. Son expérience, son savoir-faire, sa disponibilité, la vivacité de son intelligence et son esprit de synthèse seront pour notre session d'un concours extrêmement précieux et contribueront à son plein succès, lequel honorera non seulement sa personne, mais également son pays. Il serait superflu de l'assurer de l'appui de ma délégation ; sa réussite sera aussi la nôtre.
18.2 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, qu'il me soit aussi permis de rendre hommage et de dire notre reconnaissance au ministre de l'édu- cation nationale du Kenya qui a conduit avec sagesse et compétence les travaux de la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale. Mes hommages et mes remerciements vont, en outre, au Conseil exécutif et à son président pour avoir si bien conduit avec détermination notre Organisation, lui permettant ainsi de poursuivre sans relâche son action en vue de répondre à l'attente de tous ses membres au cours de l'exercice qui vient de s'écouler. Je m'en voudrais de ne pas remercier et féliciter le Directeur général de l'Unesco, M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow et à travers lui le Secrétariat de notre Organisation pour ses nombreuses réalisations depuis la Conférence de Nairobi et pour la qualité des documents de travail soumis à notre étude au cours de la présente session.
18.3 C'est avec joie que ma délégation accueille les nouveaux Etats qui viennent d'adhérer tout récemment à notre Organisation. Ma délégation approuve et salue le vote massif par lequel la Confé- rence vient d'admettre à l'Unesco la Namibie représentée par le Conseil des Nations Unies pour la Namibie, seule autorité légale administrante, au sein duquel la République du Burundi n'a ménagé aucun effort pour faire avancer la juste cause du peuple namibien. Le peuple et le gouvernement du Burundi rendent un hommage très mérité à la juste lutte que mène le peuple namibien, regroupé au sein de son seul mouvement authentique de libération, la SWAPO.
18.4 Monsieur le Président, la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco tenue en terre africaine à Nairobi, a coïncidé avec un événement très important dans mon pays. En effet, c'est le ler novembre 1976 qu'a vu le jour la Deuxième République. L'action entreprise ce jour s'im- posait en raison de la situation de désarroi national et de faillite des institutions qui régnait dans le pays.
18.5 Le mouvement du ler novembre n'a rien fait d'autre que consacrer l'alliance entre les forces armées et le peuple pour mettre en oeuvre une nouvelle conception du pouvoir et de la société repo- sant sur les principes suivants : lutte contre l'exploitation de l'homme par l'homme ; souveraineté sur les ressources nationales ; ferme volonté de compter sur ses propres forces ; création d'une nouvelle mentalité basée sur l'esprit de justice sociale, de travail et de production ; réhabilitation et revalorisation de la culture nationale ; soutien inébranlable aux mouvements de libération ; coopéra- tion avec toutes les nations du monde qui respectent son identité et ses options fondamentales. Les objectifs fondamentaux du gouvernement issu du Mouvement du ler novembre s'inscrivent donc dans la lutte que mènent depuis quatre ans les Etats membres de l'Organisation des Nations Unies pour l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique et social international.
18.6 Monsieur le Président, les nombreux orateurs qui nous ont précédés à cette tribune ont évoqué d'une manière pertinente et éloquente les multiples problèmes auxquels notre Organisation est confron- tée. Notre contribution risquerait de paraître une répétition. Mais la persistance du colonialisme et des régimes racistes, la permanence d'un système d'exploitation des faibles par les riches, la course effrénée aux armements, la nécessité d'un nouvel ordre mondial de l'information sont des réalités telles qu'aucune excuse ne saurait nous empêcher d'y revenir.
18.7 S'agissant de la contribution de l'Unesco à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique inter- national, la Conférence générale, à sa précédente session, avait fait l'observation fondamentale qu'il convenait de situer cette contribution à trois niveaux, à savoir la promotion d'une réflexion, la diffusion des connaissances et les activités exercées dans les différents domaines de compétence de l'Unesco. Les actions de l'Unesco doivent tendre à aider les Etats membres les moins nantis à créer des conditions favorables à l'affirmation et au respect de l'identité culturelle, au progrès de l'édu- cation à tous les niveaux, au développement et à un meilleur équilibre du processus de communica- tion, ainsi qu'à susciter une évolution vers un ordre du monde qui ne soit plus fondé sur les privi- lèges de certaines sociétés, mais qui permette un plein épanouissement de chaque groupe humain, Selon les voies qu'il se choisit, dans le cadre de relations de justice, d'équité et de solidarité. Nous souhaiterions voir la communauté internationale, et en particulier l'Unesco, accroître son aide aux pays les moins développés dans leur lutte contre la misère, la maladie et l'ignorance.
13 18.8 Le Burundi, pour sa part, est engagé dans un long processus qui doit le conduire a améliorer l'éducation du plus grand nombre grâce à l'accroissement du taux de scolarisation et d'alphabéti- sation. D'ores et déjà, il consacre plus de 22 % de son budget annuel à l'éducation nationale et s'emploie à promouvoir la culture nationale et, par la création d'une presse et d'une radio rurales, à mettre les moyens d'information au service des masses paysannes en vue de leur éducation et de leur promotion. Pour mener à bien ce processus, l'utilisation de la langue nationale à tous les échelons de l'éducation, de l'information et de la diffusion de notre patrimoine culturel est déjà réalisée sur tout le territoire de la République, malgré les maigres ressources dont nous disposons.
18.9 Ayant été longtemps soumis à une domination étrangère, nous sommes plus sensibles aux pro- blèmes de nos frères qui dans le monde plient encore sous la domination étrangère et gémissent sous l'ignoble et anachronique système du racisme et de l'apartheid. Cette situation anachronique, inhu- maine et humiliante pour les millions d'être humains qui la subissent, que ce soit en Afrique du Sud, au Zimbabwe, en Namibie, au Moyen-Orient ou dans d'autres régions de tension en Afrique, constitue un véritable danger pour la paix et la sécurité internationale. Ma délégation regrette amèrement que ceux qui jouissent d'un pouvoir sur les auteurs de ces actions iniques croisent les bras au lieu d'exercer sur eux des pressions, notamment celles qui ont déjà été décidées par l'Organisation des Nations Unies dans les résolutions pertinentes.
18.10 Mon pays, en sa double qualité de membre de l'Unesco et de membre du Conseil des Nations Unies pour la Namibie, appuie sans réserve les programmes proposés pour la Namibie par notre Organisation. Mon pays continuera comme par le passé à s'opposer aux régimes de terreur et d'apar- theid pratiqués par l'Afrique du Sud et par la Rhodésie. L'action que mène l'Unesco depuis sa création et plus particulièrement celle menée depuis la dernière session de la Conférence générale répond à nos aspirations et c'est avec enthousiasme que notre délégation apportera son ferme soutien à l'adoption du projet de déclaration sur la race et les préjugés raciaux, qui pourra, nous l'espérons, s'adresser à l'opinion publique dans le monde entier, servir de document de base pour la définition et l'analyse des situations socio-économiques marquées par des manifestations de racisme ou y con- duisant et constituer un puissant instrument de mobilisation des individus, des organisations et des gouvernements afin qu'ils prennent les mesures sociales et juridiques appropriées en vue d'éliminer les causes et les effets de toutes les formes et de toutes les manifestations du racisme et des préju- gés raciaux. Ma délégation lance un appel pressant à tous ceux qui parmi nous ne sont pas directe- ment concernés par la discrimination raciale et les préjugés raciaux ou qui n'y sont pas sensibilisés pour qu'ils n'érigent pas des barricades de toutes sortes qui risqueraient de légitimer les horreurs du racisme si cette déclaration n'était pas adoptée à l'unanimité par consensus.
18.11 La création d'une opinion publique favorable à l'arrêt de la course aux armements et au pas- sage au désarmement est une question qui préoccupe notre Organisation depuis sa création et plus particulièrement depuis la onzième session de la Conférence générale. Devant la misére qui règne encore dans la majorité des Etats membres, il s'avère nécessaire de réduire les budgets consacrés à la course aux armements pour allouer les sommes ainsi économisées à l'éducation, au développement culturel et à l'épanouissement socio-économique des milliards d'hommes habitant les pays en dévelop- pement. Il ne faut pas que le progrès scientifique et technologique du monde soit employé à la re- cherche des armes destructrices les plus sophistiquées pendant que règnent encore l'ignorance, la maladie et la misère.
18.12 Monsieur le Président, c'est parce qu'il répond aux aspirations légitimes de mon pays que ma délégation promet d'apporter son soutien au projet de déclaration sur les principes fondamentaux concernant la contribution des organes d'information au renforcement de la paix et de la compréhen- sion internationale et à la lutte contre la propagande belliciste, le racisme et l'apartheid. Les organes d'information doivent s'attacher à promouvoir les droits de l'homme notamment en se faisant le porte- parole des peuples en lutte contre le colonialisme, le néo-colonialisme et l'occupation étrangère. Pour ce qui le concerne, le Burundi réserve une place de choix dans ses organes d'information à la lutte contre la domination étrangère, l'agression, le non respect des droits de l'homme et pour le renforce- ment de la paix et de la compréhension internationale.
18.13 Monsieur le Président, après les décisions adoptées à ses sixième et septième sessions extra- ordinaires par l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, après la proclamation de la Charte des droits et des devoirs économiques des Etats, malgré toutes les tentatives visant à établir des relations économiques internationales équitables, force est de constater qu'une minorité de riches continuent de bâtir leur prospérité au détriment des autres peuples accablés par la faim, la maladie, l'ignorance et la misère. Ce déséquilibre se traduit par la lenteur du transfert de technologies des pays développés vers lès moins développés et par l'intrusion de technologirs inadaptées et inhibitrices des capacités créatrices de nos peuples.
18.14 Pour qu'il y ait développement authentique de nos pays, une remise en cause par tous les Etats membres de notre Organisation du système économique mondial s'impose. Cela exige que les pays pauvres optent résolument pour une nouvelle philosophie du développement. Aussi est-ce avec un grand espoir que nous saluons la convocation en 1979 de la Conférence des Nations Unies sur la science et la technique au service du développement, à la préparation de laquelle nous encourageons vivement l'Unesco à apporter sa pleine contribution.
18.15 Monsieur le Président, après avoir évoqué brièvement les principaux problèmes qui tiennent à coeur à notre Organisation, je m'en voudrais de ne pas apporter le soutien de ma délégation à l'en- semble du Projet de programme et de budget soumis à la Conférence pour l'exercice 1979-1980 ainsi qu'au Projet d'ajustements au Plan à moyen terme pour 1977-1982. Ma délégation aura à s'exprimer sur les détails du programme au cours des débats dans les différentes commissions. Je puis cepen-
566        dant vous assurer de notre appui a toutes les initiatives tendant a une plus grande contribution de l'Organisation en faveur des pays les moins développés pour l'établissement d'une plus grande jus- tice, condition de la paix et de la sécurité dans le monde. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
19.1 Le PRESIDENT .- Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Burundi de son intervention. Le débat de politique générale reprendra cet après-midi.
19.2 La séance est levée. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. La séance est levée a 13 heures Se levanta la sesión a las 13 Заседание закрывается в 13.00 رهظلادعبةدحاولاةعاسلاىفةسلجلاتعفر