Fourth plenary meeting
25 October 1978 at/3-10"p.m: President: Mr. LEBLANC (Canada) Quatrième séance plénière
(145) ‎نالبلديسلا:سيئرلا THIRD SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE TROISIEME RAPPORT SUPPLEMENTAIRE DU PRESIDENT DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES POUVOIRS TERCER INFORME COMPLEMENTARIO DEL PRESIDENTE DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION DE PODERES ТРЕТИЙ ДОПОЛНИТЕЛЬНЫЙ ДОКЛАД ПРЕДСЕДАТЕЛЯ КОМИТЕТА ПО ПРОВЕРКЕ MOJHOMOUM!/ Lis YI ge Lspi degue ANN LINA
1. Le PRESIDENT.- Mesdames, Messieurs, je déclare ouverte la quatrième séance plénière de la vingtième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco. J'invite M. Upraity, président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs, à présenter le troisième rapport supplémentaire du Comité.
2.1 Mr. UPRAITY (Nepal), Chairman of the Credentials Committee: Mr. President, your excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, my task is to present the third supplementary report of the Credentials Committee, but before I proceed further I would like to take this opportunity of congratulating you, Mr. President, on your election to this high office. We hope and believe that under your able guidance we shall bring the work of the twentieth session of the General Conference to a very successful conclusion. As far as our own delegation is concerned, I can assure you of our best co-operation.
2.2 Now, Mr. President, in accordance with the authorization given to me by the Committee at its first meeting, I have the honour to submit the following information concerning credentials received by the Director-General since the presentation of my second report.
2.3 Credentials in due form have been received from Albania and Belgium, which had previously submitted provisional credentials. Credentials in due form have been also received from Chad. In accordance with the authorization given to me by the Committee, I propose to the General Conference that the delegations of these Member States be fully admitted to take part in the work of its twentieth session.
2.4 Provisional credentials have been received from Niger. In accordance with the authorization given to me by the Committee, I propose to the General Conference that, subject to later presentation of credentials in due form, the delegation of this Member State be allowed to take part in the work of its twentieth session. Thank you, Mr. President.
3.1 Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs. Vous avez entendu les recom- mandations du Comité. Puis-je considérer que la Conférence les approuve ?
3.2 Les recommandations du Comité sont approuvées. ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE PRESIDEN T/ COMMUNICATION DU PRESIDENT/ COMUNICACION DEL PRESIDENTE/ COOBIEHMA MPENCENATEJA/ ‎سيئرلانايب
4. Le PRESIDENT.- Mesdames et Messieurs, je dois maintenant vous faire part d'une triste nouvelle, celle du déces subit la nuit dernière du délégué permanent de Chypre auprès de 1'Unesco, S. Exc. M. Anastasios G. Leventis. Plusieurs d'entre vous se rappelleront qu'il était encore hier soir parmi nous ; pour rendre hommage à sa mémoire, j'invite les délégués à observer une minute de silence. (L'assemblée observe une minute de silence). INCLUSION OF NEW ITEMS IN THE AGENDA/INSCRIPTION DE NOUVEAUX POINTS A L'ORDRE DU JOUR/INSCRIPCION DE NUEVOS PUNTOS EN EL ORDEN DEL DIA/ ВКЛЮЧЕНИЕ НОВЫХ ПУНКТОВ В ПОВЕСТКУ ДНЯ/ ‏!JLلودجىفةديدجدونبجاردا
5.1 Le PRESIDENT.- Avant d'aborder le principal point à l'ordre du jour du début de cette session, je voudrais vous informer qu'à sa séance de ce matin, le Bureau a recommandé à la Conférence générale d'inscrire trois nouvelles questions à l'ordre du jour.
5.2 J'invite le Secrétaire à vous donner lecture de l'article 14, paragraphe 2, du Règlement inté- rieur, qui porte sur l'inscription à l'ordre du jour de nouvelles questions.
6. Le SECRETAIRE.- Merci, Monsieur le Président. L'article 14, paragraphe 2, se lit comme suit : "De nouvelles questions importantes et d'un caractère urgent peuvent être inscrites à l'ordre du jour en vertu d'une décision prise à la majorité des deux tiers des membres présents et votants ; toutefois, ces nouvelles questions sont soumises au Bureau de la Conférence pour qu'il fasse son rapport avant qu'elles ne soient mises aux voix conformément à l'article 36, paragraphe 1 (c). Pour toute nouvelle question inscrite dans ces conditions à l'ordre du jour, l'ajournement est de droit à la demande d'un Etat membre ou d'un Membre associé quelconque, mais ne peut se prolonger plus de sept jours après l'inscription de la question à l'ordre du jour." Merci, Monsieur le Président.
7.1 Le PRESIDENT.- Conformément à la recommandation du Bureau, vous êtes invités à inscrire à l'ordre du jour trois nouvelles questions. Je vous rappelle que la majorité des deux tiers des membres présents et votants est requise.
7.2 La première de ces questions a trait à la demande d'admission de la Namibie comme membre de l'Unesco, qui fait l'objet du document 20 C/118. Je mets aux voix l'inscription de cette nouvelle question à l'ordre du jour. (Le vote a lieu à main levée).
7.3 Le résultat du vote est le suivant : 95 voix pour, zéro voix contre et une abstention.
7.4 La majorité des deux tiers ayant été obtenue, l'inscription de ce point à l'ordre du jour est approuvée.
7.5 La deuxième question a trait à la demande d'admission de la Dominique comme membre de l'Unesco, qui fait l'objet du document 20 C/119.
7.6 Puisqu'il n'y a pas d'objections, je considère que la Conférence approuve l'inscription de cette question à l'ordre du jour.
7.7 La troisième question se rapporte à la participation des nouveaux Etats membres aux activités régionales de l'Unesco.
7.8 En l'absence d'objections, je considère que la Conférence approuve l'inscription de cette ques- tion à l'ordre du jour.    ORGANIZATION OF THE WORK OF THE SESSION/ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX DE LA SESSION/ORGANIZACION DE LOS TRABAJOS DE LA REUNION/ ОРГАНИЗАЦИЯ РАБОТЫ СЕССИИ/ dpJul elo
8.1 Le PRESIDENT .- Nous allons maintenant aborder le point 6 de l'ordre du jour, qui a trait à l'organisation des travaux de la session. Vous avez à votre disposition les documents 20 C/2 et 20 C/2 Add. et Corr., qui contiennent les recommandations du Conseil exécutif concernant cette organisation ; je vous rappelle que le calendrier des travaux qui figure en annexe au document 20 C/2 a un caractère indicatif et qu'il appartient aux commissions de décider elles-mêmes comment elles organiseront leur travail. Je vous demande de vous prononcer sur les documents 20 C/2 et 20 C/2 Add. et Corr.
8.2 Puisqu'il n'y a pas d'objections, je considère que ces deux documents sont adoptés.
8.3 Je vous prie maintenant de noter que le Président de la République française, M. Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, se rendra au Siège de l'Organisation le vendredi 27 octobre à 16 heures et prononcera à cette occasion un discours devant la Conférence générale. Il est prévu que les commissions interrom- pront leurs travaux afin que les délégués puissent écouter en séance plénière l'intervention du Président de la République française. INTRODUCTION TO THE GENERAL POLICY DEBATE/INTRODUCTION AU DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE/INTRODUCCION AL DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL/ ВВЕДЕНИЕ К ОБСУЖДЕНИЮ ВОПРОСОВ ОБЩЕЙ ПОЛИТИКИ/ ISan ‎هعمعم Si Le PRESIDENT = Nous sommes maintenant parvenus au moment essentiel de la vingtième session, c'est-à-dire l'introduction au débat de politique générale.
9.2 Je donne la parole au Président du Conseil exécutif.
10.1 Mr. MARTIN (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland), Chairman of the Executive Board: Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I am not quite sure how I should begin. In accordance with our rules and established practice, the Executive Board presents, through its Chairman, a report to the General Conference on the Board's main activities since its last session. It has also become a tradition that this oral report is supplemented by a written report containing more detailed information, so as not to take up too much of the valuable time of the Conference. This written report, which will be available shortly as document 20 C/31, will also provide information about the Board's activities at its 105th session which ended only on Thursday of last week.
10.2 As far as the report which I make now is concerned, Mr. President, I should say at the outset that although I have notes in front of me, it is very much an oral report, because we have not had the time to prepare a printed document. If, therefore, I omit certain matters or present certain issues in a light which might reveal a personal bias on my part, I ask to be excused. This is not intentional, and the written report will put matters right.
10.3 Before I try to highlight some of the major tasks which the Board has accomplished during the past two years and to refer also to some of our major difficulties, I would like to speak briefly about the organization of the Board's work. At its 101st session, immediately after the closure of the nineteenth session of the General Conference in Nairobi, the Board elected me as its Chairman, and having amended Rule 12 of its Rules of Procedure, proceeded to elect six Vice-Chairmen: Mrs. Aldaba-Lim of the Philippines, Mr. Berrêdo de Carneiro of Brazil, Mr. Ibinga-Magwangu of Gabon, Mr. Kutakov of the Soviet Union, Mr. Muraywid of the Syrian Arab Republic and Mr. Philp of Australia. It also elected Mr. El-Wakil of Egypt as Chairman of its Programme and External Relations Commission, Mr. Hummel of Switzerland as Chairman of the Finance and Administrative Commission and Mr. Ki-Zerbo of Upper Volta as Chairman of the Board's Special Committee. During the 102nd session of the Board, the Committee on Conventions and Recommendations in Education and the Committee on International Non-Governmental Organizations elected Mr. Garbo of Norway and Mr. Bustamante of Panamaas their respective Chairmen.
10.4 But, Mr. President, it was not long before there were changes in the composition of the Executive Board. At its 102nd session, the Board accepted the resignation of Mr. Bravo Ahuja of Mexico and appointed Mr. Muhoz Ledo to replace him for the remainder of his term of office. It appointed Mr. Le Riverend of Cuba to occupy the seat which had become vacant as a result of the sadly regretted death of Mr. Marinello. It appointed Mr. Jagatsingh of Mauritius to replace Mr. Chaperon for the remainder of his term of office. It accepted the resignation of Mr. Hironaga of Japan and appointed Mr. Suganuma to replace him. At its 103rd session, the Board appointed Mr. Valéry of France to occupy for the remainder of the term of office the seat which had become vacant as a result of the death of Mr. Jean de Broglie. It later accepted the resignation of Ledo of Mexico and appointed Mr. Echeverria to replace him for the remainder of his termا‏ of office.‏
10.5 At its 104th session, the Board accepted the resignation of Mr. Van Ussel of Belgium and appointed Mr. Denis to replace him. Finally, Mrs. Aldaba-Lim who had resigned from the Board in order to take up very important duties within the United Nations system in connection with the International Year of the Child, was replaced as Vice-Chairman by Mr. Upraity of Nepal and Mr. Aguilar Cruz was appointed to replace her for the remainder of her term of office. So as you see, Mr. President, there was some considerable movement in the composition of the membership of the Executive Board during the two years between the nineteenth and twentieth sessions of the Conference.
10.6 I think it is fair to say that throughout the period in question, i.e. from its 101st to 105th sessions, the Board has worked very hard, both in plenary and in the meetings of its Commissions and Committees. More use has been made than in the past of small working groups, with members from the various regions to ensure fair geographical representation, in the preparation of our decisions on a number of difficult and complex issues. This procedure has proved effective, and has often helped the Board towards consensus; at this point, although the Board, of course, can always change its practices as it goes along, I think it is true to say that formal voting on any decision has become the exception rather than the rule.
10.7 Mr. President, there are a great number of items before this session of the General Conference which, in addition to anything that I may say this afternoon or to what you will find in the full printed report on the Board's activities, are the subject of separate recommendations and observations by the Board. These will be found in document 20 C/6 and Add. as far as the Draft Programme and Budget for 1979-1980 is concerned; in documents 20 C/106 and Add. as far as the Draft Adjustments to the Medium-Term Plan (1977-1982) are concerned; and in document 20 C/9 as far as the Director- General's Report on the Activities of the Organization in 1975-1976 is concerned. Document 20 C/9 also contains a resolution adopted by the Board concerning the in-depth studies undertaken by its Special Committee. The Conference also has before it, in document 20 C/12 Add., the Board's obser- vations on the Director-General's report on Unesco's contribution to the establishment of a new international economic order. Documents 20 C/14 and Add and Corr. contain the report prepared by it and the Director-General concerning the implementation of Unesco's tasks with respect to the promotion of human rights, together with further comments by the Board in that connection. Docu- ments 20 C/22 and Add. deal similarly with the standard-setting activities of the Organization. These are only a few of the documents in which you will find an elaboration of the Board's contri- butions to our deliberations and our work.
10.8 It would take too much time at this particular moment if I were to go through the work accom- plished at each session of the Board and so, as I said at the outset, I will do my best to concen- trate on some of the main issues.
10.9 Mr. President, one of the Board's major constitutional functions is to examine the Director- General's proposed programme and budget, and to submit recommendations to the Conference on his proposals. In accordance with the short-hand terms we use, "document 20 C/5" refers to the Draft Programme and Budget for 1979-1980, and "document 20 C/6" to the Board's comments, observations and recommendations thereon. Mr. President, in preparing these recommendations for the Conference, the Board examined at its 102nd session the structure of document 20 C/5, both in the light of the decisions of the General Conference and also with particular reference to its relationship with the Medium-Term Plan as set out in document 19 C/4 approved by the General Conference in Nairobi.
10.10 At that time the Board gave detailed directives to the Director-General concerning the prepara- tion of document 20 C/5. In doing so, it did its best to ensure that the objectives of the Medium- Term Plan would be reflected with sufficient clarity in that document. At its 103rd sesssion, in the autumn of last year, the Board examined possible adjustments to the Medium-Term Plan, as well as the Director-General's preliminary proposals concerning the Draft Programme and Budget for 1979-1980, taking into account the results of the consultations held by the Director-General with Member States, Associate Members and non-governmental organizations on the subject of the preparation of docu- ment 20 C/5. At that session, the Director-General also submitted to the Board his proposals concern- ing budgetary techniques and probable requirements for the forthcoming biennium.
10.11 I might add at this point, Mr. President, that at the same session, the Board also held its first discussion on the concept of "basic human needs" and on the possible implications of that concept for Unesco's action, but I will come back to this matter later.
10.12 The Board thus made specific recommendations to the Director-General concerning the prepara- tion of the final drafts of documents 20 C/5 and 20 C/4, with the understanding that it would continue its deliberations at its 104th session. The Draft Programme and Budget for 1979-1980 and the Draft Adjustments to the Medium-Term Plan, as they appear now in documents 20 C/5 and 20 C/4, were submitted to the Board for detailed study at that session. The Board made a thorough examination of these documents in meetings of its Programme and External Relations Commission and its Finance and Administrative Commission as well as in plenary meetings.
10.13 After a very full debate on the Director-General's proposals, and in the hope that its observa- tions and recommendations on documents 20 C/5 and 20 C/4 might be formulated in such a way that they would be of greater help to the deliberations of the Conference than had perhaps been the case in the past, the Board set up a working group, with what I hope was full regard to equitable geo- graphic balance, which was chaired by Mr. Philp; the other members were Mr. Abad Grijalva, Mr. Gopal, Mr. Kutakov, Mr. Messadi and Mr. Porter. Mr. El-Wakil and Mr. Hummel also took part in its deliberations as Chairmen respectively of the Programme and External Relations Commission and of the Board's Finance and Administrative Commission.
10.14 During this 104th session, the Board adopted recommendations concerning the Draft Adjust- ments to the Medium-Term Plan (20 C/4, Part I), with particular reference to Unesco's contribution to integrated rural development; to improvement of the status of women and the promotion of their participation in economic, social and cultural development; and to the development of the role of young people in educational, social and cultural activity. At the same time, it decided to submit the Draft Programme and Budget for 1979-1980 (20 C/5) to the General Conference for its favourable consideration, together with the observations made on the Director-General's proposals during the session in its plenary meetings and in its Commissions. The Board also decided to formulate its final observations at its 105th session, in other words at the session which ended only last week.
10.15 The working group under the chairmanship of Mr. Philp thus continued its examination of the C/5 document, and submitted to the 105th session detailed observations both of a general and a detailed nature on the Draft Programme and Budget. While reiterating its general approval and support for what the Director-General has proposed, the Board hopes that these detailed observa- tions and comments, which will be found in document 20 C/6 Addendum, will facilitate the work of the Conference, and more particularly that they will assist the commissions in their examination of the individual programme chapters in document 20 C/5, as well as the budgetary and administrative elements contained in that document.
10.16 Mr. President, I would like at this point to emphasize yet again the Executive Board's very great appreciation of all that the Director-General has done since the last General Conference to prepare his proposals for the next Programme and Budget. If, occasionally, the final comments of the Board are not entirely in line with what is set out in document 20 C/5, I hope that the Confer- ence will understand the spirit in which those comments are made. It would be wrong, and there would be something lacking in the intellectual life of our Organization, if the Board and the Director- General were always in total and complete agreement on all the details of the proposed programme. Moreover, we have been encouraged over the last two years to adopt this attitude by the very frankness of the Director-General himself. He has at all times urged that the dialogue should be open, and that we should contribute fully to the discussion. The Board has very much appreciated this encouragement and if we have to some extent taken advantage of it, this does not mean that we are any less enthusiastic in our support for the Director-General. On the contrary, and as I have said, we are most appreciative of all that he has done.
10.17 While the Board was carrying out this work, Mr. President, it came to the conclusion that it might be desirable to examine further its own methods of looking at future draft programmes and budgets, as well as the format and formulation of its recommendations to the General Conference. 1 will not elaborate on this; I am simply saying that the Board is still in the process of discovering how it can best contribute to the work of the Conference.
10.18 Mr. President, at its 105th session, the Board also examined document 20 C/4 Part II, which contains a broadly-based review of current problems in the fields of competence of Unesco. Its conclusion was that the main lines of emphasis of the Medium-Term Plan adopted in Nairobi still retain their validity, and that there is no need at this stage to envisage adjustments other than those proposed in document 20 C/4, Part I, which I mentioned earlier.
10.19 Mr. President, also at the 105th session the Board discussed its final recommendation to the Conference on the proposed budget ceiling for 1979-1980. I will not go into details at this point, since the Conference will have an opportunity to consider this matter later under agenda item 11, but perhaps I should state here and now that the Board recommends a provisional budget ceiling of $303,000,000. This is the sum which corresponds to the programme proposed in document 20 C/5, with certain adjustments to take account firstly of mandatory increases in contributions to the Pension Fund, secondly the additional cost of possibly holding the twenty-first session of the General Confer- ence away from Headquarters if the Conference accepts the Board's recommendation in this respect under agenda item 58, and finally of adjustments due to the decline in value of the United States dollar in relation to the French and Swiss francs.
10.20 This continual process of adjustment in the light of changes in the relative values of currencies is both complicated and worrying, because the Organization naturally wants to know where it stands. I believe that the Board greatly appreciates the way in which the Director-General has handled this particular problem in the last few months. But as I have said, details of this will come before the Conference under agenda item 11.
10.21 Mr. President, before turning to other aspects of the Board's activities, I would like on behalf of the Board most warmly to commend to the attention of the Conference for adoption the Director-General's proposed Programme and Budget, as submitted in document 20 C/5, together with the proposed adjustments to the Medium-Term Plan.
10.22 Mr. President, the Executive Board has a constitutional responsibility, under the authority of the General Conference, to ensure the effective and rational execution of the programme. I have already mentioned that you will, on various items of the agenda, find that the Board's comments and observations are available to you. One important means of effectively assessing the execution of the approved programme is through examination of the Director-General's reports on the activities of the Organization; and it is one of my duties as Chairman of the Executive Board, in accordance with Article V, paragraph 9, of the Constitution, to present on its behalf, with or without comments, the Report on the Activities of the Organization in 1975-1976, which will be found in document 20 C/3 to the General Conference. This is for me a very pleasant task indeed, although it will not be possible to do full justice this afternoon to the contents of this document.
10.23 The Report was examined by the Board in plenary meeting at its 103rd session. The Board congratulated the Director-General and commended him on his frankness and objectivity as well as for the precision of the analyses presented. We noted with satisfaction the improvements in the format and layout of this Report in comparison with previous versions, and welcomed the inclusion of numerous tables and graphs which, I hope, will make for increased clarity and easier reading. But this will be for the Conference to decide in the light of its experience on this and on previous occasions. The Board also expressed its appreciation of the Director-General's courageous and tireless efforts to overcome the various difficulties with which Unesco has been confronted during the period under review, and noted that despite those difficulties the Programme for 1975-1976 had been carried out satisfactorily. I think that those of you who were present at the nineteenth session of the General Conference, and who remember the reports of the Director-General and of my predecessor as Chairman of the Board concerning the difficulties which seemed to be in front of us then, will agree that this is a particular tribute to the Director-General and his colleagues.
10.24 Together with the Director-General's Report, the Board considered a report by its own Special Committee. It has now become established practice for Board members to undertake studies in depth on specific topics in connection with the two-yearly report, and I would like here publicly to thank all those members who, together with their deputies or others who gave them assistance, put so much time and effort into the preparation of these in-depth studies. For the period 1975-1976, in-depth studies were prepared by Mr. Tinsman of the United States of America, Mr. Philp of Australia, Mr. Akoto of the Ivory Coast, Mr. Dayal of India, Mr. Kutakov of the Soviet Union and Mrs. Krassowska of Poland. The relevant conclusions and recommendations by the Board will be found in document 20 C/9.
10.25 The Board also selected six further topics for in-depth study with regard to activities carried out in 1977. Reports on these activities are not yet available to the Conference but rapporteurs were appointed for the studies concerned, and the Special Committee was able to examine their reports during the 105th session of the Board. The rapporteurs on this occasion were Mr. Kutakov of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Mr. Buergenthal and Mrs. Torrey of the United States of America; Mr. Dayal of India; Mr. Ngakoutou of Chad, Mr. Musa of Nigeria and Mr. Hernandez of Cuba; Mr. Griindel of the Federal Republic of Germany; Mr. Laufer of the United States and Mr. Philp of Australia; and Mrs. Krassowska of Poland. These in-depth studies have provided a wealth of information, and have confirmed the conviction of the Board that they are well worth continuing in the future.
10.26 Another new and extremely useful element of the Board's work concerns the oral reports submitted by the Director-General to its various sessions, in which he tells us about developments and salient events in the life of the Organization between Board sessions. The Board has found these frank and open reports to be extremely useful; it has expressed its appreciation to the Director-General accordingly, and has asked him to continue the practice. The Board's detailed observations and decisions on these reports may be found in documents 104 EX/Decision 5.1 and
105 EX/Decision 5.1.1.
10.27 Yet another report submitted for the Board's consideration at its 104th and 105th sessions provides information for the supervision of programme execution. I refer to the "statement of major impacts, achievements, difficulties and shortfalls for each continuing programme activity during the first eighteen months of the 1977-1978 biennium". I will not go into detail on this report, which is before the Conference in document 20 C/112, except to recall that the Board considers that it must be and indeed is an important working tool for the General Conference, particularly for its Programme Commissions when they examine document 20 C/5. The Board would therefore recommend that every possible step be taken to ensure that the attention of each Commission is drawn to the passages in document 20 C/112 which relate to parts of document 20 C/5 under examination at any point in time. The Board has also recommended to the Director-General that this report should be closely harmonized with the report on activities he will submit to the twenty-first session of the General Conference in document 21 C/3.
10.28 Mr. President, from what I have been saying the Conference will realize that a good deal of the Board's time during the last two years has been devoted to examination of the Draft Programme and Budget for the forthcoming biennium and of the Director-General's reports on activities during the past two years. But there are quite a few other issues which were examined by the Board, and I would like to mention at least some of them, if only briefly. Several relate to items you will be considering on the recommendation of your General Committee during the general policy debate: item 14: Unesco's contribution to the establishment of a new international economic order; item 16: Unesco's contribution to peace and its tasks with respect to the promotion of human rights and the elimination of colonialism and racialism; item 18: the role of Unesco in generating a climate of public opinion conducive to the halting of the arms race and the transition to disarmament. The Board has also examined certain aspects of the work of the International Commission for the Study of Communi- cations Problems and Unesco's contribution to the United Nations Conference on Science and Technol- ogy for Development. All these matters have been discussed at least once and often several times by the Board during the past biennium, and you will find most of the Board's comments available to you in the relevant documents before the Conference.
10.29 With regard to Unesco's contribution to the establishment of a new international economic order, I am sure that most members of the Conference will remember the Director-General's compre- hensive report under the title "Moving towards Change". The Board discussed this matter at its meetings before the nineteenth session of the General Conference, and reported to you at that session. The Director-General then prepared a further report on Unesco's contribution to the establishment of a new international economic order in compliance with resolution 19 C/9.1 adopted at Nairobi. He submitted this report to the 104th session, but due to lack of time the Board was not able to consider it until the session which has just ended.
10.30 At this, the 105th session, the Board also had before it a study in depth prepared by the Director-General at the request of the Board on the concept of basic human needs. After a very wide ranging debate on these matters, the Board congratulated the Director-General on his efforts to strengthen and diversify Unesco's contribution to the establishment of a new international economic order, both in regard to the reflective role of Unesco in these matters and to its task in the dissemi- nation of knowledge and in respect of activities undertaken within our various fields of competence. The Board expressed its appreciation of the quality and seriousness of the study on the concept of "basic human needs" in relation to our own activities. In its majority, however, the Board considered that the practical development strategies advanced on the basis of the concept of "basic needs" at present show serious inadequacies, and believed that such a restrictive concept could not be used as a basis for planning and programming Unesco's action for development. The Board was of the opinion that, in the stress that they lay on the endogenous nature of development, on the need for popular participation in development work, on the reduction and elimination of inequalities between nations, groups and individuals, and on the urgent need to improve the situation of the least privileged populations, and to achieve equity, justice and solidarity - the programmes set out in the Medium- Term Plan (19 C/4) and in document 20 C/5 are indeed oriented towards the broadest possible development of peoples and towards the establishment of a new international economic order.
10.31 In connection with this discussion, the Board invited the Director-General to continue to play an active part in the preparation within the United Nations system of a new international development strategy for the Third United Nations Development Decade, basing himself, of course, on the relevant decisions and directives of the General Conference. I will come a little later to some other aspects of Unesco's co-operation with various organizations of the United Nations system.
10.32 I turn now, Mr. President, to the question of peace and disarmament, human rights and the elimination of racial discrimination. Unesco's contribution to the Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly devoted to Disarmament, which took place in New York in May and June of this year, received the special attention of the Board at its 104th session. The Director-General had been invited to address the plenary of the Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly, and the Board wished to offer him its views. But the Director-General himself will, I am sure, speak to the Conference in more detail about these matters a little later on. The outcome of that Special Session included specific recommendations to Unesco for activities within its fields of compe- tence. At its 105th session, the Board expressed its appreciation of the Special Session of the General Assembly and welcomed the active participation of the Director-General in its work. It noted with satisfaction that the Special Session had welcomed the initiative of Unesco to hold a world congress on disarmament education and to step up its programme aimed at the development of disarmament education as a distinct field of study. The Special Session had also urged Unesco to intensify its activities for the promotion of research and publications on disarmament, related to its fields of competence, and laid particular stress on the important role of world public opinion in solving the problem of halting the arms race and achieving real disarmament. In its turn, the Board stressed the urgent necessity of further extending the work done by Unesco in generating a climate of public opinion conducive to the halting of the arms race and transition to disarmament, and the creation of conditions under which all conflicts could be resolved by peaceful means. The Board also expressed Unesco's readiness to take a most active part, in its fields of competence, in promoting implementation of the decisions of the Special Session. It stressed the fact that the halting of the arms race might and indeed, would release, enormous human and material resources which could be applied to con- structive purposes that would help to ensure the survival of the human race through the elimination, among other things, of poverty, hunger, disease and illiteracy. The Board endorsed the Director- General's programme proposals on these matters, and requested him both to take into account the suggestions made during the Board's discussion at its 105th session and to implement them in the next biennium to the extent made possible by adjustments in the course of the execution of the programme.
10.33 As far as Unesco's participation in International Anti-Apartheid Year is concerned, the Board, at its 103rd session, invited the Director-General to take the necessary steps for appropriate Unesco action in co-operation with the United Nations and its Special Committee against Apartheid. Unesco's proposed programme for implementation of United Nations General Assembly resolution 32/105 B on International Anti-Apartheid Year came before the Board at its 104th session. The principal objective of this programme is to mobilize world opinion against apartheid by exposing its inhumanity, and by demonstrating how the practice of apartheid is incompatible with the development of education, science, culture and communication in South Africa. And, again, Mr. President, the Board was happy to be able to congratulate the Director-General on his proposed activities and expressed its full support.
10.34 Turning to human rights, Mr. President, the Board has also, throughout the last biennium, dealt with human rights questions both in general terms and in connection with specific cases, using as a starting point the relevant resolutions of the General Conference, in particular resolution 19 C/12.1, Part ain helping to implement that resolution, the Executive Board has continued to give special attention to the study of procedures to be followed in the examination of cases and questions which might be submitted to the Organization concerning the exercise of human rights within our spheres of competence, in order to make Unesco's action more effective. At its 102nd session, the Board decided to set up a working party with myself as Chairman to carry out an in-depth study of the subject with the aim of identifying points of agreement and divergence and, working to the extent possible on the basis of consensus, to try to reduce divergences so as to be able to submit to the full Board suggestions about the procedures to be followed in the future. This was a difficult task Which took us quite a lot of time, but the Board, at its 104th session, was finally able to adopt the proposed procedures by consensus. All the time, Mr. President, the Board was fully conscious of the fact that Unesco should not attempt to play the role of an international judicial body and that its sole concern should be to adopt procedures which will make our action in the field of human rights more effective.
10.35 The Board decided at the 104th session that its Committee on Conventions and Recommenda- tions in Education would henceforth be designated simply as the Committee on Conventions and Recommendations. This Committee submits confidential reports on the execution of its mandate to the Executive Board at each of its sessions, and the Board considers these reports in private session. At the same time, it was decided that communications transmitted from the Committee to the Board, which testify to the existence of massive, systematic or flagrant violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms within Unesco's spheres of competence should be considered by the Board and the Conference in public meetings.
10.36 Mr. President, the Board also transmits to the General Conference for its consideration, in document 20 C/14, the report on its own and the Director-General's activities in implementation of
19 C/Resolution 12.1 concerning Unesco's contribution to peace and its tasks with respect to the promotion of human rights and the elimination of colonialism and racism. The related matters of periodic reports from Member States on several international instruments, notably those which are dealt with in documents 20 C/40 and 20 C/84, were also examined by the Board. The Board also examined the action taken by the Director-General on other resolutions of the General Conference at its eighteenth and nineteenth sessions, for example on the implementation of 18 C/Resolution 13.1 and 19 C/Resolution 15.1 concerning educational and cultural institutions in the occupied Arab territories. At its 104th session, the Board considered the Director-General's report on the mission which he had sent to the occupied Arab territories to collect information concerning educational and cultural institu- tions in those territories, and adopted a resolution on that subject by consensus. In that resolution
(104 EX/Decision 5.1.5), the Board expressed its high appreciation of the intensive efforts made by the Director-General since the eighteenth session of the General Conference and of the results that had been accomplished so far, but noted that the mission had not been able to carry out its tasks with respect to Jerusalem and approved the Director-General's recommendation for further action. It invited him to take all the measures necessary to secure the full implementation of the relevant resolutions of the eighteenth and nineteenth sessions of the General Conference and to submit yet a further comprehensive and analytical report, together with any recommendations he deemed necessary and appropriate, to this session of the General Conference. The Board decided, also, to include this question, as a separate item, in the provisional agenda for this Conference, which you approved yesterday. The Director-General's report is consequently before you in document 20 C/113, under item 62 of the agenda.
10.37 I turn now, Mr. President, to another matter to which the Executive Board has given consid- eration during the last biennium, namely the protection of human rights in Chile. The Board con- sidered this matter at its 104th session, with due regard to resolution 32/118 of the United Nations General Assembly. In the decision which the Board adopted (104 EX/Decision 7.1.7), attention was drawn to the efforts made by the various agencies of the United Nations system, by other regional and international governmental and non-governmental organizations, and by the international community as a whole, to restore the human rights and fundamental freedoms in the country concerned. The efforts of the Chilean Government to respond to the concerns that have been expressed over the past few years by international public opinion were acknowledged, and particular note was taken of the discussions held between the Human Rights Commission Ad Hoc Working Group and representa- tives of the Government of Chile with the aim of arranging a visit of the group to Chile. In the same decision, the Board once again urged that human rights and fundamental freedoms in education, science, culture and communication be respected, and called for the creation of conditions which would allow exiles who wished to do so to return to their homes in the near future. It stressed the need to respect the status of the teaching profession and to re-establish the normal functioning of universities, primary and secondary schools and scientific and cultural institutions. Finally, it asked the Director-General to submit to it at its 105th session possibilities of humanitarian assistance to exiles belonging to the fields of education, science, culture and communication. In the event, how- ever, because of its very heavy workload during the past three or four weeks, the Board has had to decide to defer consideration of the Director-General's report (105 EX/50) until its 107th session, with the understanding that in the meantime the Director-General will pursue his action in co-operation with the United Nations.
10.38 Mr. President, another major topic which has come before the Board is that of science and technology. The subject of the important role science and technology can play in the development process has been a major preoccupation of the international community. In this context, the Board has at several sessions discussed the contribution of Unesco to the forthcoming United Nations Con- ference on Science and Technology for Development (UNCSTD). The General Conference has before it a report on the subject, document 20 C/107, which will be discussed under item 12 of the agenda. UNCSTD will be held in Vienna in August/September of next year; both the Director-General and the Executive Board attach the greatest importance to the participation of Unesco in its work; and the Board discussed this matter at length at its 104th session. In the opinion of the Board the role of Unesco relates not only to the preparatory work of UNCSTD, but also to the Conference itself and to the implementation of any decisions it may adopt. In its relevant decision (104 EX/Decision 51801); the Board emphasized Unesco's special competence in the field of science and technology within the United Nations system, as well as its fundamental contribution to international co-operation in these fields. In the same decision, the Board reiterated its conviction that the strengthening of Unesco's programme in science and technology is a prime necessity in order to ensure a greater contribution by the Organization to the efforts of all nations to promote scientific and technological advance, especially in its application to development. I am sure that I speak for all the members of the Board when I express the hope that UNCSTD when it considers programme proposals for science and technology, will take its views into account.
10.39 Turning to a few more items, Mr. President, I would like firstly to mention the implementation of 19 C/Resolution 4.143 concerning a final Draft Declaration on fundamental principles governing the contribution of the mass media to strengthening peace and international understanding and to combat- ing war propaganda, racialism and apartheid. The General Conference will consider this matter under item 22 of its agenda, on the basis of the report submitted by the Director-General, in docu- ment 20 C/20. The Conference will recall that at our nineteenth session we invited the Director- General "to hold further broad consultations with experts with a view to preparing a final Draft Declaration ... which could meet with the largest possible measure of agreement, as well as to proposing any other action which may be called for in the light of these consultations". At the
104th session of the Board, the Director-General drew our attention to the difficulty of the task assigned to him and asked the advice of the Board on the measures to be taken. In the resolution which it adopted (104 EX/Decision 5.5.4), the Board expressed its high appreciation "of the inten- sive efforts undertaken by the Director-General since the nineteenth session of the General Conference... by consulting numerous experts, leading specialists from different regions of the world, representatives of professional organizations and other personalities, with a view to elaborat- ing a final draft, which could reflect the largest possible measure of agreement, and thus constitute a step forward towards the establishment of a new international information order”. It invited the Director-General to continue his efforts and, with the help of another group of consultants, the Director-General has prepared a new draft which, as I stated earlier, will come before this session of the Conference.
10.40 Yet another topic considered by the Board, Mr. President, was that of increased aid to developing countries. At Nairobi the General Conference adopted 19 C/Resolution 10.1 on special measures on behalf of the developing countries and, in particular, of the least developed among them. At its 102nd, 103rd and 104th sessions, on the: basis of reports by the Director-General, the Board devoted special attention to this matter. At its 103rd session, the Director-General sought the Board's approval for the transfer to the Participation Programme of a sum of $2,000,000, realized as a result of savings in the Regular Programme, mainly from staff costs; at the 104th session, he proposed the transfer of a further sum of $1,000,000 realized through further savings. The Board endorsed the Director-General's proposals and these sums will be used to finance requests from developing countries and more particularly from the least developed Member States.
10.41 Mr. President, at its 103rd session, the Board considered the publications policy of Unesco, on the basis of a report submitted by the Director-General, who stated in his introduction that the objective was to implement as effectively as possible the directives adopted by the General Conference in
19 C/Resolution 6.5.1. During the Board's discussion, the report of the Director-General was described as "a healthy self-critical document full of constructive suggestions”, and the Board approved the establishment of a publications schedule going beyond the framework of the two-year plan and based on the Medium-Term Plan comprising works intended for a wider public.
10.42 Mr. President, I am doing my best, despite the wide range of activities and topics with which the Executive Board has dealt in the last two years, to be brief, but I must refer to some other matters. First, at each of its sessions the Board has been fully informed of those activities and decisions of the United Nations Organization, and other members of the system which are of rele- vance to Unesco, and has discussed them in the light of General Conference resolutions and on the basis of the Approved Programme and Budget for 1977-1978. We have dealt also with a number of inter-organizational questions.
10.43 Again, either through its Special Committee or through the Finance and Administrative Com- mission, the Board has dealt with reports from the United Nations Joint Inspection Unit.
10.44 The Board has also considered reports of the International Civil Service Commission on staff questions and other very important matters, including those concerned with the geographical distri- bution of staff and with the long-term recruitment plan.
10.45 In so far as recommendations on the harmonization of the medium-term planning cycles and the budget cycles of the organizations of the United Nations system are concerned, the General Confer- ence will examine the Director-General's report and the Board's recommendations under item 40 of its agenda (document 20 C/37).
10.46 There may be other specific items which I should have mentioned, but here I would again like to refer delegates to the printed report on the activities of the Board, which I hope will appear before the end of this week.
10.47 Before I conclude my remarks, Mr. President, I would like to take just a few more minutes of the Conference's time to deal briefly with the working methods of the Board and some of the conclusions that might be drawn on the basis of acquired experience. Throughout the present biennium, the Board has made increased use of working groups for preparing important decisions; and this might be a useful practice for the future, if only because the Board is now a good deal larger than in the past. Another and most successful innovation, to which I have already referred, was the Board's request to the Director-General to submit oral reports on the activities of the Organization. This has become a permanent feature and, as I said, it is greatly appreciated by the Board. Then again, because of the growing complexity of our work, it has been the practice for the Bureau of the Board to meet for two or three days before each session, in order to undertake intensive preparation of the work of the session. At the beginning of each session, the Bureau has studied a list of questions which do not appear to require a discussion in the Board, and has proposed decisions which the Board has felt able to adopt without discussion.
10.48 Mr. President, I now come to the end of my report on behalf of the Board, and I would like to make one or two general remarks. Firstly, I wish to thank the Director-General and his collabo- rators very sincerely indeed for the way in which they have co-operated with your Executive Board in the last two years, and I would like to express my special thanks to the Director-General for the manner in which he has made it possible for us to work together. He has always been willing to see me at all times to discuss matters of common concern. I cannot recall that we have ever really had any serious differences that we have been unable to resolve in a perfectly friendly and amicable way, and I have greatly appreciated the Director-General's attitude.
10.49 The Board has enjoyed the help of all members of the Secretariat, but on this particular occasion, without going into detail, I would like to express my particular appreciation of those who are most closely associated with the Board in the sense of being at its particular disposal. In the course of my work for my own Government, I attend meetings and working meetings of quite a number of organs of the United Nations, and I can fairly say, without in any way being critical of what goes on outside Unesco, that I know of no organization which has such a competent and devoted Secretariat for its executive organ. It has been a very great privilege and pleasure to have so many friends working alongside me for the benefit of the Executive Board. And then, finally, Mr. President, since at this Conference I come to the end of my term of office as Chairman of the Board, I would like most sincerely indeed to thank my other forty-four colleagues for all their kind- ness and consideration and for the helpfulness that they have shown me at all times in the last two years. Thank you Mr. President.
11.1 Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le Président du Conseil exécutif de l'intéressant rapport sur l'activité du Conseil depuis la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale qu'il vient de nous présenter.
11.2 Il est d'usage qu'immédiatement après cet exposé du Président du Conseil exécutif, la parole soit donnée au Directeur général de l'Unesco. Mais le Directeur général m'informe que son interven- tion durera deux heures et demie à trois heures. Aussi, vu l'heure et considérant qu'il n'est pas souhaitable de scinder en deux parties l'audition d'un texte qui demande une attention soutenue, je vous suggère de remettre à demain matin la présentation par le Directeur général de son exposé d'introduction au débat de politique générale.
11.3 Je crois comprendre que la Conférence approuve cette suggestion. INCLUSION OF NEW ITEMS IN THE AGENDA (continued)/INSCRIPTION DE NOUVEAUX POINTS A L'ORDRE DU JOUR (suite)/INSCRIPCION DE NUEVOS PUNTOS EN EL ORDEN DEL DIA (continuacién)/ BKIIOUEHHE HOBEIX IYHKTOB B IOBECTKY [HS /продолжение/ (eb)4dd vg TA
12.1 Le PRESIDENT .- Mesdames, Messieurs, avant de lever la séance, je voudrais éclaircir un point sur lequel nous sommes peut-être passés un peu rapidement. Au début de la séance plénière cet après-midi, je vous ai informés que le Bureau de la Conférence générale recommandait à l'unanimité l'inscription d'un certain nombre de questions à l'ordre du jour. Or, j'ai cru comprendre que certaines délégations auraient souhaité prendre la parole au sujet de l'un de ces points.
12.2 Je crois avoir suivi jusqu'ici la procédure prescrite par le Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale en ce qui concerne l'inscription de nouvelles questions à l'ordre du jour. Au Bureau, nous n'avons pas discuté le fond de la question. Aucune objection n'ayant été formulée, le Bureau a pu, presque à l'unanimité, appuyer la proposition tendant à inscrire cette question à l'ordre du jour.
12.3 Si quelqu'un souhaite prendre la parole pour apporter des explications, et non pour ouvrir le débat au fond, lequel est prévu pour plus tard, je la lui donnerai bien volontiers afin que la situa- tion soit claire. Je tiens à rappeler - et mes collègues du Bureau peuvent aussi en témoigner - que le Président du Conseil exécutif a fait une présentation très succincte, très claire et très nuancée des faits concernant l'inscription de ce point et que, d'autre part, nous aurons l'occasion de discuter le fond de la question ultérieurement.
12.4 Puisque personne ne demande la parole, je considère que la question est éclaircie à la satis- faction des délégations.
12.5 La séance est levée. The meeting rose at 4.55 p.m. La séance est levée a 16 h.55 Se levanta la sesión a las 16.55 Заседание закрывается в 16.55