Seventh plenary meeting
27 October 1978 at 10.15 a.m. President: Mr. LEBLANC (Canada) Septième séance plénière
1. Le PRESIDENT.- Mesdames, Messieurs, nous allons reprendre le débat de politique générale. Je donne la parole a M. le professeur Setijadi, président du Bureau de l'éducation, du développement culturel et de la re- cherche du Département de l'éducation et de la culture, chef adjoint de la délégation de l'Indonésie.
2.1 Mr. SETIJADI (Indonesia): Mr. President, it is deeply regretted that the head of our delegation, the Minister of Education and Culture of Indonesia, cannot be present today to deliver his statement, due to urgent matters at home which require his personal attention. I thus have the honour to read his statement on his behalf. For the sake of brevity, Mr. President, I will not read the complete statement, but will submit the full text to you at a later time.“
2.2 Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, distinguished delegates: On behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Indonesia, it is my privilege to convey to you, Mr. President, our congratulations on the occasion of your election to the presidency of this session of the General Conference. We are confident that you will provide the kind of leadership that this distinguished gathering needs in order to meet the awesome challenges that lie before use.
2.3 With regard to human rights, my delegation would like to praise Unesco for giving them their right place in its Medium-Term Plan. Unesco, by virtue both of its Constitution and its place in the United Nations system, simply cannot afford to ignore its role in the promotion of respect for human rights and in international efforts to solve problems arising from the implementation of the principles of human rights.
2.4 At the last General Conference, during the general policy debate, my delegation stated that human rights do not exist merely on paper, but exist in the hearts and minds of all people in all nations. In view of this fact, it is widely accepted that Unesco has an important role to play, and it is in the mind of man that genuine respect for human rights should be firmly rooted. It is indeed very encouraging that Unesco's role in promoting respect for those rights is well reflected in the MediumTerm Plan for 1977-1982, as well as in the Draft Programme and Budget of the Organization or 1979-1980. * Theundelivered parts of the speaker's statement in plenary are, with the authorization of the President, annexed to the verbatim record of the meeting.
2.5 My delegation believes that the principles of human rights are universal, but that the implemen- tation of those principles is very much influenced by the cultural values of each nation. In discussing human rights, we have to take into consideration the relations between the individual, his surroundings and his society. Individual man cannot live without his society, and society can only survive if the norms - that is to say the cultural values - that govern the relations within society are obeyed by individuals. That is why, in our efforts to implement the principles of human rights, we cannot ignore the cultural values of a society.
2.6 There is a tendency among the developed nations to consider that the same methods of implement- ing the principles of human: rights in their own countries could be applied in the developing countries. They assume that developing countries have the same cultural values as themselves. My delegation considers that such an assumption promotes cultural colonialism: the developed countries wish to impose their cultural values upon the developing countries. We therefore urge Unesco to recognize and respect the differences which exist in the cultural values of individual countries.
2.7 Confident that our Organization opposes colonialism of all kinds, Indonesia fully supports Unesco in its statement that racism, colonialism, neo-colonialism and apartheid all constitute flagrant violations of human rights. In this connection, I would like to quote the message addressed by President Soeharto of the Republic of Indonesia to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Chairman of the Special Committee against Apartheid on the occasion of this year's International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination. President Soeharto stated: "on behalf of the Indonesian people, and on my own behalf, I reaffirm our historic commitment to the cause of freedom and racial equality, and express our determination to continue to assist those oppressed by racism and colonialism until the last vestiges of those twin evils are eradicated from the face of the earth".
2.8 We realize that the implementation of the principles of human rights, whether in the developed or the developing countries, remains to be improved. In this field, Unesco could play an important role, firstly by recognizing and respecting cultural differences, and secondly by distributing infor- mation and education to all nations, so that one day we may arrive at a common universal denominator in the implementation of the principles of human rights.
2.9 Mr. President, at the heart of the human rights issue, as set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, is the right to education. Equal access to education is an ideal which enjoys the greatest priority in Indonesia. During the past year, we have eliminated all school fees for primary education, thus removing a great obstacle in the path towards universal primary education. During our next five-year plan, beginning in March 1979, we shall extend primary education facilities to all children of the 7-12 year age-group, including those who live in remote areas. Innovations in teaching will be used to help us extend education to rural communities, to cater for the needs of under-privileged groups, and to cope with school drop-out. In this connection, we wholeheartedly support the Medium-Term Plan's emphasis on the democratization of education.
2.10 Mr. President, the Government of Indonesia applauds any effort by Unesco to "achieve wider participation in communication, equality of access to information and a free and balanced flow of information". The free flow of information requires that there be no barriers, whether human or geographical, economic or political, within or among nations, in the communication of facts and opinions. Unesco, by organizing world-wide conferences, by disseminating information to its Member States via its publications and the mass media, and by establishing radio and television programme banks, can and does help in the removal of substantial global barriers to the free flow of information. Nevertheless, vast areas of the globe still lie virtually outside the major world communications net- works, have no voice in world forums, or receive biased, one-sided interpretations of events. Such a state of affairs, Mr. President, reflects a very real imbalance in the flow of information.
2.11 The problem of balance is twofold. In the first place, the developed nations, because of their technological advantages, have tended to dominate the world's communication network, leaving the less developed nations as passive recipients of information which is often unsuited to their needs and national interests. In this connection, the Government of Indonesia calls upon Unesco to use its own powerful means of communication for the propagation of development-related knowledge to countries which lie outside the mainstreams of communication. Furthermore, Indonesia would support any effort by Unesco to provide technical assistance to developing nations in strengthening their national and regional communication infrastructures, and training the personnel necessary to operate them.
2.12 Secondly, the developing countries are often unduly influenced, and often to the exclusion of other valid points of view, by the interpretations and biases of neighbouring developed countries. In this regard, Indonesia, which has long been a champion of the cause of non-alignment, applauds Unesco's intention to promote the concept of a non-aligned countries’ press agency pool during the forthcoming biennium.
2.13 Mr. President, last year we mentioned the Unesco-sponsored regional organization, the Asian Programme of Educational Innovation for Development (APEID). Unlike most international programmes, APEID is jointly designed, executed, supervised and evaluated by the 18 or so participating Member States. The relationship betweeen them is not one of donors and beneficiaries, but is based on reciprocity, mutual learning and self-reliance. Since its inception in 1973, this programme has provided opportunities for associated centres in member countries to pool their efforts at innovation, to share the risks and to compare information on the effects of experimentation. Because of its unique organizational features, it stands out as an example of the possibilities of regional co- operation, the products of which are Asian solutions to Asian problems, an ideal embodied in Unesco's principle of endogenous development.
2.14 During the past two General Conferences, Indonesia has urged Unesco to renew its determi- nation to decentralize still further its field operations. Although this has occurred in some areas, as indicated above, there are major concerns, in the fields of the natural and social sciences and cultural affairs, for example, which are still too centralized. The issue is not merely one of providing regional solutions to regional problems: it is also a matter of increased management efficiency, and of placing more decision-making power, more expertise and more materials at the disposal of Member States. Once again, Mr. President, Indonesia urges Unesco to accelerate the process of decentralization.
2.15 Unesco's re-examination of the role of youth in society and the status of women in development is timely and coincides with our own developments: in this area. In the Draft Adjustments to the Medium-Term Plan, the Director-General advocates a more dynamic attitude towards the participation of women in national development, and shifts the emphasis in Unesco's youth programmes towards the encouragement of young people to take part in practical activities, such as literacy work or assist- ance to rural communities. These ideals are in complete harmony with our own, which are summed up in the following excerpt from a speech given by the President of the Republic of Indonesia on the occasion of the 33rd anniversary of our national independence:
2.16 "In the context of preparing cadres to continue the nation's struggle and to further national development, attempts will be made to see that there is equitable opportunity for the fullest partici- pation in development activities by the young generation. To this end, through productive work groups and various other activities, the young generation will be caught up in development activities. Further, a national policy will be drawn up on youth affairs in an overall and integrated way. Similarly, as a reflection of their equal rights, obligations and opportunities with men, women will obtain equitable opportunities to participate in development. To this end, the education of women and their training in skills will be heightened, especially in rural areas, partly through informal education and other training of skills, inclusive of business education. In this connection, cadres of women will be promoted for village development. All kinds of activities will be developed to multiply productive activities, especially for women of the economically weak group. In this way, women will come to have added capabilities for earning and income."
2.17 Mr. President, what is really "new" in the now accepted concept "new international economic order" is, in our opinion, the "international economy", the order of which may differ from that of the "old" international economy. In other words, the "new international economic order" is really just a different name for the "world economy" that has emerged since the end of the Second World War. Substantially, it could even be called a "genuine" world economy because, unlike the inter- national economy of nineteenth-century international trade theory, it is not simply an agglomeration of national economies. It is fundamentally autonomous. It has its own dynamics, its own demand patterns, its own institutions and, with the creation of Special Drawing Rights (SDR), even its own embryonic money and credit system.
2.18 At first sight, the emergence of this world economy appears to be the one real hope for most of the developing countries, the majority of which are too small to be viable as "national economies" under the conditions of modern technologies, capital and research requirements, and currently avail- able transportation and communication facilities. In reality, however, the opposite is the case. Trade now grows most vigorously, in volume as well as in value, between nations which have more or less the same level of technical civilization and whose economic and industrial systems are converg- ing. Thus trade within the group of industrialized countries is much more intense than is trade either between the industrialized and non-industrialized groups or within the non-industrialized group.
2.19 These realities of contemporary international trade stem from the fact that the world economy is basically stimulated and nourished by technology. Technology has indeed done much for the progress of the economy. If technology was responsible for the change in the "industrial economy", which was known long before the First World War, to a "service economy", its rapid development after the Second World War has turned the latter into a "knowledge economy". It is through this last-mentioned change that technology, in turn, has converted the "older" international economy gradually into the "new" international economy, which we think could be more precisely defined as a genuine "world economy".
2.20 Moreover, there is considerable evidence of the pervasive dependence of the overwhelming majority of the less developed parts of the world economy on the more advanced parts for all kinds of sophisticated technology. This accounts for the growth of an asymmetrical interdependence between the advanced and the less developed parts of the world economy. Where States are asymmetrically interdependent, the less dependent may be able to manipulate the relationship to achieve its goals not only in the area of the issue under consideration, but also in the form of side-payments in other areas as well.
2.21 Asymmetric relations being the dominant case, there can be no doubt that the consequences for the international system will, sooner or later, be extremely explosive. Corrective steps must be taken therefore, both collectively at the international level and singly by individual nation States, to avoid a head-on collision between the course of the world economy, on the one hand, and that of the doctrine of national sovereignty, on the other.
2.22 For there is no substitute in sight for the nation State in the political field, but also no sub- stitute for the world economy in the economic field. To this effect one fundamental and long-term measure may be proposed, that is: the transfer of technology from the advanced to the less developed parts of the world economy.
2.23 We attach special significance to this kind of measure for the following reason. The future of the less developed States, as equal participants in the world economy, depends upon the degree of their mastership of technology and its employment in bringing their economies into a "parallel" rela- tionship with those of the advanced States, which currently dominate international trade.
2.24 Mr. President, in this connection, we appreciate a growing world sensitivity, in part promoted by Unesco, towards the development of appropriate technologies. Transferring and adapting tech- nologies in ways conducive to endogenous development is not an easy task. Sometimes it involves making technologies more labour-intensive to cater to the production functions of less developed countries. In other cases, it involves a willingness to share the most advanced technologies and to train local operators to use them. In any case, technological transfer implies the need for training or retraining of individuals.
2.25 Mr. President, there is in the world a growing sense of optimism that Unesco and her sister agencies in the United Nations family can and will provide forums for the peaceful and equitable restructuring of the world's economic order. Let us in this General Conference, by our actions and our decisions, add momentum to these hopeful beginnings. Thank you, Mr. President.
(4.1) Mr. AL GHAZALI (Oman) (Translation from the Arabic): Mr. President, before commencing any remarks, I should like to associate myself with previous speakers in congratulating you on your election as President of the twentieth session of the General Con- ference of Unesco. I am sure that your long experience in the different fields of activity of this Organiza- tion will, God willing, exert a beneficial influence on the deliberations of our Conference.
(4.2) Permit me, Mr. President, to convey to the Conference the greetings of His Highness Sultan Qaboos of Oman, and his best wishes for the success of all of you in your noble tasks.
(4.3) 1 should also like to take this opportunity, Mr. President, to express to you my great admiration and appreciation for the many services this Organization has rendered and is rendering through its various organs and specialists. In particular, I should like to pay tribute to its Director-General, Mr. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, who has constantly given it impetus and strength by his profound belief in its mission, and his untiring loyalty in carrying out its responsibilities. I say this in recognition of the efforts of the Organization in my own country, and the concern of its Director-General for promoting education and culture.
(4.4) Mr. President, we have come together in this great gathering to dedicate ourselves afresh to the achievement of increased prosperity and progress for our peoples and to the elimination of poverty, ignorance, disease and all the varied manifestations of division and disunion among the nations. We are trying to take another step forward in the direction of the noble objectives we have formulated and adopted on behalf of those nations; and to this end we are determined, now as in the past, to discharge our responsibilities through this Organization which stands as a lofty symbol of the will of nations to uphold the humanity of man and his dignity at all times and in every place. Needless to say, Mr. President, these principles and ideals can best be realized through an educational system designed to promote them. And if knowledge gives man the power to change things, he must use that knowledge to change his way of ‘life for the better. Inasmuch as we hope that our common objective as members of this Organization is to endeavour to establish educational systems that will further the attainment of these noble aims, we expect that our dealings with it will be governed by its Constitution and laws, and based on the ethical principle it advocates.
(4.5) Mr. President, I should like to say a brief word on the subject of educational development in Oman, which will demonstrate the extent of our commitment to the principles of this Organization. Article 10 of the "Philosophy of Omani Education", on which educational development in our country is founded, states: "The Sultanate of Oman endeavours to achieve world co-operation on the basis of liberty, justice and equality, as well as to participate in the development of the world's civilization, and in the enrichment of the human heritage". It is this philosophy, with the principles and ideals it contains, which underlies all our efforts at educational expansion.
(4.6) The situation in Oman before the assumption of power by His Highness Sultan Qaboos in 1970 was fraught with obstacles: the Sultanate had only three schools for boys, with a total enrolment of 909 pupils, and no girls' schools at all. Education, like everything new and evolving in Oman, had its beginning. But its expansion in the next few years was a phenomenon that aroused the admiration of educationists concerned with following the trends and development of education throughout the world - foremost among them Unesco, which followed the educational renaissance in our country with the greatest interest. The harvest of the past eight years has been plentiful and gratifying, so much so that we now have no less than 330 schools or colleges with a total enrolment of more than 85,000 students of both sexes. One of the most important features of our educational renaissance was that it provided Omani women with educational opportunities equivalent to those available to men. The number of female students in the Sultanate's schools now exceeds
(4.7) We have also devoted increasing attention to the eradication of illiteracy and to adult education. The efforts exerted in this vital field have had good results. The emphasis on lifelong education was a basic aim of the Omani "Philosophy of Education", Article 9 of which states that "the concept of lifelong education is one of the new trends in education, its purpose being to make the widest possible range of educational opportunities available to all the members and categories of society according to their abilities and their desire to pursue lifelong education”. This concept is the modern interpretation of an old Islamic concept that was formulated by the Prophet as follows: "Seek ye learning from the cradle to the grave".
(4.8) While pursuing these two great quantitative and qualitative developments, we were very careful to ensure that instruction should be not an end in itself, but a means of achieving education in the widest sense, based on the abiding national values embodied in our heritage, our history, our flourishing present and our future hopes, as well as on our identity as Arabs and as human beings. That is why we decided, when divising our first new set of school curricula, to assign to the Omani environment and to Oman's Arabic and Islamic heritage a central role in the training of our future generations. We also paid great attention to the logical integration of the subjects of study, especially by pulling down the artificial barriers between religion and science in particular and between religion and the other disciplines in general, in order to eliminate the spurious contradiction between the Islamic approach and the so-called secular approach to nature, man and the achievements of science.
(4.9) From the foregoing, Mr. President, you can see that we were careful to ensure that the education of our future generations should be based on authentic values and criteria, avoiding all reliance on shifting fashions that could threaten the entire social fabric, as is happening in many contemporary societies which have been dehumanized and have abused the rights of individuals and interpreted justice according to the wishes of individuals.
(4.10) Mr. President, forgive me if I go back to the principles of this Organization and the extent of the moral commitment - not to say the constitutional obligation - that membership in it imposes on its members to respect its ideals and principles as laid down in its Constitution and Regulations. Unesco was created by the free will of its members and the provisions and articles of its Constitution were evolved as the result of a free and open dialogue among them. Hence membership in the Organization, initially voluntary, imposes a moral and legal commitment and responsibility on all concerned. That commitment implies a duty not only to observe Unesco's laws and regulations but also to defend and preserve them and to punish those who violate them. I mention this because there are among the Member States of this Organization - signatories to its Constitution and full beneficiaries of the services that are financed and managed through the common efforts of its members - some regrettable examples of violation of its humanistic principles.
(4.11) Thus, the report of the mission sent by the Director-General to Israel, with its account of the attempts by the Israeli authorities in Jerusalem and the occupied Arab territories to deface Arab cultural features and of their interference with the school curricula for Arab children, provides clear evidence of the overt violation by Israel of the principles and ideals of this Organization. Israel's insolence in tramp- ling on the teachings of Islam can only be regarded as a desecration of the most sacred human values and an affront to the human conscience and the divine revelation. And just as I now denounce what Israel is doing to Arab culture and the Islamic religion in the occupied Arab territories, so shall I denounce in future any State that attempts to trample on the human heritage or the divine revelation in any of their manifestations: for they are all part of the universal patrimony and as such entitled to our respect.
(4.12) Mr. President, any attempt to condemn a Member State for flagrantly violating a law which it parti- cipated in drafting and declared itself bound by would lead us into a maze of procedural formalities and divert us from the essence of the question. For condemnation is not a punishment in itself, but only the prelude to punishment, which should take the form of prompt deterrent action. The responsibility of this Organization, Mr. President, is not limited to the protection of its ideals and principles and to the punish- ment of those who violate them; it also involves - and this is the real challenge - delving deep into the motives and identifying the causes of actions that are contrary to those principles, guiding people towards higher ideals and encouraging them to pursue them, so that hatred may be replaced by love, war by peace, intolerance by tolerance and racism by human fellowship. I pray that our meeting today will be another step in that direction.
346        See PRESIDENT. = Je remercie le chef de la délégation d'Oman et j'invite maintenant S. Exc. le Dr. Willibald Pahr, ministre fédéral des affaires étrangères et chef de la délégation de l'Autriche, à prendre la parole.
6.1 Mr. PAHR (Austria): Mr. President, before presenting the Austrian contribution to the general policy debate, I should like to revert briefly to the nineteenth session of the General Conference which took place in the capital of Kenya two years ago. Its hallmark was the "spirit of Nairobi", or, as the Director- General pertinently expresses it in the introduction to his two-year report, "the climate of consensus".
6.2 We remember the late President of Kenya, Jomo Kenyatta, as an impressive personality. His forceful appeal to common action, expressed in the exhortation to act in true "Harambee" spirit, remains unforgotten. A similar approach would be of great value to the proceedings of the present General Conference.
6.3 It is in this line of thought that I am particularly pleased to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your unanimous election to your present function. We recognize in you the representative of a country with which Austria has long enjoyed friendly and indeed excellent relations, and we are also most satisfied to know that you have long been familiar with the ideals, the specific tasks and the practical work of this Organization.
6.4 May I also congratulate Mr. Martin, the Chairman of the Executive Board, on the manner in which he has conducted the Board's business. He managed to guide the Board in finding solutions to many serious problems, and - even though the Board now has as many as 45 members - it was generally possible to achieve a meeting of minds.
6.5 Four years ago, Mr. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow was entrusted with the function of Director-General of Unesco. Since then, there have been innovations in numerous aspects of the Organization's work, and we have had occasion to appreciate his personal style, purposeful activities and successful efforts. We know that his task is not an easy one, and we are genuinely impressed by the progress achieved under his guidance and leadership.
6.6 Mr. President, in his detailed and precise introduction to the Draft Programme and Budget for
1979-1980 (20 C/5), the Director-General refers to the most important activities of the preceding biennium. He also describes the major themes of Unesco's work, taking care to incorporate the line of thought of the Medium-Term Plan in the concrete plans for immediate action. My delegation is in agreement with this method, as well as with the selection of major themes and objectives, and wishes to congratulate the Director-General on the successful introduction of the concept of the Medium- Term Plan. The fact that the Draft Programme and Budget for 1979-1980 contains, for the first time, a comprehensive presentation of the results expected under each subject heading should make it easier both for the Member States and the Secretariat to keep track of the results actually achieved. Permit me to point out, however, that the presentation now adopted involves, perhaps inevitably, a certain degree of fractionalization and overlapping. In the interest of practical work based on the Programme, this aspect might be the subject of further study.
6.7 In making these remarks, we are only too well aware of the fact that the implementation of Unesco's Programme by no means depends on the Secretariat alone; the Member States, both in their deliberations on the activities of the Organization and in their practical contributions, play the most substantial part in this process.
6.8 Mr. President, turning now to some specific aspects of Unesco's work, I should like to refer, first of all, to the comprehensive long-range programmes in the natural sciences. Austria attaches particular importance to the world-wide programme "Man and the Biosphere" - a programme in which Austrian scientists take a special interest and in which they very actively participate. The latest meeting of the programme's International Co-ordinating Council took place last autumn in Vienna, at the invitation of the Austrian Federal Minister for Science and Research, Dr. Hertha Firnberg, from
24 October to 1 November 1977. In this connection, it may be worth noting that one of the projects in this programme involved a complex analysis based on a model prepared jointly with the Interna- tional Institute for Applied System Analysis (IIASA) in Laxenburg near Vienna - one of the first such efforts ever undertaken in this field. I make this point in view of the particular manner in which ITASA is organized, with a combination of governmental and non-governmental elements which could serve as an example for new forms of co-operation in the scientific field.
6.9 The International Hydrological Programme and the International Geological Correlation Programme are other Unesco activities in the field of science in which Austria takes an active part and interest.
6.10 Mr. President, in the field of education, special attention must be paid to the lot of handi- capped children and young people. Austria would therefore welcome additional efforts by Unesco in this field. My delegation is prepared fully to support the Organization in devising and implementing projects along these lines.
6.11 Another major interest of Austria concerns technical and vocational training. At the suggestion of the Austrian delegation to the seventeenth session of the General Conference, it was decided to embark on the preparation of a Revised Recommendation on this subject, which was adopted at the eighteenth session. My delegation thus notes with satisfaction that technical and vocational education
347    has become a separate objective in the work plan for the two years ahead. I hope that this work may contribute to the development of systems in which barriers between different levels, structures and streams of education will rapidly disappear.
6.12 I should like to add a few words about the Associated Schools Project, which has been under way for a quarter of a century, but which does not seem to command the degree of public attention which, in my opinion, it appears to deserve. The aim of this Project is to foster respect for human rights, appreciation of the cultural values of other peoples, and a spirit of tolerance and international understanding as a safeguard of peace. In Austria, the first programme in this connection, which laid emphasis on the significance of human rights, was launched in 1953. At present we are trying to intensify work in this field, which is also likely to increase the interest of young people in Unesco.
6.13 Generally speaking, all Unesco activities in the youth sector appear to us highly important, because they are, even more obviously than other aspects of the Organization's work, oriented towards the future.
6.14 1979 has been declared the International Year of the Child. This should, in our opinion, serve as the starting point for renewed efforts to secure the interest of young people, with special emphasis on programmes such as the Associated Schools Project.
6.15 Mr. President, at the nineteenth session of the General Conference in Nairobi two years ago, the Austrian delegation submitted a formal proposal that Unesco envisage the holding of a world-wide conference on teaching about human rights. This idea was taken up by the General Conference. It was acclaimed, both by the United Nations Human Rights Commission and the General Assembly of the United Nations as a most suitable contribution to the commemoration of the thirtieth anniversary of the International Declaration of Human Rights, which we celebrate this year. Indeed, the preamble to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights already refers to the need to foster respect for these rights and liberties through teaching and education.
6.16 The International Congress on the Teaching of Human Rights, which was opened by the Federal President of Austria, Dr. Rudolf Kirchschläger, in the presence of Unesco's Director-General, took place in Vienna in September of this year, and marked indeed a return to basic principles. We believe that - thanks to the interest shown by Member States and the devoted efforts of the Secre- tariat - it was a complete success. Summing up its results, I would say that there emerged a general conviction that the teaching of human rights must by no means be limited to universities, or to specific fields within universities, but that it should become an integral part of the lifelong learning process which we have learned to call "éducation permanente".
6.17 The teaching of human rights, which includes, in particular, the teaching of tolerance and respect for the cultural identity of other peoples, must begin at the kindergarten level. This train- ing - which cannot be a purely intellectual transmission of factual knowledge, but must be imbued with deep convictions - has to be conducted in all types and at all levels of both formal and out-of- school education. At the university level, it will have to extend to fields other than the juridical or political sciences; and it must have a definite place in adult education as well. As far as the content of such teaching is concerned, the Congress felt that besides political and civil rights, social, economic and cultural rights must be included in human rights teaching and must be given equal importance. All these rights and freedoms are indeed indivisible.
6.18 As I pointed out in my address to the current session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, it appears to me that today the scope and content of human rights are largely consolidated and codified. Of course this fact should not preclude further development in specific fields such as the campaigns against torture and the death penalty - campaigns that we firmly support. Now the time has come to intensify our efforts to achieve effective implementation of human rights. This is one of the reasons why the teaching of human rights now appears so important to us, and why we endorse the suggestions reached at the Vienna Congress.
6.19 In supporting the cause of human rights it is our primary objective to help the individual. At the same time we believe that this contributes also to the maintenance of world peace. Only in a world in which human rights are respected, and I mean all human rights, only in such a world will peace be guaranteed. It is not least for this reason that the respect for human rights is today acknowledged as being an internationally recognized principle, enjoying equal status with other recognized principles, governing international relations.
6.20 The Vienna Congress was thus an effective contribution by this Organization to the mainten- ance of peace. Another important contribution to the maintenance of peace and security, by the same means, could be education on disarmament. I think that it is of great interest that Unesco is dealing also with this matter.
6.21 Mr. President, allow me to mention another theme, which has repeatedly been the subject of Austrian contributions to Unesco debates - I refer to Unesco's efforts concerning the status of women. It is indeed our firm conviction that action in many fields, above all in education, is required to assure for women throughout the world, a status of equality and full human dignity, and to overcome the particular handicaps to which they are still, in many cases, subjected. Unesco has, in my opinion, a particular responsibility in this regard.
6.22 Mr. President, my country followed with special interest the Second Conference of Ministers Responsible for Science and Technology Policies in the European and North American Region (MINESPOL II), which took place in Belgrade last September, the first having been organized in
1970. Since then, there have been considerable changes with regard both to the objectives and to the strategies of science policy in Member States. At this year's conference, particular attention was paid to the effectiveness of research in relation to economic and social targets. The relationship between industrialized and developing nations was also given priority. We have noted with satisfac- tion that, in one of its recommendations, the conference recognized scientific and technological co- operation within the region as a basis for closer co-operation with countries on the road to development.
6.23 Indeed, science and technology are called upon to play a major role in the solution of the many problems connected with the establishment of a new international economic order. In a world of growing interdependence, the application of science and technology to development may require new forms of international co-operation, with due emphasis on an increase of the innovative capacities as well as on the relevance of scientific and technical activities for development.
6.24 The United Nations Conference on Science and, Technology for Development (UNCSTD), which is to take place in Vienna next year offers, in our opinion, an excellent opportunity for taking an essential step toward these objectives. In view of the complex nature of the questions related to the application of the scientific and technical potential in the interest of development, we attach particular importance to the preparation of this conference. Austria therefore appreciates the effective partici- pation of Unesco in these preparatory efforts.
6.25 May I also add that Austria, as the host country, is actively contributing to the preparatory work and will also endeavour to do everything within her power to assure the best possible conditions for the holding of this conference, to which we accord the highest importance.
6.26 Mr. President, there is one more subject to which I would like to refer. Two years ago, when addressing the General Conference at Nairobi, I had to point out that the Draft Declaration on Mass Media, then before us, was not acceptable to us, and that its prevailing ideas were based on the concept of State control. I did not exclude the possibility that a consensus could eventually be reached. I recognize that the Director-General, in the interest of facilitating such a consensus, has devoted a great deal of hard work to the preparation of a new draft which is now before this General Conference.
6.27 Il am sorry to say that even this new, and in many respects improved, draft does not correspond to our ideas on freedom of information and freedom of expression. Those freedoms, enshrined in our Constitution and guaranteed by international agreements, could be seriously affected by the implemen- tation of this Declaration. Both freedom of information and freedom of expression have been achieved only after long and difficult struggles. Therefore, we would not like to see endangered these rights Which constitute fundamental elements of our political and social system. At the same time we are convinced that many of the problems that gave rise to the drafting of this text may be solved in the foreseeable future without such a Declaration.
6.28 Nevertheless, we do not exclude efforts that may be undertaken during this Conference or at a Special Diplomatic Conference to achieve a text that takes account of all legitimate concerns.
6.29 Mr. President, the present General Conference has before it difficult and delicate problems. Allow me to express the hope that it will not be one of conflict and confrontation, but one similar to the spirit of Nairobi to which I referred at the beginning of this speech and which was essentially a spirit of consensus.
6.30 The Director-General, in a lecture recently delivered before the International Diplomatic Academy in Paris, dealt at length with the principle of consensus in international organizations. We agree with him when he suggests that simple majority decisions are not the most suitable way towards reaching solutions, the implementation of which depends on all members of the international community.
6.31 It is to be hoped that the retention of the Drafting and Negotiating Group, one of the inno- vations of the Nairobi Conference, may facilitate solutions by consensus.
6.32 Another aspect of importance, which was fregently stressed by myself and other Austrian representatives on different occasions, is that, in our opinion, this Organization should refrain from taking up questions which are already under consideration by the General Assembly or by other United Nations organs.
6.33 Indeed, Unesco, and this is confirmed by both the work programme and the agenda before us, is confronted with comprehensive and far-reaching tasks. Above all, it appears to me, that Unesco is called upon to make men and nations aware of our ever growing world-wide interdependence, of the need for a global approach to our pressing problems and above all of the need for human under- standing and tolerance in individual, social and international relations. Thank you Mr. President.
7. Le PRESIDENT. - Je remercie le chef de la délégation de I'Autriche et je donne la parole a S. Exc. M. Hernando Garcia Vespa, ministre de 1'éducation et de la culture et chef de la délégation de la Bolivie.
(8.1) Mr. GARCIA VESPA (Bolivia) (Translation from the Spanish): Mr. President, Bolivia is once again represented in this distinguished forum, where the nations meet periodically to express their ideas, their hopes, their projects and also their difficulties, within the context of education, science and culture. I am honoured indeed to be among so many distinguished representa- tives of the Member States of Unesco, and to transmit friendly greetings to them on behalf of President Juan Pereda Asbun, his government and the Bolivian people. I should like to congratulate the President, Mr. Napoléon LeBlanc, on his election to his high office and wish him every success in his im- portant task. I should also like to express our gratitude to the Director-General, Mr. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, to the Members of the Executive Board and to the Secretariat, who have worked so hard to organize this Conference.
(8.2) Like all developing countires, Bolivia is seeking to establish a new international economic order. This new order must find its expression in something more than abstract proposals and high-sounding theories. In an age disfigured by the flagrant disparities between rich and poor, the new international economic order must be expressed in terms of action and concrete results. We consider that we have a duty to eliminate not only the inequalities that exist between nations but also the sort of inequality that can occur within a given national community.
(8.3) Here I should like to stress an essential point: the new international economic order involves, necessarily and as a matter of priority, the establishment of new national socio-economic orders. In other words, if we wish to bring about structural changes in the international community, we must first tackle the fundamental problem of establishing a more far-reaching policy of change within the individual nations of which that community is composed. We are convinced that it is not possible to build an equitable inter- national society while obstacles still exist to the creation of a new economic and social order at the national level. In Bolivia, the people and the government are together striving to eliminate underdevelopment and dependence, to increase resources and distribute them more equitably and to attain a standard of living, education and culture compatible with human rights and dignity.
(8.4) We consider that there can be no political, economic and social development unless it is preceded or accompanied by the development of education and culture. In our country the political constitution defines education as "the highest function of the State". In theoretical terms, we are seeking to show that in the same way as the people should be protected from physical poverty they should also be protected from cultural poverty. In accordance with this principle, Bolivians can point with pride to the fact that, in global terms, 40 per cent of our national budget is devoted to education. In Bolivia we are making deter- mined efforts to improve education both qualitatively and quantitatively. We have started transforming educational structures. We intend to solve the problem of lack of space and create new approaches, methods and programmes.
(8.5) While there can be no denying that, in this day and age, freedom means casting off the yoke of dependence, of all forms of colonialism and neocolonialism, it is clear to Bolivians that the concept has a wider connotation. Freedom also means man's free access to the benefits of education, science, technology and culture, regarded as the common heritage of mankind.
(8.6) Our nation is at present waging a real battle against ignorance. We have reduced illiteracy from
67.9 per cent in 1950, to 36.7 per cent in 1976, according to statistics derived from a national census carried out with the help of the United Nations.
(8.7) Among the States of Latin America, Bolivia's record in the implementation of agrarian reform is second only to that of Mexico. It was likewise Bolivia which took the initiative, in 1974, of putting forward in this very forum the idea of integrated rural development, which Unesco has incorporated in the Programme and Budget (document 20 C/5). In fact, integrated rural development is a higher stage of agrarian reform. Broadly speaking, what it means both in theory. and in practice is co-ordinating the efforts and resources of the community and the State, in order to break the vicious circle of ignorance, poverty and disease. Without demagogy or self-advertisement, the Government of Bolivia is giving maximum priority to integrated rural development. The three most costly and wide-ranging educational projects in our country are situated in three separate rural areas which differ greatly both in their topography and in their production and forms of cultural expression.
(8.8) Education should not be planned in terms of an élitist or humanistic concept, in which school is necessarily regarded as a prelude to university. Accordingly, we have set up the National Department of Technical Education as a decentralized public body, to train the manpower essential to every developing country.
(8.9) Our cultural policy is aimed, basically, at achieving the following objectives: (a) to promote, increase, strengthen, develop and protect the national culture in all its forms; (b) to preserve and enhance national values and the nation's cultural heritage; (c) to encourage the free flow of information and access to information, education and universal culture. All these objectives are envisaged in terms of the full development of man both as a creator and, in turn, as a recipient of culture and justice.
(8.10) No other world forum could provide such an excellent opportunity as this one does for my country to make a concrete proposal: that we should draw up a Charter of Cultural Rights and Duties of States. Just as it is morally wrong that a world economic regime should be based on the subjugation and spoliation of national economies, so it is equally wrong that one specific form of culture should be imposed to the detriment of local cultures and without regard for their value.
(8.11) In this connection it should be pointed out that the immense technical advance in world communica- tion media, precisely because of its scope, is in danger of becoming an instrument of alienation in the case of peoples who do not possess such resources. Regarding information as the prerogative of no individual or group but as a universal right, we believe that Unesco's proposed objective "to promote national infor- mation policies in the developing countries" should be given all the support it deserves and be directed particularly towards strengthening solidarity and peace and combating war propaganda, terrorism and racialism. The Government of President Juan Pereda Asbún has shown that it fully respects the exercise of freedom of information and freedom of opinion. Moreover, our Government considers that this right should not be confined solely to the mass communication media, but should constitute a social asset.
(8.12) Our conception of cultural policy in Bolivia would not be complete without reference to the grave disadvantage to my country of its lack of direct access to the sea. It was Unesco, in fact, which stressed
352         the importance of maritime communication in Recommendation No. 55 adopted at the Intergovernmental Con- ference on Cultural Policies in Latin America and the Caribbean held in Bogotá this year. Its importance is such that I shall read it in full: The Conference, Convinced: that the promotion of cultural development requires free circulation in every way and particularly access by sea to all peoples and cultures; that for proper cultural development the negative factors which affect the aspirations of peoples who are isolated and excluded from the mainstream of cultural integration must be overcome; that just as economic development is dependent on overcoming the geographical barriers which hinder its natural growth and expansion, so cultural development is slowed down by the lack of maritime sovereignty, Bearing in mind that some States in the region are faced with such a geographical situation, which must be overcome through understanding and international justice, Recommends: that land-locked countries be supported in their efforts to achieve their aspirations and to obtain their own free access to the sea as one of the essential elements for their economic, social and cultural development through the promotion of constructive agreements within the framework of common objec- tives of peace, development and integration, with a view to an early and just solution to the problem.
(8.13) Throughout civilized history, the sea has been a means of communication between men, not only as a means of commercial transport, but as a means of linking the different cultures of the world. I should like to draw to the attention of this distinguished assembly to the adverse effects of the fact that Bolivia has been deprived of its coastal outlet. To keep my country land-locked as it is at present is to violate the principle of equality between nations and to diminish not only our sovereignty but our capacity to achieve full material and spiritual development.
(8.14) The year 1979 will mark the centenary of our unjust geographical confinement. At the time when it became independent, Bolivia had an extensive Pacific seaboard, which was later seized during a fierce war of aggression.
(8.15) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot conclude without mentioning this vital problem affect- ing my country and threatening the peace and security of Latin America. The maritime reintegration of Bolivia is not an aspiration but a necessity and an inalienable, unquestionable right. Our people is confi- dent that the world will show solidarity with its great cause. Our people knows that it will recover its ocean heritage, with its own port, full sovereignty and territorial continuity, for such is the will of the free peoples of the world and such is the supreme objective.of our nation. Thank you.
9. Le PRESIDENT .- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Bolivie et j'invite S. Exc. le général Fernando Dobronsky Ojeda, ministre de l'éducation et de la culture et chef de la délégation de l'Equateur.
(10.1) General DOBRONSKY OJEDA (Ecuador)(Translation from the Spanish): Mr. President, on behalf of my country, whose basic policies are governed by the abiding principles of the self-fulfilment of man and the integrated development of society in accordance with the fundamental tenents of the United Nations system, especially the humanistic philosophy of Unesco, I wish to pay my most cordial respects to all the delegations in this great family of nations. I should also like to congratulate the Director-General and the Secretariat on their most efficient preparations for the Conference and the President and Vice-Presidents on their well-deserved election.
(10.2) Once again the General Conference has brought together men of different political and cultural backgrounds, who are nevertheless united in their deep desire to establish peace, justice and well-being throughout the world; for it is the universal doctrine of Unesco, that principle of mutual respect and coexistence among States which is the essential characteristic of the institutional life of our Organization, that inspires us and brings us together in this forum of intellectual freedom.
(10.3) The nineteenth session of the General Conference, which was set against the magnificently rich background of African culture, was a milestone in the history of Unesco, in that the Organization succeeded in overcoming some of its problems and laying the basis for new projects without losing sight of its funda- mental objectives. This was what was called the spirit of Nairobi. We have now met once again in the same spirit, with renewed faith in the possibility of making positive decisions in that climate of mutual respect which is the abiding characteristic of Unesco.
(10.4) We have tried to implement the resolutions and recommendations adopted at the previous meeting and at others - depending on their nature - in accordance with the possibilities of our respective States. Although the General Conference is not the place to present reports on the specific situation in individual Member States, since there is permanent machinery for this within the context of Member States' relations with the Organization, I should like to mention some activities within the spheres of competence of the Organization which we have been able to develop in my country, in implementation of the decisions of the General Con- ference and in harmony with our own sovereign national policies.
(10.5) As regards education, I have already had an opportunity, at the International Conference on Educa- tion held in Geneva during August and September 1977, to review the general situation in my country and the progress it has made in this field.
(10.6) The purpose of the present meeting is obviously to discuss, within the framework of the Medium- Term Plan and of the Draft Programme and Budget for the forthcoming biennium, the overall policies obtain- ing in the broad sectors which we represent. But it is impossible to dissociate the specific situation in our country from the Organization's general policy and corresponding action, since these are the result of the joint reflection and common aspirations of our States. Once again it has been confirmed that Unesco is - not only through its normative action but also through the spontaneous convergence of common national proposals - our foremost universal forum for broad reflection on man's life and activities. Thus our analysis of the themes of the general debate is closely linked with what we have achieved, what we have been unable to achieve and what we shall try to achieve in the future. My country, for example, has reached a higher level of growth than ever before in the field of education.
(10.7) In response to justified popular demand, the Government gave education top priority, even above health (although the latter continued to receive the substantial State support to which it is entitled). Our Government takes pride in the fact that one-third of the gross domestic product has been devoted to educa- tion: for the building of schools and cultural centres and the massive creation of teaching posts, especially at primary and secondary levels. Higher education, which is autonomous in Ecuador, also received greater State support than ever before.
(10.8) We are, however, well aware that education is not only a quantitative problem but also a basically qualitative one, within the context of integrated development. Accordingly, while not neglecting the promo- tion of ethical, aesthetic and civic values, our new policies, for the most part embodied in recent educational and cultural legislation, place particular emphasis on technical education, which in our opinion is probably the main factor in endogenous development, in the internal liberation of the marginal communities and in the economic independence of the nation. We do not look upon technical training as part of a purely wealth- oriented policy, aimed at achieving higher growth rates for the benefit of certain privileged social classes. It is fundamentally a policy of liberation, since, in so far as we can provide our marginal populations with work, we are contributing at the same time to their freedom, autonomy and participation in national decisions and to a just and balanced economic development. For this reason we have also made our educa- tion system work-oriented, in accordance with the universal principle of education for development.
(10.9) We have oriented technical education mainly towards the rural sector - more specifically towards the development of agriculture linked with the self-management of the rural communities - and it is in rural areas that our new technical education institutes are situated. In the larger towns, in response to natural demand, technical institutes of an industrial and artisanal nature have been set up. We are trying in this way to reconcile the different branches of growth, so that the development of one branch does not prejudice that of the others or distort the pattern of development and social progress. What would not have been possible was for a country which had been suffering all the hardships of underdevelopment and had then, owing to the exploitation of oil, experienced sudden economic expansion with its accompanying inflation and other growing pains, simply to go on receiving money and spending it on the basis of purely short-term criteria.
(10.10) From this global analysis and comprehensive approach emerged our Government's decision to diversify Ecuador's economy and to lay the foundations of a balanced, equitable development that would meet the aspirations of our people. The means adopted to implement this decision included substantial investment in the education sector and, within that sector, the establishment of the technical education system, which, by creating new sources of employment, gives a powerful stimulus to progress and provides the basis upon which to build a just society in which all human rights are fully respected and actively promoted - an obligation which our government is proud to have ensured. We consider that human rights are not only the political rights of traditional democracy, but form a coherent whole and are basically socio-economic and cultural in character. A people cannot express its will nor be aware of its political rights unless its social, economic and cultural rights are fully assured at the same time.
(10.11) Regarded in this way, education, as the principal vehicle of culture in its widest sense, becomes the most effective tool for achieving integrated development and hence for establishing well-being, freedom, security and peace. This is our simple yet noble philosophy, which transcends passing fashions of ideology. Thus our aims coincide with Unesco's basic principles and we wish to congratulate the Director-General on the enhanced precision and theoretical and practical coherence with which the Organization's objectives have been set out in the Draft Programme and Budget and in the Draft Adjustments to the Medium-Term Plan. We attach particular importance to the Draft Adjustments, with their emphasis on such major objectives as technical education, the promotion of women and the role of youth, since the best way to achieve integrated human and social development is through the sharing of responsibility among men and women and the prepara- tion of young people to shoulder their present and future responsibilities.
(10.12) Lifelong education, if conceived in terms of participation, becomes the best way of establishing and sustaining true democracy. It consists not the merely in the continued formal training of certain groups to the detriment of others, but in a process of community action which makes it possible to eliminate paternalism on the part of the State or of the traditionally privileged classes, thus enabling the various communities to assume their responsibilities and influence national decisions. Women and young people cannot be excluded from such decisions.
(10.13) The new Law on Education and Culture, the first Law on Physical Education, Sport and Recreation and the new structure of the integrated system have been conceived on the basis of this integrating and liberating view of man and with the aim of promoting permanent social development. Without any govern- mental prompting, our people chose a draft Constitution which embodying precisely those principles of humanism and integrated change which we had already introduced into our educational legislation a few months previously. In other words, it is the people who have begun to decide their own destiny. Never
357    before have they had this opportunity. This is a source of pride for the Armed Forces which administering my country and provides historical justification for their assumption of power, since it permits and guarantees the free expression of the popular will in full accordance with the new laws and plans which our administra- tion had already proposed to the nation.
(10.14) Educational philosophy thus played a cardinal role in determining the popular decision. Indeed, we believe that this was a step forward in genuine political education, and hence enormously important if one regards politics, in the true sense of the word, as man's noblest activity.
(10.15) The Ecuadorian people has accepted, both expressly and by implication, the legal framework and the programmatic bases for national development, and is now clamouring for that development to proceed. We, the leaders, do not shirk our responsibilities but discharge them to the best of our ability, although many problems remain which we are solving within the limits of our possibilities and of the sometimes unfore- seeable circumstances surrounding an accelerated development process, whose present phase is of vital importance for the future of the nation.
(10.16) But we cannot overlook the great problem faced by the majority of the developing countries: the illiteracy of large sectors of the population, particularly in rural areas. That is why one of our first measures under the new action programme has been the adoption of a radically altered approach to literacy training. Here too, guided by the experience of the past and the new techniques tried out in other areas, we have endeavoured to introduce an element of participation. If literacy training is of priority importance in laying the foundations of a process of integral democratization, its own mechanisms must also be made democratic. We have already tried out the collaborative, participation-based method in certain sectors and communities, and it will not be long before our literacy campaign becomes a truly large-scale, collective, integral activity. We are at the stage of arousing public awareness of the problem and the community response has been positive. We believe that a really massive onslaught on illiteracy is a matter not merely of educational policy but of mobilizing the entire nation in a war to the death against ignorance and social marginality.
(10.17) In the field of science and technology, after completing the preliminary groundwork we have started to determine basic policies and to establish a multi-sectoral national system aimed at concerting the various hitherto unco-ordinated efforts in this field and ensuring that the action taken is in the best interests of our national sovereignty. Like other countries, we suffer from a lack of qualified manpower in the different areas of science, and from the problems resulting from the transfer of foreign technology.
(10.18) Our basic belief is that science is universal and that it is an offence against humanity for it to be concealed from the public view and concentrated in a few privileged countries and sectors of the interna- tional community. We are therefore planning to link science policies with educational and cultural policies so that the education of our people, and especially its technical training, may be the subject of a single, co-ordinated endeavour. Our countries will obviously continue to depend on foreign technology. But if we adopt such concerted policies, guided by a feeling of healthy nationalism untainted by chauvinism, we shall be able in the short term to achieve an acceptable balance in the importation of technology and this will be an important means of ensuring our endogenous development and the genuine exercise of our national sover- eignty.
(10.19) If we add to these policies those concerning the protection of the cultural heritage and the develop- ment of our astonishingly rich and varied forms of expression - for these, too, our country prides itself on considering to be matters of priority importance, as it has shown in the various Unesco meetings on cultural problems, especially the Intergovernmental Conference held at Bogota in January this year and as it has proved by the considerable support granted to the whole range of Ecuadorian cultural institutions, both public and private - it will be seen that we have grounds for optimism concerning our country's future. Unesco is aware of our plans and has supplied us with technical assistance, particularly with regard to the preservation of our country's varied and rich cultural heritage. Moreover, the cultural, scientific and educational policies of our State are not focused on human activity alone but on the indivisible link between man and his environment. Our heritage comprises the natural environment and the works of man. For us the link between man and nature is the one truly indissoluble bond.
(10.20) This brief account of our ideas and activities is solely aimed at demonstrating our full agreement with Unesco's principles, plans and programmes, and specifically with its Medium-Term Plan and the Draft Programme and Budget submitted by the Director-General which, in principle and in general terms, we accept and on which we congratulate the Director-General once again. Other matters concerning the pro- gramme for the coming biennium may be disucssed in the Commissions.
(10.21) Regarding communication, our State and our people agree that it is of inestimable importance. We consider that communication is a right and that it is the duty of the authorities to ensure its unhampered development with a view to its being of service to the whole of society. We reaffirm our principles concern- ing respect for freedom of expression. We have shown tolerance and encourage dialogue with public opinion. But we believe that the role of the information media should be precisely that of awakening the public and encouraging it to take part in the overall process of development, especially of education, science and culture, for the media are in fact a scientific and technical result of human talent and are excellent instru- ments of education and cultural democratization when the men who are in charge of them are conscious of this highly responsible role.
(10.22) In recent years Unesco has organized expert meetings and intergovernmental conferences on topics within its fields of competence in Latin America. All these gatherings have contributed to our own national philosophy. But we particularly welcome and support the resolutions and recommendations of four major intergovernmental meetings: that on Education in Venezuela, that on Communication Policies in Costa Rica, that on Cultural Policies in Colombia and the meeting of Directors of National Councils for Science Policy which I had the honour of presiding over in Quito, Ecuador, in March this year.
(10.23) Ecuador considers that the debates, resolutions and recommendations of these major meetings, which between them embrace the whole spectrum of Unesco's activities, indicate the path which our nations should follow in their national policies and in international relations and co-operation. In accepting these decisions and ratifying them in the General Conference, our States not only fully realize the part they have to play in the development of education, science and culture in their countries but are also contributing to understanding, to co-operation and to peace among our peoples in the region, and therefore, since Latin America and the Caribbean constitute the melting pot of the peoples and cultures of the entire world, to the great universal alliance with our friends in every continent.
(10.24) The Executive Board and the Secretariat of Unesco, under the wise leadership of the Director- General, have spared no effort to foster international relations and activities, to render technical assistance effective and to improve the administration of our Organization. Among the many praiseworthy measures adopted, we particularly appreciate the policy of decentralization established by the General Conference, endorsed by the Executive Board and embarked on by the Director-General. We urge the Director-General to continue implementing this policy and pledge him our support in it, especially with regard to the role which should be played by the Regional Offices, some of which are at the same time direct emanations of the Secretariat and hence valid interlocutors for our governments, without prejudice to the role played by our National Commissions.
(10.25) I should also like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the community of peoples and nations speaking the language of Cervantes, to urge that Spanish be given far more importance as a working language of the Secretariat. The Spanish-speaking States undoubtedly constitute the largest linguistic group in an international organization such as ours, and with all due respect to the other languages which are vehicles of great ancient and modern cultures, we feel that the staff at Headquarters should take this fact into account.
(10.26) The Director-General's visit to various countries in the region, including my own, was a historic event in the relations between our States and Unesco. It gave the Director-General an opportunity to acquaint himself personally with our aspirations and concerns and with the strength of our faith in Unesco's destiny.
(10.27) Finally, I should like to congratulate the Executive Board and the Director-General on the excellent way in which they have discharged their duties, and also to express my Government's wholehearted support for the wise guidelines established by them in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and the decisions of the General Conference.
(10.28) In his message for International Literacy Day, the Director-General said that the millions of men of goodwill involved should combine their scattered efforts in that great activity. Paraphrasing Mr. M'Bow's inspired words, I should like to say that Unesco's most noble function at present and in the future is and will continue to be to serve as a universal forum for the voices and the conscious efforts of men of goodwill. Thank you.
11. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de l'Equateur et je donne la parole à S. Exc. M. Kjoelv Egeland, ministre de l'éducation et des affaires ecclésiastiques et chef de la délégation de la Norvège.
12.1 Mr. EGELAND (Norway): Mr. President, may I first take the opportunity of congratulating the Director-General and his collaborators in the Secretariat on the manner in which the Draft Programme and Budget for the next biennium has been prepared, which marks an improvement upon earlier drafts. I hope for further improvements in the future, particularly in the direction of making this basic document more easy to read and understand.
12.2 Mr. President, thé Norwegian Government has for the past 30 years given its full support to the evolution of Unesco, primarily because it considers Unesco to be an important tool for the solution of many of the challenges of humanity: the promotion of peaceful relations among nations; the creation of a just economic world order; the improvement of the conditions of the underprivileged; and the participation of all in human knowledge and understanding. We have applauded the growth of the Organization's activities in the past, and we welcome the growth proposed for the programme under consideration. We shall thus vote in favour of the budget level proposed by the Executive Board. ,
12.3 But no matter which total budget the General Conference may finally agree upon, it is in any case essential that Unesco's financial and intellectual resources be put to the most beneficial use. This calls for stricter concentration on central objectives, which should increase the Organization's impact in decisive fields. We realize that the Medium-Term Plan, together with the proposed adjust- ments, marks a step in this direction. Since the budget cycles of the United Nations system are to be harmonized in 1982, that year would seem to provide an ideal opportunity for the adoption of the next Medium-Term Plan, and the Nordic countries will propose an extraordinary session of the General Conference for that purpose.
12.4 Mr. President, one of Unesco's main tasks must, in my opinion, be to improve the conditions of the underprivileged. In the first place, this must involve an effort on behalf of underprivileged countries. In all its fields of competence - education and science, culture and communication - Unesco's work must, more than anything else, be of help to the countries that stand in greatest need of assistance. An essential part of the Organization's work must therefore be to contribute to the establishment of a new and just international economic order. The enormous economic and social distance which separates the majority of the world's population, living in need and poverty, from the rich minority, is one of the basic problems facing us today. This situation calls for fundamental changes in the world, changes in which aH the organizations of the United Nations family, including Unesco, have their part to play. But economic and social differences do not merely exist between different countries. Within each of them there are groups of different kinds whose position is rela- tively weak. This is often the case of rural populations on one hand, and the poor in the cities on the other. In many cases the living conditions of various ethnic, cultural and social minorities are difficult, while people suffering from various handicaps rarely enjoy a standard of living comparable to that of the rest of the population.
12.5 Among the underprivileged people of the world, the position of women and children is very special. Children are the most defenceless, impressionable and vulnerable members of any group or
359    society. They depend on adults for the satisfaction of their most basic needs and desires, and these are often neglected, misinterpreted or forgotten. The International Year of the Child should serve as a reminder of the situation, the needs and the true welfare of children. When we take decisions on behalf of and concerning children, we should be particularly vigilant in ensuring that our actions and programmes really correspond to their interests, and do not merely reflect what the grown-up society finds convenient.
12.6 This century has been called the century of the child, and it is true that we probably know more about children than before. But this knowledge has not led to a generally improved childhood for all the members of the rising generation. In the developing countries, their conditions are in many places such that even their basic needs for survival are neglected, not to mention other and more advanced prerequisites to healthy physical and mental growth and development. In the indus- trialized countries, children also face threats to harmonious development, sometimes to their very survival. They die or become invalids, as victims of modern traffic; they are often neglected by grown-ups as a result of hard social conditions; they lose their stable and close relations with adults as a result of social mobility and alienated working conditions. In these and other ways, their culture is often threatened. Commercial interests of various kinds add to the menaces to children in the developed part of the world.
12.7 Children should be the collective responsibility of their mothers, their fathers and society as a whole. Up to now, however, this responsibility has rested too much with the mothers alone. The weak have been given the responsibility of taking care of the still weaker. At the same time, the needs of children have often been used as an argument, even as a weapon, against women in their fight for freedom and equality. Changes in the female role must therefore be seen in relation to the male role, and to the organization of society as a whole. Accordingly, my Government considers the International Year of the Child to be a continuation of the work done under the World Population Plan of Action and during the United Nations Decade for Women.
12.8 The organization of child care and family life is of basic importance for the position of women. The establishment of social services for children, as well as participation by men in household work and family life, are necessary preconditions for the participation of women in society on an equal footing with men. The full development of a country in any sense and respect will depend upon participation of women as well as men in every social field. Nevertheless, throughout the world, women have experienced and still suffer from discrimination and oppression. Problems related to development often strike women harder than men, but nowhere do the former have their just share of the power of society. This why the International Women's Year Conference in Mexico in 1975 stressed, as a basic claim, that women should obtain greater and equal participation with men at all levels of decision-making, and thus contribute in a decisive manner to the acceleration of social development.
12.9 The World Conference of the United Nations Decade for Women will take place in 1980. Important subthemes for this Conference will be "Employment, Health and Education". The overall objective of this Conference will be the review and evaluation of progress made in the first half of the Decade, and the recommendation of changes and readjustments for the second half. It has been recommended that the Conference place emphasis on the elaboration of new strategies for integrating women into the developmental process, particularly through the promotion of economic and employment opportunities on an equal footing with men, through inter alia, the provision of adequate health and educational facilities. The preparatory work of the Conference should thus be carried out accordingly, and it will be important for Unesco to participate fully, within its fields of competence, in this work.
12.10 The challenge to improve the position of women also concerns Unesco in its own work. In all the Organization's programmes and activites, it must make sure that the interests and needs of women are taken fully into account. In the execution of its own programmes, Unesco employs a great number of consultants and experts for field work, and here the need is to ensure the best possible balance of women and men in such posts. Furthermore, there is also a need to ensure greater participation by women in the training courses, seminars, exchange programmes, scholarships and other similar activities organized or administered by Unesco. To this end, my Government has tabled a draft resolution which we hope will obtain the support of the General Conference.
12.11 In connection with the recruitment of staff for the Unesco Secretariat I would like to remind you of the resolution adopted on that subject at the nineteenth session of the General Conference
(19 C/Resolution 25.11, Part II). The statistics now presented in the report of the Joint Inspection Unit show that some 23 per cent of the staff in the Professional category and above are women. I must admit that I do not consider this percentage satisfactory - especially when most of the women concerned are employed at the lowest levels, and very few at the highest levels. To eliminate discrimi- nation against women, particularly at the higher levels of decision-making, an active and continuous effort is required; not only direct, but also indirect forms of discrimination must be attacked. This means that the usual procedures for employment and recruitment must also be questioned and discussed in the light of their effect on the position of women. In many respects, my Government favours the use of quota systems to ensure that women are recruited to important positions and appointments.
12.12 Mr. President, in the development of the countries of the world, Unesco has a special contri- bution to make to the evolution and communication of knowledge and understanding. Science and technology are major driving forces for the creation and development of modern societies, with vast consequences as far as social conditions, cultural identity and the life of citizens are concerned. It is therefore imperative for each country to be in a position to build up its knowledge concerning the economic, social and cultural conditions for, as well as the consequences of different technologies, and to develop an endogenous scientific and technological capacity.
12.13 The present concentration of scientific and technological capabilities in the industrialized countries is, however, an obstacle to the development of independent capabilities in the developing countries. The latter should be able to draw upon knowledge developed in the industrialized world. They should be able to do so in full awareness of the positive and negative consequences of available technologies, in order to make choices based on their own evaluation.
12.14 1 am convinced that the participation of the population in the creation, selection, adaptation and application of technology - including the utilization of traditional knowledge - is indispensable if countries and peoples are to generate the political and socio-cultural will to overcome development problems and to strengthen their self-reliance.
12.15 My Government believes that the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development in 1979 should stress the importance of social and cultural factors in technological development. To this end, we shall consult with other delegations on the preparation of a possible draft resolution in which the Director-General of this Organization might be invited to strengthen Unesco's participation in the preparations for the Conference, with particular reference to the social and natural sciences. We are also of the opinion that Unesco should be prepared to contribute very actively to the follow-up to the Conference, particularly in regard to development and to the use of science and technology in accordance with social and cultural needs and objectives.
12.16 In view of the impact and role of the mass media in education, in distribution of news and as cultural intermediaries, it is most natural that Unesco take a lively interest in these media. Their role has extremely important international aspects, such as the question of balanced distribution in the international exchange of news, the dominance in information of the rich countries and the cultural dominance of the great and powerful nations. Through funds-in-trust projects my Govern- ment is supporting some communication projects in developing countries, such as the build-up of local newspaper and radio systems. I was glad to notice that the Director-General in his oral report especially mentioned the African communications manpower training project which a group of Nordic countries has recently agreed to finance in common.
12.17 Technological development in the communication field, including the rapidly expanding video industry and the television satellite technology tend to increase the trend towards internationalization and commercialization of ‘the media. In the nature of things, small countries and their cultural activities suffer greater exposure to this development. With their limited resources they are also potential victims of an information dominance exercised by greater and wealthier nations. As a small nation, Norway has been particularly preoccupied with the recent developments within the field of the mass media. We have been concerned especially with the role of the State in this connection. The question has been asked: Do we really need a State media policy in a democratic society?
12.18 I would rather put it this way, Mr. President: State practices have a decisive impact on the media whether deliberately intended or not, just as the mass media have a tremendous impact upon society. The State and the media are far more mutually interdependent than we realize. Therefore, the fundamental question is not whether there should be a media policy or not. The question is to what extent the State, as such, should take a consciously deliberate position, if it should work out an integrated policy, and, in that case, how it should be carried through.
12.19 1 am fully aware that we here deal with sensitive problems in a democratic society. Let me therefore stress that a mass media policy does not mean State interference in the actual production and editing of the contents of the media. On the contrary: in my view a media policy means that the State accepts its important, but clearly limited role, that we try to find out what should be the business of public authorities and what should be left to others or left alone. We all agree that governments have a responsibility for carrying through the political goals of our societies. In this connection, the media may be an instrument of great importance. But they could and should be used only on their own terms; it is a paramount responsibility for democratic governments to safe- guard full freedom of expression and thought in accordance with constitution and tradition.
12.20 In Norway, as in most countries, we do not have a coherent mass media policy, but we have a number of more or less clearly defined policies for each type of media. Therefore we cannot in general foresee the consequences of measures taken in one field of the media upon other fields, nor upon cultural development and society as a whole. Nevertheless, in the past few years we have felt the need to significantly increase our support to some media, for example to the press and to film production, because without such action the development of our democracy and our culture would have suffered.
12.21 Satellite technology can play an important role in education. It can also contribute to inter- national cultural exchange and to the furtherance of international understanding. But there are other aspects as well. On the global scene, there is the danger that the television satellite tech- nology might contribute to strengthening the present information dominance of the rich countries and thus threaten cultural activities in the small nations. The rich countries can afford the television satellite technology and are able to make full use of it - the developing countries will lag behind, with still greater information imbalance as a result.
12.22 To conclude: satellite technology has advanced so fast that it is at present far ahead of the international political decision process. If care is not taken the cultural sovereignty of nations could be threatened. Also, through its very formidable effect, this technique has the power to menace the quality of cultural standards with fatal results. But there is also the possibility of positive results from this technology and we all have our share of responsibility for what is achieved. We should take the time we need to evaluate and judge the problems posed by this new technology.
12.23 In many countries, including my own, the press has reacted strongly against the Organization's efforts to work out a Declaration on the international responsibilities of the mass media. Some of these reactions are, I think, based on misunderstandings concerning both the draft text and its implications. As I understand it, this draft is the starting point for the work of the General Con- ference on the declaration, for discussion and deliberation and is not our final word. The Director- General in his intervention yesterday rightly called for a constructive dialogue on the content and interpretation of the text. I fully share his observation that a Declaration will be of no value if it does not have the largest possible measure of agreement, as was stressed so strongly by the General Conference at Nairobi. My delegation is ready to participate in consultations on the basis of the present draft, due consideration being given to the objections raised to it so far, in the hope of arriving at such an agreement.
12.24 Allow me to stress my country's tradition and ideology in this matter. We believe that the press must be free to express its opinions, whether or not they are palatable to the authorities. We hold - to all practical effect - the unanimous opinion that the mass media have a very important critical function in our society. On the other hand, the elected leaders of the community should be allowed to express their opinions on the function and performance of the media. I interpret the Draft Declaration as an expression of expectation of better equilibrium in the streams of information in the world, and not as a pretext to the introduction or enforcement of State interference. The final responsibility for what is expressed, or not expressed, through the media should reside wich journalists, broadcasters and the general public, which should also have the right to communicate.
12.25 On the basis of this principle and expectation, I declare that my delegation will be prepared to take part in further work on this question. Furthermore, I believe that given due willingness to be constructive, this Conference will achieve the consensus which is essential in the solution of this delicate problem. Thank you Mr. President.
13. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Norvege et j'invite S. Exc. M. Necdet Ugur, ministre de l'éducation et chef de la délégation de la Turquie, à prendre la parole.
14.1 M. UGUR (Turquie).- Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, je tiens en premier lieu à exprimer, en mon nom personnel et au nom de ma délégation, mes plus vives félicitations au Président pour son élection. Monsieur le Président, je suis convaincu que sous votre présidence avisée et éclairée, les travaux de cette vingtième session de la Conférence générale appor- teront des solutions aux problèmes complexes qui se trouvent à notre ordre du jour.
14.2 Je voudrais également adresser nos remerciements les plus sincères à notre Directeur général pour la contribution remarquable qu'il a apportée à l'activité de notre Organisation, comme en té- moignent d'ailleurs les rapports et projets soumis à notre examen. Son autorité personnelle et l'atta- chement profond qu'il porte à nos grands idéaux ne cessent de stimuler et d'enrichir l'oeuvre de culture et de civilisation de notre Organisation.
14.3 Monsieur le Président, notre session se tient à un moment difficile où le monde est confronté à des problèmes urgents dont la solution exige une approche globale. A cet égard, il incombe à notre Organisation de contribuer à la mobilisation de l'opinion publique mondiale, à l'éducation des masses et à la diffusion de l'information sur ces problèmes capitaux.
14.4 Je vais m'arrêter brièvement sur quelques-uns d'entre eux, en commençant par le rôle de l'Unesco dans la création d'une opinion publique favorable à l'arrêt de la course aux armements et le passage au désarmement, qui est à notre ordre du jour. Il est significatif que la date de l'ouverture de notre Conférence générale ait coïncidé avec celle de la semaine proclamée par les Nations Unies pour la promotion des objectifs du désarmement. La Turquie est convaincue que la paix ne peut être garantie que par un désarmement général et complet sous contrôle international efficace. Elle attache une importance primordiale à l'intensification de la collaboration entre les nations non seulement dans les sphères politique et économique, mais tout autant dans les domaines culturel et scientifique. C'est en effet par une telle collaboration toujours plus étroite et intense que peut s'instaurer dans les esprits cette confiance profonde qui incitera les hommes à abandonner la course aux armements et à oeuvrer pour la paix, la compréhension mutuelle et le bien-être commun. L'Unesco est appelée à susciter dans les esprits une attitude favorable à la réalisation de ce but auquel aspire l'humanité tout entière.
14.5 D'autre part, on ne saurait minimiser la tâche dévolue à l'Unesco en ce qui concerne la pro- motion des droits de l'homme et l'élimination des derniers vestiges du colonialisme et du racisme. La Turquie a toujours appuyé dans les instances internationales les initiatives visant la protection effec- tive des droits de l'homme et de la dignité humaine, d'autant qu'une telle protection constitue le fondement même de l'ordre constitutionnel turc.
14.6 Monsieur le Président, l'homme doit être à l'abri non seulement de l'oppression et de l'injustice mais également de la faim et du dénuement. L'établissement d'un nouvel ordre économique inter- national et la contribution de l'Unesco à son instauration revêtent donc une importance primordiale. Il est évident qu'un tel ordre ne s'établira pas du jour au lendemain. Là encore, c'est sur les esprits qu'il faut agir en premier lieu. La transformation subie par l'économie mondiale et l'adoption de nouvelles approches des problèmes du développement doivent nous amener à mettre sur pied une nouvelle stratégie qui tiendrait compte du stade actuel du processus de négociation économique inter- nationale ainsi que de l'évolution éventuelle de la notion de nouvel ordre économique. L'Unesco peut
362    apporter une contribution précieuse à l'élaboration de ces nouvelles notions, méthodes et approches. Elle peut, par exemple, prêter son concours à l'élaboration d'un code de conduite pour les sociétés multinationales et à l'élargissement de l'accès des pays en développement à la technologie.
14.7 D'autre part, un nouvel ordre économique doit reposer sur certains éléments fondamentaux qui présupposent la solution de problèmes tels que l'octroi d'un traitement non discriminatoire et préfé- rentiel aux produits manufacturés des pays en développement, la garantie de prix plus stables et plus élevés pour les produits de base, une participation plus équitable des pays en développement aux décisions monétaires internationales, l'augmentation du volume des ressources financières transfé- rés aux pays en développement. La mise en place de ces éléments fondamentaux requiert un travail de persuasion, auquel l'Unesco ne saurait rester étrangère.
14.8 Enfin, dans un monde dominé par l'injustice et les disparités économiques et sociales, il est des problèmes urgents auxquels les pays en voie de développement doivent faire face, problèmes qui ne peuvent attendre l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international. Dans le travail de mobi- lisation de l'opinion publique mondiale devant ces problèmes urgents, le rôle de l'Unesco ne saurait être sousestimé. ‘A cette occasion, je tiens ici à féliciter notre Directeur général pour l'excellent rapport qu'il nous a soumis sur le nouvel ordre économique.
14.9 Monsieur le Président, les problèmes de l'éducation qui depuis toujours préoccupent l'Unesco sous leurs multiples aspects se posent de manière presque identique dans mon pays, mais avec d'au- tant plus d'acuité que les besoins d'instruction et d'éducation du peuple turc sont à la mesure de la croissance de sa population et de ses aspirations. Celui qui vit dans une société donnée, en Turquie comme partout ailleurs, et qui par son activité participe à la production nationale, a le droit de ne pas se contenter de ce qu'il peut tirer de sa seule expérience personnelle, et d'exiger la part d'édu- cation et d'enseignement que chaque Etat digne de ce nom doit être en mesure d'assurer à ses citoyens.
14.10 L'enseignement préscolaire revêt donc une importance primordiale en Turquie, de même que la modernisation de l'actuel système d'enseignement. Celui-ci doit répondre aux nécessités d'un monde où les méthodes et les moyens de l'enseignement changent constamment. Amélioration des normes et de la qualité de l'enseignement, certes, mais aussi de la qualité et de la condition sociale de l'ensei- gnant qui, en Turquie, plus qu'ailleurs peut-être, rencontre dans l'exercice de ses fonctions des difficultés dues à la structure politique et géographique du pays.
14.11 En assurant dans la mesure du possible l'égalité des chances d'éducation à tous ceux qui veulent avoir leur part d'instruction, nous aurons aussi réalisé la démocratisation de l'enseignement à laquelle nous tenons tout particulièrement.
14.12 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais formuler quelques souhaits quant aux travaux futurs de l'Organisation. L'éducation, le développement culturel et les relations avec leur pays d'origine des travailleurs migrants et de leurs enfants constituent un problème qui nous préoccupe toujours da- vantage pour des raisons que je n'ai pas besoin d'expliquer. Dans ce cadre, nous nous devons de souligner avec satisfaction la place réservée par l'Unesco, parmi toutes ses activités, aux problèmes de l'éducation des travailleurs migrants et de leurs familles.
14.13 Il va sans dire que les initiatives prises à cet effet par les instances internationales cons- tituent une contribution substantielle aux efforts déjà accomplis sur le plan bilatéral. Par ses acti- vités, l'Unesco donnera une nouvelle dimension géographique à ces problèmes et contribuera large- ment à les résoudre. Nous souhaitons que l'action de l'Organisation soit coordonnée avec celle d'autres organisations internationales ; la Turquie sera en tout cas toujours prête à collaborer aux efforts qui seront entrepris dans ce sens.
14.14 Il est un autre problème qui intéresse particulièrement mon pays : c'est celui que posent les séismes qui provoquent chaque année de si nombreuses pertes de vies humaines et de biens culturels inestimables. La Turquie, qui se trouve elle-même dans une zone où les secousses sismiques sont très fréquentes, désirerait voir l'Unesco accorder l'importance qu'elles méritent aux études relatives aux séismes.
14.15 Enfin quelques mots sur la conservation des biens culturels d'Anatolie. Les richesses histo- riques et ‘archéologiques de la Turquie n'ont pas besoin d'être signalées. Ces monuments et ces sites - je pense, pour n'en citer qu'un exemple, à la Cappadoce, site unique au monde - sont le patrimoine commun de toutes les civilisations qui se sont succédées sur une terre plusieurs fois millénaire. Leur nombre et leur variété d'une part, et l'ampleur des moyens qu'ils nécessitent d'autre part nous amènent à demander à l'Unesco de leur témoigner une attention toute particulière.
14.16 Je ne voudrais pas passer sous silence certaines activités entreprises au cours des deux dernières années par mon pays en commun avec l'Unesco, notamment le séminaire sur les droits de l'homme organisé par la Faculté des sciences politiques de l'Université d'Ankara, les travaux d'ex- perts dans le domaine de l'énergie solaire, l'envoi de matériel et l'échange de spécialistes pour la préservation des livres rares de la Bibliothèque centrale de l'Université d'Istanbul, les travaux d'experts pour la protection des richesses architecturales et culturelles de la ville d'Istanbul et enfin le séminaire concernant le MAB organisé en Turquie. J'exprime l'espoir que ces activités se pour- suivront dans l'avenir pour le bien de tous.
14.17 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais aussi signaler la conférence des commissions nationales des pays balkaniques pour l'Unesco qui a eu lieu au mois de septembre à Izmir, dont le principal objectif était le développement de la coopération entre les commissions balkaniques par la mise sur pied de
363    programmes conjoints sur les problémes d'intérét commun, dans l'esprit des résolutions et des plans de travail adoptés par la Conférence générale, et leur exécution aux niveaux national et sous-régional. A cet effet, certains projets de résolution seront soumis a la Conférence.
14.18 Après ce bref apergu, Monsieur le Président, je dois dire, au nom de ma délégation que, quitte a revenir sur les détails au cours des travaux des commissions, nous approuvons dans ses grandes lignes le Projet de programme et de budget qui nous est présenté.
14.19 Monsieur le Président, en 1981, la Turquie célébrera le centième anniversaire de la naissance de Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, fondateur de la République turque mais aussi génial réformateur de l'en- seignement, qui a permis à la Turquie de s'ouvrir sur le monde en très peu de temps et ce dans tous les domaines de la culture. Je rappellerai ici l'intérêt que l'Unesco avait déjà porté à la mémoire d'Atatürk en 1963, lors du vingt-cinquième anniversaire de sa mort. Je formulerai donc le voeu que notre Organisation manifeste à nouveau cet intérêt en soutenant par des moyens appropriés les projets que nous allons présenter prochainement pour célébrer le centième anniversaire de la nais- sance de cet homme dont la stature ne cesse de grandir dans le monde, puisqu'il est le symbole non seulement de la lutte pour l'indépendance et la liberté des peuples opprimés, mais aussi de la récon- ciliation, de l'entente et de la paix. N'avait-il pas prophétisé dès les années vingt : "Le colonialisme et l'impérialisme disparaîtront de ce monde, et s'ouvrira une ère d'harmonie et de coopération ne connaissant aucune distinction de couleur, de religion et de race entre les nations."
14.20 Permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président de conclure en réaffirmant que la Turquie, fidèle à la ligne de progrès et de paix tracée par Atatürk, est déterminée à fournir à l'Unesco tout son appui et à soutenir son action en vue d'assurer, par la concertation et le dialogue, l'avènement d'un monde libre et juste. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
15.1 Le PRESIDENT .- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Turquie.
15.2 La séance est levée. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. La séance est levée à 13 heures Se levanta la sesión a las 13 Заседание закрывается в 13 час. ABI La Dun JN ALI dude) cas,