Fifteenth plenary meeting
2 November 1978 at 10,40 a, m. President: Mr. LEBLANC (Canada) Quinzième séance plénière
2 novembre 1978 à 10 h. 40 Président : M. LEBLANC (Canada) Décimoquinta sesion plenaria
1.1 Le PRESIDENT.- Mesdames, Messieurs, avant de poursuivre le débat de politique générale, je voudrais vous annoncer que cet après-midi se déroulera une cérémonie dans le VIe bâtiment, où sera inaugurée une oeuvre monumentale offerte par le Kenya en témoignage des relations d'amitié qui existent entre ce pays et l'Unesco.
1.2 La séance plénière de cet après-midi sera en grande partie consacrée à l'examen des points 25,
26 et 27 de l'ordre du jour. Nous entendrons d'abord le rapport du Comité juridique sur ces points et nous procéderons ensuite à un débat. La Conférence n'est pas appelée à prendre une décision sur la question qui fait l'objet de ces points de l'ordre du jour, mais à donner des directives pour s'assu- rer que des études approfondies seront faites en vue d'un examen ultérieur plus satisfaisant de cette question à sa vingt et unième session sans doute.
1.3 Je donne la parole à M. Bernard Neugebauer, vice-ministre des affaires étrangères, président de la Commission de la République démocratique allemande pour l'Unesco et chef de la délégation de la République démocratique allemande.
2.1 Mr. NEUGEBAUER (German Democratic Republic): Mr. President, first of all I wish to offer you my warm congratulations on your election to the presidency of the twentieth session of the General Conference. I am convinced that under your able guidance the Conference will engage in successful work. On behalf of the delegation of the German Democratic Republic, allow me also to extend our warmest greetings and wishes to the Conference, and to thank the Director-General for his untiring efforts in the service of our Organization.
2.2 My delegation would like to avail itself of this opportunity to express its profound satisfaction at the admission of Namibia as the 145th Member State of Unesco, and to convey its cordial congratu- lations to the Namibian people. The German Democratic Republic is among those States which have consistently and uncompromisingly advocated total independence for Namibia and unrestricted respect for its territorial integrity. At the same time, my delegation values Namibia's admission to our Organization as an expression of, and contribution to, the implementation of the inalienable right of the Namibian people to national independence, as was reaffirmed in the final documents of the Ninth Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly on this subject.
15 2.3 The German Democratic Republic, which has always stood unreservedly on the side of those who are fighting against imperialism, colonialism and racism, and for national sovereignty and social progress, considers solidarity with the peoples struggling for their national independence, freedom and self-determination to be an unshakable principle of its foreign policy. My delegation would therefore like to voice its satisfaction with the assistance given by Unesco to the programme of the United Nations Council for Namibia, and its confidence that membership in Unesco will give fresh impetus to the aspirations of the Namibian people, led by the South West African People's Organ- ization (SWAPO), for independence and self-determination, and at the same time strengthen the international front against the apartheid regime in South Africa.
2.4 Mr. President, as the supreme body of our Organization, the General Conference is called upon to evaluate what has been achieved and to set guidelines for the future. To this end, my delegation considers it necessary and appropriate to indicate the position of the Government of the German Democratic Republic on key problems facing Unesco, and to make proposals for the future effective activity of our Organization. In doing so, my delegation takes account of the exhaustive Report of the Director-General on the Activities of the Organization in 1975-1976 (20 C/3) and his valuable introduction to the general policy debate (20 C/INF.9).
2.5 It is impossible to analyse here in great detail all the manifold and dynamic activities of our Organization. We shall therefore take the opportunity, in the commissions and in the subsequent deliberations of the plenary, to complement the present statement and to comment in greater detail on the position of the German Democratic Republic, as well as to submit additional proposals .*
2.6 Mr. President, my delegation believes that there is a close relationship between this General Conference, the Tenth Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly devoted to Disarma- ment, and the thirty-third regular session of the United Nations General Assembly currently taking place in New York. Both at the Tenth Special Session and at the thirty-third regular session of the General Assembly, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the German Democratic Republic had the oppor- tunity of presenting the constructive peace policy of the German State of workers and co-operative farmers.
2.7 In fact, the complicated and even contradictory international developments of the day require both sober judgement and determined action. The chances for a lasting peace are no longer a dream but are real. At the same time, however, the arms race is assuming unprecedented dimensions, and is swallowing enormous sums. Hence it is imperative for Unesco to take a firm stand in favour of peace, and to work for the strengthening and broadening of détente and for a complementary military détente. Only under conditions of international peace, security and understanding and on a basis of equal rights can the national development of education, science and culture, as well as international co-operation in these fields, be beneficial to all peoples.
2.8 Unesco is in a strong position to give positive help to strengthen détente, to make world peace more secure and to ensure that the road towards a world freed from colonial and racist oppression will be easier to follow. It is gratifying to note that the circumstances of Unesco's activities have in many respects improved during the last few years. Never have there been better chances to contri- bute actively to a lasting peace than today.
2.9 In spite of counter-currents, the results achieved in the process of détente have a bearing on the development of international affairs and are obvious enough. These are good results, which are generally felt to be both concrete and tangible. That is particularly true for the European continent, where the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference cn Security and Co-operation in Europe has a benefi- cial and stimulating effect on the coexistence of nations with different social systems.
2.10 It is equally obvious that the resistance of those who are opposed to détente has grown in some respects and in some regions, and has resulted in massive attacks against the policy of peaceful coexistence. I refer to attempts to accelerate the arms race in an ever-rising spiralling, to bolster the armed forces through the development of murderous new weapons, and to poison the international atmosphere.
2.11 The current arms race constitutes an obstacle to the growth of the spiritual and material prosperity of peoples. It also poses a seri-us threat to the process of détente. The stockpiling of weapons, and of nuclear weapons in particular, is contrary to all reason. Ever more dangerous weapons of mass destruction, like the neutron bomb, are being developed, whose utilization would cause immense suffering and irreparable material damage and losses to mankind. The age-old yearn- ing of mankind for peace, humanism and common sense obliges us to see the cessation of the arms race and disarmament as keys to the problems of today's world, and to struggle without respite towards these objectives.
2.12 On the basis of its constitutional mandate to work for enduring peace in the world and for general disarmament, the German Democratic Republic advocates immediate and practical measures to end the fatal arms race and bring about disarmament. It devotes all its efforts to saving present and future generations from the scourge of war. In the German Democratic Republic, words and deeds form a unity. Young people are educated in the spirit of friendship, international understand- ing, solidarity and the struggle for disarmament. My country supports the earliest possible implement- ation of the decisions taken by the Tenth Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly * The undelivered parts of the speaker's statement in plenary are, with the authorization of the President, annexed to the verbatim record of the meeting.
598            devoted to Disarament. The new and concrete proposals submitted by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics at the thirty-third United Nations General Assembly are designed to end and reverse the arms race. The conclusion of a convention on the strengthening of guarantees of the security of non-nuclear-weapon States would substantially reduce the risk of nuclear war, and effectively enhance international security.
2.13 The delegation of the German Democractic Republic holds that, in view of its objectives and specific potential in the fields of education, science, culture and information, Unesco is in a position to give valuable impetus to the world-wide movement for disarmament. That necessity accords with the aim of the Week devoted to fostering the objectives of disarmament. In this context, my delega- tion welcomes the comments and conclusions of the Director-General at the Tenth Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly and at the beginning of our general policy debate. We consider the convening of an international congress on disarmament education within the framework of Unesco to be an activity that needs particular encouragement. On behalf of the Government of the German Democratic Republic, I may assure you that we will do everything in our power to promote this initiative. I have also the pleasure to announce my country's readiness to host that congress.
2.14 My delegation believes that in view of the crucial need to end the arms race and to embark on the disarmament process which is vital for the preservation of world peace, Unesco's contribution to these objectives should be much greater. For that reason, we commend the draft resolution submitted by the USSR and other delegations on the role of Unesco in generating a climate of public opinion conducive to the halting of the arms race and the transition to disarmament (20 C/PLEN/DR.2). As a co-sponsor of that draft resolution, we invite all delegations to support it. It contains proposals for a comprehensive programme in that field, which take account of Unesco's long-standing and vast experience and of its great international authority.
2.15 Mr. President, the mass media play today an important role in international affairs, in the promotion of international co-operation among States, and in the process of enhancing the mutual understanding of peoples. They create a bridge between countries and continents which are separated from each other by vast distances, contribute to the rapid dissemination of information on the life, culture, manners and customs of different countries, and are indispensable to the eradication of ignorance and illiteracy. Their growing importance also makes it necessary for them to promote endeavours designed to strengthen international security and détente, disarmament and understand- ing among peoples. They must not be misused for whipping up tensions, propagating ideas of war, enmity and hatred among peoples. This is neither a West-East nor a North-South problem, but rather a matter of adherence to fundamental principles which are of decisive importance to the coexist- ence of peoples and States.
2.16 It is for this reason that the German Democratic Republic, in conjunction with many other States, has been pleading over the past years for the elaboration and adoption of a Declaration on the Fundamental Principles Governing the Use of the Mass Media in Strengthening Peace and Inter- national Understanding and in Combating War Propaganda, Racialism and Apartheid. My delegation suggests that the Draft Declaration submitted by the Director-General in document 20 C/20 be dis- cussed and adopted at this session of the General Conference.
2.17 Mr. President, in his statement at the opening of the general policy debate, the Director-General provided an excellent description of the purpose of this Declaration. The mass media indeed have a growing responsibility with regard to peace and international understanding, especially as far as the education of future generations is concerned. This is a responsibility that neither governments or those in charge of the media can evade. The combating of war propaganda, racism and apartheid and, as the Director-General stressed, of Nazi ideology requires determined action. This has nothing at all to do with a restriction of the freedom of the press. On the contrary, freedom involves the prevention of inhuman propaganda and the dissemination of ideas which place a strain on the coexis- tence of States and peoples. In the view of my delegation, it is inconceivable that this session of the General Conference will not produce concrete results on this important issue. Every effort should be made to crown the session with the adoption of a Declaration. This would also be a valuable contribution to the commemoration of the thirtieth anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declara- tion of Human Rights.
2.18 Mr. President, situated in the heart of Europe where two different socio-economic and political Systems are face to face, it is only natural that the German Democratic Republic should attach great mportance to security and co-operation among the States of the region. Coexistence of the European States is developing as the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference is increasingly recognized and applied as a code of peaceful relations among States. The German Democratic Republic is firmly determined to proceed, together with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the other socialist sister countries, on the road which the Helsinki Conference opened towards less confrontation and towards security and co-operation between States with different social systems. We consider that all the signatories of the Final Act should intensify their efforts to obtain a more efficient application of baePrinciples and accords adopted at the highest level of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe.
2.19 Unesco, which has been working for years to promote European co-operation and which strongly recommended the convening of the Helsinki Conference, has, in the view of the German Democratic Republic, manifold possibilities of participation in the implementation of the Final Act, and of assisting those of its Member States which signed the Final Act of Helsinki in their efforts in this connection. In this context, the activities which Unesco has undertaken deserve appreciation and recognition and I would single out in this respect the preparation of a draft convention on the recognition of studies,
15   diplomas and degrees in higher education in the European States, the recent Second Conference of Ministers Responsible for Science and Technology Policies in the European and North American Region (MINESPOL II) and the work done in various fields of the natural sciences by European expert committees.
2.20 My delegation has taken note with interest of the proposals for European co-operation during the next two years. The Regional Conference of Ministers of Education of the European Region, scheduled to be held in 1980, deserves special attention on the part of all the States of this region, and should make a useful contribution to the promotion of exchanges of views and experience in pursuance of the Final Act of Helsinki. In the view of my delegation, it is also imperative for Unesco to assist with its specific means and in an effective way in the convening of all-European congresses on co-operation on environmental protection, energy and transport.
2.21 Mr. President, international security, peaceful coexistence among States having different social systems, and the enjoyment of human rights are inconceivable, indeed impracticable, without the liquidation of colonialism, neo-colonialism, racism and apartheid. Therefore the German Democratic Republic wishes Unesco to step up its efforts for the definitive elimination of the outrageous colonialist and racist regimes and their abominable practices. For this reason, my country supports the pertinent proposals submitted by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in its draft resolution. We strongly condemn the terrorism in South Africa and all attempts to preserve that bastion of colonialism and racism.
2.22 It is gratifying to note that following the Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly on Namibia and the World Conference to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination, the African people's movement for national and social liberation has gained immensely in strength. The German Democratic Republic considers that the people of Zimbabwe have a legitimate right to self-determination. My country pleads for the uncompromised and complete independence of Namibia and for unrestricted respect for that country's territorial integrity.
2.23 Particular importance should be attached to the Declaration on Race and Racial Prejudice drafted within Unesco. This Declaration will help in a specific manner to give effect to Unesco's Constitution and to attain the objectives set out in numerous basic United Nations decisions.
2.24 The German Democratic Republic believes that racism and racial prejudice are sources of exploita- tion, oppression, colonialism, neo-colonialism, and hatred among peoples, all of which pose serious threats to international peace and constitute violations of human rights. For this reason, my delega- tion entertains the firm hope that the present draft Declaration will meet with the approval of all delegations. The adoption of such an important document would be an appropriate contribution by Unesco to the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination.
2.25 Strictly respecting the equal rights and independence of the nationally liberated States and displaying active solidarity with them, the German Democratic Republic supports the demands of the developing countries for international economic relations based on equality and mutual advantage, and condemns all neo-colonialist exploitation. We hold that Unesco is in a position to assist in the training and advanced training of cadres from the nationally liberated States and the national liberation movements, so as to help them overcome backwardness and the heritage from colonial rule. The delegation of my country therefore strongly favours the measures foreseen in this respect in the Programme and Budget for 1979-1980. We are prepared also to participate in pertinent activities organized under the auspices of Unesco. The eighth international educational colloquy, to be con- vened in the capital of the German Democratic Republic in 1979, will bring together educational experts from about 50 countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America for a useful exchange of exper- ience and views.
2.26 Mr. President, scientific and cultural co-operation between States has become an important element of international relations, and plays an important role in the creation of a climate of confi- dence among States and peoples and in the spiritual evolution of mankind. Unesco is called upon to promote the further development of co-operation based on equality and mutual benefit in the fields of culture and science. But in the development of international cultural relations there is the question of their content. What matters is whether these relations are intended to strengthen peace, friendship and understanding or whether, on the contrary, they serve anti-human designs and spread animosity and hatred among peoples. The draft resólution submitted by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in this connection, stresses the role of cultural relations for strengthening peace and friendship among the peoples. Consequently, this draft is in accordance with the dictates of our time and meets the interests and aspirations of all peoples; it has the full support of my delegation.
2.27 Mr. President, certain States have been claiming for some time that human rights are a basic consideration and have become the directing principles of their policy. This assertion is designed to conceal the fact that their systems are based on the violation of human rights. In their arguments, they separate human rights from their inherent connection with international peace and security, and claim that they alone are entitled to judge what is right or wrong. With good reason, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the German Democratic Republic stated at the thirty-third session of the United Nations General Assembly that this attitude is neither new or ingenious, and that in the final analysis, it amounts to advocacy of the "right" to intervention on what are alleged to be humanitarian grounds. Attempts to intervene in the internal affairs of other States, and to poison the international atmosphere under the pretext of defending human rights, are not, however, likely to get very far.
2.28 Man's most important right is the right to live in peace and freedom from fascist, colonialist, racist or any other oppression. It is vital to secure those fundamental socio-economic rights which are basic to a life of peace and social security and to genuine democracy and freedom.
2.29 In this connection, it is imperative for Unesco to urge adherence to the principles of the United Nations Charter, and to speak out against the violations of the fundamental rights of the Arab people to national education and culture in the Arab territories occupied by those who rule Israel.
2.30 My delegation also condemns the flagrant violation of human rights by the fascist military junta in Chile, and urges the immediate release of the arrested and deported patriots, restoration of constitutional order and implementation of the right of every Chilean to return to his country.
2.31 Mr. President, in the German Democratic Republic, as in the other socialist States, these decisive human rights are implemented and established by law. My country, which will celebrate the thirtieth anniversary of its foundation next year, was the first and only German State to establish the working people's right to exercise political power, their right to work, their right to social security and justice, their right to respect for their work, and to universal education, and their right to develop their personality; it gives its citizens ever greater opportunities to benefit from these fundamental rights. In the German Democratic Republic, young people do not have to worry about their vocational training. They know neither exploitation or unemployment or even fear for their existence. Ten-class general polytechnical education and subsequent vocational training are guaranteed to all children.
2.32 Mr. President, my delegation agrees in principle with the Draft Programme and Budget for
1979-1980 (20 C/5). In its compilation, account has been taken of basic decisions adopted at the nineteenth session of the General Conference. Nevertheless, my delegation holds the view that not all of the projects envisaged are likely to meet the purpose of the resolutions. In the commissions we will take the opportunity to present our position in greater detail. Let me just say a few words with regard to the involvement of women in the life of society. We believe that Unesco could take concrete steps to achieve the equal involvement of women in the life of society. On this matter, my delegation has submitted a draft resolution (20 C/PRG.V/DR.2), which, if adopted, would meet the goal of enhancing the contribution that women can make towards the strengthening of international peace and security and in the struggle against colonialism, racism, racial discrimination, agression, occupation and alien domination of all kinds.
2.33 Mr. President, on the basis of the considerations I have outlined, my delegation concludes that Unesco, in pursuance of its Constitution, should endeavour to improve still further the exercise of its responsibility for the preservation and strengthening of world peace. To this end, it has adopted eloquent and significant resolutions at previous sessions of its General Conference, and the present session would also be well advised to speak up for the consolidation of détente and the safeguarding of international peace. My delegation is a co-sponsor of the draft resolution submitted by the delegation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on Unesco's contribution to peace and its tasks with respect to the promotion of human rights and the elimination of colonialism and racialism (20 C/PLEN/DR.1). This resolution deserves the attention and support of all delegations, since it is devoted to the most important of all human rights: the right to live in peace.
2.34 The preparation of a programme designed to enhance Unesco's contribution to the strength- ening of international peace and security should find a logical place in the work of drafting Unesco's programme for 1981-1982, and should constitute a major element in the work of the present session of the General Conference. This could also give fresh impetus to the activity of the National Commissions for Unesco.
2.35 Mr. President, great are the challenges which the peoples of the world are facing in their endeavour to preserve and multiply the treasure of human knowledge and cultural values accumulated throughout the history of mankind, and to ensure the flourishing of science and culture for the good of humanity and under conditions of international peace and security, disarmament and international understanding. Unesco can and must make its contribution to that end. In so doing, it will always enjoy the concurrence of the German Democratic Republic. Thank you, Mr. President.
3. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la République démocratique allemande et je donne la parole à S. Exc. M. Suk Heun Yun, ambassadeur extraordinaire et plénipotentiaire de la République as Corée en France, délégué permanent auprès de l'Unesco et chef de la délégation de la République e Corée.
4.1 Mr. SUK HEUN YUN (Republic of Korea): Mr. President, first of all, I would like to join the preceding speakers in congratulating you on your unanimous election as President of the twentieth session of the General Conference. My delegation wishes also to express its appreciation for the excellent preparation for this Conference made by the Director-General and his collaborators in the Secretariat.
4.2 Mr. President, over thirty years ago the founders of Unesco established as its primary goal peace on this earth through "the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind": today that goal remains our overriding concern. It cannot merely be a topic for intellectual discussion, but an urgent task for everyone of us. We, in the Republic of Korea, are making maximum efforts to realize this task by concrete actions. Our activities in the fields of education, culture and the sciences, are naturally diverse. Let me explain briefly some of these actions.
4.3 In the field of education, following the quantitative expansion of our educational system during the 1960s, our emphasis this past decade has been qualitative improvement. We are taking measures to provide truly equal opportunities for all schoolchildren through the correction of regional inequalities and rural-urban disparities.
4.4 Today, universal education is a veritable reality in Korea. However, the various technologies needed for the further advancement of national development require more than the basic six-year programme. By the middle of this decade, almost 85 per cent of all primary school children continued their education in the middle schools, while more than 75 per cent of middle school graduates entered high schools. Next year, 44 per cent of our high school graduates will pursue their higher education in the colleges and universities of the country.
4.5 In the early 1970s, our Government instituted an imaginative programme of community develop- ment, called the Saemaul Movement. The Saemaul Movement places an emphasis on the fullest possible utilization of existing school personnel and facilities, as well as on the use of other community resources. This single programme is proving to be instrumental in the renewal of education in relation to social and cultural development, the provision of opportunities to all members of our society to enhance their educational attainment, and the mobilization of all possible educational resources.
4.6 Our Government has great interest in education for the preservation of our environment. In accordance with the resolutions adopted at the Intergovernmental Conference on Environmental Educa- tion last year, our Government has adopted a programme for an active participation of the entire population in the preservation of the environment. Our National Charter on Nature Preservation, promulgated on 5 October of this year, is designed to instil in each of our citizens a consciousness of the harmony of nature and the necessity of maintaining the delicate ecology of our environment.
4.7 I would like now to touch upon our experience in the planning of cultural policy. We have formulated a five-year plan, which terminates at the end of this year, the major emphasis being placed on the strengthening of our cultural infrastructure, through the establishment of cultural centres, museums and libraries throughout the country. The second five-year plan, which starts next year, is formulated in such a way as to promote a wider participation of the people in cultural life and to encourage endogenous cultural activities.
4.8 As a contribution to the mutual appreciation of cultures throughout the world, we began, this summer, regular publication of the Unesco Courier in the Korean language. Korean is now one of the
19 languages into which this major source of cultural dissemination is being translated.
4.9 Mr. President, development in science and technology is a crucial step that developing countries should take as soon as possible. In order to accelerate this development, we must restructure the research and information transferral system. As in so many other development fields, co-operation among nations on a regional basis is the best means of accomplishing this goal.
4.10 The scientists of Korea have found the network system of Unesco's Regional Office for Science and Technology in South-East Asia to be an especially promising mechanism for reform in the inter- national scientific community. Since the current programme in chemistry, microbiology and geology has proved to be a useful approach for the sharing of research findings and technological advances, we feel that this programme should be extended to all disciplines within the natural sciences. An added benefit of increased reliance on such region-based programmes will be the resultant promotion of the recently approved decentralization policy.
4.11 We are especially appreciative of Unesco's emphasis on locally-meaningful scientific research. Each of the six international meetings, seminars and workshops in the natural sciences organized by us during the last two years have dealt with topics of special interest to our region. Culturally significant projects, such as the scientific research of the medicinal benefits of ginseng, will continue to receive our support.
4.12 Mr. President, Unesco's recent attention to the social sciences in approaching the problems of societies meets with the strong approval of the Korean delegation. Since our programmes deal with man and society, the social sciences must deservedly receive central attention in our deliberations. We feel that the proposed allocations for the social sciences, representing only 5 per cent of our regular budget, are inadequate for such a crucial area of interest. We humbly suggest that the provisions for this vital activity be substantially increased in future budgets.
4.13 In accordance with Unesco's desire for reinforcement of the infrastructure of the social sciences, we have supported the activities of the Korean Social Science Research Council. This organization, serving in Seoul as the secretariat of the Asian Association of Social Science Research Councils, is engaged in the promotion of the social sciences in Korea through publication activities, the hosting of seminars and international conferences, and the administration of study grants.
4.14 In paragraph 3273 of the Draft Programme and Budget, we find a proposal for the exploration of the feasibility of creating a regional centre for social science research and documentation for Asia and Oceania. The Korean delegation wishes to express its enthusiastic support for such a centre, and to offer Seoul as the appropriate site of its activities. Last year, we hosted the Second Confer- ence of the Asian Association of Social Science Research Councils. The secretariat of this association, at present located in Seoul, could lend its direct support and assistance in the establishment of such a centre. We are also prepared to give such a project substantial financial support. Moreover, our Ministry of Education is considering the establishment of a social science institute to be administered
602        by the Korean Social Science Research Council. Working in unison, our Government, our National 15 Commission, our Social Science Research Council, and the proposed social science institute would create a very favourable setting in Seoul for the proposed regional centre for social science.
4.15 In recognition of the vital role and importance of youth in our rapidly developing society, our National Commission has constructed the Unesco Youth Centre in Korea. This facility, covering almost 70 acres and capable of accommodating up to 740 persons, will be available not only to the youth of Korea, but also to those of Asia and other regions of the world.
4.16 Furthermore, in collaboration with the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, ESCAP, our National Commission will host a training workshop designed to increase the proficiency of community workers and youth leaders within our region. Currently the great potential of young people, especially those in rural areas, is largely overlooked. This programme is designed to bring this important resource into the mainstream of our plans for national development.
4.17 In order to promote the diffusion of Unesco ideals among all people everywhere, we have co-operated closely in the formation of the Asian Federation of Unesco Clubs and Associations. Our National Commission was delighted to host in Seoul the second session of its Executive Board. We hope that the success of this federation will encourage members of our Unesco family in other regions to establish similar organizations, and that eventually a world federation may be established. From our experience with local Unesco associations in Korea, we are convinced that such an organization can play a decisive role in the promotion of Unesco ideals among all the peoples of the world.
4.18 Mr. President, we have before us a new approach in programme design, as presented in documents
19 C/4 and 20 C/5, structured around objectives, themes and expected results. This approach meets with the approval of the Korean delegation. The innovative approach by objectives, while maintaining the ease of the traditional structure, adds measurably to the clarity of our activities. In a similar manner, the use of themes promotes a new concreteness in our programmes, which have been rather vague. We are of the view that the expected results section following each theme will inject a new dimension, that is, evaluation, which should result in better resource allocation in the future.
4.19 We have, however, a modest observation to make. While the adoption of a medium-term plan gives long-range direction to our activities, it also reduces the flexibility of our organization. Ours is a rapidly evolving world. Several of our programmes, such as those dealing with energy research and utilization of the oceans, depend on the economic and political climate which prevails in the international community. Unanticipated changes in that climate may render our programmes inadequate or impracticable.
4.20 Keeping in mind this modest concern over the lack of flexibility, our delegation feels that the document 20 C/5 is a welcome follow-up to the Medium-Term Plan enacted previously. In this regard, we would like to thank the Unesco Secretariat, the Director-General and his staff, for their painstaking efforts on our behalf.
4.21 Mr. President, the seemingly insoluble problems of war, population, environmental degradation and poverty have resulted in a broad pessimism regarding the future of mankind and civilization. A major reason for this pessimism is the lack or insufficiency of international co-operation. My delegation is firmly convinced that of all the Specialized Agencies of the United Nations system, Unesco is the most appropriate Organization for the promotion and practice of international understanding, harmony and co-operation.
4.22 1 sincerely hope that this conviction of ours will be shared by all the fellow delegations at this General Conference and that our deliberations in the twentieth session will be rewarded, under your able guidance, Mr. President, by positive and fruitful results.
5. Le PRESIDENT.- ‚Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la République de Corée et je donne la parole au Dr Mohi El Din Saber, directeur général de l'Organisation arabe pour l'éducation, la culture et la science.
(6.1) Mr. SABER (Arab Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization) (Translation from the Arabic): Mr. President of the General Conference, Mr. Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr. Director-General, ladies and gentlemen: it gives me great pleasure, on behalf of the Arab Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization and also in my own name, to salute the twentieth General Conference of this international organization, which represents the faithful conscience and creative intellect of humanity, and which has such lofty and arduous duties to perform in connection with the shaping and preservation of life, the education of capable human beings and the safeguarding of noble values.
(6.2) I should also like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the Presidency of this great Conference and to say how impressed I am by the skill, experience and impartiality which you bring to the conduct of its deliberations. A word of praise is likewise due to the Chairman and members of the Executive Board for the never-failing zeal, expertise and objectivity with which they scrutinize the Organization's programmes, projects and problems - qualities reflected in the admirably clear report submitted by the Chairman of the Board to this Conference.
(6.3) Finally, I must pay a well-deserved tribute to Mr. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, Director-General of this Organization, for his vigour and efficiency in conducting its activities and for his scrupulous observance of its principles and traditions. The Director-General's enterprise, his wide network of personal contacts, his vast and deep awareness of the nature of world problems, make him a trusted leader of this international
15        Organization in its pursuit of justice, prosperity, brotherhood and peace, in a world full of contradictions and conflicts and in the face of a future whose surprises no one can foretell. In the former civilizations the future was the repository of man's hopes, but in our present-day civilization of scientific and technologi- cal revolution it has become a source of anxiety and foreboding. Our duty in this Organization, in the international and regional organizations and at the various levels of national responsibility is to utilize the immense potential of science and technology to construct life, to fructify it and to safeguard it against dangers by spreading peace and maintaining justice among peoples through a better international social, economic and political order for humanity. And in this context the admirable way in which the Director- General is fulfilling his international role deserves the highest appreciation.
(6.4) The Arab Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization agrees with previous speakers about the importance of supporting Unesco's efforts to establish a new international economic order based on the achievement of equitable development among Member States. It also welcomes Unesco's endeavours to safeguard human rights, establish world peace, and eliminate racial discrimination in all its manifestations whether social or political, regarding such discrimination as barbarous and an affront to the conscierice of mankind.
(6.5) And here I should like to say a special word about the close and fruitful co-operation between Unesco and ALECSO in their various fields of activity in the Arab region. The experience gained from this co-operation, which is expanding every day, has been useful at both the international and the regional level at a time when social development trends call for the establishment of new organizations and institutions in various fields, with open and flexible channels of communication conducive to a sustained dialogue and to the optimum utilization of the experience and efforts of the existing organizations and institutions until such time as their own methods of co-operation are established on a firm theoretical and practical basis.
(6.6) We believe that the type of co-operation that exists between Unesco and ALECSO is a shining example of this fruitful merging of experience, endeavours and goodwill and hence a valuable experience in itself. In this connection I should like to emphasize the important role played by the Organization's Director-General personally and by his colleagues in the Secretariat, and likewise the contribution made by the Executive Board.
(6.7) The forms of co-operation between Unesco and ALECSO in the Arab region are many and varied. The two organizations co-operate in implementing the recommendations of the CASTARAB Conference held in Rabat in 1976, and the resolutions of the Conference of the Ministers of Education and Those Responsible for Economic Planning which was held in Abu Dhabi in 1977; and there is also close co-operation between Unesco's Network of Educational Innovation for Development in the Arab countries, and ALECSO's informa- tion network for the co-ordination of educational research. ALECSO is likewise happy to be co-operating with Unesco in the preparation of an intergovernmental conference on information in Member States, and will also be co-operating with it in the conference that it is planning to hold in 1979 for the Arab Ministers responsible for cultural policies. There is thus effective reciprocity between the activities of the two organizations - one international, the other regional - in the co-ordination of resources and the complemen- tarity of objectives, within the framework of each organization's constitutional and administrative arrange- ments and the limits of their respective obligations. I am sure, Mr. President, that the new agreement between the two organizations which is currently being drafted as a result of the positive growth of the relations between them, will embody the experience acquired in the course of their productive and fruitful co-operation in various fields.
(6.8) Perhaps I should also refer here to ALECSO's contribution to the preparation of the Second United Nations Conference on Science and Technology through scientific research papers and participation both in the preparatory meetings and in the deliberations of the Conference itself. The results of that important Conference will be taken into careful consideration by ALECSO in the formulation of its future projects. Furthermore, ALECSO is a keen supporter of the various international institutions concerned with science programmes, especially Unesco; it considers the development and strengthening of such institutions prefer- able to the duplication of work, the irrational utilization of efforts and funds, and the creation of new organizations.
(6.9) At its most recent meeting, held in Khartoum, the ALECSO Conference adopted a strategy for the development of Arab education. This strategy, drawn up under the auspices of the Organization by a committee composed of leading Arab thinkers and educationalists, was the first integrated Arab effort in the field of education, and responds to the needs of Arab society within the framework of its values and from the standpoint of its aspirations. We are now seeking international co-operation in the execution of the projects stemming from this strategy, and it seems to us that this is an ideal approach to the whole question of co-operation on regional projects: they are planned and evaluated on the basis of the actual regional requirements, and regional and international efforts then combine to bring the necessary technical know-how and advanced scientific methods to bear on their execution. ALECSO, having compiled the formulation of an Arab strategy for education and gained useful lessons from that experience, is preparing, in response to the resolution formulated by its conference, to formulate Arab strategies in the fields of culture and science. In addition to its own experience it will benefit greatly from the relevant experience and activities of Unesco, of whose whole-hearted and valuable co-operation it is confident.
(6.10) Mr. President, the preservation of the cultural heritage in occupied Jerusalem and the rights of the citizens of the occupied Arab territories are essential matters directly related to the duties of this interna- tional Organization in the context of the safeguarding of human rights and the preservation of peace. Jerusalem's cultural and religious monuments have been tampered with or destroyed by the Zionist occupation authorities in spite of the resolutions adopted by previous Unesco conferences. The Director-General's fact-finding mission which for many years was prevented by the colonizers from even setting foot in Jerusalem, has been unable to carry out its duties. The Zionist authorities are still denying to the citizens of the occupied territories even the most elementary right to the enjoyment of their national culture. ALECSO has undertaken scientific and objective studies, supported by statistics and facts, on the subjects of occupied Jerusalem and education in the occupied territories. It will place these studies at the disposal of Unesco to assist it in carrying out its international responsibility towards this just cause. The subject of Jerusalem and of education and culture in the occupied territories is not an Arab question, it is an international one, related to solemn covenants of the United Nations and to the international principles on which peace is founded; it is a question involving human rights and the protection of man against war and racial prejudice. While commending the part played by Unesco and the endeavours of its Director-General, its Executive Board and its successive General Conferences, we call upon this General Conference to adopt, with a due sense of responsibility, effective measures which will enable the Organization to discharge its international responsibilities, to ensure respect for its resolutions, to preserve its prestige and to establish the principles of peace and justice among nations.
(6.11) We are deeply appreciative of the Director-General's concern for the restoration of stolen archaeologi- 15 cal objects to the States that have been victims of such cultural thefts - a question that has stirred the conscience of the entire civilized world. Such archaeological objects are part of the peoples’ lives; they are a precious spiritual and intellectual expression of which their creators and artisans cannot be deprived. If such cultural pillage unhappily occurred in the dark days of colonization, it cannot be suffered to continue in an atmosphere of rational international co-operation. These archaeological and artistic objects should be, so to speak, ambassadors, helping to foster mutual knowledge and respect among the peoples, to whom they should be made available through free exchange or in the form of replicas. But to seize them by force, to hide them away from their sources and to cut them off from their origin is an affront to the human conscience. We therefore ask Unesco and its General Conference to give this question the attention it deserves and to consider what international arrangements might be made to enable such stolen monuments to be returned to their original sources and resume their role in the civilization which produced them.
(6.12) Mr, President, man has not yet wholly emerged from his earlier state of backwardness, vestiges of which still impede his endeavours to construct a new world based on equality, justice and peace. One of the most dangerous of these vestiges is the phenomenon of discrimination among people, whatever its guise. Racial prejudice, in its various forms, remains one of the ugliest kinds of discrimination. It is a supersti- tion which should not exist in our age. It is truly saddening that while the blood of innocent victims of racial prejudice and colonialism is shed daily before the eyesof the world, their murderers are still allowed to form part of human society. The world has an international and a human duty to put an end to this disgraceful mockery. We welcome the draft declaration on race and racial prejudice, which condemns this perverse phenomenon in all its aspects, and we call upon the Conference to perform its duty by giving this humanitarian document legal status so that it becomes a basic document on human rights, a reality of our times and a daily rule of conduct in our lives. We also support the draft declaration on the fundamental principles governing the use of the mass media in strengthening peace and international understanding and in combating war propaganda, racialism and apartheid. This is, as a matter of fact, one of the essential problems of the contemporary world. The gigantic mass media created by modern technology have become a powerful intellectual, political, economic and social force, and the developing countries are paying the price of their enforced exposure to the influence of such international media in terms of the upheavals they are undergoing in the course of their movement towards progress and development, the cultural dangers they are encountering and the various political influences to which they are being subjected in their efforts to rationalize this powerful tool. Unesco will continue to have a major part to play in adapting the mass media to serve peace, equality and justice and to advance the noble objectives of humanity as a whole.
(6.13) Mr. President, I wish your Conference every success in dealing with the questions submitted to it, which are of such importance for man's life and for its construction, development and preservation. Thank you.
7. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le Directeur général de l'Organisation arabe pour l'éducation, la culture et la science et je donne la parole à S. Exc. le Dr Julio Cesar Castanos Espaillat, secrétaire d'Etat à l'éducation et aux beaux-arts et chef de la délégation de la République dominicaine.
(8.1) Mr. CASTANOS ESPAILLAT (Dominican Republic)(Translation from the Spanish): Mr. President, Mr. Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr. Director-General, distinguished delegates, I should like first of all to congratulate you, Mr. Napoléon LeBlanc on your election to the presidency of this twentieth session of the General Conference and, on behalf of my Government and my delegation, to wish you every success. I should also like once again on behalf of my Government, to express our deepest thanks to the Director-General for his many courtesies to the Dominican delegation and his sympathetic approach to my country's problems.
(8.2) During the last ten years, the Dominican Republic has not taken part in this general policy debate of Unesco which is so useful and of such importance for a better understanding of our own problems and
15 the expression of our needs in the field of culture. Only a little over two months ago a new government came to power in my country; this government, under the leadership of Mr. Guzman Fernandez is the result of a programme of action which enabled the Dominican masses to vote in favour of a definitive transition from one-man rule to programmatic action. We therefore represent a new political and cultural approach in the Dominican Republic; we represent the fresh hopes of a country which has begun to determine what its doctrine in the fields of culture, science and education should be, and what action it should take to put that doctrine into practice in the near future. In speaking from this rostrum it will be enough for us to define the ideal in question and our position towards it. When instructing me to convey his warmest greet- ings to the countries participating in this session - meeting-place of the world's ablest and most progressive thinkers - President Guzmán Fernández asked me to describe not only his ideas on culture and education but those embodied in the programme on which the Dominican Revolutionary Party was carried to power after 15 years of struggle and sacrifice that happily did not prove to be in vain. The Dominican Republic now contemplates a vivid panorama of peoples belonging to the same area and the same subregion, and having essentially the same historical background. If we live in isolation for lengthy periods, on account of dictatorships or of ideological and political attitudes inimical to neighbourly contacts, we are probably best able to retain our sense of belonging to the West Indies at such times if we have been able to grasp that all of us in the West Indies, whether we speak English, French, Dutch or "Creole", share a common history, and that at the deepest level of our cultural vision we come of a common stock which binds us together indissolubly .
(8.3) The Dominican Republic has therefore launched a policy focused on the idea that cultural identity should be the guiding principle of all action in the fields of education, science and culture. By this we mean that we feel ready to initiate a type of integrated action, of large-scale education of the people, which will lead to the recovery of our values and render every Dominican capable of distinguishing between his own historical heritage and that which has been imposed on him or which others are attempting to impose on him. The feeling of belonging to a single family is the salvation of our peoples. We know that it is impos- sible to work out a cultural policy without a clear objective, and that we must plan our educational policy with the aim of transforming the educational process into a protective barrier against attempts to alienate us or to break down our self-confidence, making us increasingly subservient to sets of values which have not been evolved from our traditions but result from a position of dependence that cramps our spirit and inhibits our struggle for survival. With this in mind, in only two months of government, we have made a point of going to the heart of the cultural problem in the certainty that our own culture must be developed and promoted, not as a reflection of other cultures.but as a system of knowledge enabling the true cultural life of the country to rid itself of everything extraneous to our own system of values.
(8.4) As a developing country, the Dominican Republic inevitably views development in terms of action designed to safeguard the values of the rural areas, of the countryman and of the great masses of the dispossessed. In our philosophy of action, the countryside and the rising generation are key elements, the clay from which our national identity - at school, on the farm, in the home - will be fashioned.
(8.5) Nor can we conceive of development without a rational interchange of views and experience with the other countries of the subregion, many of whom are also endeavouring to reorganize their cultural systems and strengthen the process of cultural affirmation as the instrument to be used in building up the nation or in emancipating its thinking.
(8.6) We shall not weary you with figures and statements which might appear to be imprecise. We should simply like to point out that within this educational and cultural policy, we consider that it is not enough for the State to provide the classroom and the teacher in order to instil the love of learning in pupils and students and to ensure the success of the education process. In the Dominican Republic, where education is free of charge and compulsory for children between the ages of seven and fourteen, classrooms, proteins and calories, shelter and care of physical needs are lacking. The meeting of these needs is undoubtedly one means of improving the impact of education, a means of avoiding everyday worries which may hamper the educational process. With this in mind, the Dominican Government has taken budgetary action with international assistance to launch emergency nutrition programmes, directed mainly towards rural areas and, since 23 October last, it has begun to provide breakfasts or lunches for 55% of all schoolchildren between the ages of seven and fourteen years old - a figure which it hopes to increase to 65% in January and to 100% by April 1979. Not content with this, we are seeking basic assistance from Unesco for our nutrition pro- grammes. We shall, moreover, be launching a school clothing programme next year for children in rural areas and also a rural school building programme jointly with our community development service. In 1979 we plan to provide textbooks and teaching materials free of charge for these communities, which suffered long years of neglect under previous systems, when improvisation and anarchy were rife in certain sectors of our national education and no serious attempt was made to meet the educational requirements of the country as a whole.
(8.7) The present Government of the Dominican Republic considers agriculture, employment, health and education as priority areas. These four centres of development can only operate in an integrated manner, and activities have therefore been planned in such a way that in rural areas the Ministries of Health, Agriculture, Employment and the Armed Forces work in co-operation with the community development serv- ice. The main objective of this combined effort is to educate the countryman to live in harmony with his environment, to recognize and solve rural problems, to seek self-improvement so that he can obtain the best results from his efforts and to resist the great temptation to migrate to the city which so often has nothing but misery to offer those who flock to it, not so much because they are dazzled by the lights of the metro- polis as because they are driven from their homes by the spectres of ignorance and unremitting anxiety.
(8.8) Recently, barely one month after the Government had come to power, the Ministry of Education of our country authorized an agreement which has no precedent in the history of the Republic: the co- management of State secondary schools by headmasters, teachers, pupils and parents. Dominican secondary schools have thus been made democratic. The pupils who formerly, and with good reason, strongly opposed the official educational system, have today become our collaborators, with a stake in the success or failure of Dominican secondary education. The open-minded and democratic attitude we have adopted will, we have no doubt, prove to have been amply justified.
(8.9) One problem which is causing considerable concern and which we are making every effort to solve is that of pre-school education. The same may be said of educational planning. Studies are currently being made and the details of a programme of pre-school education in harmony with our objective of cultural identification are being planned. The Dominican Republic is a country in which values must be instilled into the people from their earliest years, a country which for a considerable number of years lost con- fidence in itself, a country which at many times was ashamed of its own creations because they did not
610     resemble the imported models, which was contaminated by a system of alien values that were the negation of our own reality. And it is in pre-school education that initial values should begin to take shape. It is at this stage of life that the alien model can be banished once and for all. For these reasons and since modern pedagogy, as we all know, recommends the preparation of the mind with a view to improved educational attainment from the earliest age, we consider that pre-school education must be developed as a matter of priority in the coming years in the Dominican Republic.
(8.10) The Dominican Government has also started to take action in the field of higher education. It has increased the budget of the Autonomous University of Santo Domingo - our State university and the oldest university in the Americas, and intends at a later date to strengthen its programmes as well as those of the other privately-run universities which fulfil a valuable function in Dominican society .
(8.11) As you know, our country is an ethnic and racial melting-pot. There is no doubt but that ours is a mulatto community. Some years ago a very well-known Dominican writer qualified us in this way. At that time the word "mulatto" carried a connotation of inferiority for us, which we are overcoming in so far as we have been able to prove that it is thanks to this very cross-breeding that we constitute a cultural entity with very positive characteristics and great moral strength. We have been of mixed parentage ever since the first new race was introduced into the New World with the arrival in Santo Domingo of the Spanish settlers who created new racial patterns which were further modified when Africans were first brought to America. Both racial groups were already in the Island as early as the fifteenth century, and became more permanently installed there when West Africans replaced the Arawakan settlers of the islands working in the mines and plantations. We are of mixed parentage because the people of the Canary Islands also inter- married with us in great numbers in the seventeenth century; and because freebooters and buccaneers from Normandy made their homes in the western part of the island when Spain, weary of fighting, abandoned the coasts of Hispaniola and fell back on the colonial towns of the interior with the aim of overcoming English and Dutch Protestantism and building up a territory - later to fall into the hands of the French - which would prove to be the richest source of colonial wealth known in the history of humanity up to the nine- teenth century - French Santo Domingo, the cradle, following a long period of slavery, of the future Republic of Haiti. Spanish Santo Domingo was always directly influenced by the political and economic attitudes of French Santo Domingo which, in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, had a profound effect on the basic economy of the Spanish part of the island. We are a heterogeneous community since our history forms part of the history of the Caribbean: Penn and Venables sailed from Santo Domingo, where their expedition had come to grief, to conquer Jamaica in 1655 and introduced the rule of English law in the Caribbean; earlier, in 1585, Francis Drake during the war with Spain set foot in colonial Santo Domingo; with the Treaty of Basle we became a French colony and saw the ideas of the revolution at the gates of the old city with its traditionally hybrid population; in 1865 we fought the Spanish monarchy which had abandoned us without a struggle in 1821 when Spain began to recognize the freedom of many countries in the Americas; since prehistorical times the natives of Trinidad, Barbados, Guadeloupe, Dominica, and Puerto Rico have crossed the seas in canoes to link the West Indies, merged henceforward in a single great culture, more closely together; and at the beginning of the colonial period, Hatuey, a West Indian from Santo Domingo, went to Cuba as the leader of a group working for the unity of the West Indies; and Enriquillo, an Arawakan leader of Creole upbringing, joined the African slave rebellion in the Bahoruco mountains as a demonstration of racial and cultural ‘solidarity .
(8.12) Throughout these vicissitudes, we have been building up a set of values which is now beginning to flourish. We have been able to blend the cultural criteria of the former leaders of the world with those of the subject peoples, with the beliefs and values which emerged from the daily life of the islands, which are very different from the original values and therefore constitute new forms of culture. It is for these reasons, among others, that there is little need for a struggle against discrimination in the Dominican Republic.
(8.13) I should like to amplify this introduction ‚although it is rather long, by reaffirming here our plural- ist position, our desire for the Caribbean countries to reaffirm their own identity by becoming part of a community with common ideals and objectives. The Dominican Republic, with a view to promoting this search for and consolidation of our cultural identity, has already paved the way for the establishment of a Centre for the Study of Caribbean Cultures. Its purposes are international and its objectives will be numerous, but the most important of these will be to co-ordinate the study, dissemination, preservation and consolidation of the values of the Caribbean subregion. On the instructions of President Guzmán Fernández, a start has been made on the organization of the Centre's activities, under the guidance of Dr. Hugo Tolentino Dopp, former Rector of the Autonomous University of Santo Domingo and a well-known historian of the culture and peoples of the Caribbean. The Centre, which has begun its work in our country, is designed to benefit all the peoples of America and the world, and especially those of the Caribbean subregion; they will be welcome to make use of it, to give it their support and to assist it in a joint endeavour whose results will never be the sole property of the Dominicans but the property of all West Indians whose common history and future must be shared.
(8.14) Before concluding, I should like to thank the Director-General of Unesco for his visit to the Dominican Republic some months ago. On that occasion, his perceptive approach to the cultural reality of the Caribbean peoples aroused lively interest and expectations. It is possible that his presence among us was partly Fesponsinie for the formulation of our fundamental purpose today, that of strengthening our cultural identity. hank you.
(10.1) Mr. AL MARZOUK (Kuwait)(Translation from the Arabic): Mr. President of the General Conference, Mr. Director-General, distinguished delegates, I am happy and honoured to be addressing this great gathering, the twentieth session of Unesco's General Conference, as the representative of the State of Kuwait and the head of its delegation, and 1 pray that God will enable all of us to assist the Organization in solving the major problems confronting the world, in conformity with its mission and its noble objectives. May this session prove rich in creative endeavour and its results conducive to the happiness and prosperity of all mankind. On this auspicious occasion, I should like to contratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of this Conference, and to pay tribute to the Director-General for his zeal and dedication which have done so much to win for Unesco the creative and cultural leadership of our vast world.
(10.2) These qualities are evinced not only in the various successful efforts referred to by the Director- General in his comprehensive statement but in his thoughtful and judicious handling of all the questions submitted to this Conference. I have in mind particularly the question of Unesco's role in establishing the principles which should govern the contribution of the information media to the furtherance of peace and international understanding - a matter which it was felt should be settled at the present session in view of its great importance.
(10.3) The question of education, culture and scientific and technological progress is very important from the point of view of man's life and development; it is the concern of the international community everywhere. There can be no doubt that numerous educational problems related to man and his fundamental rights continue to exist in many developing countries where educational opportunities are still very rare. Likewise, educa- tional curricula and objectives are still unrelated to the pupil's environment, they do not correspond to the needs of society and do not conform to present-day requirements. Moreoever, the development of science teaching, the establishment of the bases for educational research, the promotion of university and higher education and the provision of research centres and of technical and vocational training establishments at various levels are all urgent problems to which the Organization should find the right solutions. In this respect, we concur with the contents of Part III of the proposed general resolution concerning the strengthen- ing of links between education and working life, the promotion of better links between school and out-of-school education and the encouragement of a wide-ranging, forward-looking inquiry regarding education.
(10.4) If Unesco's educational activity aims among other things at promoting the observance of human rights, the reinforcement of peace and the elimination of racialism, the Organization should exert greater efforts in this field, especially in favour of the peoples who are under the yoke of occupation and who are suffering from the injustice of colonialism. In this connextion we would refer in particular to the educa- tional rights of the Palestinian Arabs - a people living under the yoke of the hateful Zionist occupation which, through its settlement policies, attempts to falsify our heritage and change the features of our culture through the excavations it carries on in occupied Palestine and especially in the city of Jerusalem. We appeal to the conscience of the world, which has condemned this behaviour, to give this question more consideration and importance in view of its serious consequences.
(10.5) Mr. President, possibly the most striking feature of our age is the perpetual revolution we are witnessing in the field of science and technology. Scientific progress and technological development have even become, in this age, the true measure of the civilization of nations. The last decade witnessed a constant evolution in international relations, from which there crystallized an aspiration on the part of the developing countries to build up their own technological and scientific capabilities out of the conviction that this was important for facilitating and promoting the economic and social development needed if they were to benefit from the technological abilities of the developed countries. To this end, the United Nations General Assembly decided at its thirty-first session to hold a United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development in the city of Vienna in August 1979. Unesco must play its full part in promoting the success of this conference and the achievement of its objectives, especially those relating to the establish- ment of a new world economic order.
(10.6) We consider that the field of thought and culture is a vital one, and while we endorse those aspects of Unesco's programme relating to the promotion and development of cultural identity, the search for the points of convergence of the civilizations and cultures of the world and the planning and integration of cultural development in overall development plans, we feel that Unesco should reinforce its programmes for the dissemination of literary and artistic works at the international level and in particular for the transfer of cultures. Technological progress has provided us with means of communication which enable us to experi- ence the events of our world as a living reality no matter how far away from us they occur. Here we would mention the proposals submitted by the committee of experts at its meeting in Venice in 1976, and subsequently embodied in resolutions of Unesco's General Conference, forming the basis for the Director- General's appeal concerning the return of cultural property to its country of origin. In giving our unquali- fied support to that appeal, we would particularly stress the importance of such cultural property as a factor in the historical and cultural identity of its lawful owners. As regards the preservation and protec- tion of the cultural heritage in our Arab nation, we wish to express our support for the campaign launched by Unesco through its Director-General for the safeguard and rehabilitation of the Moroccan city of Fez, in view of its important role in the history of Islamic, Arabian and world civilization.
(10.7) Realizing the importance of childhood and its problems, Kuwait is participating, together with the other nations of the world, in the celebration of the International Year of the Child proclaimed by the United Nations General Assembly at its thirty-first session. For the same reason, it sponsored a meeting of the Association of Kuwaiti Teachers on the pre-primary school child in which the Arab Gulf States took part. That meeting examined several studies and formulated a number of recommendations concerning the best ways of bringing up and educating children so as to ensure their physical, social and cultural develop- ment and prepare them for adult life.
(10.8) The Islamic world is currently preparing to celebrate a glorious event which has a great place in the heart of every Muslim, namely the 1400th anniversary of the Hegira, or Emigration of the Prophet Muhammad. In view of the historical importance of that Emigration, not only for Muslims the world over but for human civilization as a whole, we very much hope that Unesco will play its part in celebrating this great event in co-ordination with ALECSO, which has prepared an important programme to mark the occasion.
(10.9) The Kuwaiti renaissance has been accompanied by steady development in the application of modern technical methods. That was a natural outcome of the requirements of the oil industry, on both the extrac- tion and the production side, and the attendant progress and development which permeated all aspects of economic and social life. A quick look at the development of the educational system in our country reveals the extent of the educational renaissance that Kuwaiti society has achieved. In less than a quarter of a century, it has been able to create an educational system which now embraces approximately one-quarter of the total population, from the kindergarten to the university, the objective being to provide individuals who will be capable in future years of assuming the responsibilities of production and of applying modern scientific methods and techniques. Kuwait's major achievements in the educational field during the past few years also include: the widening of the scope of education, with the emphasis on increased diversity and efficiency; the preparation of plans and programmes for the elimination of illiteracy; the expansion of teacher training; the constant development of curricula to adapt them to the needs of modern society; and the introduction of the assignment system in the comprehensive school experiment at the secondary level. We shall continue, in Kuwait, to build a modern State which applies the methods of advanced technology and contemporary know-how in the different spheres of life.
(10.10) Mr. President, we hope that this international gathering will contribute to the achievement of the objectives we all seek, so that we may achieve closer international co-operation and mobilize efforts and capacities through Unesco. Finally, I should like to express my sincere thanks and appreciation to the Executive Board, and also to pay tribute to the Secretariat for its great efforts in connection with the organization and preparation of this Conference, to which we sincerely wish every success.
11. Le PRESIDENT. - Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Koweit et je donne la parole à S. Exc. M. Vincent Guezodje, ministre de l'enseignement du premier degré, président de la Commission nationale pour l'Unesco et chef de la délégation de la République populaire du Bénin.
12.1 M. GUEZODJE (Bénin).- Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Messieurs les ministres, honorables délé- gués, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi de joindre ma voix à celles qui m'ont précédé pour vous remercier, Monsieur le Président, et pour vous féliciter chaleureusement pour votre élection à la présidence de cette vingtième session de la Conférence générale de notre Organisation qui célèbre à la fois son trente-deuxième anniversaire et le quatrième anniversaire de l'accession de notre très cher frère Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, au poste de directeur général.
12.2 Trente-deux ans d'un côté et quatre ans de l'autre ! Que de distance parcourue, de sommets gravis, d'histoire et de crises surmontées ! Et parmi tous ces Annapurna, il y a quelques Everest majestueux et neigeux dont nous pouvons être fiers. Il s'agit par exemple de notre Plan à moyen terme, devenu, il y a quelques semaines "Comprendre pour agir : l'Unesco face aux problèmes d'au- jourd'hui et aux défis de demain". Ce document C/4 se défend brillamment tout seul, parce qu'il est l'expression vivante des aspirations des peuples des Etats membres, et c'est pourquoi la création de Comités dits de soutien au Plan à moyen terme est une action des plus légitimes qui va dans le sens d'une mise en oeuvre conséquente de ces objectifs.
12.3 Un autre Everest, c'est Nairobi ! Session inoubliable à plusieurs titres ; mais aussi, ville inoubliable pour son climat, son architecture, ses fleurs et surtout pour le grand travail abattu dans la concorde et dans cette entente cordiale et générale qui est devenue ce que nous appelons désor- mais "l'esprit de Nairobi".
12.4 Mais nous voici de nouveau à Paris, dans le froid précoce et devant l'écho des difficultés de notre Organisation, difficultés que soulève l'examen d'un certain nombre de points importants inscrits à l'ordre du jour de la présente Conférence générale à savoir le Projet de programme et de budget de l'Unesco, le problème des déclarations sur les mass médias et sur la race, enfin Jérusalem et l'application de la résolution 4.129.
12.5 Monsieur le Président, vu que le Projet d'ajustements au Plan a moyen terme apporte une amélioration qualitative au Plan tel qu'il a été adopté a la dix-neuvieme session de la Conférence générale, en ce sens qu'il satisfait aux observations et a l'orientation contenues dans la résolution
19 C/100, il emporte notre adhésion totale et sans réserve. En effet, les objectifs nouveaux qui y sont introduits, a savoir l'extension de la contribution de 1'Unesco au développement rural intégré, l'amélioration de la condition de la femme et la promotion de sa participation au développement écono- mique, social et culturel, et surtout la promotion de l'enseignement technique et professionnel et le développement du rôle de la jeunesse dans l'action éducative, sociale et culturelle, permettent de mettre un accent particulier sur les apports spécifiques de nos populations rurales, des femmes et des jeunes au développement de leur société.
12.6 Il est satisfaisant de souligner à cet égard que ces objectifs sont ceux-là mêmes que poursuit la révolution du peuple béninois et qui sont définis dans notre discours-programme du 30 novembre
1972 et dans notre premier Plan triennal d'Etat adopté par le Conseil national de la révolution en août 1977.
12.7 Quant au projet de budget soumis à notre examen dans le document 20 C/5, la délégation béninoise estime qu'il découle dialectiquement du programme défini dans ce même document et qu'il mérite par conséquent d'être voté soit tel quel, soit peut-être après avoir été légèrement modifié par les commissions du programme, au terme d'un travail dont on ne saurait se cacher la difficulté.
12.8 Cependant, nous nous permettons de faire quelques critiques sincères mais constructives en vue d'améliorer la situation financière de l'Unesco.
12.9 En effet, il est constant, depuis quelques années déjà, que l'inflation, de même que la crise monétaire internationale, influent de façon inquiétante sur la situation financière de notre Organisa- tion. En particulier, les effets de l'inflation et de la chute du dollar sur le marché des changes transparaissent dans le budget prévu pour l'exercice biennal 1979-1980. A cet égard, nous avons dit dans le passé, que ce soit lors des sessions de la Conférence générale ou lorsque le Bénin était représenté au Conseil exécutif, ce que nous pensons des questions intéressant les finances de notre Organisation, à savoir premièrement que chaque Etat membre doit, en toute souveraineté, assumer toutes ses responsabilités et verser sans hésitation ses contributions dès lors que la Conférence générale a voté le programme et budget ; deuxièmement, que les responsables d'une inflation due à leurs politiques économiques laxistes qui a provoqué l'effondrement des cours des monnaies doivent eux aussi payer les pots cassés ; troisièmement, que pour éviter ces problèmes de taux de change et ceux qui résultent la nécessité d'ajuster les traitements des fonctionnaires de l'Unesco pour tenir compte de l'augmentation du coût de la vie à Paris, il convient d'abandonner la référence au dollar pour adopter une référence à une unité de compte constante qui pourrait être soit l'unité de compte retenue par le Fonds monétaire international, soit l'unité de compte en voie de création en Europe. Une étude dans ce sens s'impose.
12.10 Miroir des problèmes et des contradictions internes de notre Organisation, le budget proposé pour 1979-1980 paraît très élevé en valeur absolue, mais en termes de croissance, il n'augmente que de 6 % ; la part de ce budget qui revient dans le programme ordinaire aux activités opérationnelles, c'est-à-dire à nous qui avons des besoins réels et pressants, est faible ; de sorte que ce budget demeure insuffisant pour le Secrétariat de l'Unesco et pour nous autres pays en développement, alors qu'il est toujours trop "colossal" aux yeux de ceux qu'on appelle les "dix". Un moyen pour l'Unesco de contribuer à atteindre l'objectif qui doit nous guider ici ou ailleurs, c'est-à-dire libérer nos populations et les masses laborieuses de nos pays de la faim de l'ignorance et de la maladie, libérer nos pays de la domination étrangère, consiste à promouvoir des actions rapides, grâce à l'augmen- tation des crédits alloués aux activités opérationnelles.
12.11 Pour augmenter ces crédits, et renforcer de ce fait l'aspect opérationnel des programmes futurs par le financement de petits projets présentés par les Etats membres, l'Unesco doit se donner les moyens de réaliser des économies substantielles dans son budget. Pour y parvenir, l'Unesco doit, selon nous : premièrement, continuer de lutter pour faire accepter sur le plan juridique les principes qui sont fort efficacement et fort heureusement déjà en vigueur en République populaire du Bénin, et ce grâce à l'Unesco : celui de la responsabilité nationale des projets et celui de la transparence et de la simplification de leur gestion ; deuxièmement, poursuivre la politique consistant à employer davantage de cadres nationaux et locaux à la gestion des projets, tout en veillant à leur en confier la direction là où ces cadres existent et réunissent les compétences et les qualités morales requises. Cela est très important, car il n'y a pas meilleure façon d'apprendre qu'en étant attelé à la charrue de l'édification nationale, et parce que surtout, comme le disait un grand éducateur du prolétariat International, "les idées justes ne tombent pas du ciel, elles viennent de la pratique sociale". 11 faut en définitive que l'assistance puisse perdre son utilité du fait qu'elle aura cédé la place à des pro- grammes visant à former le personnel national capable d'assurer la relève et de gérer lui-même, en toute responsabilité, les projets concourant au développement de son pays. A notre humble avis, ce sont 1a des solutions qui devraient permettre d'aider les Etats membres ici présents, et l'on peut objectivement affirmer que ces solutions sont des voies d'avenir.
12.12 Dans cet ordre d'idées, nous devons a la vérité de souligner que notre Organisation a déja amorcé de telles actions. Le Programme de participation, si utile à nos pays - mais dont les res- sources sont limitées - la possibilité de se faire envoyer sur simple demande des consultants, enfin les possibilités qu'offre la résolution 10.1 adoptée par la Conférence générale à sa dix-neuvième session, sont autant d'exemples de cet effort consenti par 1'Unesco, et nous devons en féliciter le Directeur général. Mais il faudra lutter et avancer encore plus hardiment et plus résolument dans
615   cette direction, en agissant au besoin sur les dépenses de personnel et de fonctionnement en vue de dégager des ressources supplémentaires qui puissent étre allouées aux activités opérationnelles, sans que cela entrave le fonctionnement normal du Secrétariat de notre Organisation.
12.13 Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les chefs de délégation, honorables délégués, ce sont la quelques idées-forces que la délégation de la République populaire du Bénin se doit de livrer a la réflexion de la Conférence générale a titre de contribution positive au débat de politique générale sur le programme, parce que mon pays participe efficacement, dans la mesure de ses moyens actuels, à l'exécution du programme de l'Unesco. Si nous versons dans les délais raisonnables notre contribu- tion au budget de l'Organisation, l'effort qu'il nous faut consentir à cet effet est, toute proportion gardée, plus grand pour mon pays que pour certains autres déjà riches et qui continuent de s'enri- chir chaque jour davantage. Malgré cela, la République populaire du Bénin ne recule et ne reculera devant aucun sacrifice pour aider à promouvoir et à développer les activités de l'Unesco sur son sol. Ainsi, la Commission nationale béninoise pour l'Unesco et notre délégation permanente auprès de l'Unesco ont été renforcées en personnel. De même, sans grands moyens, pierre par pierre mais sûrement, nous avançons vers l'achèvement très prochain de la "Maison des activités Unesco" à Porto-Novo, sur la rive de la paresseuse et belle lagune - le lac Nokoue - qui relie Cotonou à Lagos. Cette réalisation permettra de porter à un niveau encore beaucoup plus élevé les activités intéressant l'Unesco en République populaire du Bénin.
12.14 A ce point de notre exposé, il convient de parler des deux projets de déclaration qui sont soumis à la Conférence générale et d'abord de celui qui concerne la communication et les organes d'information. La communication, par ses objectifs, ses utilisations, les échanges et le traitement auxquels elle donne lieu, et la circulation ou la diffusion de l'information qu'elle implique, constitue un aspect essentiel de la vie de toute société humaine, quel que soit son niveau de développement, en même temps qu'une condition du progrès des communautés qui composent celle-ci. Nous ne pou- vons donc que faire nôtre l'analyse du problème telle que nous la présente dans son rapport intéri- maire la Commission internationale d'étude des problèmes de la communication. Cette analyse dégage les grandes tendances qui traduisent, pour citer ledit rapport intérimaire, "l'importance croissante reconnue à la communication en tant que phénomène social et l'intérêt corrélatif accordé au dévelop- pement des moyens et véhicules de l'information" ; "l'incidence et les implications de plus en plus nombreuses du progrès technologique réalisé dans les domaines de la communication" ; "le réexamen de la diffusion internationale de l'information visant à éliminer les situations de dominance et de dépendance politiques, économiques et culturelles” ; "le souci croissant d'un grand nombre de pays en développement de réduire leur dépendance dans le domaine des communications à la suite du processus de décolonisation politique et économique des années 1960" ; et, enfin, "le rôle croissant joué par la communication dans la compréhension internationale et la prise de conscience des grands problèmes mondiaux". Cette longue citation était nécessaire, car elle permet de poser clairement le problème, qui peut d'ailleurs se résumer plus brutalement en cette seule phrase : "Nous les exploi- tés, les colonisés et néo-colonisés, les dominés et les victimes d'une surinformation à sens unique, nous disons : assez ! Et nous réclamons, dans ce domaine comme ailleurs aussi, notre libération et un meilleur équilibre, un dialogue entre égaux, une concertation permanente, une harmonisation des politiques".
12.15 Je dirai que nous réclamons un nouvel ordre international de l'information, bien que la mise en place du nouvel ordre économique international n'ait pas avancé d'un pas depuis 1974. Je l'avais dit à Nairobi il y a deux ans et les faits n'ont fait, depuis, que corroborer mon opinion. Ces faits-là sont têtus et voici la vérité ; tant que ne régnera pas un nouvel ordre dans les rapports entre Etats, nous n'enregistrerons que des constats d'échec. Or, il est clair que dans leurs actes de tous les jours, les puissances occidentales ne cherchent qu'à surmonter les effets de la crise économique et ne veulent réellement ni coopération, ni concertation. Aussi lutterons-nous pour un nouvel ordre international dans le domaine de l'information, parce que nous y voyons un élément important de l'action entreprise par les pays en développement pour forger de nouvelles relations internationales, en général, et pour instaurer le nouvel ordre économique international, en particulier. En termes clairs, cela veut dire que le nouvel ordre économique international et la Conférence Nord-Sud sont de comiques mises en scène et sont voués à l'échec, tant que les puissances actuelles ne voudront pas partager un tant soit peu leur pouvoir. C'est ce que tous ceux qui parlent de contrat de soli- darité, de coresponsabilité et d'autres idées généreuses n'ont pas encore compris.
12.16 Nous, les pays du Tiers Monde, nous ne devons pas nous laisser distraire, car nos rares succès ont été les fruits de nos luttes opiniâtres et de notre solidarité face aux puissants. Si, en effet, 1е salut d'un pays dépend d'abord de sa volonté et de son travail, le salut collectif du Tiers Monde dépendra de sa volonté collective de lutter par tous les moyens - économiques, politiques, diplomatiques et culturels - pour se libérer de la domination étrangère sous toutes ses formes.
12.17 Nous libérer de la domination économique, de la dépendance politique et culturelle, revient pour nous, pays du Tiers Monde, à lutter pour un développement rapide qui soit, bien sûr, "un développement endogène, conçu et réalisé avec la participation effective et consciente des masses populaires et visant à la satisfaction des besoins fondamentaux de nos peuples. Ici aussi nous devons oser lutter et oser vaincre".
12.18' Et pour lutter et vaincre, nous pensons que deux tâches fondamentales s'imposent. La pre- mière consiste à organiser, mobiliser, conscientiser les masses laborieuses de sorte que doté d'un détachement d'avant-garde, d'un état-major opérationnel ferme et lucide, le peuple entier puisse réellement prendre en mains son propre développement et qu'il soit réellement lui-même, qu'il soit le sujet et l'objet de son développement.
12.19 La seconde tâche consiste à former les jeunes générations. En effet, le problème de la jeunesse est un problème crucial pour tout pays, mais plus particulièrement pour les pays du Tiers Monde. Si tous les pays ne lui accordent pas la même importance, les pays progressistes en général en ont une conscience si nette que leurs dirigeants politiques en font une préoccupation majeure. Car derrière ce problème de la jeunesse, c'est la question concrète de la politique d'indépendance à mener qui se profile, parce que les jeunes symbolisent et représentent l'avenir dans le présent. Pour cette raison essentielle, la question de la jeunesse - son organisation, sa formation et sa mobilisation - est prise au sérieux dans certains pays et traitée avec lucidité, fermeté et esprit de suite.
12.20 Un aspect important de la formation de la jeunesse est confié aux ministères chargés de l'édu- cation et de l'enseignement. En République populaire du Bénin, il s'agit pour nous, à la faveur de notre réforme profonde et radicale de l'éducation, de former un homme béninois de type nouveau, un citoyen conscient des réalités de son pays, intellectuellement et techniquement capable, idéologi- quement et politiquement éduqué et physiquement équilibré.
12.21 Dans notre système qui se met progressivement en place, l'école est donc conçue comme une unité de production où l'enseignement théorique est intimement lié à la pratique et où l'éducation se fait par la production et pour la production.
12.22 Aussi l'année scolaire 1978 est-elle caractérisée dans notre pays par les faits marquants que voici. Avec l'explosion des effectifs à tous les niveaux d'enseignement, l'enseignement supérieur en pleine réorganisation et le développement des enseignements moyen et de base - tout cela dû à une démocratisation poussée et planifiée de l'enseignement -, le taux de scolarisation dans notre pays a été porté à 47,8 %. Plus spécifiquement, dans l'enseignement primaire, les effectifs ont augmenté par rapport à 1977 de 15,4 %, alors que le nombre de classes augmentait de 18 %, et les filles repré- sentent 31,9 % des élèves. Dans l'enseignement moyen, l'accroissement des effectifs est de 8,5 %, et la proportion des filles est de 27,56 %.
12.23 Les résultats des actions hardies entreprises par l'Etat révolutionnaire du Bénin qui consacre
39,5 % de son budget de fonctionnement à l'éducation et à l'enseignement, sont quantitativement encore trop faibles dans le domaine de la formation des formateurs pour qu'ils puissent être évalués ; mais ces résultats sont qualitativement très appréciables. En effet, ils ont provoqué un changement spectaculaire dans la mentalité des élèves et des étudiants qui, regroupés au sein des coopératives scolaires et universitaires, consolident leur amour pour la patrie, acquièrent le sens de la dignité et de l'honneur, le goût pour le travail productif, le respect et la notion de saine gestion des biens de la communauté, et font l'apprentissage de la démocratie.
12.24 La lutte anti-impérialiste est l'exigence de notre temps, et la jeunesse est le fer de lance de cette lutte opiniâtre que nous devons mener pour l'instauration d'un ordre international plus humain et plus juste, car aucune libération n'est possible en dehors de cette lutte. Que des stations de radio occidentales parlant de la déclaration sur les mass médias aient, au mois d'octobre 1978, accusé l'Unesco de faire un pas dans ce qu'ils ont appelé "la mauvaise direction" et de devenir "un puissant ennemi de la liberté”, n'a rien de surprenant et ne doit rien changer à notre volonté de continuer, sur le plan de la communication, notre lutte de libération commencée depuis bientôt quatre ans, et ce jusqu'à la victoire finale. C'est pourquoi nous pensons pour notre part que ce projet de déclaration sur les mass médias, maintes fois amendé au point d'en perdre son âme, constitue un minimum, une plate-forme de ralliement pour la vingtième session de la Conférence générale.
12.25 Pour ce qui est du Projet de déclaration sur la race et les préjugés raciaux, nous serons très brefs. Nous avons déjà dit à Nairobi ce que nous pensons du racisme et de l'apartheid. Ce Projet de déclaration sur la race et les préjugés raciaux qui veut contenter tout le monde reste bien en-deçà de notre point de vue. Nous sommes donc sûrs que personne, à moins d'être un agent stipendié des régimes minoritaires racistes de l'Afrique australe, .ne se refusera a l'adopter.
12.26, Que les grandes puissances qui ont toujours promis protection et assistance dans tous les domaines à ces racistes de l'Afrique australe, tout en adoptant mille et une résolutions aux Nations Unies, prennent enfin ouvertement leurs responsabilités et se fassent obéir de leurs commis sud- africains.
12.27 J'aborderai enfin la question de Jérusalem et de l'application de la résolution 4.129 de la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale. A ce sujet, il est juste de féliciter le Directeur général et le Conseil exécutif pour tous les efforts qu'ils ont déployés et continuent de déployer en vue de mettre en oeuvre la résolution 4.129. Le présent rapport soumis à l'examen de la Conférence générale, qui a été établi grâce aux multiples missions effectuées à Jérusalem par le représentant personnel du Directeur général, ne permet pas au stade actuel de prendre une décision. Compte tenu de l'importance exceptionnelle des biens culturels visés par ladite résolution, nous recommandons que le Directeur général soit à nouveau invité à poursuivre courageusement ses efforts en vue d'assurer la présence réelle de l'Unesco dans la ville de Jérusalem et à formuler les conclusions définitives qu'appellent les dispositions du paragraphe 6 de la résolution 4.129, pour permettre enfin, sur la base de données réelles, l'application effective de toutes les résolutions adoptées à cet effet par la Conférence générale et le Conseil exécutif.
12.28 En tout état de cause, il est temps que Israël comprenne qu'en tant qu'Etat membre de l'Unesco, il ne doit pas continuer plus longtemps à enfreindre les dispositions de l'Acte constitutif de notre Organisation. A cet égard aussi, les grandes puissances doivent prendre leurs responsabilités.
15 12.29 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, une nouvelle victoire que nous nous devons de souligner c'est le vote intervenu lundi dernier, par lequel la Namibie vient d'étre admise comme membre de 1'Unesco. Nous nous réjouissons de cette décision historique prise a cette session, car c'est là un encouragement clair et net qui vient d'être donné au peuple namibien qui lutte pour son indépendance et sa libération depuis des années, tout simplement parce qu'il a le malheur de vivre dans une région au sol et au sous-sol très riches. Nous souhaitons la bienvenue à la Namibie parmi nous et nous espérons que cette victoire sera comprise à Pretoria comme l'expression de la volonté de toute la communauté internationale de voir l'Afrique du Sud libérer le territoire namibien en atten- dant que ces quelques Blancs libèrent aussi l'Azanie.
12.30 En tout état de cause, la lutte continue et elle continuera ; comme l'a si bien dit notre grand camarade de lutte, le président Mathieu Kerekou, "Oser lutter, oser vaincre l'impérialisme interna- tional, telle est la détermination marquée des peuples militants d'Afrique, plus que jamais décidés à livrer des combats successifs aussi longtemps que cela sera nécessaire, confiants en leur propre courage pour anéantir complètement tous ces monstres hideux qui peuplent actuellement notre beau et grand continent, l'Afrique."
12.31 Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les ministres, honorables délégués, au terme de cet exposé, les quelques points importants de notre ordre du jour passés rapidement en revue laissent apparaître les difficultés présentes et futures auxquelles notre Organisation se trouve confrontée et qui sont des zones d'ombre sur le tableau radieux des victoires intellectuelles que l'Unesco a remportées dans le domaine de la science, l'éducation et la culture depuis des décennies, et plus particulièrement depuis la dernière session de la Conférence générale à Nairobi. Ces victoires sont nécessairement une oeuvre commune, l'oeuvre de tous les Etats membres dont les représentants, aux moments les plus critiques de la vie de notre Organisation, ont su toujours faire preuve de compréhension et de lucidité.
12.32 Ces victoires sont plus particulièrement l'oeuvre de notre directeur général, M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow qui, à la tête du Secrétariat, a su donner à l'Organisation une méthode de travail qui a permis de trouver des solutions amiables et justes à tous les problèmes, même les plus épineux, comme il a su créer, à notre satisfaction générale, un climat favorable à une collaboration active et très étroite entre le Secrétariat et le Conseil exécutif. Ce sont là pour nous des sources d'une immense satisfaction légitime, et nous saisissons cette occasion de remercier le Directeur général pour sa méthode de travail faite d'ouverture d'esprit, de franchise et de liberté. Nous souhaitons que cet esprit aille en s'améliorant, car c'est là une des contributions souhaitées par ma délégation et une exigence de la lutte commune que mènent et que mèneront les Etats membres pour un nouvel ordre international plus équitable et plus humain.
12.33 Puissent lestravaux de la Conférence générale se dérouler dans cet esprit, dans la franchise, dans la liberté, dans la compréhension et dans le respect mutuel pour que vive à jamais l'esprit de Nairobi sous les cieux de Paris. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
13.1 Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la République populaire du Bénin.
13.2 La séance est levée. The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m. La séance est levée a 13 h.10 Se levanta la sesión a las 13.10 Заседание закрывается B 13.10 > da; SLI y. 9 das IJ! deLJ! + ‎ةسلجلا ss,