First plenary meeting
24 October 1978 at 10.20 a.m. President: Mr. TOWEETT (Kenya) Première séance plénière
1.1 Mr. Taaitta TOWEETT (Kenya), Temporary President: Mr. Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr. Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the twentieth session of the General Conference.
1.2 You are now invited to listen to a performance by the Bulgarian National Choir, "Svetoslav Obretenov". (The Conference then listened to the "Hymn of Joy" from Beethoven's Ninth Symphony)
1.3 Ladies and gentlemen, you will certainly permit me to thank in your name the Bulgarian National Choir, "Svetoslav Obretenov", and the Bulgarian authorities who made possible its presence among us today. Beethoven's music and Schiller's poetry provided this magnificent and fitting opening to our General Conference. May it be a good omen for the twentieth session; may we all remember at all times the poet's words "Revenge and hatred both forgot ... Let all the world be peace and love...
1.4 May I address to all of you, heads of delegations, delegates, representatives and observers of non-Member States and international governmental and non-governmental organizations, to journalists of all the mass media as well as to members of the Secretariat, my warmest wishes of welcome on this solemn occasion. My special greetings go to four of my illustrious predecessors as Presidents of the General Conference, who are among us as members of their delegations: Paulo de Berrédo Carneiro, Bedrettin Tuncei, Toru Haguiwara and Magda Joboru. I cannot prevent myself at the same time from
255    feeling a small touch of nostalgia when I realize that this is the last speech I have to make as Pres- ident of the General Conference. But in this personal feeling of nostalgia I am comforted by the thought that, although Presidents come and go, our Organization remains and flourishes, assuming more and more important tasks and fulfilling them with significant success. Each session of the General Conference is an event of major importance in the life of our Organization. It pleases me to think that the last, nineteenth session of the General Conference, was also such a major event and that it was perhaps even a little more important than some of the preceding ones. In our country we are very proud that the positive spirit to resolve conflicts through negotiation that permeated the nineteenth session is now widely known - even outside Unesco circles - as "the spirit of Nairobi". We are very proud because we think that our beautiful capital Nairobi, our beloved country Kenya, and our great African continent had something to do with this, and contributed to the undeniable success of the nineteenth session.
1.5 Ladies and gentlemen, before I say a few words about the main tasks with which we will have to deal at this twentieth session, I wish to recall the memory of those who have left us forever in the course of the past two years.
1.6 Several of our Member States have suffered the loss of their Heads of State. I refer to Presi- dent Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed of India, President Makarios of Cyprus, Amir Sabah Al-Salem Al-Sabah of Kuwait, and President Jomo Kenyetta of Kenya. The Catholic Church has also suffered the loss in close succession of two Popes, Paul VI and John-Paul I. When we look around us we see a great number of familiar faces of people who have followed the life of the Organization for a long time. But unhappily there are also faces which we shall not see again, like those of former members of the Executive Board, Ilmo Hela (Finland), Juan Marinello (Cuba), Georges Averoff (Greece), Jean de Broglie (France), Sir Ben Bowen Thomas (United Kingdom) and Daniel Mfinanga (Tanzania). We have also lost three permanent delegates, Ramon Caballero de Bedoya (Paraguay), Anselmo Paulino Alvarez (Dominican Republic) and Oscar Bertholin y Galvez (Guatemala). The Secretariat suffered a loss of a person many of us knew very well, Manolo Jiménez, a past Secretary of the General Conference.
1.7 I now invite all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to observe one minute's silence in their memory, and in memory of those whom I may have omitted to mention. (The Conference observed one minute's silence)
1.8 Ladies and gentlemen, permit me now on a much brighter note to greet among us, in our great Unesco family, new Member States that have joined the Organization since the last session of the General Conference: they are Cape Verde, Comoros and Swaziland. I understand that before long we may also have the pleasure of two more Member States joining our ranks: Namibia and Dominica. We are thus a little closer to our goal, which is the universality of our Organization. We hope, also, that before long we may celebrate in these rooms the entry as sovereign States of our remain- ing brothers still suffering under colonial rule, particularly in Southern Africa.
1.9 I shall not dwell on the results of Unesco's work over the past two years nor go into any detail with regard to the future programme. The Director-General will do that tomorrow much better than I ever could.
1.10 A few words only then on the work which is before us. For the next five weeks you are going to spend days and days (and maybe even some nights) in plenary meetings, in commissions, committees and working groups, discussing, shaping and approving the programme of Unesco for the next two years: in certain aspects, particularly in the fields of general policy orientation and normative action, for many more years to come. I specifically wish to mention and underline here the importance of the proposed Declaration on Race and Racial Prejudice, Unesco's contribution to the establishment of a new international economic order, its contribution to peace and its tasks with respect to the promotion of human rights and the elimination of colonialism and racialism, and finally the possibilities Unesco may have to help the creation of public opinion conducive to disarmament. I am confident that under the wise leadership of our dynamic Director-General, Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, we shall succeed and reach the high goals we are setting ourselves.
1.11 Before concluding this address, I must mention one more important event which will mark this twentieth session: towards its end, we shall celebrate the thirtieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. During these thirty years, Unesco has played an important role in activities connected with the furtherance of human rights; in the last few years, in particular, the Executive Board, through its Committee on Conventions and Recommendations, has devoted much attention and time to Unesco's role in the protection of human rights in the fields of its competence.
1.12 Ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that - probably like you - I have been deeply impressed by the great amount of work done by the Executive Board and the Secretariat during the past biennium in the preparation of our next Programme and Budget, and in preparing the agenda and all the documents for our present session. I wish, therefore, in your name, to thank the Executive Board, its Chairman and members and, in particular, the Director-General, who guided this great operation with his usual efficiency.
1.13 Permit me, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude with a heartfelt wish: may the twentieth session of the General Conference mark a further step forward on our way towards the fulfilment of Unesco's noble aims.
1.14 According to our Constitution, these include a wide diffusion of culture and the education of humanity for justice, liberty and peace, which are indispensable to the dignity of man and constitute a sacred duty, which all the nations must fulfil in a spirit of mutual assistance and concern. Thank you. ADDRESS BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD/ALLOCUTION DU PRESIDENT DU CONSEIL EXECUTIF/DISCURSO DEL PRESIDENTE DEL CONSEJO EJECUTIVO/ ВЫСТУПЛЕНИЕ ПРЕДСЕДАТЕЛЯ ИСПОЛНИТЕЛЬНОГО СОВЕТА/ ىذيفنتلاسلجملاسيئرباطخ The PRESIDENT: I now invite the Chairman of the Executive Board to take the floor.
3.1 Mr. MARTIN (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland), Chairman of the Execu- tive Board: Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Executive Board and also in my own name, I should like as you have just done to welcome to our General Conference all the delegations of Member States, the delegation of one Associate Member State and also the observer from the Holy See. I should like, too, to welcome the representatives of the various organizations of the United Nations system, the observers from the international regional organizations and the non-governmental organi- zations belonging to categories A and B, with which Unesco has for so many years enjoyed close and active working relations.
3.2 Mr. President, in your opening address you referred to the presence among us of distinguished ex-Presidents of the General Conference and Chairmen of the Executive Board. I would like to echo your remarks very sincerely. It is indeed for so many of us who have been with the Organization for so long to see friends of that kind among us again today.
3.3 It has been the custom of my predecessors as Chairmen of the Board to mark the continuous progress of the Organization towards universality and I, like you, Mr. President, am glad to be able today to record one further step along that road. Unesco has at the moment 144 Member States and, as you have just mentioned, it is likely that by the end of the Conference that number will be increased still further. For this session of the General Conference, Mr. President, we have returned to Headquarters, having held two years ago, and as you yourself observed, a most remarkable and successful session of the Conference in your country; a success to which you, if you will allow me to say so, made a very happy and substantial contribution. Our work there was influenced by what we all came to call "the spirit of Nairobi". All I can say is that I hope that here again in Paris, we shall be able to maintain that same spirit of understanding, goodwill and co-operation. Such a spirit will be even more vital to our deliberations during the coming few weeks than it was in Nairobi. But I am sure that with the co-operation of all delegations we shall be able to maintain that spirit.
3.4 It would be foolish to deny that we have very difficult problems to face, problems on which we do not hold unanimous views. Our attitudes naturally differ according to the nature of the social, economic and political systems to which each of us belongs. I am nevertheless confident that in the spirit of understanding and co-operation which marked all our deliberations two years ago we shall on this occasion, too, do our best to reach agreement.
3.5 Some problems in particular have received considerable attention during the last year or two in circles outside the immediate ambit of Unesco. We shall, of course, be reported in the world press and in other ways, through what are called the media. This is entirely right and proper, but I would like now, at the very outset of our Conference, to make an appeal to all who are concerned with reporting us to the world outside these walls. Most certainly report us. We wish our views to be known. Most certainly report out differences of views. We are not ashamed of those differences, even though we are here to try and arrive at a common understanding on a common basis. But, please, when you do report our deliberations, report them accurately, fairly and objectively, because it is only in this way that Unesco will be able to present itself properly to the world, and that you in your turn will be able to help us in Unesco and, at the same time, fulfil the true purposes of your profession.
3.6 Mr. President, although they are not - I believe - in this room at this moment, I would like on behalf of everyone to thank the Bulgarian National Choir "Svetoslav Obretenov" for providing an unusual, but extremely pleasant and uplifting beginning to the Conference.
3.7 1 might be tempted, Mr. President, to refer to all the difficult problems with which we shall have to deal in the course of the next few weeks, but I shall not do so, for two reasons. Firstly, I do not wish to spoil the atmosphere of our opening ‘day; and secondly, because, as I have said, I believe that we shall face these problems with confidence. "The spirit of Nairobi" has, I think, held good in the meetings of the Executive Board during the past two years, in which I have had the honour to be its Chairman. I am confident that the same spirit will remain here in Paris during the next few weeks, and that is why I, both personally and on behalf of your Executive Board, look forward to our deliberations, in the expectation that they will take Unesco and all its Member States further along the road to universal goodwill, co-operation and achievement. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
257    ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE/CONSTITUTION DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES POUVOIRS/CONSTITUCION DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION DE PODERES/ СОЗДАНИЕ КОМИТЕТА ПО ПРОВЕРКЕ ПОЛНОМОЧИЙ
4.1 The PRESIDENT: I thank the Chairman of the Executive Board for his speech.
4.2 Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the provisions of Rule 27 of our Rules of Procedure, it is now my duty to propose the composition of the Credentials Committee.
4.3 1 therefore propose that the following nine countries be elected to serve on this Committee: Austria, Chile, Costa Rica, Czechoslovakia, Gabon, Nepal, Sudan, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United States of America.
4.4 There being no objections, I consider that the Credentials Committee is constituted with the membership I have just proposed.
4.5 The Credentials Committee will hold its first meeting immediately after adjournment of this plenary meeting. It will present its first report this afternoon, at the beginning of our second plenary meeting.
4.6 Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is adjourned, but before you leave the room, I should like to invite you to listen once again to the admirable choir which gave us such immense pleasure at the beginning of our meeting. The meeting rose at 10.50 a.m. La séance est levée a 10 h.50 Se levanta la sesión a las 10.50 Заседание закрывается B 10.50 labo ido itaie ‎ندسلابم