Thirty-third plenary meeting
23 November 1978 at 10.15 a.m. President: Mr. LEBLANC(Canada) Trente-troisième séance plénière
1.1 Le PRESIDENT. - o Je déclare ouverte la trente-troisieme séance pléniere de la Conférence générale. Nous avons a examiner aujourd'hui les points 14, 18 et 25, 26 et 27 de l'ordre du jour, mais auparavant je vou- drais vous communiquer une décision du Bureau.
1.2 A sa treizième séance tenue le 22 novembre, le Bureau a été saisi par le président de la Com- mission du programme IV (Culture et communication) de la suite à donner à un projet de résolution
(20 C/DR.310) présenté par l'Argentine sur le point 12 de l'ordre du jour et traitant de questions d'ordre général au sujet desquelles la Commission estimait ne pas être compétente. A la suite de consultations, la délégation de l'Argentine a accepté de retirer le projet de résolution en question, compte dûment tenu d'une recommandation du Bureau tendant à ce que le Directeur général procède, en étroite collaboration avec le Conseil exécutif, à une étude des questions soulevées dans le projet de résolution 20 C/DR.310.
1.3 Cette recommandation a été faite par le Bureau à l'unanimité.
1.4 S'il n'y a pas d'objections, je considère qu'elle est approuvée.
977    UNESCO'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A NEW INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORDER (item 14 of the agenda) AND ROLE OF UNESCO IN GENERATING A CLIMATE OF OPINION CONDUCIVE TO THE HALTING OF THE ARMS RACE AND THE TRANSITION TO DISARMAMENT (item 18 of the agenda): DRAFT RESOLUTION: SUBMITTED BY THE DRAFTING AND NEGOTIATION GROUP (20 C/PLEN/DR. 18 Rev. and 20 C/PLEN/DR. 21) CONTRIBUTION DE L'UNESCO A L'INSTAURATION D'UN NOUVEL ORDRE ECONOMIQUE INTERNATIONAL (point 14 de l'ordre du jour) ET ROLE DE L'UNESCO DANS LA CREATION D'UNE OPINION FAVORABLE A L'ARRET DE LA COURSE AUX ARMEMENTS ET AU PASSAGE AU DESARMEMENT (point 18 de 1'ordre du jour) : PROJETS DE RESOLUTION PRESENTES PAR LE GROUPE DE REDACTION ET DE NEGOCIATION (20 C/PLEN/DR, 18 Rev. et20C/PLEN/DR:21) CONTRIBUCION DE LA UNESCO AL ESTABLECIMIENTO DE UN NUEVO ORDEN ECONOMICO INTERNACIONAL (punto 14 del Orden del Día) Y EL PAPEL DE LA UNESCO EN LA FORMACION DE UNA OPINION PUBLICA FAVORABLE A LA INTERRUPCION DE LA CARRERA ARMAMENTISTA Y A LA TRANSICION AL DESARME (punto 18 del Orden del Día): PROYECTOS DE RESOLUCION PRESENTADOS POR EL GRUPO DE REDACCION Y NEGOCIACION (20 C/PLEN/DR:18 Rev. y
2.1 Le PRESIDENT.- , Nous passons maintenant à l'examen des points 14 et 18 de l'ordre du jour. Je vais inviter le président du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation a nous présenter le document 20 C/PLEN/DR.18 Rev. relatif au point 14 (la version francaise porte la cote 20 C/PLEN/DR.18) et le document 20 C/PLEN/ DR.21 qui a trait au point 20. Après cette présentation, nous examinerons successivement chacun des points.
2.2 Le président du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation a la parole.
3.1 Mr. GARBO (Norway), Chairman of the Drafting and Negotiation Group: Thank you, Mr. President. In my capacity as Chairman of the Drafting and Negotiation Group, I have the honour to set before the plenary of the General Conference draft resolu- tion 20 C/PLEN/DR.18 Rev. As you rightly said, Mr. President, delegates who are using the French language may continue to refer to document 20 C/PLEN/DR.18, as no revision of the French text of that document was necessary.
3.2 The draft resolution before you is submitted under item 14 of the agenda (Unesco's contri- bution to the establishment of a new international economic order). Its text is based on draft resol- utions 20 C/PLEN/DR.3 and DR.4 submitted by India and 20 C/PLEN/DR.9 submitted by Algeria, Yugoslavia, Sudan, Afghanistan, Cuba and other Member States. The two original Indian drafts deal with the international importance of moral attitudes conducive to peaceful co-operation, as well as the social need for co-operation among the developing countries in the areas of Unesco's competence. The other draft represents in essence the views of the non-aligned nations on Unesco's contribution to the implementation of the resolutions adopted by the United Nations General Assembly concerning the establishment of a new international economic order.
3.3 In addition, the Drafting and Negotiation Group made use of other relevant documents, particularly the report of the Director-General contained in document 20 C/12; and it was naturally able to draw on many of the statements on this matter made during the general policy debate.
3.4 The Drafting and Negotiation Group established a working party under the chairmanship of Mr. Turkson from Ghana to negotiate the final text which is now before you. The working party unanimously submitted a text which incorporates some of the key ideas voiced from this rostrum by many heads of delegations, and which were also reflected in the original drafts considered by the Group.
3.5 Mr. President, the draft resolution before you emphasizes that the efforts made up to now in the application of decisions concerning the establishment of a new international economic order have not produced the practical effects expected. It therefore invites Member States to intensify their efforts, and expresses a number of actions which may be implemented by the Director-General within
978    the framework of the Approved Programme and Budget. Emphasis is inter alia laid on "studies designed to deepen awareness of the concepts and principles on which a new international economic order should be based". The Director-General is likewise invited "to intensify the action needed to inform and arouse public opinion", and "to devote special attention in the implementation of the biennial programme ... as well as in the preparation of the Medium-Term Plan for 1983-1989, to activities which can make a direct contribution to the attainment of ... the objectives of the new international economic order".
3.6 Mr. President, it was again made clear during our discussions that while all Member States agree with the general concept and the broad objectives of the new international economic order, some industrialized countries still do not consider that the texts of the Declaration and Programme of Action provide a fully acceptable basis for the establishment of such an order. As you know, reser- vations and clarifications on this question have been voiced in practically every body of the United Nations system, and we may expect them to be voiced again here. These variations in the overall approach to the question of the new international economic order explain why, in a spirit of consensus, the Drafting and Negotiation Group has confined its specific references to decisions and resolutions adopted by the United Nations on this matter to the preamble of the draft before you, while the wording of the operative paragraphs refrains from referring specifically to those texts.
3.7 The only real difficulty encountered by the Drafting and Negotiation Group was in connection with the wording of the text concerning development strategy in relation to "basic human needs". It is obvious that this latter expression is given different meanings by different participants in the international development debate. Some interpret the claim for satisfaction of basic human needs as a call for doing first things first and a demand that the basic needs of all be taken care of before meeting the luxury demands of some. In this sense, the notion of satisfying basic human needs may include the full development of the human personality; at the national level it may imply a strategy of self-reliant economic, scientific and technological policy. Others, however, see the strategy for satisfaction of "basic human needs" as a very restrictive concept and as one which reduces the development effort to a question of feeding the hungry. In this sense, the concept might imply the establishment of a sort of minimum level of material need satisfaction for poor peoples, while rich peoples might continue to increase their consumption. Such a concept would thus appear to disregard the need for structural changes in the present global distribution of economic power and resources.
3.8 There can be no doubt, Mr. President, that the disagreement concerning the usefulness of the notion of "basic human needs" in development strategies is partly terminological, since those part- icipating in the debate do not always employ the expression in the same sense. But the Drafting and Negotiation Group has certainly not endeavoured to deal with this complicated semantic contro- versy, and the concept of basic human needs will continue to be a subject of reflection and discussion in international studies and in the elaboration of development strategies.
3.9 The Drafting and Negotiation Group does, however, state in its draft resolution that the con- cept "cannot replace the concrete ... principles on which a new international economic order should be built" and that it is "insufficient as a basis for planning and programming of Unesco's action for the establishment of a new international economic order". The language which we have used in this regard in the eighth preambular paragraph and in paragraph 9 of operative part B is indeed the product of lengthy discussion, careful attention and cautious wording, in which full account was taken of the debate on basic human needs which took place during the 105th session of the Executive Board, and of the Board's conclusions. Though some members might have preferred other words, this is the text that best satisfied the Drafting and Negotiation Group as a whole.
3.10 Mr. President, in its entirety the draft resolution before you thus provides a broad framework for reflection and action by Unesco in relation to the establishment of a new international economic order. In particular, we wish Unesco to participate fully in the preparation of the Third Development Decade. We strongly believe that such participation should be based on a critical study of what has been done up to now, within its fields of competence, to implement the strategy of the Second Develop- ment Decade and to establish a new world economic order. We see Unesco's role as that of a key member of the United Nations system with essential responsibilities in fields which are decisive for human and social development.
3.11 Mr. President, in preparing the draft resolution before you, the Drafting and Negotiation Group has, in conformity with its mandate, sought a consensus. I therefore hope, Mr. President, that it will be adopted by the plenary of the General Conference in the same spirit of consensus, co-operation and goodwill. Thank you, Mr. President.
4.1 Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le président du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation de l'excellente présentation qu'il vient de nous faire du projet de résolution proposé par le Groupe sur le point 14 de l'ordre du jour.
4.2 Etant donné qu'il doit nous quitter pour présider une séance du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation, je voudrais maintenant l'inviter à nous présenter le projet de résolution que nous soumet le Groupe sur le point 18 de l'ordre du jour - Rôle de l'Unesco dans la création d'une opinion pu- blique favorable à l'arrêt de la course aux armements et au passage au désarmement.
5. Mr. GARBO (Norway), Chairman of the Drafting and Negotiation Group: Thank you, Mr. President. With your permission, I would suggest that if there are any specific questions concerning item 14, it might perhaps be better to deal with them before deliberating on item 18.
33 6.1 Le PRESIDENT.- RS Merci. Quelqu'un a-t-il des questions & poser au président du Groupe de rédaction et de négo- ciation ? Le Portugal et la Jamaique demandent la parole.
6.2 Je donne la parole a la déléguée du Portugal.
7.1 Mrs. PINTASILGO (Portugal): Thank you, Mr. President. I am very grateful to the Chairman of the Drafting and Negotiation Group for his very clear presentation of draft resolution 20 C/PLEN/DR.18 Rev., and especially for his careful differentiation between the two approaches referred to in the eighth preambular paragraph and in paragraph 9 of operative part B of this resolution.
7.2 1 do not wish to repeat what I have elaborated on at length during the 105th session of the Executive Board, but as we are now in the plenary of the General Conference, I should like to make the following statement. My delegation does not consider that document 20 C/12 is a sufficient foundation for such a clear stand on the concept of basic human needs as is set out in the two paragraphs of the draft resolution I have just mentioned. We believe that the manner in which it is now stated amounts more or less to a kind of a "censorship" exercised by this Organization in relation to a concept which has so far not yet been sufficiently worked out. I refer particularly to the insertion of the concept of "basic human needs" in the context of other "concrete concepts and principles", which are mentioned in the preamble but are in no way defined in the draft resolution. It therefore seems to me that this is a standpoint which has no cultural foundations so far; and my delegation is very reluctant to accept these two paragraphs as they stand.
7.3 However, recognizing that consensus has been reached in the Drafting and Negotiation Group, I would like to ask, in the interests of intellectual consistency, whether the Drafting and Negotiation Group, through its Chairman, could accept the introduction of four words, which would enable me fully to accept the text. If so, then we would add, in the eighth preambular paragraph and after the words "development strategy", the phrase "at the international level", and leave the remainder of the text as drafted. The same four words would be introduced in paragraph 9 of operative part B of the resolution, in the penultimate line, so that the text would read "... Unesco's action at the international level for the establishment of a new international economic order".
7.4 The reason for this suggestion should be very clear: 1 certainly do not subscribe to the "minimal material need satisfaction" concept, which all countries reject, including my own; but I do believe that it would be extremely dangerous for Unesco as a whole to place a sort of embargo on the use of such a concept when considering development strategy at the national level. Thank you, Mr. President.
8.1 Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie la déléguée du Portugal. Je crois comprendre qu'elle ne pose pas à proprement parler une question au président du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation. Celui-ci veut-il tout de même intervenir ?
9.1 Mr. GARBO (Norway), Chairman of the Drafting and Negotiation Group: Thank you, Mr. President. I appreciate Mrs. Pintasilgo's concern. This was a question which gave rise to quite a lot of discussion in the Executive Board, and we had a very lengthy debate on the same matter in the Drafting and Negotiation Group. Nevertheless, I would be extremely reluctant to accept here an amendment to the text adopted by the Drafting and Negotiation Group. I believe that Mrs. Pintasilgo will find that this text comes closer to her points of view than that which was adopted by the Executive Board. Moreover, it was agreed upon by the Drafting and Negotiation Group after very very lengthy discussion, and I am afraid of doing something here now which might disturb and undermine the balance which we achieved in the Group.
9.2 At the same time, I feel that the addition of the words "at the international level" is not really necessary, because in both the preambular and the operative paragraphs we are only talking about the concept of "basic human needs" in relation to the question of a new international economic order. We are not in any way taking a stand on the concept of the strategy of satisfying basic human needs as a national development strategy: we are merely relating this concept to the problem of the establish- ment of a new international economic order in implementation of the decisions of the United Nations.
9.3 I therefore believe, Mr. President, that Mrs. Pintasilgo's concern is in fact taken care of in the text presented to you, and I would appeal to her not to insist on her amendment. Thank you, Mr. President.
10. Le PRESIDENT.- Merci. Je donne la parole a la déléguée du Portugal. IF SMrs = PINTASILGO' (Portugal): Thank you Mr. President. 1 am very grateful to the Chairman of the Drafting and Negotiation Group for his explanation which is extremely clear and gives full satisfaction to my delegation. I would therefore be happy if it could be clearly stated in the record that it is our understanding that this paragraph is concerned with development strategy at the international level. Thank you, Mr. President.
12. Le PRESIDENT.- 33 Je remercie la déléguée du Portugal et je donne la parole au délégué de la Jamaique qui a, je crois, un éclaircissement a demander.
13.1 Mr. FOWLER (Jamaica): Mr. President, I shall be extremely brief. The Jamaican delegation fully supports 20 C/PLEN/ DR.18 Rev. The head of our delegation, the Honourable Phyllis McPherson-Russel, said in her statement in the general policy debate that "first and foremost it is the view of my Government that the creation of a new international economic order is the central issue facing mankind at this time".
13.2 We wish, in particular, to call attention to paragraph 11 of operative part B of the draft resolution and to emphasize its importance. I wish to remind the Conference that in the policy debate we proposed that Unesco should assist in undertaking a fundamental review and critique of traditional and prevailing economic assumptions, theory and practice with a view to developing a working model of the "new economics" based on rigorous analysis. Mr. President, Unesco has estab- lished a reputation for monumental historical studies such as "The Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind". At this time Unesco should set itself the task of producing a study of equal scholarship and authority, which would describe the characteristics of the new international economic order, examine the implications of this new phenomena and identify the dynamic interrelationship between the new international economic expectations and the social and educational adjustments and rearrangements necessary for its successful introduction.
13.3 Mr. President, all the discussions in the last four weeks have emphasized the urgent need for a study in depth of the new international economic order in all its interdisciplinary aspects. We believe that a scholarly, expert and encyclopedic study would make a major contribution to international understanding and progress. We believe, also, that such an encyclopedic study would constitute a landmark in this critical period which our civilization is facing. We wish, therefore, to reiterate the importance we attach to paragraph 11 of operative part B of the draft resolution. Thank you, Mr. President.
14.1 Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le délégué de la Jamaique.
14.2 Je vous rappelle que, comme l'a dit le président du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation, nous nous trouvons devant un texte qui a fait l'objet d'un consensus au sein du Groupe et qui est donc appelé à être voté par consensus. Je soumettrai donc à l'approbation de la Conférence générale le texte du projet de résolution 20 C/PLEN/DR.18 dans sa version francaise ou 20 C/PLEN/DR.18 Rev. dans les autres langues. Ensuite les délégués qui auraient des observations ou des réserves a formu- ler pourront les présenter et leurs déclarations seront reproduites intégralement dans le compte rendu de cette séance.
14.3 Puis-je considérer que la Conférence est disposée a adopter ce projet de résolution sans vote ?
14.4 Puisqu'il n'y a pas d'objections, la résolution est adoptée. e
14.5 Avant d'entendre vos observations sur la résolution qui vient d'étre votée, je voudrais, si personne ne s'y oppose, permettre au président du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation de présen- ter le projet de résolution 20 C/PLEN/DR.21 qui a trait au point 18 de l'ordre du jour. Le président du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation a la parole.
15.1 Mr. GARBO (Norway), Chairman of the Drafting and Negotiation Group: Thank you, Mr. President. I now have the honour of presenting draft resolution 20 C/PLEN/ DR.21 relating to item 18 of the agenda (Role of Unesco in generating a climate of public opinion conducive to the halting of the arms race and the transition to disarmament). As you know, three draft resolutions have been submitted to the plenary of the General Conference under that item, namely 20 C/PLEN/DR.2 sponsored by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic; 20 C/PLEN/DR.6 submitted by Mongolia; and 20 C/PLEN/DR.13 submitted by Yugoslavia, Jamaica and Nigeria, which expresses the views of the non-aligned countries. In addition to these draft resolutions, the Drafting and Negotiation Group also considered the many statements made on this important matter during the general policy ebate.
15.2 After an initial review of this material, it appointed a working party under the chairmanship of Mr. Popovski of Yugoslavia, which, after lengthy and difficult negotiations, succeeded in agreeing to a text which formed the basis of the final recommendation by the Drafting and Negotiation Group. I understand that one of the members of the working party, Mr. Tsien Li-jen of the People's Republic of China, at his own request did not participate in its work. He has informed us that his Government cannot support the view expressed in the resolution before you, and that his delegation will be making to the plenary of the General Conference a statement in clarification of its position.
15.3 As usual, Mr. President, when a consensus is reached it is as a result of concessions made from several sides. Among such concessions, permit me to point out that certain members of the Drafting and Negotiation Group accepted that the specific reference, which appears in one of the original draft resolutions, to neutron weapons as one means of mass destruction, be deleted from the final text. Similarly, certain precise references to the control of disarmament have also been deleted.
15.4 In many cases, formulae which expressed the consensus reached during the Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly devoted to Disarmament have been adopted to express the same
981    consensus within the Drafting and Negotiation Group. A new and important factor concerning Unesco's responsibilities as far as disarmament is concerned is, indeed, the Final Document of that Special Session, which calls upon Unesco to intensify its activities in the presentation of information con- cerning the armaments race and disarmament; to intensify its activities aimed at facilitating research and publications on disarmament, especially in developing countries; and to step up its own programme aimed at the development of disarmament education, inter alia through the preparation of teaching material. Our Organization has thus received a specificmandate ie the United Nations to undertake new and important tasks in this very important and difficult field. This is, of course, no new field of activity for Unesco, but its present efforts are certainly too modest to meet the requirements with which we are now confronted. In its draft resolution, the Drafting and Negotiation Group refers to the Executive Board's decision (105 EX/Decision 7.1.2) on the results of the Special Session, which stresses "the urgent necessity of further extending the work done by Unesco". The Drafting and Negotiation Group also recalls the possible new activities mentioned in the Director-General's report to the Executive Board (105 EX/29 Add.1), in which a number of possible new programme actions are suggested and enumerated. The Drafting and Negotiation Group considers that these suggestions should be borne in mind by the Secretariat when arranging for Unesco's participation in the implemen- tation of the relevant provisions of the Final Document, and expresses its conviction "that Unesco can and must make its own effective contribution to improving the international climate by mobilizing public opinion on behalf of disarmament".
15.5 We are well aware, Mr. President, from decades of fruitless disarmament negotiations and from our experience of the strength of the forces that propel the arms race, that this is no easy task. But I should like to express my personal conviction that things are at a hopeful stage: during the Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly, all nuclear arms States for the first time actively participated; the General Assembly established the special responsibility of the leading nuclear arms States for measures leading to real nuclear disarmament; and a programme of action for international disarmament was agreed upon. This provides a new basis for Unesco's undertakings in favour of the objectives of disarmament.
15.6 Mr. President, a final problem requires the attention of the plenary. Many members of the Drafting and Negotiation Group have noted that draft resolutions 20 C/PLEN/DR.2 and
20 C/PLEN/DR.13 both invited the Director-General to undertake specific activities in follow-up of the decisions of the Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly. Some members feared that such an invitation to the Director-General might, if fully reflected in a resolution of the General Conference and supported by a detailed list of activities, have budgetary implications, calling for expenditures above the budget ceiling agreed upon by the General Conference or leading to some distortion in the programme priorities of the Organization.
15.7 This is a problem with which we are indeed confronted in connection with all the general resolutions handled by the Drafting and Negotiation Group during this General Conference. These resolutions have no direct bearing upon the allocation of the Organization's resources. Mandates to the Director-General concerning the use of financial resources may only be given through the decisions contained in the Approved Programme and Budget. The general resolutions may, however, give the Director-General some additional guidelines on which he may rely when planning the detailed activities of the various sectors and when preparing future programmes. Nevertheless, increased efforts may sometimes be financed through extra-budgetary means, or through co-operation with other international or national institutions, research institutions and others. In inviting the Director-General to consider whether certain new activities or studies may be initiated or encouraged by the Organization in the field of disarmament, we have therefore taken great care to choose a wording which clearly shows that such activities may not be undertaken at the expense of ‘activities decided upon in the Approved Programme and Budget. At the same time, we have, in addition to the suggestions made in the Director-General's report to the Executive Board on the results of the Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly, enumerated several other research, educational and information projects which should be considered when planning an increased Unesco effort towards halting the arms race and paving the way for disarmament.
15.8 As it stands, Mr. President, and taking into account the reservations already expressed by the delegate of the People's Republic of China, I do believe that the present resolution may meet with the consensus of the plenary of the General Conference, as it certainly did in the Drafting and Negotiation Group; in that belief I submit our draft resolution to you for consideration. Thank you, Mr.=President:
16.1 “Le PRESIDENT .= Je remercie le président du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation encore une fois pour la présentation très claire qu'il vient de nous faire du projet de résolution 20 C/PLEN/DR.21.
16.2 Puisqu'il s'agit d'un texte qui a fait l'objet d'un consensus, j'invite la Conférence générale à l'adopter comme elle a adopté les autres projets de résolution sur lesquels le Groupe de rédaction et de négociation est parvenu à un consensus, c'est-à-dire sans vote, étant entendu que les délégations auront la possibilité de formuler leurs réserves ou leurs observations une fois le texte adopté.
16.3 Je donne la parole au délégué du Brésil.
(17) Mr. MAC DOWELL (Brazil)( Translation from the Spanish): Mr. President, I note a discrepancy between the text of draft resolution 20 C/PLEN/DR.21 submitted to us and what appeared to me to have been decided in the Drafting and Negotiation Group. In sub- paragraph (a) of the fourth paragraph of operative part II (page 4 of the original English) there is the word "symposia", whereas my impression is that in the Drafting and Negotiation Group it was made clear that in this case we were not talking of "symposia". Thank you.
18. Le PRESIDENT.- Dois-je comprendre que le délégué du Brésil pose une question au président du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation ? Celui-ci a la parole.
19. Mr. GARBO (Norway), Chairman of the Drafting and Negotiation Group: Thank you, Mr. President. The delegate of Brazil is certainly correct in stating that we had a lengthy discussion on the drafting of the paragraphs listed under "Also invites the Director- General ..." I am sorry if there has been a misunderstanding on the specific point he mentioned, but I do believe that in view of the way which we have phrased the introductory paragraph, there was agreement in the Drafting and Negotiation Group that the subparagraph (a) should read as it does now. Thank you, Mr. President.
20: Le: PRESIDENT. - Cette explication ayant été fournie, je donne la parole au délégué du Japon.
21. Mr. SUGANUMA(Japan): Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me to point out what seems to be an error in the English text of document 20 C/PLEN/DR.21. At the bottom of page 3, there is the phrase "Invites the Director-General ...", followed by subparagraphs (a), (b) and (c). At the top of page 4, there are subparagraphs (d), (e) and (f), followed by the same phrase "Invites the Director-General ... which in its turn is followed by subparagraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d). In each case, subpara- graphs (a), (b) and (c) are identical. I think there is some confusion here.
22 Le PRESIDENT = Je remercie le délégué du Japon et je donne la parole au délégué de 1'Australie.
23. Mr. MOTT (Australia): Mr. President, the distinguished representative of Japan has answered my question, I have nothing further to add. Thank you Mr. President.
24. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le délégué de l'Australie et je donne la parole au président du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation.
25.1 Mr. GARBO (Norway), Chairman of the Drafting and Negotiation Group: Mr. President, the delegate of Japan is right, and I beg you to excuse this error. As you know, Mr. President, I was not prepared to deal with this item this morning, and I had only a very short time in which to prepare my intervention.
25.2 As Mr. Suganuma has correctly pointed out, the English text on pages 3 and 4 reads "Invites the Director-General ...", followed by six subparagraphs numbered (a) to (f). These should be deleted; they are not part of the correct text, whereas the text on page 4, which begins with "Invites the Director-General ...", followed by subparagraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) is the correct one, and should be retained. Thank you, Mr. President.
26.1 Le PRESIDENT.- Merci. Ces corrections étant faites et ces précisions apportées, puis-je, conformément a ce que j'ai dit, considérer que la Conférence générale est disposée à adopter le document 20 C/PLEN/DR.21 par consensus, c'est-à-dire sans vote, étant entendu que tout délégué qui voudrait faire une décla- ration ou formuler des observations au sujet de ce texte en aura la possibilité et que son inter- vention sera reproduite dans le compte rendu in extenso de la séance.
26.2 En l'absence d'objections, je considère que telle est votre décision et je déclare donc le docu- ment 20 C/PLEN/DR.21 adopté par consensus.
26.3 Je donne la parole au délégué de la Mongolie.
27. Mr. WANGCHINDORJ (Mongolia) : Mr. President, I had wished to speak before the adoption of the draft resolution. May I ask whether subparagraph (f), at the top of page 4 is among those which should be deleted?
28. Le PRESIDENT .- Je remercie le délégué de la Mongolie et je donne la parole au Secrétaire.
29. The SECRETARY: Mr. President, with your permission I will explain once more that the first series of subpara- graphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) on pages 3 and 4 of the English text should be deleted because they constitute the original version. The final version, which was negotiated and then agreed to by the Drafting and Negotiation Group, and which was submitted by consensus to the
33 plenary is the text on page 4, which begins with "Invites the Director-General ..." and is followed by subparagraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d). Thank you, Mr. President.
30. Le PRESIDENT .- Je remercie le Secrétaire. Je crois que le président du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation a une déclaration à faire.
31. Mr. GARBO (Norway), Chairman of the Drafting and Negotiation Group: Mr. President, I do apologize. There are some faults, at least in the English version, which I was not fully aware of. Subparagraphs (e) and (f) at the top of page 4 should be retained. I am very sorry that the document before us is not the one we used in the Drafting and Negotiation Group. I believe that the situation will become clear if we delete the text on page 4 which begins with "Invites the Director-General ...", followed by subparagraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d), and retain the preceding six subparagraphs.
32.1 Le PRESIDENT.- Les explications fournies par le président du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation vous satisfont-elles ?
32.2 La Nouvelle-Zélande, les Etats-Unis d'Amérique et la République socialiste soviétique d'Ukraine demandent la parole.
32.3 Je donne d'abord la parole au délégué de la Nouvelle-Zélande.
33. Mr. O'CONNOR (New Zealand): Thank you, Mr. President. As a point of order, is it valid for me to suggest that you declare a2 five-minute adjournment for a reconciliation of the text at the Secretariat level? If it is, Mr. President, I would move this as a point of order.
34.1 Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le délégué de la Nouvelle-Zélande. Pour ma part, je serais favorable a une sus- pension de séance de cinq minutes pour permettre d'y voir plus clair dans le texte.
34.2 Je donne la parole au délégué de la République socialiste soviétique d'Ukraine.
(35) Мг. KRAVETS (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic)(Translation from the Russian): Thank you, Mr. President. In principle I have no objection to a five-minute adjournment to rectify what appears to be a typographical error in the English text of the document. But perhaps it will not be necessary if we can all agree on the following. As I see it, the phrase "Invites the Director-General" occurs twice. In one case, it is followed by six subparagraphs, while, in the other, four paragraphs repeat the selfsame provisions. The Russian text is free of this error. Therefore, the only portion to be deleted from the English version is this first part of the text, i.e. the six paragraphs introduced by "Invites the Director-General". That will remove any element of misunderstanding. Thank you.
36.1 Le PRESIDENT.- Je vais donner la parole au délégué de l'Australie puis au délégué des Etats-Unis. Ensuite je prendrai une décision au sujet de la suspension de séance.
36.2 Le délégué de l'Australie a la parole.
37. Mr. MOTT (Australia): Mr. President, I wonder if we now need a five-minute adjournment. It seems to me we may have reached agreement to delete the first section of the draft resolution which begins with "Invites the Director-General ...", and to retain the second. I notice that that is the manner in which the French text is drafted, and I would assume that if the English text is aligned with the French, we shall have solved our problem. Thank you, Mr. President.
38. Le PRESIDENT.- Je donne la parole au délégué des Etats-Unis d'Amérique.
39. Mr. WARVARIV (United States of America): Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that we do need to suspend the meeting for five or ten minutes, because this matter is very important and we must reconcile the text. I think we shall be well advised to suspend. Thank you, Mr. President.
40.1 Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le délégué des Etats-Unis. Mesdames, Messieurs, je crois utile, a ce point de notre débat, de suspendre la séance pendant cinq minutes, afin de clarifier la situation en ce qui concerne le texte que nous venons d'adopter.
984       i (La séance est suspendue pendant cinq minutes). 33
40.2 Je donne la parole au president du Groupe de redaction et de negociation.
41.1 Mr. GARBO (Norway), Chairman of the Drafting and Negotiation Group: Thank you, Mr. President. May I first confirm that it is only in the English text that there has been some confusion and a certain mixing of paragraphs. All the other language versions are correct.
41.2 The English text, page 3, begins with the phrase "Invites the Member States ...", followed by six subparagraphs, numbered (a) to (f). These should all be retained. The next section, be- ginning with "Invites the Director-General ...", followed by a further six subparagraphs, similarly numbered, should be deleted, because the first four of those subparagraphs are found on page 4, under "Invites the Director-General ...", while subparagraphs (e) and (f) are already included on page 3, under the heading "Invites Member States ...". ;
41.3 May I repeat that what happened in the English text was that certain subparagraphs were inadvertently duplicated, while others were set in the wrong place in the draft resolution as a whole. Thank you, Mr. President.
42.1 Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le président du Groupe de négociation et de rédaction de la mise au point qu'il vient de faire en ce qui concerne le texte de la résolution que la Conférence vient d'adopter par consensus. Je pense que maintenant chacun ici sait exactement à quoi s'en tenir en ce qui concerne la version anglaise ; pour ma part j'ai travaillé avec le texte français, qui coïncide avec le texte anglais tel qu'il vient d'être clarifié.
42.2 Comme je l'ai annoncé, nous allons maintenant entendre les délégations qui voudraient s'expri- mer sur l'une ou l'autre des deux résolutions que nous avons adoptées ce matin.
42.3 Je voudrais cependant, avant cela, remercier en votre nom le président du Groupe de rédac- tion et de négociation du travail qu'il a accompli avec les membres du Groupe et lui souhaiter bonne chance dans la tâche qu'il lui reste encore à mener à bien. Je lui donne la parole.
43. Mr. GARBO (Norway), Chairman of the Drafting and Negotiation Group: Thank you very much, Mr. President. Please excuse us for having done some of our drafting in the middle of the plenary!
44. Le PRESIDENT.- Nous revenons donc au point 14 de l'ordre du jour pour entendre les déclarations des délé- gations qui veulent s'exprimer sur le document 20 C/PLEN/DR.18. Je donne la parole au délégué des Etats-Unis d'Amérique.
45.1 Mr. WARVARIV (United States of America): Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the United States joined in the consensus on this item and we wish to register our appreciation of the generous spirit of give and take that pervaded many meetings of the Drafting and Negotiation Group.
45.2 In particular, Mr. President, we sincerely appreciate the spirit of co-operation demonstrated on the part of the sponsors of the original resolution presented under item 14 of the agenda and of the working group under the leadership of Ambassador Turkson that so greatly facilitated our work at the Drafting and Negotiation Group.
45.3 Nevertheless, Mr. President, we feel that we must explain that although we have joined the consensus, we would have abstained had there been a separate vote on draft resolution 20 C/PLEN/DR.18 Rev.
45.4 Mr. President, we continue to have a particular problem with those passages of the text that advocate implementation of the resolutions of the Sixth Special Session of the General Assembly. As is well known, Mr. President, the United States had serious reservations on some of the resolutions adopted at that session. To the extent that the references in the resolution to a new international economic order can be interpreted to mean the broad evolving concept of achieving a new and more equitable economic order, the United States delegation wishes to reiterate full support for that concept.
45.5 Moreover, Mr. President, we consider that the wording of the paragraphs relating to basic human needs, while considerably improved, deals with this concept in an unnecessarily negative way by posing a question that in our view, Mr. President, does not arise. This is the notion that basic human needs might serve as the sole basis for planning and programming Unesco's action in establish- ing a new international economic order. No such claim, Mr. President, has been made by those who see validity in the general concept of meeting basic human needs. We, in the United States, among others, have always maintained that the basic human needs concept is complementary and contributes to the programmes of development and growth which we all support. Thank you, Mr. President.
46. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le délégué des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et je donne la parole au délégué de la Répu- blique fédérale d'Allemagne.
47.1 Mr. FABRICIUS (Federal Republic of Germany): Mr. President, we joined the consensus in line with our action in the Drafting and Negotiation Group. It must be acknowledged that the Group succeeded in amending a number of points in the original draft 20 C/PLEN/DR.9, where approaches had been too one-sided. Nevertheless, the resolu- tion as it now stands continues to be deficient in several respects and, in my view these require some clarification. My first remark concerns the concept of basic human needs. On this, the wording of the original text proposed has been considerably improved, but in our view, the subject is still inadequately treated.
47.2 In preambular paragraph 8 we read that the concept of basic human needs cannot replace the concrete concepts and principles on which a new international economic order should be built; this in our opinion is wide of the mark. The point is not to replace the idea of a new world economic order by the basic human needs concept, but to add a social dimension to otherwise incomplete development strategies. In paragraph 9 of operative part B also, the basic needs concept is still evaluated in too negative a manner.
47.3 We continue to have reservations about paragraph 1 of operative part A where the implemen- tation of resolutions is mentioned. .It is sufficiently well known that part of the resolutions referred to has not been unreservedly accepted by all. In our view the last phrase of paragraph 1 of operative part A does not see things in their proper perspective. The phrase I refer to reads as follows: "and extending to the economic field the process of the elimination of colonialism, neo-colonialism in all their forms and manifestations”. This wording creates the impression that the existing conditions continue to be primarily shaped by neo-colonialist influences. Put in this manner it does not corres- pond to the facts. These are some examples of the reservations we still have on the text of this resolution: they did not, however, prevent us from joining the consensus. Thank you, Mr. President.
48. Le PRESIDENT. - A Je remercie le délégué de la République fédérale d'Allemagne et je donne la parole au delegue de la Turquie.
49.1 Mr. ISKIT (Turkey): Thank you, Mr. President. On the occasion of adoption by consensus of the resolution before us, my delegation wishes to make certain brief remarks concerning a new international economic order.
49.2 Mr. President, it has now been more than four years since new trends were initiated in inter- national thinking on world economic growth and development, issues central to world peace and prosperity. However, we must recognize with regret that during this period when a new phase opened with the launching of the call for a new international economic order, almost no concrete results were achieved. Neither the present results of international negotiations nor the world economic outlook permit an optimistic assessment of progress towards the establishment of the new international economic order.
49.3 It is true that there are huge obstacles and complex problems standing in the way of the achievement of the goals of the new international economic order: political, economic, social and cultural impediments complicate the issue in developed as well as in developing countries. The attitudes among and within nations are still conditioned by narrow and short-term interests impeding concrete steps towards real change. Mr. President, are we to conclude then that the establishment of the new international order is a pure utopianism, that it is not possible to achieve changes in this direction? Are we to allow ourselves to be overwhelmed by pessimism conducive to "do nothing" attitudes? We are elated, Mr. President, to observe that in this General Conference the prevailing approach to this issue demonstrates that this outlook is not shared by the international community. This is proved by the adoption by consensus of the resolution before us.
49.4 Indeed, ideas always precede action and a gestation period is necessary to translate them into concrete changes in attitudes and into positive performance. Based on the realities of a changing world, the underlying principles of a new international economic order slowly but surely gain universal acceptance. There is already a large consensus on the need for global approaches to the international problems on the reality of interdependence, on the necessity of a better system of international economic relations based on equity, sovereign equality, common interests and co-operation among all States.
49.5 When compared with the way of thinking of only a decade ago, the change in the conceptual approaches to world economic issues, in general, and to development problems, in particular, is tremendous. No policy-maker or scholar can advocate today a return to an anachronistic attitude based on selfish and nearsighted policies. Hence, we believe that the still wide differences of view on ways and means to attain a new international economic order are progressively narrowing and that the time approaches when the common understanding and perception of this important issue will be effectively translated into political will. The way will then be open for the implementation of precise policies in a frame of reference that relates the long-term objectives, technical feasibility and political possibility.
49.6 The forces of history are too strong to be resisted: the direction of change is unmistakable. A new international economic order, however, is not a dogma nor is it foreordained. We have to earn it. A new international economic order being itself a dynamic and complex process, its moulding in the right way requires the concerted efforts of all nations. In these efforts, the increasing awareness of public opinion everywhere is of paramount importance. A real and durable change of
986    power structures and internal policies in the required direction can only be achieved through the conscious support of large segments of the population in the developed as well as in the developing countries. To this end the creation of an intellectual climate and the continuation of the debate at all levels is crucial.
49.7 Mr. President, Turkey, which espouses the cause of creating a more just and equitable inter- national economic and social order, is sincerely desirous of contributing to its realization. Indeed, our Government is committed to rendering more effective Turkey's participation in the furthering of this process. In line with this objective, Turkey is already taking a more active part in all inter- national forums, in particular in United Nations bodies, where negotiations aimed at the shaping of a new international economic order are taking place. As a further initiative to this end, my country had the privilege of hosting an international seminar on a new international economic order held last August in Istanbul. We are proud to state that this seminar brought together a number of dis- tinguished politicians, diplomats and scholars of international stature who are playing an important role in the elaboration of the conceptual as well as the practical framework of the new international economic order. This seminar, which we believe has made a distinct contribution to generating an intellectual climate conducive to the creation of the new international economic order, should also be considered as evidence of the importance my country attaches to developments relating to this issue.
49.8 Mr. President, in view of this approach, it is only too natural that my delegation welcomes all initiatives taken in the framework of Unesco aimed at furthering and promoting efforts to accelerate the process of establishing a new international economic order and to increasing the role played by the Organization in this process. With this consideration in mind, my delegation fully supported the resolution under item 14 of the agenda which has been adopted. Among other dispositions in this resolution, we attach a particular importance to paragraph 7 of operative part B, inviting the Director- General to prepare a critical report to be submitted to the United Nations Special Session in 1980, as well as to paragraph 11 of operative part B, relating to the preparation of a series of studies on Unesco's participation in the establishment of a new international economic order, and especially to the formulation of a new international development strategy. Indeed, these reports and studies may constitute a valuable contribution by this Organization to the ongoing preparations at the international level to elaborate a development strategy and plan of action for the next decade by introducing the necessary social and cultural adjustment guidelines. We consider that these preparations should lead to a truly comprehensive and universal strategy which should serve as an effective instrument for the management of international economic relations at the global level in a world which is becoming more and more interdependent. Thank you, Mr. President.
50. Le PRESIDENT. - Je remercie le délégué de la Turquie et je donne la parole au délégué de la Roumanie.
51.1 M. CONSTANTIN (Roumanie).- Merci, Monsieur le Président. La délégation roumaine voudrait aussi faire quelques commentaires au sujet de la résolution que nous venons d'adopter par consensus, et qui a trait a la contribution de l'Unesco à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international et à l'élimination du sous- développement, l'un des problèmes cruciaux du monde contemporain.
51.2 Je voudrais avant toute chose souligner que la Roumanie attache une importance exceptionnelle à l'intensification sur le plan mondial des efforts visant à liquider le sous-développement et à réaliser un nouvel ordre économique. C'est pourquoi nous considérons qu'il appartient à l'Unesco, par ses programmes dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science, de la culture et de la communication, d'appuyer les efforts des pays en développement visant à accélérer leur progrès économique et social. Certes, la restructuration profonde des rapports économiques internationaux est fortement influencée par les tendances à la domination, par l'existence de zones d'influence et d'intérêt, par les mesures protectionistes et restrictives qui sont prises en matière de commerce international ainsi que par la perpétuation des phénomènes de crise économique et monétaire, lesquels affectent surtout les pays en développement.
51.3 La Roumanie, consciente que l'effort de chaque nation pour mettre en place une économie moderne fondée sur une industrie et une agriculture développées, sur l'accroissement du potentiel scientifique et technologique, est primordial, considère en même temps qu'il est impérieusement né- cessaire d'organiser une large coopération internationale et d'appuyer les efforts que les pays en développement déploient dans tous les domaines. La Roumanie, pour sa part, met en oeuvre d'amples programmes de coopération avec les pays en développement, avec les pays non alignés. Selon nous, l'Unesco peut contribuer dans une mesure encore plus grande à définir et à promouvoir une action destinée à accélérer la croissance économique et la diversification des économies des pays moins développés, surtout en instituant des programmes de formation de cadres et des projets de coopéra- tion ayant pour but d'assurer l'accès direct aux résultats de la science ou de la technologie modernes. La délégation roumaine constate avec satisfaction que l'Unesco contribuera, ainsi qu'il est prévu au paragraphe 7 du dispositif de la résolution, à la préparation de la session spéciale de l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies qui sera consacrée en 1980 au nouvel ordre économique international.
51.4 Selon la conception de la Roumanie, cette session devra aboutir à l'adoption d'une stratégie claire du développement, élaborée avec la participation de tous les Etats et ‘de tous les organismes du système des Nations Unies, une stratégie définissant les principes, les orientations et les mesures concrètes destinées à accélérer la liquidation du sous-développement et la réalisation d'un nouvel ordre économique mondial. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président, en me félicitant du résultat positif de nos discussions en vue de la rédaction du texte que nous venons d'adopter.
52. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le délégué de la Roumanie et je donne la parole au délégué de l'Australie.
53.1 Mr. MOTT (Australia): Mr. President, my delegation regards it as a considerable and most welcome achievement that we in the Conference today have been able to agree by consensus on a resolution regarding Unesco's contribution to the establishment of a new international economic order. For this I think we must pay tribute to the Drafting and Negotiation Group and to its Chairman.
53.2 We, in my delegation, fully support the activity of Unesco within its fields of competence in regard to the establishment of a new international economic order. This is a most important activity and requires the backing of all Member States. To that extent the outcome of our discussions today has been a most positive one.
53.3 At the same time, Mr. President, it would perhaps be surprising if on a subject so wide- ranging and important as this one, delegations had no difficulties whatsoever. In fact, my delegation is among a number that have certain problems with the text as it exists. These were not such as to cause us to stand aside from the consensus, but they do require a brief reflection in our plenary discussion.
53.4 The first concerns the references in preambular paragraph 8, and paragraph 9 of operative part B to the notion of basic human needs which we still find somewhat negative for our purposes. The concept of basic human needs, as we see it, is an integral part of most national development strategies and hence is an important consideration in framing Australia's development assistance programme. We make these remarks not in a critical sense but rather from the point of view of a country which seeks practical means of ensuring that development assistance is effective in raising living standards in developing countries.
53.5 We have a problem also with the final preambular paragraph. Ideally, we would have preferred to have seen this deleted, or at least, to have parts of the wording softened or amended.
53.6 In regard to paragraphs 1-3 of operative part A, in the final version, these are much improved, but they may still raise questions concerning the proper direction of Unesco's resources and the need for consultation between the various international agencies concerned. We hope that these remarks could be taken into account in future action on the implementation of this resolution. Thank you, Mr. President.
54. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le délégué de l'Australie et je donne la parole au délégué des Pays-Bas.
55.1 M. de HOOG (Pays-Bas).- Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais tout d'abord m'associer à ceux qui ont exprimé une opinion positive en ce qui concerne la résolution relative à la contribution de l'Unesco à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international et souligner aussi que ma délégation se félicite que la Conférence ait adopté par consensus un texte portant sur un sujet aussi important.
55.2 Cela dit, Monsieur le Président, j'ai noté que dans sa présentation, le président du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation a signalé que le Groupe avait longuement discuté de la définition de la notion de besoins essentiels de l'homme et que cette notion avait donné lieu au sein même du Groupe à des interprétations très différentes. Comment pourrait-il en être autrement, Monsieur le Président, s'agissant d'un concept aussi important et même fondamental ?
55.3 J'aurais voulu expliquer pourquoi ma délégation estime que dans le texte que nous avons adopté ce matin, ce concept est peut-être interprété d'une façon un peu trop respective, mais je ne voudrais pas répéter ce qui a été dit notamment par les délégués de l'Australie, de la République fédérale d'Allemagne et des Etats-Unis d'Amérique ; je me bornerai à dire que je partage les vues qu'ils ont exprimées. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
56. Le PRESIDENT .- Je remercie le délégué des Pays-Bas et je donne la parole au délégué de l'Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques.
(57.1) Mr. VASKOV (United of Soviet Socialist Republics)(Translation from the Russian): Thank you, Mr. President. The position of the Soviet Union concerning the new international economic order is well known to Unesco's Member States. As delegates will be aware, it is set forth, in essence, in the Soviet Government's United Nations statement of 4 October 1976 "On the reorganization of international economic relations”.
(57.2) In his message of 14 September 1978 to the International Conference of Solidarity with the Struggle of the African and Arab Peoples against Imperialism and Reaction, Comrade L.I. Brezhnev, General Secre- tary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, Chairman of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR, remarked: "Our country staunchly supports the struggle for universal peace and security, the relaxation of international tension, disarmament, the strengthening of the political and economic inde- pendence of the developing countries, and the reorganization of international economic relations on the basis of justice and equality".
(57.3) The Soviet Union resolutely supports the national liberation movements of peoples and the efforts of the developing countries to ensure their independence and bring about progressive social and economic change, it supports their legitimate struggle against imperialism and reaction. On more than one occasion the Soviet Union has given - and will continue to give - concrete evidence of its solidarity with the develop- ing countries in their action to establish a new international economic order and bring about far-reaching social and economic transformations, and in their valiant struggle to defend their revolutionary achievements and the sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of their countries.
(57.4) The Soviet delegation participated in the elaboration, on a consensus basis, of the text of the resolution that has just been adopted by the twentieth session of the General Conference on Unesco's con- tribution to the establishment of a new international economic order; its position is to a certain extent reflected in the text of the resolution as adopted. Thank you.
58. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le délégué de 1'Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques et je donne la parole au délégué du Royaume-Uni.
59. Mr. CARR (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland): Mr. President, we were happy to join in the consensus on this item. The consensus achieved reflects a balance of the various ways of considering these problems on which the positions of Member States are well known. Those positions have been respected. I would add, Mr. President, that we would have preferred to see the last preambular paragraph end after the words "peace and security", since we believe that it is for the United Nations Security Council to decide on what constitutes a threat to international peace and security. Thank you, Mr. President.
60. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le délégué du Royaume-Uni et je donne la parole au dernier orateur inscrit sur ma liste, la déléguée de la Bulgarie.
61.1 Mrs. MILEVA (Bulgaria): Thank you Mr. President. I had the privilege of participating in the work of the Drafting and Negotiation Group, and I believe the text of our resolution on item 14 to be a good and balanced one. While we join in the consensus, I would like, however, to express one reservation here, just a ; did in the Drafting and Negotiation Group, concerning paragraph 9 of operative part B of the raft.
61.2 My delegation's reservation is in respect of the statement in this paragraph that the concept of "basic human needs" is insufficient as a basis for the planning of Unesco's activities. We have difficulty in accepting the word "insufficient", because on previous occasions and more specifically in
105 EX/Decisions 4.4 and 5.1.4 adopted by the Executive Board, a more categoric statement has been made, namely that "the concept of 'basic needs' ... cannot be used as a basis for planning and programming the Organization's action for development”. We believe that this statement of the inade- quacy of the basic human needs concept for Unesco reflects in a more accurate appropriate manner the general attitude towards this issue. With this reservation, my delegation is willing to join in the consensus on the text submitted by the Drafting and Negotiation Group.
61.3 Finally, Mr. President, I would like to acknowledge the importance of adopting such a resol- ution at the twentieth session of the General Conference, and to voice my Government's general satisfaction with and support for the draft. Thank you, Mr. President.
62.1 Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie la déléguée de la Bulgarie. Personne d'autre n'ayant demandé la parole, nous allons entendre maintenant les délégués qui ont des déclarations à faire au sujet de la résolution adoptée par consensus sur le point 18 de l'ordre du jour - Rôle de l'Unesco dans la création d'une opinion publique favorable à l'arrêt de la course aux armements et au passage au désarmement.
62.2 Je donne d'abord la parole à la déléguée de la Chine.
63. Mrs. YANG YUN-YU (China)(Speech delivered in Chinese, English translation based on simul- taneous interpretation): Thank you. Mr. President, with regard to the question of disarmament the head of the Chinese delegation in his speech in the general policy debate has clarified China's position on the disarmament question. I would like to reaffirm that we maintain this position. Thank you, Mr. President.
64. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie la déléguée de la Chine et je donne la parole au délégué du Canada.
65. M. LUSSIER (Canada).- Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. La délégation du Canada s'est ralliée au consensus quelque peu incomplet qui a été réalisé au sein du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation sur le point 18 de l'ordre du jour. Elle l'a fait toutefois avec hésitation, car un texte de cette importance aurait exigé de la part de notre délégation un examen approfondi auquel le calendrier des travaux de la Conférence ne nous a pas permis de procéder. En particulier, il nous a été impossible de sou- mettre le texte du projet de résolution aux services du gouvernement canadien compétents pour les questions de désarmement. Pour cette raison, si le projet de résolution avait été mis au voix, notre délégation n'aurait pas été en mesure de voter en sa faveur. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
66. 2he PRESIDENT. - Je remercie le délégué du Canada et je donne la parole au délégué de la République démocra- tique allemande.
67.1 M. KAMPF (République démocratique allemande).- Merci, Monsieur le Président. Nous nous félicitons du consensus auquel la délégation de la République démocratique allemande s'est associée sans réserve et qui a permis l'adoption de la réso- lution sur le rôle de l'Unesco dans la création d'une opinion publique favorable à l'arrêt de la course aux armements et au passage au désarmement. Je voudrais, à cet égard, exprimer au Groupe de rédaction et de négociation nos remerciements pour les efforts qu'il a menés à bonne fin.
67.2 Convaincus que le désarmement est le problème clé de notre temps, nous attribuons une très grande importance aux stipulations de la résolution en question. Le texte que nous venons d'adopter prouve sans équivoque que, dans le cadre de ses objectifs et de ses moyens spécifiques d'action dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science, de la culture et de l'information, l'Unesco est par- faitement en mesure de donner une impulsion précieuse au mouvement mondial en faveur du désar- mement. La session extraordinaire de l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies consacrée au désarme- ment a d'ailleurs mis clairement en relief cet aspect des choses.
67.3 Nous nous emploierons donc à mettre pleinement en oeuvre la résolution adoptée ce matin et nous sommes prêts à soutenir le Directeur général dans l'exécution des projets concrets qui seront entrepris pour lui donner suite. Je me permets de rappeler dans ce contexte que dans son inter- vention au cours du débat de politique générale, le chef de la délégation de la République démo- cratique allemande a notamment appuyé l'initiative qui consisterait à organiser sous les auspices de l'Unesco un Congrès mondial sur l'éducation en matière de désarmement et a fait savoir, au nom du gouvernement de la République démocratique allemande, que notre pays serait heureux d'accueillir une réunion d'une aussi grande importance. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
68.1 Le PRESIDENT .- Je remercie le délégué de la République démocratique allemande.
68.2 Le délégué de la Mongolie demande la parole.
69.1 Mr. WANGCHINDORJ (Mongolia): Thank you, Mr. President. My delegation wishes to associate itself with the preceding speaker in congratulating the Chairman and members of the Drafting and Negotiation Group on having reached a conclusion on this most important issue. The Mongolian delegation is particularly grateful to the Chairman and members of the Drafting and Negotiation Group for the reflection of an amendment which it submitted in the final draft resolution.
69.2 In accordance with its Constitution, Unesco has played an importantrole in contributing to peace and international security by promoting co-operation among nations through its activities in education, science, culture and communication. To all countries, big and small, and especially the developing countries, the problem of disarmament is so crucially important that the outcome of many vital issues of international importance depends on its solution. My country readily supports any steps aimed at achieving this lofty objective; and it is the intention and policy of the Government of
990    the Mongolian People's Republic to make its modest contribution towards a positive solution of the 33 problem. With this in view, Mongolia has actively participated for several years in the work of the United Nations Committee on Disarmament in Geneva. We strongly believe that Unesco, whose inter- national prestige and popularity are so highly reputed, can and should effectively use its possibilities and its maturity in influencing public opinion in favour of halting the arms race and the transition to disarmament.
69.3 Our draft amendment in this connection was inspired by the sincere desire to promote disarma- ment. We believed that in accordance with the decision taken by the Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly devoted to Disarmament, member countries are enabled and given the opportunity to undertake appropriate activities for fostering disarmament in their respective countries by observing the week beginning on 24 October, the date of the foundation of the United Nations, in promotion of the objectives of disarmament. A few weeks ago, for the first time, the week was accordingly observed at the United Nations and in a number of countries including my own, with appropriate activitiés. Also, governmental and non-governmental organizations, such as the World Peace Council, are actively participating in such important activities.
69.4 We are greatly satisfied with the consensus adoption of this important resolution, and we believe that its implementation will constitute a major contribution to the creation of a climate of public opinion conducive to halting the arms race and transition to disarmament and thus contribute to ensuring peace and security in the world. Thank you, Mr. President.
70. Le PRESIDENT .- Je remercie le délégué de la Mongolie. Puisqu'il n'y a pas d'autres délégations qui souhaitent intervenir, je considère que nous en avons terminé avec l'examen du point 18 de l'ordre du jour. DRAFT AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE V, PARAGRAPH 3, OF THE CONSTITUTION AND CONSEQUENTIAL DRAFT AMENDMENTS TO THE RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE (continued) PROJETS D'AMENDEMENTS A L'ARTICLE V, PARAGRAPHE 3, DE L'ACTE CONSTITUTIF ET PROJETS D'AMENDEMENTS CORRESPONDANTS AU REGLEMENT INTERIEUR DE LA CONFERENCE GENERALE (suite) PROPUESTAS DE MODIFICACION DEL ARTICULO V, PARRAFO 3, DE LA CONSTITUCION Y PROPUESTAS CONSIGUIENTES DE MODIFICACION DEL REGLAMENTO DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL (continuacién) ПРОЕКТЫ ПОПРАВОК К NYHKTY 3 CTATBH V УСТАВА И ПРОЕКТЫ СООТВЕТСТВУЮЩИХ ПОПРАВОК К ПРАВИЛАМ ПРОЦЕДУРЫ ГЕНЕРАЛЬНОЙ КОНФЕРЕНЦИИ /продолжение/ BLE ‎ليدعتلاتاعورشسو rica! Sal! cy DaAEIN on $ DIED CA анна ка oste (eE ) ‎ماعلا 6D detal! MaSL
71.1 Le PRESIDENT. - Nous allons maintenant examiner une question qui concerne les points 25, 26 et 27 de l'ordre du jour. La Conférence générale est saisie a cet égard d'un projet de résolution (20 C/PLEN/DR.20) présenté par le Bureau. Je vous rappelle que le 2 novembre dernier, lorsque nous avons examiné ces points, j'avais indiqué à l'issue du débat que le président inviterait le Bureau à constituer un groupe de travail. Le groupe de travail qu'a constitué le Bureau était composé des représentants de la France, du Ghana, d'Haïti, du Népal, de la Tunisie et de l'Union des républiques socialistes sovié- tiques, et placé sous la présidence du président de la Conférence générale. Ce groupe de travail a été constitué par le Bureau le 7 novembre dernier, à sa septième séance. Il avait pour mandat de déterminer la portée et la méthodologie d'une étude en profondeur de la section A de l'article V de l'Acte constitutif, c'est-à-dire portant sur les questions soulevées le 2 novembre à la seizième séance plénière au sujet des amendements rappelés dans le deuxième considérant du projet de résolution
71.2 Le groupe de travail, après trois réunions au cours desquelles il a procédé à un large échange de vues, très franc et très ouvert, a soumis au Bureau à sa onzième séance une recommandation destinée à l'approbation de la Conférence générale. C'est ce texte qui est sous vos yeux ; il a été adopté à l'unanimité par le Bureau, après amendement du dispositif, et vous est aujourd'hui soumis pour approbation.
71.3 Je tiens à attirer votre attention sur deux points : il est indiqué dans le document qu'il sera procédé à une étude d'ici la vingt et unième session de la Conférence générale et qu'elle sera effec- tuée par le Directeur général en étroite collaboration avec le Conseil exécutif et en consultation avec les Etats membres.
33 71.4 Etant donné que le Bureau recommande a l'unanimité à la Conférence générale d'adopter ce texte, je vous suggere d'adopter le projet de résolution 20 C/PLEN/DR.20 par acclamation. (Applaudissements)
71.5 La résolution est adoptée.
71.6 La séance est levée. The meeting rose at 12.20 p.m. La séance est levée à 12 h.20 Se levanta la sesión a las 12.20 Заседание закрываетсяв 12.20 lb.9ةرشعةيناثلاةعاسلاىفةسلجلاتدعفر GEN y‏