Ninth plenary meeting
28 October 1978 at 10.710"a. m. President: Mr, AGBLEMAGNON (Togo) later: Mr. LEBLANC (Canada) Neuvième séance plénière
1. Le PRESIDENT. - Mesdames, Messieurs, la neuvième séance plénière est ouverte. Je donne la parole a S. Exc. M. Juan Manuel, ministre de 1'éducation et de la culture et chef de la délégation des Philippines.
2.1 Mr. MANUEL (Philippines): Mr. President, allow me to preface this brief statement with the congratulations of the Philippine delegation on the election of Mr. LeBlanc to the presidency of the twentieth session of the General Conference of Unesco. His election augurs well for this assembly. The quality of his leadership is widely recognized and appreciated, and under his direction and guidance this Conference is assured of stability and truly significant accomplishments.
2.2 I would also like to congratulate the Director-General and his staff on the excellent work accom- plished in the preparation of the comprehensive, very well organized document 20 C/5 embodying the Draft Programme and Budget. We are gratified to learn of the introduction of new features in the structure of the document, which will considerably facilitate the identification of priority areas for discussion by the Conference. I refer specifically to the new style of presentation whereby each chapter is introduced by a proposed general resolution, where expected results are indicated, and specific resolutions and activities suggested for each objective and theme. We find many of the proposals both stimulating and creative.
2.3 We meet once more to discuss Unesco's action during the next few years. We find in the draft programme proposals for activities in the areas of human rights and international understanding, democratization of access to education, integrated rural development, environment and human settle- ments, improvement of vocational and technical education and the use of technology, and research in the social sciences on peace and human development, giving emphasis to the establishment of a new international economic order. In a sense many of these issues are not new. Some of these are problems we have been grappling with for years. There is need,however, for their continual reinterpretation in the context of current situations. Recent developments in the various areas of human enterprise, for example, call for a restatement of the concepts, axioms and principles that have guided our decisions and our actions in the past.
2.4 As far as human rights are concerned, the Philippine delegation supports the programmes proposed in document 20 C/5. In particular, we endorse the proposals for a study of social indicators of the observance and achievement of human rights (paragraph 3030), and for the identification of the new human rights: "the rights of solidarity”, which include the right to development, the right to peace, the right to a healthy and balanced environment, and the right of all to benefit from mankind's common heritage (paragraph 3028).
2.5 I say this because it is precisely this larger concept of human rights that has been the main- spring of the massive reform programme in the Philippines: the restructuring of Philippine society "dedicated to the attainment of a true dignity and freedom of our people under a rule of law".
2.6 "The challenge of human rights", the President of the Philippines has said, "requires us, not only to promote and protect the fundamental values of civility and conscience, but also to promote and expand the larger freedom of man in society." That is why the reform programmes in the Philippines are designed to raise our underprivileged masses to the level of self-reliance and dignity. We seek to achieve this through such measures as agrarian reform, labour reform, increased social services and a policy of more equitable diffusion of the benefits of progress.
2.7 1 also attach importance to the definition of communal rights or rights of solidarity, because this could well serve as the moral basis for decisions of nations with the aim of mitigating international inequalities and ensuring true harmony and peace. While on the subject of of inequalities, let me refer to the proposals for democratization of access to education, and the activities outlined in para- graphs 1206-1214 of document 20 C/5. In the Philippines, we have high enrolment ratios in all levels. We are aware, however, that the less privileged, mostly those from the rural areas, do not, in fact, fully share the benefits and the opportunities for education beyond the primary level. We have instituted a number of programmes, like the village or barrio self-help high school which has enabled hundreds of thousands of youths to gain secondary, general or vocational education. We have a programme of assistance for needy and deserving students who sincerely desire a college education, known as "the study now and pay later plan". The assistance is in the form of loans to be paid after the student has graduated and has been enrolled.
2.8 We have expanded the State's scholarship programme for tertiary education to give larger benefits to cultural or ethnic communities, and we have initiated a massive retrieval programme through non-formal education. Indeed, we are perhaps the first country to have in its Ministry of Education a Deputy Minister specifically responsible for non-formal education. This is because the political leadership in our country recognizes the value and potential of such education to help the vast numbers of out-of-school youth. Non-formal education centres established throughout the country provide not only skills training but also continuing education, so that those who wish to rejoin the mainstream of education can do so.
2.9 As far as the status of women is concerned, I am happy to state that in our country there is no discrimination against women in education. In fact, more girls are enrolled in certain courses, while the teaching profession itself is dominated by women. Indicative of the vast opportunities which women enjoy is the fact that they occupy high positions in the government as well as the private sector. I might mention here that our country has already provided two women members of the Executive Board of Unesco. These examples reveal our support for any measures designed to combat discrimination against women.
2.10 Our stand is similar as far as programmes for children are concerned. Concerning observance of the International Year of the Child in 1979, which will be celebrated on the eve of the Third United Nations Development Decade, the President of the Philippines has personally directed a com- prehensive, integrated national plan of action for the development of children during the next decade. Moreover, we in the Philippines are observing the Decade of the Filipino Child, which the President inaugurated in 1977. The basic objective of this ten-year plan is to transform the status of the Filipino children through the institution of an integrated system of nutrition, health and medical services, and through cultural and intellectual development.
2.11 May I now consider the link between education and the world of work. This is a theme that recurs in various parts of Unesco's programme, in the chapters dealing with education, natural sciences and technology, and the social sciences.
2.12 We recognize the value of planning education in relation to the world of work, and have in fact adopted curricular reforms, which include, for example, the introduction of work education starting at the primary level and continuing through the secondary level.
2.13 In this connection, Mr. President, I would like to call attention to paragraph 1376 of document
20 C/5 where, under the heading of Unesco's contribution to the development of national capacity for working out educational content, mention is made of a comprehensive study on the promotion of moral values in the content of curricula and in school activities. Such activities, designed to encourage reflection on the ethical aspects of education and to improve the preparation of young people for working life, should be pursued as matters of urgency.
2.14 The proposed programme also refers to the practical application of the social sciences in order to elucidate major problems confronting mankind as a whole, such as those relating to human rights and peace, to man as a centre of development, to the quality of life, to human settlements, to inter- action between man and his environment; and to the social application of scientific and technological advances with a view to evolving constructive responses to those problems in a spirit of concern for human values. The activities in this regard should be pursued with urgency.
2.15 We are pleased that new interest is being taken in and emphasis placed on the social sciences, 9 particularly in their relation to the promotion of moral values and to the ethical aspects of education. Undeniably, there is an urgent need for the social sciences to catch up with the physical sciences; the great advances that have been made in science and technology have not been matched in the field of social and human relationships; nor has modern technology, which far surpasses man's dreams of a few decades ago, provided us with the strength and wisdom needed to manage the social forces that shape our lives.
2.16 This is why we are faced with so many problems related to the environment and ecological balance, to the deterioration of cities, to burgeoning populations and dwindling food resources, and with questions of stability and security. In the Philippines, as in many other countries, we have adopted measures in response to these problems. In fact, we have just established a new Ministry of Human Settlements, headed by the wife of our President, Mrs. Imelda Romualdez Marcos, who is noted for her concern for the ideal of a better life. The objective of the human settlements pro- gramme in the Philippines is to satisfy, for all its people, the basic requirements of human settle- ment, which include: water, power, food, clothing, livelihood, medical services, education, culture and technology, ecological balance, sports and recreation, housing and land use, and mobility through a network of transportation and communication systems. This programme, which is essen- tially humanistic in approach, "hopes to build on the resources, both human and material, of every given settlement, to enable it to achieve development and progress with its own distinctive identity and character".
2.17 The need for timely action to arrest the deterioration of our environment, and to ease explo- sive social situations, underlines the importance and value that must be given to the social sciences. In this connection, we look to Unesco for leadership, particularly with regard to the creation of a mechanism whereby the knowledge and wisdom of social scientists and humanists throughout the international community may be brought to bear on social affairs. We have witnessed the tolerance, unselfishness and co-operation that exist among natural and physical scientists of the world as they work together to ease the suffering of mankind, through medicine, for example. Why should such co-operation not be possible in the social sciences, with the aim of easing the various tensions that now threaten mankind?
2.18 One final point that I would like to touch on concerns the quest for a new international economic order, in which Unesco is expected to participate in its own spheres of competence. In February
1976, at the UNCTAD preparatory meeting of the group of 77 in Manila, our President, Ferdinand E. Marcos, underscored the disparity of wealth among nations. Pointing out that 70 per cent of the world's population were living in poverty, some of them below the poverty line, he observed that 20 to 30 per cent, representing the developed nations, consumed 70 per cent of the world's resources. Unless steps were taken to regulate consumption and to conserve natural resources, he said, "human life might be reduced to the level of bare subsistence in only two generations". Unless international inequalities were mitigated, the world would continue to move swiftly towards an abyss where last- minute measures of self-defence might prove too late.
2.19 What the developing countries needed, said President Marcos, was a covenant among the rich countries to provide grants and loans and other forms of assistance, as well as a reordering of trade policies that would permit the poor to improve their relations with the rest of mankind.
2.20 Moreover, he continued, the industrialized countries, and the former colonizing powers in particular, "must not only now recognize but also support the effort of the new nations to create their own political institutions, even if this process of creation brings them away from the institu- tions in which they first trained for nationhood with their former colonizers".
2.21 Such a new political perception, if it continued, was - said President Marcos - important, because the ultimate decision to grant egalitarian status to the world's poor would depend in great measure on the political will of rich and poor nations alike. "The rich and poor nations" he said, "will need to create a harmony of political will. The rich nations, above all, must decide for them- selves what the sharing of their wealth with poor nations must ultimately mean for them. Power itself cannot be indefinitely monopolized; it should be progressively shared among nations if we are to inhabit a tranquil and orderly world. This is what we visualize when we speak of the new inter- national economic order."
2.22 Your excellencies, my friends: echoing the voice of our President, I appeal for more affirm- ative and responsible reactions to the critical demands of our times, particularly on the part of those whose decisions determine to such a great extent the course of world events. I trust that they will come to realize that only when they share their resources and exercise their power to respond to the economic agony of the poor nations, will they truly add to their own internal strength; that only when they reach out their hand to raise submerged peoples towards their own level, will they really add to their own stature; I trust that they will realize that survival now depends on mutually support- ing interaction between the rich nations and the poor, between the industrialized and the developing countries. I have faith that those who occupy positions of political and economic leadership today will demonstrate moral leadership as well, so that ours will be a new world system, based on morality and justice, and one which ensures for all a feeling of security and hope for a new tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. President.
3. Le PRESIDENT.- N у Je remercie le chef de la délégation des Philippines et je donne la parole à S. Exc. M. Kalevi Kivistô, ministre de l'éducation et chef de la délégation de la Finlande.
4.1 Mr. KIVISTO (Finland): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen: the agenda of our session indicates that we have impor- tant and even difficult problems to deal with during the coming weeks. This is only natural, because Unesco has been entrusted by its Constitution to contribute to the solution of major world problems, above all the maintenance of international peace and security. Our commitment to Unesco has been and should continue to be based on the fact that international co-operation in education, science, culture and communication, the satisfaction of mutual interest and respect for the sovereign equality of nations are vital to the strengthening of peace and understanding among peoples, as well as to the spiritual enrichment of the human personality.
4.2 The most interesting items of our agenda relate to the Draft Programme and Budget for
1979-1980 (20 C/5) and the Draft Adjustments to the Medium-Term Plan for 1977-1982 (20 C/4). These documents remind us that Unesco's fields of competence are among the most extensive and varied in the United Nations system, a fact which may lead to complications in the management and planning of the activities of our Organization. In this connection, it has been asked whether Unesco's programme is not too diverse, and whether there might not be a need to concentrate its activities on the most essential world problems. This discussion on concentration should not, how- ever, be understood as a tendency to restrict the development of the Organization's functions. The Government of Finland supports any progress whereby Unesco can devote its activities to the global concerns of mankind, through the promotion of peace and security, respect for human rights and socio-economic development.
4.3 Within the context of these main concerns the Recommendation Concerning Education for Interna- tional Understanding, Co-operation and Peace and Education Relating to Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms provides an excellent guideline for all the educational activities of the Organization. The Finnish Government wholeheartedly supports the efforts of the Director-General to strengthen the implementation of this Recommendation and to promote co-operation and co-ordination within the Education Sector, so that all the programmes related, for example, to educational policies, educational content, methods and techniques, adult education and the training of educational personnel will duly reflect its principles. Co-ordination with other sectors is also very important so that all the subject fields of the Recommendation may be equally reflected in higher education.
4.4 My Government would also like to single out as worthy of particular support the efforts of the Director-General to strengthen international co-operation in the field of peace research in the manner reflected in the Medium-Term Plan, which states that peace research must be interdisciplinary, systematic and practical, and provide a basis for action. Here Unesco constitutes a focal point for the United Nations system in general, and especially for professional and scientific bodies.
4.5 The Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly devoted to Disarmament made progress in that direction. Its Final Document calls upon this session of the General Conference to review the Draft Programme and Budget and to increase both the human and financial resources of Unesco for the organization of research and other relevant activities related to disarmament and the creation of a favourable international public opinion towards disarmament. We consider the prepara- tion and follow-up of the International Conference on Disarmament Education to be very important. We also believe that investigation of the role of military research in scientific communities, and its effects on their structures, would enhance our understanding of the arms race and the disarmament process, and would fall within the competence of Unesco.
4.6 Mr. President, if lasting peace cannot be achieved without equitable development, development requires peaceful international relations. In this respect, the principles of the new international economic order have given Unesco a new dimension. In recent years, Unesco has indeed endeavoured to promote infrastructures of education, science, culture and communication in the developing countries. But the Organization also has great potential for implementing the principles of the new international economic order in its fields of competence, through the promotion of models of international co-operation based on this new order.
4.7 In this connection, we should take particular account of the unique role of Unesco as an interna- tional forum for intellectual exchanges, and as a forum not only for operative but also for normative action. In so far as the activities of the Organization are directed towards the generation and promotion of ideas, objectives, and models, its final contribution to international development may, indeed, be manifold in comparison with what can be achieved through single development projects.
4.8 One immediate task for Unesco is to encourage international action to check those tendencies which, particularly in the industrialized countries, appear to be leading to stagnation or even to a reduction of the share of the collective wealth that is invested in education, science and culture. Unfortunately, there has not been enough understanding of the vital role of these "soft" sectors of national economies in the overall cause of socio-economic development; they have consequently been among the first to be considered for a sacrifice under conditions of economic recession.
4.9 The preparations for the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development (UNCSTD), to be held next year, carries a special challenge for Unesco, which is the Specialized Agency within the United Nations system that acts as a forum for international co-operation in the fields of science policy, research and scientific education. Unesco's contribution to UNCSTD has been taken into account in various respects during the preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1979-1980. The Government of Finland wishes to emphasize the importance of effective co-ordination of these preparations, and to support the efforts of the Director-General to increase
410     the resources that Unesco will require for implementation of any decisions adopted by UNCSTD. If this Conference is successful, it may well imply a remarkable forward step in the implementation of the principles of the new international economic order as far as science and technology are concerned.
4.10 Mr. President, culture and communication form an integral part of the general development of societies and the international community. Strengthening the cultural elements of development is also a remarkable task for Unesco. The principles of cultural development, cultural identity, the right to culture, the democratization of culture and the duties of public authorities to develop cultural policy have all been widely discussed. The preparations for the World Conference on Cultural Policies, scheduled for 1981-1982, will be of central importance and could involve a review of the enormous progress which, within a relatively short period of time, has led from the elaboration of the first notion of cultural policy to the widening of the concept of cultural development and to the fruitful implementation of these ideas.
4.11 One matter which has only recently been recognized as a legitimate part of cultural policies concerns the so-called "cultural industries". We have not attached adequate attention to the new circumstances created by the rapid growth of industrially produced culture. Public cultural policy and cultural administration are largely concerned with issues related to traditional art forms and institutions - which are important as such - but they seem little worried about new problems caused by industrially produced mass culture. It is important to bear in mind that industrially produced culture, emanating as it does to such a remarkable extent from big multinational companies, is an international phenomenon. We therefore believe that it is particularly important for international organizations concerned with international cultural co-operation to address themselves to questions related to these industrially produced cultures; during the implementation of cultural policies over the next few years, particular attention should be accorded to these questions.
4.12 Small countries like Finland face a further problem when they endeavour on the one hand to ensure the domestic production of high-standard cultural supplies, films, recording, periodicals, and so on, and on the other hand to promote and balance their international exchange of high-level cultural products. The problem here is not, in the first instance, related to the media as such, but to the way in which the media are used. As far as the development of international communication is concerned, my Government supports the efforts by the Director-General to create a new international order designed to secure equality between peoples and nations in the field of information; it wishes to stress the fact that this particular new order is not only an action programme for the correction of imbalances of a technical nature, but also and above all a programme of principle, intended to create mass media structures and policies which would provide the public with accurate information about objective realities, at the national and international levels alike.
4.13 The mass media, which have a vital role in the strengthening of peace and international under- standing, through the creation of what the President of Finland has called a better "balance of payments in communication", also have a very important critical function in society - as my Norwegian colleague remarked yesterday. In order to be able to provide information based on facts about reality, and to fulfil this critical function, they must have freedom of expression.
4.14 These thoughts lead me to the problems related to the present Draft Declaration on the funda- mental principles governing the contribution of the mass media, the text of which is contained in document 20 C/20. The preparation of this text has indeed not been easy, and it will be necessary to consider the matter further before a generally acceptable solution can be found. Here, too, professional organizations of journalists may have a valuable contribution to make.
4.15 Mr. President, the Nordic Governments, including my own, consider the concrete measures for the endogenous development of mass media structures to be important. Thus we have agreed with Unesco on co-operation within the framework of the funds-in-trust arrangements related to regional development programmes as far as communication in Africa is concerned.
4.16 Mr. President, Unesco's activities reflect international political developments. The Follow-Up Conference to the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe (CSCE), held in Belgrade, emphasized the importance of CSCE as a continuous process in promoting détente in Europe. As the Follow-Up Conference was still in progress during the preparation of Unesco's Draft Programme and Budget, no new projects in that connection were included in document 20 C/5, but the CSCE process is an ongoing one, and we should give attention to the strengthening of European co-operation within the framework of Unesco as well. On the other hand, we should bear in mind that before the signing of the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference, Unesco was already an important forum for European co-operation in the fields of education, science and culture. For example, the programme of periodical European conferences of ministers in the various fields of the Organization's competence has provided an important framework for the exchange of opinions and information and the definition of policies. In order to ensure the continuous development of co-operation, the implementation of the recommendations adopted by these conferences should be carefully analysed as the basis for the discussion of new objectives. Thus, an investigation of the implementation of the recommendations adopted by the Intergovernmental Conference on Cultural Policies in Europe (Helsinki, 1972) would be particularly apposite, would also serve the purposes of the preliminary preparations for the World Conference.
4.17 Mr. President, I have reviewed some of the major sectors of Unesco's Draft Programme and Budget for 1979-1980. Participation by Member States in the planning of the programme has been widely discussed within Unesco itself, and was a major topic of discussion at the Seventh Regional Conference of National Commissions for Unesco for the European Region held in Helsinki last year.
411    On the basis of this, too, we would like to support all the Director-General's efforts to increase the participation of Member States and National Commissions during the planning phase of preparations for the Organization's future programme. We consider the preparation of Unesco's second Medium- Term Plan to be a very important matter, and that its objectives should be duly reflected in the first biennial programme for its implementation. The Medium-Term Plan should therefore be adopted before the final drafting of the Draft Programme and Budget, as was decided in Commission V.
4.18 The Government of Finland also supports the Director-General's efforts to develop the pro- gramme and its structure in a more problem-oriented direction. We anticipate with great interest the forthcoming programme which will certainly be - in accordance with the present development trend - more intersectoral and increasingly problem-oriented.
4.19 While such an approach is inevitable if Unesco is to deal with the contemporary challenge, it is certainly not an easy one. The nature of the issues involved will lead to conflicting interests and even controversies, and thus give rise to what has been called the "politicization" of Unesco. This should not, however, prevent us from dealing with controversial problems caused by the fact that education, science, culture and communication are by no means neutral or technical in nature. But we should have the patience to conduct a careful negotiation process, so that these problems may be resolved in a spirit of mutual understanding and respect, and with a sincere intention to achieve consensus.
4.20 All this should not, however, mean that Unesco will be transformed into a platform for power- politics, or that it will create compromises at the expense of intellectual honesty and clarity. Serious, analytical and scientific penetration to the roots of the problems involved is increasingly required. Unesco will make a great contribution to the promotion of international intellectual exchange if it has the courage to disclose, in an objective fashion, the structures and processes, and this can help us in understanding the true nature of global problems. Thank you, Mr. President.
5. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Finlande et je donne la parole a S. Exc. M. Datuk Musa Hitam, chef de la délégation de la Malaisie.
6.1 Mr. HITAM (Malaysia): Mr. President, may I first of all, as head of the Malaysian delegation, associate myself with the warm congratulations tendered to Mr. LeBlanc on his unanimous election.
6.2 That the present Conference represents a significant milestone in the history of our Organ- ization, few of us can doubt. Let me therefore, at the outset, pay tribute to all those who have dedicated themselves to its preparation. May I commend especially the Director-General who has, on his own initiative, introduced so many innovations, not only within the framework of decisions and policies determined by past General Conferences, but also in the context of Unesco's principal concern with moulding the hearts and minds of our peoples in the continuing search for peace and equity.
6.3 Malaysia, as a developing country, is well aware of the crucial importance of the search for peace. Our regional group of South-East Asian countries has therefore tried in its modest way to contribute towards the concept of a zone of peace, freedom and neutrality in the interest of stability in our part of the world.
6.4 Of great interest to us, too, Mr. President, are our continuing efforts to establish the new international economic order, an exercise of growing complexity. Here, Malaysia's clear stand is reflected in our active participation in various international forums. Let me reaffirm our conviction that the new international economic order represents the aspiration of the peoples of the developing world, especially as far as a more equitable and just distribution of wealth is concerned. Since education is the key to development, it would be too much to expect that Unesco, as a grouping of the world's nations, could be insulated from an issue of such overriding concern.
6.5 I should like to suggest that while recognizing that differences exist, we should also face up to our responsibilities by action on high-priority tasks with universal application, so ably and clearly defined by Unesco. This search for convergence is not easy, but let me suggest that many of the traditions of our developing countries already provide for such a meeting of minds. In our region, for example, the doctrine of mesyuarah, which simply means the putting into practice of the spirit of give and take, is well established. In South-East Asia, this practice seems now to enable us to put aside our differences in the greater interest of the peoples of the region as a whole. Similarly, within the context of our own multiracial society in Malaysia, this same spirit is enabling us to move forward on the economic and social fronts. I am quite certain that this basic doctrine of mesyuarah will enable us to achieve a reasonable measure of agreement in our deliberations in this assembly.
6.6 Mr. President, may I now briefly comment on the Draft Programme and Budget for 1979-1980. I should like to make special mention of the tremendous effort put into the identification of themes and objectives and their relation to performance evaluation, particularly as we are all aware that such a systems approach can as easily ensnare the unwary as it can confound the wise. But I must say that on balance it is a step in the right direction, and it appears the more so now, as we must begin to count the cost; for fluctuating exchange rates and delayed financial contributions are taking their toll, and naturally are impairing the working efficiency of our Organization. Therefore, it is to be hoped that, to the greatest degree possible, the Director-General will soon be rid of such housekeeping worries and relieved of the need to borrow money on the commercial market to meet shortfalls. Such distractions cannot but interfere with his capacity for creative effort in the plan- ning and direction of professional policy and programme.
6.7 At this point, I hope you will allow me, Mr. President, to attempt a broad overall assessment. What do we, and what can we reasonably expect of Unesco in carrying out the directives of the General Conference? And surely it is also relevant to ask, what does the Organization itself expect of its Member States?
6.8 While accepting that member countries at various levels of development will have different con- cepts and priorities, it is surely possible to identify broad areas of agreement. The founding fathers of Unesco had, perhaps, a simpler task because they lived then in a world newly united after the Second World War, whereas, nowadays, suspicion and mistrust seem once again to be poisoning our minds. The nations of the world were sufficiently concerned about pollution to set up a United Nations Environment Programme, but far more insiduous poisons, in the form of apartheid and the denial of human rights, for example, are still only the concern of ad hoc commissions. Who can doubt therefore that the glowing ideal of lasting peace in an equitable world, so confidently expressed thirty-odd years ago when Unesco was launched to herald a new era, are even more relevant and necessary in a world which currently spends millions on armaments, some of which, even now, are being put to destructive use by warring nations; in a world of continuing, and indeed worsening, economic inequities?
6.9 It seems clear to me, therefore, that in addressing itself to all these esentially moral questions of our times, Unesco has a unique opportunity to speak as the world's conscience. In all the tasks that it undertakes within its various fields of competence, Unesco's concern with humanizing, in fact, civilizing, our materialistic approach to the solution of the world's problems must be kept to the fore. Thus, in applying itself to the more visible and tangible aspects, may I stress that Unesco must look to our spiritual welfare as well. As Ministers of Education, Youth or Culture, we must continuously be aware that the spiritual and the material needs of our societies are intertwined. It is with this in mind, Mr. President, that we applaud the idea of observing on a fitting scale the
1,400th anniversary in 1980 of the Hegira of the Holy Prophet Muhammad.
6.10 The problem of the young educated unemployed, which is slowly but surely emerging in my own country, is now a pressing and urgent one, not merely for the developing but also for many of the developed countries. Allied to this problem are those of drug addiction, the alienation of the family and other symptoms of what is generally called "the generation gap".
6.11 May I humbly submit, Mr. President, that in spiritual truths no less than in the stronger ties of clan and family, we developing countries in Asia may have a rich tradition to offer to the world, something in fair exchange, perhaps, for the material blessings we have received from the West. Unesco has thus a central position as a vast store and clearing-house for our common heritage, whether it be the restoration of a cherished cultural monument, or the dissemination of the latest information on earthquake risks, or the leavening of educational systems through regular and participation programmes and projects, which serve as catalysts to stimulate our own national growth and development.
6.12 My Government has given consistent support to the ideals and aspirations of Unesco, and we would like to think, therefore, that we have co-operated to the fullest extent possible in its activities. For example, we take pride in having helped to initiate the Malay Culture Project in the sixties, which seems to have served as a model for a series of other regional cultural projects around the world. We were also happy and privileged to host recently a much-needed seminar on Education on Use of Drugs in our region. This year also saw the publication of the Unesco Courier in our national language, Bahasa Malaysia. The Intergovernmental Conference on Communication Policies in Asia and Oceania is scheduled for February next year, and in Kuala Lumpur we are very much looking forward to acting as hosts. Regional initiatives such as the Asia-Pacific Institute of Broadcasting Development, based in Kuala Lumpur, and participation in the International Campaign to Safeguard the Temple of Borobudur are additional evidence of the seriousness with which we play our role.
6.13 Malaysia is a founder member of SEAMEO, the Southeast Asian Ministers of Education Organ- ization. Here, too, we are glad to be associated with related Unesco ventures in our region for the existing infrastructure of SEAMEO country centres, e.g. the Regional Centre for Education in Science and Mathematics in Malaysia, providing specialist staff and conference facilities which lend themselves rather conveniently to programmes of international co-operation.
6.14 And now, Mr. President, I come to the second point: what does Unesco expect of its Member States? First of all, there is the obvious question of financial contributions which as we all know are apportioned according to the scale established by the United Nations. Here we touch on a sensitive point and, as a small country, with therefore a relatively minor budgetary assessment, I must admit to some diffidence in making my plea for a more liberal view of our financial investment in Unesco. Much has been made of the growing biennial budget, and too little has been said of the very real achievements which have in a large measure benefited the developing world. It is indeed true enough that the developed countries are bearing more than their share of the financial burden. However, it cannot be denied that democratic practice assumes that rich and poor have the same stake, and the same right to be heard, irrespective of the taxes they pay. The need to speak up is particularly important in these days of massive world expenditure on armaments, for example, while many of the basic human needs remain unfulfilled. To prick our conscience a little bit, let us remind ourselves again that world military spending now totals over 1,000 million dollars a day, or roughly about a million dollars a minute, compared to Unesco's biennial budget of around 275 million dollars. Meanwhile about 250 million children in the world do not go to school; water-borne disease Kills
25,000 people every day; and 570 million are officially undernourished.
6.15 Against this background of social maladjustment on such an appalling scale, it is only right and fitting that our voices be heard. Unesco has therefore the right to expect that its members maintain its credibility in translating its noble ideals, which after all are our ideals as well, into action on our behalf. For this to be possible, a viable growth rate must be sustained in the context of inflationary trends and increasing commitments.
6.16 Mr. President, we applaud the proposal to increase the allocation for the Programme of Partici- pation in the activities of Member States, and coupled with that, a move towards strengthening the operative capacity of Unesco National Commissions. For many of our developing countries, this is often the weakest link in the chain of operation, and perhaps the time has come to accept the fact that purely national resources may not be enough to provide the necessary home base to support Unesco's increasing responsibilities. In other words, Unesco's growth rate must be matched with a similar expansion of National Commission potential, if the spirit of true international co-operation and development is to be translated into concrete action.
6.17 To conclude on that note, Mr. President, let us all not only cherish the hope, but also bend all our energies towards achieving the goals that we ourselves have set for this Organization, in order that it may become a truly effective instrument for forging a better and more equitable world, where all nations may live in mutual respect and harmony, and grow in prosperity together now and in the future. Thank you.
7. Le PRESIDENT.- Je' remercie le chef de la délégation de la Malaisie. Je donne la parole á S. Exc. M. Ragnar Arnalds, ministre de l'éducation et chef de la délégation de l'Islande.
8.1 Mr. ARNALDS (Iceland): Mr. President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen: I would like, first of all, on behalf of the Icelandic delegation and through you, to congratulate Mr. LeBlanc on his election to the high office of President of the General Conference.
8.2 In my statement I will discuss some significant themes of the Draft Programme and Budget for
1979-1980 and the Draft Adjustments to the Medium-Term Plan (1977-1982). Before doing so, however, I would like to express my gratitude to the Director-General and his staff for their arduous and imaginative work in preparing these documents, as well as the extensive consultations with Member States and international non-governmental organizations that the Director-General has conducted during the preparatory phase.
8.3 With respect to the Education Sector, Mr. President, my delegation attaches great importance to the struggle against illiteracy. The right to learn reading and writing is an indispensable elemen- tary basis of the universal right to education. While the respective national governments and local authorities remain the chief executive agencies for enabling people to make use of this basic right in practice, international organizations still have an important role to play as sources of knowledge, skills, materials and funds. It is evident from its very title that the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization has an important role to play in this respect. The intensifica- tion of the struggle against illiteracy is therefore our constant duty. And as to the highly desirable concentration of the programme of our Organization, which we keep striving for with some difficulty, it is worth stressing that the struggle against illiteracy is and should remain one of the main objec- tives of our programme.
8.4 Adult education is another objective of the education programme the importance of which has been stressed by the Icelandic delegation at previous sessions of the General Conference. That policy is hereby reiterated. Dynamic, multipurpose and flexible adult education is indeed a key factor in ensuring equality between the generations as far as education is concerned. To many people it will give an opportunity with a truly liberating potential. In view of the obvious import- ance of this objective, it is indeed to be regretted that adequate funds have not been provided for its attainment, and I hope that practical steps will be taken to remedy this shortcoming in our pro- gramme in the near future.
8.5 As far as educational structures are concerned, my Government attaches particular importance to the establishment of a closer relationship between formal and non-formal education, to the rein- forcement of the links between school and the employment world, and to the improvement of proce- dures for transfer between levels and types of education, all of which are proposed in the resolution in paragraph 1293 of document 20 C/5. The Icelandic Government is now, after several years of experiments and preparatory work, proposing to the Althingi (the National Assembly) a bill on comprehensive upper secondary education, the main objectives and organizational guidelines of which are very much in accordance with the policy expressed in this part of our Organization's programme.
8.6 As far as the natural sciences are concerned, I will limit my remarks to two themes, the earth sciences and the marine sciences. There are vast amounts of energy hidden beneath the crust of the earth which once harnessed, will constitute a great source of wealth for many nations. Iceland is a volcanic country, and in recent years volcanic activity in the country has been unusually lively, to the extent where populated areas have even been endangered by the fires of the earth. It is thus clear that conditions in Iceland are extremely favourable for increasing man's knowledge of this inexhaustible source of power, and also for developing the techniques necessary for its utilization in places where it has to be extracted from deeper levels.
8.7 We Icelanders take a great interest in the international geological research programme sponsored and co-ordinated by Unesco. In this respect, the International Geological Correlation Programme (IGCP) and its research on the structure and evolution of the earth's crust merit a special mention. I would like to express my Government's support for this programme and wish it success in its next and important phase. As far as international co-operation in geothermal research and engineering, is concerned, permit me, Mr. President, to inform this Conference that we are moving towards a formal agreement between the United Nations University and the National Energy Authority of Iceland, according to which the latter will function as an Associated Institution of the United Nations University. Within the framework of this agreement, the National Energy Authority will design and organize, with the assistance of the University of Iceland, a project-oriented training programme in geothermal energy exploration and production which will be open to fellows of the United Nations University, especially from developing countries, as well as to Icelandic researchers. It is hoped that this programme will be launched next year. I would like, finally, to express my gratitude to the Director-General for the support he has always given to this international project.
8.8 If we Icelanders are interested in geology because of the nature of our country, our attachment to the marine sciences is even more self-evident. Iceland has played an active role in the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea which, we may hope, is now entering its final stage. The review of international law and rules of conduct conducted by this Conference calls for a far greater responsibility on the part of coastal States in administering oceanographic research, in organizing the rational use of the resources of the sea and in preventing marine pollution. Iceland is deeply concerned with the health of the sea, and supports the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) in its struggle against marine pollution; this is particularly true of its programmes concerning Global Investigation of Pollution in the Marine Environment (GIPME) and Marine Pollution Monitoring (MPM). We would also like to express our special support for two other co-operative pro- grammes of IOC: its Integrated Global Ocean Station System (IGOSS) and its Training, Education and Mutual Assistance (TEMA) programme.
8.9 With regard to the co-ordination of international research and monitoring work in the marine sciences, permit me to conclude with two remarks. First, as far as the organization of Unesco's internal work is concerned, we endorse the present arrangement according to which the main function of the Division of Marine Sciences is the execution of programmes while the IOC co-ordinates pro- grammes and promotes co-operation between Member States. We believe that both these bodies have useful functions within this organizational framework. Secondly, we wish to stress the need for a close co-ordination of Unesco's programmes in the marine sciences with the work of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES).
8.10 Mr. President, turning now to culture and communication, let me mention three items. The Icelandic delegation endorses the action proposed under paragraph 4376 of the Draft Programme and Budget (20 C/5), i.e. the encouragement of bilateral and multilateral co-operation to ensure the return of cultural property to its country of origin. In this respect it is worth mentioning with gratitude that the Government of Denmark has set an example by returning to Iceland a priceless collection of old manuscripts, written in Iceland but transferred to Denmark during the late seven- teenth or early eighteenth century. The Icelandic authorities are now following, in their turn, this generous example by returning to the Faroe Islands some documents concerning their history and administration during the period 1646-1782. To conclude this item, permit me to stress how obviously important the programme theme of the return of cultural property is for many developing countries.
8.11 Secondly, Mr. President, I would like here to express my particular appreciation of Unesco's translation programme and its promotion of representative works of not too widely known literatures and of works by contemporary authors written in languages not widely spoken.
8.12 Thirdly, allow me to make a few remarks about the important question of the mass media. The General Conference is faced with the responsibility of taking a decision on the Draft Declaration on Fundamental Principles Governing the Contribution of the Mass Media to Strengthening Peace and International Understanding and to Combating War Propaganda, Racialism and Apartheid. In this connection, it will be important for the Conference to arrive at a solution that respects the funda- mental freedom of expression in the mass media and attracts as much active engagement as possible among those responsible for the functioning of the mass media all over the world. At the same time, it is essential that, in the work plans and operational projects resulting from this Conference, due emphasis be laid upon the strengthening of communications infrastructures in the developing countries. The training of qualified personnel manpower and the development of news agencies are vital com- ponents of the great task we are faced with in this domain. Iceland will, for its part, contribute to a joint project of the Nordic countries and Unesco for development in Africa in this field.
8.13 With regard to the Draft Adjustments to the Medium-Term Plan (1977-1982), my delegation endorses the revision effected by the Director-General in Objective 6.B, concerning the status of women and the participation of women in development. We welcome the more dynamic approach adopted in document 20 C/4 and consider the new analysis of the problem to be more balanced and realistic, and thus more likely to achieve real progress.
8.14 My final remarks, Mr. President, concern the new international economic order. Since this concept was formulated in 1974 and 1975, the promising perspectives of a new and more equitable world economic order have, generally speaking, failed to materialize. There are certainly many reasons for this, and Unesco ought to contribute more to the analysis of these reasons, through studies and confrontations that could be organized by its Social Science Sector in co-operation with other Specialized Agencies and bodies. The suitability of a basic needs development strategy should be thoroughly and critically scrutinized in this respect.
8.15 The position of the industrialized nations is, of course, entirely different from that of the developing countries. The continued pursuance of economic growth in the industrialized countries is in itself a doubtful objective. In fact, there would be much more reason for these nations to lay the emphasis on a better quality of cultural and social life and on better social services rather than constantly trying to increase the volume of production and the consumption of technical innovations of doubtful utility. The economic growth race of the industrialized nations could become a very expensive affair for mankind at large. A more equal distribution of the earth's resources and a more equitable standard of living should be a prime target for a new international economic order, and indeed these are the very conditions for justice, peace and continued development.
8.16 In conclusion, Mr. President, allow me to wish Unesco well in its important work in the future. Because of its universality as a world-wide organization, Unesco has a unique and irreplaceable function. The Icelandic Government and the people of Iceland will continue to contribute to making Unesco an effective tool for a co-operative effort for educational, scientific and cultural development. Thank you, Mr. President. (M. LeBlanc prend la présidence)
9. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de l'Islande et je donne la parole à S. Exc. M. Domba Konate, ministre de l'éducation nationale et de la culture et chef de la délégation de la Haute-Volta.
10.1 M. KONATE (Haute-Volta).- Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, je voudrais, si vous me le permettez, satisfaire d'abord à un agréable devoir, celui de vous présenter, Monsieur le Président, mes vives félicitations au nom du gouvernement de la République de Haute-Volta et en mon nom propre pour votre brillante élection au poste de Président de cette vingtième session. Je suis convaincu que cette Conférence, sous votre conduite, grâce à votre sagesse et à la bonne connaissance des affaires de 1'Unesco que nous vous connaissons, saura prendre les décisions indispensables pour permettre à la communauté universelle de progresser dans sa quête de la paix et de la sécurité pour toutes les nations du monde. Je puis en tout cas vous assurer, Monsieur le Président, que vous aurez de la part de ma délégation tout l'appui nécessaire ainsi que la collaboration la plus totale dans l'accomplissement de votre délicate tâche.
10.2 La matérialisation des idéaux de notre Organisation dans le sens de ce qui avait été arrêté il y a de cela plus de trente ans est en effet une oeuvre immense. C'est pourquoi, avant d'intervenir plus particulièrement sur le Projet de programme et de budget, conçu, je le constate avec satisfaction, sur la base la plus large possible, je voudrais aussi rendre un hommage mérité au Président et aux membres du Conseil exécutif ainsi qu'au Directeur général de l'Unesco, qui n'ont épargné aucun effort pour renforcer notre Organisation.
10.3 Déjà à Nairobi, grâce à la foi que ces hommes ont en l'Unesco, grâce aussi à leur compétence, des questions vitales pour la survie de notre Organisation ont été traitées à la satisfaction de tous. Qu'il s'agisse en effet du rôle de la science et de la technologie dans ce "monde en devenir", de la nécessité d'un échange plus équilibré de l'information ou de la nécessité de trouver les voies et moyens pour réduire l'écart de développement grandissant entre pays industrialisés et pays en déve- loppement, on peut affirmer que la session de Nairobi aura permis de mieux situer le rôle de notre Organisation dans le monde actuel pour lui permettre de mieux contribuer à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international et à la réduction des tensions qui subsistent dans certaines régions.
10.4 Ces régions, c'est toujours l'Afrique australe où l'apartheid constitue une violence physique et morale contre la communauté noire, un défi manifeste à la communauté internationale, une menace permanente contre la vie, la civilisation et notre Organisation. C'est aussi la Namibie, le Zimbabwé où des minorités racistes accrochées avec la force du désespoir à un pouvoir décadent mettent en danger jusqu'à l'existence même des communautés blanches aux noms desquelles elles appliquent leur odieux système. C'est encore le Moyen-Orient où les efforts qui ont été jusqu'à présent déployés pour trouver des solutions radicales à des problèmes depuis trop longtemps posés ont été et demeurent insuffisants pour réduire ces conflits.
10.5 Mais personne ne peut oublier, et nous sommes reconnaissants à l'Unesco de l'avoir toujours affirmé avec toute la netteté voulue, que la réponse à ces défis et aux priorités de l'humanité ne peut être valablement envisagée que si chaque société, chaque nation, a la maîtrise de son propre développement. L'avenir ne peut en effet être véritablement appréhendé avec toute la sérénité voulue que si la communauté internationale tout entière, et partant chaque région, chaque pays, améliore sensiblement sa capacité de comprendre et de maîtriser les disparités socio-économiques en vue d'un développement global harmonieux et intégré.
10.6 C'est pourquoi nous fondons beaucoup d'espoir sur cette vingtième session de la Conférence générale pour aller de l'avant dans la réalisation des idéaux de l'Organisation. Peut-il d'ailleurs en être autrement quand on sait les efforts considérables qu'ont déployés le Directeur général et son Secrétariat pour traduire en actions de programme réalistes le Plan à moyen terme adopté à l'unani- mité par la Conférence générale à sa dix-neuvième session et dont la version simplifiée, "Comprendre pour agir", mérite d'être connue du plus grand public. En effet, le Plan à moyen terme, axé sur la contribution de notre Organisation à l'avènement du nouvel ordre économique international et qui sert de gouvernail à l'action de l'Unesco, continue d'être très actuel. Ma délégation partage à ce propos l'analyse du Directeur général sur la situation mondiale figurant dans la postface au Plan à moyen terme.
10.7 La Haute-Volta, ainsi d'ailleurs qu'un certain nombre de pays démunis, est confrontée a de sérieux problèmes qui entravent son développement. La tâche qu'il lui faut accomplir très rapidement pour aboutir a un développement autocentré et autonome est immense, d'autant que la structure de son économie est caractérisée par la prédominance d'un secteur rural qui occupe 80 pour cent de sa population, mais que son agriculture ne parvient pas a satisfaire les besoins alimentaires du pays. La recherche des voies et moyens de satisfaire rapidement les besoins vitaux de tous les Voltaiques est donc reconnue comme une de nos priorités, qui doit étre liée a une autre non moins importante, la satisfaction de nos besoins culturels.
10.8 C'est pourquoi les ajustements au Plan a moyen terme pour 1977-1982 qui sont proposés dans le document 20 C/4 Partie I et qui sont axés sur les problèmes concernant les populations les plus défavorisées, les ruraux, les femmes et les jeunes, ont le soutien total de ma délégation.
10.9 Pour revenir au Projet de programme et de budget pour 1979-1980, qui a retenu toute l'atten- tion de mon pays par sa nouvelle présentation et son contenu, ma délégation formule les observations générales suivantes, étant entendu qu'elle aura l'occasion, au sein des différentes commissions, de les développer.
10.10 Le programme de l'Unesco relatif à l'éducation, parce qu'il peut beaucoup contribuer à résoudre les problèmes spécifiques de mon pays, recueille tout mon appui. En effet, l'orientation donnée au programme d'éducation tendant à établir une relation dialectique entre le scolaire et l'extrascolaire, entre l'école et le travail, et à améliorer les contenus de l'enseignement, me paraît être de nature à aider les Etats membres dans la résolution de leurs problèmes d'éducation.
10.11 Ma délégation se réjouit qu'une attention particulière ait été réservée au renforcement des objectifs relatifs à la contribution de l'Unesco au développement rural intégré et à l'intensification de la lutte contre l'analphabétisme.
10.12 Mais ces programmes ne pourront prendre toutes leurs dimensions que si des crédits impor- tants, dépassant le cadre du Programme ordinaire de l'Unesco, sont dégagés pour soutenir des activités d'envergure de lutte contre l'analphabétisme afin de garantir une participation consciente et active de nos populations rurales au processus global de libération. Les crédits supplémentaires proposés par le Directeur général pour intensifier l'action de l'Organisation contre l'analphabétisme ont de ce fait le soutien de mon pays.
10.13 Ma délégation se réjouit en outre de l'attention particulière accordée à l'éducation relative à l'environnement. Il importe en effet que tout soit tenté pour freiner le processus de désertification accéléré que connaissent des régions comme le Sahel auquel appartient mon pays. Sur un plan plus général, s'agissant de l'acceptation globale du concept, la Haute-Volta souhaite vivement que l'Unesco puisse envisager les dispositions qui s'imposent pour que soient suivies d'effets la déclaration et les recommandations de la Conférence intergouvernementale sur l'éducation relative à l'environnement.
10.14 La problématique de l'intégration de l'enseignement technique et professionnel à l'enseignement général qui demeure une des idées-forces du projet de réforme de notre système éducatif constitue un thème majeur pour mon pays. A ce sujet, vous me permettrez d'évoquer, Monsieur le Président, le projet de création d'un fonds international pour l'enseignement technique et professionnel qui serait alimenté par des contributions volontaires des Etats membres. Ce fonds qui rencontre l'entier agrément de la Haute-Volta, nous l'appelons de tous nos voeux, car il pourrait aider des pays comme le mien à surmonter les nombreux obstacles à la promotion de ce type d'enseignement, quelque peu négligé dans les pays en développement. L'Unesco, on le sait, attache une très grande importance à l'élaboration de politiques d'éducation complètes et cohérentes dans les Etats membres et développe à cet effet des programmes qui insistent sur la planification de l'éducation, la collecte et la diffusion des informations, la formation de personnels qualifiés. La Haute-Volta partage d'autant plus ces préoccupations qu'elle est aujourd'hui confrontée à un problème important et urgent, celui de la réforme de son système éducatif, afin que celui-ci puisse contribuer à l'édification d'une société ouverte sur le monde et conforme à ses aspirations propres.
10.15 Le progrès scientifique et technologique demeure un élément essentiel du développement éco- nomique, social et culturel des peuples. On comprend donc les préoccupations de mon pays qui a été longtemps maintenu en marge de l'effort de recherche scientifique. La conséquence immédiate en est une connaissance insuffisante des données de base relatives aux conditions humaines et naturelles de son développement ainsi que de ses potentialités en matière de science et de technologie. Ma délé- gation, pour ces raisons, appuie toutes les actions du programme de l'Unesco dans le domaine des Sciences exactes et naturelles qui peuvent aider à la mise en place de politiques scientifiques et techniques cohérentes et au renforcement des infrastructures nationales.
10.16 Les actions proposées dans le cadre des grands programmes scientifiques intergouvernemen- taux rencontrent aussi mon agrément. La Haute-Volta réaffirme le vif intérêt qu'elle porte à ces programmes et son désir de contribuer, en tant que pays membre des conseils de ccordination du Programme sur l'homme et la biosphère et du Programme hydrologique international, au développement des activités de ces conseils en Afrique et particulièrement dans les pays membres du Comité inter- Etats de lutte contre la sécheresse dans le Sahel (CILSS). Les pays membres du CILSS ont déjà arrêté une stratégie axée sur les trois orientations suivantes : autosuffisance alimentaire sous-tendue par la maîtrise de l'eau ; restauration de l'espace sahélien ; protection des récoltes.
10.17 La Conférence des Nations Unies sur la désertification organisée par le Programme des Nations Unies pour l'environnement avait formulé dans le cadre de son programme d'action une série de recommandations qu'il convient d'avoir présentes à l'esprit. Les caractéristiques particulières des
417    écosystèmes de la zone sahélienne, la gravité de leur dégradation et la dangereuse rupture de l'équi- libre ressources-hommes, méritent une fois de plus d'être rappelées à l'attention de cette assemblée. Les problèmes posés par la gestion des milieux sahéliens sont de plus en plus complexes et ne peuvent être résolus dans l'optique d'une véritable restauration de l'espace sahélien qu'avec un engagement profond, une action vigoureuse de la communauté internationale et en particulier des organismes spécialisés du système des Nations Unies, car l'immensité de la tâche dépasse les seuls moyens humains et matériels de pays comme la Haute-Volta.
10.18 Je me réjouis à ce propos de constater que l'Unesco mène, en étroite coopération avec le Programme des Nations Unies pour l'environnement, des actions tendant à trouver des solutions à ce problème de la désertification. Le Programme sur l'homme et la biosphère, incluant l'environnement humain comme une de ses composantes essentielles, apporte un concours appréciable à ces actions.
10.19 Je tiens cependant à souligner que l'impact du Programme sur l'homme et la biosphère demeure encore relativement faible si nous considérons les pays du Sahel dans leur ensemble, à cause de la faiblesse des structures locales de recherche et du manque de personnel capable de promouvoir des activités de recherche. A cet égard, mon pays prend acte avec satisfaction des actions de formation prévues pour les deux années qui viennent et est prêt à y contribuer, notamment en permettant l'utilisation des sites de recherches intégrées existant sur son territoire.
10.20 Monsieur le Président, je sais que les moyens de l'Unesco sont limités et qu'il est toujours difficile de faire approuver un budget important même si les activités envisagées le commandent. Ma délégation ne peut cependant s'empêcher de s'inquiéter du sort réservé au problème de la mise en valeur de nouvelles sources d'énergie, problème auquel la Haute-Volta accorde une importance parti- culière. La crise de l'énergie a contribué à retarder le processus de développement de nos pays. Une action vigoureuse doit donc être envisagée pour favoriser la recherche et le développement expéri- mental des énergies renouvelables.
10.21 D'autres éléments du programme de l'Unesco de nature très différente, mais combien complé- mentaires de ceux dont je viens de vous entretenir, rencontrent aussi l'appui de ma délégation. Le respect de l'identité culturelle, le dialogue entre les cultures, la communication libre et équilibrée entre les peuples sont autant de points qui méritent notre soutien dans la mesure où les actions envisagées se rattachent étroitement à nos préoccupations actuelles.
10.22 Je voudrais cependant, Monsieur le Président, insister plus particulièrement sur le programme de l'Unesco pour la promotion des langues nationales. Sans présenter une situation linguistique aussi complexe que celle d'autres pays africains, la Haute-Volta compte au moins autant de langues qu'elle abrite d'ethnies. Ce phénomène constitue un handicap sérieux pour l'étude et l'utilisation des langues nationales, dans le cadre d'une politique de promotion d'une culture voltaïque authentique. Aussi, je souhaite que notre Organisation puisse entreprendre le Projet Unesco Horizon 2000 visant à trans- former certaines langues africaines en instruments complets d'élaboration et de transmission du savoir et du savoir-faire.
10.23 Le développement culturel, facteur indispensable de l'affirmation de l'identité culturelle, doit occuper une place importante dans le processus du développement endogène global. L'accent doit, de ce fait, être mis sur la conception de stratégies nouvelles qui fassent progresser la réflexion en matière de développement culturel et qui favorisent la création de conditions autorisant l'accès et la participation de toutes nos populations à la vie culturelle. C'est pour améliorer ces conditions d'accès et de participation à la vie culturelle de toutes les populations des pays de la sous-région que mon pays a accepté d'abriter un établissement pilote de formation des agents du développement culturel dans le domaine de l'audiovisuel : il s'agit de l'Institut africain d'éducation cinématographique de Ouagadougou.
10.24 A ce propos, Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi de m'étonner de voir que cet Institut, créé en 1975 avec l'appui total de l'Unesco, n'est mentionné nulle part dans le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1979-1980. Mais je suis reconnaissant au Conseil exécutif d'avoir constaté cet oubli et partant, d'avoir recommandé à la Conférence générale d'inclure cet Institut parmi les centres pilotes africains de formation des agents du développement culturel.
10.25 Les actions prévues en matière de communication me paraissent, quant à elles, être de nature à favoriser la mise en place d'un nouvel ordre de l'information. Mais la Haute-Volta souhaiterait de la part de l'Unesco un effort plus important, notamment dans le cadre du programme de participation en matièré d'information, pour le renforcement de la coopération réelle, celle du "donner et du recevoir" que nous souhaitons voir s'instaurer entre les nations.
10.26 Messieurs les délégués, toutes les questions abordées dans le cadre du Projet de programme sont de la plus haute importance pour la recherche de la paix par l'éducation et la culture. Mais leurs solutions ne peuvent être envisagées qu'avec l'appui total des Etats membres. C'est pourquoi je lance un appel à toutes les délégations ici présentes pour que le Projet de déclaration sur la race et les préjugés raciaux, qui me paraît être un instrument majeur dans la lutte contre le racisme et l'apartheid, soit adopté à l'unanimité par notre Conférence générale à sa présente session.
10.27 Monsieur le Président, l'on se souvient qu'à sa dix-neuvième session, la Conférence générale, dans sa résolution 100, a assigné comme objectif au programme de l'Unesco de "répondre aux besoins fondamentaux, en particulier à ceux des groupes les plus défavorisés, les politiques requises pour répondre aux besoins fondamentaux devant être au centre même de la stratégie pour la troisième Décennie pour le développement". Dans la perspective ouverte par cette résolution, nous estimons,
418     quant a nous, que le concept de besoins fondamentaux peut étre trés utile au niveau de nos pays. Mais il peut aussi se révéler assez ambigu et même dangereux, si l'on entend par "besoins essentiels" une sorte de minimum vital matériel et intellectuel dont le contenu serait défini de l'extérieur et imposé directement ou indirectement aux différents pays. La meilleure façon de prévenir ce risque est d'intégrer la notion de "besoins essentiels" au concept de nouvel ordre international, dans le droit fil de l'idée de développement endogène telle qu'elle est définie par le Plan à moyen terme de l'Organisation.
10.28 Pour conclure cette allocution, je dirai qu'en ce qui concerne le budget de l'Organisation, après étude des propositions qui nous sont soumises par le Directeur général, ma délégation est convaincue que le meilleur service que nous pouvons rendre à notre Organisation serait de lui don- ner les moyens d'agir, surtout si nous sommes d'accord sur les actions proposées dans le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1979-1980. Aussi mon pays a-t-il décidé de voter en faveur du plafond budgétaire provisoire et de donner ainsi une partie de son minimum vital à l'Organisation pour lui permettre de faire en sorte qu'il n'y ait pas trop d'écart entre les bonnes orientations définies dans le 19 C/4 et les actions de programme. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
11. Le PRESIDENT .- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Haute-Volta et je donne maintenant la parole à S. Exc. le Cheikh Abdul Aziz Bin Mohamed Al-Khalifa, ministre de l'éducation et chef de la délégation de Bahrein. (ssl ) ads ЛII yy, LL ‎ءاسؤرةداعسلاوىلاعملاباححصأ7ريدملاَديسلا+ىديفتتلاسلجملاسيكر.ديسلا © GedI ald! ‎Aل ‎لوىنرسي.دعم Ens ‎هللاةمحروميديمنابسلامفداسلاوتاابيسلااهيانوفولا em tag's ‎قيفوتالاهذ peuetele lis Lal! KEA] A ass!Ts ‘ ‎سيئرلا ¿ul pa ‎دنرمتملاعئانلا вл Je ‎نم se! ‎ةنهاسلاديفملاشاقتلانياراشملا ieALS Shue 3, VS LÉ Sh ieor Lyeое ‎نارمعلاواا EWRSS oR ‎ةميمح ap ae ss =À ‎لدابتوريما“ Ey!Epia ‎ءاّقللةئيمثاصرفوةبحرتالاجم
(12.1) Mr. AL-KHALIFA (Bahrain) (Translation from the Arabic): Mr. President, I should like first of all to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of this Conference and to wish you every success in guiding our deliberations. I also hope that those deliberations will prove fruitful for all who are participating in a Conference likely to have such a far-reaching effect on the formation of international public opinion and indeed on the moral, educational, scientific and cultural development of man himself.
(12.2) It is encouraging to reflect that while man in many parts of the world is suffering from the scourge of war, with all its destructive and disastrous consequences for civilization and culture, our Conference is opening up wider vistas and providing valuable opportunities for man to meet together in a spirit of friend- ship, to exchange ideas with one another and to work constructively to solve the problems of mankind so that all of us may enjoy a happier present and a safer future. It is by no means impossible that our Conference will provide the remedy and cure for many of the miseries and afflictions of mankind. What is
420    required of us is only that we should be more accurate in diagnosing the illness, more efficient and dynamic in prescribing the remedy, and bolder and more decided in administering the treatment. Duty and necessity alike impose this obligation on us, especially since our aim is the general interest and the general benefit. And now I should like, with your permission, Mr. President, to say a few words about the Draft Programme and Budget, document 20 C/5.
(12.3) First of all, I should like to congratulate the Director-General on this most valuable document, which will guide us throughout our deliberations; and especially on his clear and detailed Introduction which makes the entire document so much easier to grasp.
(12.4) Attention is rightly drawn at the very beginning of the Introduction to the close link between the Draft Programme and Budget for 1979-1980 and the Medium-Term Plan for 1977-1982. The draft programme was prepared within the framework of Unesco's Constitution, the draft programme, we are told, takes into account "not only the resolutions of the General Conference and the decisions of the Executive Board, but also the other means by which the international community has expressed its wishes or opinions concerning the future thrust of Unesco's activities”. The Introduction next refers to the analysis that was made of the general resolutions adopted by the General Conference at its nineteenth session, including the resolution entitled "Unesco's contribution to peace and its tasks with respect to the promotion of human rights and the elimination of colonialism and racialism; long-term programme of measures whereby Unesco can contribute to the strengthening of peace". I mention this resolution in particular because the reference to the promotion of peace and the condemnation of colonialism and racialism is repeated in many parts of the report. This is a matter to which I should like to revert at the end of my statement. The Introduction to document 20 C/5 goes on to state that the decisions of certain relevant international and regional conferences have been taken into consideration in the preparation of the draft programme, as have the resolutions of the United Nations General Assembly. Reference is also made to consultations with Member States, Associate Members and international non-governmental organizations, conducted on the basis of various types of questionnaires; and there is a detailed account of this useful method of conducting consultations and obtaining new opinions and ideas.
(12.5) The Introduction then deals with the important innovations contained in the presentation of docu- ment 20 C/5, describing them in detail in paragraphs 22-48. They are valuable innovations and I have only one reservation, regarding paragraph 42, the first sentence of which reads as follows: "Another new aspect of document 20 C/5 is the introduction at the start of each of the major chapters on education, natural sciences, social sciences and culture and communication, of a 'proposed resolution’ of a general nature suggesting lines of emphasis for the entire programme contained in the chapter concerned". Notwithstand- ing the statement latter in the paragraph that such proposed general resolutions "lay no claim at all to foreshadow the shape of the text that the General Conference may eventually adopt, but are intended as subjects for thought and as materials which the General Conference is free to use in defining its positions", I do not feel that this innovation is a sound one. For the advance formulation of the decisions will surely affect the utility of the discussions; indeed, rather than opening up wide new horizons of thought, it may lead to a totally opposite result.
(12.6) The next section of the Introduction, Mr. President, entitled "Directing the Organization, managing its resources and supporting and extending its action", concerns the administrative organs needed to carry out the Organization's programmes. The document deals in detail with the need for these organs and the importance of organizing them in such a way as to increase their productivity, enrich their output, and raise their standard. But there is no mention of the need to define the size of such organs in order to rationalize expenditure under that heading. It is true that the Director-General says, later in the Introduction (paragraph 207) under the title "The Budget", "A third principle by which I have been guided is to keep to the strictly essential minimum the creation of new posts". But that is not sufficient in a budget most of which is spent on salaries. Rather, it is necessary to reduce the executive and administra- tive organs. Budgeting should be fairly, justly and rationally applied to the various items of expenditure. This seems to be necessary and vital for an organization which constantly faces financial difficulties and crises because some of the major sources of financing like to cut off or restrict resources and behave parsimoniously, not in order to promote the welfare and prosperity of mankind but for opposite reasons. As the Arab poet says: "Don't praise Ibn 'Abbad, even if he is very generous. He is a moody man: whether he gives or withholds, he does neither out of generosity or avarice".
(12.7) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, if we now move on to take a brief look at the proposed pro- gramme, or at any rate at its highlight, education, we find sound, up-to-date ideas expressed in clear and cogent language. We too in the field of educational service in Bahrain believe that education is a quest to discover man's capacities, talents and potentials and to give him the opportunity to develop his capacities and potentials and to refine his talents, so that he may become an efficient factor and an active participant in the building of his society and his country and the establishment of his nation's structure. We believe in this and work for it. One example of what we are doing is the development of the Industrial College of the Gulf, a project currently being implemented with the financial support of private institutions. Another is the opening of the College of Health Sciences, which held its first graduation ceremony, at which degrees were conferred on both male and female students, on the evening of 12 October 1978. Yet another is the School of Hotel Management, which is operating most successfully and includes among its students a number of citizens from other Gulf States. We shall also shortly be opening a College of Science, Literature and Education.
(12.8) Here I must acknowledge with gratitude the great contribution made by Unesco through its experts to the rationalization of the educational process in Bahrain. In addition to the two experts in educational planning and curricula who have been working with us for the past three years, we are expecting an expert on secondary education to advise us on the alternatives that would be most suitable to the develop- ment of our country as far as the level of education is concerned. This expert is due to arrive towards the end of the present month, October 1978, and will stay with us for this academic year in order to study with our specialists ways of developing education at the secondary level to make it more consistent with the needs of the country. A further word of tribute is due to Unesco for the help it has been giving us in the planning and preparation of the College of Science, Literature and Education.
(12.9) Mr. President, I said that I would revert to the subject of peace towards the end of my statement. But is there really any point in talking about peace? Have we done anything else, up to now, besides talking? And is it possible to work calmly and quietly for the advancement of man and the assurance of his future in a world that carries in itself the means of its own annihilation, a wecrld where the powerful vie with one another in multiplying the means of evil, murder and destruction? What have we done for a world
421    where everybody is assaulting everybody else - a world where there is no more place for a good word or for a reasonable dialogue, but where the last word is with the rifle and the cannon, with the bullets of the traitor, the assassin and the sniper? What good is it to talk of peace in a world where even the poverty- stricken, undernourished masses of Asia and Africa are shedding their blood without a cause?
(12.10) This Conference should at least ask the Director-General to establish a permanent committee to discuss the subject of peace, to study it in depth and to propose effective practical steps for strengthening peace and condemning all practices that could endanger it. Thank you for your attention.
13. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de Bahrein. J'invite maintenant S. Exc. M. Adbul Rachid Djalili, ministre de l'éducation, président de la Commission nationale pour 1'Unesco et chef de la délégation de l'Afghanistan, à prendre la parole.
14.1 Mr. DJALILI (Afghanistan): Mr. President, my first act in addressing the Conference will be to convey to you, and through you to all peace-loving nations represented here, the sincere and fraternal greetings of our great and beloved leader Noor Mohammad Taraki, Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan, President of the Revolutionary Council and Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan, and to transmit his message of friendship, solidarity and best wishes for the successful conclusion of our deliberations in the interest of international peace, democracy and social progress.
14.2 As the first Minister of Education of the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan, it is my pleasure to reaffirm my country's adherence to the noble principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter and the Constitution of Unesco. As a peace-loving nation, we have supported and will continue to support the endeavours of the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies to create a just and peaceful world in which all men will live together in prosperity and dignity.
14.3 Permit me, Mr. President, to extend to you, on behalf of my delegation, our sincere congrat- ulations'upon your election to the presidency of the twentieth session of the General Conference. We are confident that under your able and wise guidance the deliberations of the Conference will lead to a fruitful result.
14.4 I would be failing my duties if I did not also convey our deep appreciation and gratitude to our outgoing President, the Executive Board, the Director-General and the Secretariat for the dedi- cation they have shown in the preparation of this Conference and the working documents which we shall be considering.
14.5 Since this is the first occasion on which the delegation of the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan is participating in the General Conference of Unesco, I feel it is my duty briefly to draw the attention of distinguished delegates to the important historical and liberating event that has occurred in the life of the Afghan people, namely the glorious April Revolution in Afghanistan.
14.6 The April Revolution was carried out under the leadership of the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan, in conformity with the prior instructions and guidance of our great leader, Noor Mohammad Taraki, and the participation of heroic party member officers and valiant soldiers in the armed forces, with the wholehearted support of the Afghan people. It brought to an end over 50 years of despotic rule by a tyrannical dynasty and a kind of colonial and tribal feudalistic regime connected with the dark reaction of imperialism, which left behind a shattered and backward economy and countless social and economic problems.
14.7 The April Revolution triumphantly brought down the towers of tyranny and despotism and crushed the last remnants of a decayed monarchy, which had vainly endeavoured to perpetuate its own selfish interests under the guise of a republic.
14.8 Our revolution, based on ensuring the democratic rights of the people, heralds a new era dedicated to the transformation of our economic, political, social and cultural structures and to the construction of a society free from poverty, corruption and exploitation of man by man.
14.9 Nearly six months have elapsed since our glorious revolution. In the short span of time since the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan was entrusted with the power of administering the State machinery, great strides have been made in adopting and implementing measures geared to the social and economic development of our people. Concrete steps have been taken to pave the way for a democratic agrarian reform. A Five-Year Development Plan is currently under preparation which envisages programmes in other sectors that will ensure the effective utilization of our country's human and natural resources for the advancement of the social and economic status of our people.
14.10 However, having made a realistic appraisal, we recognize that our financial and material resources are limited, and we therefore need and welcome the assistance of friendly countries. We deeply appreciate the support received for our revolution and the aid extended to us.
14.11 We expect all friendly countries and international organizations, including Unesco, to increase their assistance and expand their co-operation with us in our determined efforts to overcome the many shortcomings and economic and social problems inherited from the past oppressive and despotic regime.
14.12 Mr. President, the extreme imbalances in the economies of the developed and the developing countries constitute a constant and increasingly grave danger to the maintenance of world harmony and international co-operation. We note with regret and concern the ever-widening development and trade gap between the developed and developing countries. These economic disparities and inequal- ities, inherited from the colonial era, which was characterized by exploitation, can be replaced by an order which is based on justice and equity. If implemented, the new international economic order, which is fully supported by the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan, can provide, in our view, an acceptable framework for the realization of this goal. However, we note with concern that no measur- able progress has been made towards its attainment.
14.13 The affluent countries, which to a large extent remain impassive to the plight of the developing countries, have failed to heed the call for co-operation in the concerted effort of the nations of the world to create conditions conducive to development and peace. Some have seen their contribution to the establishment of such a world order as writing off debts or giving loans on easier terms, while others have pursued policies based on old colonial and imperialistic ideas. The present attitude of the affluent countries has led to a growing frustration among the developing countries, whose needs and aspirations continue to remain unfulfilled. Peaceful coexistence is not possible where there is too great an economic disparity amongst nations, where there is a situation of exploiters and exploited. If the existing inequalities continue and are allowed to gain momentum, they can become as great a threat to world peace as the continual amassing of armaments. The affluent countries must therefore sacrifice narrow interests and adopt more readily a unity of purpose and action with the developing countries in the creation of a new world order.
14.14 Mr. President, in this connection I should like to express my delegation's sincere appreciation to all socialist countries, which have never failed to recognize the need for redressing the imbalances brought about by the present archaic international economic system, and which have actively supported in every international forum the demands of the developing countries for a new international order. Experience has shown that wherever they have offered economic assistance it has been free of any commitment or condition that might have compromised the recipient country. On the eve of the Third United Nations Development Decade, may the affluent countries follow the example of our socialist friends and show more total commitment for what we consider to be the greater good of humanity, so that strategies for development and efforts towards world peace may be translated into meaningful realities.
14.15 Mr. President, just as economic disparities challenge world peace and security, violation of human rights and the constant proliferation of weapons also create a threat to international peace and constitute a serious impediment to the evolution of man. However, some progress has been made towards creating general conditions conducive to eliminating the flagrant violations of human rights and halting the growing arms race, notably through the organization of International Anti-Apartheid Year and the convening of a Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly devoted to Disarmament. Nevertheless, these steps do not suffice to meet the ineluctable and total challenge presented by these two burning issues of our time. In this, the final quarter of the twentieth century, we must make a more determined effort to create conditions of peaceful well-being through greater support for people fighting for the recognition of their rights and for movements in favour of disarmament.
14.16 Afghanistan, which has had to wage an arduous struggle against colonialism and imperialism and to safeguard its independence, feels deep solidarity with peoples resolved to ensure their self- determination, and hails the courageous struggle of national liberation movements everywhere. We should like to express our solidarity with the noble peoples of Namibia, Zimbabwe and Azania in their valiant struggle with the forces of racial discrimination, tyranny and suppression in Southern Africa.
14.17 As far as the Middle East is concerned, we believe that until the legitimate rights of the Palestinian and other Arab peoples of the region are restored, there will be no lasting peace or stability in the region: conditions for a just and lasting peace depend on the reinstatement of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people to self-determination, as stipulated in resolution 3236 (XXIX) of the General Assembly of the United Nations and the withdrawal of Israel from all occupied Arab territories.
14.18 Mr. President, while on the subject of racialism and disarmament, I should like to express my delegation's wholehearted support for the two draft resolutions submitted by the delegations of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic dealing with these issues. These are 20 C/PLEN/DR.1, which condemns the attempts of the racialist regimes of Pretoria and Salisbury to supress the efforts of the peoples of Southern Africa to achieve self-determination, freedom and national independence; and
20 C/PLEN/DR.2, which calls upon Unesco to generate a climate of public opinion in favour of solv- ing the problem of disarmament and diverting the vast intellectual and material resources wasted on the production of weapons for the betterment of mankind.
14.19 Mr. President, I should like now to refer to the two major documents before this Conference, namely the Draft Adjustments to the Medium-Term Plan (1977-1982) (20 C/4) and the Draft Programme and Budget for 1979-1980 (20 C/5). In view of the limited time at our disposal for discussing the items before us, I shall be brief in giving my delegation's views, which will be elaborated further in the meetings of the various commissions. Allow me to join those who have spoken before me in paying tribute to the Director-General and the Secretariat on the high quality of these two documents and the improvements made upon them in accordance with the guidelines given by the General Conference, at its nineteenth session, and by the Executive Board.
14.20 My delegation supports the new presentation and methodology given for the three objectives mentioned in the Draft Adjustments to the Medium-Term Plan (1977-1982), namely, those dealing with: the extension of Unesco's contribution to integrated rural development; the improvement of the status of women and the promotion of participation by women in economic, social and cultural development; and the development of the role of young people in educational, social and cultural activity.
14.21 My Government, which is particularly concerned with the problems of rural development, with the improvement of the status of women and with meeting the needs and aspirations of young people, welcomes the fact that in the Draft Adjustments to the Medium-Term Plan separate objectives have been defined for their solution. Integrated rural development is closely linked with the establish- ment of a new international economic order and is an indispensable condition for eliminating the disparities in national development between the developed and developing countries. The improve- ment of the status of women and the problem of youth in respect of education, access to employment, integration in the production process and practical participation in development activities cannot be ignored. My Government, in recognition of the important role of women and youth in the development process, has established two organizations: the People's Women's Organization and the People's Youth Organization, the aims of which are to involve these two groups in the country's development activities, while satisfying the desire to decide their own destinies and their need for expression, creativity and enjoyment.
14.22 1 would like now to comment on the Draft Programme and Budget for 1979-1980. The Director- General and the Secretariat must be commended on the manner in which they have succeeded in translating into programme actions the main lines of emphasis of the Medium-Term Plan. Document
20 C/5 has succeeded in meeting three essential requirements: it links Unesco's operational pro- grammes through the objectives of the Medium-Term Plan with its ultimate goals, it establishes clear central responsibilities regarding the various aspects of the implementation of the Medium-Term Plan objectives, and, lastly, it demonstrates the interdisciplinary correlation which is essential for the identification and possible solution of contemporary world problems. My delegation welcomes the two innovations made in the structure of the C/5 document, namely the inclusion of "expected results" and the proposed "general resolutions". These, we feel, will facilitate later evaluation of the pro- gramme,, as well as the work of this Conference. Mr. President, members of my delegation will comment in detail on the work plans of Unesco's programme activities for the next biennium during the examination of document 20 C/5 in the various commissions. I shall confine myself to expressing my delegation's views on selected topics.
14.23 My delegation supports the main orientation of the programme for education, and the new elements featured therein. In particular, it supports the proposals related to the contribution of education to socio-economic development, the application of the universal right to education, the association of education with productive work and the development process with due reference to trends in socio-economic development and scientific and technological progress.
14.24 The programmes relating to the promotion of literacy and adult education, the universalization of primary education and the provision of vocational and technical education meet with my delegation's approval, and are in line with my own Government's objectives of ensuring universal, compulsory and free primary education to all children of school age, the creation of all essential provisions for the effective struggle against illiteracy and the expansion of free intermediate, higher and vocational education. Our priority is the democratization and the improvement of the quality of education to serve the needs and requirements of the country and its people. We aim at establishing an educa- tional system which is geared to raising the standard of living of the people and which will enable future generations of Afghans in all walks of life to contribute actively and constructively towards the development and progress of our nation. One of the first steps taken by my Government towards the establishment of a new educational system was the abolition of the discriminatory educational reform enacted by the previous regime. This reform, under the pretext of providing vocational and pre-vocational education, deprived thousands of children from the age of 14 of the right to further education, as the facilities required for its implementation were lacking. The Ministry of Education of the Government of the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan, with the wholehearted support and unprecedented voluntary financial contribution of the people, has during the last seven months been able to give the "left out" children a fresh chance and hope for the future by taking them back into the educational system.
14.25 In the field of natural sciences, my delegation feels that the main task of the programme should be to establish links between scientific and technological development on the one hand, and the problems of society and human needs on the other. Unesco's activities in this connection should be directed towards problems related to the transfer and social appropriateness of technology, scien- tific and technological dependency, and towards the training of local self-reliant scientific and tech- nological personnel. In particular, we feel that the forthcoming United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development (UNCSTD) will constitute a cornerstone of the new economic order; in our view, Unesco should have proposed a higher budgetary provision for the Science Sector and intensified projects which would bring about development in more realistic terms.
14.26 My delegation approves the general orientation of the proposed programme for culture and communication, and particularly appreciates the manner in which activities related to cultural identity, cultural development, the mutual appreciation of cultures and the development of communication infrastructures have been linked with overall development. However, we feel that Unesco's activities in the field of mutual cultural appreciation should focus attention on the content of cultural ties so that they are used to strengthen peace, friendship and mutual understanding, rather than in the service of anti-humanistic attempts to foster animosity and hatred between peoples.
14.27 In this connection, my delegation supports the initiative taken by the delegation of the Union of the Soviet Socialist Republics in presenting a draft resolution dealing with this problem, and hopes that it will be enthusiastically adopted by the Conference. While on the subject of cultural appreciation, I should also like to voice my delegation's support for draft resolution 20 C/ADM/DR.1, submitted by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic on the wider use of the Russian language in Unesco, with the aim of ensuring that this language realizes its potential as an effective medium of international communication and exchange, and further contributes to the effective implementation of Unesco's programmes.
14.28 With regard to the preservation of the cultural heritage, I should like to avail myself of this opportunity to express my Government's appreciation for the valuable contribution made by Unesco in the preliminary steps for the launching of an international campaign for the preservation and rehabili- tation of the city of Herat. My Government, Mr. President, looks to Unesco and fellow Member States for support in its activities to preserve the cultural and historical significance of this beautiful city, which we feel is not only our national heritage but that of all mankind.
14.29 In again reiterating my Government's adherence to the Constitution of Unesco and our unre- served support for Unesco's efforts to achieve the establishment of a new international economic order, which would satisfy the basic human aspiration for global development, peace and justice, the delegation of the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan would like to express to the Organization its sincere appreciation for the assistance given to our country's various educational scientific and cultural development programmes, and its hope that such assistance will be expanded in the future. Thank you, Mr. President.
15. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de l'Afghanistan et je donne la parole à S. Exc. M. Euro Brandao, ministre d'Etat de l'éducation et de la culture, chef de la délégation du Brésil.
16.1 M. BRANDAO (Brésil) (discours prononcé en portugais, traduction française fournie par la délégation).- Monsieur le Président, je tiens avant tout à vous féliciter pour votre élection et à réaffirmer notre confiance dans le succès des travaux de la vingtième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco, pour le progrès scientifique, culturel et éducatif de tous les peuples.
16.2 La délégation du Brésil prend part à cette réunion dans le même esprit de collaboration que celui qui l'animait lors de la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence, à Nairobi. Nous sommes ici pour unir nos efforts dans la recherche des voies qui conduiront à la formation intégrale de l'homme, au perfectionnement de la société dans laquelle l'être humain s'épanouira dans toute sa dignité.
16.3 Permettez-moi tout d'abord de constater avec plaisir que les grands objectifs de l'Unesco coïncident avec nos politiques culturelle et éducative. L'idée que l'éducation et la culture sont des instruments de base du développement est en soi un puissant stimulant pour les pays en développe- ment, dont les populations aspirent à une amélioration de la qualité de leur vie.
16.4 Dans ce contexte, il ne faudrait pas qu'une trop grande dispersion des ressources de l'Orga- nisation réduise l'impact des activités programmées, en dépit des contributions substantielles appor- tées par chacun de nos pays. Il est urgent de trouver une solution à ce problème fondamental.
16.5 La délégation du Brésil est également préoccupée par l'accroissement des dépenses adminis- tratives de l'Organisation, et en particulier des dépenses de personnel. Nous comprenons et nous acceptons le fait que, dans le cadre des activités de l'Unesco, les dépenses de personnel soient généralement élevées. Nous estimons cependant nécessaire de procéder à un rigoureux réexamen de ces dépenses, pour mieux équilibrer le rapport coûts-bénéficices. Nous soulignons ainsi notre souhait d'une efficacité de plus en plus grande de l'Unesco, répondant mieux encore aux besoins des Etats membres.
16.6 C'est avec satisfaction que nous voyons l'Organisation se préoccuper de l'enseignement rural, de l'enseignement technique et professionel, de l'éducation des adultes, de l'éducation des enfants handicapés et des enfants exceptionnels, sans négliger pour autant les autres problèmes éducatifs.
16.7 Cette orientation est celle du Brésil, où nous reconnaissons aussi la nécessité de mettre l'accent sur ces domaines particuliers. A cet égard, nous avons élaboré un ensemble d'activités spécifiques pour trouver des solutions appropriées à ces problèmes, en insistant notamment sur l'enseignement rural, dans le contexte déjà mentionné de la formation de l'homme intégral.
16.8 Le Brésil, par son Service national de l'apprentissage rural, assure aux travailleurs ruraux, outre une éducation de base, le complément technique dont ils ont besoin pour atteindre leurs objec- tifs. Rien qu'en 1977, ce programme a permis la formation de 250.000 de ces travailleurs.
16.9 Pour répondre à certains besoins de l'enseignement rural dans le nord-est du Brésil, un nouveau programme est actuellement en cours, qui bénéficiera, nous l'espérons, de l'aide de la Banque mondiale. Il s'agit en effet d'un programme de pointe, qui intégrera l'éducation dans le cadre plus large du développement rural en affrontant, en même temps, les problèmes parallèles de la santé, de l'emploi et d'une utilisation adéquate des techniques agricoles.
16.10 L'expérience que l'on pourra tirer de ce programme sera par la suite appliquée a d'autres régions du pays. Nous serons heureux que 1'Unesco la suive, car nous la croyons susceptible d'inté- resser d'autres pays dont les besoins sont semblables, tant en Amérique latine qu'en Afrique ou en Asie.
16.11 C'est avec le copatronage de 1'Unesco qu'une réunion technique sur la méthodologie de la planification de l'éducation en vue du développement intégré des zones rurales se tiendra à Brasilia, du 6 au 10 novembre prochains, avec la participation de représentants de pays africains et latino- américains. Ce sera peut-être là le premier pas vers une analyse conjointe de ce problème.
16.12 Conscient du rôle important des échanges culturels dans l'intégration régionale, le Brésil cherche à intensifier ses programmes de coopération avec les pays frères du continent. C'est ainsi que chaque année près de 3.000 étudiants latino-américains ont la possibilité de faire des études dans les universités brésiliennes, et ce dans tous les domaines de l'enseignement supérieur.
16.13 La qualification professionnelle de la main-d'oeuvre - problème fondamental pour toute nation en développement - exige du Brésil des efforts substantiels et des solutions spécifiques. Le Système national de formation de la main-d'oeuvre, qui coordonne l'action du gouvernement et du secteur privé dans ce domaine, a formé rien qu'en 1977 3.330.000 travailleurs dans les secteurs de l'indus- trie, du commerce et de l'agriculture. Le Brésil est tout disposé à partager son expérience dans ce domaine avec d'autres pays en développement.
16.14 Toujours dans le même contexte, il convient de mentionner les nouvelles possibilités de for- mation de professeurs au moyen de cours par correspondance. Grâce à la télévision et à la radio, les diverses régions du pays peuvent recevoir des cours qui comprennent non seulement les programmes des quatre premières années du premier degré, mais aussi ceux des quatre années suivantes, com- plétant ainsi le cycle de base. L'enseignement de niveau moyen est maintenant également transmis par la télévision ; un complément à ces cours est fourni par des textes imprimés, faciles à acquérir chez les marchands de journaux. Ce système est le fruit des efforts conjugués d'un organisme dépendant du gouvernement et d'une chaîne de télévision privée.
16.15 Le Brésil est également très actif dans un autre domaine, celui de l'éducation préscolaire. Nul n'ignore combien il importe d'accorder aux jeunes enfants l'attention voulue pour les préparer à l'école, ce qui permet d'éliminer, ou au moins de réduire les redoublements de classe, et, dans une certaine mesure, l'absentéisme scolaire. C'est à l'Unesco d'encourager, par ses programmes, la par- ticipation croissante des pays dans ce domaine, en vue d'obtenir de meilleurs résultats.
16.16 Dans le domaine de la culture, guidée par le souci de préserver le patrimoine culturel de l'humanité, l'Unesco s'est employée, dès sa création, à sauvegarder les monuments et les sites artis- tiques et historiques dans diverses régions du monde. Elle accorde sur ce point une aide appréciable au Brésil qui, en 1977, a ratifié et promulgué la Convention concernant la protection du patrimoine mondial, culturel et naturel. Elle lui a fourni des ressources et des experts pour les travaux de conservation effectués dans plusieurs villes historiques brésiliennes, telles qu'Ouro Preto, Parati et Säo Luis. En 1977 et 1978, le Brésil a alloué près de dix millions de dollars au programme de con- servation de son patrimoine historique, et il se propose de lui consacrer une somme de l'ordre de soixante-dix millions de dollars dans les cinq années à venir. Le Brésil met à la disposition des pays amis l'expérience qu'il a déjà acquise dans ce secteur prioritaire, en espérant continuer à recevoir l'assistance technique de l'Unesco pour la formation et le perfectionnement de spécialistes de la restauration des biens culturels.
16.17 La diffusion de la culture est également un des objectifs prioritaires de notre pays. Le Minis- tère de l'éducation et de la culture a mis en oeuvre à cet effet des programmes dans cinq secteurs d'activités : aide aux artistes et à la créativité culturelle ; promotion d'activités culturelles ; for- mation de l'artiste ; meilleur accès aux instruments et aux matériaux artistiques ; construction et aménagement de locaux pour l'activité artistique. Des ressources se montant à près de dix millions de dollars ont été allouées à ces secteurs.
16.18 Parmi les centres créés, je mentionnerai, pour ne citer qu'un exemple de centre à la cons- titution duquel l'Unesco a participé, le Centre de créativité de Brasilia, qui s'est ouvert il y a un an, et qui a déjà proposé des cours d'arts plastiques, de cinéma, de photographie, de théâtre et de danse aux jeunes de Brasilia.
16.19 Citons aussi le projet d'éducation relative à l'environnement de Ceilandia, qui méne une cam- pagne systématique d'éducation écologique auprès d'une population de près de 40.000 enfants et adolescents et de 10.000 adultes dans la banlieue de Brasilia. Le gouvernement brésilien a témoigné de l'importance qu'il attache à cette question en créant un organe spécifique à l'échelle nationale : le Secrétariat spécial à l'environnement, qui dépend du Ministère de l'intérieur.
16.20 Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les délégués, l'éducation est l'un des principaux instruments de l'effort considérable entrepris par les pays en développement, en vue d'un progrès dont l'homme sera véritablement bénéficiaire. L'Unesco mène à cet égard une action d'une importance capitale, en favorisant l'amélioration des systèmes éducatifs dans le monde entier et en oeuvrant pour l'augmen- tation des budgets destinés à cette fin dans chaque pays.
16.21 Toutefois, il reste encore beaucoup à faire pour que l'objectif d'universalisation de l'ensei- gnement devienne une réalité ne serait-ce que dans le premier degré et pour que ce courant s'am- plifie et s'étende aux autres niveaux de l'éducation. La campagne mondiale d'alphabétisation n'a pas
426     encore atteint les résultats que 1'Unesco en attendait. Le taux de croissance de la population dans bien des régions continue a dépasser celui de l'alphabétisation. Les progrès réalisés en Amérique latine, et notamment au Brésil, sont certainement des plus encourageants, mais il est indispensable, et de la plus grande urgence, que l'Unesco puisse obtenir pour sa campagne des ressources encore plus considérables.
16.22 Un effort important a été fait ces dernières années dans notre pays pour supprimer l'anal- phabétisme. Dans ce secteur, le Brésil, grâce aux activités du MOBRAL - Mouvement brésilien d'al- phabétisation - a acquis une rare expérience. En huit ans d'activité, le MOBRAL a alphabétisé près de douze millions de personnes dans les 3.853 communes brésiliennes et a pu ainsi faire tomber le taux d'analphabétisme de 33 % en 1970 à 14 % à l'heure actuelle. Il faut souligner l'effort réalisé pour aider le nouvel alphabétisé en l'intégrant socialement dans des centres culturels appropriés où il puisse suivre des cours et bénéficier d'une formation professionnelle qui lui permette d'avoir accès à de meilleures possibilités d'emploi. D'année en année, les crédits alloués à l'éducation par les pouvoirs publics - gouvernement fédéral, Etats et municipalités - s'accroissent sensiblement en pourcentage.
16.23 Mais c'est surtout dans le domaine de l'enseignement de base que cette tendance s'accentue. Dans le premier degré, environ 80 % de nos enfants de 7 à 14 ans - soit dix-huit millions - vont à l'école ; dans le second degré, en même temps que nous assistions à l'implantation de l'enseignement professionnel, les inscriptions augmentaient très rapidement, et le nombre des élèves atteint aujour- d'hui plus de deux millions ; quant à l'enseignement supérieur, il accueille près de un million deux cent mille étudiants.
16.24 Des sommes importantes sont allouées à des programmes spéciaux. Ainsi, le Fonds d'aide sociale (FAS), créé pour aider les administrations locales et les institutions privées à développer leurs activités dans le domaine de l'éducation, de la culture et du sport, a prévu de leur allouer, en trois ans, une somme de huit cents millions de dollars, destinée principalement aux constructions scolaires.
16.25 Le programme de crédits pour l'éducation, aux termes duquel des avances remboursables peuvent être versées aux étudiants pour faire face à leurs frais d'inscription annuelle et de sub- sistance touche actuellement près de 300.000 personnes. Chaque année, les sommes allouées aug- mentent, et elles ont atteint, en 1977, l'équivalent de cent quarante millions de dollars.
16.26 L'aide apportée aux étudiants pauvres reçoit une attention prioritaire. Au titre de notre programme concernant l'alimentation à l'école, vingt millions de repas gratuits sont quotidiennement servis dans tout le pays ; nous distribuons, toujours gratuitement, vingt millions de livres par an aux élèves du premier degré. Une autre activité de pointe commence à s'implanter : il s'agit du programme de promotion de l'éducation des jeunes défavorisés. C'est en fait une modalité de l'ensei- gnement destiné aux enfants des banlieues des grandes villes, dont les familles ne sont pas en mesure de s'occuper, et qui sont constamment à la recherche de menus travaux.
16.27 Le secteur de l'éducation physique et des sports retient tout autant notre attention. Au cours des deux dernières années, près de vingt-cinq millions de dollars ont été alloués par le Gouverne- ment fédéral à la construction de gymnases, de terrains de sport, de piscines, et à la formation de moniteurs. Nous sommes heureux de constater que l'Unesco a le même souci dans ce domaine et c'est avec plaisir que nous annonçons que nous avons l'intention de participer au Fonds international pour le développement de l'éducation physique et du sport.
16.28 Ce n'est pas sans raison que nous mentionnons tous ces faits. Nous le faisons pour que tous les autres pays en développement en prennent connaissance et pour leur dire que nous leur ouvrons nos portes, afin qu'ils viennent partager nos expériences qui, dans la plupart des cas, nous semble- t-il, pourront leur être utiles.
16.29 C'est avec ce désir de coopération, dans le but d'élargir les chemins déjà tracés par nous et de trouver de nouvelles voies vers notre objectif commun - donner à l'homme une vie meilleure -, que nous prenons part à cette vingtième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco.
16.30 Nous avons déjà souligné que nous regrettions l'insuffisance des ressources dont dispose l'Organisation pour les immenses tâches qui lui incombent. Cependant, nous n'ignorons pas que chaque pays doit lui-même apporter une contribution essentielle à la solution de ses propres pro- blèmes. Conscient de cette obligation, le Brésil cherche, avec les moyens dont il dispose, à trouver des solutions qui lui soient spécifiques. Sur ce point, nous ne faisons certainement pas exception.
16.31 , Nous ne pouvons cependant manquer de reconnaître que la tâche est gigantesque, et que la coopération internationale est indispensable si nous voulons atteindre plus rapidement les objectifs que nous nous proposons tous.
16.32 Nous n'ignorons pas davantage les difficultés économiques et financières que traverse la communauté des nations. Toutefois, ces obstacles sont plus grands pour les pays les plus pauvres, qui sont justement ceux où la création d'une infrastructure économique et sociale exige des investis- sements plus importants.
16.33 En conséquence, dans un monde toujours plus interdépendant, on attend de ceux qui sont économiquement et financièrement plus forts qu'ils apportent aux plus faibles une aide, en particulier sur le plan multilatéral où l'Unesco se distingue par la grande diversité des activités qu'elle met en oeuvre.
16.34 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, la vocation propre de 1'Unesco est de concourir à la pleine réalisation de l'homme - objectif vers lequel tend tout l'effort que déploient les Nations Unies en faveur de la paix et du progrès.
16.35 Sur ce chemin, la première étape est l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international dont le but est d'instaurer plus de justice et d'harmonie entre les nations et de favoriser le progrès social et culturel de l'humanité.
16.36 L'Unesco pourra apporter une collaboration précieuse à la formulation de politiques conduisant à la réalisation de ces objectifs, ainsi qu'à la création et au perfectionnement d'instruments grâce auxquels ces politiques pourront effectivement être mises en oeuvre.
16.37 Par conséquent, l'Organisation devra se préoccuper chaque fois davantage de l'aspect fonc- tionnel de ses programmes afin que ses activités se renforcent l'une l'autre, permettant ainsi d'at- teindre les objectifs souhaités.
16.38 A l'heure actuelle, l'un des graves problèmes de la communauté internationale est le risque de voir la distance séparant les nations plus développées de celles qui le sont moins s'accentuer davan- tage, en raison de la disparité des connaissances scientifiques et technologiques et des moyens donnant accès au progrès. L'Unesco doit donner une priorité absolue aux activités qui permettront de corriger cette situation.
16.39 Au nombre des mesures à adopter, une place prépondérante revient, évidemment, à celles qui sont destinées à faciliter le transfert des connaissances scientifiques et technologiques. Mais l'Unesco possède des moyens particuliers pour stimuler l'action dans deux autres domaines non moins promet- teurs : la coopération horizontale entre pays en développement, et l'encouragement de la création endogène de technologies.
16.40 Le Brésil, qui a acquis de l'expérience dans ces domaines, et qui cherche à l'élargir et à la diversifier, est prêt à collaborer avec les autres pays et avec l'Unesco, en vue de sa diffusion.
16.41 De même, il accueille avec plaisir le concours des autres pays qui possèdent des expériences analoguês. Il propose donc à l'Unesco et à ses Etats membres d'étudier ensemble les modalités les plus efficaces de la réalisation de cet effort commun. En même temps, il invite l'Unesco à donner tout son appui aux efforts multilatéraux déployés dans ce sens. A cet égard, il souligne la contribution que l'Organisation pourra apporter à la Conférence des Nations Unies sur la science et la technique au service du développement, qui aura lieu à Vienne en 1979.
16.42 Le Brésil fera tout son possible pour que de nouvelles orientations du programme soient définies au cours de cette vingtième session de la Conférence générale, pour que le Secrétariat puisse jouer un rôle plus efficace dans la mise en place d'un ordre social plus juste correspondant mieux aux aspirations des peuples en développement.
16.43 C'est avec satisfaction que nous avons pris connaissance de la décision du Conseil exécutif, qui approuve, en les applaudissant, les activités de l'Unesco au cours de l'exercice biennal qui se termine maintenant, et que nous l'appuyons. Nous félicitons tout particulièrement le directeur géné- ral, M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, pour l'excellent travail qu'il a mené à bien à la tête de l'Organisation, et pour la contribution décisive qu'il a apportée au maintien de l'esprit de coopération indispensable à la pleine réalisation de ses objectifs.
16.44 Je voudrais conclure par une remarque : j'ai tenu à prononcer ce discours en portugais, parce que c'est une langue qui est aujourd'hui parlée par près de deux cents millions d'habitants dans diverses régions du monde, ce qui la met au sixième rang des principaux idiomes. C'est pour- quoi nous espérons la voir figurer, aussitôt que possible, au nombre des langues officielles de l'Unesco, ce qui sera une manière de reconnaître l'importance politique et culturelle des pays luso- phones dans le concert des nations.
17: 1"Le& PRESIDENT == Je remercie en votre nom le chef de la délégation du Brésil.
17.2 Je me permets de vous signaler que, conformément à la recommandation du Bureau, la séance plénière de lundi après-midi commencera par l'examen du point 72 de notre ordre du jour (Admission de la Namibie comme membre de l'Unesco), pour lequel vous disposez du document 20 C/118.
17.3 D'autre part, Le Bureau a approuvé une recommandation concernant le traitement des pro- positions de programme présentées par les Etats membres, recommandation dont le texte vous sera soumis en séance plénière, sous la forme d'un projet de résolution, dans les prochains jours.
17.4 Enfin, le Bureau a décidé d'autoriser un certain nombre d'organisations internationales non gouvernementales, qui en avaient fait la demande, à prendre la parole dans le cadre du débat de politique générale.
17.5 La séance est levée. The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m. La séance est levée à 13 h.20 Se levanta la sesión a las 13.20 Заседание закрывается в ‏13.20 dda]! css,وهظالادعبةقيفد3.وةدحولاةعاسلا55‏