Tenth plenary meeting
27 September 1980 at 3.20 p.m. President: Mrs GROZA (Romania) later: Mr MARGAN (Yugoslavia) Dixième séance plénière
27 septembre 1980 a ‎لك Président : Mme GROZA (Roumanie) Puis : M. MARGAN (Yougoslavie) Décima sesión plenaria
1980498 270T+38H20% Ek: BELLE: ЖА: ЭНА(НЫ)     GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)/DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)/ DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuación)/OBCYKIEHUE ВОПРОСОВ ОБЩЕЙ ПОЛИТИКИ /продолж./ (pols) ‎ةماعلاةسايسلاةشقانم /EIA (E) т. La PRESIDENTE.- Mesdames et Messieurs, la dixième séance plénière est ouverte ; je donne la parole à S. Exc. M. Saif Ali Al Jarwan, ministre du travail et des affaires sociales et chef de la délégation des Emirats arabes unis.
(2.1) Mr AL JARWAN (United Arab Emirates) (Translation from the Arabic): Madam President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Your excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I should like first of all to express my great pleasure at this unusual opportunity which has been made available to me thanks to the generosity of my friend and colleague, the Honourable Sa'id Salman, Minister of Education and Youth of the United Arab Emirates. Mr Sa'id Salman asked me to take his place as the head of our country's delegation to this distinguished Conference. He himself would very much have liked to be present on this auspicious occasion, but unfortunately pressing circumstances required him to remain in our country.
(2.2) It gives me great pleasure to join those who have spoken before me in congratulating Mr Ivo Margan on his election as President of this Conference at its twenty-first session. I am fully confident that Mr Margan's experience and impartiality will be the best guaran- tee of the success of this session in the course of its five weeks.
(2.3) In addition, I am pleased to have this opportunity to express my gratitude and appreciation for the work done by the Chairman of the Executive Board and all the members of that Board, and for the efforts they have put into following up the implementation of the resolutions of the previous Conference and preparing for the present one.
(2.4) Nor do I wish to let pass this opportunity to express my thanks to our distinguished Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, and the Secretariat of the Organization, for the efforts they have put into expediting the work of the Organization and making much useful expertise available to countries which needed it. I say this in recognition of the substantial efforts which the Organization has made in my own country; this is a matter which I propose to discuss in a few minutes.
(2.5) Madam President, with your permission I shall briefly review the course of educa- tion in our young state. Formal education in the strict sense is a novelty torus. Tt really began only in 1953. At that time the number of students enrolled was approximately
300. But then the number began to grow and increase until by 1979-1980 it had reached approximately 100,000, both boys and girls. In the sphere of university education, the number of students from our country was approximately 50 in 1972, while by 1979-1980 it had grown to some 1,500 young men and women. As regards the eradication ofl literacy, and adult education, the number of persons studying has risen from 5,000 in 1972-1973 to 14,000 by 1979-1980. In November 1977 the University of theUnited Arab Emirates opened its doors, adding a new and lustrous element to our education system. In the academic year 1979-1980 this university had 1,800 students of both sexes, and the forthcoming academic year will see its first output, some 400 young men and women who will be the first graduating class.
(2.6) At this point I must say a word of acknowledgement and appreciation to our counter- parts in the Arab nations who preceded us along the road of setting up an education sys- tem. They were generous in sharing their valuable experience with us, and they readily provided us with all available assistance in pressing ahead with our education system. It is also incumbent upon us to speak of the valuable technical assistance which Unesco has given and continues to give to us under a project to develop the various sectors of our education system, both at university level and in general education. This assistance includes laboratories, teaching aids, libraries and school buildings; it has also helped us with educational organization, administration and planning, training, and iso ron. 71 also wish to commend our close co-operation with the Arab Educational, Cultural and Scien- tific Organization, headed by its Director, Dr Muhyi al-Din Sabir, in our various areas of activity, and with the Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States, headed by Dr Muhammad Ahmad al-Rashid.
(2.7) Madam President, my country, believing that education has an effective role to play in promoting peace and mutual understanding between peoples, has not restricted its efforts to the dissemination of education among UAE citizens alone; on the contrary, it has endeavoured to spread education as widely as possible, with the result that the proportion of students in the schools of the country who are not UAE citizens is 45 per cent, as against 55 per cent for their counterparts who are citizens, and all receive their education free. We also provide outside scholarships to students from 42 countries.
10 (2.8) We of the United Arab Emirates believe firmly in the principles of human rights and equality between peoples; this is something which follows from our true religion, our values, and our firm ideals. From this starting-point, we condemn all forms of racial discrimination wherever they occur, especially in South Africa and the occupied Arab territories, where the most hideous types of racial discrimination are practised by the aggressive Zionist gangster state of Israel, which claims to be characterized by freedom and justice and equality, whereas in reality it has behaved absolutely without restraint, resorting to expulsion from the country, physical liquidation, aggression against cultural and personal property, and an effort to obliterate the national character of Arab territory, notably the land of Palestine. We look to this Conference to adopt resolutions which will serve to repel the injustice and coercion to which these helpless peoples have been subjected, particularly as we approach the end of the twentieth century.
(2.9) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, above all I must not forget to add a few words of truth and acknowledgement to this country which is acting as our host, and from which we have had such generous hospitality, such a warm reception and such agreeable treatment ever since our arrival. May I offer my most heartfelt thanks to the Republic of Yugoslavia, its President, government and people. And I pay my respects to the immortal spirit of Marshal Tito.
(2. 10) Last but not least, on behalf of the United Arab Emirates, I should like to say that we hope most earnestly and sincerely that this Conference will be a successful one, and that this Organization, Unesco, will also meet with every success in carrying out its noble mission under the leadership of its Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, who has led it in past years so expertly, faithfully and wisely, and who, God willing, will lead it in future with the same spirit and generosity. Congratulations, Mr Director- General, for the immense collective confidence which you enjoy. Your unanimous re- election to a second term of office is a happy event for this Organization and for human rights. Heartiest congratulations, Sir, along with affection and esteem as well. I am especially pleased to be expressing these sentiments in view of the fact that I am the first speaker to have the opportunity to do so officially in this forum since your re- election. May God grant you success in carrying out your noble and arduous mission, the mission of science and culture, the mission of enlightenment and human rights. "And say: work, for God will see your work, and so will His Prophet, and the believers." Peace and the blessing and mercy of God be upon you. Thank you.
3. La PRESIDENTE.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation des Emirats arabes unis et je donne la parole à M. Birgir Thorlacius, secrétaire général du Ministère de l'éducation et de la culture et chef de la délégation de l'Islande.
4.1 Mr THORLACIUS (Iceland) : Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, may I take this opportunity of con- gratulating Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow most warmly and sincerely on his reappoint- ment to the post of Director-General. I should also like to congratulate Unesco and the international community on having the good fortune of securing Mr M'Bow's leadership for the years to come. Finally, I wish to remark in this connection that my delegation finds it enormously encouraging to see the international com- munity united in the manner witnessed this morning.
4.2 TI should like to thank the Director-General for his report on Unesco's acti- vities, and in this connection may I state that the Icelandic delegation supports his endeavours to protect the Constitution of Unesco from violation.
4.3 Madam President, in my intervention I should like to consider certain sig- nificant objectives and themes of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983, together with some general considerations which are relevant to the medium-term planning of the Organization. Before examining these points, however, let me express my appreciation of the valuable work done by the Director-General and his staff in preparing the programme documents, and of the extensive and many-sided consultations conducted by the Director-General during the preparatory phase.
4.4 With regard to the education programme, Madam President, let me emphasize two objectives, which the delegation of my country has stressed at previous ses- sions of the General Conference. These are the struggle against illiteracy and the formation of educational structures. We regard it to be self-evident that the struggle against illiteracy should be the constant duty of us all. The right to learn reading and writing is indeed an indispensable and elementary basis of the universal right to education. The increased rate of growth planned for this ob- jective in the draft programme and budget is to be welcomed, as is Unesco's con- stant effort to enhance the understanding of the problem of illiteracy with the aim of improving the planning of literacy activities and increasing their efficiency.
4.5 In this respect, the problems of functional illiteracy are worth examining. This more subtle and less familiar aspect of illiteracy - the inability to read and write well enough to participate in the everyday work of a complex society - seems to be on the increase in some developed countries. Furthermore, it is fairly evident that for the problem of illiteracy, in all its numerous aspects, the question of the motivation of the learner is of crucial importance when
546     considering the provision of the minimal educational service required. How can 10 society best contribute to the initial and continued motivation of people for learning to read and write? This basic question has a pedagogical as well as a socio-economic side, and both are important. Unesco should help us to arrive at a deeper understanding of this great problem, which is of concern to us all. Finally, it is essential that the problem of illiteracy be viewed in a wider context, taking due account of mass communication as one important means oETon- tributing to its eradication.
4.6 With respect to educational structures, my government attaches great im- portance to the construction of a coherent educational system. A closer relation- ship and closer co-operation must be established between formal and non-formal education, the possibilities for transfer between levels and types of education should be improved and the connection between education and the world of work strengthened.| When these functions of the educational system are emphasized in the education policy of a government; it is logical that the upper secondary stage of school education should be given a certain priority in the development work of the country concerned, as well as the search for new methods and techniques - especially those that have proved their value in non-formal or adult education. In my country, plans are being worked out and experiments carried out to this end. With respect to the links between education and the world of work, the necessity for our respective Member States to co-operate and exchange information is parti- cularly important. It is probably appropriate to organize such co-operation on a regional or subregional basis. At the Regional Conference of Ministers of Educa- tion of Member States of the Europe Region, held in Sofia last June, this area was a top priority concern. The Conference adopted a recommendation on education and the world of work in which, inter alia, it was recommended that the Member States "assist by all possible means the effort to find ways of enhancing the effectiveness and quality of education, ensuring in particular the best possible balance between general and vocationally oriented education /and/ take more active steps to introduce practical work into the teaching and education process for pupils and students in secondary and higher educational establishments".
4.7 Concerning the natural sciences and their application to development, I shall refer to the two objectives concerning mineral and energy resources and ocean and coastal marine systems. Hidden beneath the crust of the earth there are vast amounts of energy which, once harnessed, are going to be a great source of wealth for many nations. Iceland is a volcanic country with considerable geothermal resources, and during the last decade volcanic activity has been unusually lively. The latest eruption of an Icelandic volcano started on 17 August of this year. Although no irreparable catastrophe has occurred, some of these eruptions have endangered the life and health of people or of animal livestock, or have been extremely close to doing so. Conditions in Iceland are, in spite of the danger they present, favourable for increasing man's knowledge of this inexhaustible source of power, developing ways of predicting its behaviour and harnessing it For use while preventing hazards due to its activity.
4.8 We in Iceland take a great interest in the International Geological Research Programme sponsored and co-ordinated by Unesco. In this respect, the International Geological Correlation Programme (IGCP) merits special mention, as does research on the structure, composition and evolution of the earth's crust. I should like to express my government's support for this important programme.
4.9 As regards international co-operation in geothermal research and engineering in which Iceland plays an active role, permit me, Madam President, to inform this Conference that, in accordance with a formal agreement between the United Nations University and the National Energy Authority in Iceland, the latter now runs a postgraduate school in geothermal energy as an associated institution of the University. This international school started its work in May 1979, and operates a project-oriented training programme in geothermal energy exploration and production. The participants are young specialists, mainly from countries which are taking their first steps in harnessing this important resource. This activity enables our experts to share with representatives of the countries involved experience which has been acquired in Iceland in this important field over half a century. It is our hope that such co-operation may enable the coun- tries which possess geothermal resources to harness them earlier than they would otherwise be able to.
4.10 Perhaps we in Iceland are particularly interested in geology because of theo'natire of Our country. EI" even more evident that we are of necessity attracted to the research and monitoring of ocean and coastal marine systems. Iceland played an active part in the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea. The review of- international law and rules of conduct carried out by that conference calls for the far greater responsibility of coastal States in administering oceanographic research, organizing the rational use of the resources
547   of the sea, and preventing marine pollution. Iceland recognizes the vital import- ance of the protection of the marine environment, and supports the Intergovern- mental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) in its struggle against marine pollution, especially its programme for Global Investigation of Pollution in the Marine En- vironment (GIPME). We should also like to express cur special support for two other co-operative IOC programmes, namely the Integrated Global Ocean Station Sys- tem (IGOSS) and the Training, Education and Mutual Assistance Programme (ТЕМА). Let me conclude these remarks about marine sciences by stressing the need for close co-ordination of Unesco's programmes in this field with the work of other co-operative organizations, especially the International Council for the Explora- tiont ofl thei Seal (ICES)
4.11 In the field of culture, Madam President, let me express special support for one of the themes under the objective of participation in cultural life, that is to say, the international dissemination of cultural works. We Icelanders have always been strong supporters of Unesco's programme of translation and publication of literary works. Unesco has long been striving to ensure the translation of representative literary works written in less-known languages into widely read languages and their publication as far as possible in inexpensive editions. This effort is to be commended, and we should welcome more adequate financial support for the programme. We also support the other proposed activities in the field of culture, and particularly the proposed action for the dissemination of the arts through publications.
4.12 Finally, Madam President, let me make a few remarks concerning Unesco's future work, remarks that are more relevant to the next Medium-Term Plan of our Organization than to our forthcoming triennial programme and budget. I shall deal successively with the concentration of our programme, the status of women, mass communication and the child.
4.13 The issue of concentrating Unesco's programme, in the reasoned belief that this will increase its impact, has long preoccupied Member States. At its twen- tieth session, the General Conference paid special attention to this problem, and adopted a resolution to this effect, on the understanding that the issue should be dealt with in depth when the second Medium-Term Plan was prepared. While re- cognizing that the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983 represents a first step in the right direction, I wish to reaffirm and re-emphasize the essential importance of programme concentration in establishing and implementing future biennial programmes.
4.14 The status of women and the participation of women in development is one of the objectives on which it seems to be rather easy to agree in words but which are difficult to achieve in practice. When such is the case, it may be appropriate to look into one's own heart and reflect whether far more radical measures might not perhaps be conducive to better results. It is a fact that the percentage of women in the Professional category of Unesco's staff showed no increase between
1977 and 1979. The importance of initiating some definite and irreversible devel- opment in this field is hereby reiterated in the firm belief that Unesco has here a leading role to play. In this connection, I should like to draw attention to the fact that in my country a woman was elected President of the Republic last June.
4.15 Madam President, at the last session of the General Conference we adopted a Declaration on the Mass Media, and we are now considering the proposals of the International Commission for the Study of Communication Problems. As stated by my country's delegation at the last session, it is essential that all measures adopted, and action undertaken, respect the fundamental freedom of expression of the mass media, and attract as much active involvement as possible on the part of those responsible for the functioning of the mass media throughout the world. When striving for a new and more balanced international communication order, pro- grammes agreed within Unesco must focus on constructive questions of communication development based on the freedom of the press. The work of our Organization in this field should be a long-term, constant endeavour.
4.16 After so many years of focusing our attention on procedures for educating or teaching children, it is with great satisfaction that we note the increased importance attached to the child as such in the draft programme and budget. It is true, however, that the activities proposed are modest. But the possibility that this indicates a crucial shift in emphasis which could deeply affect our future programmes may be more important. This new emphasis should be duly taken into account in the preparation of the next Medium-Term Plan.
4.17 In conclusion, Madam President, I should like to state that my government wishes to emphasize that in our turbulent world Unesco has a unique and irreplace- able function, and that it fully supports Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow in his important and difficult task as Director-General of this great Organization. Thank you, Madam President.
(6.1) Mr ZAHIR (Maldives) (Translation from the Arabic): Madam President, Mr Director-General of Unesco, Excellencies, Ministers of Education of Member States represented at this General Conference, distinguished delegates, it gives me great pleasure to meet with you and to address you on behalf of the Republic of Maldives at this great international assembly. I offer my congratulations to Dr Ivo Margan on his election to the Presidency of this session of the General Conference of Unesco, and I wish him all success in conducting it. We are confident that this session will achieve its objectives under his presidency, and we shall work together in further- ance of that goal and to adopt the necessary resolutions which concern us all as members of this world organization.
(6.2) Madam President, it gives me great pleasure to convey to this friendly country of Yugoslavia, greetings from the people and Government of Maldives. We are bound to    Yugoslavia by ties of the best kind. Yugoslavia and its great people are providing the Third World with movement and activity in political fields, particularly the movement of non-alignment.in the second half of this century. We are confident that the people and Government of Yugoslavia will follow the course set by their great leader, Tito, in providing the Third World with vitality and energy in all fields, so that we may con- tinue to draw strength and determination from the spirit of this great man who is now gone. We also wish the people of Yugoslavia continued progress and prosperity. The Republic of Maldives, gentlemen, is a member of the non-aligned group of Third World nations and believes in the principles and bases of the Non-Aligned Movement concerning the preservation of peace and security in the world, on the ground that therein lies advantage for all mankind. The Republic of Maldives also believes in truth and justice and equality, between states and between individuals, with no distinction as to colour, and no superiority of one race over another.
(6.3) It gives me great pleasure also to congratulate the Director-General of Unesco on his election to a second term of office. We have full confidence in his wise management. I am quite certain that his service and his management of this Organization will be a success, and that he will surmount the problems faced by the developing countries with regard to the dissemination of culture and science.
(6.4) Madam President, the Republic of Maldives is a developing state which believes that the problems of the contemporary world must be solved by the intelligence of con- temporary man, and by a mutual understanding between peoples which will preserve the dignity, security and sovereignty of all states, large or small, rich or poor, because human civilization has proved in the course of its history that the domination of small states by large ones, the domination of poor states by rich ones, and the exploitation of weak states by strong ones, lead to endless conflicts. We have come to live in a world full of various economic, political and social problems, and these problems must be solved by peaceful means, through mutual international understanding.
(6.5) The Republic of Maldives supports the world mission of this Organization, and believes that we shall all raise the banner of security and peace, through this session of the General Conference, and that of knowledge, science and culture. Maldives accord- ingly supports Unesco's participation in action to establish peace, strengthen and but- tress human rights, and eliminate colonialism and racism.
(6.6) Similarly, we support the Organization in its efforts to establish a new inter- national economic order, one which will guarantee economic and social freedom for all.
(6.7) Maldives joins the ranks of those who are in favour of a halt to the arms race and a transition to the disarmament stage, laying down the weapons that are so destructive to mankind. In this respect, Madam President, our position is clear with regard to the arms race in our region, the Indian Ocean region, and Maldives demands that that region be a region of peace and security.
(6.8) Madam President, we believe in providing access to education for every one of our people on a basis of equality, and Maldives is endeavouring to expand its educational infrastructure to the maximum extent feasible. It is appropriate at this point to mention that we face a problem: our means and resources are not adequate to enable us to secure and train the leaders we require in order to get the country moving.
(6.9) The Maldives Government has concerned itself with the educational and cultural fields in the interests of the advancement of the Maldivian individual. Our government has set up agencies and councils concerned with the promotion of various aspects of education and culture. By way of example, we have created a council on culture, litera- ture and history, and another council on youth. There is also a special council to improve the situation of women. I believe that the development of these sectors will require much expertise and experimentation, and a variety of international studies. With regard to the field of education, we are concerning ourselves with the first step, with the initial stages of the elementary level, and the matter of their extension to every one of our people. We must cope with the difficulty of internal transport and communications between our islands, of which there are over 1,000. We have made a begin- ning with adult education and a campaign to eradicate illiteracy among our people. The government's concern with education goes beyond planning: it also takes the form of concrete expenditures. Twelve per cent of the state budget for the fiscal year was devoted to education and associated services. It may be worth mentioning that this pro- portion occupies a leading position among the government's expenditures for this year.
(6.10) Madam President, the international organization known as Unesco has been helping Maldives through experts in various aspects of education for the past five years. We became a member of the Organization as recently as last July; now that we have done so, we expect to benefit from the development of educational programmes and the extension of their fields of application within Maldives. We are trying hard to overcome the educational problems which we face as a developing country with limited resources, especially since the Government is seeking simultaneously to promote the various aspects of education and to broaden the educational base both quantitatively and qualitatively, and in respect of both planning and training.
(6.11) Madam President, Maldives believes in the effective role of Unesco in the fields of education, science and culture. We regard this Organization as a sort of world mind serving to provide the world with science, education and culture. For this reason, this world organization must have the last word in matters pertaining to civilization and the human heritage. For this reason, it must direct the attention of world opinion to all movements which distort and disfigure human civilization and the human heritage any- where in the world in this modern age. The Republic of Maldives considers that the activities undertaken by Israel in the occupied Arab territories, disfiguring the culture    of the land and replacing its heritage of history, civilization and culture with another, amount to a hideous distortion and corruption of the genuine culture and civilization of the people of the land. The Republic of Maldives condemns in the strongest terms the effort to alter the character of the Arab and Islamic city of Jerusalem and make it all Jewish, and both the stealthy and overt attempts that are being made to erase the charac- teristic features of the city of Jerusalem, for this is nothing but a perversion and alteration of the roots of the city's Arab and Islamic civilization.
(6.12) That very area, in the course of the ages, was one of tolerance and peaceful co- existence during successive periods in its Arab and Islamic history, ever since the be- ginning of the Islamic era. In our time, however, a bloody conflict is taking place there, one which may be regarded as the greatest calamity of this age, the last quarter of the twentieth century. Maldives demands that Israel withdraw immediately from the occupied Arab territories, including Jerusalem, unreservedly and unconditionally. We consider that the Jewish movement to make the city of Jerusalem all Jewish has dimensions and dangers which are not confined to the Holy City alone, but extend to the effort to make the land of Palestine and other parts of that region all Jewish, which will lead ultimately to the obliteration of the culture of the people of that region, the extinction of their community and the extirpation of roots of their civilization and their heritage.
(6.13) Madam President, the Republic of Maldives wishes to benefit from the expertise of other countries and international organizations in order to develop our country in all fields. The blessings of mankind must be shared by all. There should be no barriers to securing them, and they should not be dispensed through intermediaries, but in accord- ance with the wishes, needs and circumstances of the states concerned. Furthermore, international co-operation in the task of helping countries to benefit from human ex- perience and expertise must spring from the needs of the countries themselves, whose people and governments are more familiar with those needs than any visiting outsider. Accordingly, it is necessary to look again at the technical advisory co-operation of all international bodies, beginning with Unesco. The approach to which I have just re- ferred may be part of the principles and policy of Unesco, but the task of implementation calls for individuals who are experts in various matters, and who are satisfied with the work and the projects which they undertake.
(6.14) In addition, no study of development projects and plans is adequate unless the countries concerned are associated with it, with the people of those countries being fully informed about all stages as they are successively carried out. Reports are not to be regarded as satisfactory on the basis of their bulk and the number of their pages alone. On the contrary, a study of projects and their potential is to be regarded as the begin- ning of the technical co-operation phase, and requires the collaboration of the two parties, local and international, from the very beginning of the initial phase.
(6.15) With respect to the second point concerning technical advisory co-operation on the part of international agencies, I must stress the fact that there is some difficulty in intergovernmental liaison, and this may lead to tangles of many administrative bodies or a multiplicity of specialists in countless numbers of bureaux. Sometimes, too, com- munications difficulties result in the impression that the mere sending of the initial reports is felt to be sufficient, and there is not enough concern with the subsequent follow-up. At other times communications problems result in the specialists being insufficiently concerned with the projects with which the states in question are concerned. A further difficulty - and not the last - is the carrying out of great numbers of studies and the sending of numerous missions in connection with a single project, and this is turn leads to the proliferation of studies, estimates, plans and designs. In the end blame for the slow pace of progress or non-implementation falls on one of the two parties, although there is no way to determine which party is really responsible for the situation. At all events, Madam President, we expect continued improvement in the area of international co-operation, and in the benefits to be derived from the experience of international development agencies.
(6.16) To conclude these remarks, Madam President, I should like to wish this Conference every success in adopting resolutions which are relevant for the entire world, and to hope that this international organization can play an effective and positive role in the preservation of human civilization and the human cultural and scientific heritage in a world providing security and peace for all mankind. Thank You ali (Mr Margan took the Chair) The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Maldives delegation, and I give the floor toHE, ‘Mr Daced Joesoef, Minister of Education and Culture of Indonesia and head ofthe Indonesian delegation.
8.1 Mr JOESOEF (Indonesia): Mr President, Mr Director-General, your excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me first of all, on behalf of the Indonesian delegation, to convey to you, Mr President, my congratulations upon your election as President of the twenty- first session of the General Conference. Your knowledge and experience, and most of all your personal devotion to this important and vital domain of human endeavour, assure us of the success of this session.
8.2 To the outgoing President, I wish to express my delegation's respect and appreciation for his guidance during the past two years. I should also like to take this opportunity to express my sincere appreciation to the Director-General    of Unesco for his leadership and to the Unesco Secretariat for their usual ex- cellent background documents. Allow me too to welcome with pleasure the admission of the new Member States, Botswana, Dominica, Equatorial Guinea, Maldives, St. Lucia, Sao Tome and Principe, Tonga and Zimbabwe to this Organization. To the Yugoslav Government and people we express our highest appreciation of their invitation to host this Conference in such beautiful surroundings and the excellent arrangements made for it.
8.3 Upon entering this decade of the 1980s, we are faced with world conditions that are uncertain in many ways, full of challenges and containing every sort GE possibility. While in the last decade the world was given hope by the reduction of tensions between the great powers, recently the world has again felt the threat of the Cold War. All kinds of tensions and conflicts seem to have emerged sudden- ly and simultaneously in various areas invoking the chilly possibility of an explosive situation which could lead to war. The world feels insecure. What makes us most concerned is that the arena of struggle for influence among the great powers is shifting to the territories of the developing countries - in various parts of Africa, in the Middle East, in Western Asia and in South-East Asia. It is our firm belief that Unesco should play a significant role within its sphere of competence in lessening international tensions and enhancing peace and international understanding.
8.4 The world economic situation during the decade ahead of us also appears to be gloomy and uncertain in every respect. The world economy is suffering from a number of different diseases at the same time: a low rate of economic growth, a high rate of inflation and rising unemployment everywhere. The world has to be aware of the various crises that shake the foundations of its economy and monetary system, which are not merely temporary matters as was previously thought. The foundations shake because the structure of this old order of the world economy is based on injustice. Every country in the world ought to be conscious of this, and no longer put off attempts to bring a new international economic order into being. While efforts have indeed been made before, results are extremely slow and are not fundamental in nature. The well-known North-South dialogue has only yielded limited results. We are of the opinion that healthy world economic stabi- lity based on world economic justice will materialize if fundamental structural changes are made in international economic relations.
8.5 There are still many more problems of the world economy that we are facing for which no signs of solution have yet appeared. The world economy has even suffered a decline in efforts to establish proper relations between the developing countries and the industrial countries lately. This involves increasing symptoms of protectionism among some industrial countries with the result that it puts a squeeze on the activities of the world economy. In this context, if we agree to promote international, regional or subregional co-operation, the desire to estab- lish a new international economic order must really be an absolute guide for all of us. Because, essentially, developments in education, science and technology, culture and communication depend a great deal on the economic system of individual countries, as well as on international, regional and subregional economic orders.
8.6 With regard to the Introduction to the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-
1983 allow me on behalf of the Indonesian delegation to congratulate the Director- General and the Secretariat of Unesco on a job well done. In general, we could agree with the priorities suggested for each sector. The activities envisaged are generally acceptable because they seem to be based on their relevance to world problems, while placing emphasis on assistance to the developing countries and maintaining some balance between reflective thinking and operational activities. However, allow me to dwell on some important aspects of the proposed programme for the various sectors.
8.7 As regards education and the proposed programmes for literacy, the problems faced by the developing countries are in general caused by the population explosion. Educational problems are a consequence of that explosion. The development of the educational system in the developing countries does not keep pace with population growth. Consequently, more and more children do not have access to schools. The number of illiterates increases. With this in mind, the Indonesian delegation sincerely welcomed the Mexico Declaration which appealed to Member States to com- bat "extreme poverty by using all available resources and means to ensure the general introduction of complete primary or basic education for all children of school age, to eliminate illiteracy...".
8.8 At present, the attendance rate at the primary level in Indonesia is approx- imately 93.7 per cent of the 7-12 year-olds enrolled in various types of primary education institutions. It is expected that in 1983-1984 primary education insti- tutions will be able to accommodate all of the 7-12 year-old primary school age group. In combating illiteracy my government has experimented with "Small Schools" which are meant for school-age children living in remote and sparsely populated
553    areas. With the "Small School" system, we always try to adapt the size of the school and the classroom as well as the type of teaching to the population growth rate and the population density.
8.9 Therefore, the "Small Schools" will later have different forms, including one-teacher schools, two-teacher schools and so on. In the "Small Schools", the "multi-grade" or "multi-classroom" system will naturally be applied. The Indonesian delegation would welcome an exchange of experience on such "multi-grade" or "multi-classroom" systems.
8.10 With regard to general science and technology education, the Indonesian delegation is in agreement with the proposed programme. With a biennial growth rate of 13.1 per cent or about twice the rate envisaged in the Medium-Term Plan, the programme provides for an intensification of action to increase national capabilities in science and technology education to improve the quality of that education. In most instances, the progress of science and technology and their application to development call for far-reaching changes in the direction taken by educational systems, combining the need for education to be deeply rooted in the national culture and the need for the teaching of science and technology, particularly in the basic sciences, to make it possible to encourage talents and foster vocations in a given environment while respecting the values of the society involved and stimulating the scientific approach.
8.11 In the matter of special education, we support the formulation of a long- range programme to be incorporated in the Medium-Term Plan and propose a substantial increase in the financial resources to be provided for the programme for handicapped children in future programmes. Special education for both the mentally disturbed and the physically handicapped should be an integral part of the equality of edu- cational opportunity programmes. These programmes should be developed both in terms of special education and in terms of integrated educational programmes, where the handicapped pupils can participate in regular schools. The development of screening methods and teaching and learning methods should be further explored. As to the activities concerning the status of women and participation by women in development, our delegation would like to say that many countries already possess either specific laws protecting the rights of women or laws that include women's rightful participation automatically. What in fact is lacking in many cases, in my opinion, is the awareness of the women themselves about the existence of such laws and their legal rights. Programmes to instruct women in their rights would therefore be useful.
8.12 The activities proposed for the science sector, drawing on the increasing awareness in most developing countries of the underlying interactions between science, technology, development and society, seem in general to be consistent with the intended effective contribution of Unesco to the implementation of the policy recommendations of the UNCSTD Conference in Vienna. In this connection, the proposed eight major regional projects for the application of science and technology could, on account of their integrated character, be considered as a fundamental approach towards the establishment and strengthening of endogenous scientific and technological capabilities in specific fields while incorporating interdisciplinary co-operation between specialists in the natural sciences, human sciences and socio-economic sciences.
8.13 It has been observed that the 25 per cent of mankind that happen to live in the developed countries master 90 per cent of all known science and technology and consequently enjoy 75 per cent of all the material goods of the world. We all realize that science and technology lie at the roots of the international economy. International trade and economic relations no longer exist because of complementarities in needs, but because of parallelisms in the growth of science and technology. In the international economy, many commercial materials and trade activities are a product of science and technology. Underdeveloped and developing countries will therefore remain even more backward if they are not capable of competing in the arena of science and technology development.
8.14 For this purpose, we must immediately take measures conducive to the crea- tion of a learning society. I would also suggest, on behalf of the Indonesian delegation, that Unesco pay greater attention to development programmes that are oriented towards such an end. This is one of the main investments in development, and of course in the development of science and technology.
8.15 Mr President, the social sciences as a field of endeavour encompass a vast domain, comprising the phenomena of man and society, of structure and behaviour, of technology and of action. Because of their great scope, the development of the social sciences tends to be rather slow, for their infrastructure needs to be built gradually. The recruitment of capable instructors takes years. Due to the imbalance in and scarcity of manpower as a result of competition between the attractive and the less attractive social sciences, many institutions lack the          talent needed to explore, tackle and solve the social problems faced by the developing countries. This, in turn, leads to unnecessary dependence on help from outside which often exacerbates the frustration due to different cultural outlooks and to misunderstanding of the social and ecological environment.
8.16 Hence, I welcome Unesco's programme for the development of the social sciences, especially Objective 3.3 - Contribution to the development or infrastrue- tures and programmes in the social sciences with a view to increasing the different societies" ability to find ways of solving social and human problems.
8.17 The study of development as a subfield of the social sciences has many con- fusing points. Often the yardsticks we use differ from country to country, where- as a global multidisciplinary interpretation of development is needed ifiwe are to reach a common understanding of the meaning of development, to grasp its com- plexities and to understand the interrelations between the complex social phen- omena that constitute development itself. We should explore the more abstract and reflective thinking that is rooted in cultural milieux and values and endeavour to understand the general laws of the development process. In the final analysis, development is not a matter of each country's capacity to build bridges and high- ways, but a question of how much harmony there is between man and himself, between man and nature, between man and society and between man and his Creator. Develop- ment per se does not necessarily bring about social and psychological harmony; on the contrary, it is often responsible for upsetting social and psychological well-being.
8.18 Mr President, allow me to say a few words on youth programmes. My govern- ment has had concrete evidence of the importance and usefulness of Unesco's pro- gramme in the field of youth, and we wholeheartedly support the programme and budget proposed under the relevant objectives in document 21 C/5, finding them to be well balanced, imaginative and of practical use to Member States. In this con- nection, and drawing on the experience of my own government, I want to emphasize the following point. Youth activities are a concern of many agencies in Indonesia, both governmental and non-governmental, and this is as it should be since the problems and aspirations of young people are manifold and diverse. Nevertheless - and this is the point I want to stress, Mr President - it is absolutely necessary that the various structures concerned with youth be co-ordinated by and receive inspiring leadership from a strong central unit. In Indonesia, for instance, this unit is the Office of the Associate Minister of Youth Affairs while in Unesco it is the Youth Division, and it is of great importance that this Division be pro- vided with sufficient staff and resources to play an increasingly important role, particularly in launching and implementing operational activities of direct benefit to interested Member States.
8.19 Mr President, it is encouraging to learn from the debates during the
109th session of the Executive Board that there is general agreement concerning the value and intrinsic coherence of the culture and communication sector. Cul- ture and communication clearly constitute a vast field; it is not surprising, therefore, that the separation of the two elements is deemed by many to be desirable. The Indonesian delegation endorses the Director-General's statement in the Introduction to document 21 C/5 that this issue should not be considered hastily but that sufficient time should be allowed for further data on the mana- gerial and budgetary aspects of the question to be assembled.
8.20 With regard to the preservation and presentation of the cultural and natural heritage in connection with Objective 7.6, my delegation would like to express its appreciation of the positive result of the Conference on the return of cul- tural property to its countries of origin. This matter is of considerable interest to my country, and we would like to learn from as well as to share our experience with others, not only in building up an international network but also in improving on our bilateral agreements.
8.21 In the context of the same objective, we are pleased to see the attention paid by Unesco to the development of infrastructures and training programmes for” the preservation and presentation of the cultural heritage, and particularly the efforts to strengthen national and regional training institutions, in which the South-East Asian Ministers of Education Organization will participate. With*in- ternational assistance, the restoration of the Temple of Borobudur will be com- pleted by 1982. The ecological restoration of the site has already begun, with an initial fund of US $16 million.
8.22 In the field of communication, Indonesia would like to develop an information clearing-house or data bank to collect, collate and store. In addition, we hope to develop communication research capability in the region. For this purpose, fellowships for the training of communication researchers are needed.
8.23 Mr President, as a final point, I would like to state that, to enable the Director-General to implement the proposed programme, we fully support the proposed budget ceiling of US $625,374,000, on the understanding that it may be adjusted to currency fluctuations.
8.24 In closing, permit me to say a few words of appreciation for the excellent leadership of the Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, to whom we have unani- mously entrusted the guidance of our Organization for the next seven years. As has been frequently stated by earlier speakers, this coming decade will be full of challenges and deep uncertainties, and the leadership of this Organization will have to be fully endowed with wisdom and vision. We are all aware that these qualities are fully possessed by the Director-General. May God bless him in his efforts to fulfil his duties. Thank you for your attention.
9. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Indonesian delegation, and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Edouard Zodéhougan, Minister of Secondary General, Technical and Vocation- al Education of Benin, Chairman of the National Commission of Benin for Unesco and head of the Benin delegation.
10.1 M. ZODEHOUGAN (Bénin) .- Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, Honorables délégués, permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, de me joindre A tous ceux qui m'ont précédé pour vous féliciter de votre si brillante élection à la présidence de cette session de la Conférence générale qui d'ores et déjà apparaît comme histo- rique à maints égards.
10.2 Pour la première fois, notre Conférence générale se tient dans un pays socia- liste et pour la première fois aussi, elle adoptera un programme de trois ans et votera un budget pour trois ans, tout cela dans un contexte international diffi- cile : en effet, sous prétexte de l'augmentation par l'OPEP du prix du pétrole, les pays capitalistes développés ont créé et perpétuent la crise et le chômage pour mettre au pas les travailleurs et les forces de progrès. Et dans le même but, on ne cesse d'évoquer les risques d'une troisième Guerre mondiale qu'on ne semble rien faire pour éviter. Au contraire, faisant d'une pierre deux coups, on se rem- plit les poches dans l'industrie des engins de mort tout en cherchant à faire peur aux travailleurs exploités et à empêcher leur indispensable unité.
10.3 Tout ceci vise à faire peur aux pays et aux peuples démunis qui crient jus- tice et qu'on pense avoir calmés par de simples déclarations sur le nouvel ordre économique international et par d'interminables et stériles conférences Nord-Sud, sans compter la Conférence des Nations Unies sur le commerce et le développement ou les décennies du développement dont tout le monde connaît maintenant les résultats.
10.4 Le développement du Tiers Monde et le rétablissement des équilibres dans les principaux domaines, voilä l'horizon indépassable de notre temps. La paix du monde est à cette condition.
10.5 Il est heureux que notre Organisation ait décidé, surtout depuis la désigna- tion de M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow au poste de directeur général, de situer son action dans cette optique et bon nombre d'objectifs du Plan äà moyen terme reflètent cette préoccupation majeure, qu'il s'agisse des droits de l'homme, de l'appréciation et du respect de l'identité culturelle, de la lutte contre l'analphabétisme, de la formation des personnels de l'éducation, du développement rural intégré, de la participation de la femme au développement, qu'il s'agisse de la science et de la société, de la recherche et de la formation scientifiques, des ressources miné- rales, énergétiques, hydrauliques, qu'il s'agisse enfin de la préservation et de la mise en valeur du patrimoine culturel et naturel, des infrastructures et de la formation dans le domaine de la communication et de tout ce qui se fait dans le cadre de la science et de la technologie autant que dans le cadre de la culture et de la communication.
10.6 Dans le domaine de l'éducation, nous sommes satisfaits de la manière dont les objectifs sont en voie d'être atteints, particulièrement l'objectif relatif aux droits de l'homme et à l'aide aux réfugiés et aux mouvements de libération nationale.
10.7 Il y a lieu ici de saluer encore une fois la victoire du peuple du Zimbabwe, conduit par le Front patriotique, sur tous les tenants du racisme et de l'exploita- tion de l'homme par l'homme en Afrique australe. Cependant, l'indépendance du Zim- babwe, si elle a comblé les voeux de millions de personnes dans le monde, n'a pas résolu définitivement le problème en Afrique australe, notamment en Afrique du Sud où quatre millions de Blancs racistes et fascistes, presqu'ouvertement portés à bout de bras par leurs maîtres occidentaux, se bercent encore d'illusions parce        qu'ils pensent que le fait d'être armés jusqu'aux dents et de pouvoir tirer pour un rien sur des foules innocentes maintiendra indéfiniment leur pouvoir sur 20 mil- lions de Noirs et de Métis.
10.8 Les armes ne peuvent rien contre un peuple décidé. Les peuples du Viet Nam ou du Nicaragua, pour ne citer qu'eux, ont démenti et réfuté cette soi-disant su- prématie des armes. L'opération de sensibilisation et d'information du monde en- tier par l'Unesco sur ce crime contre l'humanité qu'est l'apartheid doit continuer.
10.9 De même, l'action de l'Unesco contre l'analphabétisme et en faveur de la promotion de l'enseignement technique et professionnel et de la formation des per- sonnels de l'éducation - où l'Institut international de planification de l'éduca- tion joue un rôle irremplaçable sous la dynamique impulsion de son Directeur - mérite d'être soulignée. Tout devrait être mis en oeuvre pour que cet Institut double sa capacité et pour qu'il bénéficie directement des ressources nécessaires pour accorder automatiquement des bourses aux candidats retenus qui sont-7la-plu- part sans ressources. Mais notre représentant à la Commission chargée de 1'éduca- tion précisera en temps opportun nos observations.
10.10 Au chapitre Sciences exactes et naturelles et application de ces sciences au développement, l'événement majeur ces derniers temps est incontestablement la Conférence des Nations Unies sur la science et la technique au service du dévelop- pement, qui s'est tenue à Vienne en Autriche du 21 au 30 août 1979.
10.11 S'il est vrai que cette Conférence n'a pas tellement innové - ce qu'on a constaté en comparant ses résolutions et son plan d'action aux objectifs et pro- grammes de l'Unesco - nous ne pouvons manquer de saluer ce grand hommage rendu à la science et à la technologie au niveau mondial. De même nous saluons l'idée d'un fonds pour la science, le Fonds intérimaire, dont nous regrettons d'autant plus le trop lent développement.
10.12 Et puis cette Conférence a provoqué un déplacement d'accent majeur en fa- veur de la science dans notre Projet de programme et de budget. La science et la technologie, c'est-à-dire leur maîtrise, sont en effet deux des clés essentielles du progrès humain. Il est dès lors inadmissible que quelques pays continuent d'en monopoliser les ressorts essentiels, quitte d'ailleurs à en abuser pour orienter cette science et cette technologie vers l'armement, menaçant par là même le pro- grès humain qu'elles sont censées servir. C'est pourquoi nous pouvons ajouter que le Congrès mondial sur l'éducation pour le désarmement qui a eu lieu à la Maison de l'Unesco à Paris du 9 au 13 juin 1980 a été une initiative très heureuse et aussi un pendant indispensable de la Conférence de Vienne sur la science et la technique.
10.13 La Conférence de Vienne a aussi révélé une fâcheuse tendance de l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies à créer une certaine confusion dans les domaines de compétence de l'Unesco. On a eu l'impression, ici et ailleurs, que les domaines de l'éducation, de la science, de la culture et de la communication qui sont statutai- rement ceux de l'Unesco, peuvent non seulement être contestés à cette Organisa- tion, mais aussi donner lieu à la création par l'ONU d'organismes nouveaux. Ainsi pour les communications, l'Assemblée générale n'attribue à l'Unesco qu'un rôle "central et important", se réservant le rôle "primordial". Si cette tendance conti- nuait, elle sonnerait le glas de l'Unesco, car après la création d'un organisme sur la science, on en créerait un autre pour la culture, et ainsi de suite.
10.14 La Conférence générale de l'Unesco est l'organe suprême de cette institu- tion. Ce sont les Etats membres qui y participent qui décident en toute souverai- neté des grandes orientations, des objectifs à poursuivre et des programmes à réa- liser. Il nous a semblé nécessaire de le rappeler.
10.15 En ce qui concerne les sciences sociales, nous appuyons les parties du pro- gramme relatives à l'étude et à la planification du développement, à la condition de la femme et à sa participation au développement, et au rôle de la jeunesse.
10.16 Mais nous ne sommes pas sûrs que la meilleure place soit faite à la philo- sophie, un peu oubliée dans les sciences sociales. La philosophie, cet instrument d'analyse critique par excellence est l'ennemie jurée des pouvoirs installés, des "establishments" naturellement conservateurs et jaloux de leur pouvoir absolu pour ne pas dire tyranique.
10.17 A l'heure du vingtième anniversaire de notre indépendance et à l'heure du bilan qui s'impose à cette occasion, nous avons besoin des moyens de réflexion critique de la philosophie pour faire notre autocritique, réparer nos erreurs et repartir d'un meilleur pied. Beaucoup de nos économies sont en difficulté et des faillites pourraient se succéder en cascade, ce qui entraînerait une aliénation de    notre indépendance et nous contraindrait à subir les diktats des pays prêteurs et des organismes internationaux de financement où:les puissances occidentales font lasioi.
10.18 C'est peut-être trop attendre de la philosophie que de lui demander tout cela. Mais il faut lui donner sa chance soit en créant un secteur qui en soit chargé, soit en transformant le chapitre 3, actuellement intitulé "Sciences so- ciales et applications de ces sciences" en "Sciences sociales et philosophie".
10.19 Le chapitre consacré à la culture et à la communication a beaucoup retenu notre attention. Ainsi, dans le cadre de l'objectif 1.2 - Appréciation et respect de l'identité culturelle, nous avons eu le grand bonheur de voir paraître les deux premiers volumes de l'Histoire générale de l'Afrique, oeuvre titanesque réalisée en grande partie par les historiens de ces mêmes peuples africains que les Hegel ou Toynbee traitaient comme non historiques ou ayant à peine une histoire digne de ce nom. Eclatante revanche que nous devons à la lucidité, à la persévérance et à la ténacité de l'Unesco.
10.20 Apres cette Histoire générale de l'Afrique, l'histoire de notre continent ne sera plus jamais comme avant, c'est-à-dire une entité qu'on néglige parce que non basée sur l'écriture... Un autre aspect très positif, c'est que la préparation de cette Histoire générale de l'Afrique a donné lieu à la publication du Guide des sources de l'Histoire de l'Afrique et à la parution de la série "Etudes et docu- ments” - Histoire générale de l'Afrique, sans compter que les résultats des re- cherches menées dans le cadre de cette Histoire générale de l'Afrique, qui portent sur des thèmes ayant fait l'objet de réunions et colloques intitulés "Méthodologie de l'Histoire de l'Afrique contemporaine", "L'Afrique dans la Deuxième Guerre mon- diale", "Relations historiques et socioculturelles entre le monde arabe et l'Afrique noire", seront aussi publiés.
10.21 Enfin, le "Plan décennal pour l'étude systématique de la tradition orale et la promotion des langues africaines comme véhicules de culture et instrument d'édu- cation permanente" devra être développé. Nous comptons sur ce Plan, qui donnera lieu à une évaluation en 1983, pour intensifier la promotion des langues natio- nales et locales d'Afrique et la collecte de la tradition orale. La République populaire du Bénin, avec son ambitieux programme d'alphabétisation, a bénéficié du concours de l'Unesco dans ce domaine. Mais ses moyens sont souvent restés modestes et nous pensons que l'Unesco devrait essayer, en faisant appel à des fonds extra- budgétaires, de réunir davantage de moyens, que les ressources de son budget ordinaire.
10.22 L'Unesco devra aussi lancer un projet majeur d'alphabétisation pour l'Afrique qui soit plus ambitieux que le Plan décennal ou son prolongement qu'est Horizon 2000. Nous considérons le Plan décennal et Horizon 2000 comme les étapes préparatoires à ce projet majeur, mais devrons-nous attendre l'an 2000 pour avoir aussi notre projet majeur ?
10.23 Dans le domaine de la communication, félicitons tout de suite le Directeur général des coups de maître qu'ont été : l'adoption en novembre 1978 de la Décla- ration sur les principes fondamentaux concernant la contribution des organes d'in- formation au renforcement de la paix et de la compréhension internationale, à la promotion des droits de l'homme et à la lutte contre le racisme, l'apartheid et l'incitation à la guerre ; la tenue, en avril 1980, de la Conférence intergouverne- mentale de coopération sur les activités, besoins et programmes relatifs au déve- loppement des communications et, en juillet 1980, de la Conférence intergouverne- mentale sur les politiques de la communication en Afrique ; la publication du rap- port de la Commission internationale d'étude des problèmes de la communication ou Commission MacBride.
10.24 Au total, la communication est devenue, notamment en ce qui concerne le progrès de l'éducation, l'implantation de la science et de la technologie, la créa- tion et la diffusion de la culture, un instrument essentiel de développement des sociétés et un moyen de coopération.
10.25 Ici comme dans le domaine des sciences, il s'agit de tout mettre en oeuvre pour aplanir, à l'échelle nationale et internationale, les obstacles et les désé- quilibres qui entravent la libre circulation de l'information, la diversité des modes de communication et la réciprocité des échanges, obstacles et déséquilibres qui retardent la réalisation des objectifs d'un nouvel ordre économique interna- tional véritable et d'un nouvel ordre mondial de l'information et de la communica- tion plus juste et plus efficace.
10.26 En Afrique, comme la Conférence intergouvernementale sur les politiques de la communication de Yaoundé l'a précisé dans sa Déclaration, "les structures de la communication obéissent encore souvent aux anciens schémas coloniaux et non aux besoins et aux aspirations des peuples d'Afrique". En Afrique, donc, les obstacles sont d'abord d'ordre structurel et idéologique.
10.27 La Déclaration de Yaoundé a donc raison de proclamer : "Nous sommes déter- minés à décoloniser nos structures. Nous sommes décidés aussi à assurer l'élargis- sement des possibilités de la communication sociale aux différents groupes so- ciaux, culturels, politiques et économiques qui constituent les couches des socié- tés africaines".
10.28 L'explosion technologique a, dans le domaine de la communication, partagé aussi le monde en nantis et en démunis. Aux premiers, les puissants émetteurs, les satellites de communication, les intéressants programmes de téléfilms, etc., et aux démunis de subir, de toujours subir.
10.29 Il est en effet plus facile en Afrique de capter France-Inter, ou son pro- longement Radio-Afrique n°1, la Voix de l'Amérique, la Deutsche Welle, la BBC, que la Voix de la révolution béninoise et les autres stations africaines encore sous- équipées. L'Afrique est bombardée, inondée d'informations qu'elle ne choisit pas et qu'elle ne contrôle pas.
10.30 La Déclaration de Yaoundé a ici aussi fait oeuvre de pionnier en préconi- sant que la grande priorité soit donnée à "l'élaboration de politiques nationales globales et intégrées en matière de culture et de communication, à la création et à l'extension des infrastructures pour l'échange des informations et pour la vie culturelle ainsi qu'à la production endogène de toutes sortes de messages et pro- duits culturels".
10.31 La Déclaration de Yaoundé marque un pas décisif dans la bonne direction. L'Afrique doit tout mettre en oeuvre pour que cette Déclaration ne reste pas un simple énoncé d'intentions.
10.32 Mais en dernier ressort, nous pouvons dire qu'aux grands problèmes de la communication, il faut les grands remèdes : il s'agira de trouver les moyens finan- ciers indispensables à la formation des spécialistes et à la création des infras- tructures. La création d'un mécanisme de consultation et d'un fonds abondamment pourvu comme l'a recommandée la Conférence qui s'est tenue en avril 1980 à Paris est une nécessité absolue.
10.33 Monsieur le Président, permettez-nous de faire maintenant quelques re- marques d'ordre général. Les visites du Directeur général sont pour lui d'excel- lentes occasions de se rendre compte par lui-même des réalités que vivent les popu- lations des Etats membres. On se plaint qu'il soit fréquemment absent de Paris mais on devrait se poser la question de savoir si nous voulons un Directeur géné- ral enfermé dans sa tour de verre à Paris ou un Directeur général enquêtant sur le terrain. N'oublions pas que, comme l'a dit avec raison un grand penseur contempo- rain : "qui n'a pas fait d'enquête n'a pas droit à la parole". Le Directeur géné- ral peut, quant à lui, être félicité d'avoir enquêté dans plus de 110 pays en six ans de mandat.
10.34 Pour notre part, nous nous souviendrons toujours avec plaisir de sa visite éclair de janvier 1976 et de l'escale qu'il a faite dans notre pays pour saluer le Président de la République le ler août 1980, à son retour de Yaoundé. Mais nous l'attendons pour une visite complète, amicale et fraternelle qui sera, nous l'espé- rons, pour bientôt.
10.35 La présentation du Projet de programme et de budget pour 1981-1983, docu- ment 21 C/5, témoigne d'un effort de concentration qui devra continuer. Ainsi les actions de programme passent de 715 dans le 20 C/5 à 512 dans le 21 C/5 qui couvre trois ans au lieu de deux. Quant aux thèmes, ils sont clairement libellés de même que les résultats attendus et les actions proposées. Nous invitons le Directeur général à continuer dans cette voie.
10.36 En ce qui concerne la décentralisation, il vaudrait mieux parler plutôt de déconcentration car le transrert, assez maigre à vrai dire, de pouvoirs vers les Bureaux régionaux, s'apparente plus à celle-ci qu'à celle-lä. C'est seulement quand les pouvoirs auront été en partie transférés à la base, c'est-à-dire aux commissions nationales, aux universités et aux institutions nationales que nous pourrons parler de décentralisation.
10.37 Le Directeur général promet de confier davantage de responsabilités aux commissions nationales dans le cadre de la Charte des commissions nationales. Nous en prenons note. Les responsabilités responsabilisent. Et c'est pourquoi nous sa- luons l'effort du Directeur général qui a fait ajouter à toutes les descriptions de postes d'experts une partie B intitulée : Responsabilité nationale du Projet.
10.38 A propos du Programme de participation, nous apprécions l'effort fait dans le 21 C/5 tant pour augmenter les crédits que pour simplifier les procédures. Ce Pro- gramme a visiblement du succès et il oriente dans une voie que le Directeur géné- ral fait bien de suivre : celle qui tend à dégager par tous les moyens, au besoin    par des suppressions radicales de postes, de réunions et de publications, des ressources supplémentaires pour faire participer directement l'Organisation, dans le cadre du programme ordinaire, aux efforts de développement des Etats membres.
10.39 L'effort accru qu'accomplit le Directeur général au niveau du programme ordinaire facilitera la recherche de ressources extrabudgétaires comme celles que pourrait allouer le Fonds spécial de l'OPEP, qui semble vraiment sous-utilisé, pour diverses raisons.
10.40 Nous voudrions terminer notre intervention en exprimant la satisfaction sans réserve que nous inspire le rôle qu'a joué M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, directeur général de l'Unesco, à la tête de notre Organisation ces six dernières années. En conséquence, mon gouvernement est très heureux, pour y avoir contribué, que M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow ait été reconduit dans ses fonctions de Directeur général de l'Unesco pour un nouveau mandat de sept ans et me charge de l'en féliciter cha- leureusement. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
11. "The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Benin delegation, and I give the floor to H.E. Dr Carlos TUnnermann Bernheim, Minister of Education of Nicaragua and head of the Nicaraguan delegation.
(12.1) Mr TUNNERMANN BERNHEIM (Nicaragua) (Translation from the Spanish): Mr President, distinguished delegates, this meeting of the General Conference of Unesco is particularly significant for Nicaragua, as it is the first time since we have been able fully to exercise our recently won freedom that we are attending this supreme world forum of education, science and culture.
(12.2) Very high was the price that my country had to pay in order to shed the burden of a long and shameful dictatorship that had lasted almost half a century: 40,000 dead, the country's major cities destroyed, and its production structures and incipient indus- trial development crushed. But out of the ashes of war there rises again a people determined to rebuild and to advance, a people which, led by the Sandinist National Liberation Frant (FSLN) has emerged victorious from one of the most bloody and unequal wars of liberation ever fought.
(12.3) Nicaragua is a small Central American country. In an area of little more than
180,000 square kilometres live approximately two and a half million Nicaraguans. I cannot say lived in peace, for fratricidal wars, invasions and insurrections have been a recur- ring feature of our drama-laden history. Although it is small, our territory is rich in agriculture and mineral resources, and is situated in a strategic geographical position that has always aroused the envy of larger nations. Pirates, corsairs, freebooters and interventionists have passed through our country in long cavalcades, and foreign interests have sparked off internal wars and allied themselves with the most reactionary sectors of our society, thereby helping to stifle all aspirations to freedom and dignity for our people. These are the keys to the history of Nicaragua.
(12.4) One example of the oppressive regimes that we have endured for decades is the Somoza dynasty, which we have just - on 19 July last year - succeeded in overthrowing. We say example, if that is the right word here, since that despotic regime bore all the characteristics of a veritable satrapy. Always ready to further the interests of its foreign bosses and to satisfy the inordinate greed for wealth of the Creole oligarchy, this deplorable regime ignored the basic needs of our people, violated their human rights, sapped the country's collective resources and defiled our sovereignty with its obsequious and servile obedience to the commands of imperialism.
(12.5) The dynastic regime left Nicaragua a sad and terrible heritage - economic, ecological, educational and cultural. Even the 1,600 million dollar balance of payments deficit, although an exorbitant amount for an extremely poor people, cannot be considered adequately to represent the extent of the pillage that we were made to suffer. We were the wretched of the earth, and in the short term could see no escape but the way of violence. We have an average life-expectancy of little more than fifty years, the diseases that accompany poverty are decimating our population, and our share of doctors and ancillary medical personnel has sunk to alarmingly low levels. We also have a high percentage of unemployment.
(12.6) “This is just one aspect of the state of affairs inherited by the National Recon- struction Government established by our Sandinist People's Revolution on 19 July 1979. This was the true turning-point of our history, the event that marked the beginning of our freedom and independence, the beginning of the New Nicaragua.
(12.7) In accordance with the fundamental principles of nationalism and of promoting the welfare of our people, the new government, guided by our vanguard, drew up a strategy which took the form of the nationalization of the banking, finance and insurance system. nationalization of foreign trade; land reform based on country properties confiscated from the Somoza clique; the introduction of a single national health system; and; in education, overhauling of the system in order to make it accessible to the people at large and to realize those values that our Revolution advocates.
(12.8) When our Revolution triumphed, the established education system was an irrelevant, disjointed and inefficient machine for domination, catering only for a minority. Inadequate educational coverage was compounded by the poor quality of the teaching, the unsuitability of the curricula and methods and defective teacher training, and, to complete the de- pressing picture of education under the last regime, which our people succeeded in over- throwing, one need only mention the high rate of illiteracy, which was the most striking symptom of our educational underdevelopment: 52.3 per cent of the population over the age of ten.
(12.9) This was the situation as we found it on 19 July 1979, the date of the victory of the people's insurrection. One of the greatest challenges facing the Sandinist Revolution would thus be to bring about a radical transformation of the education system: to effect a revolution in education and to make education an essential part of revolution. This has meant reassessment of the aims and objectives of education; revision of curricula and syllabuses; democratization of access to the education system and restructuring of its administration. In its first year the revolution has worked hard in the education sector to achieve the aim stated in the National Reconstruction Government's programme namely, to carry out "a radical reform of the objectives and content of Nicaraguan education, so as to make it a key factor in the humanizing transformation of Nicaraguan society and to steer it in a critical and liberating direction".
(12.10) Obviously, the New Nicaragua that we are striving to build calls for a new edu- cation whose aims and objectives should be consistent with the new values proclaimed by our Revolution. If our Revolution is setting out to build a society that is more just, humane, egaliterian and fraternal, then the objectives and philosophy of the country's education cannot be those of the past. They must correspond to the new values in order that education, in all its forms, may contribute effectively to producing the New Man who is to achieve them.
(12.11) One of the most far-reaching measures so far adopted has been to make all state education genuinely free of charge, from the pre-school to the higher education level - a crucial step in the democratization of access to education and equality of opportunity. This decision meant that the state would defray the full costs of education. The demo- cratizing effect of this measure, so closely bound up with the concept of the "social salary" a salary paid to those engaged in activities useful to society, which is promoted by our Revolution, made itself felt immediately at the beginning of the 1979-1980 academic year when there was a marked increase in enrolments at all levels.
(12.12) Concomitantly, the Revolution has helped to create several thousand new teaching posts. This effort to change and democratize education has been accompanied by a re- structuring of the administration of the educational system and of the Ministry of Educa- tion itself, through the establishment of eight educational regions and 16 local education authorities, so as to deal more effectively with the problems of each area of the country    and to take their specific circumstances into account when pursuing national education policies. Suffice it to say that the Sandinist People's Revolution, in the 13 months that it has governed the country, has trebled the education budget.
(12.13) However, without the slightest doubt, the most important action to be taken so far in the field of education, that which is doing most to put the desire to democratize education into action, and that in which our Sandinist People's Revolution finds its most practical expression, is the launching of our great National Literacy Campaign, perhaps the most outstanding programme that our Revolution has so far launched. The National Literacy Campaign, which began on 23 March 1980, less than a year after the victory of the Revolution, and which ended on 23 August of the same year, is the most important educational event in our history. Only a revolution could set itself such a gigantic task, designed to impart a new direction to our history, and make a real qualitative leap forward in the process of revolutionizing our society. Perhaps no other programme introduced by our Revolution has so captured the enthusiasm, imagination and spirit of self-sacrifice of our young people and the mass of the population, and the dedication of our teachers and technicians, as the National Literacy Campaign has done, since illiteracy is the first hurdle of underdevelopment that our Revolution has succeeded in overcoming. A massive public literacy campaign was always high on the list of priorities of our revolutionary vanguard. However, it was always quite clear, too, in the minds of our leaders, that it could only be embarked on once the Revolution had triumphed. We believe that a conscious political decision and the ethos that only a revolution can generate are indispensable prerequisites for the success of a literacy campaign on a grand scale.
(12.14) The National Literacy Campaign was thus the second major mass movement in Nicaragua. For the first time in our history, the entire urban population spilled across the countryside like a great mantle of light, illuminating hovels, huts and homesteads. A new kind of communication sprang up at the national level, fostered and implemented by fellow-countrymen who drew their strength from a social philosophy of liberation. The Revolution thus produced its own pedagogy. This political-cum educational experience was rewarding to both teachers and students of literacy. And now it will be the source from which teachers will derive further guidance and new teaching methods. It will be seen as the first attempt to define the characteristics of the New Nicaraguan, the future sons of Sandino, the New Man who proclaims our Revolution and who, thanks to the Literacy Campaign, first began to develop his abilities in the mountains of Nicaragua.
(12.15) We mobilized more than 100,000 literacy workers, in the People's Literacy Army, which consisted of young students who spread over the countryside; and in the Workers' Literacy Militia, the Red and Black Teachers' Brigades and the People's Literacy Con- tingents, who worked in the towns and among the urban population. This was an unprecedent- ea effort in Nicaragua, a campaign organized within the space of six months after the victory which carried the light of literacy, dignity, and an opportunity to take part in building our history to more than 400,000 Nicaraguans.
(12.16) It is right and fitting that we should acknowledge the help that the international community gave to our Campaign. In doing so, may I thank, on behalf of the people of Nicaragua, all the governments, institutions and individuals that lent us their generous co-operation. In particular, I should like to emphasize the outstanding collaboration of the Director-General of Unesco, Dr M'Bow, who, from the planning stage onwards, was eager to involve Unesco in our unique undertaking. The people of Nicaragua can never forget the worldwide appeal that the Director-General issued on 23 January 1980 on behalf of our Campaign, which he described as "an experiment of the greatest interest from the ethical and educational points of view". Thank you, Mr Director-General, thank you on behalf of the people of Sandino, for your appeal resulted in an upsurge of sympathy and co-operation in our task. I should also like to draw attention to, and give thanks for, the participation in our campaign of 1,200 Cuban teachers, 70 Spanish teachers, 40 Costa Rican teachers, 30 Dominican teachers and many other volunteers who came from almost all the countries of the world.
(12.17) This gigantic effort, made by an entire people who were mobilized for an educa- tional purpose, was crowned with success. On 23 August this year, towards the end of our Second War of Liberation, it was announced that we had succeeded in teaching 406,056 peo- ple to read and write in the space of five months, and had reduced the illiteracy rate from 50.3 per cent to 12.9 per cent. And on 8 September last, at an official ceremony held at Unesco House, our National Literacy Campaign received the accolade of the Nadezhda K. Krupskaya Prize 1980, awarded by the International Jury set up by Unesco, both for the scale of its educational achievements and for "having proclaimed the achieve- ment of universal literacy a measure essential to the reconstruction of the Nicaraguan nation", and for "having offered an enduring testament to the nobility of the human spirit through the exemplary devotion to duty of its volunteer teachers, more than 50 of whom have given their lives in the service of their compatriots".
(12.18) As a monument to the international solidarity that emerged in the course of our literacy Campaign, Nicaragua has arranged to establish a Literacy Museum, where our ex- periment will be set out in an orderly fashion for the benefit of any countries and institutions wishing to consult it and learn from it.
(12.19) The special circumstances that my country has known in the last two years have prompted me to give the General Conference a brief description of the action that the Nicaraguan people are taking to reconstruct and transform education, after the traumatic events of the war of liberation. Furthermore, I consider that our experiment in the field of literacy teaching may help to clarify thinking on this subject, which is one of those to be considered by the General Conference at the present session.
(12.20) Mr President: Allow me, now, to add a few remarks to the debate on the general policy of the Organization. First of all, I should like to refer to the Draft Programme    and Budget for 1981-1983. The delegation of Nicaragua, of which I am a spokesman, ex- tends its congratulations to the Director-General of Unesco and to his collaborators on the quality of the draft prepared and on the way in which it reflects the concern expressed by Member States with regard to priorities and methods of work. In this con- nection, we note with satisfaction the priority given to the expansion of activities relating to science and technology and their application to development; to the desire for concentration, in form and substance, that the programme exemplifies, thanks to improved co-ordination in the planning of activities and to the interdisciplinary approach; the marked reduction in the number of activities and themes, in favour of more far-reaching and sustained action in selected areas and an increase in the allocation of resources to such action; the inclusion of evaluation, reflection and prospection, in order to clarify the future development of the programme; and the regrouping of objectives, especially in the chapter on the social sciences. All this seems likely to help to increase the effect- iveness of the programme and hence the benefit that Member States will derive from it.
(12.21) In the field of Education, we are pleased to note a number of programme activi- ties that are closely wedded to Unesco's universal ethical vocation. Of these, we would single out the proposal to devote new and more forceful attention to literacy work, in order to help remove the stain of illiteracy from the record of humanity. It comes as a shock to realize that although the world illiteracy rate has fallen, the number of illiterates is steadily growing, and it is calculated that before the end of the century it may reach the 1,000 million mark unless man takes imaginative, energetic and major steps to prevent it. This appalling situation is a challenge to the entire international community and is one of those problems that, by virtue of their universality, call for co-ordinated action by all mankind, specifically through international organizations such as Unesco, which in seeking to eradicate such scourges does most to fulfil its raison d'être, its ethical purpose and its universal vocation, to which we have already referred. However, as the General Conference very properly pointed out at its twentieth session, the success of the battle against illiteracy depends on the political will of the Member States and on the mobilization of all available resources.
(12.22) The delegation of Nicaragua endorses the statements made by the Ministers of Education of Latin America and the Caribbean in the Mexico Declaration signed on
13 December 1979, concerning the need to adopt a decisive policy to eradicate illiteracy from our continent before the end of the century and to expand educational services for children and adults. In this connection, we very much welcome the inclusion in the programme of the major project, proposed by the Mexico City Conference, to banish ignorance from the region of Latin America and the Caribbean. We share the view expressed by the Director-General in his introduction to the programme to the effect that this major project should be a major activity in which the Organization's regular programme, ongoing operational projects and any other projects which may be approved would all be enlisted in support of the efforts made by the Member States, "so that the entire population of this part of the world may enjoy the right to education before the end of this century". We also concur with the opinion that the major project should be an intersectoral under- taking and should attribute considerable importance to the promotion of culture and the dissemination of the basic scientific knowledge and technologies needed to increase productivity and improve living conditions, particularly in rural areas. Because of the importance that our delegation attaches to the proposal to introduce such a major project, we are joint sponsors with the other Latin American and Caribbean countries represented at this Conference of a draft resolution intended to confer on this project the prominence among Unesco's activities that it deserves.
(12.23) We also note with satisfaction the intention to step up the action under way to increase national capacities for science and technology teaching, and to improve the quality of that teaching; the better co-ordination of activities related to technical and vocational education; the expansion of activities concerning the status of women and their participation in development; the strengthening of special education, with emphasis on catering for mentally and physically handicapped young people within regular educational structures; the proposals concerning adult education in the context of life- long education, these being of very great interest to my country, which has just set up a Ministerial Department of Adult Education to assume the major educational responsibi- lities of post-literacy work; the concept of integrated rural development, which should include the contribution of formal and non-formal education to the development of our rural areas, which have so far been most neglected; more ties between education and productive work as an aspect of educational policies, etc.
(12.24) With regard to the Science Sector, my country is aware of the strategic im- portance of science and technology in the struggle against underdevelopment and in the search for ways of consolidating our self-determination as nations. Scientific and technological dependence is one of the forms of dependence that do most to undermine this work. We therefore regard as indispensable the strongest possible support from Unesco for the efforts that are made by our countries to frame their own scientific and technological development policies, which should aim at enlightened and clear- sighted handling of the scientific-technological variable within a national scheme that is designed genuinely to promote the autonomous development of our countries. It is logical that the proposals for activities in the Science Sector should have been drawn up taking due account of Unesco's major contribution to the practical implementation of the guidelines and recommendations contained in the Programme of Action approved by the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development. The pro- posed activities, and especially the eight major regional projects, whose novelty resides in the way they all fit together, will enable Unesco to act as effectively as possible within the context created by the Vienna Conference, whose resolutions may prove in- effective if the role of the appropriate United Nations body - in this case Unesco itself - is diminished or not fully acknowledged.
(12.25) We applaud the proposed reorganization of the Social Science Programme on the basis of a limited number of major projects. It is implicit, as the Director-General
568    states, that this is the first stage of the general review that will have to be carried out with a view to the preparation of the Medium-Term Plan. The importance we attach to the social sciences in fostering awareness of the conditions that determine the under- development and dependence of our Third World countries moves us to lend our whole-hearted support to the ongoing measures for the development of these sciences and their applications.
(12.26) With regard to Culture and Communication, the delegation of Nicaragua wishes to voice its support for the activities under way to strengthen the concepts of cultural policy and cultural development stemming from the First Intergovernmental Conference on Cultural Policies, and the concepts of cultural identity and cultural pluralism which emerged from the subsequent regional conferences, and which have until now inspired Unesco's programme. My country is preparing with keen interest to participate in the Second In- tergovernmental Conference on Cultural Policies, which will be held in 1982: it will afford an opportunity to take stock of experience acquired and will also stimulate reflec- tion on the fundamental problems of culture in the world today and in the future.
(12,27) In the specific field of Communication, Nicaragua supports efforts to overcome the present situation of dependence on others for information in which most Third World countries live, and is encouraging the establishment of national communication policies. Similarly, we advocate a new world information and communication order which will get rid of the remaining traces of colonialism in this sphere, and we applaud the initiatives under way to achieve this; but it by no means follows that we are in favour of any res- trictions on the freedom of the press. We recently set up our own news agency: it will provide information on the achievements of our Sandinist People's Revolution and counter- act the news barrier set up by the transnational news agencies, which continually distort the truth about events in Nicaragua. Small countries which, by virtue of their dearly bought sovereignty and independence, dare to produce their own political answers to problems exclusively their own, are the ones which suffer most from these libellous cam- paigns, which confuse international public opinion, cause a cooling of friendships, diminish the possibility of co-operation and serve no purpose other than to pander to the dictates of imperialist interests.
(12.28) We support a New International Information Order, serving the purposes of a new international economic order, in opposition to all forms of domination and exploitation, and promoting fundamental human rights; promoting action to combat racism and apartheid, the strengthening of international understanding and peace, and attainment of the objec- tives of universal disarmament, and contributing to the cultural and spiritual develop- ment of the great majority. We believe that information is eminently the property of society, and not merely a commodity up for sale to the highest bidder. And for the countries of the Third World it is of supreme importance that the facts about any country should be broadcast without being filtered and contaminated by the more powerful nations. We shall be free to the extent that we are informed, and to the extent that we can supply adequate and objective information about our own circumstances. Our dele- gation proposes to support the proposal of the International Commission for the Study of Communication Problems to the effect that within the structures of Unesco an inter- national programme for the development of communication be set up, whose objectives would be those put forward in the Commission's report.
(12.29) Still on the subject of the Draft Programme and Budget, we support all the measures being taken to promote the decentralization of Unesco's work. To this end, we recommend strengthening the Offices of the Regional Co-ordinators, which should be equipped with the staff, materials and funds to enable them to perform their task as effectively as possible as personal representatives of the Director-General and of all sectors of the Secretariat.
(12.30) We are also in favour of strengthening the Regional Offices of Education, Science and Technology and Culture, and the Regional Centre for Higher Education in Latin America and the Caribbean, through steps to rationalize, co-ordinate and integrate the work of Unesco in Latin America and the Caribbean more effectively. In view of its special characteristics, we support the proposal to set up a subregional office in the Central American subregion, and we request the continuation of the Central American Educational Network Project, which has brought substantial benefits to the area.
(12.31) Finally, we welcome the increase in the funds allocated to the Participation Programme, today regarded as a means of implementing the Organization's programme by associating with it those activities of Member States that match the general outlines of the programme.
(12.32) Since the historic resolution of the United Nations General Assembly, adopted in 1974, whereby the Member States officially declared their joint determination to work for the swift establishment of a new international economic order, the international agencies, in striving to establish such a new international economic order, have added a new dimension to their activities. This is true of Unesco, which is endeavouring to steer its programme in the direction of that new order, convinced that this central aim and the new international development strategy confer a new dimension on international Co-operation. Nevertheless, the frustrating results of the last Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly, which was convened recently in order to discuss how that new international economic order might be established, reveal that for many indus- trialized countries this question is a merely rhetorical one.
(12.33) Unesco, as the "conscience of mankind", and as an Organization inspired by man's loftiest attributes, should redouble its efforts in the cause of peace; they should in- clude the promotion of human rights and the eradication of colonialism and racism, which are aberrations incompatible with human dignity. This task, to which Unesco is committed, and which is the embodiment of mankind's most noble ideals, is all the more significant in the face of the crisis that the world is now facing, the permanent danger of a nuclear
10 holocaust and the headlong arms race; these affect even the poor countries, which should not be dragged into any conflict between the superpowers. The sums of money that the world spends on instruments of war and slaughter are appalling, and beyond our wildest imaginings, while the greater part of mankind lives in wretched conditions and lacks the essential services of health, housing and education. For these reasons, the delega- tion of Nicaragua supports initiatives to strengthen Unesco's activities to promote peace among nations, détente, the movement towards disarmament, resistance to colonialism, neo-colonialism and hegemonism, and, lastly, resistance to all forms of oppression.
(12.34) Mr President: the delegation of Nicaragua congratulates you on your election to preside over this great assembly, and it wishes to hail with a brotherly, revolution- ary salute the noble people of Yugoslavia, who have welcomed us so hospitably. Nicaragua comes to this General Conference with emotion and pleasure, bearing aloft two recently won banners: that of our political revolution, which set us free and placed us once more in control of our destiny as an independent nation, and that of the cultural Revolu- tion, which delivered us from ignorance and bestowed on us greater dignity. Both of these were won by our people, not without major sacrifices. Now these banners bear the message to all peoples that we desire their friendship and that we believe in man, in peace and in the right of mankind to build a better world.
13: Me PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Nicaraguan delegation, and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Einar Fgrde, Minister of Education and Ecclesiastical Affairs of Norway, head of the Norwegian delegation.
14.1 Mr F@RDE (Norway) : Mr President, the Norwegian Government feels that Unesco has an important contribution to make towards the solution of the vast number of problems that mankind faces today. As one of the crucial independent agencies of the United Nations system, Unesco must play its part in combined global efforts to establish peace, to establish a new world economic order and to guarantee that at least the minimum needs of the underprivileged are met. Of course Unesco's contribution should be given within the Organization's fields of competence. Unesco should at least endeavour to ensure for all a share in human knowledge, and it should help countries, groups and individuals to participate effectively and meaningfully in the decision-making processes that concern them.
14.2 The problem of war and peace is seen by my government as the most pressing problem in the world today. Thirty-five years after the creation of the United Nations Organization - whose most important objective it is to work for peace - peace itself seems further away than ever. Although the world has witnessed spec- tacular developments in the fields of technology, science and education, millions of men, women and children are this very day suffering the agonies and consequen- ces of ceaseless wars. Wars have never stopped for a single year this century in one corner of the earth or another, and there is no accurate way of measuring how many human beings would survive an all-out nuclear war - even though every human being could be destroyed ten times over.
14.3 There is only one rational answer, and that is to work towards disarmament. Unesco has a good record in performing work truly conducive to peace. This applies to Unesco's long-term efforts to protect, shield and augment the cultural heritage of mankind, freedom of thought and the diversity of all forms of expression. It also applies to Unesco's efforts to combat destitution and the injustice prevail- ing in the world.
14.4 But Unesco must go further than that: peace research and the study of the possibilities for disarmament should be central tasks together with activities to influence public opinion in favour of disarmament and peace. In this respect it is important to follow up the recommendations of the World Congress on Disarm- ament Education, recently organized by Unesco. The objective of peace can also be attained through Unesco programmes aimed at helping the poor and the under- privileged. The latter have problems which we hope are within our capacity to do something about. There are still large parts of the world in which per capita income has not gone up, where there are problems of soaring birth rates, declining food production, increasing indebtedness, increasing inequality in the distribution of income and pathological urban slum growth. Generally speaking, Unesco's Regular Programme and Budget must be adapted to meet the urgent requirements of a deeper Unesco involvement in the struggle for peace, but Norway may consider assistance to projects enhancing the peace effort through our multi-bilateral programmes for technical co-operation.
14.5 The Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983 has been drawn up in conformity with the objectives contained in the Medium-Term Plan and represents a real growth rate of 6 per cent. We support this and consequently support the budget level proposed by the Executive Board in document 21 C/6 Add.
14.6 We would have hoped, though, that the major problem area of science and technology could have been strengthened somewhat less. However, Norway will not
570   vote against this part of the draft budget, but it should be understood that our acceptance of the new programmes for science and technology is based on the hope that they will have a clear social emphasis aimed at the satisfaction of man's minimum needs: a decent life span, the ability to read and write and a job. Furthermore, we hope that these, no doubt valuable, programmes will have an em- phasis on developing national programmes and policies for the most needy countries rather than on regional programmes. In future, Norway will actively support a Unesco policy that gives priority to programmes that promote disarmament efforts, enhance literacy work and aim at improving the status of women and children. Having said this, the results of the World Conference on Science and Technology for Development represent a challenge to our Organization, and we hope that far more Member States will contribute to the Interim Fund. We regret the lack of interest and initiative demonstrated by a number of States.
14.7 As I see it, one of Unesco's main aims must be the strengthening of the participation of individuals in decision-making processes at all levels in society, so that they can be aware of their own position and influence it, thereby con- tributing to development on their own terms. Because of disease and malnutrition, or because of traditional social indoctrination, large sectors of the world's population are not aware of their own strength and potential for creating a better life for themselves, nor are they always conscious of the excessive exploitation to which they are subjected. It should be a challenge for Unesco's programme for adult and workers' education, rural development and man and his environment to find solutions and break new ground in this area. In many countries valuable experience has been gained in developing the true participation of workers in decisions in industry - through education and training - and I see no reason why meaningful participation cannot be extended to other facets of community life.
14.8 Popular participation is also an essential element of the concept of a new international economic order. We can no longer believe that economic growth and reform per se will spark off development. I am not only thinking of the indivi- dual's right to participate in decisions affecting his own community, but equally of the right of developing countries to participate in economic activities that take place within their own boundaries. I am referring to the activities of the transnational corporations, these vast economic power structures that dominate investments in the Third World and often dictate the terms of production and trade, mostly for their own benefit.
14.9 It is not easy to see how Unesco could check the activities of the multi- national corporations effectively, but some progress might be achieved through studies and research and perhaps through attitudinal seminars and the dissemina- tion of information in industrialized as well as in developing countries. Good results may also be obtained through co-operation with other United Nations agen- cies, notably the International Labour Organisation, which among other things deals with the problem areas of the economy, employment, participation and trans- national corporations - and which is also deeply concerned by the next question I shall be considering: the status of women.
14.10 We are now halfway through the United Nations Decade for Women, but there are signs that the position of women is not only not improving but is even worsen- ing in some fields. Information supplied by the United Nations shows that in several countries women's access to education and employment has diminished in rural areas and exposed urban settlements. And this in spite of a recent World Bank report stating that "educating girls may be one of the best investments a country can make in future economic growth and welfare". Among families of equal income, children are better nourished when their mothers are better educated, and birth rates and child death rates are lower in such cases.
14.11 At the last session of the General Conference Norway submitted a resolution aimed at improving the status of women. This resolution was unanimously adopted by the Conference. In that resolution, we called for increased efforts to ensure that the interests and needs of women were taken account of in the planning and implementation of Unesco's programme, and we called for increased efforts to achieve an equitable balance in the participation of men and women in the Organi- zation's activities.
14.12 In the course of the two years which have elapsed since then, the number of women occupying posts in the Professional category and above in Unesco's Sec- retariat has not increased. Document 20 C/5 contained some projects of special Interest for women, but the proposed Programme and Budget for 1981-1983 does not provide for any substantial increase in activities concerning the status of women. Whereas projects in this field were allocated 1.2 per cent of the regular budget for 1979-1980, the proposed percentage for the three years ahead is 1.3.
10 14.13 It is against this background that Norway is proposing another resolution concerning the improvement of the status of women. The proposed resolution calls for the increased participation of women at all levels in Unesco and the strength- ening of women's interests in the programme activities of the Organization. Amongst the measures proposed, I should like to mention the introduction of a quota system and the establishment of a special division for women's questions. In addition, we propose an increase in the allocation for women's programmes.
14.14 The International Year of the Child was a due reminder of the needs of children, and of how these needs are often ignored and pushed aside in developing as well as in industrialized countries. It goes without saying that it was an impossible task to make any significant improvement in this situation in the course of a single year. The work undertaken to improve the condition of children must, therefore, continue, and this should be a continuing process in Unesco. However, in the proposed budget there are few signs of increased efforts for children, which we find regrettable. Unesco should accelerate its activities aimed at the elimination of the absolute poverty described in the World Bank Yeportialreadyireferred ito "as a. state of malnutrition, illiteracy. and discase beneath any reasonable definition of human decency. Out of the world's population of 4.4 billion more than one in six - 780 million people - live in that condition, and two out of every five of them are CHILDREN!".
14.15 Mr President, Unesco in recent years has been increasingly engaged in matters related to communication and information. This reflects the growing importance of information in contemporary society. Media policy and information and communica- tion policies are directly linked with the question of press freedom and freedom of information. The mass media are also instruments of power.
14.16 My government highly appreciates the work done by the International Com- mission for the Study of Communication Problems. In our opinion, the Commission has contributed substantially to the elucidation of the fundamental problems con- fronting us in this field. The documentation and the data provided by the Com- mission in its report clearly demonstrate the enormous information imbalances in the world community.
14.17 The present state of affairs has prompted the developing countries to demand a new world information order, a more just and balanced order of communication. They seek the right to make their voices heard'in the international communication process. Statistics collected by the International Commission for the Study of Communication Problems substantiate their claims. As we know, there are still several countries without any national news agencies, their news services being dominated by big transnational news agencies situated in the industrialized world.
14.18 My government acknowledges the just demand which is heard from many coun- tries for participation in communication. We believe it incumbent on Unesco to help bridge the information gap and to root out existing injustices. Consequently, we also support the establishment of an international programme for communication development within the framework of Unesco, and Norway is willing to contribute financially to this programme.
14.19 Mr President, rapid technological development in the field of information and communication may increase existing inequalities among countries. Innovation and the production of new technology mainly take place in a few highly industrial- ized countries - on their specific terms and to a very large degree dominated by commercial interests. The cost of this technology - communication satellites, video, computer-based data transmission, and so on - will tend to limit its use to the rich, developed countries.
14.20 My government agrees with the Director-General's statement that "the chal- lenge flung at us is that of winning a collective mastery, equally shared and freely entered into, over communication for ... all human beings". That is the challenge of the democratization of information at all levels, which is as import- ant on a global scale as it is within a nation. At the national level, it implies greater participation by all groups of the population together with better access to existing means of communication and information.
14.21 It should not. be overlooked that the present concentration of media and the commercialization of information channels represent a threat to the freedom of information. The economic dimension of the freedom of information has become increasingly important. True freedom in this field cannot today be detached from the question of economic capacity to accede to the necessary media channels. To help to ensure pluralism in this field, my country has for several years conducted a programme of support for non-dominant newspapers in different regions. Moreover, and since Unesco has urged Member States to formulate national communication poli= cies, I might also mention that my government has established a National Media Commission entrusted with the task of proposing an overall media policy.
14.22 Mr President, in his introduction to this general policy debate, the Director-General informed the Conference that a member of the Secretariat has been arrested, judged and imprisoned in his home country.
14.23 My government considers it fundamental to international co-operation and to the functioning of international secretariats like that of Unesco, that all Member States should fully respect and apply all treaties and agreements estab- lished to protect international civil servants.
14.24 On the other hand, it has noted with deep concern a number of flagrant violations of the rights of individuals belonging to international secretariats. When such cases occur, it is the duty of the secretariat leader and of the Member States to react and protect the person in question, and thereby protect an important legal corner-stone of international co-operation.
14.25 The Executive Board and the Director-General have endeavoured without success to solve the present problem; it is now our duty, and in our common interest, to encourage them to continue their efforts.
14.26 Mr President, one of the central tasks of Unesco is to contribute to the protection of the cultural diversity of the world. It is of particular importance to take measures for the protection of threatened cultural minorities, including aboriginal populations, ethnic, religious and language minority groups, migrant workers and others.
14.27 The commercialization and internationalization of culture facilitates a special form of cultural dominance. The international culture industry, with its mass production of light reading, children's literature, serials, television and video programmes, records and cassettes, is a threat - not only to the cultural identity and the possibilities of self-expression of various cultural minorities, but also to the very cultures of small nations.
14.28 Technological development never takes place in a vacuum. The specific social and cultural pattern of each country or area should be the foundation of all development, but this pattern almost invariably disintegrates when exposed to the forces of alien technology. If we are to avoid the unwanted effects of technological developments, all technological innovation must be adapted to the specific situation in each country, and it must be based on a broad interdisci- plinary approach. However, in Unesco's activities, such an approach is hampered by the sectoral structure of the Secretariat. It is therefore of major importance to continue the work of strengthening co-ordination and co-operation between these different sectors and their staffs.
14.29 Thank you, Mr President.
15. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Norwegian delegation. RECOMMENDATION BY THE GENERAL COMMITTEE CONCERNING THE UTILIZATION OF THE BUDGET- ARY RESERVE FOR FINANCING DRAFT RESOLUTIONS RECOMMANDATION DU BUREAU CONCERNANT L'UTILISATION DE LA RESERVE BUDGETAIRE POUR LE FINANCEMENT DES PROJETS DE RESOLUTION RECOMMENDACION DE LA MESA RELATIVA A LA UTILIZACION DE LA RESERVA PRESUPUESTARIA PARA FINANCIAR LOS PROYECTOS DE RESOLUCION РЕКОМЕНДАЦИЯ ПРЕЗИДИУМА ОТНОСИТЕЛЬНО ИСПОЛЬЗОВАНИЯ БЮДЖЕТНОГО РЕЗЕРВА ДЛЯ ФИНАНСИРОВАНИЯ ПРОЕКТОВ РЕЗОЛЮЦИЙ .تازارقلاتاعورشمليومتلةينازيملاىطايتحامادختسانأشببتكملاةيصوت REZR2XTHERRNEEHELNEN
16.1 The PRESIDENT: Before giving the floor to the next speaker in the general policy debate, I shall submit for your approval a recommendation by the General Committee.
16.2 At its meeting on 26 September, the General Committee considered the recom- mendations adopted by the Executive Board at its 110th session, in 110 EX/Deci- sion 4.1, Part II, concerning the utilization of the sum of $1 million included in the Draft Appropriation Resolution in document 21 C/5 for financing draft resolu- tions submitted by Member States and approved by the General Conference.
16.3 The General Committee was informed that the financial implications of the proposals submitted by Member States in accordance with Rule 78A of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference and received by the Secretariat on or before
8 July 1980, 11 weeks before the opening of the General Conference, involving    either new activities or a substantial increase in budgetary expenditure, amounted to $3,342,900, and that the proposed increase in the membership of the Executive Board would incur additional expenditure of $446,700.
16.4 The General Committee unanimously recommends that the plenary approve the recommendations by the Executive Board, namely: (a) that the $1 million reserve be distributed to Programme Commissions on the basis of the proportion of proposals submitted by Member States within their competence; and (b) that each Programme Commission should dispose of the funds, up to the amount available to it, when it considers the proposals submitted by Member States.
16.5 Details concerning the percentages involved and the funds at the disposal of the Commissions will be published in the next issue of the Journal.
16.6 I accordingly submit the recommendation by the General Committee for your approval. In the absence of any objection, I shall take it that the recommenda- tion is approved.
17. The PRESIDENT: We shall now continue the general policy debate. The next speaker is H.E. Mr Cedric Grant, head of the Guyanese delegation. I give him the floor.
18.1 Mr GRANT (Guyana): Mr President, Mr Director-General, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, dis- tinguished ministers, fellow delegates, permit me at the outset to extend to you, Mr President, my own and my delegation's congratulations on your election as President of this twenty-first session of the General Conference of Unesco. Your experience in the workings of Unesco is certain to ensure the success of this session. In your task please be assured of the fullest co-operation of the Guyana delegation. Indeed, Mr President, I have been authorized to inform you that the Government and people of the Co-operative Republic of Guyana remain committed to the objectives of Unesco and support all the efforts of the Organization. More specifically I have been asked by the Minister of Education, Social Development and Culture, under whose portfolio the relationship between Unesco and Guyana falls, to wish the Conference every success in its endeavours. Mr President, the success of a conference of this nature and complexity also depends on the quality of its organization. My delegation has been impressed by the efficiency and indefatiga- bility of Mr Amadou Mahtar M'Bow and his staff, which has resulted in the quality being of a very high standard. We wish to congratulate him on his well-merited reappointment to the office of Director-General, and to express the hope that his Second "term of “of fice~will “be as“ fruitful™as"his™ firsts
18.2 Mr President, the fact that we are gathered together in your historic and picturesque capital brings to mind the prodigious role played by Yugoslavia in telling the world of the aspirations, hopes and dreams of those who have had to fight resolutely for their independence, and perhaps even more so to protect it. In these endeavours, your country was guided until only recently by that renowned patriot, statesman and defender of freedom, Josip Broz Tito. His passing most surely has brought to an end a memorable chapter in world history of which all peace-loving countries must feel justly proud. It would be a fitting tribute to that great leader's memory were conferences such as this to be crowned with tangible achievement, having as their aim the creation of a just and better world in which poverty is eliminated, a world for which he strove so tirelessly.
18.3 Mr President, many of the Member States of Unesco are threatened today with the scourge of poverty. The decade of the 1980s will be crucial and decisive. It will determine whether such poverty will be eternal or whether the storms that are gathering and the darkness that is descending will be turned back. The outcome will depend on the extent to which we are prepared to acknowledge that human des- tinies are interlocked, that the mounting poverty in the developing countries and the deepening recession in the industrialized countries are not unrelated.
18.4 When gripped by recession the industrialized countries resort to protection- ist measures in the interest of their high-cost industries, causing the poor coun-" tries difficulties in selling their goods and services to them. Furthermore, we who are poor also find it difficult to pay for goods and services from the industrialized countries, goods and services which our own industrialization calls for. But, Mr President, if the poor cannot buy from the rich then the latter will find it correspondingly difficult to sell. The point is, do we want to take the          positive path to interdependence and co-operation or the negative one of protection- 10 ism and selfishness which must inevitably lead to tragedy and grief for both worlds? The answer to this question has not always been clear and unequivocal. To be sure, at conference after conference the web that links us together is acknowledged by all. But, too often, when firm and resolute steps to achieve the goal of inter- dependence are to be pursued, the acknowledgement proves to be mere lip-service. Time and time again, industrialized countries have balked at proposals for the restructuring of the international economic system; they have pursued a policy of hesitancy and evasion as recently as at the last Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly.
18.5 My delegation is heartened by the enlightened stand taken by the Director- General of Unesco on the economic issues facing the international community.
18.6 Of major concern to my delegation is the continued dependence of the poor countries on the technology of the industrialized world and the difficulty of gaining access to it. The fact that transnational corporations have been able to exercise their considerable power for so long is due to the fact that they and the countries they sometimes represent possess a virtual monopoly of capital and of scientific and technological expertise, and because of their reluctance to share this once they were assured that their exploitation of the human and natural resources of the developing countries, through which their monopoly could grow and prosper, remained unquestioned. And, on occasion, some of the crumbs from the feast of their expertise in this field were fed to the poorer countries, on moral grounds. But the 1970s have changed this; the countries of the Third World have at last realized that they are not entirely powerless, and that their natural resources are weapons which they themselves must fashion, control and wield. If the developed North wishes to share in the development of the considerable natural and other resources of the developing South, then the latter must also be entitled to share in developments in technology and science. Thus, Mr President, we of the Third World have the opportunity to say to the industrialized countries that it is no longer a question of their sharing on grounds of goodness, charity and benevolence, but rather on grounds of hard-headed self-interest.
18.7 I have dwelt at some length on economic issues, Mr President, because they are central to many other issues with which Unesco is concerned. We constantly hear concern expressed at the infringement of human rights. It requires little consideration to recognize that these concerns are for human rights that are political in character. But surely one of the most fundamental rights of which one one could be denied is the right to earn a decent living. Human rights may end with the right to dissent, but they begin with freedom from want and poverty. To the Third World peasant human rights means something different from what they mean to the Oxford don; first and foremost they mean bringing to an end his per- petual state of economic subjugation by external forces and also an end to a situation in which the price he receives for his produce on the world market remains low because totally dependent on an international trading system in which his country has little say. Mr President, the righting of those wrongs and in- justices inflicted over hundreds of years on the peoples of the developing world should be of as much concern as the righting of those that are political and con- stitutional in nature.
18.8 These are some of the considerations that have influenced our statements on the questions of colonialism and racism, issues on which Unesco has consistently taken a courageous stand. We watched, through the long days and anxious nights, the advance of the people of Zimbabwe to full nationhood, and we saluted them and rejoiced with them on that achievement. This fatal blow to colonialism should lend new courage and vigour to the oppressed elsewhere in southern Africa in other lands who are still to experience the exhilaration of freedom, and stiffen the resolve of those engaged in recovering the homeland of which they have been wantonly deprived.
18.9 Mr President, the process of liberation is not only economic and political. It is also cultural. It involves a challenge to long-established values, atti- tudes and methods that act as a drag on national awareness and development. To overcome this disability, education, formal and non-formal, must be employed. Guyana's determination to fashion an integrated policy of self-reliance, em- phasizing the development of each individual's potential and the full use of the country's resources for its own benefit, has led to the introduction into the educational system of a greater degree of relevance to national goals and objectives.
18.10 Mr President, policies of self-reliance engender a greater appreciation of a country's scientific and technical capacity and, at a time when Third World countries are being battered by the high cost of energy, that capacity is being continually tested. Guyana, for its part, is exploiting small-scale energy sources which promise to transform the lives of the rural poor and the socially deprived.    The inclusion of a programme of alternate sources of energy in the next Medium- Term Plan could only give a fillip to the efforts of Third World countries to draw upon their own resources and skills.
18.11 But, Mr President, these attempts at constructive developments in Third World countries seldom attract the attention of the international media. This is not because they are less dramatic in scope and impact than highly capital- intensive schemes, but because they do not lend themselves to the sensationalism which is the daily diet on which the media prefer to feed. The present system of international dissemination of information lays stress on the negative rather than the positive aspects of Third World development. This state of affairs cries out for change. The time is overdue when developing countries themselves should be able to tell their story to the international community. This is an issue which is highly topical, and which is engaging the attention of the present Conference.
18.12 Guyana welcomes the general thrust of the findings of the International Commission for the Study of Communication Problems, and the crusading zeal with which the Director-General has pursued this issue. Advocacy of a change in the present information order which would give the countries of the South a voice, both literally and figuratively, is not confined to the demand for an end to the present monopoly over the dissemination of information, but extends to the protection of our cultural heritage from distortion and misunderstanding.
18.13 Mr President, the policy of self-reliance, with its demands upon human resources, has provided an opportunity for women in Guyana to be more fully in- tegrated into the development effort of the country. A special feature of the draft Medium-Term Plan is its recognition of the crises and uncertainties of rural society; consequently it is hoped - may I say expected - that Unesco, in devoting much more of its resources to the training and employment of women, will pay especial attention to those who live in rural areas.
18.14 Mr President, an evaluation of Unesco's work reveals that much has been achieved; but! there is still "a Tong and rugged rosdaheadofus.-> Ins crux of the issue. is whether or not there exists the political will on the part of all coun- tries to work together for a better and more equitable world. The answer to this question must be clear and unequivocal, and it can emerge from this Conference. This is the twenty-first session and, traditionally, a twenty-first birthday gathering engenders hope and confidence in a whole new, bright future. There is no intrinsic reason why the social and economic injustices of the worlá should continue to hang like a pall of cloud over the countryside during the decade ahead of us.
18.15 Mr President, I would not like to conclude without saying how indebted my delegation feels to the people and Government of Yugoslavia for the care with which the arrangements for the comfort and convenience of delegates have been made, for the warmth of our welcome and for the excellence of these Conference facilities.
18.16. ‘Thank you, Mr President.
(20.1) Mr AL-MANDHARI (Oman) (Translation from the Arabic): Mr President, permit me to congratulate you on your election to the position ofPresident of the twenty-first session of the Unesco General Conference. I am confidentthat your long experience will be a factor in the success of the Conference and in the attainment of its objectives. In addition, it gives me great pleasure, on the occasionof the holding of the Conference in this hospitable land, to extend, on behalf of my country's delegation, sincere thanks to the friendly Government of Yugoslavia for its most gracious reception. Furthermore, I am honoured to present to this Organization, Unesco, and its Director-General, the best wishes of His Majesty, Sultan Qabus, for every success in carrying out its mission, with all that that represents in terms of the principles of justice, truth and freedom. I also wish to convey His Majesty's esteem for the technical assistance which your Organization is making available to my countryin such vital and important fields as education, our cultural heritage and technology.In addition, I should like to express His Majesty's hope that this co-operation willcontinue and become more firmly established, with a view to securing a better life forthe people of Oman in their modern resurgence. I shall also take advantage of this opportunity to offer the congratulations of my country's delegation to Mr Amadou-MahtarM'Bow on his re-election this morning as Director-General of Unesco.
(20.22) Mr President, we are gathered here at this General Conference in order to consider Unesco's programme, which is regarded as a key element of the Organization's activity. We are here in order to pass resolutions affirming that in the world's conscience, man has a right.ite ailife of dignity, free from ignorance, fear and poverty, deriving from his heritage nourishment and enrichment for his present existence, benefiting from the results of science and technology in achieving a life of dignity, enoying art and beauty. Similarly, all nations, large and small, have the right to live as a single family, knit    together in an international community governed by peace and serenity, in a framework of solidarity among nations concerning the right of developing peoples to receive aid in order that they may achieve scientific and technological progress and surmount their problems in the area of development and progress. Such aid is not to be given out of charity or begged for as alms; it is due by the right of human solidarity, represented by Unesco and the other United Nations agencies.
(20.3) Mr President, living as we do under the shade of the principles of the United Nations in peace and security we see the conscience of the world shaken by the criminal effort which is taking place to blot out the features of the city of Jerusalem. For a long time that city enjoyed peace under Arab administration, while the three religions - Islam, Christianity and Judaism - enjoyed such religious freedom that it was regarded as a model of peaceful coexistence and fraternity among religions. Over the ages, Arab administrations preserved all the Holy Places and guaranteed the freedom of religious practices. Now we find that Israel is flouting world opinion, United Nations resolutions, all the principles of truth and justice and all human values by forcibly seizing the city of Jerusalem and proclaiming it to be Israel's eternal capital, thereby thwarting all opportunities for peace in the Arab territories and violating the rights of Arab peoples in that part of the world. To this we must add the heinous crime which Israel is continuing to commit, namely disfiguring the features of the Holy City and altering some of the Islamic and Christian sanctuaries, displaying contempt for all ethical values and all international principles. And what further arouses the world's conscience is Israel's continuing forcible encroachment on the Arab territories, thereby flouting all United Nations resolutions and principles: it is turning millions of Palestinian Arabs into refugees, denying them their lawful right to return to their land, their native country. Our Organization is asked forthwith to adopt the strongest possible resolutions in order to put an end to Israel's mockery of all international values and principles.
(20.4) Mr President, since your distinguished Conference augurs well and is a harbinger of progress to the developing countries in a setting of international co-operation and solidarity, this reminds us of an important principle, namely the right of nations to decide their own fate and their own future, free from any interference in their affairs, whether by military force, propaganda, or any other form of interference. Unfortunately, in this age we find that peace is threatened in many parts of the world as a result of illegitimate interference. For this reason we must condemn interference in the affairs of other states in any form.
(20.5) Mr Chairman, I should like, if I may, to make some remarks on the draft pro- gramme which we have before us and which we are gathered here at this General Conference to discuss. The programme which the Director-General has submitted to us is marked by three important principles. First, it features concentration. The number of activities is smaller than in the previous programme, and the financial appropriations to be devoted to those activities have increased. This approach will enable the Organization to spend more on projects in the programme and will make it more effective in attaining the ob- jectives it pursues. The second principle is linked to that same feature, with respect to what the draft programme says concerning the criteria governing concentration, namely that the needs of Member States, particularly developing countries, will be one of the main sources of guidance in designing activities. This is a principle which confirms the practical and clearly defined nature of the contemplated activities. The third prin- ciple is an orientation towards decentralization of the Organization's work, with strength- ening of the Regional Offices on the one hand, and on the other hand the creation of four regional co-ordinator posts; these co-ordinators will assume the task of helping the countries concerned to define their needs and to prepare national programmes and com- mon regional programmes covering wide areas.
(20.6) These three principles represent a positive approach to effective implementation of the Organization's programme. The impact of these principles on a number of fields of activity is already clearly apparent; there has been a perceptible intensification of activities pertaining to education in science and technology. We support this approach and call for it to be strengthened, considering that science and technology are fun- damental to development. Similarly, the programme's activities feature concern for tech- nical and vocational education in the context of developing links between education systems and working life. This is a meritorious new directive which we support and heartily applaud. It is also noteworthy that the programme has devoted attention to rural development and strengthened Unesco's role in projects related to such development. This is appropriate to the urgent needs of the developing countries, inasmuch as rural development represents one of the major problems with which developing countries are confronted in their efforts to achieve progress. Another aspect of the draft programme is the activities it includes on the subject of administrative improvements to education systems. The programme has focused on the introduction of new administrative techniques. It is a fact that the needs of the developing countries call for the training of admin- istrative personnel capable of mastering these new techniques.
(20.7) The stress placed by the programme's activities on the personality of the indi- vidual and its unfolding in the context of the requirements of social and economic devel- opment, the stress placed on the social function of information and communication, the efforts devoted to preservation and presentation of the cultural and natural heritage, the strengthening of artistic activities and experiments characterized by artistic and intellectual creativity - all this requires more effort and attention.
(20.8) Mr President, the report of the International Commission for the Study of Com- munication Problems deals with the subject at length. I should like to make a few comments at this time. The general concept of communication, considered as a comprehen- sive system including the mass media, wire and wireless communications, and data process- ing at the national, regional or international level, all this gives the subject of com- munication particular importance, both for national development and for world progress,    and also means that it has an impact on peace and security. The role of communication at the national level is consequently extended to include education, culture and the development of rural and remote areas, in addition to the conventional mass media, i.e. radio, television and the press. Given this concept, communication may be regarded as a basic means of delivering services - cultural and educational services - in new ways, to all parts of the country, and of increasing awareness among people. so that they can participate in a positive and well-informed fashion in development programmes. This subject is linked to two important matters, namely rural development and the trends to decentralization. This is because a rise in the level of awareness among the people of a country, and an increase in their ability to participate meaningfully, is a funda- mental step towards the achievement of the development of that country. Similarly, a rise in the citizen's level of awareness makes it possible for the state to delegate many of its powers to him. Under those circumstances, decentralization stands upon a sound footing. And bound up with this is not merely the availability of advanced com- munication technology in the developing countries, but also the ability to use that advanced technology in a more satisfactory way, so that it is not a mere financial burden upon those states. This throws a clear-cut responsibility upon any international com- munication project concerning the training of persons in the developing countries with a view to the preparation of trained personnel capable of undertaking this work.
(20.9) At the international level, it is worth pointing out that the gap between the advanced and the developing countries is wide, and in fact growing wider, not only from the technological viewpoint, but from the qualitative viewpoint as well. This represents a great danger, in the sense that sometimes a type of planned impact may be associated with the propagation of particular views which the developing countries do not have the means or resources to refute. These then become forces exerting intellectual pressure which cause a loss of balance and annihilate freedom, so that the individual falls victim to a powerful directed stream of propaganda. For this reason it is essential for the concept of freedom to be based on balance among the sources spilling out data, so that the term "freedom" does not become a catchword for a new kind of information imperialism, what some of the members of the Commission termed "spiritual imperialism". To consider another aspect, it is essential for the free use of information equipment and the guaran- tees which are made available to those in charge of it, as mentioned in the Commission's report, not to become synonymous with a tendency on the part of information people to make unrestrained use of their power to influence.
(20.10) Mr President, with regard to the subject of the institution of a new international economic order, the history of this goes back to 1974, when the United Nations General Assembly issued its resolutions concerning the setting up of a new international economic order as a means of bringing about justice and equality between sovereign states, narrow-ing the broad gap between /developing and/ developed countries, guaranteeing continued economic and social development, and achieving peace and justice for present and future generations. Now, after six years of study and investigation, we find ourselves for all practical purposes still at the starting point, although our perception of the issues which would be affected by the setting up of such a new order has become clearer. In view of the importance of the new international order, particularly for the developing countries, for which it represents a hope of progress and development, we feel that it is essential to begin defining the elements which can be applied in order to advance rapidly towards such a new order.
(20.11) The book Moving Towards Change tells us that while we have the right to establish a new international order, we must agree on a system of values pertaining to justice and equality and be prepared to work on a study of their content. This confronts us with the question raised in that same book: "In the world of many cultures and ideologies in which we live, are the nations ready to agree on a 'system of values' which could be the foundation of a new order?" Here we plainly see the cultural role (in the most clear- cut sense of the term) that Unesco has to play in arriving at practical starting points for the journey towards achievement of this new international economic order.7¿Itrissa matter which demands a great deal of sincere effort.
(20.12) Mr President, I should like to conclude these remarks by wishing this Conference every success, with freedom of opinion, openness of thought and constructive discussion. I should also like to wish the Organization all success in its advance towards the attain-ment of its great objectives of truth, justice, peace, and the achievement of progress and prosperity for all peoples. Peace and the blessing and mercy of God be upon you.
213 The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Omani delegation, and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Alfredo Prieto Bafalluy, Minister of Public Education of Chile, and head of the Chilean delegation.
(22.1) Mr PRIETO BAFFALLUY (Chile) (Translation from the Spanish): Mr President, I should like to congratulate you on your well-deserved election to preside over our meetings at this General Conference. We are sure that your skill and equanimity will enable us to perform the important tasks that have brought us together in an atmosphere of mutual respect and collaboration.
(22.2) There are many reasons why the delegation of my country is very happy to be on Yugoslav soil, but there is one in particular that I should like to single out: many families, many men and women of this people, have, at various times in the history of my country, arrived on its shores and received a brotherly welcome from the Chileans. Towns in the far north and the far south of our country have become home for those Yugoslavs who settled there, acquiring our nationality and contributing their strength and imagina- tion to our culture, our economic endeavours and our social development. It is especially meaningful for me and all the members of the Chilean delegation to be here, in the country from which so many of our highly distinguished compatriots originally came. One well- chosen illustration will perhaps convey what I am trying to express. 1 recently chaired the panel that awards my country's highest distinction, the National Literature Prize, to its most talented writers and men of letters; and I had the pleasure SET contributing, through my vote, to that panel's decision to award the National Prize this year to a Chilean writer and educator called Roque Esteban Scarpa, the son of Yugoslav parents who travelled from the beautiful coasts of this land to settle in the southern town of Punta Arenas. Professor Roque Esteban Scarpa has Yugoslav blood in his veins, and he has been one of the masters of the Spanish language and literature in Chile. This event shows what rewards can be reaped from the encounters between cultures that Unesco welcomes and promotes in its various activities.
(223) Mr President, I am very pleased to announce that the educational and cultural policy of my country is in keeping with the major objectives of Unesco, and that the mainoutlines of the programme to be submitted to the Conference adhere faithfully to the guide-lines previously agreed upon. I welcome the harmony between the education programme pre -pared by Unesco for the forthcoming triennium and the fundamental concerns of Chile inthis sphere.
(22.4) In our country, a major and determined effort is being made to find appropriatesolutions to the considerable problems posed by the quality and coverage of adult educa-tion, vocational education, rural education and pre-school education. Special educationhas also, in recent years, developed tremendously, and the decision to declare 1981 theInternational Year for Disabled Persons has provided fresh incentives for action by thegovernment and the community to benefit all those suffering from physical or mentalhandicaps.
22.5) In the past few years, Chile has expanded its education system, making the right to education written into a new Constitution a reality for all sectors of the nation. In the process, substantial changes have converted the existing centralized educational structures into new, decentralized systems. Accordingly, state education, which was formerly controlled by the Ministry of Education, will become one of the major responsi- bilities of local authorities, in order to promote greater participation by the community in the work of education.
(22.6) The National Literacy Plan, launched in March this year, merits separate con- sideration; it is intended, in the short term, to reduce the already low rate of illiteracy which at present stands at less than ten per cent, on a par with that of the most advancedcountries.
(22.7) Unesco has been acquainted with all these plans, initiatives and achievements through its consultant, Professor Ricardo Marín Ibañez, whose mission to Chile produced valuable and pertinent suggestions on ways of improving our educational strategies: +3think that this is an appropriate point at which to thank the Organization for the assistance rendered by its adviser, and for the advice and specific support provided bythe Unesco Regional Office for Education in Latin America and the Caribbean.
(22.8) The new emphasis that is to be placed on the Regional Offices and decentralizedunits under the plan of gradual decentralization should result in swifter action and promptreplies to regional requests; and, as far as the Regional Office for Education in LatinAmerica and the Caribbean is concerned, I am quite sure that the new resources and allo-cations will enable it to play a significant part in implementing the major projectdecided upon by the Regional Conference of Ministers of Education and Those Responsiblefor Economic Planning of Member States of Latin America and the Caribbean, recently heldin Mexico.
(22.9) I welcome the prominence given to science and technology, which is reflected in the allocation of increased resources to these areas, and, in particular, the emphasisplaced on scientific training and technical and vocational education. The ExecutiveBoard and the Director-General have been far-sighted in recommending the adoption of measures that will enable Unesco to prepare and implement major regional projects in thesphere of science and technology. I should like to single out some that are of greaterrelevance to Latin America, such as the projects connected with the exploitation of water resources in rural areas, and research for the integrated management of coastal ecosystems.
(22.10) Another fundamental theme, repeatedly emphasized by the Director-General, isthe need to take up the growing challenge to mankind posed by the rational management of the oceans, for which purpose the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission shouldbe strengthened, so that its work may be well-conceived and closely geared to the decisionsof the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea.
(22.11) The achievements of other Unesco programmes, such as the Man and the Biosphereprogramme, will undoubtedly provide useful precedents for the more successful developmentof the projects that I have referred to. The model for fund-raising and internationalco-operation set up by the MAB programme could serve as a guide for exploring the possi-bilities of extra-budgetary sources and collaboration with private foundations and otherinstitutions. Within this context of science and technology development, I should liketo draw attention to our concern at the low level of the contributions of the major coun-tries to the United Nations Interim Fund, a subject to which the Director-General referredin his speech. I welcome the attention that Unesco plans to give to certain topics dis-cussed by the Vienna Conference, ’such”as, speaking generally, the organization of inter-national co-operation in framing and implementing funding policies and the strengtheningof scientific and technological information services, in such spheres as new and renewable energy sources, which are of outstanding importance at this critical time.
(22.12) Special mention should be made of the Second Conference on the Application ofScience and Technology to the Development of Latin America, CASTALA II, convened for
1984, and whose central theme, the application of science and technology to the develop-ment of rural areas, is of the greatest importance to the countries of Latin America andthe Caribbean.
(22.139 Nevertheless, Mr President, it should be made clear that the educational, scien- tific and technological advances taking place in Chile and in other developing countries are almost entirely due to those countries' own efforts. I think that if we really wishto make a new international economic order a reality, the developed countries will have to combine their efforts and share their experience with those that are relatively less developed, a task in which Unesco is necessarily required to assume a large share of res-ponsibility in respect of determining objectives and harmonizing efforts.
(22.14) In the spheres of the social sciences and culture, I wish to express my warm 10 support for the activities planned on behalf of women and youth. The increasingly res- ponsible partplayed by women in our society redounds to their credit, and the involve- ment of young: people in social structures gives those structures the impetus needed to ensure steady progress.
(22.15) Nevertheless, even more than action, it is worth stressing the importance of intellectual analysis, which should be a beacon lighting the path for all action to follow. The social sciences and culture are the battlegrounds for the fundamental conflicts now convulsing mankind. Accordingly, they entail a responsibility which our Organization cannot abdicate and which-finds its central expression in a specific programme for these disciplines.
(22.16) Nowadays, man seeks in the identity of his own culture and in the coming together of different cultures sources of new strength enabling him to fulfil his historical potential. This is the context within which modern society must tackle the major undertakings of edu- cation and development. For this reason, I applaud Unesco's insistence on the importance of philosophical reflection, and of the critical and illuminating insights which it provides. The Executive Board has rightly said that all the activities of Unesco's programme should be subject to philosophical scrutiny. The vitality of cultural policy, if it is to serve the interests of the whole community, must encourage the development of creativity in all its forms; but it must also enable each region, within its national framework, to give ex- pression to its own potentialities and, reacting against the centralized structures ofthe past, which concentrated all cultural activities in the capital, allow provinces, towns and major geographical and economic regions to build up their own cultural communities. Within one and the same nation, the various regions should, on the basis of a deeper aware- ness of their specific characteristics, be a constant source of enrichment to one another.
(22.17) The same is true in the international context, and supreme importance attaches to Unesco's mission to use imagination in promoting the great dialogue of cultures on which any new world order must necessarily be based.
(22.18) In this context, I should like to recall an illustrious Latin American, the bicentenary of whose birth we shall soon be celebrating: Andrés Bello, who laid the foun- dations for our legal system, for our grammar and linguistics, and for the entire develop- ment of our education and culture. Although his roots were in classical culture, he nevertheless demanded the cultural autonomy of our Latin America, made the University of Chile the focus of national development and, in his book "Principios del Derecho de Gentes", laid the corner-stone of the concept of international law that the young nations are still aspiring to make an authentic reality today. To the personality of this great man and to his work, which germinated and spread throughout the length and breadth of Latin America, I wish today, at Unesco, to pay well-deserved tribute.
(22.19) I should now like to make a few remarks which will, I hope, contribute to a fruit- ful debate on the major world problems affecting the member countries of Unesco. Firstly, I shall refer to the efforts to establish a new international economic order, based on equity. At this point, I should like to recall the statement made by His Excellency the Chilean Minister of Education at that time to Unesco's last General Conference that the establishment of such a new order "presupposes the dynamic presence of a cultural order which would set the scene for social and economic development by bringing spiritual values such as justice and equity to the fore".
(22.20) Accordingly, we must aspire to the ability to reach agreement on a system of values that transcends purely economic considerations and finds expression in an all- encompassing cultural process. The remarks of His Holiness John Paul II in his recent speech at Unesco Headquarters are most enlightening: "We are faced, as it were, by a vast system of communicating vessels: the problems of culture, science and education do not arise, in the life of nations and in international relations, independently of the other problems of human existence, such as those of peace or hunger. The problems of culture are fundamentally affected by the other dimensions of human existence, just as they in turn influence those other dimensions". I fully endorse this view, and therefore consider it totally inadequate to approach an international development strategy in terms of monetary and financial questions alone, or even in terms of trade, energy or indus- trialization. If the foundations of the new order are justice, freedom, equality and solidarity, then the task is supremely an educational one, in the strictest sense of the term. Its values must be responsibly adopted and universally acknowledged as guidelines for the new order. And herein, without a doubt, lies Unesco's ethical vocation.
(22.21) Concluding his Introduction to the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983, the Director-General could not fail to express anxiety about the present world situation, overshadowed as it is by uncertainty, tensions, poverty and threats of conflicts, which, while they are not new, are today features of a more acutely alarming overall situation. We are sure that the dangers of war are increased by the arms race, a phenomenon that constitutes one of the gravest threats to peace and international security. Nevertheless, I think that the greatest responsibility devolves not so much on the negotiators concerned as on ourselves, who profess a faith in man which sees beyond his technological achieve- ments, and that it is ourselves who are called upon to make the greatest efforts; we believe in fostering man's awareness; we are the architects of the reconciliation of man- kind. For this reason, we applaud and endorse the Director-General's firm belief that all the activities proposed in this Draft Programme and Budget are designed to increase the consciousness that each people has of its own dignity and: that of others. We hope that this objective may be achieved in full measure, for the good of mankind and for the sake of international peace.
23, The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Chilean delegation, and I give the floor to Mr Henri Leleu, Director of Political Affairs of the Council of Europe and Observer for the Council of Europe.
24.1 M. LELEU (Conseil de 1'Europe) .- Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames les déléguées, Messieurs les délégués, permettez-moi tout d'abord de vous trans- mettre les tres sincéres regrets du Secrétaire général du Conseil de 1'Europe, M. Franz Karasek, de n'être pas parmi vous aujourd'hui, retenu qu'il est à Stras- bourg par la session de notre Assemblée parlementaire qui se tient en ce moment même. Il eût aimé vous adresser, Monsieur le Président, ses très sincères félicita- tions pour votre élection. De même il eût été particulièrement heureux d'applaudir à la brillante reconduction du mandat du Directeur général de l'Unesco, ce dont nous nous réjouissons tous à Strasbourg, au Conseil de l'Europe. Je le fais avec déférence, en invoquant les sentiments d'estime et d'amitié qui unissent le Direc- teur général de l'Unesco et le Secrétaire général du Conseil de l'Europe. Je vou- drais aussi exprimer en son nom nos remerciements très cordiaux pour l'invitation que le Directeur général lui a adressée. C'est en effet devenu une coutume très heureuse pour le Conseil de l'Europe d'être représenté au plus haut niveau aux sessions de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco. Après les réunions de Nairobi et de Paris, celle de Belgrade se trouve aujourd'hui mise en valeur par sa situation particulièrement symbolique pour tous ceux qui sont attachés à la coopération et à la sécurité internationale dans le respect de nos indépendances.
24.2 Ces dernières années, vous le savez, ont été marquées par la relance du débat international sur la démocratie, la crise de nos institutions, les défis lancés à toutes nos sociétés par le progrès technologique mais aussi et surtout par l'immense espoir pour les relations des pays et des hommes de l'Est et de l'Ouest suscité par l'Acte final d'Helsinki. Deux ans après la réunion de Belgrade sur la CSCE, nous voici à la veille de la Conférence de Madrid, où l'Unesco sera présente. Le Conseil de l'Europe, par delä les différentes idéologies des Etats ainsi rassemblés, ne peut que se réjouir des impulsions nouvelles découlant de l'Acte final et dont une coopération accrue avec l'Unesco pourrait constituer une heureuse conséquence. Le Comité des ministres du Conseil de l'Europe n'a cessé pour sa part de démontrer sa confiance dans le processus d'une détente indivisible telle qu'elle doit résulter de l'Acte final de la CSCE.
24.3 La paix, la sécurité et la détente sont des objectifs essentiels auxquels le Conseil de l'Europe et l'Unesco peuvent et doivent contribuer, chacun à sa place, de toutes leurs forces. C'est pourquoi, loin d'avoir adopté une attitude de repli sur soi-même, le Conseil de l'Europe est ouvert sur le monde extérieur qui est celui de l'Unesco. Ce témoignage de l'intérêt du Conseil de l'Europe n'est d'ail- leurs pas resté sans réponse puisqu'il s'est concrétisé dès 1952 par un accord de coopération entre nos deux organisations, sur la base duquel des contacts et des échanges de vues réguliers sont organisés. L'utilité de ces rencontres ne sera jamais assez soulignée, puisqu'en permettant d'établir des contacts personnels et amicaux, elles donnent la possibilité de confronter les travaux entrepris par les deux organisations, de s'apporter une aide mutuelle et d'éviter ainsi certains doubles emplois, d'autant plus préjudiciables dans la situation économique ac- tuelle. Des observateurs assistent également aux réunions des organes de l'une ou l'autre organisation et le Comité des ministres procède régulièrement à des échanges de vues de nature plus politique afin d'évaluer dans une perspective cons- tructive les positions des Etats membres du Conseil de l'Europe sur les questions traitées aux Nations Unies ou dans certaines organisations spécialisées. Il a d'ailleurs, depuis longtemps, encouragé les relations extérieures de l'Organisa- tion avec un certain nombre d'organisations internationales et tout particulière- ment avec l'Unesco, comme cela ressort de la résolution (74) 4 sur le rôle futur du Conseil de l'Europe.
24.4 Le Secrétaire général du Conseil de l'Europe, M. Karasek, n'aurait su mieux répondre à cette mission qu'en assistant lui-même, à la suite de l'invitation qui lui avait été faite par M. M'Bow lors de sa venue à Strasbourg pour la 32e session de l'Assemblée, au mois d'avril dernier, à la réunion de votre Conseil exécutif et à l'examen du Projet de programme et de budget pour la période 1981-1983 qui vous est soumis à cette session. Le Comité des ministres du Conseil de l'Europe, de son côté, est sur le point d'adopter son plan à moyen terme pour les cing années à venir, C'est dire combien nos liens de collaboration se situent dans une perspec- tive opérationnelle. Laissez-moi à ce propos évoquer une phrase de Robert Schuman : "L'Europe", disait-il, "avant d'être une entité économique, doit être une communauté culturelle". Voila qui nous rapproche singulièrement, surtout si l'on songe qu'aux termes de notre statut, "le but du Conseil de l'Europe sera pour- suivi par l'examen de questions d'intérêt commun et par l'adoption d'une action commune, entre autres dans le domaine culturel".
24.5 Il ressort d'ailleurs de l'examen de votre nouveau programme que nos deux organisations peuvent coopérer efficacement dans un grand nombre de domaines d'ac- tivités que je me contenterai d'énumérer rapidement : il serait en effet fasti- dieux d'entrer dans les détails techniques de cette collaboration, détails qui vous seront fournis dans un document d'information qui vous sera diffusé ultérieu- rement. Toute l'action du Conseil de l'Europe, inspirée par la volonté de nos Etats membres de donner la prééminence aux droits de l'homme, tant sur le plan mondial qu'européen, se traduit par un effort de démocratisation authentique ten- dant à donner à chaque individu l'entière dimension de sa personnalité humaine et à affirmer la plénitude de ses responsabilités aux plans social et politique. C'est cet esprit qui a présidé à l'élaboration de la Convention culturelle euro- péenne. A ce propos, j'aimerais aussi, comme l'orateur qui m'a précédé, citer une phrase prononcée par Sa Sainteté le pape Jean-Paul II devant le Conseil exécutif, le 2 juin dernier, à l'occasion de sa visite au Siège de l'Unesco : "La culture est ce par quoi l'homme en tant qu'homme 'est' davantage, accède davantage à l''être'" ... "et la tâche première et essentielle de la culture en général, et aussi de toute culture, est l'éducation. L'éducation, en effet, consiste à ce que l'homme devienne toujours plus homme, qu'il puisse 'être' davantage et pas seule- ment qu'il puisse 'avoir' davantage...". C'est bien cet esprit qui se traduit dans le secteur éducatif par une tendance vers la transmission de pouvoirs aux ensei- gnants, voire aux parents et aux étudiants pour qu'ils participent & la gestion des écoles et à la mise au point des programmes. En effet, la hiérarchie tradition- nelle qui existe dans le secteur de l'éducation n'est pas faite pour préparer les jeunes à participer pleinement à un système démocratique de gouvernement : la démo- cratie naît et survit dans et par les parlements, les partis et les syndicats, et non pas par les seules écoles. La consolidation de la démocratie risque d'être compromise par des systèmes éducatifs incapables d'aider les jeunes à s'intéresser à la politique et à acquérir les connaissances, les attitudes et le savoir qui font des citoyens concernés et participants, efficaces, critiques et donc respon- sables. Nul doute que l'Unesco et le Conseil de l'Europe doivent coordonner leurs efforts dans ce sens.
24.6 La plupart des activités de l'Unesco dans ce domaine se déroulent cependant dans des pays en développement, tandis que celles du Conseil de l'Europe .con- cernent les démocraties occidentales, encore qu'on ne puisse suspecter le Conseil de l'Europe d'égoïsme culturel. Je me référerai, pour en fournir une preuve supplé- mentaire, à votre programme d'alphabétisation préconisant une approche globale de ce problème planétaire. Les pays en voie de développement ne sont cependant pas les seuls en cause et les travaux de l'Assemblée sur la pauvreté en Europe, de même que les activités du Conseil de l'Europe en faveur du développement équilibré en Europe, attireront certainement aussi l'attention sur l'analphabétisme dans le quart monde des pays développés.
24.7 Un autre défi est également lancé à notre génération : pour la première fois depuis des siècles, force est de constater l'inadaptation, pour nombre d'entre nous, de l'Etat-Nation comme centre de la toute-puissance. Les problèmes du monde moderne sont beaucoup trop complexes pour trouver leur solution au seul niveau national et nous devons associer nos efforts pour apporter des solutions à un nombre croissant de problèmes internationaux tels que la protection de l'environne- ment, tant naturel qu'artistique, pour ne citer qu'un exemple.
24.8 Vous ne serez point surpris d'apprendre que c'est avec un grand intérêt que le Conseil de l'Europe a également pris connaissance de votre programme sur les droits de l'homme et l'éducation mis sur pied à la suite du Congrès international de Vienne de 1978. Nous avons toujours suivi avec une grande attention les activi- tés de l'Unesco dans ce domaine, et plus particulièrement encore depuis la Confé- rence générale de Nairobi.
24.9 Les Etats membres du Conseil de l'Europe, vous le savez, disposent d'un in- comparable mécanisme supranational de protection des droits de l'homme entendus comme les droits civils et politiques consacrés par la Déclaration des droits de l'homme des Nations Unies qui doit aussi guider l'action de l'Unesco. La Charte sociale européenne, signée à Turin en 1961, prévoit pour sa part la protection des droits économiques, sociaux et culturels. La conception que nous avons des droits de l'homme s'est sans doute parfois montrée fondamentalement divergente, mais notre sensibilité à cet égard n'en est pas moins comparable.
24.10 La protection des droits de l'homme exige en effet une vigilance constante dans tout Etat démocratique. Les gouvernements de nos Etats membres étant par na- ture des gouvernements majoritaires, il importe de sauvegarder particulièrement les droits des minorités, que ces minorités soient religieuses, raciales ou autres. Cependant, les droits de l'individu sont aussi rendus plus vulnérables par l'évolution de la société moderne dont la complexité et l'opacité exigent souvent des méthodes d'administration appliquant aux individus une uniformité de traite- ment qui est parfois mal adaptée à l'extraordinaire diversité des situations et des besoins humains. Nos Etats membres ont, bien entendu, chacun des dispositions    propres pour assurer la protection des droits de l'homme, mais au-dessus de ces dispositions, la Convention européenne des droits de l'homme adoptée au Conseil de l'Europe, en reconnaissant à juste titre que ces droits transcendent la souverai- neté nationale, constitue un système judiciaire de garantie internationale des droits de l'homme, un exemple unique de mise en oeuvre effective de ces principes,
1'individu devenant ainsi un véritable sujet de droit international.
24.11 On peut peut-être reprocher sa lenteur 3 notre système européen de protec- tion des droits de l'homme. Il n'en reste pas moins un mécanisme d'une importance capitale et dont l'exemplarité ne peut être méconnue.
24.12 C'est pourquoi le Conseil de l'Europe croit au rôle qu'il peut jouer en matière de droits de l'homme dans le contexte plus large des Nations Unies et es- time avec ses Etats membres qu'il doit contribuer à une plus grande clarté et ri- gueur de conception dans un domaine où la confusion et le flou sont parfois délibé- rément entretenus, surtout depuis le vote en décembre 1977 de la résolution 32/130 par l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies. Cette résolution accorde une nouvelle priorité en matière de droits de l'homme et de leur protection internationale aux droits des "peuples" et des "nations", tranchant singulièrement avec les termes et l'esprit de la Déclaration universelle des droits de l'homme de 1948 qui, en ce qui concerne les droits de l'homme, ne mentionne que les droits fondamentaux de l'homme dérivant de la dignité et de la valeur de la personne humaine, tels qu'ils sont reconnus dans la Charte.
24.13 Malgré et peut-être A cause de ces divergences, permettez-moi d'affirmer que notre action dans ce domaine est plus que jamais complémentaire. Dans ce con- texte, j'aimerais rappeler, d'une part la Déclaration des droits de l'homme adop- tée le 27 avril 1978 par les représentants des Etats membres du Conseil de l'Europe réunis au Comité des ministres, par laquelle ils se sont engagés "à parti- ciper activement à la sauvegarde et au développement des droits de l'homme et des libertés fondamentales, y compris, dans un sens plus large, les droits relevant des domaines social, économique et culturel, contribuant ainsi au renforcement de la paix et de la sécurité mondiales et de la coopération internationale ainsi qu'au progrès économique et social de tous les peuples".
24.14 En effet, il a souvent été reproché au Conseil de l'Europe, dans le domaine des droits fondamentaux, de ne pas accorder aux droits économiques, sociaux et culturels la même importance qu'aux droits civils et politiques qui bénéficient d'un système de garantie juridictionnel plus efficace que les premiers. Depuis la signature de la Convention des droits de l'homme, la situation économique et so- ciale a considérablement évolué, de sorte qu'il s'avère nécessaire et possible de parfaire la protection des droits économiques, sociaux, culturels et plus spéciale- ment ceux prévus par la Charte sociale européenne en les définissant d'une façon plus précise et comme droits subjectifs.
24.15 Enfin, je me référerai à la réponse du Comité des ministres du Conseil de l'Europe à une question écrite d'un parlementaire relative aux droits de l'homme relevant de la compétence de l'Unesco dans le cadre du nouveau système de requêtes individuelles devant le Comité que vous avez spécialement institué. Dans ce con- texte, le Comité des ministres envisage la création d'un comité ad hoc d'experts sur la multiplication des procédures de plainte au niveau international.
24.16 Dans cet effort de démocratisation toujours accrue, le Conseil de 1'Europe ne néglige pas - bien au contraire - le rôle des moyens de communication de masse.
24.17 La tentation peut porter les politiciens à vouloir s'approprier les médias. C'est là un risque et un danger permanents. Il est donc vital pour nos sociétés que les médias aient la liberté - voire se fassent le devoir - de discuter et, au besoin, de critiquer les orientations politiques.
24.18 Les participants à la commission sur le thème "mass media et démocratie", organisée lors de la Conférence de l'Assemblée parlementaire sur l'évolution des institutions démocratiques en Europe en 1976, avaient conclu leurs travaux par ces termes : "les médias sont et resteront un contre-pouvoir démocratique".
24.19 C'est dans cet esprit que le Conseil de l'Europe, en collaboration avec l'Unesco, s'intéresse vivement depuis quelques années aux problèmes résultant de l'évolution rapide des moyens de communication de masse sur les plans politique aussi bien que technique.
24.20 Ces problèmes sont multiples et ont donné lieu à plusieurs rapports du Co- mité du Conseil de l'Europe couvrant à la fois la presse écrite et les médias au- diovisuels, y compris les agences de presse et d'information. Mis à part le pro- blème épineux de la concentration de la presse, problème qui demande 3 n'en pas douter des mesures d'urgence afin de garantir l'indépendance et la pluralité de la presse écrite, d'autres points nous intéressent aussi vivement. Je ne citerai, à       titre d'exemple, que les multiples questions posées quant à la libre circulation 10 des informations par l'évolution accélérée de la technologie des médias électro- niques, comme celle de la télévision par câble et, surtout des futurs satellites de télévision directe.
24.21 Les travaux menés au Conseil de l'Europe en vue de jeter les bases d'une conception générale de nature politico-juridique pour l'ensemble des médias sont - il importe de le souligner - fondés sur un principe d'une portée indéniable qui peut se résumer de la maniëre suivante : la liberté et l'indépendance de la presse, comme celles de la radiodiffusion, constituent des conditions indispen- sables à toute société politique démocratique et pluraliste.
24.22 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, ces quelques réflexions sur les moyens de sauvegarder et de préserver les démocraties doivent nous encourager à une coopération toujours plus active dans un certain nombre de domaines où nous avons un intérêt commun. Coopération au plan intergouvernemental, mais coopération au plan parlementaire également. L'Unesco est un organisme intergouvernemental ne disposant pas d'un forum parlementaire ; l'Assemblée parlementaire du Conseil de l'Europe, la plus ancienne et la plus représentative des assemblées européennes, nous offre la possibilité d'associer l'opinion publique européenne aux projets qui nous sont communs et c'est bien dans cet esprit et dans l'intérêt de nos deux orga- nisations qu'elle a eu le plaisir d'accueillir au mois d'avril dernier le Direc- teur général de l'Unesco.
24.23 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, l'esprit européen est un esprit de dialogue global : dialogue entre les pays et les systèmes, dialogue entre les peuples, dialogue entre les générations et les individus, dialogue aussi entre les adultes et la jeunesse qui fournira l'homme européen de demain. C'est un intérêt universel, qui animait déjà les fondateurs du Conseil de l'Europe dont les deux idées essentielles étaient la réalisation de l'unité européenne et la promo- tion des principales valeurs de notre civilisation, en particulier la liberté et la défense des droits fondamentaux de la personne.
24.24 Des obstacles se sont dressés sur notre chemin ; nous en rencontrerons d'autres. Mais ensemble nous les surmonterons plus facilement, en unissant notre détermination et nos imaginations et en continuant de nous référer aux principes communs qui inspirent nos actions : humanisme, diversité et universalité au ser- vice de l'homme et de ce que l'économiste François Perroux appelait une économie sans rareté dans une société sans contraintes. Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, je vous remercie de votre attention.
25. The PRESIDENT: I thank the Observer for the Council of Europe and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Tarsicio Mefie Abeso Abjaba, Military Commissioner responsible for the Ministry of Culture and Education of Equatorial Guinea and head of the delegation of Equatorial Guinea.
(26.1) Mr ABESO ABJABA (Equatorial Guinea) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr President, Mr Director-General, members of the Board, distinguished delegates: I should like to join with the other delegates, Mr President, in expressing, on behalf of my delegation, our sincere congratulations on your election to guide us in our work at this session of the General Conference. Your wealth of experience is a guarantee of your ability to direct the work of our Conference with a sure hand. Our congratulations are also due to all the members of the Board.
(26.2) Mr President: the work of national reconstruction actively undertaken by the Government of the Supreme Military Council of Equatorial Guinea since 3 August 1979, when we recovered our true freedom following the overthrow of the dictatorial regime, gave us an opportunity to request the right to join the Organization as a Member State; that request was granted, and accordingly, today, we are pleased and happy to be partici- pating as a Member State in the work of our Organization. On this basis, Mr President, our country offers unconditionally to co-operate with Unesco as far as it is able, so that, both within Equatorial Guinea and in any other state, the activities undertaken by this Organization in the fields of education, science and culture may be crowned with success. We believe that Unesco is one of the most effective instruments for carrying out our common task, in view of its extensive field of educational activity, its. highly effective aid and co-operation and the confidence that it never fails to inspire.
(26.3) On joining the Organization as a Member State it was our intention to follow the example of other countries by organizing, through our Ministry of Education, Culture, Youth and Sport, a National Commission for co-operation with Unesco; but a number of dif- ficulties have so far prevented us from achieving this. Nevertheless, we ask for the Organization's support in this undertaking, since a National Commission for Unesco in Equatorial Guinea would help us to carry out swiftly and successfully all the joint projects planned by the government and the Organization.
(26.4) Mr President: the manifold humanitarian tasks that our Organization is accomplish- ing in many parts of the world are a source of admiration in Equatorial Guinea, and we urge that their number be steadily increased, particularly in the countries of the so- called Third World, which are a prey to illiteracy and so many natural disasters, until these evils have been totally eradicated.
(26.5) Mr President: in a world rife with social injustice, we understand the major difficulties that our Organization is facing and will continue to face, owing to the unjust scheming of certain human beings against others, which make it impossible for everyone to receive adequate education and training. The discriminatory actions being perpetrated in certain parts of the globe are serious obstacles to our Organization's free development and the accomplishment of its mission; the military tensions now obtain- ing in certain areas, where thousands and thousands of children, women and old people, all of them innocent, die every day because of the ambitions or fanaticism of a few, are a dangerous threat to world peace. However, all these phenomena are caused by men, and through this Conference we appeal to all of them to stop destroying themselves and to join this Organization, which was established to carry the sacred work of education to all parts of the world.
(26.6) Mr President: my government wishes to emphasize the vital importance to life in society of education and communication, which are so necessary to the development of the individual. In fact, on the first anniversary of the freedom coup, on 3 August this year, His Excellency the President of the Supreme Military Council, Lieutenant-Colonel Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, in his speech to the nation, made the following remarks: "The people of Equatorial Guinea have completed one year of freedom and enjoyment of their rights as ‘a country and as a state. While I congratulate you on this, I should like you to dis- cover the true meaning of the reconstruction advocated by the Supreme Military Council. The reconstruction of a country should be based on social reconciliation in all spheres, gradually mending the deep rifts that the past has torn between various groups, and de- voting ourselves whole-heartedly to building a new society, capable of restoring our    happiness, our well-being and the values that have been such a distinguishing feature of the African people of Equatorial Guinea. I place all my trust in education and com- munication, which have a leading role to play in this work of reconciliation and reconstruction".
(26.7) For this reason,’ our delegation wishes to support the draft resolution submitted by several Member States concerning the restitution of cultural property. We all take pleasure in the sight or the performance of a magnificent work of art, in a painting of a beautiful landscape or the fine lines of a piece of sculpture; they are things that fascinate us, cheer us and hold our attention, and in many cases this hinders us from seeing them as creations of the human spirit, the work of a master's hand or of an exceptional mind that devotes time and material resources to the task of pleasing us all. There is no lack of artists who try to use art as their main source of income, and spend their lives producing work that brings in money rather than creating works of value. I am not speaking of these people. There are artists who have an authentic vocation, artists of genius who try to draw on nature's resources and their own in order to pour ultimate expression into their works, and thus in many cases they are forgetful of their own interests. These are the artists who need attention and help. There is one very common feature in the life of the best artists, and that is that they are virtually none of them rich. They give themselves completely to art, and in doing so they deplete all their resources. We should help them. If I had to speak of the living conditions of the artists of the entire world, I should have only this recommendation to make to Member States: support the strongest and most solvent artists and bring together the weakest in small guilds so that they can be better protected.
(26.8) After these general considerations, I should like to dwell for a moment on the African artist. I am not sure to what extent African artists may be of interest. The super-civilized countries seem to have exhausted all artistic possibilities. However, when we begin to study the African arts, we find a series of testimonials to ancient African culture in the form of the pyramids of Egypt, and, nearby, the tombs of the Pharaohs, which were undoubtedly the cradle of African art. The history of ancient Egypt reveals the presence of the Bantu race, to which many Africans belong. Fetishes and their mysterious rites, amulets and tattoos, and the rapid and vigorous rhythm of the tom-tom are all reminders of what may be a very distant past; they are all traces of African history.
(26.9) There were difficult times for African art during the colonial period. Artefacts such as fetishes and amulets were an obstacle to the advance of the religion and culture of the colonizer, and they had to be jettisoned, but sometimes this was done so thoroughly that they disappeared completely, taking art and the history of art with them.” "There was no lack of artists and scientists among the colonizers who were able to procure fine examples of African works of art, to be kept carefully in the museums of their countries. Decolonization and the new-found independence of African countries are reawakening the hope of an upsurge of new artistic values, and herald glorious times for African art. But there are few typically African artists. The modern movements are trying to efface their distinctive features. We must bring African art back to life, because it contains the whole history of this continent, with all its mysteries. We must bring African artists together in associations or small guilds and do all we can to help them understand the importance of that art and the interest aroused in tourists from all over the world by the mysteries of the African jungle.
(26.10) I should now like to turn to the situation of education in Equatorial Guinea.
(26.11) The Supreme Military Council took over the government of a country whose citizens' only right was the right to die; where the most elementary freedoms of the individual were denied; and where disease, famine and death were customary evils afflicting the greater part of the population.
(26.12) One aspect of this apocalyptic situation, from 1968 to 1979, was a merciless persecution of the teaching profession, which resulted in the exile of a large number of teachers and the deaths of others, and thus virtually brought the education system of Equatorial Guinea to a standstill.
(26.13) Although burdened with this deplorable heritage, our efforts during this first year have resulted in the provision of education for more than 45,000 children of pre- school age - four or five years old - and primary-school age - six to thirteen, who are taught by 770 teachers; the qualifications of the latter range from adequate and approved secondary training to training that is so rudimentary that it equips them only to give children the elements of literacy.
(26.14) With regard to secondary and vocational education, enrolments in our secondary level centres amount to 2,729 pupils, taught by 117 teachers who are nationals of Equatorial Guinea and who have received training at various levels, although in most cases this is inadequate, and 42 foreign teachers, who are graduates. In the vocational training centres, enrolments amount to 216 pupils taught by 27 teachers who are nationals of Equatorial Guinea and who, in most cases, still need to complete their training, and by 15 foreign teachers with appropriate qualifications and training. At the level that we may regard as higher, there is a teacher-training college in Bata, with 74 students and 8 teachers, and a technical college in Malabo, which offers administrative and teacher-training courses, with an enrolment of 252 students and 9 teachers, most of whom are foreigners and hold degrees or doctorates.
(26.15) With regard to the material equipment of the various levels and centres of edu- cation, the needs are urgent and undeniable, both for school buildings - most of which are dilapidated, except for those located in Bata and Mongomo - and for school furniture and teaching materials.
(26.16) It is certain that the number and variety of forces working against education make for levels of educational performance that could be described as alarming: for example, 90.5 per cent of the total number of primary-school pupils do not progress beyond the infants' stage and the first three years. In secondary education and vocational train- ing the standards may also be considered very low.
(26.17) Rather than taking up any more of your valuable time, distinguished delegates, my government will inform the Organization of the action needed to improve this situation through our permanent delegation.
(26.18) Mr President: I would not wish to close this brief speech without expressing, on behalf of my government, our thanks to the Director-General for his whole-hearted dedication to the work of our Organization, as he strives, with integrity and in active collaboration with the members of the Secretariat and of the Executive Board, to ensure Unesco's prosperity and success. Allow me, then, Mr Director-General, to reaffirm our total and unconditional support for your re-election as the head of our Organization. We congratulate you sincerely in advance on what we trust will be your continuing successes.
(26.19) Nor would we wish, Mr President, to hide our pleasure at the warmth with which our delegation has been welcomed by the Yugoslav people, who are renowned for their friendly hospitality. We congratulate this illustrious people and its authorities on their splendid arrangements for this Conference, which has carried out its business so far in an atmos- phere of great cordiality.
(26.20) Lastly, having listened attentively to the admirable report submitted to the Conference by the Director-General, which we resolutely support, we are very concerned to learn that a staff member of our Organization has been deprived of his freedom in a member country. We should like to join with the Director-General and many other dele- gates who have already spoken in asking the authorities of that friendly country for the release of the staff member concerned. However, we should like to appeal to the Organi- zation to remember that staff members must devote themselves solely to the fulfilment of the obligation placed upon them in the countries concerned, as stipulated in the staff rules, and must avoid situations such as the one that is causing concern at present.
(26.21) Mr President: as I stated at the beginning of my speech, the Republic of Equa- torial Guinea will always give Unesco its unconditional support in the field of cultural and scientific co-operation, in all action to improve the status of women, to safeguard human rights and to promote the advancement of mankind, and in all action to ensure the development and effective operation of this Organization. At the same time, we condemn all types and forms of discrimination in education. Long live Unesco. Thank you very much.
27.1 The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the delegation of Equatorial Guinea, who was our last speaker for today.
27.2 Before we adjourn, I shall give the floor to the Secretary for an announcement. ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SECRETARY CONCERNING THE COMPOSITION OF THE DRAFTING AND NEGOTIATION GROUP COMMUNICATION DU SECRETAIRE CONCERNANT LA COMPOSITION DU GROUPE DE REDACTION ET DE NEGOCIATION COMUNICACION DEL SECRETARIO RELATIVA A LA COMPOSICION DEL GRUPO DE REDACCION Y DE NEGOCIACION СООБЩЕНИЕ СЕКРЕТАРЯ ОТНОСИТЕЛЬНО СОСТАВА ГРУППЫ ПО РЕДАКТИРОВАНИЮ И СОГЛАСОВАНИЮ PIENSAN Jaoly e ‎سلا«نياجج
28. Le SECRETAIRE.- Monsieur le Président, je dois informer la Conférence générale, qu'en vertu d'un accord intervenu au sein du Groupe électoral III (Amérique latine et Ca- raîbes), le Brésil remplace la Colombie comme membre du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation, dont la composition vous a été annoncée hier.
29.1 The PRESIDENT: I thank the Secretary.
29.2 Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our work for today. The meeting is adjourned. The-meeting” rose at” 730 p.m. La séance est levée à 19 h.30 Se levanta la sesión a las 19.30 Заседание закрывается в 19.30 HitLAN SES wilde ais Ye ZUFT7H3044