Sixth plenary meeting
25 September 1980 at 4.15 p.m. President: Mr MARGAN (Yugoslavia) Sixième séance plénière
3 Stang lets pe Joel ‎/ربمتبس То ‎(ايفالسوغوي)ناجرام dl:eAl AS В A FERRELL EE: BARRE CHAR)     SECOND SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE DEUXIEME RAPPORT SUPPLEMENTAIRE DU PRESIDENT DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES POUVOIRS SEGUNDO INFORME COMPLEMENTARIO DEL PRESIDENTE DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION DE PODERES ВТОРОЙ ДОПОЛНИТЕЛЬНЫЙ ДОКЛАД ПРЕДСЕДАТЕЛЯ КОМИТЕТА ПО ПРОВЕРКЕ ПОЛНОМОЧИЙ Ladريرقتلا puntyp) GQ LI GALYNدامتعالاقئاثوصحف‏ <2 7ЕК
1. The PRESIDENT: Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the sixth plenary meeting open. Before commencing the general policy debate, we shall examine the Second Supplementary Report by the Chairman of the Credentials Committee, and I give the floor to its Chairman.
2.1 Mr ARYAL (Nepal), Chairman of the Credentials Committee: Mr President, in accordance with the authorization given to me by the Committee at its meeting earlier today, I have the honour to submit to the General Conference the following new information concerning credentials received by the Director- General.
2.2 Credentials in due form have been received from Mexico and Sudan. 1 propose to the General Conference that the delegations of these Member States be admitted to take part in the work of the twenty-first session of the General Conference.
2.3 Credentials in due form have been received from a number of Member States which had previously submitted provisional credentials. The Member States con- cerned are: Bahrain, Democratic Yemen, Ecuador, Greece, Madagascar, Morocco, Sri Lanka and Turkey. I propose to the General Conference that the delegations of these Member States be admitted to take part in the work of the twenty-first session of the General Conference.
2.4 Provisional credentials have been received from Sierra Leone and Zimbabwe. In accordance with the authorization given to me by the Committee, I propose to the General Conference that, subject to later presentation of credentials in due form, the delegations of these two Member States be allowed to take part in the work of the twenty-first session of the General Conference. Thank you, Mr President.
3.1 he PRESIDENT: 1 ; I thank the Chairman of the Credentials Committee. Are there any questions concerning the proposals of the Credentials Committee?
3.2 I give the floor to the delegate of the United Kingdom.
4.1 Mr KIRKNESS (United Kingdom) : Thank you, Mr President. I have no comment on the report which the Chairman has just given and I am content to agree with what he proposes, but I should like to take this opportunity of saying something in relation to the First Supplementary Report which he gave us yesterday, and I regret that it was not possible for me to do so earlier.
4.2 Speaking on behalf of my government and also of the Governments of France and the United States of America who are co-signatories of the Quadripartite Agree- ment of 3 September 1971 in relation to Berlin, I wish to make the following state- ment concerning the First Supplementary Report by the Chairman of the Credentials Committee: This report contains a letter from the delegation of the German Demo- cratic Republic which was read into the record. This suggested that, in accordance with the Quadripartite Agreement of 3 September 1971, persons domiciled in the western sectors of Berlin may not be designated as members of delegations represent- ing the State or Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, and that the inclusion of Professor von Simson in the delegation to the Conference was therefore illegal. Mr President, the three delegations concerned would like to comment that States which are not Parties to that Quadripartite Agreement are not competent to comment authoritatively on its provisions. There is nothing in the Quadripartite Agreement which supports the contention that residents of the western sectors of Berlin may not be included in delegations of the Federal Republic of Germany to international conferences. In fact, Annex IV of the Quadripartite Agreement sti- pulates that, provided matters of security and status are not affected, residents of the western sectors of Berlin may participate jointly with participants from the Federal Republic of Germany in international exchanges. Furthermore, as a matter of principle, it is for the Federal Republic of Germany alone to decide on the composition of its delegation.
4.3 Mr President, we therefore wholly reject the statements made by the delegation of the German Democratic Republic, and would request that this statement of mine be recorded in the proceedings of the Conference. Thank you, Mr President.
5. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. Are there any further speakers? I give the floor to the delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany.
6.1 Mr FABRICIUS (Federal Republic of Germany): Mr President, in the same context I wish to make the following statement: I must confess that I am slightly surprised and saddened by the objection raised by a distinguished delegate, as reflected in yesterday's report of the Credentials Committee, against the participation of an eminent member of our delegation because this member lives in the western sector of Berlin. We should like tc express our strong support for the statement made in this connection by the delegate of the United Kingdom.
6.2 In addition, I feel that - as the question has been raised by others — I have to present a detailed statement of our view.
6.3 Already in 1952, the three powers conferred upon the Federal Republic of Germany the authority to represent Berlin (West) in matters not referring to the security “and the “status 6f“the“city.
6.4 The Quadripartite Agreement of 1971 contains the explicit agreement of the Soviet Union in Annex IV.B that in such matters as referred to above, no objections will be made by her against the representation of Berlin (West) by the Federal Republic of Germany in international organizations and against the inclusion of persons with permanent residence in Berlin (West) in our delegations for inter- national exchange.
6.5 It is, therefore, completely in accordance with the Quadripartite Agreement that those members of our delegation whose permanent residence is in Berlin (West) have every right to be included in this delegation and enjoy exactly the same rights and privileges and have the same status as any other member of the delegation.
6.6 I may add that the member of our delegation whose participation has been opposed by the distinguished delegate of the German Democratic Republic is the President of our National Commission for Unesco, and in that capacity has partici- pated at previous General Conference sessions as a member of the delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany. Thank you, Mr President.
7.1 The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. Does any other delegation wish to make a statement or to comment in any way on the Second Supplementary Report by the Chairman of the Credentials Committee? If not, are you willing to accept this report? Are there any objections? I see none. Thank you.
7.2 The Second Supplementary Report by the Chairman of the Credentials Committee is adopted. GENERAL POLICY DEBATE/DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE/DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL/ ОБСУЖДЕНИЕ ВОПРОСОВ ОБЩЕЙ ПОЛИТИКИ/ ‎ةماعلاةسايسلاةشقانم /SICA
8 The PRESIDENT: We can now open our general policy debate. I give the floor to the first speaker, H.E. Mr José R. Fernandez, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers and Minister of Education of Cuba, head of the Cuban delegation.
(9.1) Mr FERNANDEZ (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish): Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished representatives of the world of edu- cation, science and culture. I am taking advantage of the extensive forum provided by this Conference to call attention to the educational efforts of a small, underdeveloped country, without material resources, which has inherited centuries of backwardness; to publicize the educational activities of a nation on which obloquy has been heaped by the international press, a nation blockaded by the most powerful empire in the world, and one which has indubitably, as most of you know and will be able to confirm during my address, accomplished great feats in the field of education, science and culture.
(9.2) "History has taught us", said the Chairman of the Movement of the Non-Aligned Countries, Commander-in-Chief Fidel Castro, at the thirty-fourth session of the United Nations General Assembly, "that accession to independence for a nation which is setting itself free from the colonial and neo-colonial system is at once the final act of a long struggle and the first of a new and hard-fought battle. This is because the independence, sovereignty and liberty of our peoples, who are apparently free, are continually threatened by foreign control of our natural resources, by the financial levies of official inter- national bodies, and by the instability of their economies which detracts from their full sovereignty".
(9.3) The revolutionary victory of 1 January 1959 was for Cuba the ultimate triumph of that period of neo-colonialism, which had led to more than a million illiterates, 600,000 children without schools, hundreds of thousands of insufficiently educated adults, and half a million unemployed, of which ten thousand were schoolteachers. The educational phase of the Revolution began with the extension of educational services to all corners of the country. To provide school places for all children was a pledge kept from the first months of the Revolution. In the history of present-day Cuban education, there is ample record of the fact that in September 1959 alone, ten thousand new classrooms were brought into use simultaneously, half of them in rural areas; and this, in fact, was the total number existing during the colonial and neo-colonial era. Today we can boast that 98.5 per cent of children between the ages of 6 and 12 go to school, and that 92 per cent of children and young people between the ages of 6 and 16 attend an educational centre of some kind.
(9.4) In 1961 the great Literacy Campaign was carried out. It was a mammoth task, con- ducted by students, workers, teachers, housewives and peasants, and which, in conjunction with schooling for all children, wiped out illiteracy and its roots from our country once and for all. Today, illiteracy is no more than one chapter of a period of darkness in our cultural development, and the history of the Campaign is preserved in a museum, as an example to the present and future generations of America and the World. When other coun- tries of America, Asia and Africa achieve feats of literacy teaching, Cuba rejoices at all that this means, and with the pleasure of knowing that they have chosen the right way of ensuring that the population as a whole participates in solutions to educational problems.
(9.5) What is the real situation of education in Cuba today? In the last school year,
1979-1980, more than 3,453,000 students enrolled in the various centres of the National Education System. In other words, there was one student for every 2.83 inhabitants. The distribution of the majority of enrolments in the current school year, not counting the
350 thousand adult pupils, forms an educational pyramid which shows a substantial improve- ment, and is reasonably close to that of more developed countries: pupils in primary education: 1,480,000; pupils in secondary education: 1,159,000; students in higher edu- cation 215,000,
(9.6) In other words, out of every 100 pupils, 53.8 are receiving primary education,
39.0 secondary education and 7.2 university education. This proportion, which is somewhat higher than in previous years, is achieved on high enrolment rates based on genuine demo- cratization of education. In the current school year, enrolment in primary education is
2.48 times greater than before the Revolution; enrolment in secondary education is 13 times greater than before the Revolution; and there are now 13.3 times more university students than in the year before the Revolution.
(9.7) There is no doubt that the effort made with education during the revolutionary pro- cess has produced a concentration of quality in recent years, and today the fruits are being reaped of this vast undertaking of which we speak here with all modesty and as one contribution by Cuba to Unesco's objectives. If we compare the results of the last five- year period, 1976-1980, with previous five-year periods of the revolutionary process, we can see the quantitative and qualitative leap that has been made in education in our country as a result of a systematic endeavour carried out over the years. Although the birth rate has fallen appreciably since 1965, in the last five-year period, 1976-1980, there were 1,290,000 children who completed the sixth grade, a figure which is practically twice as high as that for the previous five-year period, and higher than that for the first fifteen years of the revolutionary process.
(9.8) At the same time, the results of the secondary education explosion can be graphically illustrated by comparing this last five-year period with earlier periods: in the last five-year period 574,000 pupils completed basic secondary education, and this is a figure which is 7.2 times higher than that for the previous five years and 3.2 times the figure for the first fifteen years of the Revolution; 105,000 students completed pre-university education during the period 1976-1980, a number 1.7 times that of the preceding fifteen years; during this last five-year period, 165,000 students qualified as middle-level tech- nicians and skilled workers - 1.7 times the number of technicians who ‘qualified during the first fifteen years of the Revolution; during the period 1976-1980, 62,700 top-level professionals graduated, i.e. three times the number of graduates that there were in the fifteen years of the revolutionary period.
(9.9) When the Literacy Campaign ended, a whole subsystem of adult education was gradually built up, and this today links up with the key General Polytechnic and Worker Education system. In this last five-year period alone, there have been more than 850,000 students completing the sixth grade, 115,000 finishing courses at Worker Secondary schools or basic secondary education establishments and 41,000 graduating from universities of higher secondary education.
(9.10) Today all the teachers in our country's primary schools are qualified, and courses have been organized to enable them to attain an even higher level within the next few years. Arrangements have also been made for the systematic further training and advanced training of secondary teachers who, because of the very rapid extension of education, have been employed as teachers without proper training. Successful training of teachers and the great internationalist spirit of our people have enabled more than 3,500 teachers and educational advisers to serve in nearly a dozen countries, modestly, selflessly and with exemplary discipline.
(9.11) Since 1973, a systematic effort has been made to transform syllabuses, curricula, textbooks, methods, handbooks and teaching media so as to offer new generations adequate training in the essential aspects of personal development and professional standards. This represents an extraordinary effort to prepare workers, middle technicians, teachers and senior personnel to meet the needs of our country's economic and social development. We have called this whole task of thoroughgoing educational reform the Perfecting of the National Educational System, and this has led us to revise carefully all school curricula and to prepare and publish 622 new textbooks as well as methods handbooks and activity log-books. This thorough change in Cuban schools, this effort to ensure that education was able to meet the challenge of the scientific and technical revolution, has meant that year after year from 1975 onwards, an annual average of 23 million textbooks have been printed.
(9.12) Mr President, one of the most signal achievements of Cuban education is that it now guarantees that pupils emerging from primary and secondary schools can continue their education. At the end of this last school year, there were 240,000 pupils completing the sixth grade at the country's primary schools, 120,000 pupils completing basic secondary education and 30,200 finishing pre-university institutions. The national education system has ensured that every one of these pupils can receive further education. For this pur- pose, an extensive system of special centres for scholarship holders was established years ago, and there are now 600,000 boarding pupils attending them.
(9.13) In higher education there are today 39 centres offering 167 specialities and 144 specializations. The enrolment structure by groups of specialities shows that most students read the technical sciences, medicine, education and agriculture.
(9.14) There is an extraordinary desire to excel in the professional categories. There are over 650 students studying for their Doctorate of Science in centres of higher education.
(9.15) One of the principles governing Cuban education as a whole is the combination of study and work. The application of this principle at the various educational levels, starting with elementary education, through school farms and particularly in the School for the Country and in the Country, as well as in Technical Education and Vocational Edu- cation combines two important objectives, the one formative and the other concerned with productive and social work. The formative element seeks to develop the awareness of a producer of social benefits and gradually to establish conditions for eliminating the prejudices that arise from the division between manual and intellectual work. The economic element aims at incorporating into production and social work the work capacity of hundreds of thousands of school pupils who, by dividing their time suitably between normal study and participation in productive work and cultural, artistic, sporting and recreational activities, can receive a many-sided, harmonious education. The study-cum-work principle has been gaining ground and has shown itself to be completely effective.
(9.16) Eleven per cent of the country's gross social product is spent on education. A sum of 1,350 million pesos has been ear-marked for education in 1980. The country spends    the equivalent of 113 pesos per capita on education, 16 times as much as it did in the year before the Revolution. At present there are more than 100 research centres in which some
21,000 professional and technical staff are employed. Because of this resource potential, it has been necessary to formulate an integral science and technology policy which accords a priority role to research for production without diminishing the importance of basic research.
(9.17) The research being currently conducted by the Cuban cosmonaut in orbit in the satellite Soyuz-Saliut, is a manifestation of the extreme concern for the development of science and technology in our country, and of the fraternal and disinterested co-operation of the Soviet Union in the utilization of cosmic space.
(9.18) Since the triumph of the Revolution, particular attention has been devoted to the problems of art and literature. Our most outstanding writers and artists are expressions of a culture that is profoundly rooted in our people but which is sensitive to the univer- sality that all real art reflects and to the Latin-American bias of our greatest traditions. Cuba has achieved outstanding development in all art forms. Cuban cinema has won inter- national awards; the National Ballet Company has successfully performed on the greatest stages of the world; more than 43 million copies of books were produced in 1979; in a word, every artistic expression meets with the enthusiasm necessary for it to develop as it ought.
(9.19) We would like to point out that one of the most important and significant projects in the field of culture is the plan to declare Old Havana part of the Cultural Heritage of Mankind.
(9.20) Physical education is compulsory from pre-school age to the third year of higher education. A schools sports programme is being organized which will culminate in the annual National School Games in which 13,000 athletes who have been successful in the intermediate stages will compete. Today our country is a world sporting power as was proved at the magnificent 1980 Moscow Olympiad.
(9.21) In the Mexico Declaration of December 1979, the Ministers of Education and those Responsible for Economic Planning of Member States in Latin America and the Caribbean, pledged to eradicate illiteracy before the end of the century, to provide eight to ten years minimum of general education for the children of their respective countries and allocate a budget of no less than 7 or 8 per cent of their gross national product for education.
(9.22) Twenty years before the beginning of the twenty-first century, our country can say that these aspirations are now a reality in revolutionary Cuba, that real access to education of all the social strata of the population is guaranteed by a provision of the Constitution which establishes free education, and by the operation of a broad, coherent, integral and single education system. Cuba's example shows that it is essential to carry out far-reaching economic and social changes which enable the population at large to have real access to education.
(9.23) Transforming an underdeveloped and technologically backward economy calls for well- educated workers and techriicians of the highest level, possessing the general culture necessary to assimilate the scientific and technological changes that are taking place in the world today. But how can poor countries extend educational services to their entire population if their economies are backward, unproductive and distorted? Let us recall the words of the President of the Non-Aligned Movement with reference to unequal exchange, the inflation which is exported to us, and the protectionism which is ruining our peoples. At the Sixth Summit, it was urged that a close look should be taken at a world in which the revenue of the developing countries is inadequate, arms expenditure is beyond all reason and the prevailing international monetary system is in a state of bankruptcy; a world in which the developing countries are economically crushed by foreign debts and in which the gulf separating the developed countries from those which are striving for development is becoming wider instead of narrower; a world in which there are children who have neither bread nor teachers, and sick people who have neither doctors nor medicine.
(9.24) This requires us to give serious thought to the peaceful and wise solution to pre- sent injustices and inequalities, so as to avoid an apocalyptic future for mankind. This is why the countries of the Non-Aligned Movement proclaim the need to apply concrete formulae for the eradication of these inequalities so that peace can be enjoyed by great and small, powerful and weak alike, can extend to all corners of the world and touch all citizens of ;all countries.
(9-25): Today, in this Assembly of the world community, Cuba - as a Member of Unesco and also a member of the Non-Aligned Movement - reinterates that there can be no education or development without peace, and proclaims the need to do away with the arms race policy and the need for all of us to dedicate ourselves in a civilized manner to finding solutions to the more burdensome problems of our times, as a sine qua non for man's survival.
(9.26) Mr President. Priority attention has been given to the development of science and technology in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983. We consider this programme and budget to be much more concentrated, in substance and in form, than previous programmes and budgets.
(9.27) The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization was created
34 years ago. Since then this Organizaticn has been striving so that the wide dissemination of culture and the education of mankind contribute to justice, liberty and peace. For Cuba, which pleads for the attainment of the objectives which were the foundations on which Unesco was built, it is a sacred duty to struggle responsibly and in the spirit of inter- nationalism for peace among nations, for collaboration between nations, for universal res- pect for justice, for human rights and fundamental freedoms, without distinction of race, Sex’ or religion. I thank you.
(11.1) Mr HARB (Lebanon) (Translation from the Arabic): Mr President, Excellencies, Ministers and Heads of Delegation, ladies and gentlemen, I must begin Lebanon's address by offering, in my turn, my congratulations to the President of the session and expressing my full confidence that the business of the Conference will be expertly conducted, with his skilful guidance and his clear understanding of Unesco's great importance for both the contemporary world and the world of the future, the elements of whose construction we have in our hands today.
(11.2) When I consider the judicious resolutions that will be adopted under his enlightened presidency, I feel confident about the future of Unesco, and I have no doubt that the Organization will continue to advance in the service of the worthiest goals, encompassing all that is most deeply rooted and greatest in the human heritage, and carrying with it humanity's most far-reaching and loftiest hopes. And this is natural enough in view of the fact that the Conference is being held in a noble and hospitable country whose proud people are known for their championing of the ideals on which Unesco is founded, and who have amply earned our thanks, our admiration and our esteem. We also hope that they will con- tinue to flourish, following the way pointed out and initially travelled by their great leader, the late Marshal Tito.
(11.3) I shall also take advantage of this opportunity to express my sincere appreciation for a friend of Lebanon, our esteemed Director-General, who has been able throughout his mandate to pursue the lofty goals toward which the Organization strives and who has achieved many of its objectives by following, in his energetic activity, a new approach to the active orientation of Member States and has transformed the Organization into a vital agency which works swiftly to keep ahead of events and find solutions to problems. I should also like to express Lebanon's thanks for the sincere efforts expended by the Director-General in helping our country in its hour of sore trial, by giving effect to the decision taken by the Executive Board at its 109th session to assist in the rebuilding and recovery of Lebanon.
(11.4) Ladies and gentlemen: only recently, at the opening meeting of this session, I heard the President of this great country, under whose gracious patronage that meeting was held, speak of his country and how it is composed of a number of peoples and com- munities which have consented to live together as a single nation; he offered Yugoslavia as a lesson in coexistence for the peoples of the world. And today I still hear the echo of those words resounding in this hall, moving us all and prompting us to consider them very carefully as we contemplate a future which we fear may be fraught with peril, in view of the bitter experiences from which many peoples have suffered. Just as the President of Yugoslavia spoke of the experience of his admirable countrymen in order to instil hope into our hearts that there may be a brighter future in store for humanity, I must ask you to turn with me to a brief consideration of another country which has undertaken an experiment much like that of Yugoslavia. I refer to the making of Lebanon.
(11.5) Lebanon is a mixture of civilizations, cultures, religions and sects, all of which have united to form a single nation, within the framework of a regime consented to by our people which makes it possible to preserve our freedoms, in expression and in practice, because we believe in fundamental human rights. So here we have the result, a country which stands out as a unique example of a place where the civilizations of East and West have come together, and the Lebanese have proceeded to derive knowledge and culture from this mixture, to which all the civilizations of the world have contributed. They have given the world, riven as it is with antagonisms and rivalries, this admirable example of coexistence, which does not use the word "violence" and impels mankind to devote its efforts to the prevention of wars arising from factionalism or any hateful racist cause. Not only is this example, this Lebanon, a thing of beauty, enshrining the hopes of a human race looking ahead with anxiety to the conflicts which seem to loom ominously in its future, but it also challenges and gives the lie to numerous political formulas based on racism, or factionalism, or the suppression of individual freedom or human dignity. Such formulas make use of inward-looking ideologies that are hopelessly mired in the outmoded past; they fear the onward march of development and progress toward a better future when people will be equal and will coexist in an atmosphere of freedom, brotherhood and co- operation. Through co-operation, better opportunities can be made available in life, the nightmare of war's destruction can be banished, and an end can be put to the tragedies of hunger and subjugation which many parts of the world are experiencing today. Meanwhile, incalculable wealth is being squandered on the arms race, which constitutes a threat to the future of the human race. Instead of striving to embrace and retain this centuries- old formula for catastrophe, suppose the world were to abandon it and turn away from the hand of evil which manipulates it, with its accompanying danger of destruction and potential for annihilation. Permit me to proclaim, clearly and proudly, that the coexistence and brotherhood which Lebanon represents might well have been destroyed, but for the fact that the Lebanese people, all of them, have a deeply rooted faith, as firm as the very rocks of Lebanon, in their future and their free democratic system.
(11.6) In saying these things to you, gentlemen, I do not mean to complain, nor am I seeking to arouse your sympathy; I have simply attempted to present you with evidence of the necessity of continuing to make sacrifices and striving, all of us together, to support and encourage the examples of Yugoslavia, Lebanon and other States like them. They may constitute a healthy leaven which will grow until it encompasses the entire world in a perfect and comprehensive polity of humanity, in whose benefits the entire human race will share. Then we shall hear no more of rich nations and poor nations, or oppressing and oppressed classes, but rather we shall live in a world community guided by those noble and    humane principles which are proclaimed by Unesco and which regard man as the principle, means, end and final justification of development. I have outlined the fate that befell my country, and I suggest that Lebanon is a living illustration of what can happen to any State that takes the principles on which Unesco is based as the foundation of its political and social system. In so doing, I wish to urge you, and through you all international organizations, to make every effort to stanch the continuing human haemorrhage which is sure to lead, sooner or later, to an international conflict that will be destructive for the entire world. In this connection, I wonder what Unesco will be able to do to help countries that are stricken, and to contain the fires of tension before they reach the point where no amount of effort will be of any avail.
(11.7) A meeting such as this, bringing together delegates representing most of the countries of the world, with all their many and varied cultures, civilizations, national- ities, traditions and ideological theories, and providing them with a forum for consul- tation, discussion and co-operation, is the clearest possible evidence that we need each other, and that we share a feeling of growing unease about our future. I hope, gentlemen, that our debates will not be long drawn out to no purpose and that we will confine our attention to a single common goal, leaving regional interests to one side, and embarking upon serious consideration of a formula for ending the decline in human relations.
(11.8) Some of you may be wondering why I am saying all this at a Unesco conference, rather than at the United Nations. My answer is simple: I am dealing here with the con- cept of man as an end, as an objective; with education, science and culture, and with civilization and the human heritage; I am not concerned with political data and trends which may be far removed from the lofty principles which Unesco has proclaimed. Here, then, I am addressing myself to those who represent those principles on which our societies must be based, including the necessity of orienting education toward the cause of peace and science toward the collective moral benefits which can be derived from an understanding of its method and bases, with a view to achieving practical advantage through its appli- cation to the raising of living standards and the enhancement of human dignity. Then we shall see the integration of the two great objectives of genuine education, which are, first, the ability to think soundly and work in an organized and constructive fashion, and, secondly, respect for ethical behaviour in all aspects of life, inasmuch as that is acknowledged to be one of the fundamental bases of the good society both by Plato in the Republic and by al-Farabi in al-Madina al-Fadila.
(11.9) When such ability and respect are combined in a single remarkable individual, then the person concerned will achieve wisdom, which is the crowning adornment of culture. Such an individual may be able to find an effective response to the terrifying threat contained in the awesome power which science has released from the nuclei of atoms and of cells. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer permissible to be wilfully ignorant of the reality of the world and its evolution, which may bring us to the ultimate catastrophe, or the true situation of a culture which is reduced to subservience, or the use of information on occasion to mislead people for profit. We must resort to the laws of common decency to make sure that these things are harnessed in the service of mankind.
(11.10) We in Lebanon, guided by the fundamental principles of our Organization and with its co-operation, are doing our best to rise from the catastrophe which has befallen us, amid rubble and destruction, and to plan for the future of our education and culture in the context of a comprehensive educational and cultural policy which will lead our vision, in the near future, to the rebuilding of a healthy human society. And in implementing this plan, we shall ask Unesco for help, hoping that it will be the best possible source of help, as we have always found it to be.
(11.11) Although Lebanon has begun to plan for a better future, it is still an inter- national battleground as a result of Israel's ruthless crushing of the rights of the Palestinian people, which has now reached its ultimate point, striking the entire world, with the attempt to unify Jerusalem and to make it Israel's eternal capital - an attempt to which all forces for good must respond by uniting to nullify it at the outset.
(11.12) This Lebanon, so full of historic remains evocative of the many civilizations which have converged on its soil, remains which constitute an almost unparalleled world heritage and which relate the history of humanity for thousands of years, from the inven- tion of the alphabet - which sprang from the soil and the people of my country - to many another achievement of civilization, Lebanon expresses its thanks to the United Nations for the concern it has shown for this heritage of cilization and its call for the pre- servation of that heritage, after it had been exposed, in the city of Tyre and the sur- rounding area, to the danger of destruction. Lebanon also thanks the Director-General and the Executive Board for giving their attention to this matter, and the European Com- munity, which has adopted a resolution calling for an end to the attacks against this city and its surrounding area. Lebanon proposes to submit to the twenty-first session of the General Conference of Unesco a draft resolution aimed at protecting this part of the cultural heritage of mankind, and it hopes that the Member States will adopt it unanimously in view of Tyre's place in the world's culture.
(11.13) Ladies and gentlemen, education, science, culture and communication are intel- lectual and moral human forces which serve as an impetus and which interact in individuals and societies, directing them toward their future for better or worse. They derive their value from ancient civilizations which we had a hand in building. All that has been lost, of those civilizations, must be retrieved and set out in living form into the hearts and minds of mankind, so that we can prepare the way for a civilization that is truly world- wide in scope, one which will embody the essence of man and enhance his dignity. And within the framework of these forces and values, and the means of deriving, enhancing and disseminating them, Lebanon will seek inspiration in its glorious past, and go forward with determination to a better future. Between that seeking of inspiration and that determination, Lebanon's ties with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural    Organization will be strengthened. Lebanon was a founding member of this Organization, has always been among its supporters and has followed its principles from the first, even in the course of the past five years, when it has been so terribly afflicted, but has nevertheless held firm. Now it will rise again, with God's permission and, thanks to the determination of its people and the co-operation of its friends, will go on to unbounded horizons of greatness. Thank you.
2. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Lebanese delegation, and I now give the floor to H.E. Mr Fernando Solana, Secretary of State for Public Education of Mexico, head of the Mexican delegation.
(13.1) Mr SOLANA (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish): Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. It is a source of great pleasure for Mexico that this twenty-first session of the General Conference should take place in Yugoslavia, a nation of exemplary originality in the quest for, and construction of, new forms of social coexistence. Exemplary too, in the unflinching and constant struggle it has waged to preserve and consolidate its independence and sovereignty. A nation which gave the world one of the greatest statesmen of the twentieth century. On behalf of my delegation I pay tribute to Yugoslavia and to Marshal Tito.
(13.2) It is also a great pleasure for us, Mr Margan, to meet under your Presidency, at this assembly of the Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, whose action is daily becoming wider and more effective in every corner of the world, thanks to the support it receives from us, the Member States, and to the wise and visionary leadership of that great educator, Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow.
(13.3) The General Conferences of this Organization serve, among other important functions, to take the pulse of the development of education in the world. There is no other place where one can evaluate the trends in education and identify its problms as one can here. Twenty years away from the beginning of the next century, it is important to think about where we are heading. Are we happy with what we have achieved? Are we sure that we are on the right course? In the last two decades, the least developed countries have made enormous efforts to extend their education systems. Between 1960 and 1975, they doubled their primary-school enrolment and trebled the enrolment in secondary education. Despite this, only 62 per cent of children of primary-school age and 35 per cent of secondary- school age actually attend school.
(13.4) Literacy teaching has made great strides. None the less, the absolute number of illiterates in the world keeps rising. It has increased from 735 million in 1969 to 820 million today, and will continue to increase unless Unesco and the governments of the less developed countries take radical steps to check it. We must take these steps. It is our duty to do so. We must set ourselves the task of eradicating illiteracy among young people before the turn of the century, thereby laying the bases for its total eradication not long afterwards.
(13.5) It will become more difficult to finance education in the years to come, particu- larly in the less developed countries. The countries of Latin America and the Caribbean have consequently decided to increase substantially the resources allocated to education so as to bring them up to not less than 7 or 8 per cent of their national products.
(13.6) The quantitative aspects of the future development of education are a cause for serious concern. But the qualitative aspects are even more so, and it is on these that I wish to dwell in my address.
(13.7) For years now, and particularly since the nineteenth session of the General Conference in Nairobi in 1976, the validity of the efforts made, the practicability of existing educational models, and even the very concept of development, have been called into question.
(13.83 Nine months ago, the Regional Conference of Ministers of Education and Those Responsible for Economic Planning of Member States in Latin America and the Caribbean was held in Mexico. At this Conference, the countries of the region reached some degree of consensus on the concept of development and the contribution which education should make to it. These points of agreement were recorded in a document entitled the Mexico Declar- ation. I consider it important at this international forum provided by Unesco to share with the other countries the main points of this Declaration.
(13.9) The Declaration begins by reaffirming and enlarging the concept of development. The less industrialized countries have had to abandon development models that do not fit in with our experience or our peoples' aspirations. We do not believe that mere economic growth is tantamount to development. Our peoples' aspirations are not met by the acquisi- tion of more things, if those things do not serve to improve the quality of life of our societies. In this vein, the Declaration of the Ministers of Latin America and the Caribbean, affirms, inter alia: "That a developed nation is one whose people are well- informed, cultured, efficient, productive, responsible and possess a sense of solidarity. That no country can extend its development beyond the stage reached by its education. That development is measured not merely by the goods or resources that a community can command, but essentially by the quality of the individuals who produce or use them. That being, not having, should predominate in the framing and shaping of the overall development policies of the various countries".
(13.10) We, in Mexico, have taken these ideas for our own. Things cannot endow life with quality unless .the person who produces and uses them is himself changed. Technical skills cannot improve man's existence, unless the person who wields them is himself master of his destiny. The decisive factor is the betterment of mankind. It is to live and produce in freedom. Hence the need for us to find ways of organization that are efficient but participatory so as to ensure that the worker not only earns a wage, but that he earns a wage and has a sense of participation and the opportunity for personal creativity and fulfilment.
(13.11) Nor do we believe that the wealth of our own cultures should be sacrificed to development. We have our own values which to us are essential. They are values which our ancestors established, to a certain extent, and which we would like to see preserved by our descendants. Nor do we believe that development can be achieved merely be modern- ization and efficient organization. Modernization and efficiency, yes! But at the service of man, not as formulae that reduce man to a minor, replaceable cog in the machinery of production, particularly when production for its own sake becomes the blind priority objective of society which may finally find itself producing to provide for irrational consumerism, for wastage or, even worse, for the very destruction of mankind. We need to exist and live for ourselves, and not for systems for the production and con- sumption of inessentials.
(3212) In short, it will not suffice for us to be rich; we must also succeed in develop- ing all our human capabilities to the full. The kind of development we seek must comprise a number of characteristics of which we stress the following: it must be geared to the satisfaction of real needs, and above all else, the basic needs of the population; it must aim at greater social homogeneity, overcoming polarizations of wealth, culture and power; it must guarantee an area of personal and collective freedom for the development of non- economic values; it must involve participation and be based on a consensus of all the groups that make up a society.
(13.13) Those are the fundamental characteristics of development, which coincide with the ideas set down in the Declaration of the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean, and which, on the instructions of the President of Mexico, José López Portillo, now determine my country's educational policy.
(13.14) This conception of development implies very precise functions for education. First of all, education facilitates development by giving free rein to human potential. It is obvious that if development concerns persons, the liberating of personal potential is development's prime condition. Secondly, one of the functions of education is to humanize development. It is education that will enable development to take account of the population's real needs and to become imbued with the respect for human values of which we spoke. Finally, it is the responsibility of education to contribute to the affirmation of different cultural identities throughout the development process.
(13.15) We, in Mexico, are endeavouring to translate these philosophical concepts into features of educational and cultural policy that are in keeping with our situation. The following are some of the specific policies laid down in the Declaration by the Ministers of Latin America and the Caribbean, and which are considered by my government to be the most important for the years to come: to give highest priority to providing for the least privileged population groups; to eradicate illiteracy before the end of the century; to provide a minimum of eight to ten years' general education, so as to incorporate all children of school age in the system not later than the end of the century; to reorganize the use of the mass media so that they contribute to the functions of education; to encourage com- munities to participate in the planning and management of education. This entails decen- tralizing the administration and involving the community, right down to the local level, in decisions on education; strengthening scientific and technological development so as to increase our countries' capacity for self-determination; devising new ways of linking school and out-of-school education in such a way that they become mutually supportive and enriching; linking educational planning to economic and social planning, and lastly, allo- cating increasingly substantial budgets to education until not less than seven or eight per cent of the gross national product is earmarked for educational purposes. Only thus will education cease to be the limiting factor of development it has been hitherto in our countries, because of their poverty and the scant resources allocated to them, and become the driving force behind it.
(13.16) These are briefly, the salient ideas that appear in the Declaration signed last December by the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean, ideas which Mexico has adopted and is trying to implement through its educational policy. We believe that this Declaration marks the beginning of a new stage in the clarification of the future trends of development in this region and the role of education in this development. We believe that these ideas are indicative of greater international awareness of these problems by a particular group of countries.
(13.17) By mentioning them in this international forum provided by Unesco, my country is expressing its solidarity with the other nations of Latin America and the Caribbean, and invites those countries of other regions which experience situations of deficiency and backwardness similar to ours, to pick out from these ideas whatever proves valid for their own contexts.
(13.18) All-embracing as Unesco's undertakings have been from its inception to the present time, even greater are the responsibilities and opportunities that its future holds out to it. The transformations that have been wrought in the dimensions and profile of mankind in the twentieth century will continue to be made and at an even faster pace. Yet more demands will be made by the nations of the world who are becoming increasingly aware of how the "other half" live, and all that the resources of the Earth, culture and modern civilization have to offer them.
(13.19) This will present our Organization with increasingly greater challenges. Hence its need for the continued support of our governments; hence also its need to continue to modernize its structure, to become less concentrated and improve its efficiency. To this end, any unnecessary formalities must be dispensed with once and for all, so that the Organization may attain the even greater effectiveness that the whole world expects of it. Along these lines, Mexico has submitted, in conjunction with other countries of Latin America and the Caribbean, a draft resolution to strengthen educational action in the countries of the region, within an intersectoral and interdisciplinary programme to be backed by the Organization, and for which I beg the support of all the delegations here present.
(13.20) To achieve this aim, we must also improve the work and efficiency of the National Commissions. : Mexico repeats its offer to host the Regional Meeting of Unesco National Commissions of Latin America and the Caribbean to be held during the first quarter of next year,
(13.21) If Unesco is to attain its objectives and make its action more effective, it must avoid dispersion and continue to concentrate its efforts on a few major projects related to each of the sectors of which the Organization is comprised.
(13.22) Clearly, the priority of the Education Sector is the battle against illiteracy and the extension of basic education, helping those countries which request it to re- formulate their educational policies so that they serve the kind of development whose prime objective is the quality of people's lives, and not production for its own sake.
(13.23) As far as the Natural Sciences Sector is concerned, quite apart from the eight major projects, stress should be laid on the need to link scientific and technological progress to the needs of each country, and particularly the more backward ones.
(13.24) In the Social Sciences Sector, the study of development problems must be directed towards the progress of backward societies and to minimizing the detrimental effects that "modernization" so often has on them.
(13.25) In the Culture and Communication Sector, Unesco must maintain its efforts to enable modern communication media to be used in the service of education and culture. Likewise, we fully agree with those who consider a better distribution and balance of information in the world as a sine qua non for peace, comprehension among nations and real understanding among men.
(13.26) Also in the field of culture, attention should be called to the Organization's activities for helping countries to protect their historic and cultural heritage as an essential basis for the affirmation of each people's cultural identity. In conclusion, in educational and cultural undertakings alike, more emphasis than hitherto must be placed on programmes of multilingual and cross-cultural education, particularly in those countries with different national communities or which are subject to massive influxes by many different ethnic groups.
(13.27) The challenges and opportunities in the Organization's immediate future make it imperative, first of all, that we update and clearly formulate the basic policies that will guide Unesco's action, and secondly, that we make its administration more efficient, thereby ensuring the genuine and effective participation of all countries in the activities which Unesco undertakes.
(13.28) Mexico reiterates its firm support for the Organization. It reminds all other Member States of its wish to have closer co-operative links with them. It also repeats its satisfaction with what Unesco has achieved so far, and its confidence that Unesco will be able to adapt, in the time required, to the world's new educational, scientific and cultural needs.
14. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Mexican delegation, and I now give the floor to H.E. Dato Musa Hitam, Minister of Education of Malaysia and head of the Malaysian delegation.
15.1 Dato MUSA HITAM (Malaysia): Mr President, Your Excellencies, honourable delegates, ladies and gentlemen, as head of the Malaysian delegation, I should like first of all to take this opportunity of congratulating you, Mr President, on your election to the high office of President of the General Conference.
15.2 I also wish to express my appreciation to the Government of Yugoslavia for the excellent organization of the Conference and also for the warm hospitality with which it and the people of Yugoslavia have welcomed us to this city of Belgrade. It is indeed appropriate that the current session of our Conference should be held in Yugoslavia, a champion of the cause of world peace and freedom, and most renowned for the leadership of her great President, the late Josip Broz Tito, who will long be remembered by the world as one of the great statesmen of our time.
15.3 Mr President, our Organization has come a long way since its inception, not only in terms of programme activites but also in terms of membership. The accelerated demise of colonialism in many parts of the world has brought into Unesco numerous new Member States, each with its unique brand of experience and outlook enriching the variety and increasing the universality of the Organization Sig- nificant shifts in Unesco's policies and programmes are indeed in line with the aspirations of its Member States and with the changing patters of membership, cul- minating in its involvement in the establishment of a new international economic order and a new international order in communications.
15.4 Six years have passed since the adoption of the Declaration on the Establish- ment of a New International Economic Order, yet we have made scant progress towards its implementation. On the contrary, the spirit of interdependence and co-operation
445   among nations, particularly between developed and developing countries, has declined to the extent of having serious implications for our Organizaticn's efforts to promote collaboration through education, science and culture.
15.5: Mr President, it is. our firm belief that.ohe.of the prerequisites for the establishment of an international economic order is the availability of scientifi- cally and technologically trained personnel to provide the manpower for accelerated socio-economic development. We in the developing countries are only too keenly aware of the need for such trained manpower. However, the scarce educational resouces now available to us have to be expended on basic education, mainly in order to stem the ever-rising tide of illiteracy. This leaves us with little to spend on higher education, the demand for which has increased phenomenally in recent years. Already trapped in this unenviable and seemingly inextricable situ- ation, developing countries could well dispense with having to face a new and disturbing trend among the developed countries that could have far-reaching negative implications for the satisfaction of very basic needs on which the establishment of a new international economic order depends.
15.6 We have observed with concern the manner in which sources of advanced know- ledge, especially in scientific and technological education in some of the less far-sighted of the developed States, are becoming increasingly inaccessible to the developing countries. These States are beginning to resort to the imposition of exorbitant fees, quotas and new and stringent entry conditions on foreign students, ironically enough - it appears - with the specific aim of discriminating against those from developing countries. This emerging trend towards a new kind of DIO tectionism, which we might call "educational protectionism", must be curbed, in order to protect the developing nations which are already overburdened by existing protectionist practices in other fields from its adverse implications.
15.7 Mr President, let me take this opportunity to call upon the developed Member States concerned which are represented in this august forum to be liberal, as indeed they were before, in opening their institutions of higher learning to citi- zens of other Member States, which are in urgent need of such facilities. Such a gesture would indeed be in keeping with the ideals and aspirations of our Organization.
15.8 While on the subject of assistance to the developing countries, let me assure you that we in those countries are not unaware of our own potential for mutual assistance and self-help amongst ourselves. The time has come for more of the more advanced developing States to extend to the less advanced certain forms of assistance which are within their capacities. In this respect, I am glad to be able to mention here that my country has already launched a programme of tech- nical assistance to developing nations in areas where we have the expertise, such as rubber, food and tin mining technology, veterinary and forest research, land development and development planning. In addition, I am happy to announce that Malaysia is in the process of launching a programme to provide scholarships and places at our educational institutions for nationals of certain newly independent countries which require training facilities to meet their technical, administrative and educational requirements.
15.97 Mr President, let me now turn briefly to the Draft Programme and Budget for
1981-1983. We whole-heartedly welcome the marked emphasis on science and technology which will undoubtedly further the cause of the new international economic order by making scientific and technological knowledge increasingly available to the developing countries. I should like to congratulate the Director-General and the Secretariat, not only on their efforts to shift the emphasis of the programme to areas which are more development-oriented but also on the achievement of a degree of concentration of programme activities that will ensure greater effectiveness. We would very much like to see this trend continued in subsequent biennial programmes.
15.10 I am happy to learn that, at the same time as programme activities are being concentrated, Unesco will be taking steps to intensify its efforts to decen- tralize programme administration. In this connection, and in line with the need to encourage the application of endogenous efforts and contributions to the development process, I would urge Unesco to forge greater co-operation with regional organizations and institutions, and to provide them with more general assistance. I am confident that such co-operation would constitute a formidable combination for development, bringing together Unesco's internationally accumulated experience and expertise and the vital knowledge of local needs possessed by the regional organizations and institutions.
15.11 Mr President, there is one matter of concern to us which, I feel, should be mentioned here, in view of the fact that we all represent our respective governments. I refer to the question of co-ordination, both within Unesco itself and between intergovernmental agencies. In our attempts to build a perfect world,    far too many agencies are moving along parallel lines, each justifying its own programmes, with the result that activities already covered by other agencies are being duplicated, triplicated or multiplied even further. It is amazing Mr Presi- dent, how each organization manages to justify its factionwithia "Yes; but" argument!
15.12 Unesco itself, for example, is one of the oldest established Specialized Agencies of the United Nations covering a wide range of responsibilities in edu- cation, science and culture, and in those areas of communication which fall within its competence. We have become so huge an organization that efforts must be made to ensure that we do not ourselves fall into the trap of overlapping and competing activities - although I would certainly not deny that strict compartmentalization is not necessarily practical.
15.13 In the interagency context, as Member States of Unesco, but also of other intergovernmental bodies, we must do all we can to secure the closest possible co-ordination, so that wastage of our own manpower and financial resources may be avoided. I am sure that many of us, particularly the smaller and poorer countries, can hardly afford to send representatives to international meetings where, in many instances, they are merely called upon to deal with the same subject-matter in a different forum, at a different site.
15.14 It is in the light of these remarks, Mr President, that I would commend the Director-General on his unceasing and tireless efforts to remind us of this particular problem, and offer him our full support in securing a more effective role for the Administrative Committee on Co-ordination of the United Nations system.
15.15 On that note Mr President, I shall conclude, assuring Unesco of my country's continued support for its ideals and aspirations, and its co-operation in all efforts to achieve them. Thank you, Mr President.
16. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Malaysian delegation, and I now give the floor to H.E. the Honourable Onofre D. Corpuz, Minister of Education and Culture of the Philippines and head of the Philippine delegation.
17.1 Mr CORPUZ (Philippines): Mr President, on behalf of the Philippine delegation, I heartily welcome your election to the presidency of this twenty-first session of the Unesco General Conference. I am confident that under your distinguished leadership and able guidance this session will be most fruitful and constitute another step forward towards the well-being of our peoples.
17.2 May I also take this opportunity to convey to the General Conference cordial greetings from our President, Ferdinand E. Marcos, and the people of the Republic of the Philippines. And I wish to express the appreciation of the Philippine dele- gation for the gracious hospitality of our hosts here in Yugoslavia and for the excellent preparations made for this session.
17.3 Mr President, it is said that the world today is almost infinite in its variety. Yet in its diversity one passionate aspiration of our peoples stands out: the aspiration to genuine and lasting peace which we all recognize as one of the reasons for the existence of Unesco and the United Nations. In recent times this yearning for peace has been the message consistently conveyed to the world community by our President, amplifying the sentiments and aspirations of the ne developing nations of the Third World, to which the Philippines very proudly elong.
17.4 The gap in understanding between the Third World and the rest of the world, between the North and South of the globe, declared the President of the Philippines in his address before the American communications media leaders last April, lies at the root of the nascent and festering conflicts in the world today. Although misunderstood, the Third World countries seek no concession, but embrace a new alternative. President Marcos said, and I quote: "The call to change in the international world order, political no less than economic, is not a concession to the Third World but an offering to peace. Encouraged to pursue their own destinies, to chart their own course towards a modern democratic life, the developing nations can defuse the mortal confrontations between conflicting ideologies and rival powers and thus become the pivot around which peace may revolve. The management of the world can no longer be safely left to the superpowers. The future of the Third World is in your future. Ours has been called l'époque du malaise. We live in feverish times, the worst of times, the best of times. We can hope for the best if we listen to the Third World".
17.5 In this spirit, Mr President, and to enable Unesco to work ever more effec- tively to bring into being the world of progress, justice and peace to which we all aspire, I entreat this Conference to harken more than ever before to the voice of the Third World nations.
17.6 I humbly submit that the desire for peace and the well-being of mankind should be the overriding motivation guiding the Conference to redirect, channel and manage the resources available to us in drawing up Unesco's programme for the coming years.
17.7 Mr President, the Philippine delegation is pleased that the Director-General and his staff have produced a comprehensive Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-
1983. In conformity with his suggestion that heads of delegations focus their remarks on Unesco's general policy and on major world problems with particular reference to the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983, chiefly-its introduction, may I offer a few comments on that document.
17.8 Our delegation notes with satisfaction the inclusion of technical and vocational education in document 21 C/5 for the first time under a specific objec- tive. There is unmistakable virtue in this proposal in the light of the economic demands on the international order and it is in consonance with the revitalization of national economies, particularly those of the developing countries.
17.9 It may interest the General Conference that the Philippines, like other similarly situated nations, has been obliged to concentrate more intensely on efforts toward economic viability in the face of worldwide inflation and recession. It has been obliged to marshal all its available resources, including those set aside for the education sector. And, to increase the availability of skilled man- power for industry, our government has set up technical institutes and improved existing facilities, especially those of fishery schools. It supports a deliberate job-creation programme in which schools are encouraged to participate. It has called on the schools, especially the technical and vocational institutions, through the staff and students, to double their productive capacity within the next two years. Our government will establish a Bureau of Technical and Vocational Education.
17.10 Representing as we do a country with a largely agricultural economy, we find it encouraging that the Conference is requested to consider action to strengthen technical and vocational education for the rural areas. The results obtained in this connection should enable us to translate our countryside develop- ment efforts into reality.
17.11 It is likewise gratifying to observe the special attention drawn in the draft programme and budget to the interlinkage between non-formal education and formal education and the inclusion of teaching through productive work. Appro- priately, Mr President, these are concerns to which the Philippines has paid particular attention in recent years. Not only has a non-formal education pro- gramme of our school system been set up and rationalized; it has also been expanded to provide opportunities for young people and adults to resume formal schooling or otherwise to be functionally enlightened through continuing education activities. In fact, our government has just produced a plan to bolster this venture through the establishment of a Bureau of Non-Formal and Continuing Edu- cation now under deliberation in our legislative body.
17.12 Our delegation is in full agreement with the literacy programme. We cannot but insist on the need for vigorous, well-directed activities in this regard within both international and national contexts. Undeniably, illiteracy is still wide- spread in many parts of the world; it hinders development. We must at this session show our determination not merely to banish ignorance but to help the millions of people in: need of. functional and productive literacy training. If we are to improve living conditions and the quality of life of our peoples, especially in the depressed and rural areas, there is no substitute for concerted co-operative efforts to eradicate illiteracy by all in Unesco.
17.13 The draft programme and budget proposes a marked shift of emphasis towards science and technology in preparation for the Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989. The Philippine delegation believes in the urgency of this shift of emphasis. Mr Presi- dent, I sincerely trust that the Conference will assert its power and influence to secure for mankind the beneficent and peaceful use of science and technology. I earnestly call upon the Conference to address itself earnestly to fostering among Member States intellectual and moral discipline. It should also energetically support efforts to ensure that scientific and technological advancement is developed in the service of mankind. In this connection, certain aspects of the results of the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development held in August 1979 are singled out in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983. The Philippine delegation fully appreciates these concerns and will support strategies for effective action formulated by the Conference. 2»
17.14 Mr President, as regards the proposals in the Draft Programme and Budget for
1981-1983 concerning the social sciences, we believe in the importance of widening possibilities for the participation of women in the new international order. We agree that more thorough studies should be made of the interaction between develop- ment and environmental and population factors. We unequivocably support the“pre- tection of human rights.
17.15 In the context of lifelong education, the programmes that the Conference will consider to enhance the study and teaching of human rights will obtain our unqualified support. And we cannot put this too emphatically. For our government and people are acutely conscious - and jealous - of those rights, despite the different picture painted by the Western media, and we unswervingly maintain that human rights must be inviolable everywhere in the world.
17.16 Speaking of the media, the draft programme and budget gives clear indica- tions that efforts to build up a new world informaticn and communication order should be directed along specific channels set out in the Declaration on funda- mental principles concerning the contribution of the mass media to strengthening peace and international understanding, to the promotion of human rights and to countering racialism, apartheid and incitement to war. The role of communication in human scciety should yield international understanding, not antagonism and resentment, and present to the community of nations a richer and truer picture of reality, not a one-sided - no matter how well-documented - presentation of provin- cial ideas.
17.17 With reference to the provision of the Unesco Constitution which speaks of "the unrestricted pursuit of objective truth and ... free exchange of ideas", our delegation, Mr President, strongly suggests that the Conference carry out a critical appraisal of and perhaps take a firm and sober position against the ram- pant misuse of the so-called freedom of the press, not to say the irresponsibility of certain sectors of the world media. It is incongruous that while the media profess to contribute to the meaningful development of nations, they seem at times actually to be obstacles to such development. Their distortions and vituperations disturb - to say the least - policy and decision-making, and incite people to dis- ruptive reaction or dampen their interest in and support for undertakings vital to their welfare. And it is true that some journalists are employed for non- journalistic purposes, and most of these are assigned to Third World countries.
17.18 Mr President, while these remarks have been given in the light of the aspiration of the peoples of the world for unity, I trust that the Conference will seek answers to the problems before it without exhortation or excessive emotion, by making resolute efforts to solve those problems. I hope that our discussions will be fully directed towards that end.
17.19 In conclusion, Mr President, our delegation wishes to reaffirm the unswerv- ing commitment of the Philippines to the ideals and principles for which Unesco stands, ideals and principles that uphold the infinite worth and dignity, the boundless potential and glory of mankind.
17:20 “Thankyou, Mr President.
18. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Philippine delegation, and I now give the floor to H.E. Dr. Juan Rafael Llerena Amadeo, Minister of Culture and Education of Argentina and head of the Argentine delegation.
(19.1) Mr LLERENA AMADEO (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish): First of all I wish to compliment Yugoslavia, which has invited us here and provided us with its hospitality, making each moment of this Conference pleasant and agreeable for us with the cordiality it has shown. I wish also to compliment our President Mr Ivo Margan, Vice-President of the Federal Executive Council of Yugoslavia, to congratulate him on his appointment and to wish him every success in the conduct of this Conference which I am sure he will manage admirably. I wish also to compliment Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, the Director-General, and to congratulate him, for I have no doubt whatsoever of his well- deserved re-election.
(19.2) Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen: allow me to express, on behalf of my government, great pleasure in participating in this twenty- first session of the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Pleasure at the importance and vital significance of this meeting, at which most nations of the world are represented by eminent persons in the field of edu- cation, science and culture. Pleasure at the renewed spirit which, I am sure, moves this Organization today after the wonderful words uttered by His Holiness Jonn Paul Ion the occasion of his visit to this agency's Headquarters in Paris on 2 June last, at a meeting which I had the very great honour of attending. In our opinion those words make a sub- stantial contribution to Unesco's philosophy and, on this occasion, will illuminate our consideration of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983. On this last point, allow me to state my country's position at this juncture in history and culture.
(19.3) It is no news to anyone that the world is experiencing one of the most profound crises in its history. That crisis is calling into question values which for a long time were accepted by man and society and which today are tottering, because the questioning goes deep, reaching the fundamental religious, ethical and political values that guide man in his work and constitute his view of the world: nature, man and God. The crisis is also very profound because of its extent. The formidable development of the media of social communication and of the means of transport, products of the technological revolution, has extended this questioning to all regions of the world without exception and millions of peoples are suffering its consequences. It is a predominantly cultural crisis because it is shaking a system of values that governed the human race, and by that means is also shocking man himself, who is the subject and object of culture. And, as is natural, the crisis of man is communicated to the institutions he forms, for they are a reflection of his being and his work. It is a crisis for the family, for its sense and purpose, for marriage and for the role of man and woman in present-day society; it is a Crisis for the State, for the relations between authority and the citizen, for the political systems in operation, for the participation of every people in the community of nations; a crisis, for the international community, in which conflicting interests often prevail over the common good of the peoples. It creates difficulty in shaping a new international economic order based on justice and freedom; it foreshadows war on a vast scale, the containment of which is at times left to the primal instinct of self-preservation alone.
(19.4) In the face of this threatening horizon, which calls into question the optimistic postulate of "indefinite progress", mankind is witnessing a formidable development of science and technology which, if wisely used, can make so great a contribution to the overall development of man and society. But they can also be transformed - and this depends on man - into instruments of destruction, death, oppression and slavery.
(19.5) In this context, ladies and gentlemen, it has fallen to the Organization to play its role worthily through the ever-increasing promotion of education, science and culture among the peoples. Because, we repeat, the crisis strikes at culture and through it, and with it, at man himself. For, as His Holiness John Paul II told us in June, "It is through culture that man lives a truly human life. Human life is also culture in the sense that it is through culture that man is distinguished and differentiated from everything else that exists in the visible world. Culture is a specific mode of man's 'existing' and 'being'".
(19.6) This is the arena, ladies and gentlemen, in which the destinies of mankind are at stake. Through culture we have to take a new look at man, at the person in its entirety: at the total aggregate of man's spiritual and material subjectivity, because culture and all its manifestations are the expression of this total truth about man. About man who is the principal subject of history; who is not merely matter with feeling but also a spirit   capable of discovering the truth of things, of loving what is good and of regulating his instinctive life and making it virtuous; capable of wisdom in penetrating into the deepest and most mysterious riches of reality; capable of expressing the beauty of the universe and of transforming nature into a work of technology in his service. But these capacities, in the hands of a mean and narrow. freedom, may turn against the goodness that is in man, and even against the very existence of individuals and communities. It. 15 to this man, ladies and gentlemen, that we refer: to this man, who is the subject and object of culture.
(19.7) Unesco's programme for the period 1981-1983 aims to answer, through the overall development of man and society, the broad questicns arising from the present world crisis. Man enters the world as an open-ended project, and must leave it as a finished and perfect being in his own specific way; and for this he has only one course: the gradual, total and continuous development of all the potentialities inherent in his nature. Consequently none of his dimensions can be excluded from development, for everything that exists in man the organic and the spiritual - is human.
(19.8) Materialism in its various forms and over-emphasis of the spiritual side deny this fundamental truth and consequently threaten man himself. If the material side is made absolute, we are left with a diminished version of man, "Homo Deconomicus", whose indi- viduality is reduced to an object of production, consumption or pleasure, merely another cog in the great social machine. If the spiritual side is made absolute, we are left with another version of man which excludes everthing that is material about man and which, in the name of abstract freedom, fails to recognize that his freedom is shared, that his responsibility is a shared responsibility in which each and every one seeks the same ideal of perfection.
(19.9) We are deeply gratified that Unesco has taken these dangers into account in its programme and that the theme of development has earned to a global interpretation; that is to say, embracing all of mankind and society. We are also gratified that the programme: includes as a necessary condition respect for and promotion of those human rights, both material and spiritual, which are vital to ensure such integral development of man and peoples.
(19.10) The activities which the Organization proposes to carry out in the cultural field proper are prompted by the main motive force of development; because culture is the total expression of man, all the other dimensions - religious, political, ethical, economic, artistic and technical - are incorporated in it and can therefore be promoted and assured. We should explain that, when we speak of culture, we mean the expression not only of man as an individual, but also of the various communities he forms. For culture is the expression of the nation; it is the expression of the collective and combined contribution of all to a common undertaking and a common destiny.
(19.11) In this connection we should draw attention to the importance of the objective mentioned in the programme: “Appreciation and respect for cultural identity"; because culture is a determining factor in national identity, the respect and appreciation due to it are, without a doubt, respect and appreciation for every national community. Conse- quently there is a special relationship between culture and nation. Hence, any encroach- ment upon a nation's freedom jeopardizes its culture, and conversely any disrespect for its cultural identity jeopardizes the nation; what is more, this is the context in which true respect for human rights, whether by one nation towards another or by a nation towards its citizens, should be understood. For the real and authentic scope of human rights is inseparable from cultural and moral values which are the basis of the dignity of the human person.
(19.12) Consistently with this approach, the programme sets out the various objectives to be attained in the field of education, because the first and essential task of culture is education, considered as the process which leads to the integral training of man as an individual and social being through the harmonious development of all his potentialities (physical and spiritual) to fulfil the common and social good and his overriding destiny. Accordingly, the most important element to be transmitted and inculcated in the content of education, that which above all it must help to bring cut in the learner, is precisely, in the broad moral context, the virtue which makes a good man. In the intellectual sphere, this means habits of thought which train not only the scholar, the scientist and the professional but also man in general to face up, and find solutions, to the problems of life; and also to embellish, re-create and build the world. On the physical plane, it means the skills and development which give him personal health and vigour. The result of this process should be an educated man, a cultured man; and in this sense, in terms of the ultimate goal to be attained, education and culture are one.
(19.139) If culture must be the expression of the total truth of man, science and technologyare also culture. Because man has the power to transform nature and place it at his ser-vice. The extraordinary advance of science and technology is a convincing proof of humangreatness and a hope for the development of peoples. So that this hope may become a realityand yield all its fruits, we must fit this marvellous capacity into the framework of thewhole man, because the aim of science and technology is to obtain products which serve forhis progress and dignity, for man is the main subject and recipient of their benefits.In this there are no neutral positions. Either man is the master of these magnificentresources or he is their slave; either he places them at the service of life or they servedeath; either he places them at the service of freedom or they favour oppression; eitherhe places them at the service of peace or they bring war nearer.
(19.14) Bear with me a few minutes longer while I tell you a few facts about our countryand the region which may make some contribution to the undertaking on which the Organ-ization has embarked.
(19.15) The first contribution which we would like to offer and transmit is the reality of our culture, which has its own personality and stamp acquired over centuries. Our existence as a nation can be understood only through our culture. It is the result of the contributions of the classical cultures founded on a Christianity completely revitalized by Spain, with the imprint of our own land.
(19.16) Greece gave us a theoretical, contemplative and rational attitude to the world; Rome, social organization in conformity with the law. Christianity is an unsurpassable ethical and religious legacy, of which we shall mention here, because of its importance, only respect for the dignity of man and of every nation, the bearers of inviolable rights and duties. Spain, with its work of culture - for such was its task - was the effective vehicle for the wealth we have hinted at, and at the same time bequeathed to us a heroic sense of life. In our country all the values of this tradition receive the special stamp of the men of our land, which is a genuine melting-pot of races.
(19.17) Our American existence cannot be understood except through culture: community of origin, language and religion and a common view of life which unite all the American peoples in a single enterprise and a common destiny. Material resources, men and young people - everything can be a contribution to the world: our service to dt: With this in mind, we respectfully request the Organization to pay more heed to this offering, so that the tendency reflected in recent programmes and budgets to reduce the resources allocated to America compared with those for other regions of the world may be reversed.
(19.18) The activities which we have been carrying on in the field of education fit into the general approach which we described earlier. Some of them are worth describing in more detail.
(19.19) In the university sphere a new legal order has been instituted. The following have been recognized as the aims of the university: the complete training of man, the disinterested quest for truth and the increase of knowledge; the preservation, dissemi- nation and transmission of culture and, more particularly, the spiritual values and demo- cratic and republican principles that guide the nation; and the general and professional training of the academic, reconciling his personal vocation with the demands of the common good. The new legal order also embodies the principles of university autonomy, freedom of teaching, and the system of public competitive examination for admission to the teaching staff.
(19.20) The other levels of education are co-ordinated through the Federal Council for Culture and Communication, which is composed of the highest educational authorities all over the country, so that the federal system is upheld. Here general guidelines are laid down to ensure that the existing degree of regicnalization in education is consistent with national educational policy and thus strengthens the unity of the nation.
(19.21) We have also devoted special attention to updating and improving teaching tech- niques and skills. Approximately 100 projects have been carried out, with preferential treatment for the interior of the country. We believe that only properly trained and up-to-date teachers can enable us to achieve the transformation of education to which we are committed.
(19.22) Secondary education, which takes pupils between 13 and 17 years of age, has been given special attention through the implementation of a plan for its renewal. This plan comprises three projects concerned with pupils' supervised study, their evaluation and grading, and vocational guidance. An educational television project has also been carried out as a back-up for the work of the secondary teacher. Transmitted on open cirénit ie consists of 130 broadcasts which reach about half the country.
(19.23) It would take a long time to enumerate all the activiites undertaken: improve- ment of rural and agricultural education, measures to overcome dropping out of school, changes in the curriculum at non-university institutions of higher education, provision of equal opportunities by increasing the budgetary appropriations for education, and so on. But there is one subject on which I would like to dwell: the Federal Education Act.
(19.24) Our country lacks a general system of law for dealing with educational problems. The present government, alert to this pressing need, is determined to lay down such a body of law, and for this purpose has already held a consultation covering more than 350 public and private institutions and persons engaged in educational work. The various views have been collated and a draft Act is now being prepared. We believe that this will provide families, teachers and pupils with a clear frame of reference for the noble task of education.
(19.25) It is worth mentioning here that our scientific research gained world recognition through the award of two Nobel Prizes to Dr Bernardo Houssay in 1948 and Dr Luis Federico Leloir in 1970. In this tradition and with this responsibility, five national research programmes are being carried out: endemic diseases; electronics; housing technology; food technology; and non-conventional energy and renewable resources.
(19.26) At the same time we are continuing to develop human resources and scientific and technological activities in keeping with the present division by regions. The National Council for Scientific and Technological Research (CONICET) is the executing agency par excellence for policies in this area. Thus the real scientists and research workers can carry on their all-important work through their institutes.
(19.27) Ladies and gentlemen: culture, education, science and technology are thus merely different facets of a single reality: that of the real development of our peoples, which takes place when there is growth of the whole human being and of all human beings, a growth within a true scale of values, a growth which gives "being more" priority over "having more".
(19.28) Because we do accept and wish to have more, yes, but so that more children may be born; to have more, yes, but in order to encourage and promote their all-round develop- ment in mind and body; to have more, yes, but so as to attain the common good of society; to have more, yes, but above all else to be better, which is the sum and substance for everyone: to be more. I thank you.
204 The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Argentine delegation and I now give the: Floor to Mrs. Dorte Bennedsen, Minister for Education of Denmark and head of the Danish delegation.
21.1 Mrs BENNEDSEN (Denmark) : Mr President, let me take this opportunity of extendinc to you my heartfelt congratulations on your election. I listened with great attention to your opening address, which expressed a number of fundamental points of view concerning Unesco's role and function in the contemporary world; those viewpoints, I am happy to say, are shared by my own government.
21.2 Mr President, the forthcoming work on Unesco's next Medium-Term Plan will, in accordance with the resolution of the Executive Board, be based on an analysis of world problems and their relevance to Unesco's fields of competence; this analysis is now before us as document 21 C/4. As you are perhaps aware, the Nordic countries, including Denmark, attach great importance to the preparation of the next Medium-Term Plan. We believe that a rational and coherent structure of this Plan would have a considerable bearing on the question of concentration, on the establishment of priorities for Regular Programmes, and consequently on the issue of the rational utilization of Unesco's economic and human resources.
21.3 May I in this connection refer to what the Danish member of the Executive Board said on behalf of the Nordic National Commissions at the 109th session of the Board, namely that the Nordic countries strongly advocate a Medium-Term Plan containing fewer objectives than the present one and structured according to those objectives rather than to the framework of the Organization itself.
21.4 In this connection, it is also important to ensure that the Programme for
1981-1983, which will be approved at this Conference, does not contain activities that would bind the content of the new Medium-Term Plan to a too high degree. Moreover, it will be extremely important for the General Conference, in its work on the Medium-Term Plan, to endeavour to avoid problems of overlapping and dupli- cation within the United Nations system, Such problems are obvious, for instance, in the fields of technology and energy. Finally, we would recommend that the Secretariat, in its recruitment policy up to 1984, take into consideration the fact that the new Medium-Term Plan and the implementation of the resulting pro- grammes may necessitate a different Secretariat structure and a different com- position of the personnel.
21.5 My delegation will comment in detail on the Director-General's analysis contained in document 21 C/4 during the meetings of the Programme Commissions. It is my impression that this analysis constitutes a sound foundation for detailed discussion of the structure and substance of the next Medium-Term Plan, “but I would nevertheless like to draw attention to a paper which, in my opinion, highly deserves to be included in any examination of world problems, namely the so-called "Brandt Report". Although this report deals primarily with the economic relations between industrialized and developing countries, it nevertheless contains a number of observations of direct relevance to the work of Unesco.
21.6 Mr President, as you know, a Programme of Action was put to a vote at the recent World Conference of the United Nations Decade for Women in Copenhagen. This plan urges governments and the international community to take action in various fields, with the general aim of diminishing the existing inequality bet- ween men and women. When my government explained why it could not vote for the Programme of Action, it stressed that it fully supported that part which dealt with national and international goals and strategies, and I shall therefore call upon Unesco, in accordance with the Programme of Action and within its own spheres of competence, to support efforts to formulate, strengthen and carry through national, regional and global plans for the integration of women in development.
21.7 Concerning another field of top priority in Unesco's work, namely the fight against illiteracy, let me take the liberty of quoting from the Brandt Report in order to illustrate some of the factors which, in our opinion, are important in this problem area. The quotation is as follows: "Illiteracy means an enormous loss of human potential. Education that reaches further than being able to read and write awakes the consciousness of man and encourages his participation in social life". In our opinion, the fight against illiteracy should be seen in the light of such a philosophy. Large programmes with the aim of teaching all children at a certain age to read and write are very demanding on human and economic            resources, but of no great avail if those new skills cannot be used and do not have any relevance to daily life in the local community. In this connection, I think that the. development of the "rural press" projects will be of major import- ance. Further, I find it relevant to mention the so-called "Unesco for All" pre- ject, through which efforts are made with drawings and the use of a language adapted to that of the ordinary citizen to channel knowledge concerning such sub- jects as better food, housing, the use of solar energy and so on from scientists and research workers to ordinary people. I also believe that the development of literacy of young parents, within the framework of adult education, will have a multiplier effect on literacy, since all experience tends to show that parents who can read and write will ensure that their children learn to do so too.
21.8 Another question which has been prominent in discussions for the past two years and more concerns what is termed "a new international information and com- munication order". In this very important field, we now have a number of analy- ses and suggesticns, thanks to the thorough and persistent work of the MacBride Commission. I believe that it is generally acknowledged that there exists a gulf between the industrialized and the developing countries as far as possibilities of effectively using the mass media are concerned. This has among other things resulted in many developing countries being serviced by and partly dependent upon information from external and especially Western news media. In the opinion of my government, this lack of balance between the industrialized and the develop- ing countries must be changed by developing the communication sectors in the latter both nationally and regionally. The way to do this is through the develop- ment of the necessary infrastructure and increased education in the field of communication.
21.9 Mr President, my country has already given aid through Unesco to a number of projects in the field of communication. I can therefore confirm, as my pre- decessor predicted at the twentieth session of the General Conference, that Denmark has granted funds to a joint Nordic communication project on a regional basis in East Africa. Funds have also been granted for a project in Sri Lanka, which we expect to be launched soon. Also in future we shall be ready to con- sider positively appeals for support for other projects in this field. It is, however, of paramount importance - if a larger proportion of the international development assistance is to be channelled to the communication sector - that the receiving countries in their national programming give this sector high priority.
21.10 May I in this connection draw your attention to the fact that my country channels a substantial part of its multilateral aid through UNDP, in which agency the developing countries have a decisive influence. Partly based on the wish to strengthen the role of UNDP as the central co-ordinating agency of the United Nations system in the field of development aid, Denmark cannot - as a matter of principle - support the establishment of special funds or other similar funding arrangements.
21.11 In the discussions on communication problems, the introduction of inter- national ethical norms has been strongly advocated. As reasons for the intro- duction of such rules, it has been argued that the freedom of the press is being abused, and that governments have a special responsibility in preventing this. Any limitation on the freedom of the press or freedom of speech would be incom- patible with the fundamental rights granted by the Constitution of my country but, apart from that, the risk of abuse on the part of governments if censorship were introduced exceeds by far - in my opinion - the risk of the mass media misusing their freedom. An attempt to form ethical norms with a view to promoting broad, common international goals like those of strengthening peace and promoting develop- ment and independence in the Third World would not be successful either, as such ideals are interpreted differently in different situations. For example, incite- ment to war must be condemned in principle. But how then would we judge a news- paper expressing support for a war of liberation against an imperialistic regime?
21.12 As you will have understood from my examples, it is impossible in this field to establish international rules which are both meaningful and generally accepted by Member States, and my government cannot therefore accept the intro- duction of such rules. NS NS has already been said on many occasions, Unesco's activities - and the present programme is no exception - constitute "a horn of abundance". It is ob- vious that the Organization's broadly defined goals, and the different political, social and economic relations of its Member States are likely to lead to very great diversity in the work of the Organization. Efforts towards concentration of pro- gramme activities have therefore been advocated strongly for a long time, and we welcome the Secretariat's initiatives in this direction as indicated in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983. It is, however, of very great importance that
457   these efforts be continued and substantially strengthened if we are to see any real improvement in the unacceptable conditions in which a far too large proportion of the world's population lives.
21.14 Denmark supports once more the proposed budget and growth rate, but its future support in this connection will depend very heavily on the extent to which effective meausres are taken to achieve more concentrated use of Funds In "ur view, the starting-up of new studies in many fields could be substantially limited and replaced by co-ordinated pilot projects and action-oriented programmes that are currently evaluated. Further, we would recommend that the proportion of the budget used for the Participation Programme be substantially augmented in order to ensure that the smallest and poorest developing countries especially can partici- pate in international co-operation in accordance with their own priorities.
21.15 Mr President, in his oral report the Director-General called our attention to a case of much gravity for it challenges one of the fundamental pre-conditions of international co-operation, namely the privileges and immunities to which inter- national civil servants are entitled. My government shares the deep concern with which the Director-General views this case. And we wish to express our full support for the measures he has taken to bring this case to an outcome in conformity with international rules to which the country in question has previously subscribed.
21.16 The question I have touched upon - and many more - will be discussed during the weeks to come by the General Conference and the Executive Board, and later in a continued dialogue between Member States. My delegation will do its best to ensure that the discussions, regardless of differences in culture, political system, and level of development may be held in a manner likely to strengthen existing possibilities for attaining the high goals of Unesco as they are laid down in its Constitueilon.
21.17 “Thank you, Mr President.
22... “He -PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Danish delegation and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Tis Hodoul, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Seychelles and head of the Seychelles delegation.
23.1 M. HODOUL (Seychelles) .- Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, je voudrais tout d'abord, Monsieur le Président, vous pré- senter, en mon nom et en celui de la délégation seychelloise, nos plus vives féli- citations pour votre élection à la présidence de cette illustre assemblée. Je suis d'autant plus heureux de le faire que nous avons déjà eu l'occasion d'apprécier la grande compétence et le tact avec lesquels vous avez assumé les hautes fonctions qui vous ont été confiées. Permettez-moi également de vous assurer de l'entière Collaboration de la délégation seychelloise tout au long des débats de cette Conférence.
23.2 Je suis particulièrement heureux d'être ici, à cette Conférence générale et dans cette ville de Belgrade, où survit avec ferveur la mémoire du grand patriote et du grand homme d'Etat que fut le maréchal mito.
23.3 Monsieur le Président, j'ai déja eu 1'honneur, il y a deux ans de cela, au lendemain de l'accession des Seychelles au statut de République authentiquement indépendante et souveraine, de diriger la délégation seychelloise à Paris, à la vingtième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco, et de m'adresser alors, au nom de mon pays, aux nombreux délégués qui y étaient réunis, pour dire l'espoir que nous mettions en l'Unesco.
23.4 En 1978, Mesdames et Messieurs, j'ai cru devoir souligner, en abordant les problèmes auxquels l'Unesco avait à faire face et dans la solution desquels elle s'était engagée, combien nous étions heureux de pouvoir nous associer aux travaux de l'Organisation. Je ne saurais revenir sur ces thèmes, Monsieur le Président, mais avec votre permission, je voudrais en aborder aujourd'hui certains autres qui sont primordiaux, sinon cruciaux pour l'épanouissement de toutes les facultés de l'homme et l'avenir de celui-ci.
23.5 J'ai parlé de l'épanouissement de l'homme, Monsieur le Président. Or, cet épanouissement est subordonné à la réunion d'un minimum de conditions matérielles. L'homme doit pouvoir se nourrir, se vêtir et se loger décemment. Il lui faut éga- lement pouvoir vivre en paix et dans la liberté. N'oublions pas que l'homme, où qu'il soit, est homme dans toute l'acception du terme et qu'il a le droit, de ce fait, à la dignité que confère une vie exempte de soucis matériels majeurs. C'est pourquoi il est impératif, Monsieur le Président, que le monde accède à un nouvel ordre économique international, afin que les biens de la terre, de cette terre qui              appartient - qu'on le veuille ou non - à l'humanité, donc à tous, que ces biens, dis-je soient mieux répartis. Faut-il qu'il y ait toujours des nations nanties et des nations démunies, alors même que les nations nanties se sont enrichies aux dépens des ‘autres ? C'est à cela, à cette meilleure distribution des richesses de notre planète, que doivent tendre tous nos efforts. Car, c'est de cette promotion, en quelque sorte fondamentale, de l'homme que dépend en premier lieu son accomplis- sement. Aussi 1'Unesco doit-elle poursuivre ses efforts dans ce domaine et utili- ser au service de cette noble cause les puissants moyens qu'offrent l'éducation et l'information.
23.6 J'ai aussi parlé de paix, Monsieur le Président, la paix constituant le cli- mat nécessaire à l'accomplissement de l'homme. Il faudrait que la paix, que beau- coup réclament et prónent, sans y croire ou la vouloir réellement, soit un droit humain, au même titre que la liberté et 1'égalité. A cette croisade pour une paix durable, il convient d'associer la jeunesse grâce à une ouverture sur le monde de tout le processus éducatif. Puissions-nous ainsi contribuer à faire disparaître progressivement tous les dangers qui menacent la paix. Au nombre de ceux-ci, il faut compter, Mesdames et Messieurs, le colonialisme et le racisme.
23.7 Le premier de ces systèmes d'oppression n'est sans doute plus admis ni accepté dans ce que l'on pourrait appeler - pour utiliser un euphémisme - le monde bien pensant, mais il persiste en Namibie et ailleurs, tandis que le second n'est que le fait de sociétés aveugles et butées qui veulent perpétuer l'oppression éco- nomique qu'elles ont instituée. Colonialisme et racisme sont deux fléaux, souvent liés, que l'Unesco n'a cessé de combattre. A ce propos, qu'il me soit permis de rappeler ici la table ronde sur l'apartheid, que vous ‘avez réunie en 1978, Mon- sieur le Directeur général, au cours de l'Année internationale pour la lutte contre l'apartheid. Cette forme de racisme, particulièrement aberrante parce qu'institutionnalisée, y a été dénoncée et stigmatisée.
23.8 Nous, Mesdames et Messieurs, en tant que pays indépendants et souverains, devons donner notre plein appui à l'action de l'Unesco dans ce domaine, non seule- ment en nous associant à ses dénonciations et à ses prises de position, mais aussi en nous efforçant de mettre en oeuvre sans tergiversations ses résolutions et ses recommandations. Citons, à ce propos, toutes les mesures qu'il serait encore pos- sible de prendre pour assurer effectivement à tous les enfants - sans distinction d'aucune sorte - les mêmes chances d'accès à une même éducation.
23.9 Revenant sur l'apartheid, je voudrais rappeler ici que mon pays a récemment interdit aux avions des compagnies aériennes sud-africaines de survoler les Sey- chelles se solidarisant ainsi avec les peuples africains opprimés par cette forme particulièrement répugnante de ségrégation. Nous souhaitons que d'autres pays, qui Siègent parmi nous ici, fassent de même ! C'est par des actions concrètes de ce genre, et non par des déclarations creuses, que nous contraindrons l'Afrique du Sud à respecter les droits de l'homme. En effet, c'est en isolant ce régime ra- ciste, en faisant basculer son économie, qui dépend pour une large mesure du com= merce extérieur et des investissements étrangers, que nous pourrons l'amener à la raison. Qu'on ne nous dise surtout pas que des mesures économiques auraient des répercussions défavorables sur les peuples opprimés par le régime sud-africain ! En effet, ces peuples, qui ne peuvent être plus opprimés qu'ils ne le sont déjà, puisqu'ils ne constituent qu'une main-d'oeuvre exploitée à l'extrême, ont eux- mêmes réclamé, par la voix autorisée de leurs représentants authentiques, ces sanc- tions économiques. Faire la sourde oreille à leurs requêtes serait faire montre de complaisance envers le régime raciste sud-africain et, ce qui est pire, faire perdre confiance à ces mêmes peuples, qui ont mis leur dernier espoir en nous.
23.10 Mesdames et Messieurs, c'est en parlant de la paix que je suis venu à par- ler de colonialisme et de racisme et je m'en voudrais de clore ce sujet sans me référer à la militarisation à outrance que connaît actuellement l'océan Indien. Je parle en connaissance de cause, appartenant à un pays de l'océan Indien, de cet océan qui, mis à part les conflits des puissances coloniales des XVIIe, XVIIIe et XIXe siècles, a été jusqu'ici une zone de paix. Or, dans cette région, d'impor- tantes et dangereuses bases d'opérations ont récemment été établies par des grandes puissances étrangères.
23.11 Nous, peuples de l'océan Indien, qui avons jusqu'ici été épargnés par les grands conflits, qui nous efforçons de bâtir chez nous un ordre social plus juste et plus humain, tentons actuellement de convaindre ces puissances de respecter nos options politiques et sociales anti-impérialistes et de respecter ainsi le prin- cipe : "Océan Indien Zone de Paix". Tel est notre voeu le plus cher. Nous ne com- prenons pas quels sont ces "intérêts vitaux" que d'aucuns prétendent vouloir dé- fendre et protéger dans notre partie du monde alors qu'ils vivent eux-mêmes en paix, à des dizaines de milliers de kilomètres de chez nous ! La paix, cette paix que nous revendiquons comme un droit, n'a pour nous pas de prix. C'est pourquoi, Mesdames et Messieurs, mon pays soutient pleinement les actions entreprises par
459   l'Organisation des Nations Unies en vue de mettre un terme à la course aux arme- ments pour aboutir à une démilitarisation progressive de l'océan Indien. Que les puissances étrangères cessent de bafouer le droit de nos peuples !
23.12 Mesdames et Messieurs, les préoccupations que j'ai mentionnées amènent lo- giquement la délégation seychelloise à approuver et à soutenir pleinement le "Rap- port préliminaire du Directeur général de l'Unesco sur le Plan à moyen terme pour
1984-1989". Y sont développés, avec la pertinence et la vigueur qui s'imposent, certains thèmes tels que le droit à l'éducation, l'éducation pour la compréhension et la paix internationales, la conservation du patrimoine et l'aménagement des ressources naturelles, la libre circulation de l'information scientifique et tech- nique pour ne citer que quelques-uns des nombreux points, tous de grand intérêt, qui devront retenir notre attention lors des débats consacrés au Plan à moyen terme de cette Organisation.
23.13 En ce qui concerne le Projet de programme et budget pour 1981-1983, la délégation de la République des Seychelles se montre satisfaite de l'amélioration apportée au processus de programmation qui assure une meilleure continuité dans l'exécution. Pour ne pas analyser dans le détail cet important document, nous di- rons simplement que l'approche multidisciplinaire et intersectorielle qui a été adoptée, liée à la priorité accordée aux pays en développement, d'une part, et aux projets de caractère opérationnel, d'autre part, nous semble pertinente puisque de nature à accroître l'efficacité et la cohérence des tâches entreprises par l'Organisation.
23.14 Il serait souhaitable cependant que cette amélioration de la programmation soit prolongée par des mesures visant à simplifier et accélérer les processus admi- nistratifs de l'Organisation. Des initiatives dans ce sens permettraient aux pays en développement de bien mieux utiliser l'aide que l'Unesco leur accorde.
23.15 Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, je ne saurais terminer sans me référer aux problèmes de la communication, dont la vingtième Conférence générale s'était déjà préoccupée. Car pour s'entendre à une époque si perturbée, pour y jouir de la paix, il faut d'abord pouvoir communiquer. Cependant, je ne m'étendrai pas sur ce sujet, sauf pour vous demander de vouloir accorder toute votre bienveillante attention au Rap- port du Directeur général sur les conclusions de la Commission internationale qui s'est penchée sur ces problèmes. Car il est grand temps que l'information et les moyens de communication dans notre monde qui se veut moderne et éclairé, soient décolonisés. Or cette tâche, qu'on le veuille ou non, incombe essentiellement à l'Unesco et nous avons le devoir de donner à cette Organisation les moyens de s'en acquitter.
23.16 Me permettrez-vous, Monsieur le Président, de réitérer le soutien total de mon pays et de ma délégation aux objectifs de l'Unesco tels qu'ils ressortent du Projet de programme soumis à la présente Conférence générale, de présenter nos vives félicitations à tous ceux qui ont participé à son élaboration et de marquer notre confiance en la détermination et la capacité du Directeur général à qui mon pays voudrait rendre hommage publiquement. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
24.1 The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Seychelles delegation. Our first speaker tomorrow will be the head of the delegation of Thailand. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting rose at 7 p.m. La séance est levée à 19 heures Se levanta la sesión a las 19.00 Заседание закрывается в 19.00