Fourteenth plenary meeting
30 September 1980 at 2.25 p.m. President: Mr MOTSEPE (Botswana) later: Mr MARGAN (Yugoslavia) Mr TURNOVSKY (New Zealand) Quatorzième séance plénière
30 septembre 1980 a 14 h.25 Président : M. MOTSEPE (Bostwana) Puis : M. MARGAN (Yougoslavie) M. TURNOVSKY (Nouvelle-Zélande) Decimocuarta sesiôn plenaria
19804£ 9H 30H T4 28254 EE. ERM(ЖК) Re: BAHN ER) FRA(HE)     SPECIAL REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION/RAPPORT SPECIAL DE LA COMMISSION ADMINISTRATIVE/INFORME ESPECIAL DE LA COMISION ADMINISTRATIVA/ /CIEMHAIIBHBIA ДОКЛАД АДМИНИСТРАТИВНОЙ КОМИССИИ/ ‎ةيرزاادالا Tall ‎قم el a/ TRE HORAIRE
1.1 The PRESIDENT: I declare open the fourteenth plenary meeting.
1.2 I should like first of all to invite Mr Biggs, Vice-Chairman of the Adminis- trative Commission, to make an oral report in connection with Article IV.C, para- graph 8{c), 0€ the Constitution.
(2.1) Mr BIGGS (Chile), Vice-Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation from the Spanish): Mr President, I reported at the eighth plenary meeting of the General Conference on the Administrative Commission's examination of the communications received from Member States invoking the provisions of Article IV, paragraph 8 (c) of the Constitution. On that occasion the General Conference decided to grant seven Member States the right to vote.
(2.2) Subsequently, the Director-General received a communication from Iran, which appears in document 21 C/33 Add.3, invoking the same provisions. The Administrative Com- mission examined that communication when it met yesterday and recommends that Iran be granted the right to vote at the twenty-first session of the General Conference. Thank you, Mr President. The PRESIDENT: I thank the Vice-Chairman of the Administrative Commission for his report.
3.2 If there are no objections, I shall take it that the plenary accepts the recommendation contained in the report of the Administrative Commission.
3.3 The recommendation is adopted. GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued) /DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite) /DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuaci6n) /OBCYXIIEHHE BOIPOCOB OBHEÀ MOJHTHKH (продолжение) / (ан) ‎ةماعلاةسايسلاةشقانم / 816288 ) 2#
4. The PRESIDENT: I should now like to invite our first speaker this afternoon, H.E. Mr Galo García Feraud, Minister of Education and Culture of Ecuador and head of the Ecuadorian delegation, to take the floor.
(5.1) Mr GARCIA FERAUD (Ecuador) (Translation from the Spanish): Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, "Tears keep the world from its sleep" was the phrase used to heighten the dramatic force of a photograph showing a man overcome by grief and injustice. It was also the phrase we used in Ecuador when submitting to our Quichua population a translation into their own language of the Declara- tion of Human Rights, thus marking our decision resolutely to embark on a process of liberation which will enable those who have lived for centuries in destitution and as social outcasts to enjoy all the benefits to which they are entitled.
(5.2) "Tears keep the world from its sleep" is a phrase well worth repeating to this universal gathering as we seek not only a forum in which to put forward the most exalted and arresting ideas but also a resolute emancipatory decision to convert our energies into real and permanently effective action on behalf of humanity and all the peoples and nations belonging to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
(5.3) Demands for justice, aspirations for a form of freedom based on equality of oppor- tunity without any taint of sectarianism or discrimination and the enjoyment of real peace are ideals that cannot be fulfilled even with the help of new national and international economic orders unless more vigorous and less complicated action is taken to implement the programmes and measures being devised in the national and multinational agencies which, like Unesco, are seeking to satisfy the great needs of our peoples in terms of education, science and culture.
(5.4) A short time ago in one of our historic Latin American capitals I expressed the view that the fulfilment of our countries! needs and aspirations depended less on the eloquence and sophistication of our documentary output and declamatory zeal than on the efficiency and speed of our actions. And although this idea has not the merit either of originality or of ease of application, I think it is worth pondering for a moment in this great world forum. We should remind ourselves that the men and women we represent are looking to us not for magnificant feats of intellectual superiority or of skill in inter- national relations but for concrete action whose results in terms of education, science and culture will satisfy their basic and rightful aspirations.
(5.5) Let it not be thought that I address this distinguished gathering in a spirit of criticism of the genuine efforts that are being made to promote peace and the welfare of our communities. My intention is simply to account for the discernible unease among our people on the return of their representatives. The anguish and despair of many of the communities we represent at this Conference are so great - indeed explosive, if I may be permitted to use the term - that only swift and positive action can restore their confid- ence in domestic and international agencies. Hence a resolution such as resolution 9.1 adopted by the General Conference at its twentieth session, calling on the Director- General and the Executive Board to submit a report on "Unesco's contribution to the establishment of a new international economic order", and the elaboration of this report in document 21 C/12 now submitted for our consideration, which enable us to envisage not only a formal declaration but, in addition, a new kind of action whose speed and practi- cal effectiveness, and whose increased vigour, will inspire our people with the courage that proceeds from truly liberating action.
(5.6) It is unnecessary to reiterate all that has already been said in many of the docu- ments published by Unesco in connection with the deeply felt need for a new international economic order. But we consider it essential to bear in mind the clear warning given us in many of these documents concerning the implications of the principle of the new inter- national economic order inasmuch as it transcends the purely economic plane, and spans a broad spectrum of human and social concerns, which we know to be complex and irreducible, psychosomatic and interactive, in a world that admits of no superficial simplification.
(5.7) We realize the importance of this issue, which has been exceedingly well dealt with in the Director-General's report, when we consider that education, science and culture, together with communication and the social sciences, offer a real opportunity for bringing all our peoples together in a system of values designed to achieve justice, liberty, equal- ity and solidarity, and transcending the formal concept of international relations - fraught with mental reservations and fears, a counter-balancing of powers and pressures. If endeavours in this direction, based on a straightforward and practical assessment of the needs of our communities, succeed in achieving co-determination of the common destiny of humanity, it might become possible to write a new type of history - one not concerned principally with the balance of war but with cultural attainments which are the living expression of communities and reflect the necessary balance between the private dimension of the individual and the communicative dimension of society.
(5.8) The achievement of a new international economic order based, as already noted, on the development of the peoples of the world through interdependence, balanced and harmoni- ous growth, endogenous action taken in the light of the traditional and current values of each national community and of its socio-cultural character, is not an impossible under- taking, if we are prepared to make efforts that go beyond mere verbiage or fine oratory. Such efforts will require a rechannelling of our countries! energies towards constructive projects, the fulfilment of basic needs, the generation of a continual process of develop- ment, and the recognition as the only universal enemies of such phenomena as illiteracy, malnutrition, poverty, lack of communication, the violation of basic human rights, in short of whatever prevents men and women from feeling that they are fully human.
(5.9) And in this connection, the status of women in contemporary society is an issue which has not yet been properly defined or thoroughly investigated. I am not speaking of the vindictive feminism which replaces male by female chauvinism, but rather of a heightened respect for women which, far from undermining the charm of the feminine virtues, enables women to come into their own and exploit their potential to the full both in the productive world and in the running of society, making a contribution as citizens as well as fulfilling women's great and overriding mission as the moral and material support of home and family. This brings to mind the First Lady of our Republic, the lawyer Marta Bucaram de Roldós, and her constant endeavour to ensure that our educational system creates new opportunities for the personal and social fulfilment of women within what we regard as a new order for a new Ecuador.
(5.10) In the context of the urgent need for international social justice within a new order that eliminates unfair inequalities among nations, the scientific and technological gap is undeniably one of the most serious problems awaiting resolution, if we are really concerned to progress from paying mere lip-service to the principle of bridging that gap to the implementation of strategies. With an intuitive wisdom surpassing all intellectual refinement, including that of the contributions made by the most brilliant minds to this twenty-first session of the General Conference, the people are not interested in hearing only about its ideals and objectives but rather about how it is proposed to achieve these aims and make a perceptible contribution to the commongood.
(5.11) On the basis of these premises, I welcome the discerning observations submitted for our consideration in document 21 C/12, particularly those connected with values, with the "ethical dimension" of the problem and with its solutions. International social jus- tice in the framework of a new international order which attaches prime importance to the common destiny of humanity, requires that we promote, alongside efforts to create appro- priate scientific and technological services of our own, a flow of knowledge based on unselfish solidarity and not on a power game revolving round the most outstanding and sophisticated advances which are associated with the hubs of world economic activity. While it would be futile merely to bemoan the gap that separates us from those pinnacles of sci- entific and technological progress, we must hope that recognition of a common system of values will speed the advent of the desired new order, and we therefore welcome and endorse the programmes outlined by Venezuela's Ministry for the Promotion of Knowledge as a step towards narrowing that gap.
(5.12) On the other hand, it is symptomatic that the report on which these general policy reflections are based had to devote a number of important paragraphs to the significance of communication in preparing for a new international economic order. Today's world is undergoing a process of "shrinking", a term used by essayists, sociologists and political scientists to describe the phenomenon of prodigiously escalating information and communica- tion, and not only the dissemination of news but also the inexorably increasing mobility of business, commodities and money, not to mention the increased mobility of persons. In such a world, the panoply of our cultural and national identities, confronted more than ever before with the export and import of fashions, customs and behaviour patterns, is faced with the challenge of the urgent need to foster our countries' personality not only through the preservation and stimulation of past and present expressions of our culture but through efforts to produce and reproduce the characteristics that reflect the salient features of our communal and national identities. Otherwise, there is a danger that the process of acculturation of our peoples by the dominating civilization will prove irreversible.
(5.13) This observation is all the more apposite in the impressively multi-cultural con- text of the Federal Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia with its ethnic pluralism, where identity is forged through the combination of diverse regional cultures, setting a clear example of the possibility of achieving a unified state or the "unity of humanity in the diversity of its peoples, races and cultures", as it was put in the work "Moving towards change - Reflections on the new international economic order". For to love one's country and wish to promote its distinctive image in the community of nations does not necessarily undermine the common cause of humanity but rather contributes to its advancement.
(5.14) This is the task of the peoples of the world and of their social communicators. It is the task of peoples and their rulers in their careful effort to bring about a pro- cess of recognized and dynamic interchange between "cultural action, communication and educational action" in the generation, channelling and utilization of social communication.
(5.15) I should, therefore, like to take this opportunity of asking that emphasis be laid on the organization of cultural services that would encourage the democratization of the instruments and means for ensuring that as many people as possible have free access to and actively participate in cultural life, in accordance with paragraph 4102 of the draft pro- gramme and budget.
(5.16) Let us not forget that acceptance of the new media and methods of social communi- cation implies that our learning processes and even our education are becoming more and more audio-visual. Thus, there is a conflict not only between acculturation processes and cultural processes but also between oral and audio-visual communication media and others based entirely on reading and writing. Hence the need to ensure, on the one hand, that the value of books continues to be appreciated while, on the other hand, generating an out- put of oral and audio-visual material which, while maintaining links with the past, fulfils a definite function in the cultural and educational fields and in the context of training and adult education.
(5.17) When studying the items in our document on the new international economic order I could not but welcome the parallels with the Development Plan implemented in our country by President Roldós in March 1980. That Plan contains an extensive section on cultural policy, which is also singled out as an important element in document 21 C/12. ‘There can be no indigenous and autonomous development plan, even if it does not follow an alienating pattern, which does not, in model form, succeed in catering for all human dimensions, including that of culture, not merely as an expression of the past but as a reflection of a live, palpitating, generative and creative present.
(5.18) And within this broad framework quite a number of differences will have to be taken into account in view of the existence of ethnic groups which must respect each other, notwithstanding the ideal of unity which the state requires and to which mankind aspires. But these differences are more apparent than real because respect for a culture and pride in one's origins, provided they are not regarded as a mere object of tourist curiosity, cannot degenerate into racism or closed circuit entertainment of the kind that denies the bonds uniting humanity. In human groups, as in the case of individuals, the fact of having a distinctive personality does not prevent one from striving to achieve community goals.
(5.19) In the new international order education, which must be intrinsically human, just and community-oriented, will play the role assigned to it by its nature in carrying out the great work of transformation and liberation. Education is not just an empty technical process without any commitment to the population groups of which society is made up. It always has respected and always should respect certain values that influence the purpose it fulfils. So now, as in the past, a number of questions have to be answered: What kind of society are we educating people for? What kind of needs is our educational system being geared to meet? And, thinking out loud to supply the answers to these questions,    though they can never claim to be definitive, I think you will all agree with me, dis- tinguished delegates, when I describe education as a means of "awakening people", as Mounier would put it in his personalist (not individualist) doctrine. "Awakening people" who can develop their critical judgement and creative potential to the full in a context of awareness and of social and communal responsibility. "Awakening persons" in a process of liberation that reminds us of the Pope's reflections on the development of the indivi- dual and of all people; in a process of liberation which enables us to shape our own destiny while maintaining a deep sense of responsibility, because democracy and liberty imply that everybody has the option of participating in the affairs of society in a res- ponsible manner. "Awakening people" in a world where development plans must be brought into line with available human resources, because if modern society claims to be based on humanitarian and community principles it must harmonize scientific and technological advances and their application with the capacity of peoples and nations to absorb and implement them. This is a social problem that no educational system can surmount on its own in the endeavour to render humanity more noble and more just, and to forge links between these objectives and the world's major production requirements.
(5.20) Bearing in mind the scale of the problem which is facing humanity as a whole and many of our individual countries and the solutions that are being sought by means of care- ful deliberation in terms of a soundly based new international order which I would des- cribe as economic and socio-political, it is above all the emergence of new prospects for the achievement of solidarity that justice demands on behalf of the people who still look to us in hope. e The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Ecuadorian delegation and I give the floor to H.E"MrPéter Blaker, MP, Minister or Sate för Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, head of the United Kingdom delegation.
7.1 Mr BLAKER (United Kingdom) : Mr President, allow me to congratulate the President, yourself and your fellow officers on your election and to express our appreciation of the generosity and hospitality of the Government of Yugoslavia in acting as host to this session of the General Conference. It is a particular pleasure for me to be in Belgrade again and to attend my first meeting in the Sava Centre. The Sava Centre has, since its construction three years ago, provided excellent facilities for a large number of international meetings. The holding of a session of the Unesco General Conference in it is further testimony to the Yugoslav Government's continuing work for peace and international co-operation in the broadest sense.
7.2 Earlier this year Belgrade was the scene of a major gathering of world lead- ers called together to bid farewell to the late President of Yugoslavia. I should like to pay my personal tribute to President Tito, who was a great statesman, admired and respected throughout the world. He worked consistently to encourage international understanding and friendship between peoples. It is largely thanks to his efforts that Yugoslavia today is respected as an independent and non- aligned country which seeks to bridge the gaps between East and West and between North and South.
7.3 I should like to extend a warm welcome to all the new members of our Organiza- tion and in particular to those from the Commonwealth.
7.4 I should also like to congratulate the Director-General on his re-election. Many well-deserved tributes were paid to him yesterday, and I associate myself with these. In this connection, I wish to express my government's support for the reso- lute efforts which the Director-General has been making in regard to a servant of the Organization who has been sentenced to imprisonment by the government: of ‘the country from which he comes. This breach of accepted international practice is a serious one, and we should all support the Director-General's continuing efforts to bring the matter to an acceptable conclusion.
7.5 Mr President, at present, at a time when we are moving towards the end of Unesco's first Medium-Term Plan and beginning our consideration of a second Plan which is to guide Unesco's activities until 1990, it is particularly appropriate for us to reflect on our Organization and to appraise critically the role that Unesco should play.
7.6 The range of activities covered by Unesco's mandate is vast, covering the whole spectrum of education, science and culture - all of which contain a multi- tude of complex problems. It is not enough simply to identify the major issues of concern to us. And clearly, even with the best will in the world, Unesco cannot tackle them all. Indeed, if Unesco is to do things well, we must be selective both in choosing what issues it is to tackle, and in defining precisely the contri- bution it can make.
7.7 For our part we believe that once these issues have been defined, Unesco must concentrate its resources on down-to-earth programmes: programmes designed to solve practical problems at the regional and national levels, particulariy in
718        developing countries. To do this, past activities must be evaluated, present pro- grammes closely monitored and efforts made to build on and strengthen existing institutions in the Third World. We should constantly reassess our priorities so that we may better concentrate our energies on those issues of prime concern to Member States. In order to be able to respond to new demands, we must therefore be prepared to curtail, or even abandon, programmes of lesser priority.
7.8 I see this approach as realistic and practical. We must do our best to ensure that Unesco's programmes are of real benefit to the majority of Member States and of direct benefit to their citizens. An example of what I have in mind and which can be followed in other fields is Unesco's programmes to increase the level of literacy in the world. The British Government particularly applauds the efforts that have been made in this field by the Director-General and his col- leagues, and we wish to give him every encouragement to continue his good work.
7.9 The British Government does not regard Unesco as an appropriate forum for considering exclusively political issues. The United Nations itself is clearly the place for that. The British Government does not sympathize with those who seek to exploit the high ideals of the Unesco Constitution and the very broad scope of Unesco operations for sterile political propaganda which has only the most tenuous links with what we believe to be Unesco's true objectives. The British Government deplores the introduction of ideological conflict into Unesco. I do not see how it can benefit Member States to be diverted in this way from the many useful and productive tasks which the Organization can properly undertake.
7.10 In these hard times, we cannot ignore the question of financial resources. In a world recession when most, if not all, Member States find that they are obliged to take painful decisions to reduce public expenditure, which are often unpopular with their own peoples, international organizations such as Unesco can- not be insulated from the need to save money. And, of course, when financial resources are stretched, it is even more important to appraise priorities carefully and make sure that funds allocated are used as efficiently as possible. Money is vital, but I wonder if, in the case of an organization such as Unesco, "more" necessarily means "better". I would be surprised if Unesco could not both make economies and maintain the worth of the contribution it can make to the well-being of the citizens of Member States by cutting out waste, by concentrating efforts and by making sure that programmes represent value for money. In the view of the British Government, politicians, and a fortiori international organizations, have a duty to be guided by the precepts of thrift as they spend their citizens’ money. Indeed we consider that there should be no growth in real terms in Unesco's expen- diture for 1981-1983.
7.11 I wish to relate the general approach of the British Government to a particu- lar area of Unesco's work. I have in mind what is now popularly called communica- tion. Communication does not, of course, fall exclusively within Unesco's compe- tence. Other international organizations also have a role. But for Unesco this is a particularly important subject. I think there can be no doubt that we stand on the threshold of technological advance which will shortly transform the possi- bilities for communication between nations and within them. The microchip revolu- tion is increasing the available means of communication very rapidly, but at a price. Later on the cost of the new technology will fall. But we now find our- selves in a situation where awareness of the importance of communication is increas- ing as is the awareness of the unequal capabilities of Member States in this Field.
7.12 The British Government is in no doubt as to the importance of communications. We favour all reasonable efforts to encourage and increase the free flow of accur- ate information within and between countries. Familiarity may breed contempt but ignorance is positively dangerous. We only have to consider the disastrous con- flicts in Europe in the first half of this century. Ignorance of one's neighbours was, I am sure, one of the reasons why it was possible for politicians, supported by their citizens, to launch futile struggles against neighbours with whom essen- tially they had much in common.
7.13 Communication is an important but an expensive activity. Even in a small, developed and relatively homogeneous country such as Britain, running newspapers, for example, is a risky business. I recognize that in poor countries with com- paratively low levels of literacy, the position can be even more difficult. Such countries find it difficult both to develop adequate means of internal communica- tion and to receive news of the outside world. And they may feel that the news of their own activities that reaches the outside world is biased and filtered through unsympathetic spectacles.
7.14 We have before us at this conference the Director-General's report on the findings of the International Commission for the Study of Communication Problems. The MacBride Report covers the whole complex of communication and information    issues. It draws together much previously dispersed material. In this respect it has contributed to our continuing debate. However, it is not, and indeed never was intended to be, a definitive work. I have noted with interest the Director- General's statement that the Commission did not feel it was in a position to pro- pose a global strategy for a new international communication and information order. The British Government indeed would question very much whether any such grand strategy and definition was necessary or practical. The only new world order that makes sense to us is one which significantly improves existing arrangements. We believe quite simply that communication does not lend itself to imposed uniformity or international regulations. Diversity must be maintained.
7.15 We are pleased, then, that the Director-General's report in no way seeks a general endorsement of the recommendations of the MacBride Report. We have very serious reservations about many of them. My delegation will explain its views in more detail at the appropriate time during the debate on this item of the agenda, but I wish now to draw your attention to areas of particular concern. We recognize the many constraints on a commission of this kind. The consensus reached is quite an achievement. We recognize that, inevitably, the recommendations may lack preci- sion, that they may be ambiguous or at least open to several interpretations, that they may be inconsistent or even contradictory. Nevertheless, the language is often regrettably obscure, and I must say that the overall impression left by the recommendations is one which we cannot accept. This impression is that the evi- dent imbalances in the field of communication should be corrected by increased state intervention, or by international directives.
7.16 The centralist approach to communication seems to be mirrored by a negative, even pejorative, approach towards many of the communication structures that have been established in the developed market economy countries. It often seems to be assumed that commercial considerations will inevitably produce adverse consequences in the media. This assumption is made with scant evidence, and without any corres- ponding effort to ascertain if this method of operation might in fact have positive advantages. Nor is it counterbalanced by any similar considerations on the adverse effects of state control of the media. Of course, there are some positive elements in the report, and there are some recommendations, such as 44 and 56, which are wholly admirable.
7.17 There are two basic conceptions of the role of communication. One sees com- munication and information simply as an instrument of power, as the prerogative of the state and wholly subservient to the political, social and cultural policies of the government concerned. The government therefore prohibits or excludes all information which it feels its citizens should not know. Indeed, during the recent developments in Poland in which the rest of the world has rightly shown intense interest, reception of the BBC's Russian Service and other Western broadcasts has been jammed by the Soviet authorities. My government has protested to the Govern- ment of the Soviet Union on this clear contravention of the provisions of the CSCE Final Act which requires its signatories, and I quote: "to make it their aim to facilitate a freer and wider dissemination of information of all kinds". This action also clearly contravenes Article 35 of the Convention of Unesco's sister organization, the International Telecommunication Union. The jamming continues, and is wholly inconsistent with Unesco's own principles, notably those enshrined in the Constitution, with its reference to "the unrestricted pursuit of objective truth and ... the free exchange of ideas and knowledge".
7.18 The other view is that the freedom of opinion and the freedom to seek and exchange ideas and information, are fundamental human rights which - in a democ- racy - cannot be eroded. This latter view is clearly our own, and I must state quite bluntly that we cannot be party to any resolutions or programmes which would seek to derogate from these rights, or which in practice would impair them.
7.19 Freedom to criticize may be sometimes disagreeable to those in government, but it is nevertheless an essential element in the proper functioning of a democ- racy. We all hope that such criticism will be constructive and not simply destruc- tive; similarly we all deplore the trivialization and distortion that ‘occur in the free and the controlled press alike. But this is not an area for legislation. Improvements in the media can only be achieved through the exercise of self- discipline and responsibility by those in the media themselves, and through the existence of a well-informed and critical audience. It is of fundamental import- ance for an organization such as Unesco, with its noble aims, to ensure that there is the widest possible contact and flow of information, not only between govern- ments or journalists, but also between scientists, artists, educationists and ordinary citizens of every country.
7.20 We cannot accept that it should be a function of Unesco to devote its ener- gies to the development of universally imposed international standards in the field of communication - with regard to the protection of journalists, for example. in his connection, 1 would make at this stage only two points: firvstiy, that if    basic human rights were assured for all there would be no need for special protec- tion for journalists; secondly that we should fully endorse Recommendation 50 of the MacBride Report, which emphasizes the dangers of a special status for journalists.
7.21 Mr President, as I have said, we recognize that there are imbalances in the capacity of countries, and also of groups and individuals within countries, to communicate. We share the common aspiration to see these gaps reduced. The remedy, however, lies not in the regulation or restriction of existing information flows, but rather in the development of greater capacities to communicate. Mutual under- standing is advanced by more, and not by less communication. Nothing, for instance, is so effective in ensuring what is called "balance" as providing the audience with many sources of information, and the freedom to discuss this information and to choose for itself.
7.22 Therein lies Unesco's role. The Organization must not become the stage for the propagation of one single view of communication; it must be concerned to develop greater capacities and should leave aside the political and ideological rhetoric which has characterized much of the communication debate until now. Per- haps we have had enough studies, and enough meetings to discuss these studies, to provide us all with sufficient food for thought. What Unesco should now do is to consider how it might make a contribution to the practical issues involved.
7.23 Unesco should, for instance, concern itself with the training of journalists and broadcasters, concentrating on the development of practical skills. Training through courses, seminars or workshops in the Third World could be supplemented by exchange programmes for experienced professionals. Unesco could act also as a clearing-house, helping to assess and register training needs and matching the latter to existing resources. The proper choice, introduction and application of the new technologies is another area of obvious importance where Unesco can help. But at the same time the Organization must not neglect the many aspects of communi- cation outside the context of the news media - for example in education or in the explanation of development plans.
7.24 In the communication sector, Unesco now has an opportunity to make just such a contribution to these practical issues. The Intergovernmental Conference for Co- operation on Activities, Needs and Programmes for Communication Development adopted by consensus, and in a spirit of goodwill, a recommendation concerning the estab- lishment of an intergovernmental programme for the development of communication. We hope that this same spirit will be present in our further consideration of this programme, so that it may evolve in an efficient and business-like manner. It was clear at the Intergovernmental Conference, and is indeed echoed in the MacBride Report, that there is a need for a consultative mechanism which would facilitate the co-ordination of communication aid. We trust that the new international pro- gramme can fulfil this objective.
7.25 These, Mr President, are the various practical questions to which I hope we can address ourselves. They do not perhaps affect us all in the same way. Some of us, for example, believe that our telecommunications authorities must make their own judgements on tariffs, in the light - of course - of consultations in the appropriate forum. Perhaps there are also cases where the exchange of news between developing countries themselves is limited by the level of tariffs which it would be within the power of their own authorities to modify. There may also be further scope for consultation between supplier countries and institutions and the developing countries, concerning the provision of communications "hardware".
7.26 The MacBride Report and the documents laid before the Intergovernmental Con- ference have drawn attention also to the relatively small amounts of development assistance allocated to communication. We should ask ourselves why this is so. Most multilateral and bilateral aid 1x, after all, allocated largely iin response to the wishes of the recipient countries. What seems to be needed, then, is not another channel of funds but rather a reassessment, at both the national and international levels, of the priority accorded to communication, and indeed of priorities within the communication sector itself. Surely this must be one of the first tasks of any new international programme?
7.27 For our part, we have a long and continuing record of substantial assistance to the communication sector from both governmental and private sources, and we are willing to continue this aid in the future.” British assistance has ranged widely, including, for example, major telecommunication programmes worth tens of millions of pounds, such as the third Nepal Telecommunications Project, which we are financ- ing with the World Bank, and the improvement of the telecommunications system in India and a number of Asian countries by the laying of a submarine cable across the Indian Ocean from Madras to Penang in Malaysia. We have also undertaken many speci- fic training schemes and programmes for the exchange of personnel. In our view,    this flexible approach has the very considerable advantage of being adaptable to the particular needs and circumstances of individual countries. We do not seek to impose upon them an artificial uniform pattern. Our approach emphasizes self- reliance, and enables the communication sector to be integrated fully into national development plans. In addition, much valuable work has been done and continues to be done by professional associations and non-governmental organizations. This form of co-operation is of the utmost importance, and is of direct benefit to the devel- oping countries. I would reiterate that this is an area where we feel that the immensely important contribution that has been and is being made from non-governmental sources in the developed countries has been seriously neglected both in the discus- sions here and in the MacBride Report. The British public and private sectors stand ready to share our expertise and to assist where we can with the development of communication.
7.28 Mr President, in the communication sector, as in the other parts of Unesco's programmes, we should focus on the clearly defined areas where Unesco can make a positive contribution. In this way, we can together achieve something worth while. We must not dissipate our energies in ideological confrontation - perhaps by try- ing to reopen the debate on the Mass Media Declaration. Our task now is to elicit the support of those who are best able to help, and whose goodwill and co-operation are required if we are to advance one of Unesco's main purposes: the spread of understanding and of truth. Thank you, Mr President.
(9.1) Mr NAJI (Palestine Liberation Organization) (Translation from the Arabic): Mr President, heads of delegations, distinguished delegates, it gives me great pleasure to begin my remarks by congratulating the President on his election as President of this Conference, which is an expression both of the extent of the respect which he enjoys personally and of esteem for the role played by Yugoslavia as the leader of the Non-Aligned Movement. It also gives me great pleasure to address my warmest congratula- tions to the Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, on his unanimous election to a second term as Director-General of Unesco. This unanimity is a reflection of the extent of the esteem which Mr M'Bow enjoys among all the nations and peoples of the world as a result of the efforts he has devoted to achieving Unesco's goals of service to mankind and to peace. With your permission, I should like to convey the greetings of the Pales- tine Liberation Organization, the sole legitimate representative of our people, the Palestinian Arab people. I also bring greetings from our brother Yasser Arafat, Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Palestine Liberation Organization, to your distinguished Conference at its twenty-first session. In addition, I should like to express our esteem for the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, where this distinguished Conference is being held - a land whose friendly peoples are imbued with the values of peace, fraternity and understanding among peoples, regardless of differences in cultural origin and the fact that they speak different languages, and a land which has witnessed deeds of heroism, which will live forever, under the leadership of the late President, Josip Broz Tito, who was always a true friend to our people, the Palestinian Arab people, ang to all“ 1 struggling to secure their freedom, independence and progress. The course set b great leader, Tito, will continue to be followed by Tito's comrades and associates; will carry his work to completion, both in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugo and in the Non-Aligned Movement which he founded and guarded. He was anxious to the last Non-Aligned Conference before his death.
(9.2) Our country, Palestine, was a land of love and peace, and it had witnessed many civilizations and had been a cradle of monotheistic religions. Its inhabitants, both Arabs and Jews, lived on its kindly soil in love and harmony, in mutual understanding and equality, until Zionist racism came to our land, supported by world imperialism, which wanted by that means to set up a base of support in the heart of our Arab homeland, from which it could continue to threaten the security of our Arab nation and plunder our national wealth and resources. The result was that our land, which had been so kindly throughout history, a land of peace and amity, was turned into a pit of tension and violence during a period of over half a century. In the course of that period, Zionism engaged in various forms of racial discrimination, killing and destruction, and it up- rooted a large part of the Palestinian Arab people from their land and drove them out to become a people of refugees, living a wretched and rootless existence in camps. In their place, in their land, the Zionists set up a racist entity which ranks as one of the vilest forms of colonialism throughout all human history, and that entity proceeded to engage in repeated assaults and aggressive wars against the Palestinian people and the other Arab    peoples, supported by a racist ideology and expansionist fascist practices, until now it has occupied the whole of the land of Palestine, in addition to other Arab territories as a result of the aggression of June 1967.
(9.3) The Zionists have rejected and continue to pay no heed to the resolutions of the international community from 1947 to our own day, including United Nations resolutions, which confirm the inalienable rights of our people to return, to determine their own future and to establish an independent state on the soil of their homeland. The most important of these resolutions was United Nations resolution No. 3236; this resolution was adopted in 1974 and was confirmed by a resolution adopted in 1976, and also resolution No. 1 adopted at the seventh Special Session of 1980. All these resolutions have con- firmed the inalienable rights of the Palestinian Arab people and called upon Israel to withdraw completely and to respect the national rights of the Palestinian Arab people. In addition, there have been repeated Security Council resolutions, particularly resolution No. 476 on the Arab city of Jerusalem. This was the seventh resolution within a three- month period to condemn the repeated aggressive acts directed against the holy city and calling for the preservation of its Arab and Islamic character. Your Conference has also adopted resolutions concerning education and culture in the occupied Palestinian and Arab territories.
(9.4) Israel applies various forms of violence and oppression against the people of Palestine in the occupied homeland. It engages in repeated wars of aggression against the children, women and old men of our people in our camps in Lebanon. It expropriates Arab land within the occupied territories and sets up colonies on it; the total amount of the land so expropriated since the aggression of June 1967 is more than two million dunums, and the people. who live there have been deprived of the sole means of livelihood available to them and to their children. Nor have the Zionists responded to the resolu- tions adopted by the Security Council and the United Nations calling for a halt to the expropriation of land and declaring such expropriation to be unlawful and contrary to international law. They confront initiatives undertaken by our people within our occupied homeland with violence and terrorism, and they impose cruel and inhuman conditions upon Palestinians held in Israeli prisons, and this has resulted in many of them meeting martyrs deaths; the most recent examples have been three resistance fighters who died in the desert prison of Nafha. The Zionists also expel men of science and culture and community leaders; the most recent examples have been two members of the Council for Higher Education in the occupied territory, Fahd al-Qawasmi, Mayor of the town of Hebron, and Muhammad Mulhim, the Mayor of Halhul. Sheikh Rajab al-Tamimi, the Sharia judge for the town of Hebron, and Dr Walid Mustafa, the head of the geography department in the Al-Najah National University, have also been sent into exile. The Zionists have refused to accede to United Nations resolutions calling for a halt to this fascist and inhuman policy and demanding that the exiled persons be allowed to return to their homes. Israel has also engaged in vicious aggression against community leaders in the occupied territories, attempting to liquidate them by terrorist means; as a result, Bassam Shakaa, the Mayor of Nablus, has lost both legs, while Karim Khalf, the Mayor of Ramallah, has lost a foot. The Security Council and the United Nations have condemned these outrages.
(925) The Zionists also close universities, institutes and schools; most recently, edu- cational institutions in Bir Zeit, al-Nabta, Bethlehem, Bitunya and Beit Sahur were closed before the end of the current academic year. The Israelis also distort curricula, and have refused to include many prescribed books. In addition, they have closed the College of Science in Jerusalem, which was a nucleus for the University of Jerusalem, on the pre- text that it was too close to the public road and was a threat to safety. Recently the government issued Military Order No. 854, dated 6 July 1980, amending Education Law No. 16, which was passed in 1964 and which had been in effect on the West Bank. According to this amendment, the universities within the occupied territories come under the jurisdiction of the Education Officer, who is assisted by the military Governor-General. This amendment is regarded as the most dangerous of the various plans aimed at hamstringing the universi- ties and preventing them from playing their role as national institutions of education. It gives those in charge of the military government broad powers of decision regarding the bases of acceptance of students and teachers, and it threatens the existence of these institutions. This amendment also gives the Education Officer the power to accept, dis- miss or suspend any member of the teaching bodies of these universities, as well as the power to refuse to accept any student's graduation certificates for security reasons. The occupying authorities use these powers as a means of intimidating professors in the uni- versities and preventing the latter from acquiring experienced and competent staff; they also use these powers as a means of inducing skilled personnel to emigrate and getting them out of the occupied territories. This amendment considers citizens of the Gaza sec- tor to be "aliens" who cannot be accepted at West Bank universities without permission in writing from the Military Governor. This amendment is contrary to international law, especially the 1949 Geneva Convention, which provides that an occupying power may not alter the conditions prevailing in the occupied territory.
(9.6) Israel has reached the summit of its defiance of the international community, and its disregard of the resolutions of the Security Council, the United Nations and the eighteenth, nineteenth and twentieth sessions of your Conference concerning the Arab city of Jerusalem, in decreeing the annexation of Jerusalem and declaring it to be the coun- try's capital. This reveals the continuing spuriousness of Israel's peaceful pretensions, and shows its racist nature, which was identified in United Nations resolution 3379, stat- ing that Zionism was a form of racism and racial discrimination, after referring to United Nations resolution No. 1904, in which the United Nations called for the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination. The most recent Security Council resolution condemned the decree annexing Arab Jerusalem, declared that all action taken by Israel in Arab Jerusalem was null and void, called upon the nations of the world not to recognize the decree of annexation, asked any of them which had their embassies in Jerusalem to transfer them elsewhere, and invited the Secretary-General of the United Nations to submit a report not later than 15 November of this year concerning Israel's compliance with the said resolution.
(9.7) The importance of these resolutions consists in their enforceability, because the Zionist entity has consistently refused and still refuses to pay any attention to interna- tional resolutions in favour of the national rights of the people of Palestine. Hence the importance of taking deterrent measures which will compel Israel to implement the resolu- tions of the international community, in light of the considerations which we have just reviewed, namely Israel's aggressive and racist policy vis-3-vis the people of Palestine and the Arab nation, its continuing refusal to implement any of the resolutions of the international community, including resolutions of the United Nations and the Security Coun- cil, concerning the Palestinian issue and the question of the occupied territories, partic- ularly Arab Jerusalem, and its defiance of the entire international community, displaying contempt for all of that community's resolutions, thereby causing an increase in tension and threatening international peace and security. Since Israel's racist anc fascist prac- tices are incompatible with the lofty goals of Unesco, and since Israel stands as an obstacle in the way of the achievement of a just and lasting peace in the area, we call upon your distinguished Conference to adopt a resolution expelling Israel from Unesco.
(9.8) Mr President, our people bear the weapon of knowledge side by side with their struggle to liberate their occupied land. The Palestinians occupy a noteworthy cultural position among Third World states because of the proportion of educated people among them. Palestinian scientific personnel participate with fellow Arab peoples in advancing the operation of scientific and cultural progress in our Arab homeland, and similarly the Palestine Liberation Organization participates in all scientific and cultural activities in the context of the Arab Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization (ALECSO), Unesco's regional activities, and all scientific and cultural activities of international bodies. The PLO is also co-operating with Unesco in a major cultural and scientific project: working to establish the Palestinian Open University, one of the objectives of which is to provide the 40,000 students who complete their secondary studies each year with an opportunity to attend university. Only a fraction of them have such an opportun- ity at present; over three-quarters of the total are denied it. The PLO has also set up a large educational complex for the children of Palestinian martyrs, covering all stages of educational and vocational training; furthermore, it is establishing secondary, prep- aratory and primary schools in many camps in order to make the opportunity for education available to many of our young men and women and to our children who have never had any such opportunity owing to unsatisfactory material conditions.
(9.9) I must add that UNRWA has participated in the education of a great many of the children of our people in the course of past years. However, it is incessantly claiming to be in the throes of repeated budget crises and threatening entire educational levels. This imaginary financial squeeze is actually a political manoeuvre, the purpose of which is to deny our people opportunities for education and employment. It is an attempt to evade the responsibility of the international community, which to date has been unable to compel Israel to allow the Palestinians to return to their homes and their country. The practice of threatening a broad sector of teachers, pupils and students, every year, with a cessation of their educational activities is a plot directed against our people, the Palestinian people. Consequently, we demand that an end be put to this issue, which is repeated every year, and that the international community seriously participate in making full support available to UNRWA and providing it with a permanent budget.
(9.10) Our people have chosen to struggle by all political, cultural and military means to retain our inalienable national rights, which have been recognized by the United Nations General Assembly. We are struggling to put a halt to the murder, destruction and expulsion of our children, our women, our old men, in order to translate the United Nations resolutions into reality. With us in this struggle stands the Arab nation, in the foremost trench, and supporting us we have the friendly socialist nations and our fellow Islamic nations and the non-aligned nations and national liberation movements, and all the progressive forces in the world. Against us stands world imperialism, under the leader- ship of the United States of America, with its enmity to the people of Palestine and the entire Arab nation. The imperialist forces offer all forms of military, political and economic support, providing Israel with an arsenal of advanced weapons and new types of devastation, to enable Israel to continue to make its assaults and to wage its wars of aggression against the camps of our people, the Palestinian people, and against our fellow Arab peoples. This makes Israel more arrogant and obdurate in denying the national rights of the Palestinian Arab people and those of our Arab nation.
(9.11) The Camp David agreements constitute the pinnacle of the American imperialist con- spiracy against our Palestinian people and our Arab nation by attempting to split the Arab ranks, winning over President Sadat's regime, and denying the national rights of the people of Palestine by means of the "autonomy" plot, which our people, both inside and outside the occupied area, firmly reject. Every day more of us fall victims in our struggle against the Camp David conspiracy to eliminate us. The most striking result of that plot has been to free Israel's hands to extend its area of settlement and to step up the expropriation of the lands of Palestinian peasants, to intensify its policy of violence, murder and destruction within the occupied territory and against the Palestinian camps and Lebanese people in Lebanon, and to pass a decree annexing the Arab city of Jerusalem. It has been conclusively demonstrated in practice that the Camp David agree- ments have not achieved peace and stability in the region, and Israel's practices have revealed the falsity of the claims made by Presidents Carter and Sadat to the effect that those agreements would result in peace. Begin has officially announced that the remaining part of the Sinai will not be returned to Egypt after the breakdown of negotiations over autonomy, and the level of war and violence has risen higher in the region since the sign- ing of the Camp David agreements. Not a day passes without Israel's engaging in aggression by air, sea or land against the peaceable dwelling-places of unoffending Lebanese and Palestinian people in southern Lebanon. Is this their idea of peace?
(9.12) Our people, like all other peoples in the world, aspires to peace, security, brotherhood, and mutual understanding between peoples. However, we refuse to accept a    peace that denies our undeniable and inalienable national rights, which have been con- firmed by the United Nations General Assembly and supported by all the forces of progress and liberation in the world. Our people greet all national liberation movements and all forces for progress and democracy in the world, as well as the friendly socialist states, our fellow Islamic states and the non-aligned states. We greet the peoples of Zimbabwe and Nicaragua, who have obtained their freedom and independence, and we greet the peoples of South Africa and Namibia, who are still struggling against racism.
(9.13) Mr President, we have examined the draft programme and budget for this session, and we have found that it contains many positive elements which are consistent with the lofty goals of Unesco, particularly with respect to support for national cultures, the development of education among poor peoples, and the struggle to achieve their indepen- dence and national rights. We offer our thanks to the Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, who has played and continues to play a prominent role in preserving the goals of this international organization, and who devotes his human efforts and great heart to the task of watching over the issues of education, culture and science for all the world's struggling peoples, particularly those of Third World nations, sparing no endeavour to implement the Organization's resolutions in order to preserve its reputation and standing. Thanks to him, the Organization has acquired a fresh impetus in its progress towards the realization of dts lofty goals.
(9.14) In order that we may participate in the implementation of the noble principles upon which Unesco is founded and the eradication of racist concepts, in order that we may participate in the building of the lofty edifice of a lasting peace and the spread of the spirit of love and. brotherhood throughout the world, we implore this distinguished Conference to stand with our people, the Palestinian Arab people, in our effort to pre- serve our cultural heritage, which extends over more than three thousand years, and to bring about the implementation of United Nations resolutions pertaining to our people and our case, and the implementation of Unesco's resolutions concerning the preservation of culture and the safeguarding of education in the occupied territories, and to take the necessary steps to compel Israel to observe and implement those resolutions.  I wish this distinguished Conference every success in achieving its goals. Thank you.
10.7 [The PRESIDENT: I thank the observer for the Palestine Liberation Organization, and I give the floor to H.E. Mr José Luis Cabago, Minister of Information of Mozambique and head of the Mozambican delegation. (Mr Margan took the Chair)
11.1 Mr CABAGO (Mozambique) : Mr President, Mr Director-General, honourable delegates, ladies and gentle- men, in the name of the People's Republic of Mozambique, I would like to address a special greeting to this twenty-first session of the General Conference and to the distinguished delegates present here. I congratulate His Excellency the President of this "Conference on his"election. "Ian certain that, under his leadership, we shall all be able to conclude our work successfully. I am equally certain that, in an atmosphere of frank and open dialogue, we shall be able to find the most positive and just solutions to the problems under discussion at this meeting, which are of fundamental concern for our peoples and for all mankind.
11.2 The holding of this meeting once more underlines the outstanding role of Unesco as an international forum for the discussion of the fundamental problems of our age. Unesco has been able to take on its important task of encouraging debate and international co-operation within the fields that make up its special area: education, science, research, culture, communication and information.
11.3 For these important results, the People's Republic of Mozambique salutes His Excellency the Director-General, Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, who has directed the activities of Unesco with clear-sightedness and great sensitivity. His fine intelligence, together with his deep knowledge and understanding of the realities and aspirations of ‘today's world, are for us a guarantee ‘that, under his leader- ship, Unesco will continue to fight for the total liberation of pecples and for the cultural and scientific progress of 'mankifid. I take this opportunity, Mr President,” to associate myself with the previous speakers and, on behalf of my delegation and myself, I congratulate this Conference on its unanimous decision to re-entrust Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow with the office of Director-General of our Organization.
11.4 We have witnessed with satisfaction the development of relations between Unesco and the People's Republic of Mozambique. Engaged as we are in making this decade the decade of victory over underdevelopment in our country, we believe that the deepening of relations of co-operation between the People's Republic of Mozambique and Unesco can contribute much to our complete liberation from the consequences of colonial domination, both in'the ‘economic sphersandin the 'con- text of the broad struggle launched for the cultural liberation of society and the mental decolonization of our people.
11.5 ‘Your Excellencies, it is a great honour for the People's Republic of Mozambique to participate in an important meeting such as this now taking place in this beautiful capital of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
11.6 Yugoslavia, a socialist country and a member of the Non-Aligned Movement, to which our country is proud to belong, won an outstanding place in the community of nations by the glorious struggle conducted by its people, under the leadership of President Josip Broz Tito, against occupation and exploitation. Allow me to recall here the figure of this eminent statesman, founder of the Non-Aligned Movement, outstanding anti-Fascist fighter in the cause of the liberation of peoples, to whose memory I pay a tribute of profound respect.
11.7 The cause of the liberation has won new and important victories this year. The international community has one more independent country, born of the heroic struggle of its people, the Republic of Zimbabwe. We applaud its admission to our midst as a sovereign nation, freed from colonialism and racism. The independence of Zimbabwe should be a reasonable motive for pride for all of us. It is the result of immense sacrifices made in the armed struggle for national liberation by the Zimbabwean people, but it is also the fruit of the efforts of the international community to put an end to the illegal regime of the racist, colonialist majority. Mankind has shown once again that it does not want colonialism and racism. History has proved once more that colonialism, racial discrimination, oppression and humilia- tion are bound to be overthrown.
11.8 Mr President, the People's Republic of Mozambique must be added to the long list of countries that are facing the scourge of underdevelopment because of cen- turies of colonial exploitation. Underdevelopment, the fundamental problem of our era, is an economic, social and ideological stigma which threatens the progress of the overwhelming majority of mankind, condemned to live in poverty, hunger, sick- ness, ignorance and obscurantism. Despite innumerable symposia, seminars, assem- blies, conferences and other forms of international dialogue, despite various deci- sions, resolutions and recommendations approved on the matter, despite even the perseverance with which the developing countries have, in public and in private, drawn attention to the grave situation, we still see little progress towards chang- ing the present situation of inequality. What we do see is a strong tendency towards a continual increase in the already immense gap that separates the devel- oped from the developing nations.
11.9 The great inequalities that we see today in the level of development of nations are not a matter of destiny. The phenomenon of underdevelopment is not unrelated to colonialism. Unequal development has its roots in the historical relations of dependence created by the colonial powers vis-a-vis their former possessions. The economic, technical and scientific development that the colonial powers and their associates enjoyed, resulting from the pillaging of-our' countries, today constitutes the main weapon in the attempt to perpetuate domination and imperialist exploitation, The present international order, whether we talk of the international economic order or whether we talk of the international information order, jreflects-in:its structüresand-in its mature-the relations of domination and exploitation engendered by the colonial metropolis.
11.10 As in so many other countries in the world, colonial domination, apart from its barbarity towards people and nature, completely halted the normal develop- ment of the economic, cultural and social structures in Mozambican society. Portu- guese colonialism reversed the mechanism of development of the Mozambican economy in order to place it in its own sphere of domination. In Mozambique, as in other underdeveloped countries, it was not national needs which stimulated the increase in surpluses for export. These were completely unrelated to the logic of develop- ment of a national economic system. Thus our nations saw their economies shattered and linked up to models destined to serve the interests of foreign countries. Against this background, the development of the colonial metropolis was pursued at the cost of underdevelopment in the colonized territories.
11.11 The need to preserve and prolong this model of exploitation determined the need to dominate the cultural sphere. The example of the values, behaviour and cultural patterns of the colonizer of European civilization was set before our people. Its assimilation was a fundamental condition for access to the periphery of urban society, to the left-overs from the colonial banquet. The overwhelming majority were left with the emptiness of their own alienation. Mocked and humili- ated by the impossibility of assimilation, they were convinced of their own incapa- city, of the mystic fatalism of their own inferiority, of their destiny to be marg- inal to society, of their dependence and of their impotence tc change the world for their own benefit.
11.12 To assume passivity as a philosophy, mediocrity as a pattern, and the present as the future, is to assume underdevelopment as a natural condition.
11.13 According to the experience of our revolution, this is the essence of mental colonization and the implantation of a real ideology of underdevelopment, which is part of neo-colonial domination and imperialist exploitation.
11.14 The launching of our armed struggle for national liberation against foreign occupation represented a profound qualitative leap in the break with colonialism. The launching of the armed struggle created the conditions for overcoming inferior- ity complexes and affirming the cultural personality of the Mozambican nation. The armed struggle constituted a forge for the nation and for national unity. The free- dom fighters of FRELIMO, the vanguard that organized and led the Mozambican people in the struggle, were men and women of various regions, ethnic groups and races. No sooner had we got together, than colonialism began concentrating all its efforts with the aim of dividing us. But a common will united us to expel colonialism and liberate our country. Engaged in the common struggle, we discovered common experi- ences under the yoke of colonialism. Portuguese colonialism did not discriminate between us in oppression. Living together, fighting together, producing together, singing and dancing together, Mozambicans of every origin, between us we had a fusion of different experiences. Together we were able to synthesize the richest cultural values which reflected the new reality with more expression. Together we learned to recognize each other as citizens of the same country. In this process regionalism, tribalism and racism began to die away.
11.15 It was also in the armed struggle that the firstisocial development model of a national and popular character was conceived. Our practice in the struggle against colonialism in all its forms is what taught us socialism and led us to be socialists. We organized agricultural and handcraft production which, serving to combat poverty and hunger, restored to Mozambicans the dignity and the true value of their labour. We introduced scientific methods to treat and cultivate the land.
11.16 Children and adults heard for the first time in our schools that Mozambique is Mozambique and not Portugal. They learned the history of their forebears, their heroic traditions of resistance and struggle, the geography of their country and the Mozambican culture.
11.17 In the field of health care, we made great efforts to equip curative medi- cine units; we promoted health education for the people; and we have consider- ably developed the prevention of disease by vaccination and prophylaxis.
11.18 In the scientific and technical fields, we have concentrated on increasing efficiency in agriculture and education. Particular stress was laid from the beginning on the development of basic technology to make the principle of self- reliance a reality.
11.19 We supported and promoted artistic and cultural creation through sculpture, music, singing, dancing, poetry and the theatre.
11.20 The armed liberation struggle, under the leadership of the Mozambique Liberation Front, gave a national dimension to the cultural personality of the Mozambican people. We learned that true cultural identity in its national dimen- sion reaches the level of people's minds, only if there is a clear break with colonialism, regionalism and tribalism.
11.21 Mr President, lack of staff, lack of material and lack of technical equip- ment, heavy economic dependence and a bureaucratic and anachronistic state appara- tus were the legacy left to us by colonialism. In addition, social, commercial and other infrastructures capable of responding to the people's needs were scarce. Guided by our experience during the liberation struggle, we decided to mobilize the creative energy of the people to overcome the challenge which was presented to us by underdevelopment. We then moved on to the organization of our economy, to make it correspond to the national interests. We defined agriculture as the base for development, and industry as the dynamizing factor. Agricultural development was structured on the basis of communal villages (our social units of integrated development). Production took the form of agricultural co-operatives, state farms, private farms and the family farming sector. +
11.22 The communal villages are cities of the future in our country, in which the wide dispersion of the population and a very low population density are among the great obstacles to development. In many cases they already benefit from social infrastructures such as wells, schools, clinics, literacy centres and consumer co-opsratives:
11.23 Also in the economic sphere, we are developing the strategy of gradually breaking the strong relation of dependency on South Africa created by Portuguese colonialism. To this effect our country, together with other states in the region, namely Angola, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe, is increasing regional economic co-operation in the perspective of complementarity with a view to increasing integration of the development efforts of the nine countries:
11.24 If it is true that the war of aggression led against us by the racist regime of Southern Rhodesia made our economic and reconstruction efforts more difficult,
730    it is also true-that, in a short space Of time, It afforded us much hard but fruit- ful experience. A large part of the results of our work, in material and human resources, had however to be used to build a solid defence capacity. The option proved itself correct when in September last year, the illegal regime tried without success to destroy our country in order to weaken the position of the Patriotic Front at Lancaster House. This great effort once again constituted the great uni- versity of our people. National unity was strengthened and the people's confidence in their own capacities also emerged strengthened by the victory won. The Zimbab- wean struggle showed us our own potentialities and made clear to each one of us the decisive role of cultural domination and the brutality of the values imposed on us.
11.25 Mr President, we in the People's Republic of Mozambique, because we want progress and well-being for our people, have set ourselves a gigantic challenge. We have thus decided to make the decade of 1980-1990 the decade of victory against underdevelopment. It is a challenge torour organizational capacity. "M ÿs"'a chal- lenge to our creative and imaginative power. The certainty which stimulates us is rooted in our knowledge of the concrete reality of our people and of our country. This certainty stems from the consciousness of our strengths and weaknesses.
11.26 There are big obstacles in our way: vestiges of the concepts, organization and methods inherited from colonialism. So we have decided to step up the fight against the ideology of underdevelopment, the ideology of indiscipline, of corrup- tion and disorganization. We are thus deepening the struggle for the decoloniza- tion of people's minds, in other words, for the eradication of passivity, sub- missiveness, mediocrity and fatalism.
11.27 This political and organizational offensive has taken on a cultural and ideological dimension, and an analysis of it enables us to draw important conclu- sions for the life of our people and the future of our country. It has shown that underdevelopment is always accompanied by its own ideological substratum which guarantees its survival and continuity. The underdeveloped person is culturally conditioned by this ideology. He cannot conceive of the possibility of no longer being underdeveloped. This ideology of underdevelopment is deeply rooted in today's world. iThesveryrconceptiof:"aid" inithessphere ofzinternationalrelations is one expression of it. In general, aid is not conceived as a relationship between two sovereign, independent countries, as a dignified relationship between one rich and one poor, as a duty of solidarity. Aid is conceived as charity, as a weapon used by imperialism to ensure that the exploited knows his proper place. Aid is not co- operation between countries at different stages of development. Very often it is a form of blackmail, a way to maintain and accentuate dependency. ‘This is a deci- sive aspect of the ideology of underdevelopment. It was created by colonialism under tthei pretext of "civilizing the’ natives" 79 Today i trisicontinvediin® the" neo— colonial perspective, to which it gave decisive support. The principle of "civil- izing the natives" is replaced today by the more philanthropic principle of "help- ing the incapable". The quality of the content has not changed.
11.28 The People's Republic of Mozambique met a genuine and correct perspective in the socialist countries, irrespective of the level of development. We have been able to establish a relationship of equality with the other socialist coun- tries: relations between one sovereign state and another, relations between one free people and another. This example reinforced our certainty that a fair rela- tion is possible between countries with different levels of economic growth.
11.29 The importance of fighting against this ideology of underdevelopment was shown to be fundamental throughout our experience. In the same way as the people were the agents of their own political liberation, only the people can be the agents of their own economic and cultural liberation. The offensive we are launch- ing for this purpose is for us the opening up of a new front, a declaration of war on mental colonization and on passivity. Today in our country, systematic action is taking place to dignify labour, to raise educational standards and to propose aims for popular education. Today a Mozambican learns to place himself in the world simply as a person.
11.30 Mr President, the agenda of this Conference anticipates debate on important subjects on which we will be called to take decisions that will contribute towards the progress of our countries and peoples. The question of illiteracy makes edu- cation one of the most important subjects of this session. In our view, education has to make a complete man in the universal sense. Priority, then, must be given to political, ideological and scientific education. Such an education should be based on a scientific foundation, be practical, and introduce the young to produc- tion, making use of basic tools. We are educating our youth to be aware that they are citizens of a nation. We are educating the young people of our country to love their motherland, to be aware of their class identity and to have a high interna- tionalist consciousness. Such a socialist concept of education is reflected in its Organization and curricula. Our option is to build a system of education that serves the people's interest as an instrument of the peasants' and workers' alliance.    We want to build a system of education that will promote the political, scientific, technical and cultural knowledge of the working class.
11.31 Efforts are being made in adult education to fight energetically and syste- matically against illiteracy and ignorance. The consolidation of our revolutionary conquests and the victory of socialism, however, demand that the working class be not only capable of reading, writing and counting. Our conception of adult educa- tion is a global one. We mobilize adults continuously to elevate their own capa- cities in keeping with the needs of building the new society, so that they may be able to transform nature and at the same time effect changes in social relations. Within the national system of education being implemented, our adult education pro- grammes are not merely related to the literacy campaign but are also designed to lead adults towards professional training, high school and the university. To turn the whole country into a school where everybody learns and everybody teaches is our target.
11.32 In the People's Republic of Mozambique, the development of education is intimately linked to the concrete needs of national social and economic develop- ment. Education closely follows on the experiences of the new society we are building, because we believe that it is social practice which should forge the conscience and not the conscience which should determine social practice. Thus, we have decided to apply the principle of linking school and work, that is study and production. Our objective is mainly political: to provide the conditions for the emergence of a new mentality, to allow the students to identify themselves with the importance of national reconstruction, with the workers and peasants, with their aspirations, their interests and their struggle for total freedom. Our efforts are therefore concentrated on making our schools productive institutions and transforming our productive centres into places where people can study and learn. A school which is not closely linked to the community cannot change society, nor can the community have an intimate influence on the school. By forging this link between school and community, between school and production, we assure the permanent relation between theory and practice, between the mind and the hand, which is one of the basic principles of our education policy.
11.33 The liberation of man is also closely linked to economic independence. And liberation also means equality between nations. But, we have found that the pre- sent mechanisms for international economic relations have only created the condi- tions for the prosperity of the developed countries.
11.34 Such instruments as the Declaration and Programme of Action for the estab- lishment of a new international economic order and the United Nations Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States reflect the need to destroy the international economic system based on inequality, domination and dependency. In its place a new order must emerge, based on equality, respect for sovereignty and common inter- ests, based on true co-operation between states, irrespective of their economic and social systems.
11.35 The lack of progress that we have noted in the negotiations held in recent years for the purpose of applying the Declaration and Programme of Action to set up a new international economic order should, however, be a cause for concern to all of us. It is urgent and imperative that the international community should examine, deeply and carefully, the long list of failures that, in daily practice, almost coincide with the innumerable resolutions approved.
11.36 The promotion of the development of peoples, commercial relations between states, assistance and co-operation between countries at different levels of devel- opment, are problems for which, with very rare exceptions, no solutions have been found.
11.37 The question of the transfer of technology is one of the problems signifi- cantly marking our era. The imperialist powers are daily developing their tech- nological capacity through growing accumulation from the exploitation of the poor countries. The mechanisms of power are moving to more and more sophisticated levels, thus systematically superseding the technology that, in one way or another, our countries have gradually acquired. This constant frustration has created fers tile grounds for some to accept the principle of selected technology. The tech- nology that is developed at the cost of the wealth pillaged from our countries is often developed with the help of scientists and technicians stolen from our coun- tries. It is used to reduce our power and to increase the efficiency of the exploitation of which we are the victims. It is urgent and imperative to find new ways to confront this problem. The exploitation of our peoples must be stopped. Our peoples have the right to happiness, prosperity and well-being. The enjoyment of these demands a free culture, a mature consciousness and an independent economy.
11.38 For the People's Republic of Mozambique, the advance of human rights demands, above all else, the elimination of hunger, lack of clothes, illiteracy - that is,    of the poverty from which the overwhelming majority of mankind suffer. Human rights 14 cannot be divorced from the struggle against underdevelopment. With underdevelop- ment, it is not possible to guarantee to people their most basic rights, such as food, clothing, education and housing. To speak of human rights is to consider the need for our profound engagement to eliminate every type of colonialism, neo- colonialism, racism, apartheid and Zionism, and all forms of exploitation and dis- crimination against human beings.
11:39 Scientific, "technical and'cultural ‘Co-operation is’ decisive forthe’ progress of our countries and peoples. There is only one real type of co-operation: that which is based on equality, on reciprocal benefits and on respect for independence.
11.40 The struggle to bring about a new international information order is an integral part of the fight for a new international economic order. The relations of dependency that are found in the information field are a reflection of the situation of dependency and underdevelopment created by colonialism and maintained by imperialism in our countries. The technological advances in the field of infor- mation and communication have made our countries more vulnerable to a one-way flow of information, since the technical means are centralized and used to ensure the continuity of this fundamental aspect of imperialist domination. Thus the most advanced means of mass communication are used as vehicles for the systematic dis- tortion of the reality of our countries and the maintenance of the very ideology of underdevelopment.
11.41 In consequence of the centralization of the means of social communication, the reality of our countries is filtered by the point of view, and broadcast in the language, of the huge international press agencies and the transnational film and television corporations. The principle that information should promote mutual understanding between peoples is, in practice, inverted. In fact, the centraliza- tion of the means of communication has promoted the distortion of the reality by the struggle, the aims and the culture of our peoples.
11.42 In the debate on this world problem, Unesco has played a fundamental role. Unesco has encouraged this debate. It has been the leading forum where the strug- gle of the developing countries for a new international information order has found expression. The resolutions passed at different meetings constitute a programme of action whose implementation is decisive for the solution of the problems we face. We must proceed from the phase of preparation of programmes of action to the phase of their realistic implementation by practical measures.
11.43 A great number of such practical measures are included in the information policies of our countries. Most of the developing countries, and many of the developed ones, are in a position to implement them immediately. For that purpose, Mr President, we have to look for the mechanisms that will make it possible for us to unite and co-ordinate our common objectives and our political, human and techni- cal resources.
11.44 Isolated and divided, we are weak. Together, united, we will be strong.
11.45 It is not enough to stress that the concept of the free flow of information, as it is generally presented, is a demagogic concept designed to consolidate imperi- alistic domination. It is not sufficient to protest against the technological im- balance that increases the gap between the developing nations and the highly devel- oped countries. It is not enough to repeat that there is a permanent ideological manipulation of the more elementary realities of the struggle of our countries, and of our peoples.
11.46 The new international information order cannot continue to be a mere theore- tical concept without corresponding in practice to our concerted decisions and action.
11.47 At this twenty-first session of the General Conference, the objectives and the principles of the new international information order must be taken as a fundamental reference in the preparation of Unesco's second Medium-Term Plan. We must, as a matter of urgency, establish effective forms of co-operation and co- ordinate our efforts in the spheres of the training of professionals, the owner- ship and control of technologies and the improvement of our national and regional information and mass communication systems.
11.48 The Fourth Meeting of the Intergovernmental Co-ordinating Council for Information of Non-Aligned Countries held last June in Baghdad, has shown us some realistic and concrete courses of action to achieve those targets.
11.49 Mr President, the struggle against underdevelopment is a task of the inter- national community. All the victories that can be achieved in the sphere of the progress of science, education, culture, information, and that can lead to wel- fare, happiness and freedom, will necessarily be limited unless we face, directly,
733    the fundamental problems of humanity. It is a principle accepted worldwide that equality among unequals is unjust. The successes we may be able to achieve within our Organization will be mere palliatives as long as inequality among the nations persists.
11.50 Methodical attempts are being made to refer the fundamental problems to the strictly political forum of the international community (namely the United Nations). We can understand the reasons for such attempts. But we do not accept that this can be used to cover up discussions on the items of our agenda that deal with inequality, injustice and exploitation.
11.51 Although the results of our work will affect every woman, man and child on our planet, they will do so to a greater extent in the case of the nations suffer- ing from poverty, illiteracy, superstition and dependence. The People's Republic of Mozambique firmly believes that effective progress can be made in our debates if, with sincerity and coherence, we commit ourselves to promoting peace and dis- armament in the world and to the eradication of exploitation, racism, apartheid, ethnocentrism, all forms of aggression, occupation, domination and interference. aduta continua! >“Thank you,
125 The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Mozambican delegation, and I now give the floor to Mr S. Evteev, Assistant Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP).
(13.1) Mr EVTEEV (United Nations Environment Programme) (Translation from the Russian): Mr Chairman, distinguished delegates. It gives me great pleasure, on behalf of the Executive Director of UNEP, Dr Mostafa Tolba, and on my own behalf, to address you here today in this wonderful city of Belgrade. As you know, even before the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment was held in Stockholm in 1972, after which the UNEP, the United Nations Environment Programme, was drawn up, Unesco's programme included a wide range of questions which even then habitually related to the environment. An accurate reflection of Unesco's activities concerning environmental problems can be found in the Medium-Term Plan for 1977-1982, which contains a whole chapter devoted to the problem of "Man and his Environment". The increased attention devoted by Unesco to this problem is also confirmed by the fact that the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983 provides that the resources allocated to this activity shall rise from 21 to 26 per cent.
(13.2) The great attention paid by Unesco to problems of the environment may largely be explained by the fact that ever since UNEP was established, the links between it and Unesco have constantly developed and grown stronger. Those links have taken the shape of
735   reciprocal contacts, participation in conferences, and implementation of joint projects in a number of areas of Unesco's programme. Last year a Memorandum of understanding was signed between our two organizations defining more closely the basis for co-operation between them. I will try not to weary you with figures, but would still like to cite a few to show the scale of our co-operation. Since UNEP was established, it has concluded
123 projects with Unesco, which is more than one-fifth of the total number of projects it has concluded with other organizations of the United Nations system. At the 6020: 019-79 total expenditure on joint Unesco-UNEP projects from the UNEP Fund stood at approximately $12,500,000. On average, Unesco is responsible for at least one in every ten of UNEP- assisted projects. And of course, the important thing is not just the number of projects and the amount spent on them, although that too is very important and indicative. What is very important is that by our co-operation, we have been able to strengthen important activities such as those that already exist in Unesco's "Man and the Biosphere" programme, in the fields of oceanography, microbiology, training and other programmes. We have also managed to mount wide-ranging action in areas such as environmental education which are comparatively new, but still extremely important. Another completely new activity of key importance is protection of the lithosphere. To the best of my knowledge, not one organi- zation of the United Nations system has yet taken up this issue seriously. We recently signed a project with Unesco, valued at some $1,500,000, to enable a start to be made on developing this activity. And undoubtedly, this is only the first step which we hope will lead to the development of an extensive programme. Co-operation between UNEP and Unesco is also developing successfully in the regional oceans programme. I feel, therefore, that we have every reason to be satisfied with what has been achieved and can look ahead with confidence.
(13.3) I would like to dwell very briefly on one topic which has repeatedly been raised at sessions of the Governing Council of UNEP. As you know, when the UNEP Fund was estab- lished, it was planned that it would become a kind of catalyst for new activities in the United Nations system, and to some extent outside it. At the same time, it was considered that from a certain point onwards, the further development of those activities would be financed from other sources. The reason is not that we consider any activities to be out- dated, or because nothing positive has been achieved in the execution of the projects. Quite the contrary. It is precisely consideration of the successes that have been achieved that leads us to try and obtain a possibly even higher level of financing for those activities. Nor do we intend to reduce the overall level of our co-operation. The sole purpose of this move is to preserve for UNEP's Fund its potential for discharging its catalytit functions:
(13.4) An important item on the agenda of this session of Unesco's General Conference is the matter of the Organization's Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989. Medium-term planning has an enormous importance for the correct direction of the Organization's long-term activities. At the recommendation of the UNEP Governing Council, the United Nations General Assembly has adopted a decision concerning the establishment of a medium-term environment programme for the United Nations system, which will cover the selfsame period 1984-1989. At present, UNEP is actively engaged in drawing up that programme in the framework of the United Nations system, and it will be adopted by the tenth session of the UNEP Governing Council in 1982, or ten years after the Stockholm Conference.
(13.5) Next May the ninth session of the UNEP Governing Council is to approve the main lines of activity of the various parts of the programme. They are being worked out in such a way as to make it clear what it is planned to do, why, over what period of time, and what it is planned to accomplish. I would like to emphasize that this medium-term programme is being prepared for the whole United Nations system including the Specialized Agencies. Of course, Unesco's planned activities for that period should be duly reflected init.
(13.6) Apart from the medium-term programme, the tenth session of the UNEP Governing Coun- cil is to discuss and adopt what is known as the long-term programme. In this document, it is intended to reflect environmental problems confronting mankind as a whole, the solution of which goes far beyond the framework of the United Nations system. The final timespan of that programme has not as yet been settled but a period lasting until approximately the end of this century is being considered.
(13.7) Various organizations of the United Nations system have already prepared forecasts and outlines for the period to the year 2000 relating to agriculture, industry, public health services and other activities. Such forecasts are also to be found in the deci- sions of a number of United Nations conferences convened to discuss various problems. It is very obvious that the implementation of these programmes, which are scheduled to last until the year 2000, will exert an enormous influence on the environment. It is for all mankind and all the organizations of the United Nations system to foresee that influence and to reduce as far as possible any unfavourable ecological consequences.
(13.8) Mr Chairman, in my address I have naturally been able to dwell only very briefly on matters of the co-operation between UNEP and Unesco. But I feel that even that brief outline will give some idea of how varied and productive that co-operation is. Its founda- tion is the profound concern of both organizations over the state of the environment, and their desire to contribute to the solution of that problem.
(13.9) In less than two years' time, the tenth session of the UNEP Governing Council will be held. It may well be a special session, and the United Nations General Assembly is now discussing that matter. In addition to other documents, we are preparing for the tenth ses- sion of the Council a report on the state of the environment ten years after the Stockholm Conference. We wish to examine and to report to the Governing Council, using the latest information, on current trends in the alteration of the environment, and on what has been achieved over the past ten years by the efforts of the countries and organizations of the United Nations system, and the intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations. Have    those efforts led to an improvement in the state of the environment, and what should the overall action programme be to improve the environment in which present and future genera- tions are to live? I am confident that co-operation between UNEP and Unesco will be duly reflected in that programme.
(13.10) Permit me to wish you success in the proceedings of this session of the General Conference of Unesco, which is faced with complex but extremely important tasks. Thank you for your attention.
14. The PRESIDENT: I thank the Assistant Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Programme, and I give the floor to Mr Eliezer Shmueli, Director-General, Ministry of Education and Culture of Israel, and head of the Israeli delegation.
5% 15M SHMUEL (Israel) = Mr President, distinguished members of the General Committee, fellow dele- gates from the world community, colleagues. I am a teacher by profession and an educator by my very nature. This is why I should like to focus my presentation today mainly on educational problems. I do believe that Unesco should devote its very precious time principally to the three main subjects that Unesco deals with, namely education, science and culture. I am afraid that some political statements made here today polluted the very clear spring of educational discussions in Unesco. I would rather focus, as I said, my presentation on the educational problems that my country is facing, believing that Israel, on its thirty-second anniversary, can serve as a model for countries of its size and for societies that encounter the same educational problems.
15.2 Thirty-two years ago when the State of Israel was established, the first thing the state did when Israel was still bleeding from its war of independence was to enact its new law on education. The law made education for all citizens - Jews and Arabs - free and compulsory from the age of five to the age of fifteen. This law brought into our educational system hundreds and thousands of pupils who never in the past had a chance to obtain good education. Recently we extended the scope of this law and today it is applicable to the five- to sixteen-year old age-group, giving every child in the country - Jew or Arab - free education. I represent a small country, struggling for its very survival, a country that is squeezing every drop out of its limited resources to improve its educational sys- tem, to achieve a state of excellence in science and scholarship.
15.3 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the last year, enrolment figures in our educational system stood at 1.25 million out of a population of 3.5 million citizens, which means that over one-third of our community is enrolled at the+dif- ferent levels of edúcation. Right now we have two and a half times as many students in our educational system as we had citizens in Israel when the state was established. The ratio of school attendance of three- and four-year old Jews and Arabs has reached
95 per cent, a unique percentage of our community. Attendance at secondary schools results in 65 per cent graduating from our secondary, academic, vocational and nauti- cal schools. I can thus define our country as a learning society. I would say, after having read the presentation made by the Director-General, that on the basis of our own experience we would like to react positively to his suggestions.
15.4 Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the crucial problem that the world com- munity is facing today on account of the process of democratization of our educa- tional system is the problem of dealing with pupils who would never in the past have had the chance to learn. The former teacher used to cater mainly for tradi- tional students. We are about to face, in the eighties, a problem of heterogeneous classes in which pupils from different social backgrounds will be learning together. We shall thus have to prepare special curricula and special textbooks, and to re- train and re-educate our educators. Unesco as well as our respective countries can pour millions of dollars into our educational system, but we shall fail if we do not give the utmost attention to the needs of the new types Of pupils, those who unfortunately, because of the lack of sufficient educational opportunities, would not have had access to it in the past.
15.5 There is a tendency in the world to label pupils that teachers fail to teach as" failures. 1I.Q. tests that label pupils as slow learners, as disadvantaged, created biased teachers, biased against the pupils. Research conducted in the United States of America, under the title "Pygmalion in the classroom" refers to claims that pupils are treated as "disadvantaged" for subjective reasons, because the teachers see them as such. I challenge Unesco and I challenge the General Conference to look for a new, internationally valid test by means of which we can determine the ability of pupils.
15.6 Mr President, in view of the fact that thousands of refugees came to our country from the different Middle-Eastern countries in the early 1950s, many of them from developing countries and many of them children of illiterate parents, we devoted our efforts mainly to the creation of a system of boarding schools
737    capable of accepting large numbers of pupils. I am proud to state that in spite of certain misunderstandings with psychologists and sociologists all over the world, who claimed that we should not "uproot" ‘such children from their families, we brought them into boarding school, we established children's villages and we offered them the best education that the country has to provide. By changing their environment, we motivated these young people to perform to the best of their abil- ity. The realization of their potential was our ambition. Research conducted after fifteen years has shown that we indeed succeeded in promoting the standards of learning and in bringing students who - as children - had been called disadvan- taged into our universities, into the forefront of scientific work.
15.7 Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with those speakers who have mentioned the family as a very important factor in the education of our children. I believe, moreover, that the community per se should be involved in the process of education. We have brought into our educational system state-aided university students who act as teaching auxiliaries and assist the regular teachers. We believe that students who are receiving government assistance should contribute something to their com- munities. Furthermore, thousands of students are working voluntarily, giving addi- tional lessons to pupils who need special help. In addition, we have brought par- ents into our school system; we have decided that schools should be built in the community and that the community should be free to be "built into" our schools. The regular, traditional school will not be able to face the problems of the eighties; if it does not reflect.the joint and mutual efforts of the whole community.
15.8 TI should like to refer to another programme to which the State of Israel has been devoting considerable attention, and a great deal of money, and which may be a source of interest and inspiration to other countries. We concur with the modern psychologists' claim that the period from birth to the age of four is a very impor- tant and formative one. This is why we decided to use educational television to provide parents with the right instruction so that they can educate their own children during the first three years. We believe that we can enrich the vocabu- lary of children in this age-group. We believe that we can enrich their concepts and prepare them better for entry into pre-kindergarten, kindergarten and primary school. Through the programme to which I refer, parents were supplied with pic- tures, data and information concerning the main features of the psychology of the very young child. In this way, under the supervision of our Ministry of Education, illiterate parents have been brought into the circle of education, and are acting as educators of their own children.
15.9 Mr President, we believe in vocational education. For our psople,itssintre- duction radically changed their way of life. The countrywide tendency in the early fifties to favour academic schools has been changed and today approximately 65 per cent of our students are receiving very sophisticated modern vocational and profes- sional education, the latter being linked with our advanced industries. Students go into industry once a week, while engineers from the different industries are invited as a part of their jobs to come and teach in our vocational schools. This is the point where I would like to differ with certain modern educators, and define a very delicate problem which has so far, I believe, escaped their attention. There was in the past, and I believe there still exists a tendency to define stu- dents as either "academic" or "vocational". Those who failed to be accepted into regular academic schools were diverted into vocational schools. But it so happens, ladies and gentlemen, that among their number, there were students with no aptitude for vocational education and the fact of being placed in such establishments created a feeling of failure. We thus looked for some different form of education. In our very unique children's villages, we gave children who failed to pass either the academic or the vocational examinations the opportunity of choosing their own way of running the village itself. The result is that we are now teaching or educating in a very modern, progressive and different way students whom the regular tradi- tional system had failed to educate.
15.10 Dear colleagues, as I said I am here to talk about education and I would like to invite any Member State, through Unesco or otherwise, to come and see our educational system. Israel has indeed become a centre of science and education. Thousands of educators and scientists are coming to our seven universities, study- ing in the Weizmann Institute solar energy and the different sciences related to agriculture. We hope that Israel, in spite of its size and in spite of its mis- takes, will contribute as a model to the world community; and Israel seeks to learn from each of the members of the world community.
15.11 Mr President, I do not wish to conclude my presentation without saying a few words to our hosts, to our Director-General. There is an old saying in Hebrew, which goes as follows: "In love you build worlds, in hatred you destroy them". I would like to urge our Director-General to imbue all of us with love and understand- ing; I would like humbly to thank our President; and I would like, finally, {to thank our Yugoslavian hosts for welcoming us on this wonderful occasion. Thank you very much:
16... The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Israeli delegation and I give the floor to Mr Jozef Czesak, President of the Polish National Commission for Unesco and head of the Polish delegation.
17.1 M. CZESAK (Pologne) .- Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, permettez-moi au nom de la déléga- tion polonaise de vous présenter, Monsieur le Président, mes félicitations les plus cordiales à l'occasion de votre élection à la présidence de la vingt et unième session de notre Conférence. Il nous est particulièrement agréable que ces importants débats soient présidés par un représentant éminent de la Yougoslavie - pays ami de la Pologne.
17.2 Permettez-moi aussi de remercier le Président du Conseil exécutif pour l'ef- ficacité avec laquelle il a assumé la présidence de cet organe. J'adresse aussi des paroles de reconnaissance au Directeur général de l'Unesco et à ses collabora- teurs pour le soin qu'ils ont apporté à l'exécution du programme en cours et à la préparation d'un projet plus simplifié et plus concis de Programme et de budget pour 1981-1983. Je saisis également cette occasion pour féliciter chaleureusement le Directeur général de sa réélection, au nom de la Pologne, où on le connaît, l'admire et le respecte.
17.3 La Pologne salue également les Etats nouvellement admis au sein de notre Organisation et exprime sa conviction qu'ils contribueront au renforcement de la paix, de la coopération et de la compréhension entre les peuples.
17.4 Monsieur le Président, depuis la dernière session de la Conférence générale, d'importants changements sont intervenus dans la situation internationale. Cette situation est complexe et se caractérise par la recrudescence de l'activité des forces hostiles à la détente visant à intensifier la course aux armements et la tension internationale, et à freiner la coopération internationale dont le monde a tant besoin pour résoudre les problèmes politiques, sociaux et économiques cruciaux.
17.5 Nous sommes également conscients du fait que les séquelles du régime colonia- liste et les formes néo-coloniales d'oppression et d'exploitation, sans compter l'apartheid et les différents aspects du racisme, constituent elles aussi une source permanente de conflits à l'échelle régionale et mondiale et s'opposent à la satisfaction des aspirations légitimes des pays en voie de développement, à leur pleine émancipation politique et à l'accélération du progrès social et économique.
17.6 Cette situation ne manque pas de nous inquiéter car nous sommes, je le crois, tous conscients que notre Organisation ne peut mener à bien la tâche qui est la sienne dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science, de la culture et de l'information que si la paix règne et si la coopération en toute égalité entre les peuples se développe.
17.7 C'est pourquoi l'Unesco devrait, selon nous, participer plus activement en- core à la lutte pour la paix et le désarmement, à l'action commune pour résoudre les grands problèmes urgents d'aujourd'hui.
17.8 Les résolutions adoptées par la Conférence générale à sa vingtième session sur la contribution de l'Unesco à la paix et ses tâches en ce qui concerne la pro- motion des droits de l'homme et l'élimination du colonialisme et du racisme, sur le rôle de l'Organisation dans la création d'une opinion publique favorable à l'arrêt de la course aux armements et sur la coopération culturelle et scienti- fique sur la base de l'égalité et de l'intérêt mutuel en tant que facteur impor- tant du renforcement de la paix, ont donné, selon nous, une nouvelle impulsion à l'activité de notre Organisation.
17.9 La Pologne est particulièrement soucieuse de voir ces tâches menées à bien.
17.10 Monsieur le Président, le trait fondamental de la politique de mon pays était et reste son caractère strictement ‘pacifique.
17.11 La Pologne populaire s'est engagée dans toutes les entreprises favorables à la consolidation des fondements d'une coexistence pacifique de tous les peuples. Elle n'a pas ménagé et ne ménagera pas ses efforts afin d'apporter sa contribution - par des initiatives constructives - au renforcement de la sécurité européenne et d'une large coopération entre les pays de tous les continents. Je rappelerai que c'est sur sa proposition que l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies a adopté, en
1978, à sa trente-troisième session, sa Déclaration sur la préparation des socié- tés à vivre dans la paix. Je voudrais aussi me féliciter de ce que figurent dans le Projet de programme pour 1981-1983 des activités liées à cette Déclaration ins- pirée par la conviction que chaque peuple et chaque être humain ont le droit ina- liénable de vivre dans la paix, ce qui répond pleinement à la mission de l'Unesco et aux principes énoncés dans son Acte constitutif.
17.12 C'est donc avec une grande satisfaction que nous notons que l'Unesco sug- gère d'organiser en 1982 une Conférence intergouvernementale sur l'éducation au service de la paix, de la sécurité et du désarmement dont l'objectif sera de pro- céder à l'examen des activités entreprises pour mettre en oeuvre la Recommandation de 1974 sur l'éducation pour la compréhension, la coopération et la paix interna- tionales et l'éducation relative aux droits de l'homme et aux libertés fondamentales.
17.13 Mesdames, Messieurs, inspirée par la conviction que la préparation pour la paix constitue un élément spécifique important de l'éducation, la Pologne présen- tera au cours de cette session un projet de résolution concernant "la contribution de l'Unesco à la préparation des sociétés à vivre dans la paix".
17.14 Ce projet, qui tient compte de la contribution riche et novatrice de l'Unesco dans le domaine de la diffusion des idées de paix et dans la mise en place d'une éducation à cet effet, propose diverses mesures pratiques visant à permettre à notre Organisation d'intensifier son action dans ce sens grâce en par- ticulier à l'exécution d'un programme concret de mise en oeuvre des dispositions de la Déclaration de l'ONU sur la préparation des sociétés à vivre dans la paix. La mise en application de ce programme contribuera également à accroître le rôle que joue l'Unesco en faveur de la paix, du désarmement, de la sécurité internatio- nale, du respect des droits de l'homme et de la compréhension mutuelle. C'est pour- quoi ce projet de résolution devrait, à mon avis, recueillir l'appui de tous les Etats membres de l'Unesco.
17.15 Monsieur le Président, au plan international, la Pologne tend tous ses ef- forts vers l'édification d'une structure efficace de paix et de coopération entre les peuples. La délégation polonaise se déclare pleinement solidaire de toutes les initiatives, s'inspirant de ces principes, prises au sein de l'Unesco. Je pense notamment aux projets de résolution présentés par la délégation de l'URSS sur la contribution de l'Unesco à la solution des problèmes mondiaux de l'humanité, sur la préservation et à l'affermissement de la détente, sur la création d'une opinion publique favorable au désarmement.
17.16 Qu'il me soit permis de rappeler ici, Monsieur le Président, un fait bien connu, à savoir qu'un des principaux moyens de liaison entre les peuples de pays et de continents différents - moyens dont le rôle se développe constamment - est l'information.
17.17 Notre siècle a été appelé à juste titre le siècle de la révolution de l'information. On ne peut oublier cependant que l'information, aujourd'hui, est encore un instrument de domination et de confrontation entre les forces de progrès et les forces de stagnation. La conclusion du rapport de la Commission MacBride montre sans équivoque l'immensité des disparités et des obstacles qui s'opposent a la coopération internationale dans ce domaine.
17.18 C'est la raison pour laquelle nous saluons avec satisfaction les initia- tives concrètement prises par l'Unesco pour accélérer le processus d'élaboration de principes permettant une circulation plus juste de l'information, ainsi qu'une définition du rôle de celle-ci dans les rapports internationaux contemporains.
17.19 Nous considérons que l'adoption à l'unanimité par la Conférence générale, à sa vingtième session, de la Déclaration sur les principes fondamentaux concernant la contribution des organes d'information au renforcement de la paix et de la com- préhension internationale, à la promotion des droits de l'homme et à la lutte contre le racisme, l'apartheid et l'incitation à la guerre, ainsi que les recomman- dations constructives adoptées par la Conférence intergouvernementale de coopéra- tion sur les activités, besoins et programmes relatifs au développement des commu- nications tenue à Paris, créent un cadre favorable à la coopération des Etats membres de l'Unesco en faveur du développement de l'information.
17.20 C'est aussi avec satisfaction que nous accueillons l'initiative prise par la délégation de l'URSS de nous présenter un projet de résolution relatif à la mise en oeuvre des dispositions de la Déclaration que je viens d'évoquer.
17.21 La Pologne soutient l'action de l'Unesco en faveur d'une circulation inter- nationale plus équilibrée d'une information plus objective qui permettrait réelle- ment de développer la coopération et les rapports d'amitié entre les peuples.
17.22 Elle est aussi d'avis que le rôle pilote de l'Unesco dans ce domaine de- vrait être renforcé.
17.23 Monsieur le Président, nous voudrions saisir cette occasion pour exprimer notre opinion sur la coopération européenne. La Pologne a approuvé les recommanda- tions contenues dans l'Acte final d'Helsinki et les a constamment appliquées, no- tamment dans les domaines qui relèvent de la compétence de l'Unesco. On ne peut pas ne pas faire observer ici que si notre Organisation a apporté une contribution
740    importante au renforcement de la coopération européenne, le champ de celle-ci au sein de l'Unesco rétrécit d'année en année. Il faut donc donner une nouvelle impul- sion à cette coopération et la délégation polonaise soutiendra toutes les initia- tives allant dans ce sens. Nous sommes toujours d'avis qu'il convient de renforcer le personnel du Bureau de coopération scientifique pour l'Europe et de créer auprès de ce Bureau un Conseil consultatif. Nous nourrissons l'espoir que la ren- contre de Madrid ouvrira également de nouvelles perspectives de coopération euro- péenne dans les domaines de compétence de l'Unesco. Pour’ nous, l'approfondissement de cette coopération ne peut aller à l'encontre des intérêts et des besoins des autres continents ; il ne peut qu'y répondre.
17.24 Nous voudrions exprimer notre reconnaissance au Directeur général pour les efforts que déploie l'Unesco en vue de l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international, tout en reconnaissant qu'il s'agit d'un processus complexe et à long terme. Nous pensons avec lui que l'établissement de cet ordre dépend dans une large mesure du renforcement de la paix, de l'arrêt de la course aux armements, du respect de la souveraineté et de l'indépendance des Etats ainsi que de l'élimina- tion de toutes les formes de discrimination.
17.25 (Comme on le sait, Monsieur le Président, les orientations du programme pour
1981-1983 sont déterminées, quant aux principaux problèmes contemporains, par le Plan à moyen terme. Notre débat sur ce sujet peut avoir une importance non négli- geable pour les travaux préparatoires de l'élaboration du deuxième Plan à moyen terme. Ces travaux et les conditions dans lesquelles la préparation du deuxième Plan aura lieu sont complexes. A notre avis, ce n'est qu'une fois tirées les con- clusions de l'exécution partielle du premier Plan, en fonction du débat intervenu à cette session de notre Conférence générale, et une fois terminées les consulta- tions avec les Etats membres ainsi qu'avec les commissions nationales pour l'Unesco et les organisations non gouvernementales, qu'une conception de l'orienta- tion générale du deuxième Plan à moyen terme pourra se dessiner.
17.26 Il convient de souligner, Monsieur le Président, l'accroissement du rôle des sciences sociales dans le Projet de programme et de budget. Il nous semble cependant indispensable de recourir encore davantage aux sciences sociales pour résoudre les principaux problèmes du monde contemporain. Nous sommes convaincus que les décisions du Congrès mondial sur l'éducation pour le désarmement incite- ront à de nouvelles réflexions sur ce programme. Nous voudrions attirer votre attention sur le fait que nous attachons une grande importance a la proposition tendant à organiser une réunion d'experts sur le rôle des scientifiques dans la course aux armements et la contribution qu'ils peuvent apporter au désarmement.
17.27 L'action de l'Organisation dans le domaine des droits de l'homme mérite de grands éloges. Ce sujet devrait être traité par l'Unesco d'une façon globale et comprendre tous les droits de l'homme : les droits économiques et sociaux, le droit à l'éducation, à la science et à la culture ainsi que le droit de vivre en paix. Le projet de programme indique à juste titre les rapports qui existent entre les droits de l'homme et la paix, entre le désarmement et le droit international. La coopération internationale en cette matière est donc indispensable, en particu- lier là où la violation massive des droits de l'homme résulte de la politique d'apartheid, du colonialisme et du racisme. Porter atteinte à ces droits, c'est menacer la paix. Il est de notre devoir de suivre attentivement les progrès de la mise en oeuvre de la Déclaration sur la race et les préjugés raciaux adoptée à la vingtième session de la Conférence générale.
17.28 Nous voudrions souligner avec satisfaction le fait que le programme d'éduca- tion met l'accent sur les liens étroits qui existent entre l'activité de l'Unesco dans ce domaine et les grands problèmes du monde contemporain. A cet égard, le renforcement du Système des écoles associées sur le plan national, régional et international mérite d'être soutenu. La Pologne est disposée a partager l'expé- rience qu'elle a acquise dans ce domaine.
17.29 Nous soutenons les tendances visant à approfondir la démocratisation de l'éducation et à intensifier la lutte contre l'analphabétisme, qui constitue un important obstacle au développement. Toutefois, les progrès rapides de la science et de la technologie imposent une réorientation des systèmes d'éducation et le renforcement des activités de l'Unesco concernant la formation scientifique et technologique générale ainsi que l'enseignement technique et professionnel.
17.30 Nous accueillons très favorablement le fait que l'accent est mis sur la science et la technologie ainsi que sur leur application au développement, ce qui est particulièrement manifeste dans le secteur des sciences exactes et naturelles.
17.31 Toutefois, s'agissant des huit projets majeurs régionaux dont le but est d'appliquer la science et la technologie au développement économique et social et d'aider les Etats membres à développer leur potentiel scientifique et technique,
11 convient selon nous d'associer ces projets aux grands programmes internationaux de recherche scientifique. La Pologne reste désireuse de participer à la réalisation
741    des projets du Programme sur l'homme et la biosphère, aux travaux de la Com- mission océanographique intergouvernementale et aux activités du Programme hydro- logique international. Nous attachons également une grande importance à notre col- laboration avec le Conseil intergouvernemental du Programme général d'information.
17.32 Le développement de ces programmes, l'accent mis sur leur caractère inter- disciplinaire et les activités proposées au titre des objectifs 4.4 - Science et société, 4.2 - Politiques de la science et de la technologie et 4.3 - Recherche et formation scientifiques et technologiques - contribuent selon nous aux échanges d'expériences et à la détermination des voies de la coopération régionale et inter- nationale.
17.33 Nous partageons l'avis du Directeur général selon lequel les résolutions de la Conférence de Vienne ont confirmé le bien-fondé du renforcement du rôle de l'Unesco dans le domaine de la science et de la technologie.
17.34 En ce qui concerne les activités dans le domaine de la culture, les prin- cipes qui inspirent le programme sont en général conformes aux recommandations formulées par la Conférence générale à sa vingtième session. Le respect de l'iden- tité culturelle, la dimension culturelle du développement et l'aspiration à une meilleure compréhension mutuelle ainsi que la protection et la mise en valeur du patrimoine culturel et naturel constituent les éléments principaux de ce pro- gramme. Je voudrais rappeler ici que les peuples peuvent mieux se comprendre au fur et à mesure qu'ils se connaissent mieux et nourrissent davantage de respect pour les autres cultures. C'est dans ce sens que nous concevons les études sur les cultures slaves dont nous relevons avec satisfaction que le programme leur accorde une plus grande importance.
17.35 Il est fondamental pour nous de mettre en application la Recommandation concernant la participation et la contribution des masses populaires à la vie cul- turelle. Malheureusement, le programme ne se réfère pas directement à cette re- commandation. Nous voudrions en outre souligner le rôle que le théâtre et le ci- néma devraient jouer dans l'éducation des jeunes et des sociétés dans un esprit de compréhension mutuelle. Ce sujet mérite, selon nous, d'être inclus dans le pro- gramme. Nous sommes persuadés de l'importance de la deuxième Conférence mondiale sur les politiques culturelles de 1982 qui doit dresser le bilan des activités menées par l'Unesco dans le domaine culturel depuis 1970 et formuler des orienta- tions pour l'avenir. Nous souhaitons participer à la préparation de cette Conférence.
17.36 Monsieur le Président, nous soutenons le Directeur général lorsqu'il affirme son souci d'accroître l'efficacité du travail de notre Organisation. Toute- fois, nous sommes inquiets du fait que le budget de l'Unesco augmente démesurément par rapport à la progression du programme d'action de l'Organisation.
17.37 Nous sommes également préoccupés par le fait que la tendance de l'Unesco à faire moins appel a nos spécialistes persiste malgré l'importance croissante de notre activité et de notre participation aux tâches de l'Unesco. Nous considérons que le principe de la répartition géographique devrait être scrupuleusement res- pecté dans le choix des fonctionnaires du Secrétariat.
17.38 En terminant son introduction au Projet de programme et de budget, le Direc- teur général a dressé un tableau critique de la situation internationale actuelle qui se caractérise par des tensions, des conflits, par l'aggravation des dispa- rités économiques et sociales, par les dangers de confrontation et de crise. Il est indéniable que les problèmes auxquels le monde est confronté ne peuvent être traités isolément. Une vision globale devrait précéder les tentatives de solution des différents problèmes du monde contemporain. Dans ce domaine, l'Unesco a un rôle important à jouer. Nous pensons que la nécessité d'assurer à l'échelle mon- diale un développement juste et équilibré de toutes les sociétés, un développement fondé sur la paix, la sécurité, le respect des droits de l'homme, l'identité des peuples et de leurs cultures, n'est jamais encore apparue comme un impératif aussi vital.
17.39 Comme par le passé, la Pologne coopérera activement avec l'Unesco et contri- buera - je vous prie, Monsieur le Président, de prendre acte de cette assurance - à la réalisation du programme qui sera adopté par notre Conférence. Dans notre activité au sein de l'Unesco, nous désirons mettre au premier plan tout ce qui unit et non ce qui divise. La réalisation du programme exige la coopération de tous les Etats. L'expression des divergences, la confrontation des théories et des expériences ne disparaîtront pas. Mais elles doivent s'effectuer de façon paci- fique, alors que la recherche des solutions doit se poursuivre dans un climat de négociation et de dialogue. Merci de votre attention.
18% The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Polish delegation and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Mohammed Najib Es-Sayed Ahmed, Minister of Education of the Syrian Arab Republic and head of the Syrian delegation.
(19.1) Mr ES-SAYED AHMED (Syrian Arab Republic) (Translation from the Arabic): Mr President, members of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, may I begin by extending the profound thanks of the Syrian Arab Republic to the Government and people of Yugoslavia for the friendliness and warmth of the welcome which we have received in this sister nation which is acting as host to the twenty-first session of the Unesco General Confer- ence. This meeting will enable us to become familiar with more of Yugoslavia's achieve- ments in the fields of education, science and culture and in all other areas as well. And through those achievements we shall see the immortal image of Yugoslavia's great President, Marshal Josip Broz Tito, who led Yugoslavia in her battles for liberation and progress, who participated effectively in the creation and strengthening of the organization of non- aligned nations, and who worked with limitless zeal on behalf of world peace, thereby earn- ing the esteem and respect of all the world's peoples.
(19.2) Secondly, I should like to congratulate Mr Ivo Margan, the President of the Confer- ence, for the confidence which the General Conference rightly and deservedly expressed in unanimously deciding that he should hold that important position. We are sure that the President will carry out the duties entrusted to him with the utmost competence and every sincere effort, and that this will help to achieve the positive results which the Member States hope will be achieved by this Conference.
(19.3) Thirdly, I should like to express my esteem for Mr Napoléon LeBlanc, the President of the previous Conference, who displayed great ability and accompanied the debates at the previous session, and at the opening of the present session, with a style of positive participation that was altogether memorable.
(19.4) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Unesco's twenty-first session is being held this year in an international atmosphere characterized by unrest and violence, one which manifests itself, in particular, in the continued exploitation of the weak by the strong, in continued ruthless and unjust aggression against peoples who desire only peace, security and productive work, in continued - indeed, growing - differences between advanced and developing countries, and in shrinking international co-operation with respect to the transfer of technology and scientific development from the advanced nations to those which are still in a development phase. This atmosphere also manifests itself in the vast amounts spent by nations for arms, in contrast to the small amounts they spend on the development of education, culture, human relations and constructive co-operation between states and peoples. There is ample evidence of these facts, and they express a tension    which continues to dominate the world. Accordingly, they are factors which do not help to strengthen the underpinnings of peace, since we cannot imagine the establishment of genuine, stable peace so long as there is colonialism, so long as there is racial discrimination, so long as there is a usurper, an aggressor, who displays contempt for international law and the principles of truth and justice, so long as there are states which openly flout inter- national laws and disregard the resolutions of the United Nations, the Security Council, Unesco, and other international agencies.
(19.5) With your permission, Mr President, I shall offer an example of this kind of con- tempt and this mockery of human values. I mean Israel, which has incessantly defied the United Nations, the Security Council and Unesco and all their resolutions condemning Israel for its efforts to obliterate the Arab character and heritage and every vestige of the original Arab nature of the occupied Arab territories, and to prevent the Arab popu- lace from exercising its rights to education and culture in Arab schools in accordance with Arab curricula and books. Other resolutions have condemned Israel for the criminal activities in which it has engaged and is still engaging with respect to the Arab spiritual and cultural heritage in the city of Jerusalem, and also the savage bombing and destruction to which Israel has subjected the historic city of Tyre, the site of civilization since remote antiquity. The international organizations, including Unesco, have condemned all these activities and called upon Israel to desist completely from them. Nevertheless, Israel has continued with its various forms of aggression, and reached a high point in its defiance of international organizations and world opinion by announcing recently that it was making Arab Jerusalem its capital. In so doing, Israel did not merely display con- tempt for the most elementary recognized principles Of Fjustice; Vit'also, in our opinion, deliberately threatened world peace. We feel that the only effective response to such provocations as these is to expel Israel from all international organizations and for international family to impose all appropriate sanctions upon Israel, to put a final to its aggression and mockery.
(19.6) Israel's aggression against ti places is one of many other examples 1 tinue to be a serious source of distress all peop that honest peace. That is because there can be 1 p ила лее t is based on right and justice. has become a matter of the utmost $ y f hel p les of the world to co-operate in order to defend th human values and prese > then Mm the aggression which threatens them, and to put a stc to the, terrifying ms > n wl h states spend hundreds of billions of dollars every year, and divert se gi sums to the matters of develop- ment and progress, se o internaticnal economi ler which will respect peoples" rights to a lire © lignity, and abolish = forms © al discrimination and prejudice.
(19.7) Mr President, distinguished delegates. The Syrian Arab Republic states once again that it fully supports Unesco and backs all its projects, which are designed to rve man- kind and advance the human condition. The Syrian Arab Republic will tirelessly strive for the implementation of all the resolutions adopted by this Organization. We sincerely desire to strengthen co-operation between us ana the Directorate of Unesco. We already have many substantial achievements to our credit ‚ this area, which it would take too long to mention in detail. In large measure, thanks for this is due to the guidance of Mr Hafiz al-Asad, President of the Syrian Arab Republic, since and the Organization with constructive, productive support. e provides both ourselves
(19.8) The draft programme outlining the Organization's activities over the next three years meets with our full support, and we hope that Unesco will devote eve more interest and concern to Arab culture and will inform the world of its values, inasmuch as 1t 1s one of the great human cultures, and one which has played a part in the evolution of mankind over the centuries. In point of fact, we should lil to see more interaction between the different human cultures, with respect for the characteristic nature and uniqueness of each of then:
(19.9) We have the highest esteem for the great amount of effort that the Unesco Director" ate has put into the preparation of the draft programme which 1s before us for approval. We consider that this draft document is the fruit of the enormous and unremitting labour which has been put forth, and is still being put forth, by Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, the Organization's Director-General. It is the offsprir of his guidance and his perseverance in following up all the matters undertaken by Unesco in its various fields of competence. We offer Mr M'Bow our esteem, gratitude and affection, emphasizing that his initiatives and his courageous stands have played an important role in defending Unesco's values and principles and in providing all appropriate means for attaining the objectives for the sake of which this Organization was founded. We also offer him, once again, our country's warm congratulations on his re-election to the post of Director-General. We are confident of his exceptional ability to manage this international Organization as it should be managed, and to make its services available to all peoples.
(19.10) Mr President, the world today is greatly in need of | concerted forces of goodwill in order to bring about the peace, 8 to which mankind aspires. We bear a great responsibility in this respect: we work in all other legitimate ways to better the lot of mankind, raise the level at which people live, enhance their abilities, make science and knowledge generally available to them, and we must ensure peace of mind and a life of freedom and dignity for them and their descend- ants after them. In that way, we shall be doing what the peoples of the world expect of us. We hope that in the course of this Conference, we shall attain these goals, as we should like to do. Peace be with you.
20. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Syrian delegation and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Assane Seck, Minister of State for Culture of Senegal and head of the Senegalese delegation.
21.1 M. SECK (Sénégal) .- C'est au nom de mon pays et de ma délégation que je voudrais présenter a M. Ivo Margan, vice-président du Conseil exécutif fédéral de la Yougoslavie, mes sincères félicitations pour son élection à la présidence de cette vingt et unième session de la Conférence générale de notre Organisation. Je voudrais lui souhaiter en même temps beaucoup de succès dans l'accomplissement de la belle et noble mission qui vient de lui être confiée. Je saisis également cette occasion pour remercier son prédécesseur, M. Napoléon LeBlanc, pour le talent avec lequel il a conduit les travaux de la vingtième session tenue à Paris.
21.2 Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi aussi de remercier en cette occasion M. El-Wakil, président du Conseil exécutif, pour le travail précieux qu'a réalisé cet organe. Sans lui et ses collègues, sans leur compétence et la conscience éle- vée qu'ils ont de leurs responsabilités, notre Organisation n'aurait pu démêler certaines questions très complexes et leur trouver chaque fois des solutions appropriées.
21.3 Enfin, je voudrais saluer la mémoire du président Josip Broz Tito dont la disparition a été ressentie avec douleur par notre peuple et notre gouvernement. Sa disparition, toutefois, n'aura en rien altéré la foi ardente que nous avons puisée dans les grandes réalisations d'une société indépendante engagée dans la voie d'un développement endogène. De son oeuvre, poursuivie avec lucidité, les pays du Tiers Monde et les Etats non alignés s'inspireront toujours quand il s'agira de sauvegarder leur indépendance nationale, leur liberté et leur faculté de choisir librement leur modèle de développement et de société.
21.4 Mon pays, le Sénégal, salue en cette occasion, tous les Etats nouvellement admis à l'Organisation en souhaitant que leur participation aux activités de l'Unesco donne une impulsion nouvelle au renforcement de la paix, de la coopéra- tion et de la compréhension entre nations et peuples.
21.5 Le Directeur général, M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, vient de présenter, en guise d'introduction au débat de politique générale, un rapport exhaustif où les lignes de force du document 21 C/5 ont été analysées avec cette pertinence et cette sim- plicité qui font de lui le serviteur consciencieux d'une communauté internationale à la cause de laquelle il se voue corps et âme. Au nom de notre gouvernement et de notre peuple, il m'est particulièrement agréable de l'encourager à poursuivre, à la tête de l'Unesco, la suite de son oeuvre de consolidation et d'épanouissement de l'Organisation.
21.6 Je saisis cette occasion de lui adresser les félicitations du gouvernement et du peuple sénégalais pour sa réélection triomphale et de lui présenter nos meil- leurs voeux de succès.
21.7 Le document 21 C/5 a fait l'objet d'une étude minutieuse de la part des dif- férentes sous-commissions de la Commission sénégalaise pour l'Unesco. Nous nous félicitons de la nouvelle présentation du Projet de programme et de budget pour
1981-1983. Mon pays et ma délégation apprécient la clarté des documents budgé- taires, la manière dont les objectifs sont décrits et chiffrés, la qualité des programmes et leur conformité avec les aspirations profondes d'Etats comme le nôtre.
21.8 Parmi les thèmes variés qui pouvaient être abordés durant ce débat de poli- tique générale, le Sénégal a choisi de traiter du nouvel ordre culturel interna- tional sans lequel le nouvel ordre économique mondial, problème majeur du dernier quart du XXe siècle, ne pourrait valablement exister.
21.9 Comme l'a dit le président Senghor, "ce“nouvel ordre culturel international s'appuiera sur ce fait, historique, que toutes les premières civilisations et les plus grandes, sont nées sans exception tout autour du monde aux latitudes de la Méditerranée, là où se sont rencontrées les trois grandes races du monde : la blanche, la jaune, la noire".
21.10 A la veille de l'élaboration d'une nouvelle stratégie internationale du développement - après les échecs subis par les deux précédentes décennies de coopé- ration internationale -, l'Unesco devrait, en s'engageant plus profondément et plus amplement dans une réflexion sur le nouvel ordre culturel international, aider les Nations Unies à s'attacher à résoudre en priorité les véritables pro- blèmes. C'est ainsi qu'elle devrait démontrer, à la faveur de nouvelles études, que l'exploitation de la nature terrestre et extra-terrestre par des techniques de plus en plus perfectionnées se révèle insuffisante pour satisfaire toute l'étendue des besoins humains, que la croissance sans culture est inhumaine, que les inté- rêts spirituels des hommes et des femmes, leur existence par-delä la simple satis- faction des besoins matériels, s'alimentent des valeurs culturelles auxquelles ils sont attachés et qu'en dehors de l'Unesco, peu d'Etats et d'organisations interna- tionales prennent en considération.
21.11 Comme vous le disiez, Monsieur le Directeur général, lors de la deuxième session du Comité préparatoire pour la nouvelle stratégie internationale du déve- loppement, le 20 juin 1979, à New York, "Prendre en considération tous les fac- teurs du développement, c'est considérer le développement comme un processus inté- grant, indivisiblement, toutes les manifestations de la créativité sociale et im- pliquant la participation active de toutes les couches de la population. C'est lui assigner comme finalité l'homme dans la totalité de ses aspirations matérielles, intellectuelles, spirituelles, esthétiques, etc.". Et plus loin, vous déclariez encore : "... la culture assume, dans cette perspective, une fonction vitale, dans la mesure où elle concentre les valeurs qui perpétuent le génie du peuple. Elle seule lui permet de formuler une vision de son être et de son devenir, par où se réalise la cohésion de son effort de développement. Elle seule lui dicte les fins éthiques où chacun se reconnaît et en fonction desquelles chacun peut assumer plei- nement les objectifs collectifs".
21.12 Ce n'est donc pas par hasard si au centre de gravité de l'option séné- galaise en faveur d'une société socialiste démocratique, l'homme est perçu et con- sidéré comme agent et fin du développement - "L'homme et l'homme seul, écrit le président Léopold sédar Senghor, se trouve au commencement et à la fin du dévelop- pement".
21.13 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, l'Unesco, ce n'est plus à démon- trer, continue, de par sa vocation et les décisions de notre Conférence générale, à oeuvrer avec ses moyens propres en vue d'enrichir la réflexion sur le nouvel ordre économique international. Mon gouvernement et ma délégation voudraient livrer, à titre de contribution au présent débat, quelques réflexions sur les di- mensions culturelles de l'instauration du nouvel ordre économique.
21.14 La première de ces dimensions, c'est d'abord l'appréciation et le respect de l'identité culturelle, qui constituent l'objectif 1.2 du Projet de programme et de budget soumis à notre attention.
21.15 Cette appréciation et ce respect de l'identité culturelle trouvent leur fondement dans le fait que le rôle de la culture est d'orienter le développement des sociétés, en proposant des buts qui concourent à la réalisation d'un homme intégral dans une société idéale. Il est vrai en effet que c'est à l'aune des va- leurs culturelles qu'on apprécie la marche des sociétés et que la culture doit proposer des institutions et des types de formation et d'organisation allant dans le sens de l'accomplissement des buts visés. C'est ainsi qu'elle peut éclairer les choix économiques et sociaux et favoriser le développement harmonieux et solidaire des communautés nationales. En effet, une culture nationale solidement fondée pé- nètre et anime l'ensemble de la communauté qui se reconnaît en elle et, par l'édu- cation et la formation, lui permet d'assumer son destin. Un tel système est viable de par sa cohérence et son caractère démocratique, mais aussi de par sa globalité. La culture ainsi congue influence et éclaire constamment les activités écono- miques, lesquelles, à leur tour, enrichissent l'expérience nationale, l'aboutisse- ment du processus étant, à l'intérieur, un développement intégral et harmonieux des nations et des peuples et, à l'extérieur, la compréhension dans l'appréciation des autres et le respect de leur identité. C'est dans cette direction que peut se développer et s'amplifier un dialogue fécond, fruit d'une acceptation sincère de la pluralité et de la complémentarité, en vue de bannir de la scène internationale les attitudes de mépris culturel, d'incertitude et d'incompréhension, en vue de faire surgir des formes culturelles positives et inédites, en vue enfin de favo- riser la négociation et le dialogue entre partenaires de même niveau parce que culturellement égaux.
21.16 Ce sera la conquête d'une meilleure qualité de la vie qui favorisera, dans l'instauration du nouvel ordre économique international qui ne s'analyse pas seule- ment en termes de niveau de vie, le processus d'émancipation et de promotion de l'homme total dont rêvërent, au fil des siècles, les plus anciens poètes et les grands humanistes.
21.17 Le Sénégal note en conséquence avec satisfaction qu'il est prévu dans le chapitre 4 du document 21 C/5 d'augmenter sensiblement des crédits alloués à l'ob- jectif 1.2 et soutient sans réserve les actions envisagées du titre du thème
4/1.2/03 relatif à la contribution à l'appréciation mutuelle des cultures et à la compréhension culturelle internationale.
21.18 Il se félicite aussi de voir que des actions sont envisagées afin de reje- ter l'ethnocentrisme et l'arrogance culturelle au profit d'une nouvelle approche épistémologique du développement. L'évolution des idées et des attitudes conduit à dénoncer, aussi bien dans les pays en développement que dans les pays industriali- sés, les études sur le développement fondées sur l'ethnocentrisme. L'affinement des concepts correspondant à la réalité jusqu'ici mal étudiée, la redéfinition des paramètres entrant dans le processus du développement au niveau des fondements cognitifs et des théories implicites peuvent, à l'avenir, contribuer puissamment,    dans le cadre d'une réflexion organisée par l'Unesco en collaboration avec les autres institutions spécialisées du système des Nations Unies, à l'élaboration de travaux sur les conditions requises pour l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre écono- mique international et le succès de la troisième Décennie pour le développement.
21.19 Pour éliminer les obstacles auquel la mise en place de ce nouvel ordre éco- nomique international se heurte, mon gouvernement et ma délégation souscrivent pleinement aux idées exprimées par le Conseil exécutif dans le "rapport intéri- maire présenté à l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies sur les progrès réalisés dans les domaines de l'Unesco sur la voie de l'instauration du nouvel ordre écono- mique international ainsi que sur les éléments qui y font obstacle". Le Conseil exécutif de l'Unesco, dont je salue ici le sérieux et la compétence dans l'exer- cice de ses attributions et sa coopération loyale avec le Directeur général, écrit dans ce rapport présenté à sa 109e session, en reprenant des extraits de l'ouvrage "Le monde en devenir" : "la finalité d'un nouvel ordre économique international dépasse le domaine économique proprement dit ; elle vise non seulement la mise en valeur des échanges et leur plus juste répartition, mais le développement de tous les hommes et de tout l'homme". Il ajoutait, se référant au même ouvrage : "Pour fonder réellement un ordre international nouveau, il faut s'accorder d'abord sur un système de valeurs et accepter d'en voir ensemble les implications : valeurs de justice, d'égalité, de liberté, de solidarité. Celles-ci reposeront sur une double prise de conscience : la reconnaissance de l'unité de l'humanité dans la diversité de ses peuples, de ses races, de ses cultures ; l'affirmation d'un vouloir-vivre ensemble, ressenti non pas seulement comme une nécessité de survie ou de cohabita- tion, mais comme un choix de destin à forger en commun et une coresponsabilité à l'égard de l'avenir de l'espèce humaine."
21.20 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, vous aurez remarqué la convergence entre les idées de mon pays et de ma délégation et celles qu'a ex- primées dans son rapport le Conseil exécutif de l'Unesco. Le nouvel ordre écono- mique international se fonde sur un nouvel ordre culturel international. Tel est le sens du message que le Sénégal, inspiré par son guide prestigieux, le président Léopold Sédar Senghor, souhaite transmettre à la Conférence générale qui devrait étudier, dans le cadre du Programme triennal pour 1981-1983, du futur plan sexennal et du projet de résolution déposé par notre délégation, la dialectique du nouvel ordre culturel international et du nouvel ordre économique international.
21.21 Du reste, lors de la table ronde tenue en juin 1976 sur le thème de la coo- pération culturelle et intellectuelle et du nouvel ordre économique international,
34 éminents intellectuels et artistes du monde entier avaient notamment reconnu l'importance du développement culturel en tant qu'élément fondamental du dévelop- pement global et la nécessité d'une morale internationale comme base de l'éta- blissement d'un nouvel ordre économique international.
21.22 Cette dimension de la réflexion soutenant et conditionnant l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international, entamée dans "Le monde en devenir" et approfondie dans l'ouvrage de Mohamed Bedjaoui publié par l'Unesco sous le titre "Pour un nouvel ordre économique international", intègre culture et développement.
21.23 Nous pensons que l'heure a sonné pour nous, membres de l'Unesco et de l'ONU, de faire comprendre qu'il y a une autre vie à vivre, plus juste, plus hu maine, plus en rapport avec les immenses possibilités qu'offre la science en cette fin du XXe siècle, une vie marquée par l'égalité des partenaires, seule capable de conjurer les grands dangers qui nous menacent. Proclamons donc bien haut la néces- sité d'un nouvel ordre international où nouvel ordre culturel et nouvel ordre éco- nomique soient intimement liés car, comme l'a dit Sa Sainteté le Pape Jean-Paul II lors de sa visite à l'Unesco, "l'avenir de l'homme dépend de la culture".
21.24 C'est dans cette perspective humaniste que ma délégation aborde le débat sur le fond du programme et engage la réflexion sur les idées majeures du Plan a moyen terme. Elle apporte donc son soutien aux huit projets majeurs du Secteur des sciences exactes et naturelles.
21.25 Monsieur le Président, ma délégation saisit cette occasion solennelle de réaffirmer la position de notre pays sur l'importance qu'il accorde à la science et à la technique en raison de leur rôle dans la société en vue de la libération de l'homme et de son épanouissement intégral. Ma délégation souligne aussi à nou- veau le rôle majeur que dans le cadre du système des Nations Unies, l'Unesco, de par sa vocation et par sa compétence dans ce domaine, joue et doit continuer de jouer à la satisfaction de la communauté internationale. En conséquence, le Sénégal appuie fermement les efforts déployés par le Directeur général pour ren- forcer et développer les moyens de l'Unesco dans le domaine des sciences exactes et naturelles.
21.26 De même, ma délégation est disposée à fournir à la Conférence générale des éléments de réflexion pour le futur Plan à moyen terme, conformément ä la volonté        du Directeur général de consulter le plus largement possible les Etats membres, les commissions nationales, les organisations non gouvernementales, les sociétés savantes, etc.
21.27 Monsieur le Président, ma délégation suit avec une attention particulière et une grande préoccupation les efforts déployés par le Directeur général pour obtenir la libération du directeur de la Division du patrimoine culturel du Secré- tariat. Mon pays qui est fortement attaché aux principes fondamentaux du droit, qui est terre de culture, de droit et de dialogue, souscrit pleinement au respect intangible de l'autonomie de la fonction publique internationale et émet, du haut de cette tribune, le voeu ardent de voir très bientôt ce membre du Secrétariat assumer les fonctions que le communauté internationale lui a confiées et qu'il exerçait avec une compétence à laquelle il me plaît de rendre un hommage mérité.
21.28 Pour terminer, Monsieur le Président, ma délégation approuve l'ensemble du document 21 C/5 et les prévisions budgétaires qui y figurent sous réserve de quel- ques petits amendements qui seront proposés lors des travaux en commission. Elle propose à la Conférence générale de saluer le rapport de la Commission internatio- nale d'étude des problèmes de la communication ainsi que les auteurs de cet impor- tant travail qui constitue une contribution de qualité à la réflexion que l'Unesco a entreprise en vue de la promotion d'un nouvel ordre international de l'informa- tion et de la communication. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
22. “The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Senegalese delegation and I give the floor to Senator John Donaldson, Minister for External Affairs of Trinidad and Tobago and head of the delegation of Trinidad and Tobago.
23.1 Mr DONALDSON (Trinidad and Tobago) : Mr President, Mr Director-General, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to express my delegation's appreciation of the opportunity of addressing itself to some issues of importance to Trinidad and Tobago. Before doing so, however, I should like to extend to you, Mr President, on behalf of the Government and people of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, our sincere congratulations on your unanimous election to the presi- dency of this twenty-first session of the General Conference of Unesco. My dele- gation is confident that you will ably guide our deliberations.
23.2 T also wish at this point to express to the Director-General and his staff the deep appreciation of the Government of Trinidad and Tobago for their efforts in implementing and servicing the programmes and activities of this Organization and in assisting it in achieving its major objectives. My delegation once again pledges its continuing support to the Director-General during his new term of office. We are confident, Mr President, that the energy and vision which he has so strikingly shown in past years will be in continuing and greater evidence. There could be no better example of the collective wisdom of the Organization's Member States than the fact that we have again chosen Mr M'Bow to continue at the helm in a period of our history that promises to be even more troubled than pre- vious periods.
23.3 On behalf of the Government and people of Trinidad and Tobago, I should like further to join the other delegations in extending to the Kingdom of Tonga and the Republic of Zimbabwe a warm welcome to membership of our Organization. My delega- tion is looking forward with pleasure to admission to Unesco of our fellow Carib- bean nation, St. Vincent and the Grenadines.
23.4 Mr President, in his preliminary report on Unesco's Medium-Term Plan for
1984-1989, the Director-General alluded to the worsening of the economic and social problems which were highlighted in the previous Medium-Term Plan. The increasing international tensions which have developed over the last few years have so aggra- vated these problems that the majority of the peoples of developing countries are unable to cope with the pressures inherent in the persisting international order.
23.5 Trinidad and Tobago notes with dismay the fact that the arms race has attained unprecedented proportions, diverting massive human and material resources into a type of activity which is not only non-productive in terms of the enhance- ment of the human condition but which also seriously threatens the very existence of mankind. In addition, Mr President, to such a terrible misallocation of efforts and resources, an equally disturbing element has insidiously crept into human atti- tudes - apathy or resigned indifference or in some cases frightening enthusiasm at the announcement of each improvement in man's ability to wreak carnage and destruc- tion on the world. Moreover, Mr President, my delegation is appalled at the increasing frequency with which nuclear accidents seem to occur. Our alarm should Justifiably be shared by the creators of these devices, who could inadvertently bring about their own destruction - and ours.
23.6 In spite of conflicts between nations and within states and in spite of its own vicissitudes, Unesco has triumphed and in so doing has maintained its capacity to encourage dialogue and co-operation. It has initiated its own projects and contributed significantly to the solution of some of the crucial issues of our time. [Its record speaks for itself:
23.7 The concerns we have expressed at the danger of certain aspects of nuclear development and the waste of resources in the arms race do not in any way detract from our recognition of and commitment to the role of science and technology in development. A distinction must indeed be drawn, Mr President, between science and technology for destruction and science and technology for development.
23.8 The Government of Trinidad and Tobago has defined science and technology as a major area of emphasis in its foreign policy. It has established the institu- tional framework required for the acquisition and utilization of science and tech- nology in its development process.
23.9 We note in this regard the contribution that Unesco has made and continues to make in pursuing objectives which are shared by the Government of Trinidad and Tobago. As a result we find it easy to support the Draft Programme for 1981-1983. We wish, however, to emphasize that the Organization should be sensitive to the needs and aspirations of all the nations and peoples whose interests it serves. This implies that Unesco must continue to intensify and expand its efforts to facilitate the meaningful transfer of technology and to assist in the development and strengthening of endogenous technology in the developing countries. We there- fore attach very great importance to the Programme of Action arising out of the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development.
23.10 In its areas of competence, including science and technology, Unesco has contributed to the strengthening of regional co-operation in the Caribbean. In our national institutions, such as the Caribbean Industrial Research Institute (CARIRI), the Institute of Marine Affairs and most recently the National’Institute of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, provision is made for inten- sified regional co-operation. It is therefore only fitting that I should pay tribute to the Director-General who, during his Caribbean tour, strengthened the bases for such co-operation. The Government of Trinidad and Tobago welcomes the development of appropriate Unesco institutions within the region to further the achievement of goals which are distinctly Caribbean.
23.11 It must also be borne in mind, Mr President, that Unesco's fundamental man- date is to improve the human condition. In the area of cultural development, my government sees the need to investigate and utilize the unique opportunities which exist for conducting research into the varied cultures of our own country and of the Caribbean region.
23.12 In pursuit of this objective, my delegation looks forward to the submission of a resolution which will lead to the definition of Caribbean cultural identity and so further international understanding and peace and provide material for the evaluation of an integrated approach in the domain of culture and communication.
23.13 Mr President, I now wish to turn to the vexed question of communication and to the role of transnational corporations in this area. In this regard, I should like to draw attention to the report of the Director-General - in docu- ment 21 C/85 - on the findings of the International Commission for the Study of Communication Problems, in which it is stated in paragraph 49, and I quote: "The holders of the privileges of communication can use the present-day media to shape the messages transmitted to suit their convenience and their advantage. Communi- cation designed in this way ultimately destroys its very substance - reciprocal exchange between free and equal partners - and condemns the majority merely to receive messages whose content, like the channels through which they are received, eludes their grasp".
23.14 My delegation's views have been formed, among other things, in the course of discussions between the Government of Trinidad and Tobago and representatives of the national media. The media's first concern is to bring about some reconsider- ation of the basis on which the cost of the transfer of information from developed to developing countries is calculated. The media's other concerns relate to the types and availability of training programmes operated under the auspices of Unesco and the relationship between the transnational media agencies, privately owned media and public authorities. My delegation proposes to speak to these issues in the appropriate committees. Furthermore, at the regional level, the Government of Trinidad and Tobago has participated in the meeting of a working group which plan- ned the Conference of Caribbean Community Ministers responsible for Information. It was agreed at that meeting that Caribbean Community Ministers should at their Conference in October 1980 address themselves specifically to such questions as a review of the operations of the Caribbean News Agency, regional collaboration on information and the responsibility of the mass media in development.
23.15 Mr President, the Government of Trinidad and Tobago recognizes the need for a free press as a feature of a democratic society. I wish, however, to stress that each government and country must be permitted to establish its own national priorities, based on acceptable international standards, from which there can be no derogation. When, therefore, attempts are made by national or transnational entities to subvert these priorities or derogate from these standards, these attempts must be vigorously resisted. Indeed, Mr President, we must resist and reject those elements of cultural arrogance that continue to lurk in the centres of control of world communication and information.
23.16 Permit me, Mr President, to revert to the report of the Director-General, and I quote: "The equality of all individuals, all communities and all. nations before national and international law is a fundamental and universally acknowledged principle. There is a daily growing demand for more justice, equality and freedom in international relations and within every nation. These principles are gaining ground in the communication field. The challenge flung at the international com- munity on this issue appears to be that of winning a collective mastery equally shared and freely entered into, over communication for man, for all human beings. With a view to taking up that challenge, the concept of the 'democratization' of communication acquires a significance which, it would seem, cannot escape the international community" (document 21 C/85, paragraph 50).
23.17 Mr President, the fragile nature of the economies of Third World countries and their sensitivity to political destabilization and subversion by both national and transnational entities, place on Unesco a responsibility to ensure the creation of a just and more efficient world information and communication order. We agree with the Director-General when he considers that the MacBride Report constitutes and I quote: "a valuable encouragement to Member States to continue, at the national level, the process of examining the communication situation, to estimate their needs and priorities, to formulate and implement national communication policies more in keeping with their aspirations, to identify all internal and external constraints on the development of their communications, and to help in finding ways to resolve them at the national and international level".
23.18 In this connection, Mr President, we firmly support the proposal of the Director-General to elect at this session an Intergovernmental Council which would have the important task of co-ordinating the International Programme for the Development of Communication as recommended by the Intergovernmental Conference on Communication held in April this year.
23.19 Mr President, the delegation of Trinidad and Tobago feels honoured at being present in this country and in this Centre where the spirit and inspiration of President Tito lives on. Trinidad and Tobago, a small and non-aligned country, will forever cherish his contribution to the freedom of small nations and to the Non-Aligned Movement.
23.20 In concluding, Mr President, I am sure you will agree with me that there is need for greater international commitment to the pursuit and realization of the principal objective of Unesco. That objective is the solution of continuing prob- lems of an educational, social, scientific, cultural and humanitarian character so as to improve the quality of life of mankind as a whole. This, the first year of the decade of the eighties, is a convenient point in time to dedicate ourselves anew to the noble ideals of our Organization. Thank you, Mr President. (Mr Turnovsky, New Zealand, took the Chair)
245 The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the delegation of Trinidad and Tobago and I give the floor tool .E. Mgr Ernesto Gallina, Archbishop of Trevi, Apostolic Nuncio, head of the delegation of the Holy See.
25.1 Mgr GALLINA (Saint-Siège).- Monsieur le Président, j'ajoute ma voix à celles des éminentes personnalités qui m'ont précédé pour féliciter de son élection le Président de cette vingt et unième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco. Mes félicitations très vives vont aussi au Directeur général pour sa réélection si méritée. Je veux dire aussi combien nous apprécions l'hospitalité et la sympathie des autorités et des peuples de ce pays auxquels nous manifestons notre reconnaissance dans un esprit de sin- cère amitié.
25.2 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, la délégation du Saint-Siège tient en tout premier lieu à exprimer ses sentiments de profonde gratitude pour l'accueil si délicat et si chaleureux que l'Unesco a récemment réservé à sa Sain- teté le Pape Jean-Paul II. Sa visite aura hautement contribué à resserrer les rap= ports établis depuis de longues années déjà entre le Saint-Siège et l'Unesco, à mieux marquer la large communauté de vues qui les unit et à renforcer leur    collaboration. Notre délégation est autorisée a confirmer, a l'occasion de cette Conférence générale, l'estime que le Saint-Père porte à l'Unesco et à son noble idéal, et sa ferme intention de continuer à encourager et favoriser toutes les initiatives qui mériteront un engagement commun.
25.3 Dans l'esprit même qui a marqué cette visite et en tenant compte des vues exprimées par le Directeur général dans la remarquable introduction qu'il a donnée au Projet de programme et de budget pour 1981-1983 ainsi que dans son rapport pré- liminaire si évocateur sur le Plan à moyen terme pour 1984-1989, permettez-moi de présenter de brèves réflexions sur quelques-uns des nombreux thèmes qui sont trai- tés dans ce programme. Nous les avons retenus en raison de leur particulière importance.
25.4 Vous ne serez pas étonnés que soit mise au premier rang de ces réflexions la question des droits de l'homme. Et ceci, aussi bien en raison de la place plus importante que lui attribue l'Organisation que des situations présentes, si doulou- reuses et si nombreuses, où ils se trouvent en fait mis en cause et même ignorés. Parmi les problèmes que pose actuellement l'intérêt si heureusement accru que l'Unesco porte aux droits de l'homme, nous voulons insister sur la circonspection avec laquelle il convient d'accueillir l'élargissement, cependant si souhaitable en soi, du concept de droits de l'homme. Elargissement tel que l'on parle de nou- veaux droits de l'homme. Deux points méritent à ce sujet une attention particu- lière. Le premier concerne les conflits possibles entre les droits de l'homme en tant que personne individuelle et les droits de l'homme qu'on pourrait définir comme droits des collectivités, principalement des nations. Il faut que soit réa- lisée une harmonisation de ces deux types de droits, de sorte qu'il ne soit aucune- ment porté atteinte aux droits imprescriptibles de la personne humaine.
25.5 Le second point est relatif aux droits dits de seconde espèce qui impliquent des prestations de la part de la collectivité : droits à l'éducation, à la cul- ture, à l'information, à la santé. Si légitimes qu'ils soient, nous devons tenir compte des possibilités de la collectivité, qui souvent ne pourra répondre qu'im- parfaitement à ces exigences en raison de ses faibles moyens. Mais dans la mesure où elle pourra le faire, ce devra être selon des critères tenant compte, d'une part, d'une authentique hiérarchie des valeurs et, d'autre part, des exigences impératives de la justice, qui requiert une sollicitude toute particulière pour les plus démunis.
25.6 La formation de l'homme demeure un des domaines où l'Unesco joue un rôle de premier plan au sein du système des Nations Unies. Comme les droits de l'homme, elle constitue une question où sont en jeu les valeurs les plus fondamentales que l'Unesco a mission de préserver et de promouvoir.
25.7 A ce sujet, nous voudrions simplement faire quelques brèves remarques. Assu- rément, l'adaptation de la formation de l'homme à son emploi futur, à laquelle l'Unesco donne une importance croissante dans son programme, conditionne tout à la fois l'épanouissement de l'homme dans sa vie professionnelle et le développement qui, comme le montrent de nombreux exemples, est affaire d'hommes plus encore que de biens. Mais à ce thème, l'Unesco joint, en ce qui concerne l'école, celui de l'enseignement général. C'est reconnaître gue la formation de l'homme ne saurait se limiter de la préparation à un emploi. Permettez-moi d'exprimer le souhait que l'Organisation manifeste encore davantage cette vue largement compréhensive de la formation de l'homme, selon laquelle l'homme ne doit pas être préparé seulement a une fonction de production, mais aussi à sa future vie familiale, si chargée de responsabilités, à son rôle de citoyen actif et éclairé, à un usage de ses loisirs qui, loin d'entraîner une vie apathique - quand ce n'est pas, comme on le constate trop souvent, une véritable dégradation -, suscite un authentique épanouissement.
25.8 Au sujet de la culture, nous ne reviendrons pas sur les vues à la fois si larges et si profondes que le Pape Jean-Paul II a présentées à ce sujet à l'Unesco. Mais dans le prolongement de ce discours, nous voudrions évoquer les problèmes souvent très graves que pose aujourd'hui dans de nombreux pays le plura- lisme culturel. Toute la question tient en définitive à ce qu'un certain manque de réalisme empêche parfois de voir le problème si difficile de la conciliation de l'unité de la nation, du bien commun dont l'Etat a la charge, et aussi, pour les nations les plus anciennes, des liens tissés par un passé commun, avec non seule- ment le maintien, mais aussi le respect, l'appréciation et la promotion des cul- tures des divers groupes qui les composent, qu'il s'agisse de la langue, de la religion, de nombreuses traditions et de bien d'autres traits. Nous savons la tâche ardue que représente une telle conciliation et les conflits souvent graves qui ont leur source dans l'opposition de ces deux exigences, la question de l'iden- tité culturelle, si heureusement prise en considération par l'Unesco, ne consti- tuant que l'une des facettes de ce problème.
25.9 Je voudrais dire aussi tout le prix que le Saint-Siège attache à l'action que mène l'Unesco en vue d'une meilleure reconnaissance de la solidarité crois- sante qui unit les peuples, exerçant ce faisant un rôle particulier à l'égard de
752    ses Etats membres. L'accentuation de cette solidarité a pour source principale le progrés de la science et de la technique tandis que ce progrés, s'il est bien conçu, et si tous peuvent en bénéficier, fortifiera cette solidarité. Une telle solidarité sera mieux comprise et recherchée avec plus d'ardeur encore si les hommes mesurent plus lucidement qu'il appartiennent à une humanité unique et qu'ils sont tous fondamentalement égaux - nous retrouvons ici le fondement des droits de l'homme. Ils le feront mieux encore, permettez-moi de le dire, si, croyants, ils savent se reconnaître frères parce que créés par Dieu, ce qui pour les chrétiens apparaît avec tant de force dans le message de Jésus-Christ, qui nous a dit tout le prix qu'il attachait à l'unité des hommes, unité qui ne peut se concevoir sans un amour mutuel à l'image de l'amour que Dieu nous porte.
25.10 Ce sens de l'unité de l'humanité, et de la solidarité qui s'est établie de fait aujourd'hui à l'échelle de la planète tout entière, l'Unesco, depuis long- temps déjà, l'a manifesté en oeuvrant pour la sauvegarde des plus belles réalisa- tions monumentales, reconnues par tous comme patrimoine de l'humanité ; et il est heureux que récemment l'Organisation ait étendu cette entreprise de sauvegarde aux sites les plus remarquables dans le monde. Mais le concept de patrimoine de l'huma- nité ne reçoit ainsi qu'une expression partielle, si significative qu'elle soit. Il nous faut l'élargir à l'idée, exprimée à plusieurs reprises dans des documents du Saint-Siège, de la destinée universelle de tous les biens, qu'il s'agisse des ressources naturelles ou des créations de l'esprit humain, les oeuvres d'art sans doute, mais aussi les découvertes scientifiques et les techniques. Le réalisme nous fait encore ici un devoir, celui d'assurer la conciliation de cette exigence avec la souveraineté des nations sur leurs ressources naturelles et sur leurs créa- tions collectives ou individuelles et, plus largement, tous les biens qui ont un rapport direct avec leur territoire et, plus fondamentalement, leur être en tant que nation.
25.11 Ne sommes-nous pas ici au coeur de cette élaboration d'un nouvel ordre éco- nomique où l'Unesco voit l'une des idées les plus fondamentales de son programme ? Puisse l'Organisation, dans les domaines de sa compétence, contribuer à une telle conciliation qui suppose - ne craignons pas de le dire - de substantiels sacri- fices de la part de ceux qui ont plus en faveur de ceux qui ont moins, mais aussi des échanges équitables, favorisat le bien de tous.
25.12 L'analyse précise du vaste programme de l'Unesco nous ferait aborder trop de points dont l'importance n'est mise en doute par personne. Les thèmes de la coopération sont à la fois fascinants et dramatiques, et cela, dans tous les sec- teurs de l'activité de l'esprit, aussi bien pour dépasser tout reste de domina- tions injustes que pour supprimer les discriminations qui persistent encore, pousser vers un judicieux abandon des armes, assurer l'affermissement progressif d'une véritable paix.
25.13 Il importe de valoriser les nouveaux moyens de communication qui créent des ponts pour la pensée et la parole, rendant inutiles et dangereuses les tranchées de feu. Le christianisme est fondé sur la "bonne communication" d'une "Parole" éternelle : l'Evangile du Verbe de Dieu.
25.14 Il faut aussi favoriser l'extension du réseau des conventions internatio- nales qui réunissent les peuples du monde dans une entente toujours plus profonde. Le Saint-Siège entend y exercer un rôle de présence et d'impulsion, car il sait que son caractère supranational le libère des conditionnements géographiques mais aussi que sa mission le lie à tout lieu où l'on travaille pour la concorde, pour l'amour et pour la paix.
25.15 On voudra bien me permettre de terminer en rappelant une parole du Christ : "Vous serez dans la tristesse, mais votre tristesse se changera en joie. La femme, sur le point d'accoucher, s'attriste, parce que son heure est venue ; mais quand elle a enfanté, elle oublie les douleurs, dans la joie qu'un homme soit venu au monde." Notre monde vit une époque de labeur et de peine, mais aussi de grande espérance. Puisse l'Unesco cette fois encore, par la vingt et unième session de sa Conférence générale, contribuer à l'avènement d'une humanité meilleure dans un monde rénové ! Merci, Monsieur le Président.
26. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the delegation of the Holy See and I give the floor to H.E. Mrs T. Siwale, Minister for National Education of the United Republic of Tanzania and head of the Tanzanian delegation.
27.1 Mrs SIWALE (United Republic of Tanzania): Mr President, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, on this great occasion when Yugoslavia is acting as host to the twenty-first session of the General Con- ference, I should like to convey to the people and the Government ol the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, through our President, fraternal greetings from the people and the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania. We also wish to pay tribute to the great son of this country, one of the founding fathers of the
753    Non-Aligned Movement, the late President Josip Broz Tito, and to say that in the few days that we have been here, my delegation has been most touched by the warmth and hospitality of the Yugoslav people.
27.2 I wish to take this opportunity to request you, Mr President, to congratulate Mr Ivo Margan on his well-deserved election to the highest office of this Confer- ence. I wish to assure him that my delegation will give him its fullest co- operation in the tasks that lie ahead.
27.3 1 should also like to join fellow-delegates in congratulating the Director- General on his election for a second term of office which he very justly deserves in view of his outstanding and unparalleled service at the helm of this Organiza- tion during the past six years. The Director-General can count on Tanzania's full support in the enormous task and the challenges that lie ahead of him.
27.4 May I also join others in welcoming the states that have recently become full members of the Organization, Dominica, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, the Kingdom of Tonga, the Maldives, Sao Tome and Principe and Zimbabwe. In the case of zimbabwe, which gained its independence only recently, my delegation does so with great admiration and praise for the people who laid down their lives to free their country from minority rule.
27.5 The Director-General's Report on the Activities of the Organization, among other things, highlights the following facts: firstly, that the Unesco initiative in giving the Organization its own sexennial plan has given the desired results, secondly, that cultural identity now stands out as an objective with far-reaching implications not only in its own field of culture but also in connection with science and technology, and, thirdly that the adoption of the Declaration on the Mass Media at the twentieth session has made the study of mass communication prob- lems more meaningful.
27.6 In so far as the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983 is concerned, may I also congratulate the Director-General on presenting such an excellent document, in which he has taken into account the guidelines given to him in the main resolu- tions of the twentieth session and other conferences and meetings convened since then. One particularly good feature about document 21 C/5 is that for the first time we have a C/5 document with one major resolution guiding all the activities in a given sector. This helps us to view the programme as a unified whole and not in a fragmented and detached manner. I am also happy to note that in line with the Executive Board's relevant decision, the Director-General has presented the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983 by objectives.
27.7 Mr President, while in general agreement with the main thrust of the educa- tion programme, I wish to make specific comments on certain points. No country in the world today needs to be convinced about the need for education. But I believe that all countries are continuously trying to find out what kind of education will best serve their needs. My delegation is happy that the 38th International Confer- ence on Education will offer an opportunity for an exchange of views on educational developments up to the year 2000, and for consideration of the specific theme of interaction between education and productive work, taking into consideration recom- mendations of Unesco's regional conferences held in recent years.
27.8 Mr President, the other problem which Unesco will have to tackle and solve by the end of the century concerns the so-called "educational crisis", a crisis created by the expansion of education itself. The earlier view of the 1960s, that providing education for all as a universal birthright would automatically lead to economic development since needs for human resources would thus be met, is now being challenged on account of the results it has given in the last decade. The introduction of universal primary education in a number of countries, for example, has seriously increased the number of young people looking for jobs. Then there is the escalating cost of education itself which has occurred as a result of both the expansion and inflationary trends that prevail today. Unesco could help by undertaking more research on this problem, and advising Member States on how to cut down costs.
27.9 Mr President, my delegation believes that education must instil in the individual knowledge, skills, desirable attitudes and cultural norms. In order for it to prepare young people for their life and work in their respective societies, it is appropriate that education should be both academic and work- oriented. It is our opinion that education which combines theory and practice should develop an all-round citizen who can both learn and work. Such education should give the learners skills that will enable them to contribute fully to the economic development of their society.
27.10 Apart from this concept of combining theory and practice, my country is now placing the greatest emphasis on science and technology in particular, and on the quality of education both in terms of its content and the mode of its delivery.
754    During the first two years of secondary education, all our pupils must learn science. In the forthcoming 20-year plan starting in 1981-1982, we intend to put even more stress on technology and science at all levels of our educational system.
27.11 It is most gratifying to note that literacy has been given prominence in Unesco's educational programmes once again. Resolution 1/6.1/2 of the twentieth session of the General Conference rightly asserts that literacy should be part of an overall strategy of development of education linking both formal and non-formal education.
27.12 My country having been among those that were early beneficiaries of what were then referred to as "work-oriented pilot literacy projects", I can say with some confidence that literacy teaching can serve as a lifetime of implementing adult education. In our community schools system, we are beginning to appreciate the useful link that exists between formal and non-formal education. For while it might take as long as a decade and a half before the impact of a school pupil's education can be felt, an educated adult makes use of his education immediately he receives iit.
27.13 We also agree with the Director-General that literacy teaching should last long enough and be of a high enough standard to eradicate the root causes of. ignor- ance, poverty and disease. But even this cannot be achieved without appropriate learning materials. In this connection, the rural press and libraries, working preferably in the new literates' own languages, correspondence institutes and radio programmes can make invaluable contributions. As in the case of the work- oriented pilot literacy projects, we appreciate the fact that the future literacy programmes will have to depend on greater inputs from Member States themselves. None the less, Unesco's contribution, in view of its wide experience, great expert- ise and ability to mobilize international resources which are essential for pro- grammes of such magnitude, will continue to count.
27.14 Mr President, the twentieth session of the General Conference took place at the time when preparations for the United Nations Conference on Science and Tech- nology for Development were under way. Third World countries expected that Confer- ence to redress the present imbalance in the development of science and technology. As we all know, this was not achieved. For example only $250 million was agreed upon for the Interim Fund for Science and Technology, and of that only about $35 million has so far been pledged by a handful of countries.
27.15 On the positive side, Mr President, we were gratified by the recognition by all concerned that science and technology require global action. All partici- pants agreed on the need to train local personnel and develop the local scientific and technological potential in developing countries. The Tanzanian delegation acknowledges the role being played by Unesco in giving new impetus to the United Nations Science and Technology for Development Plan of Action in the application of science and technology. My delegation believes that the work plan proposed in document 21 C/5 will lead to a more detailed and concentrated focus on the issues brought up at the Vienna Conference. I should like to take this opportunity of paying tribute to the Director-General for his efforts to encourage closer co- operation among developing countries in the field of science and technology.
27.16 Mr President, my delegation fully supports the eight major regional projects for the application of science and technology and welcomes their possible impact on rural populations which constitutes the majority of our people. The programmes on biotechnology and the rational utilization and conservation of water resources in rural areas seem particularly important. The first implies the development of capabilities for applying science and technology to food production, particularly in the field of the genetic improvement of crops and animals to make them more productive. This programme requires the support of all governments in view ofthe alarming global food shortage forecasts.
27.17 Recent developments in microbiology have demonstrated that it is making important contributions to human needs in developing countries - yet it has received comparatively little attention. For example, nitrogen fixation to replace costly synthetic chemical fertilizers would help to cut down the costs incurred by farmers in the purchase of the latter, while gas produced by anaero- bic fermentation can be used as a source of additional energy for rural communities.
27.18 The provision of sufficient and clean water to rural communities in Africa has been the subject of many national, regional and global conferences during-the past decades. My delegation has noted with regret, however, that no major regional project is being proposed specifically for Africa.
27.19 Mr President, as a result of difficulties experienced in many countries, the world community has of late started to pay more attention to the scientific, technological and socio-economic problems associated with energy. The problem    requires particularly urgent attention in view of the prediction by energy special- ists that a considerable part of the world's recoverable reserves of fossil fuels will have been used up by the end of the next century. This highlights the need for research into new technologies and also for the exploration of alternative energy resources.
27.20 Mr President, the energy crisis affects all nations, and particularly the developing countries, in two ways. Firstly, we pay directly for the increased price of oil. For example, about "50 per cent of Tanzania's foreign exchangedis spent on oil imports alone. Secondly, we pay more for imported goods than we used to pay before in proportion to our resources. The increase is attributed to the rise in prices of petroleum products in the first place. This disadvantageous feature drains our meagre resources in foreign exchange. It thus threatens our planned national growth and curbs development. Yet energy is central to develop- ment. Indeed there exists a linear relationship between per capita income and per capita energy consumption. The disparity in energy consumption between the poor and the rich nations is reflected in the fact that 30 per cent of the world's population living in the developed countries consumes 85 per cent of the total energy supplies available.
27.21 In rural areas, particularly those of the developing countries, the energy problem has taken a different dimension. Firewood, the traditional source of energy, is being threatened by the indiscriminate destruction of forests. If this is to remain as a source of energy, then it is necessary not only to check this indiscriminate destruction of forests, but also to organize systematic afforesta- tion campaigns. Unesco, in co-operation with the United Nations Environment Pro- gramme and the Food and Agriculture Organization, should assist Member States which have embarked on such campaigns. Unesco's long experience in the field of energy should also make it possible for the Organization to assist Member States in the formulation of their energy policies and in the application of new and renewable sources of energy.
27.22 Mr President, before I leave the natural sciences, I wish to say a few words about objective 4.4 - General science and technology education - which is covered in both the education and the natural science sectors. I note with inter- est that the Organization is broadening its programmes under this objective with growth percentages of 13.1 and 23.1 in education and the natural sciences respec- tively. For the developing countries) the! lack of’ properly trained scientific manpower at all levels is one of the contributing factors of underdevelopment. What is required is the establishment of basic training in scientific and techni- cal subjects at school. Our experience has shown that bilateral assistance or technical education is not readily forthcoming. We would therefore wish Unesco to continue to increase its programmes in this field.
27.23 Mr President, the restructuring of social sciences activities under seven sections in document 21 C/5, compared with twenty sections in document 20 C/5, is a positive and constructive step. The orientation to be followed by the social sciences should, in our view, continue to constitute a subject of worthwhile debate in the activities of the Organization. As at the last session of the General Conference, my delegation still feels that more remains to be done to unite theory and practice in the social sciences programme. In the youth pro- gramme, for example, while it is important for young people to know the aims and purposes of the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies, my delegation con- siders to be even more important the operational projects of the United Nations Specialized Agencies which are of direct relevance in their daily lives by solving, for example, the problem of unemployment or by removing ignorance, disease and poverty.
27.24 Mr President, with regard to the status of women and their participation in development, my delegation agrees with the general aims of fostering women's rights and responsibilities within society and strengthening their participation. It is our view, however, that, whatever programmes are drawn up for women, it should be realized that men have an obligation to participate in their implementation.
27.25 Unesco's programmes should also take into consideration the many roles of women including those of mothers, family custodians and career workers; every effort should be made to ensure that no conflicts develop between these roles. Married mothers who wish to pursue higher education away from their homes some- times have to make a very difficult decision either to leave their husbands and children behind or to abandon the idea of continuing their studies altogether. Societies could make it possible for them to be with their families when they pur- sue their studies.
27.26 If any research is undertaken on women, then it is right and proper that such research should be undertaken first and foremost by the women themselves and then, if necessary, also by men who have genuine interest in and respect for women as equal partners in society.
27.27 Mr President, women need to be relieved of their problems in health, educa- tion and economic well-being. Their pressing needs are education for their chil- dren and themselves and an assurance as to how they can obtain their family necessities. It is the lack of economic means in some developing countries, for example, that keeps girls in rural communities from going to school. They are tied to the land as a necessity so that they can help their mothers supplement the family income. Mr President, the point I am trying to emphasize is that the credi- bility of Unesco's programmes on women in Member States, particularly in the devel- oping ones, depends on what concrete activities can be undertaken to lighten women's problems. It is far more useful to identify a few problems and act on them imme- diately than to continue an endless exercise of identifying and undertaking studies on problems that are not matched with concrete, practical and programmed actions.
27.28 Mr President, my delegation supports the proposal that for the time being, culture and communication should remain in the same sector. The situation should, however, remain under constant review, particularly as programmes both in culture and communication continue to increase in diversity and volume.
27.29 On culture, my delegation notes with particular satisfaction that Unesco is paying increasing attention, at the request of Member States, to assisting them in formulating their cultural policies. It is no longer questioned that culture is an integral part of national life and, in contrast with the situation that prevailed over a decade ago, the problem facing Unesco at the moment is that of coping with the ever-increasing requests of Member States for assistance in the field of culture.
27.30 Mr President, my delegation appreciates the manner in which cultural pro- grammes have been built around the very important objective 1.2 - Cultural identity. As far as the African region is concerned, this is particularly reflected in the Ten-Year Plan for the systematic study of African oral traditions and the promotion of African languages and the African languages Horizon Year 2000 project launched in the last biennium.
27.31 While fully appreciating the valuable contributions that eminent historians on Africa have made to the General History of Africa, the delay in publishing this History gives us concern. The Organization should mobilize all resources possible at its disposal to expedite the completion of this work.
27.32 Regarding the African languages project Horizon Year 2000, I merely wish to say how encouraged we have been by the progress made since the project was launched during the last biennium. However, further efforts need to be made to give these languages their proper place in Unesco's programmes in their own coun- tries and geographical areas. Our experience in executing national literacy pro- grammes has shown that the use of an indigenous national language can be a great asset. It will also be useful if this project is linked with Unesco's activities on books and reading, particularly in this triennium when the World Congress on the Book will take place. I am happy to note that the Congress will deal with the great problem of impediments to bock development in different parts of the world.
27.33 As far as the major programmes for the preservation and presentation of the cultural heritage are concerned, the proposed use of simpler procedures in the international campaigns for the safeguarding of monuments and sites merits support. While not underestimating the role played by national and regional training insti- tutions, my delegation wishes to underline the importance of increasing facilities for training at the international level and particularly in specialized training centres such as the International Centre for the Study of the Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Property (ICCROM) in Rome. Several developing states are undertaking, on a self-reliance basis, the preservation and restoration of their own monuments and sites; in this connection, advanced training such as that offered at the ICCROM can be a very great asset. As for the World Heritage Fund, my delegation considers it to be invaluable. So far it has offered modest, but very useful, assistance. We should do everything possible to help this Fund grow so that the scope of its assistance may be widened.
27.34 Mr President, allow me now to say a few words concerning the very important field of information and communication in general. The last decade has seen both discussion and action aimed at dislodging an imbalanced system of information flow, especially between the developed and the developing countries. I shall confine my comments here to one theme - the free flow of information and the new international information order. My country firmly believes in the free flow of information among nations because it is the basis of the establishment of a new international information order. We place no restrictions on journalists or news agencies. How- ever, we expect them to act as responsible interpreters of facts and information. It is, however, becoming increasingly clear that, although they are allowed free access to sources of information, the interpretation by certain irresponsible journalists of the information they acquire is neither factual nor objective. Their reporting is sometimes very biased and distorted in favour of their own interests.
27.35 Mr President, in searching for a new international information order, we are also searching for a new international understanding, mutual respect, dignity and peace. When we talk of an imbalanced information between the developed and the developing countries, we refer not only to volume but also - and even more importantly - to quality. The distortions and inaccuracies in the treatment of the developing countries by international media systems reveal the dominating assumption of these media: that developing countries are incapable of managing their own affairs.
27.36 Mr President, an analysis of the content and style of material produced by some of these media with regard to developing countries reveals the following characteristics: firstly, a wholesale dislike and mistrust of change, especially change that would benefit the majority of the people; secondly, deep-rooted scep- ticism and distrust, especially when the Third World demands self-determination, human dignity and total liberation; and thirdly, a superiority complex embedded in ultra-paternalism, designed to show that people in the Third World countries are incapable of demonstrating responsibility and maturity.
27.37 The new international information order will have to begin by a change in attitude: a change that will satisfactorily foster dialogue in a spirit of mutual respect, dignity and equality. It has often been mentioned that in order to improve their communication capability, Third World countries need equipment, training, financial and research facilities. I am not disputing this fact, Mr President, but if we go by the example I have given, it is clear that the main obstacle to the establishment of a new international information order is not just a lack of communication equipment, but also a lack of the right reciprocal attitudes at the national, regional and international levels.
27.38 At the national level, we should strive to redefine our communication policies and objectives so as to project the important role that communication plays in national planning and development as well as in achieving a balanced information flow - both in volume and in quality - between urban and rural areas. Since information enhances the practice of participatory democracy, the establish- ment of such a balance is essential.
27.39 In practical terms, our appeal is for an increasing capacity to produce endogenous messages through the establishment of communication structures at the local level. And although the MacBride Report has made a valuable contribution in this respect, it could have made an even greater impact if it had provided liv- ing examples drawn from various experiences in Third World countries.
27.40 At the regional level, efforts must be made to strengthen existing links through already established structures such as the Pan-African News Agency (PANA), the Union of National Radio and Television Organizations of Africa (URTNA), the Pan-African Telecommunications Union (PATU) and news agency pools. In this con- nection, Unesco, on request, should undertake a thorough assessment of communica- tion facilities existing in Member States, with the aim of determining their capacity for much more realistic regional and international co-operation.
27.41 Mr President, I would like to endorse the view that the freedom of journa- lists and media systems in the exercise of the profession should take account of the national sovereignty of states. For just as it is true that there is no truth without freedom, there should be no freedom without truth and responsibility.
27.42 Mr President, I turn now to the subject of the second Medium-Term Plan. We are happy to note that the Director-General proposes that it should be operational until the end of the 1980s. This Plan will definitely draw on the findings and the lessons we have learnt from its predecessor. We also agree with the Director- General that the second Medium-Term Plan should aim at determining the means of attaining the goals set within Unesco's fields of competence, and indeed at the attainment of those goals.
27.43 Mr President, from the comparisons that the Director-General has made with the planning of other United Nations agencies it is clear that although all stress the analysis of world problems, their approaches to solutions must necessarily differ. This is as it should be, since each of these organizations has its own distinct responsibilities. We nevertheless agree with the Director-General that these organizations' approaches to solutions need to be studied by Unesco in pre- paring its own Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989.
27.44 Mr President, my delegation notes with particular satisfaction that the Director-General will also look at the National Commissions’ contribution in draw- ing up the next Plan. This is yet another very positive step which he has taken since assuming office to enhance the role and status of the National Commissions. We none the less feel that the emphasis he has laid on the role of these Commis- sions should be matched by a corresponding development within the Secretariat    itself. Mr President, an appeal for the National Commissions Division in the Co- operation for Development and External Relations Sector (CPX) of the Secretariat to be upgraded and its staff increased was not only made at the last session of the General Conference, but has also been reiterated at a number of subsequent regional and interregional meetings of National Commissions. My delegation is unhappy that this recommendation is not reflected in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983, and although I do not wish to appear pessimistic, I must say that it will be difficult to convince Member States of the importance of their National Commissions if this is not reflected in corresponding developments within the Secretariat itself.
27.45 Mr President, it is clear from his arguments that the Director-General has gone to great lengths to be meticulous in his preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983. The budget technique he has used testifies to this, while his suggestion that the General Conference should look into the possibility of creating a reserve fund specifically intended to finance currency fluctuations merits serious consideration by the Organization. The Executive Board could be the proper organ to undertake the initial examination of this proposal. My dele- gation supports the Director-General's budget figure of US $625,374,000 for the
27.46 Mr President, the twentieth session of the General Conference adopted three important resolutions on Unesco's contribution to three present major world issues: the establishment of a new international economic order; the promotion of human rights and the elimination of colonialism and racialism; and the generation of a climate of public opinion conducive to the banning of the arms race and the transi- tion to disarmament. These resolutions are as valid today as they were two years ago when they were adopted, and I wish to commend the Director-General on his con- tributions to their implementation, particularly as far as the issues of peace and of educational programmes for national liberation movements are concerned. I must, however, add that these resolutions, perhaps more than any others, depend for their effectiveness on the action taken by Member States, and that whatever action the Director-General is invited to undertake presupposes their co-operation.
27.47 Mr President, the recent Special Session of the United Nations to prepare for the Third Development Decade has shown what a long way we have to go to con- vince ourselves, as Member States, of the need for a new international economic order. The Third World countries should unite even more and intensify their struggie in this matter.
27.48 Mr President, the gallant Zimbabweans have fought for and won majority rule in their country. This achievement has yet to make an impression on the South Africa fascist regime, which continues to occupy Namibia illegally and to pursue a campaign of oppression which is manifested in the closure of schools for blacks and coloured children and in aggressive raids on its neighbours, particularly on the People's Republic of Angola. In the Middle East, the valiant Palestinian people remain dispossessed of their homeland which to say the least, is a very unbearable situation. On the disarmament front, negotiations are constantly being stalled by charges and counter-charges on the part of the super-powers. My dele- gation thoroughly condemns this state of affairs.
27.49 Mr President, it is clear that if a breakthrough is going to be achieved on these issues, concerted and meaningful action must come from the Member States; this twenty-first session of the General Conference will have achieved its purpose if - before it concludes - we have substantially contributed to that end. Thank you, Mr President.
28. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Tanzanian delegation and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Pierre-Claver Mutemberezi, Minister for National Education of Rwanda and head of the Rwandese delegation.
29.1 М. MUTEMBEREZI (Rwanda) .- Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation, Excel- lences, Mesdames, Messieurs, permettez-moi d'abord, Monsieur le Président, de m'ac- quitter d'un agréable devoir en exprimant à M. Margan, au nom de ma délégation et en mon nom propre, mes chaleureuses félicitations pour son élection comme prési- dent de cette auguste assemblée.
29.2 J'adresse aussi mes félicitations fraternelles au Directeur général de notre Organisation pour sa brillante réélection, qui traduit le maintien et même l'affer- missement de la confiance et de l'estime que nous avons si heureusement placées en M. M'Bow depuis déja six ans. Puisque notre Directeur général, dès ses débuts et malgré de sérieuses difficultés, a su dynamiser notre Organisation et lui faire occuper la place qui lui revient sur l'échiquier international, ne sommes-nous pas en droit d'attendre de lui les actes quasi miraculeux dont le monde aura si    grandement besoin au cours des années qui viennent ? La délégation rwandaise, que j'ai l'honneur de conduire, lui souhaite un mandat fructueux et j'ai la joie de l'assu- rer, encore une fois, de l'appui total de mon gouvernement dans sa noble action visant à instaurer dans le monde plus de bien-être, de justice, de paix et de fra- ternité à travers l'éducation, la science et la culture.
29.3 Je ne manquerai pas ici de remercier le peuple yougoslave et ses dirigeants pour avoir accepté d'abriter les assises de cette Conférence et pour la chaleur de l'accueil qui nous a été réservé. A ce peuple fier et dynamique, qui a été rude- ment éprouvé par la perte de son grand leader, le maréchal Josip Broz Tito, grande figure du non-alignement et de l'indépendance nationale et l'une des personnalités les plus marquantes de notre siècle, j'exprime toute la sympathie du peuple rwandais.
29.4 Monsieur le Président, je salue chaleureusement les pays qui sont venus ré- cemment accroître notre famille. L'admission du Zimbabwe comme membre à part en- tière de notre Organisation est pour nous une source de grande joie du fait qu'elle constitue une preuve de plus que le droit finit toujours par triompher de la force. J'encourage les peuples qui pâtissent encore de l'oppression sous ses divers déguisements à persévérer dans leur lutte pour la pleine jouissance de leurs droits. Je m'associe aux distingués orateurs qui m'ont précédé pour stigma- tiser la ségrégation raciale, l'apartheid et toutes les autres formes d'injustice qui sont à la base des guerres fraticides qui sévissent dans plusieurs points du monde, notamment en Afrique du Sud et en Namibie, où les peuples de couleur ne sont pas encore parvenus à se libérer de l'oppression la plus ignominieuse du monde et à jouir de leurs droits élémentaires.
29.5 Comme cela a été souligné à maintes reprises, la tâche qui incombe a l'Unesco est immense : "contribuer au maintien de la paix et de la sécurité en resserrant, par l'éducation, la science et la culture, la collaboration entre les nations, afin d'assurer le respect universel de la justice, de la loi, des droits de l'homme et des libertés fondamentales pour tous, sans distinction de race, de sexe, de langue ou de religion". Les guerres font toujours rage, parce qu'une grande partie de la population mondiale vit dans l'ignorance, parce que des groupes minoritaires jouissent égoîstement des bienfaits de la science et de la technique, parce que les riches ne veulent pas donner aux pauvres, parce que les puissants écrasent les faibles, parce que l'homme méprise l'homme, parce que le droit n'est pas respecté.
29.6 Monsieur le Président, notre Organisation se dépense pourtant sans compter pour s'acquitter de sa mission. Le rapport que vient de nous donner le Directeur général en constitue une preuve. J'en profite pour féliciter le Directeur général et son Secrétariat pour la qualité et la quantité du travail qu'ils accomplissent, et j'aimerais attirer particulièrement l'attention sur la valeur des contacts fré- quents dont le Directeur général a pris l'initiative en vue de parvenir à une meil- leure compréhension des problèmes qui se posent aux pays membres, pour leur cher- cher des solutions efficaces. Malheureusement, malgré tous leurs efforts, l'Organi- sation est loin, à cause de ces diverses raisons, d'avoir atteint ses objectifs dont le principal reste l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique mondial sans lequel la paix restera toujours illusoire.
29.7 Nous avons été sensibles à l'intérêt accru que l'Unesco a manifesté pour les pays les plus démunis au cours de l'exercice écoulé. Néanmoins, toutes les inter- ventions n'ont été, comme il était inévitable, qu'une goutte d'eau dans un océan de misère. Je demande donc que le programme pour 1981-1983 contienne beaucoup plus de projets en faveur des pays en développement, notamment en faveur des 25 pays les plus démunis.
29.8 Elaboré selon les orientations générales du Plan à moyen terme et en confor- mité avec les recommandations des instances compétentes, le Projet de programme et de budget a aussi tenu compte des exigences les plus pressantes de la situation mondiale actuelle. Il est heureux que les orientations de fond qui sous-tendent ce programme soient la contribution de l'Unesco à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique mondial ; la contribution de l'Unesco à la paix et ses tâches en ce qui concerne la promotion des droits de l'homme et l'élimination du colonialisme et du racisme ; le rôle de l'Unesco dans la création d'une opinion publique favorable à l'arrêt de la course aux armements et au passage au désarmement ; la contribution de l'Unesco à l'amélioration de la condition de la femme.
29.9 Monsieur le Président, je né puis qu'apporter le soutien de mon pays au pro- gramme d'alphabétisation en tant qu'instrument de lutte contre le sous- développement. Cependant, comme l'a souligné la Conférence générale à sa vingtième session, l'alphabétisation ne peut porter ses fruits que si elle est intégrée a une stratégie globale du développement de l'éducation articulant le scolaire et l'extrascolaire.
29.10 Je soutiens également l'effort de l'Unesco pour favoriser l'enracinement de l'enseignement dans la culture nationale de chaque pays. Cet objectif est particu- liërement cher 3 mon pays qui se trouve engagé dans une importante réforme de l'éducation touchant tous les niveaux de l'enseignement afin de le mettre davan- tage au service du développement national et des besoins de la population.
29.11 Cette réforme implique également l'élaboration de programmes d'enseignement scientifique, technique et professionnel destinés à fournir à la population des connaissances utiles à la résolution des problèmes concrets de son existence : l'hygiène, l'habitat, la nutrition, la famille, l'éducation et l'information. En choisissant d'agir dans cette voie, l'Unesco vient utilement en aide aux pays en développement dans leurs difficiles efforts.
29.12 Ainsi, comme nous avons déjà eu d'autres occasions de le dire devant de hautes instances comme celle-ci, le gouvernement et le peuple rwandais consentent, surtout depuis deux ans, un effort gigantesque pour la réalisation de la réforme de l'éducation. En effet, l'enseignement traditionnel, héritage de la période colo- niale, n'est pas adapté aux réalités socio-économiques et culturelles de mon pays, comme l'a bien souligné le président de la République rwandaise, le général-major Habyarimana, dans son discours-programme du ler août 1973:"... l'enseignement pri- maire doit être conçu non pas pour conduire au cycle secondaire mais pour donner à la nation des citoyens responsables, capables de participer utilement à l'effort général de développement...". "La formation du secondaire doit répondre aux be- soins du développement en formant des cadres moyens. Elle sera plus technique, plus spécialisée, plus orientée que générale". Il serait fastidieux de décrire ici en détail notre système d'enseignement rénové. Néanmoins, je dois souligner l'iden- tité de conception de notre système et des principales orientations du programme de l'Unesco en matière d'éducation, et notamment le souci de démocratisation de l'éducation, l'attention nouvelle et accrue dont bénéficie l'alphabétisation et un intérêt croissant pour l'enseignement technique et professionnel, de façon à géné- raliser le droit du peuple rwandais à l'éducation.
29.13 La mise en oeuvre de la réforme a démarré il y a deux ans. Des classes de Te et de 8e années et des ateliers scolaires ont été construits et équipés dans tout le pays, pour ce qui est de l'enseignement primaire. La préparation des nou- veaux programmes de l'enseignement secondaire et de l'enseignement rural et arti- sanal intégré est presque achevée, si bien que ces enseignements seront profon- dément remodelés dës la fin de 1981.
29.14 Ces réalisations ont coûté au peuple rwandais des sacrifices immenses qui ne font que commencer, car la mise en oeuvre de tout le nouveau programme du’ sys= tème éducatif prendra plusieurs années et exige de ce fait quantité d'énergies. Nous remercions vivement tous ceux qui nous ont aidés et tous ceux qui continuent à nous aider. Nous lançons un appel à tous les hommes de bonne volonté pour qu'ils nous apportent leur appui dans cette entreprise indispensable au développement de notre peuple.
29.15 Au Rwanda, la femme prend une part considérable au développement. Elle en est un agent indispensable. Il n'en reste pas moins vrai que tout effort visant a donner à la femme un statut et des connaissances à la hauteur de ses responsabi- lités est un apport précieux à la mise en place d'une société plus juste et plus heureuse, en milieu rural comme en milieu urbain. C'est ainsi que dans notre sys- tème scolaire rénové, le programme est conçu de telle façon que le rôle de la femme dans le développement général de la société soit aussi important que celui de l'homme. Le Rwanda prône donc la libération complète de la femme des préjugés et des interdits séculaires.
29.16 Monsieur le Président, la lutte contre la dépendance scientifique et techno- logique est un objectif important des pays pauvres. C'est en effet cette dépen- dance qui rend les résultats de l'aide internationale pareils à des "cadeaux sans valeur" voire empoisonnés ; le pays "aidé", n'étant pas à même de maîtriser les outils techniques et scientifiques dont il dispose, se voit forcé de faire tou- jours davantage appel aux scientifiques et techniciens expatriés dont le "know- how", ne peut s'implanter sans "système de vases communicants" entre le bénéfi- ciaire et le donateur.
29.17 Que dire alors des échanges commerciaux, si la perpétuation de cette dépen- dance scientifique et technologique devient une véritable arme économique et poli- tique entre les mains des pays riches et de leurs entreprises dominantes et trans- nationales ? La coopération scientifique et technique, la circulation des informa- tions et la coopération entre chercheurs se heurtent très souvent aux impératifs du pouvoir ou du profit qui incitent les détenteurs des connaissances à entretenir la pénurie de solutions scientifiques et techniques afin de valoriser la mise en oeuvre de leurs inventions au détriment des plus démunis.
29.18 C'est pourquoi l'Unesco doit poursuivre deux buts prioritaires en matière scientifique : favoriser les recherches visant à donner une réponse aux problèmes
761    majeurs du développement et mettre tout en oeuvre pour créer les conditions tech- niques et juridiques propres a faciliter 1'accés des chercheurs et des industriels des pays pauvres aux connaissances susceptibles d'améliorer le sort de leurs popu- lations. J'appuie donc les propositions relatives au Programme général d'informa- tion pour 1981-1983 qui concernent en particulier la mise en place, préconisée par la Conférence de Vienne, d'un réseau mondial pour l'échange d'informations scien- tifiques et techniques.
29.19 Monsieur le Président, le Rwanda prie par mon humble voix les pays déve- loppés de ne pas hésiter à participer activement au Fonds intérimaire des Nations Unies pour la science et la technique au service du développement et à soutenir le système de financement des Nations Unies destiné à réaliser le même objectif. Ce sont là deux instruments qui ouvrent aux pays en développement la voie obligée de la solution à leurs problèmes scientifiques et technologiques. Etant donné que dans la conjoncture actuelle le développement socio-économique est indissoluble- ment lié au développement des connaissances scientifiques et technologiques, les peuples sous-développés n'auront aucune chance de sortir de leur situation de mi- sère aussi longtemps que les peuples avancés garderont jalousement leurs connais- sances pour leur profit égoïste. Nous considérons la science comme un patrimoine mondial qui ne peut être monopolisé sans danger par une infime partie du genre humain. C'est pourquoi nous félicitons le Directeur général pour les résolutions qu'il nous propose d'adopter en vue de donner suite aux recommandations de la Con- férence de Vienne, conférence qui occupera toujours une place importante parmi les grandes rencontres internationales.
29.20 Monsieur le Président, le programme d'action et de recherche en sciences sociales témoigne, à sa façon, de la crise qui ébranle actuellement ce domaine scientifique. Pourtant, les problèmes sociaux n'ont jamais été aussi nombreux, dans les pays riches comme dans les pays pauvres. C'est peut-être ce foisonnement de problèmes qui rend l'approche théorique et l'action concrète si difficiles.
29.21 Devant la réorganisation proposée, je ne puis qu'apporter mon soutien а l'effort consenti dans le domaine théorique en vue de fournir des réponses plus globales et plus efficaces. Il faut cependant garder à l'esprit que cette façon de procéder entraînera inévitablement une suspension provisoire de l'action concrète dans les sciences sociales, en attendant d'avoir mis sur pied un corpus plus pertinent.
29.22 Le développement, les droits de l'homme, la paix, la condition de la femme, la jeunesse, sont des thèmes profondément imbriqués dont l'étude exige non seule- ment un bagage théorique considérable qui semble actuellement faire défaut aux sciences sociales, mais aussi une expérimentation continue, seul moyen d'intégrer l'observation à la spéculation théorique. La réorganisation proposée du programme des sciences sociales est un pari audacieux, mais il semble qu'elle permette d'en- trevoir le moment où il sera possible de sortir des impasses évoquées par la Confé- rence générale.
29.23 Monsieur le Président, l'identité culturelle est un élément important de la qualité de la vie dans les sociétés du Tiers Monde soumises à de puissants cou- rants de changement. Sans identité culturelle, l'homme n'est plus un citoyen de son pays car il ne dispose plus d'aucun modèle culturel de référence auquel il puisse s'identifier. Il devient alors un élément dysfonctionnel de la société. C'est pourquoi les efforts de recherche historique, linguistique, ethnologique et sociologique sont indispensables au maintien de l'identité culturelle. Il est ce- pendant primordial d'assurer aux résultats de ces recherches une diffusion maxi- male afin d'en répandre largement les idées parmi les intellectuels susceptibles de les transmettre aux populations qui en ont tant besoin.
29.24 La participation du citoyen au développement endogène exige une action cul- turelle visant à mettre à la disposition de la population des informations et des moyens de communiquer. Sans ces moyens, la mobilisation pour le développement ne restera qu'autoritaire et donc sans lendemain, faisant fi des droits de l'homme et de sa dignité.
29.25 La promotion de la créativité artistique et intellectuelle par l'octroi d'une aide appropriée en vue de la protection des auteurs ainsi que de l'édition et de la diffusion de leurs oeuvres concourt bien à faire naître une culture au service du développement. Aussi dois-je faire appel à l'Unesco pour l'encourager à poursuivre son action dans ce domaine important de la vie de l'homme, en particu- lier dans les pays du Tiers Monde où les moyens financiers font défaut pour promou- voir les oeuvres des artistes, des compositeurs et des hommes de lettres.
29.26 Monsieur le Président, ce faisant, l'Unesco contribuera à accroître, jour après jour, la confiance et la fierté du citoyen du Tiers Monde en son propre pa- trimoine culturel. Cette fierté et cette confiance sont un important facteur d'in- dépendance des citoyens des pays pauvres à l'égard de la menace économique, politique    et culturelle que représentent le prestige et la séduction de l'objet im- porté. Un effort particulier devrait être entrepris en vue de mettre en place un programme de formation d'animateurs socioculturels capables d'identifier la réa- lité culturelle de leur milieu et d'y apporter des modifications adéquates. Ce domaine est souvent délaissé dans l'éducation des responsables du développement. Le rapport de la Commission MacBride représente une contribution inestimable à la connaissance de la situation actuelle et à la définition de perspectives d'action visant à améliorer le sort des hommes et des femmes de la terre par une politique globale de la communication.
29.27 A l'instar de la majorité des autres pays en développement qui attachent une importance capitale à l'information et à la communication, puissant catalyseur du progrès, mon pays a opté pour un système d'information qui serait au service du développement socio-économique. Cela l'a conduit à exécuter un projet de dévelop- pement de la communication rurale (DECOR), avec l'aide du PNUD et de l'Unesco. Cette préoccupation est bien antérieure aux recommandations de la Conférence inter- gouvernementale de coopération sur les activités, besoins et programmes relatifs au développement des communications tenue au Siège de l'Unesco, à Paris, du 14 au
29.28 C'est dire toute l'importance que le Rwanda attache à l'évolution de l'in- formation et de la communication dans le sens prôné aussi bien par cette Confé- rence que par le rapport MacBride.
29.29 Monsieur le Président, mettre la communication au service du développement exige un renforcement des capacités, ce qui ne veut pas dire uniquement une multi- plication des infrastructures techniques d'information, de transport, de télécommu- nication, mais également une plus grande maîtrise de ces infrastructures et leur adaptation à la spécificité des besoins locaux. La question fondamentale est de savoir comment permettre aux pays en développement qui sont dans une situation comparable à celle du Rwanda de ne plus se trouver sans cesse a la traîne des ini- tiatives étrangères en matière de communication. Comment ces pays peuvent-ils de- venir à leur tour créateurs non seulement du point de vue du contenu de la commu- nication (musique, littérature, enseignement, science, théâtre, cinéma, informa- tion, informatique), mais aussi en matière de structures ? Car c'est là que réside la dépendance des pays sous-équipés.
29.30 Les pays du Tiers Monde en sont trop souvent réduits à compulser les cata- logues des fabricants de technologies, à signer des contrats prérédigés, à louer un canal dans une installation préexistante, bref à être consommateurs et jamais producteurs ni inventeurs. Or, en matière de communication, c'est le canal qui détermine le message. Ce qui implique que contrdler le canal revient en fait a contrôler le message. L'indépendance et l'autodéveloppement des pays du Tiers Monde passent donc par cette étape fondamentale que je désignerai par ce mot d'ordre "devenir non seulement émetteurs, mais surtout créateurs de réseaux de communication". Pour parvenir à cela, la voie sera longue et les obstacles nombreux.
29.31 Monsieur le Président, le rapport MacBride a mis l'accent sur l'importance du phénomène de la communication dans les sociétés humaines et, compte tenu des choix faits par des pays comme le mien, dans le processus du développement. s'il est vrai que ce phénomène est important, il faut que les pouvoirs publics en maî- trisent efficacement les paramètres, ce qui implique que l'Etat se dote d'une structure politique et administrative adéquate.
29.32 Je me permets de répéter combien est grand l'intérêt du rapport MacBride et combien il constituera, au même titre que les débats auxquels il donnera lieu, un outil de connaissance et d'action très efficace.
29.33 En 1981-1983, le Programme général d'information participera d'ailleurs a la mise en oeuvre des recommandations du rapport MacBride en contribuant aux échanges d'informations techniques et scientifiques, en encourageant ces échanges compte tenu des besoins spécifiques des pays en développement, en favorisant l'éta- blissement de réseaux décentralisés d'information, en aidant à utiliser et à adop- ter les technologies nouvelles correspondant aux besoins de chacun en matière d'in- formation et de communication, et en facilitant l'information socio-économique, si nécessaire aux pays en développement pour la mise en valeur de leurs ressources.
29.34 Monsieur le Président, devant la nécessité de construire un nouvel ordre mondial de la communication, le Rwanda ne reste pas inactif, comme le prouvent les efforts qu'il fournit à l'échelle de son territoire.
29.35 En effet, la promotion de la langue nationale, le kinyarwanda, permet au Rwanda de conserver sa culture traditionnelle et de l'enrichir à travers les mul- tiples transformations qui font de notre pays un Etat moderne. Le kinyarwanda est généralisé dans l'enseignement primaire ; la réforme actuelle de l'enseignement    contribue à la promotion de la langue dans l'enseignement secondaire et même supé- rieur où de nombreux travaux sont consacrés à l'étude de la langue nationale. Un lexique technique et un dictionnaire très complet contribuent à la fois à préser- ver notre patrimoine linguistique et à introduire dans notre langue les innova- tions nécessaires pour lui donner une pertinence dans les secteurs modernes du pays. La radio nationale consacre 65 % de son temps d'antenne à des émissions en langue nationale, le reste étant constitué d'émissions en langue française (23 %) et en langue swahili (12 8).
29.36 Des centres sociaux de développement et des centres de développement et de formation permanents procurent aux populations rurales les moyens intellectuels et techniques de répondre aux besoins fondamentaux de leur vie quotidienne grâce à une utilisation décentralisée de l'information technique. Ces institutions apportent également des réponses aux problèmes sociaux et contribuent à la promo- tion de l'homme et de la femme.
29.37 La presse écrite rwandaise comprend notamment un mensuel d'information dont la majorité des pages rédactionnelles est formée d'articles émanant de lecteurs. Il s'agit bien de ce que l'on peut appeler un exemple de communication horizontale.
29.38 Le Rwanda s'est doté d'une imprimerie scolaire. Rattachée au Ministère de l'éducation nationale, cette infrastructure, constituée avec l'aide de l'Unesco et de pays amis, permet au pays d'éditer lui-même ses manuels scolaires et, ainsi, de les adapter au mieux à ses propres problèmes pédagogiques. Le Rwanda dispose également d'une imprimerie nationale et d'imprimeries privées.
29.39 L'action en faveur de la presse rurale représente une importante partie de l'effort que déploie mon pays dans le domaine de l'information afin que s'instaure un dialogue constant entre dirigeants et dirigés. Le projet de développement de la communication rurale, mené avec la participation du PNUD et de l'Unesco, vise à créer un périodique rural d'information et contribue ainsi à la construction d'un nouvel ordre de l'information.
29.40 La politique culturelle nationale a fait l'objet cette année d'un important colloque national où des spécialistes de la culture nationale ont mis en commun leurs efforts pour dégager les axes d'une politique culturelle cohérente au ser- vice du développement du pays.
29.41 En matière de télécommunication, le Rwanda est membre de l'Union africaine des postes et télécommunications et en a accueilli dans sa capitale la dernière assemblée. Il s'attache ainsi, avec l'aide d'organismes et de pays amis, à dévelop- per les télécommunications, qui constituent un élément important de la communication.
29.42 Dans le domaine du droit d'auteur, le Rwanda prépare une législation mo- derne visant à permettre aux créateurs intellectuels de jouir de la protection nécessaire à l'épanouissement de leur créativité.
29.43 Monsieur le Président, j'ai déjà déploré le fait que les guerres font rage dans plusieurs pays du monde, que des millions de personnes ne jouissent pas en- core de leurs droits élémentaires d'êtres humains, que de nombreux enfants ne béné- ficient pas de l'éducation auxquels ils ont droit, que dans plusieurs Etats la femme n'occupe pas la place qui lui revient dans la société, que des fléaux insup- portables dans un monde civilisé, tels que le racisme et l'apartheid, sévissent encore. Ces fléaux, je le répète, trouvent leur origine et leur soutien dans la répartition inégale des richesses de l'humanité.
29.44 En conséquence, il est heureux que notre Organisation ait compris que le principal remède à ces maux persistants consiste en l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international. Mon gouvernement accorde un appui total à l'action proposée par l'Unesco pour l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique internatio- nal, pour la promotion des droits de l'homme et l'élimination du colonialisme et du racisme, pour l'amélioration de la condition de la femme et la promotion de la participation de la femme au développement, pour le développement du rôle de la jeunesse dans l'action éducative, sociale et culturelle, pour la lutte contre l'analphabétisme, ainsi que pour l'éducation des jeunes déficients. L'adoption, lors de la dernière Conférence générale, de la Déclaration sur la race et les pré- jugés raciaux, a été une action hautement significative. Il faut que chaque Etat membre songe a ratifier cet instrument tendant à améliorer la condition humaine.
29.45 Cet appel me conduit à souhaiter à la Conférence générale de notre organisa- tion de mener à bien les travaux de sa vingt et unième session et d'adopter des résolutions susceptibles de lui permettre de contribuer davantage à l'avènement d'un monde meilleur pour tous dans tous les domaines de sa compétence afin que l'humanité puisse jouir un jour, sans discrimination, de plus de fraternité, de paix, de dignité, de liberté et de progrès. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
30. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Rwandese delegation and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Alphonse Blague, Minister for National Education and Scientific Research of the Central African Republic, President of the National Commission for Unesco and head of the delegation of the Central African Republic, who will be our last speaker for today.
31.1 M. BLAGUE (République centrafricaine) .- Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, c'est avec un réel plaisir et une grande émotion qu'au nom de la délégation centrafricaine je prends la parole devant cette auguste assemblée, pour transmettre à chacune et à chacun notre message de paix et de solidarité.
31.2 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais d'abord féliciter M. Ivo Margan de son élection à la présidence de notre Conférence générale et formuler le souhait que son expérience, sa clairvoyance et sa vigilance puissent empêcher que nos débats s'enlisent et que nos travaux dévient de leurs objectifs.
31.3 J'aimerais également, Monsieur le Président, rendre un hommage mérité et adresser mes très vives félicitations au directeur général, M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, pour sa réélection à l'unanimité à la tête de l'Unesco. Cette décision de la Conférence générale sanctionne une fois de plus les brillantes qualités intel- lectuelles et humaines de M. M'Bow ainsi que les efforts inlassables quilzala jamais cessé de déployer pour donner à notre Organisation la vitalité et 1'enthou- siasme si nécessaires à la réalisation de son programme dans une conjoncture pour le moins difficile. Je suis pour ma part persuadé, Monsieur le Président, que notre Directeur général saura conduire avec succès l'Unesco sur la voie de la r&a- lisation de ses nobles idéaux.
31.4 Monsieur le Président, avant d'aborder le sujet qui nous réunit en ces lieux, je voudrais exprimer toute ma gratitude aux autorités et au peuple yougo- slaves qui nous ont accueillis avec générosité et sollicitude et ont mis à notre disposition une infrastructure propre à assurer un déroulement harmonieux de nos travaux.
31.5 La délégation centrafricaine aurait souhaité entendre le président Tito nous adresser son message du haut de cette tribune. Celui-ci n'a-t-il pas été, en effet, l'un des pères fondateurs et le grand inspirateur du mouvement des non- alignés, dont la ligne de force est la lutte pour l'épanouissement et la liberté des peuples et des nations, et contre l'hégémonisme et l'expansionnisme des grandes puissances. Mais, hélas, l'histoire en a disposé autrement. Nous saluons la mémoire de ce grand chef d'Etat qui a non seulement présidé aux destinées de la République socialiste fédérative de Yougoslavie, mais a aussi contribué au dévelop- pement de l'humanisme au niveau de la communauté internationale tout entière.
31.6 Monsieur le Président, comme vous le savez, la République centrafricaine fait partie des pays les moins développés. Elle tire l'essentiel de ses ressources de l'agriculture. Tous les facteurs caractéristiques du sous-développement y sont présents et ces facteurs ont été encore renforcés par quatorze années de dictature sanguinaire et de pillage systématique qui ont conduit le pays à la ruine sous le régime de l'ex-empereur Bokassa. C'est pourquoi la délégation que j'ai l'honneur de conduire, soucieuse de voir la République centrafricaine sortir de son marasme économique et culturel, fait siennes les préoccupations du Directeur général quand il invite la Conférence à sortir des "labyrinthes de la rhétorique et de la théorie pour aboutir à des propositions concrètes et à la mise en oeuvre des déci- Sions adoptées dans nos assises". Car nous ne devrions pas perdre de vue que l'Unesco, comme les autres organismes internationaux, a un rôle important à jouer dans la construction de nos pays. C'est pourquoi la situation conflictuelle qui affecte profondément les économies des pays en développement et à laquelle peuvent seules mettre fin des solutions radicales, ne saurait laisser notre Organisation indifférente.
31.7 En effet, sans sortir des domaines de compétences qui lui sont assignés, ni compromettre ses capacités d'action, l'Unesco a le devoir de s'engager plus réso- Jaman dans la défense de ses idéaux de justice et d'égalité entre tous les ommes.
31.8 Nous savons qu'en ce qui concerne notre pays, l'Unesco a toujours su être présente aux côtés du peuple centrafricain et, à cet égard, je remercie notre Orga- nisation qui, faisant abstraction de toutes les considérations politiques pendant les heures sombres de l'histoire de mon pays, a maintenu son programme d'assis- tance et a permis à la République centrafricaine de conduire une expérience unique, d'intérêt international, dans le domaine de l'homme et de la biosphère.
31.9 Si nous avons cru devoir souligner ce fait, Monsieur le Président, c'est pour mieux sensibiliser la communauté internationale au désastre économique qui frappe notre pays, et pour vous dire combien nous espérons un aboutissement heu- reux de la présente Conférence.
31.10 Nous remercions une fois de plus l'Unesco d'avoir permis à notre pays de participer à différentes réunions, telles que celles qui ont eu lieu à Yaoundé et à Ouagadougou. Par ailleurs, la République centrafricaine tient à marquer sa recon- naissance à l'Unesco pour avoir financé la parution du dictionnaire sango, notre langue nationale qui est le véritable ciment de l'unité du peuple centrafricain. Ce dictionnaire constitue pour nous un outil indispensable à l'étude de notre langue nationale et à son utilisation dans le domaine de l'enseignement en vue de rendre celui-ci authentiquement centrafricain. Une telle action mériterait d'être poursuivie et étendue dans le cadre du Projet de programme et de budget pour 1981-
1983 et du nouveau Plan à moyen terme pour 1984-1989.
31.11 Monsieur le Président, l'exercice biennal qui s'achève aura été riche en activités pour la Commission nationale centrafricaine pour l'Unesco. En effet, le gouvernement centrafricain a favorisé la mise en place de structures permettant à une Commission nationale pour l'Unesco de répondre valablement à ce qu'on est en droit d'attendre d'elle. Les efforts de celle-ci ont porté notamment sur la consti- tution d'un fonds de bibliothèque apte à répondre au besoin d'un plus grand pu- blic, sur le lancement d'une émission radiodiffusée, sur la création d'un Comité pour le MAB chargé de poursuivre des activités de recherche sur les écosystèmes de forêt humide en Basse-Lobaye, et, enfin, sur la publication du bulletin trimes- triel destiné à faire connaître les activités de la Commission nationale et les idéaux de l'Unesco.
31.12 Le voeu de ma délégation, Monsieur le Président, c'est de voir cette expé- rience de la Basse-Lobaye qui, du reste, figure déjà parmi les 16 projets pilotes du Programme MAB, servir de lieu privilégié pour la coopération régionale et inter- nationale en matière de recherche scientifique.
31.13 Evoquant la recherche scientifique, je me dois de porter à la connaissance de la communauté internationale qu'en dépit de ses ressources financières limitées et de son potentiel scientifique et technique réduit, la République centrafricaine poursuit depuis de nombreuses années déjà des travaux de recherche-développement dans le domaine de l'agronomie tropicale, de la phytopathologie, de l'entomologie, de la parasitologie, de l'ethnobotanique, de l'ethnolinguistique, de la biologie humaine, de l'énergie solaire, ainsi que dans celui des biogaz, pour ne citer que les principales activités. Ainsi, notre souci est-il de corriger le déséquilibre du système d'enseignement encore en vigueur en introduisant à partir d'oc- tobre 1986 les sciences physiques et technologiques dans l'ensemble du premier cycle de l'enseignement secondaire. De même, l'enseignement de la technologie sera systématisé dans l'enseignement primaire afin de mieux préparer l'enfant centra- fricain à comprendre, assimiler et maîtriser les savoir-faire technologiques indis- pensables à toute société moderne et dynamique. Un accent particulier sera mis sur l'enseignement technique et professionnel qui est, à l'heure actuelle, le parent pauvre de notre système éducatif.
31.14 Aussi est-ce avec une adhésion totale que la délégation que je conduis sou- tient l'ensemble des propositions contenues dans les documents 21 C/5, 21 C/67 et
21 C/68, en insistant particulièrement sur les objectifs 4.1, 4.4 et 4.2. Ce der- nier objectif, qui concerne la promotion de l'élaboration et de l'application de politiques et l'amélioration de la planification et du financement dans les do- maines de la science et de la technologie, revêt une importance toute particu- lière. Car si dans nos pays on reconnaît assez facilement le rôle de la science et de la technique dans le processus de développement, on ne considère pas toujours pour autant leur financement comme prioritaire. Une action soutenue et efficace devra être menée ici auprès des Etats membres par l'Unesco afin de permettre à la science et à la technologie de devenir partie intégrante des différents plans na- tionaux de développement et de bénéficier du financement nécessaire.
31.15 Nous soutenons également les propositions du Directeur général relatives à l'exploration de nouvelles sources d'énergie nouvelles et renouvelables. Par ailleurs, la République centrafricaine envisage de restructurer ses institutions de recherche pour les rendre plus dynamiques et plus opérationnelles. C'est pour- quoi elle sera reconnaissante à l'Unesco de lui apporter son concours dans le cadre du Projet de programme et de budget pour 1981-1983. A ses yeux, en effet, aider les pays du Tiers Monde à développer leurs programmes de recherche scienti- fique et technologique est une priorité fondamentale.
31.16 En ce qui concerne l'éducation, notre pays, qui a vécu 14 ans dans l'obscu- rantisme politique, connaît de nombreux problèmes qui tiennent à l'insuffisance des infrastructures d'accueil et au manque de professeurs, d'instituteurs et de personnel d'encadrement, ainsi qu'à l'inadaptation du contenu des enseignements. Les quelques indications suivantes vous permettront de mesurer l'ampleur du problème.
31.17 En effet, à l'école primaire, le rapport maître-élèves est de 1 contre 65, mais il est fréquent de trouver des classes du niveau du cours d'initiation où un maître doit enseigner à 120 élèves, souvent assis à même le sol.
31.18 Dans l'enseignement secondaire, le rapport professeur-élèves est de 1 contre 75. Mais si l'on tient compte du fait qu'un professeur s'occupe de
6 classes d'au moins 75 élèves chacune, ce rapport se situe exactement 3
31.19 Dans l'unique université qui existe dans le pays, nous trouvons une popula-tion de 1.700 étudiants dans des locaux conçus pour 600 étudiants. La Républiquecentrafricaine est de ce fait contrainte d'envoyer la plupart de ses étudiants à l'étranger, avec tout ce que cela pose comme problèmes d'adaptation et de condi- tions de vie et de travail, voire d'exode des cerveaux.
31.20 C'est pourquoi, Monsieur le Président, le gouvernement centrafricain a con- fié la tâche de concevoir de nouveaux programmes, de nouvelles structures et denouvelles orientations à l'Institut pédagogique national. Celui-ci, à partir del'expérience de l'Ecole de promotion collective soutenue par l'Unicef, et grâce àla coopération bilatérale avec la France et l'Unesco, doit aider à définir un nou-veau système socio-éducatif adapté à la production et à l'emploi et intégrant les valeurs culturelles centrafricaines, afin de mettre un frein aux déperditions etaux échecs scolaires qui sévissent à l'heure actuelle dans notre pays.
31.21 Ces nouveaux programmes et ces nouvelles structures feront l'objet d'unavant-projet de charte qui sera étudié par un comité interministériel, puis soumisà l'examen d'un séminaire national composé des représentants des différentes couches sociales et des collectivités provinciales du pays. Le document issu du consensus national constituera la Charte fondamentale de l'éducation et servira defil conducteur à l'action du gouvernement.
31.22 C'est vous dire, Monsieur le Président, combien la République centrafri-caine trouve judicieuses les propositions contenues dans le document 21 e/5, ment celles qui ont trait aux liens qui doivent exister entre éducation et travailproductif, ainsi qu'à la promotion de l'enseignement technique et professionnel.Prenant conscience par ailleurs du rôle de la jeunesse, notre gouvernement a arrêté au cours de ces derniers mois des dispositions de la plus haute importance.Il vient en effet de créer un service civique et un Office national de promotionde la jeunesse dirigé par un haut-commissaire et placé sous l'autorité du ministrechargé de la jeunesse, afin d'atténuer la gravité du problème du chômage et du sous-emploi des jeunes. En outre, l'Etat a mis en place, conjointement avec les employeurs, une Organisation nationale interprofessionnelle de formation et de perfectionnement, sous l'autorité du ministre chargé du travail et de la pré- voyance sociale. Enfin, différents centres d'éducation et de formation pour le développement rural intégré seront créés dans les préfectures et sous-préfecturesde notre pays.
31.23 Compte tenu de ce qui précède, la délégation centrafricaine appuie les pro- positions du Directeur général visant à restructurer le programme de sciences so- ciales afin de les faire contribuer, pour ne citer que ces points, à une meilleure compréhension du rôle de la jeunesse et des conditions de vie et de participationde la femme au développement.
31.24 Monsieur le Président, la République centrafricaine est heureuse de voirl'Unesco se préoccuper du problème de la communication et de celui de l'instaura-tion d'un nouvel ordre de l'information. Notre attention est particulièrement re-tenue par les documents 21 C/85 et 21 C/86 commentés par le Directeur général, qui cernent assez bien les problèmes. Nous apprécions hautement le fait que leDirecteur général insiste sur la maîtrise individuelle et collective de la communi-cation et sur la complémentarité de l'effort national et de la coopération inter-nationale, dans ce domaine.
31.25 Monsieur le Président, qu'il me soit permis d'appeler l'attention des délé-gués ici présents sur le paragraphe 69 du document 21 C/85 où il est dit no- zum le problème des rapports entre les droits souverains d'une nation es citoyens ä communiquer ou les droits des journalistes ä enquäterrestent sujets à controverse, comme les questions relatives à la déontologie pro-fessionnelle et à certains aspects de la protection des journalistes. Il en est demême pour les risques éventuels que pourrait faire courir une concentration crois-sante des moyens de communication entre les mains de quelques entreprises privéesou publiques". L'acuité des problèmes soulevés ici se passe de tout commentaire.Ce que nous voudrions néanmoins ajouter, c'est que ce paragraphe interpelle tousles Etats membres quel que soit leur système sociopolitique et idéologique et nousinvite à un véritable examen de conscience.
31.26 De même, les paragraphes 73, 74, 75, 76 et 77 du document 21 C/85, consa-crés aux différentes recommandations relatives à la démocratisation, à l'améliora-tion de la fonction sociale de la communication et à la coopération internationaledans ce domaine, méritent .une réflexion approfondie. La République centrafricaine,dont le peuple, après quatorze années de dictature et de censure, "construit    maintenant un régime démocratigue, garantissant la liberté d'expression et de presse, ne peut que soutenir les objectifs esquissés dans les documents 21 C/85 et 21.-C/866
31.27 Nous appuyons aussi les objectifs du document 21 C/5 en matière de culture. Et cela d'autant plus que la République centrafricaine envisage de tout mettre en oeuvre pour faire bénéficier son peuple de l'infrastructure nécessaire au libre exercice de la créativité artistique et culturelle. C'est ainsi que l'ancienne villa impériale de Kolongo devient une infrastructure mise à la disposition de la jeunesse : elle abritera une bibliothèque nationale, un musée national et un foyer culturel. Un festival national de la culture permettra au gouvernement de faire le bilan de nos actions culturelles et artistiques afin d'élaborer une politique fon- dée sur l'expression de l'identité culturelle centrafricaine.
31.28 De même, afin de protéger les artistes et les producteurs des oeuvres de l'esprit, le gouvernement centrafricain va mettre au point les textes organiques et réglementaires devant régir la propriété intellectuelle et le droit d'auteur. Les artistes et hommes de lettres sont encouragés à se constituer en associations afin de travailler de façon solidaire et de mieux défendre leurs droits, en toute liberté, sans le mur de la censure.
31.29 Les textes auxquels je faisais allusion permettront à la République centra- fricaine d'éviter le pillage de ses oeuvres artistiques et culturelles. Mais la gestion de la culture nécessite l'existence de cadres correctement formés et en nombre suffisant. Or ceux-ci font en ce moment cruellement défaut à la République centrafricaine.
31.30 Aussi notre pays espère-t-il que l'Unesco, dans le cadre de son Programme pour 1981-1983, saura nous aider à combler le vide qui freine nos activités dans ce domaine.
31.31 Monsieur le Président, notre délégation soutient les initiatives de notre Organisation en matière de protection et de restitution des biens culturels. Notre pays est prêt à apporter sa modeste contribution à l'Unesco dans ce domaine. Mais il convient de souligner que le pillage des biens culturels est le produit du colo- nialisme et de l'hégémonisme. Le racisme en est également responsable, car cette doctrine vise à la destruction de tout ce qui représente la culture de l'autre. De ce fait, tout doit être mis en oeuvre pour éliminer de notre monde le racisme, l'apartheid, le colonialisme et l'hégémonisme.
1.32 Monsieur le Président, la course aux armements les plus sophistiqués et les plus meurtriers fait également partie des comportements sociopolitiques qui nuisent à la paix et à la stabilité de la communauté internationale en général, et à celle des pays du Tiers Monde en particulier. Que l'Unesco lutte contre de telles aberrations et de telles folies sociales et politiques n'est que conforme à ses idéaux de justice, d'égalité, de solidarité et de respect de l'homme.
31.33 C'est pourquoi la République centrafricaine soutient les efforts que l'Unesco déploie dans ce sens et invite notre Organisation à développer le Système des écoles associées pour une meilleure compréhension internationale et à promou- voir l'enseignement des droits de l'homme, non pas comme discipline particulière, mais comme l'enseignement d'une des composantes de la conscience universelle qu'in- carne l'Unesco.
31.34 Monsieur le Président, la délégation centrafricaine est consciente du fait que l'Unesco a déjà répondu dans un passé récent aux aspirations du peuple centra- fricain dans tous les domaines de sa compétence, notamment en matière d'alphabéti- sation fonctionnelle, ce qui produit des résultats positifs dans le monde rural. La publication d'un journal rural dans notre langue nationale, le sango, permet aux paysans d'être informés des différentes techniques culturales et des décisions gouvernementales visant à leur permettre de maîtriser les éléments fondamentaux de nouvelles technologies nécessaires à la promotion d'une agriculture moderne et de prendre conscience de leur appartenance à la même nation. Notre délégation formule le voeu que ce soutien de l'Unesco s'intensifie afin que nous puissions traduire dans notre langue nationale tous les textes s'inspirant des idéaux de l'Unesco et les rendre plus accessibles aux masses paysannes centrafricaines. Car pour nous; les idéaux de l'Unesco ne doivent pas rester la propriété de quelques intellec- tuels privilégiés ; de même qu'ils ne doivent pas se réduire en simples formules que les Etats récitent dans les conférences, mais qu'ils n'ont pas le courage de mettre en pratique... Ils doivent devenir la propriété de tous nos peuples, et notamment des plus défavorisés, qui sauront ainsi mieux défendre leur dignité et leur personnalité.
31.35 Monsieur le Président, compte tenu de ce qui précède, vous comprendrez aisé- ment pourquoi la République centrafricaine apprécie et approuve le Projet de pro- gramme et de budget pour 1981-1983, ainsi que le rapport préliminaire du Directeur général sur le Plan à moyen terme pour 1984-1989.
31.36 Je ne saurais terminer mon propos sans faire allusion au document 21 C/12 qui traite de la contribution de l'Unesco au nouvel ordre économique interna- tional. Ce document reprend et approfondit les réflexions déjà contenues dans l'ou- vrage "Le monde en devenir" élaboré par le Directeur général en application de la résolution 18 C/12.1. Et c'est à juste titre que le Directeur général insiste sur l'aspect éthique de cette épineuse question. C'est pourquoi nous tenons à dire que les paragraphes 6 à 28 de ce document ont beaucoup nourri la réflexion de notre délégation.
31.37 Cependant, l'exécution de toutes ces activités nécessite, à notre avis, une plus grande décentralisation des structures de l'Organisation sans dilution toute- fois de son autorité. La délégation centrafricaine appuie donc les propositions du Directeur général allant dans ce sens, en soulignant la nécessité pour notre Orga- nisation d'arriver à évaluer de façon systématique ses méthodes d'approche des problèmes mondiaux et l'impact réel des recommandations et résolutions de la Confé- rence générale dans les différents Etats membres.
31.38 Monsieur le Président, notre pays a foi en l'action de l'Unesco. Quels que soient les pressions, les chantages, voire les menaces qui puissent être semés sur le chemin de notre Organisation, nous savons que le Directeur général est suffi- samment courageux et perspicace pour y faire échec afin de continuer à conduire l'Unesco sur la voie de la paix, de la liberté et de la dignité de l'homme. Je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.
32.1 The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the delegation of the Central African Republic, who was the last speaker on our list for this evening. We shall meet again tomorrow morn- ing at ‎للانه1