Twenty-eighth plenary meeting
9 October 1980 at 3.45 p.m. President: Mr MARGAN (Yugoslavia) Vingt-huitième séance plénière
1990 € 10 A9H TF 345% E. DARE ELE ( AX)
1.1 The PRESIDENT: Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the twenty-eighth plenary meeting open. On our agenda this afternoon, we have item 13 - Adoption of the provisional budget ceiling for 1981-1983.
(2.1) Mr EL-WAKIL (Egypt), Chairman of the Executive Board (Translation from the Arabic): Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, distinguished delegates, I have the honour to present to you, on behalf of the Executive Board, the Board's final recommendation con- cerning the budget proposed by the Director-General for the 1981-1983 triennium, as con- tained in Part I of document 21 C/6 Add.
(2.2) Article V.B., subparagraph 5(a), of the Constitution states that "The Executive Board shall ... examine the programme of work for the Organization and corresponding budget estimates submitted to it by the Director-General in accordance with paragraph 3 of Article VI and shall submit them with such recommendations as it considers desirable to the General Conference".
(2.3) As I explained earlier when addressing the fifth plenary meeting, held on
25 September, the Executive Board decided, at its 109th session, in accordance with the constitutional provisions just referred to, to submit the Director-General's proposed Draft Programme and Budget for the 1981-1983 triennium to the General Conference for its examination and, should the Conference so decide, its approval. The Executive Board decided to wait until its 110th session before making its final recommendation concerning the proposed budget, and it gives me great pleasure, Mr President, to inform the General Conference that at that session, held in the first half of September 1980, the Board decided by an overwhelming majority to recommend that the General Conference should approve the provisional budget ceiling proposed by the Director-General, the amount in question being US $625,374,000.
(2.4) This sum was calculated on the basis of a rate of exchange of 4.15 French francs or 1.65 Swiss francs to the U.S. dollar, as these were the rates in force in September
1980. It was understood that the provisional budget ceiling would be adjusted in October 1980 if the rates of exchange in force at that time were different from the rates just mentioned. However, this proved not to be the case. The rates in force in October
1980 were the same as those for September, namely 4.15 French francs or 1.65 Swiss francs to the U.S. dollar.
(2.5) Accordingly, the provisional budget ceiling remains unchanged at US $625,374,000, the figure given in the Board's recommendation. I have the honour to submit this budget to you for approval at this time.
(2.6) The Executive Board adopted this recommendation fully confident that the Director- General, in implementing the programme, will continue to strive for maximum economy and efficiency. The experience of the past six years bears witness to his abilities in that connection, and in view of the record I need not labour the point.
(2:73 I must also mention that the Executive Board adopted its recommendation after noting with great satisfaction that the Director-General was determined that the additional $2,800,000 earmarked for the intergovernmental communications development programme and the world information network on new and renewable energy sources should be absorbed within the total budget, i.e. within the figure of $625,374,000.
(2.8) Mr President, I would not be conveying the true position of the Executive Board if I did not convey to the Conference the views expressed by Board members in their dis- cussion of this matter. In point of fact, Mr President, because of the way this Organ- ization has been administered and the sagacity with which the Director-General has run it, the Board felt impelled to support the proposed budget just as it had been submitted to them. In the view of a majority of its members, the figure was appropriate given the exceptional character of the proposed programme and the substantial needs of Member States, particularly those among them considered as developing countries, and also given the financial difficulties confronting Member States in the present world economic situation.
(2.9) Lastly, Mr President, this decision by the Executive Board serves to reaffirm the Board's complete confidence in the Director-General's ability to implement the programme with maximum economy and efficiency. On behalf of the Board, and with its support, I should like to recommend that the General Conference adopt the provisional budget ceiling.
(2.10) And may I be permitted, in conclusion, to express the hope that the Conference will respond in a spirit of co-operation and accommodation and will adopt this budget unanimously, without division or vote. Thank you, Mr President.
8. The PRESIDENT: I thank the Chairman of the Executive Board for his clear presentation, and I now call upon the Chairman of the Administrative Commission tc present the Commission's report on its examination of the methods of budgeting and the budget estimates for 1981-1983 (documents 21 C/110, Part II and 21 C/110 Add. and Corr., Part 11),
4.1 M. HUMMEL (Suisse), président de la Commission administrative.- Monsieur le Président, j'ai 1'honneur de vous soumettre la partie du rapport de la Commission administrative qui concerne l'examen des méthodes d'établissement du budget et des prévisions budgétaires pour 1981-1983 (documents 21 c/vio, Partie TI, et/21 C/110 Ada. etiCorr., Partie II).
4.2 Monsieur le Président, la Commission administrative a consacré deux séances ä l'examen de ces méthodes et des prévisions budgétaires qui sont contenues dans le document 21 C/5, C/5 Rev. et C/5 Rev.2, à la lumière des recommandations et des observations formulées par le Conseil exécutif (document 21 C/6 et Add.).
4.3 Monsieur le Président, la Commission administrative a constaté que les tech- niques budgétaires qui ont été utilisées pour élaborer ce budget qui vous est sou- mis étaient pratiquement identiques à celles retenues pour établir ceux des exer- cices biennaux précédents (19 C/5 et 20 C/5). Je résume très brièvement ces mé- thodes : premièrement, les prévisions budgétaires sont calculées en dollars cons- tants pour permettre la comparaison entre les montants proposés et ceux du budget approuvé pour 1979-1980. Deuxièmement, les dépenses imputables a l'inflation ont été calculées par grands chefs de dépenses du Programme et budget proposé pour
1981-1983 de manière que le pouvoir d'achat du dollar des Etats-Unis en décembre
1980 soit le même qu'en novembre 1978. Troisièmement, le principe du budget semi- intégral a une fois encore été appliqué, ce qui signifie que le coût de Trinfla- tion qui interviendra dans la deuxième partie de l'exercice biennal sera absorbé par des économies réalisées à l'intérieur du budget approuvé. Quatrièmement, l'in- cidence des fluctuations de la valeur du dollar des Etats-Unis sur le budget de l'Organisation fait, comme c'était le cas dans le passé, l'objet d'un traitement distinct, dans un titre séparé du budget (le Titre VIII). Le Conseil exécutif, son Président vient de le rappeler, a examiné à sa 109e session, ces méthodes d'éta- blissement du budget et les chiffres proposés et il a jugé que les directives qu'il avait lui-même données au Directeur général avaient été suivies.
4.4 Mesdames, Messieurs, le rapport que j'ai l'honneur de vous présenter est main- tenant entre vos mains. Vous trouverez dans ses paragraphes 5 à 10 des détails complémentaires sur les méthodes que je viens de vous exposer très brièvement et dans ses paragraphes 11 à 15 un résumé des travaux de la Commission, qui ont évi- demment porté en premier lieu sur les techniques budgétaires et sur les chiffres, mais au cours duquel ont été soulevées certaines autres questions concernant no- tamment les économies à réaliser, la croissance du budget, les dépenses administratives.
4.5 Je tiens cependant à attirer votre attention, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, sur la teneur du paragraphe 16 où est exposée la conclusion à laquelle est parvenue la Commission administrative à l'issue de l'examen auquel elle a procédé. Permettez-moi de vous lire cet important paragraphe : ‎"مروتروت mière de ce qui précède, la Commission a exprimé la conviction que le Directeur général avait convenablement appliqué les techniques budgétaires lors de l'établis- sement du Projet de programme et de budget pour 1981-1983 et que les prévisions qui en découlent et qui figurent dans les documents 21 C/5, 21: 0/5 Rev.i vet
21 C/5 Rev. 2 ont été correctement calculées". Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
5.17 The PRESIDENT: I thank the Chairman of the Administrative Commission for his report which will serve as a basis for consideration by the plenary of this item of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, document 21 C/111, which is before you, indicates the Director-General's proposed budget total of US $625,374,000, which is also the amount recommended by the Executive Board.
5.2 Paragraph 4 of the same document contains the following resolution: "The General Conference, Decides that the provisional budget ceiling for 1981-1983 shall be
5.3 In accordance with Rule 81, paragraph 2 (i), of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, approval of the provisional total spending level requires a two-thirds majority of the members present and voting. Rule 82 of the Rules of Procedure stipulates that the phrase "members present and voting" means members casting an affirmative or negative vote and that members who abstain from voting are considered "non-voters".
5.4 Unless anyone wishes to take the floor, I shall now put the General Committee's recommendation to the vote, on the understanding that explanations of vote can be given afterwards.
(6) Mr AL-TAWIL (Jordan) (Translation from the Arabic): Thank you, Mr President. I propose that the vote on the draft resolution in para- graph 4 of document 21 C/111 be taken by roll-call. Thank you, Mr President. Ти ‘The PRESIDENT: Thank you. “1 give the floor to the delegate of Iraq.
(8) Mr HAIDAR (Iraq) (Translation from the Arabic): Mr President, I second the proposal. Thank you.
9.1 The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. I note that the request made by the delegate of Jordan for a vote by roll-call has been supported.
9.2 We shall therefore proceed to a roll-call vote on the, draft resolution -con- tained in document 21 C/111, paragraph 4. (The vote was taken by roll-call.) The result of the vote is as follows: In favour: Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Toga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gabon, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Maldives, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, Nicaragua. Against: United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Australia, Canada, Japan. Abstaining: Poland, Switzerland, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Belgium, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary, Luxembourg, Mongolia, New Zealand. Absent: Saint Lucia, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Suriname, Swaziland, Tonga, Albania, Barbados, Colombia, Comoros, Gambia, Guyana, Iran, Israel,(1) Malta, Monaco.
9.4 There were 115 votes in favour and 5 against, with 14 abstentions, 10 dele- gations being absent when the vote was taken.
9.5 The two-thirds majority having been obtained, the provisional budget ceiling proposed in document 21 C/111 is approved.
9.6 I give the floor to the delegate of the United States of America.
10.1 Mrs DUKE (United States of America): Mr President, the United States regrets that it was unable to vote in favour of the provisional budget ceiling proposed by the Director-General. The world is experiencing economic difficulties, and most of the governments represented here
(1) The head of the Israeli delegation subsequently informed the President of the General Conference that his delegation would have voted in favour of the proposed budget ceiling if it had been present when the vote was taken.    are having to reduce expenditures for vital programmes. We believe that the strictures which apply to national governments should also apply to international organizations, even those which have such noble aims and excellent programmes as Unesco does.
10.2 I hope that the negative vote of the United States will not be misinterpreted. The United States strongly reaffirms its commitment to Unesco, and we shall do all in our power to help the Organization make the world a better place to live in. But there comes a time in the life of every organization when it must face financial realities and cut back its real growth rate. This may be difficult, but it need not be damaging to the programme of the Organization. A time of consolidation can be a time of establishing true priorities and of creating a leaner and more effec- tive organization.
10.3 The casting of this negative vote was particularly regrettable to me, in view of the statesmanship and the spirit of accommodation demonstrated by the Director-General on a wide variety of issues. We wish him well, and encourage him to find economies both in progress and in process so that the priority needs of Member States and their peoples can be met within a stabilized budget. Thank you, Mr President. as The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of the United States of America and I now give the floor to the delegate of Japan.
12.1.7 Mr. EGUCHI (Japan): Thank you, Mr President. It is. our badic standpoint that at ithis time of economic difficulties in the world the budgetary growth rate of every international organization, not only Unesco, should be kept very close to zero. This, I repeat, is our position with regard to all international organizations.
12.2 In our view the proposal of the Director-General is a little too high in this respect. Its adoption also means that Japan's contribution next year will show an increase, compared with this year, of more than 50 per cent.
12.3. "Under such. circumstances, we. find dit very difficult to: concur(with the pro- posal, and were reluctantly obliged to vote against it.
12.4 We hope our attitude will be taken into account when we consider the next Medium-Term Plan. At the same time, however, we should like to make it perfectly clear that we fully recognize the importance of Unesco and that we shall certainly continue to support Unesco's activities in the coming years. We also recognize with appreciation that the Director-General has made an effort to curtail the budget increase in response to our repeated requests. Thank you, Mr President. TS. The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Japan, and I now give the floor to the delegate of the United Kingdom.
14.1 Mr KIRKNESS (United Kingdom): Thank you, Mr President. In placing on record the reasons why my government felt obliged to vote against this resolution, I should like to repeat the words used by the Minister from the United Kingdom, Mr Blaker, who spoke in the general policy debate on 30 September. During his speech, he said that "in a world recession when most if not ‘all Member States find that they are obliged to take painful decisions to reduce public expenditure which are often unpopular with their peoples, international organizations such as Unesco cannot be insulated from the need to save money". Later in his speech, Mr Blaker stressed that the United Kingdom considers that there should be no growth in real terms in Unesco's expen- diture for 1981-1983.
14.2 It was for that reason that we felt unable to support this resolution. 1 should nevertheless like to stress, Mr President, that we are not saying that the cash figures should not increase. We are looking solely at the level of activity. We think it is this which should be held steady over the next three years while recognizing that some allowance must be made for inflation, even though the increase of 34 per cent on the accepted basis of calculation from one period to another does give us some concern.
14.3 I should also like to stress that we are not saying that there should be no new programmes or no expansion of programmes. What we are saying is that in our view, activities should have been held steady within expenditure, greater allo- cations for one programme being made possible through reductions in other programmes of perhaps other priority, or by increased efficiency.
14.4 We fully acknowledge the efforts which the Director-General has made to hold the budget down, and we were particularly grateful for his decision to absorb within the budget total the $2,800,000 of new expenditure required for the Inter- governmental Programme for the Development of Communication and the International Information System on New and Renewable Energy Sources. We appreciated the spirit in which that decision was made and can only regret that we had to ask for more than that.
14.5 Finally, Mr President, like other speakers I wish to state that the United Kingdom does remain fully committed to the purposes of Unesco and to its programmes. In spite of our negative vote on this occasion, we shall want to continue to play our full part in Unesco and to help its work as far as we can. Thank you, Mr President.
45% The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of the United Kingdom, and I give the floor to the delegate of Australia.
16.1 Mr SLATYER (Australia): Thank you, Mr President. I should like to make some brief comments con- cerning the vote just cast by Australia on the provisional budget ceiling for
16.2 Let me emphasize at the outset that our negative vote in no way signifies that we are questioning the work of Unesco or its objectives. We believe, however, that Unesco and all international organizations must work within the framework of funds that can realistically be made available given the present problems faced by all Member States.
16.3 For this reason, we have in recent years consistently maintained in all international forums that the budgets of international organizations should reflect as far as practicable zero real growth.
16.4 Mr President, Australia has always made a conscientious effort to work towards a budget ceiling which can command the support of the developed and the developing Member States alike, but you will understand that it is not easy for many Member States - including my own - to accept increasing contributions to international organizations when we are pursuing a policy of strict economic restraint at home.
16.5 In these difficult circumstances, we should like our vote today to indicate our desire to see a stabilization of budgetary expenditure, particularly in future biennial programmes associated with the second Medium-Term Plan.
16.6 To conclude, I should like to assure you that Australia will continue to give its support and co-operation to Unesco in its efforts to accomplish those important tasks on which we all agree. Thank you, Mr President.
17. The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Australia, and I give the floor to the delegate of Canada.
18. M. TROTTIER (Canada) .- Monsieur le Président, la délégation du Canada estime que la situation écono- mique est déjà contraignante à l'échelon national et qu'elle doit l'être tout au- tant à l'échelon international. Cela dit, permettez-moi de rappeler que le Canada, comme il a été relevé et souligné devant la Commission administrative, n'a jamais manqué de verser ses contributions intégralement et en temps opportun. Cette fidé- lité foncière de mon pays à l'Unesco n'est pas aujourd'hui mise en cause par notre vote négatif. Toutefois, il devient de plus en plus difficile, pour ne pas dire impossible, de justifier un budget dont la croissance est excessive aux yeux de notre Trésorerie nationale qui réagit aux contraintes de la situation économique en comprimant les dépenses publiques et en pratiquant la rigueur et l'austérité. Il y a ici, Monsieur le Président, une logique qui a pour point de départ la réa- lité nationale et que nous voulons voir se traduire à l'échelon international, c'est-à-dire dans le budget de l'Organisation comme dans ceux des autres organisa- tions du système des Nations Unies. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
19. The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Canada, and I now give the floor to the delegate of Belgium.
20.1 M. DENIS (Belgique) .- Merci, Monsieur le Président. Il y a une dizaine de jours, dans cette même salle, parlant au nom du groupe I, je soulignais les qualités de gestionnaire du Directeur général et ce faisant, j'exprimais la conviction profonde de mon gouver- nement et la mienne propre. C'est dire que mon vote d'abstention n'est pas un vote    de méfiance. Bien que la croissance réelle du budget pour la période à venir soit de l'ordre de 7 %, le montant de la croissance nominale a causé quelque préoccupa- tion à mes autorités financières, d'autant plus que nous devons faire face en ce moment à de sérieux problèmes de finances publiques : c'est ainsi que l'on s'attend à ce que notre dette publique augmente de 8 milliards et demi de dollars au cours de la seule année 1980.
20.2 Monsieur le Président, la Belgique entend participer de façon positive, cons- tructive, à l'examen des techniques budgétaires qui a été proposé par la Nouvelle- Zélande, si la Conférence générale retient cette proposition.
20.3 Pour terminer, je vous indiquerai que la Belgique fait, sur le plan extrabud- gétaire certains apports à l'Organisation ; par exemple, elle verse une subvention à l'Institut international de planification de l'éducation et elle finance des missions d'experts associés y compris d'experts venant du Tiers Monde. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
21, The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Belgium and I give the floor to the delegate of New Zealand.
22.1 Mr TURNOVSKY (New Zealand): Mr President, New Zealand abstained from the vote on the budget ceiling, but this should not be construed as contradictory to the position of the New Zealand Government, as expressed by the head of our delegation, that New Zealand is not opposed to a modest growth of Unesco's budget although we would have preferred it to be contained at a figure below six per cent.
22.2 We believe nevertheless that Unesco's budgeting techniques should be sub- mitted to close study with a view to achieving even more precise methods of assessing the most efficient allocation of financial resources. To this end, New Zealand has taken the initiative of including an item in the agenda of this session, the purpose of which is to ensure that budgeting techniques will be submitted to further study to coincide with the second Medium-Term Plan and the programme and budget for the next biennium. We hope that these studies will lead to even greater control of the resources which Member States place at the disposal of our Organization.
22.3 Further, Mr President, we wish to place on record our deep concern that the information placed before Member States by the Secretariat as regards both the financing of and the justification for the proposed expenditure on Headquarters, amounting to some FF80 million, was not sufficiently explicit to satisfy the ques- tions posed by our delegation. Since this is a considerable sum of money which will have to be found by our Organization and eventually to be funded by Member States, we hope that such information will be more readily forthcoming in the future when requested.
22.4 It is in the light of these reservations that our abstention should be under- stood. Our attitude remains one of full support for the Director-General's pro- gramme, and this reaffirms our position that the initiatives we have taken on budgetary matters are not intended to inhibit but rather to promote Unesco's acti- vities for the benefit of all Member States. Thank you, Mr President.
23. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the delegate of Norway.
24. Mr BRAUTASET (Norway): Thank you, Mr President. As stated by my Minister in the general policy debate some days ago, the Norwegian delegation supports the budget ceiling pro- posed by the Director-General and recommended by the Executive Board. My dele- gation therefore voted in favour of the provisional budget ceiling of $625,374,000 for the period 1981-1983. However, I feel obliged to state that my government may find it difficult to support future budgets with the same high growth rate. This time, as in 1976 and 1978, we have taken a positive attitude to the proposed budget with a growth rate of 6 per cent as a follow-up to the adoption of the first Medium-Term Plan. During the budgetary period to come, and before the extraordinary session of the General Conference in 1982, my government will carefully consider which growth rate Unesco should aim at for the second Medium-Term Plan period. Thank you, Mr President.
25. I thank the delegate of Norway and I give the floor to the delegate of Gabon.
26.1 FMF PING: (Gabon). Merci, Monsieur le Président. La délégation gabonaise, qui s'est prononcée en faveur du plafond budgétaire qui nous était proposé, se félicite du résultat tres largement positif du vote qui vient d'intervenir. Nous constatons en effet que par rapport aux exercices précédents, le nombre des refus systématiques s'est,        semble-t-il, réduit, et que même certains des pays qui avaient voté contre le pla- fond budgétaire pour l'exercice qui s'achève, ont cette fois approuvé le budget proposé. Nous pensons qu'il s'agit là d'un résultat extrêmement encourageant et qu'il faut rendre hommage à ces pays.
26.2 Pour notre part, nous avons voté pour la proposition du Directeur général parce que nous sommes conséquents avec nous-mêmes. Comment en effet, Monsieur le Président, approuver un programme d'action et refuser dans le même temps à l'Orga- nisation les ressources et les moyens nécessaires pour le mettre en oeuvre ? Est-il pensable, Monsieur le Président, de repousser la proposition du Directeur général, qui est également celle du Conseil exécutif, alors qu'aucune proposition tendant à relever où à abaisser le plafond budgétaire n'a été soumise, ainsi qu'il est dit dans le paragraphe 1 du document 21 C/111. Le faire aurait été, Monsieur le Président, d'une inconséquence difficilement compréhensible. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
27. The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Gabon, and I give the floor to the delegate of France.
28. M. VALERY (France) .- Monsieur le Président, je voudrais remercier le Directeur général d'avoir fait l'effort nécessaire pour réintégrer dans le plafond budgétaire un certain nombre de dépenses. Cet effort nous a permis de nous prononcer en faveur de la recomman- dation du Conseil exécutif et le vote que j'ai émis aujourd'hui est la suite lo- gique de cette prise de position, malgré le fait que le gouvernement frangais pra- tique, chacun le sait, une politique financière très rigoureuse exigée par les circonstances. Merci.
29. The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of France, and I give the floor to the delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany.
30.1 Mr FABRICIUS (Federal Republic of Germany) : Mr President, in explaining our abstention from the vote on the provisional budget ceiling of approximately $625 million, I should like to state that our delegation has already, on previous occasions, pointed out that we feel that the real growth foreseen in the budget is too high, and that it unfortunately fails to reflect the present financial situation in most Member States. We therefore ask for savings by consistently identifying those activities in the programme which are of marginal value, and by decentralization methods which would lead to a decrease in staff travel costs.
30.2 Although our reservations remain, we nevertheless do not believe our objec- tions to be so strong as to call for a vote against the provisional budget ceiling. It is, however, our hope that these objections will be duly taken into consideration, in order to make Unesco's future activities as effective and economical as possible. Thank you, Mr President.
31. The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany, and I now give the floor to the delegate of Barbados.
32. Mrs FORTE (Barbados): Thank you, Mr President. I regret that Barbados was not present at the time the vote was taken. I wish, however, to place on record that the Barbados dele- gation has examined the budget estimates for 1981-1983 and is satisfied with the methods of budgeting adopted by the Director-General. We therefore support the resolution on the provisional budget ceiling. Thank you, Mr President.
33. The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Barbados, whose statement will be recorded in the proceedings of the Conference. Does any other delegate wish to speak? I see none,and I give the floor to the Director-General.
34.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL. - Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Si j'ai demandé la parole c'est pour procéder à une mise au point à propos de deux des interventions qui viennent d'être faites. Tout d'abord, le délégué du Japon a fait observer que la contribu-tion que devrait verser son pays pour l'année prochaine serait supérieure de 50 3 à sa contribution pour cette année. A ce sujet, je rappelle que, dans le systèmedes Nations Unies, les contributions demandées aux Etats membres sont calculéesen fonction du revenu national ; à ma connaissance, la contribution du Japon a Été augmentée dans toutes les institutions du système des Nations Unies, parSuite de l'accroissement du revenu national de ce pays par rapport à celui d'autresPays, où il a progressé moins vite ou même baissé. Mais cela ne signifie nullement    - et je tiens à bien le souligner pour éviter tout risque de maientendu - que le ©.budget proposé fait ressortir une augmentation de 50 %.
34.2 J'en viens maintenant, Monsieur le Président, à l'intervention du délégué de la Nouvelle-Zélande. Je ne vous cache pas que j'ai été surpris d'entendre ce délé- gué, qui est aussi membre du Conseil exécutif de l'Unesco, se référer à la somme de 80 millions de francs destinée à financer l'aménagement des locaux du Siège, alors qu'il expliquait son vote sur le plafond budgétaire. Je tiens à souligner que cette somme de 80 millions de francs, soit environ 19 millions de dollars, a été totalement exclue du calcul du plafond budgétaire ; si ce montant soulève un problème, il pourra donner lieu à un débat le moment venu mais je ne voudrais pas l'engager ici, Monsieur le Président.
34.3 Enfin, Monsieur le Président, comme je l'ai dit ce matin, mon intention a été de présenter un Projet de programme et de budget qui respecte scrupuleusement les directives que vous m'avez données, en d'autres termes les décisions prises tant par la Conférence générale à sa vingtième session que par le Conseil exécu- tif. J'ai communiqué aux Etats membres le Projet de programme et de budget pour
1981-1983 dans les délais prescrits. Les Etats membres avaient le droit et la pos- sibilité, en application de l'article 78 B, paragraphe 1, du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale, de formuler six semaines au moins avant l'ouverture de la Conférence générale, des propositions tendant à relever ou à abaisser le pla- fond budgétaire.
34.4 Or, aucun Etat membre, aucun même de ceux qui ont voté aujourd'hui contre le plafond budgétaire proposé n'a présenté de proposition d'abaissement ou de relève- ment du plafond. Je veux aussi souligner, comme je n'ai cessé de le faire devant le Conseil exécutif comme devant la Conférence générale, que si un Etat membre considère qu'une activité, quelle qu'elle soit, n'est pas justifiée et doit donc être supprimée, il a toute latitude de proposer la suppression de cette activité et une diminution correspondante du montant du budget de l'Organisation.
36.5 Je pense que cette façon de voir les choses est on ne peut plus démocra- tique. J'ai pris mes responsabilités, en fonction des directives que vous m'avez données, et j'estime que vous vous deviez de prendre les vôtres. Je remercie toutes les délégations qui ont voté en faveur du plafond budgétaire proposé, mais je souhaite aussi assurer celles qui ont émis un vote défavorable ou se sont abste- nues, que je m'efforcerai d'exécuter le budget approuvé dans les meilleures condi- tions possibles, dans l'intérêt de l'ensemble des Etats membres. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
35. The PRESIDENT: I thank the Director-General. The delegate of Japan has the floor.
36. Mr EGUCHI (Japan): Thank you very much, Mr President. I certainly would like to confirm that the increase in the Unesco budget is not the sole reason for this 50 per cent increase in dollar terms - or 80 per cent increase in yen terms - in Japan's con- tribution, in just one year. We certainly recognize that this increase is basically decided in the United Nations itself. At the same time I hope it will be understood that at home in Japan we have our budget policy, and that it is very difficult for our authorities to explain this high increase despite the fact that our share in the United Nations budget has been raised by a certain percentage. Thank you, Mr President.
37. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. I give the floor to the delegate of New Zealand.
38. Mr TURNOVSKY (New Zealand): Mr President, I wish to assure the Director-General that I fully understand that the amount to which we referred is not included in the budget ceiling. 1 was careful in explaining my vote to say that it is an item which will eventually have to be funded by Member States. In other words, it is a commitment for the future, and we do not even object to that either. I merely made the point that we would have appreciated more information on the subject. That was all, so we can assure the Director-General that there is no misunderstanding on the issue. Thank you, Mr President.
39. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. Are there any other speakers? No? Then we have com- pleted our first series of plenary meetings. Thank you all for your co-operation. The meeting stands adjourned. The meeting rose at 4.45 p.m. La séance est levée à 16 h.45 Se levanta-la sesión a las 16. Заседание закрывается в ‏16.45 ربظلادعبةعاضلا"ىفةسلجلاتعفو zo SUTFTFF 4 6} 45 HER