Thirty-third plenary meeting
2 October 1980 at/ 10.25 a.m. President: Mr MARGAN (Yugoslavia) Trente-troisième séance plénière
1.1 ‘The PRESIDENT; I declare this morning's meeting open. Mr Director-General, Your Excellen- cies, ladies and gentlemen, you will recall that at its fifth plenary meeting on
25 September 1980, the General Conference unanimously adopted a resolution admit- ting the Kingdom of Tonga as a Member State of Unesco. On 29 September 1980, the Minister of Education of Tonga deposited the instrument of acceptance of the Con- stitution of Unesco with the Government of the United Kingdom, and since that date the Kingdom of Tonga has enjoyed full membership of the Organization.
1.2 I now have the pleasure to announce the ceremony of flag hoisting. May I invite Mr Tevita Uasi Ahokovi, the delegate of Tonga, to come to the rostrum to hand the national flag to the Director-General. (Applause)
1.3 Ladies and gentlemen, your applause reflects the pleasure and satisfaction which we all feel on this happy occasion. Thank you. ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE DELEGATE OF CANADA ON THE OCCASION OF THE TENTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE INTERNATIONAL YOUTH ORCHESTRA COMMUNICATION DU DELEGUE DU CANADA A L'OCCASION DU DIXIEME ANNIVERSAIRE DE L'ORCHESTRE MONDIAL DES JEUNESSES MUSICALES COMUNICACION DEL DELEGADO DE CANADA CON MOTIVO DEL 100 ANIVERSARIO DE LA ORQUESTA MUNDIAL DE LAS JUVENTUDES MUSICALES СООБЩЕНИЕ ПРЕДСТАВИТЕЛЯ КАНАДЫ ПО ПОВОДУ ДЕСЯТОЙ ГОДОВЩИНЫ МЕЖДУНАРОДНОГО МОЛОДЕЖНОГО ОРКЕСТРА ORENze]IGNISI HEKRATEREE SEANAI ‎ضم
2% The PRESIDENT: Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to the head of the delegation of Canada for a special announcement on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the International Youth Orchestra, which is the subject of draft resolution 21 C/DR.366 submitted by the delegation of Belgium.
3415 1 ATROTTIER (Canada).— Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, vous avez entendu au début du mois S. Exc. Mme Monique Bégin, ministre de la santé na- tionale et du bien-étre social du Canada, annoncer dans son discours la remise aux chefs de délégation d'un coffret de disques enregistrés par l'Orchestre mondial des jeunesses musicales grâce aux services techniques de Radio-Canada Internatio- nal, dont le directeur est Mme Betty Zimmerman, membre de la délégation canadienne et également membre de la Commission MacBride. Nous souhaitons donner ainsi une illustration de la teneur du projet de résolution 21 C/DR.366, présenté par la Belgique et portant précisément sur l'Orchestre mondial des jeunesses musicales. Cet orchestre, né au Canada en 1970, réunit de jeunes instrumentistes de talent venant d'une vingtaine de pays et se produit chaque année sous la direction de tel ou tel chef de réputation internationale dans un pays différent. L'Orchestre mon- dial des jeunesses musicales suit fidèlement l'action que déploie l'Unesco dans les domaines de la jeunesse et de la musique. On peut même dire que l'Orchestre mondial des jeunesses musicales est une image vivante de cette action et le Canada s'enorgueillit à juste titre de l'avoir favorisée et encouragée.
3.2 La Belgique, on le sait, est la patrie d'origine, avec la France, de la Fédé- ration internationale des jeunesses musicales, qui compte d'ailleurs parmi les membres fondateurs du Conseil international de la musique, organisation non gouver- nementale dotée du statut consultatif auprès de l'Unesco.
3.3 J'ai le plaisir, Monsieur le Président, de vous remettre ce coffret souvenir à vous-même ainsi qu'à Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif et à Monsieur le Directeur général, à l'occasion de la tenue de la Conférence générale à Belgrade, en Yougoslavie, dans cette même Yougoslavie où la Fédération internationale des jeunesses musicales a implanté le centre ‘culturel de GroZnjan, en Istrie. Monsieur le Président, vivent la jeunesse, vive la musique, vive les jeunesses musicales.
4. "The PRESIDENT: I should like to thank the delegate of Canada for his gift, which came as a most pleasant surprise. FIRST REPORT OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE/PREMIER RAPPORT DU COMITE JURIDIQUE/PRIMER INFORME DEL COMITE СОЕТОТСО/ПЕРВЫЙ ДОКЛАД ЮРИДИЧЕСКОГО КОМИТЕТА/ HERALMERAEةينوناقلاةنجتللوألايرفتلا‏
5." The PRESIDENT: Ladies and gentlemen, we now move on to item 27.2 of our agenda - Draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, Rules 25, 30, 34,
5.2 You will recall that the Conference decided to transfer this item to the Legal Committee for study. The Committee has examined the item, and the result of this examination is summarized in the first report of the Committee, docu- ment 21 C/106.
5.3 I should now like to invite the Chairman of the Legal Committee, Mr Tanguay, of Canada, to present this report to the Conference. Mr Tanguay, you have the floor.
6.1 Mr TANGUAY (Canada), Chairman of the Legal Committee: Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, at its second meeting held on 26 September, the Legal Committee examined item 27.2, which concerns the number of Vice-Presidents of the General Conference and the number of Programme Commis- sions of the Conference. It was recalled that the General Conference, at its nineteenth, twentieth and current sessions, had found it necessary to elect more than the 15 Vice-Presidents envisaged in its Rules of Procedure and consequently to suspend the relevant Rules. The Legal Committee considers in this connection that the General Conference will probably wish to continue to elect more than 15 Vice-Presidents at its future sessions. The objective of the Director-General's proposal is therefore to formalize the current practice of the General Conference of electing at each of its sessions the number of Vice-Presidents considered desir- able in the light of the particular necessities of the given session.
6.2 Some members of the Committee preferred a solution which would leave the General Conference entirely free to decide at each of its sessions the number of Vice-Presidents that it wished to elect. A number of members of the Committee, on the other hand, stated that if it was considered that there was need for more Vice-Presidents than the 15 provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, a new figure should be fixed having due regard to the size of the cur- rent membership of the Organization which is now 153. Other members of the Com- mittee suggested a third solution which would leave the General Conference, at each of its sessions, free to elect, subject to a maximum to be specified in its Rules of Procedure, the number of Vice-Presidents it deemed necessary for the session.
6.3 In conclusion, the Committee decided to recommend to the General Conference that all of the three alternatives are legally feasible, and that the Conference may accordingly adopt any one of them. Depending on the solution it deems the most appropriate, the General Conference may wish to adopt one of the three draft resolutions proposed in Annex I to the report of the Legal Committee.
6.4 Mr President, I should like, in my capacity as Chairman of the Legal Commit- tee, to make a suggestion which will perhaps facilitate the work of the General Conference. I believe that the solution proposed in Alternative C of Annex I to the report of the Legal Committee (21 C/106) has the advantage of combining the ideas behind the proposals contained in Alternatives A and B. This being the    case, Mr President, the General Conference might with advantage adopt the draft resolution reproduced in Alternative C, it being understood that the maximum num- ber of Vice-Presidents will be the number elected at the present session of the General Conference, that is 32.
6.5 With regard to the proposed amendment to Rule 47 (2) of the Rules of Proce- dure of the General Conference, which concerns the Programme Commission, it was explained that the provisions of that Rule lacked current relevance, because the expansion of the programme of the Organization in recent years made it unlikely that at any of its future sessions the General Conference would decide to estab- lish only one Programme Commission. The aim of the Director-General's proposal was accordingly to enable the General Conference to remove from its Rules of Pro- cedure a provision which had become virtually redundant.
6.6 On this point, the Committee concluded that there are no legal obstacles to the adoption by the General Conference of that proposal. Thus, if the General Conference is in favour of the proposal, it may wish to adopt the draft resolution contained in Annex II of the Committee's report.
6.7 The Committee wishes to advise the General Conference that, in accordance with Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, any of the draft resolutions contained in Annexes I and II of its report may be adopted by a decision of the Conference taken by a majority of the members present and voting. Thank you, Mr President.
7.5 The PRESIDENT: I thank Mr Tanguay for his very clear presentation. May I consider that the Conference is ready to take note of the First Report of the Legal Committee?
7.3 As you have heard, the Committee suggests three different alternatives to the Conference for the amendment of Rules 25, 30, 34 and 38 of the Rules of Procedure. The first consists in not stipulating the number of Vice-Presidents to be elected, leaving the Conference to decide at each session on what it considers an appropri- ate number of Vice-Presidents. This is to be found in Alternative A of Annex I to document 21 C/106. The second alternative is for the Conference to decide now on what may be an appropriate number of Vice-Presidents, and to amend Rules 25, 30, 34 and 38 of the Rules of Procedure.accordingly. This.sclution is..set .outuán: Alternar tive B of Annex Ito document 2210/1206. She third possibility Is for the.Confer- ence to decide now on the maximum number of Vice-Presidents, a number not to be exceeded at any conference session, leaving it to the General Conference to decide on the exact number of Vice-Presidents at each session, providing of course that the number agreed upon does not exceed the maximum stipulated. This solution, as Mr Tanguay has so pertinently underlined, would have the advantage of combining the positive aspects of the two previous alternatives; it would keep the General Committee membership at a manageable level while leaving enough flexibility for the Conference to decide on the composition of the General Committee at each ses- sion. This, last option Is set. out, in Alternative, Cr an, Annex TI. to document 21. .C/106.
7.4 It is therefore for the Conference to decide which of the three alternatives it wishes toselect. + should like tolinvite your comments in this connection.
7.5 I see that no delegation wishes to take the floor. May I again remind you therefore that the Chairman of the Legal Committee has pointed to the advantages of Alternative C, which should be completed by the addition of the figure "32" at the end of subparagraph (iv) of the relevant draft resolution. Does any delega- tion wish to suggest any other solution, or to put forward an opinion on this matter? NO?
7.6 Then I understand that you agree to adopt the resolution set out under Alternative C. als IE ‎دكه0 07
7.8 We now move to a more straightforward question, namely the amendment of Rule 47 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. As Mr Tanguay has explained, the object of this amendment is to delete all reference to a Programme Commission since, given the expansion of the programme of the Organization, it is unlikely that the General Conference will decide to establish only one Programme Commission at any of its future sessions. I believe this causes no problem, and that we can therefore adopt without difficulty the resolution proposed to us by the Legal Committee in Annex II of document 21 C/106. .Is there any opposition to this proposal? I see none.
7490iTheiresolutiontis tadopted.      FOURTH REPORT OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE/QUATRIEME RAPPORT DU COMITE JURIDIQUE/CUARTO INFORME DEL COMITE JURIDICO/YETBEPTHH TOKJIAI ЮРИДИЧЕСКОГО КОМИТЕТА / EEENLORALEةينوناقلاةنجللعبارلاريرقتلا/‏
8.1 The PRESIDENT: Ladies and gentlemen, we now move to item 27.3 of our agenda - Draft amend- ment to the Statutes of the International Bureau of Education. This item is dealt witn in document 21 C/96 and was referred to the Legal Committee for study at the request of the General Conference.
8.2 I should now like to invite the Chairman of the Legal Committee to present to the Conference the results of the examination of this item by the Committee as they appear in its Fourth Report (document 21 c/114). Mr Tanguay, you have the floor.
9.1 Mr TANGUAY (Canada), Chairman of the Legal Committee: Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, the Legal Committee exam- ined this item at its ninth meeting held on 7 October.
9.2 In his introduction, the Legal Adviser recalled that under the terms of Article II (la) of its Statutes, the International Bureau of Education (ТВЕ) is required "to prepare for and organize, at least every two years, the sessions of the International Conference on Public Education in accordance with the decisions of the General Conference and subject to Unesco rules in force and applicable". The Statutes of the IBE were adopted by the General Conference at its fifteenth session in 1968.
9.3 The Committee noted that the 38th session of the International Conference on Public Education is scheduled to take place in 1981. It was explained in this connection that the 39th session of the International Conference would ordinarily have to be held not later than 1983 in accordance with,the provisions of Article II (la) of the IBE Statutes. The IBE, however, wishes to hold its
39th session in 1984, i.e. the year following that in which the next session of the Unesco General Conference will take place.
9.4 The Committee agreed that it would be necessary for the General Conference to adopt and insert in the IBE Statutes an appropriate transitional provision which would permit the Bureau to hold the 39th session of the International Con- ference on Public Education three years after the 38th session in 1981, thereby exceeding the two-year maximum period of interval stipulated under Article II (la) ofthe IBEa Statutes.
9.5 On this point, it was observed by the Committee that nothing under the terms of the Agreement between Unesco and the IBE, which entered into force on 1 January
1969 and which concerned the transfer by the IBE to Unesco of the former's func- tions under its Statutes as they existed then, raised any legal obstacles against the adoption by the General Conference of the proposed transitional provisions.
9.6 The Committee therefore recommends that the General Conference adopt, by a decision taken by a simple majority of Member States present and voting, thé draft resolution contained in the Annex to its Fourth Report (document 21 C/114).
9.7 Mr President, in concluding its examination of the item, the Committee expressed the hope that the IBE Council would examine the whole question of the periodicity of the sessions of the International Conference on Public Education with a view to submitting as appropriate, to the General Conference at its twenty- second session, recommendations which would allow for more 11650 In the scheduling of sessions of the International Conference.
9,8 "Thank you, "Mr "President.
10:1 THe [PRESTDENT: I thank the Chairman of the Legal Committee for his concise and clear presen- tation. May I consider that the General Conference is ready to take note of the Fourth Report of the Legal Committee?
10.2 It is ‘so decided.
10.3 If there are no objections, may I consider that you approve the draft reso- lution submitted to the Conference by the Legal Committee and contained in Annex I of document 21 C/1147
10.4 The resolution is adopted.
11.1 The PRESIDENT: We shall now move to item 27.4 of our agenda - Draft amendment to the Statutesof the Intergovernmental Council of the International and Hydrological Programme,which, ladies and gentlemen, you will recall, was also referred to the Legal Com-mittee for examination.
11.2 I shall therefore once again invite the Chairman of the Legal Committee totake the floor to inform the Conference on the results of the Committee's work,as contained in its Fifth Report (document 21 C/115). Mr Tanguay, you have thefloor.
12. M. TANGUAY (Canada), président du Comité juridique.- Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, le Comité juri-dique a examiné cette question le 7 octobre dernier. Le Conseil intergouvernementaldu Programme hydrologique international avait demandé que l'article VII de sesStatuts soit amendé de manière que le président du Bureau sortant soit membre dedroit du nouveau Bureau. La question a été examinée par le Comité juridique qui, ala suite d'une proposition de la République fédérale d'Allemagne tendant à ce quele Conseil, lorsqu'il procède à l'élection d'un nouveau bureau, tienne compte duprésident sortant pour assurer une répartition géographique équitable, a décidé deproposer le libellé suivant pour ledit article VII des Statuts du Conseil : "Audébut de la première session suivant une session de la Conférence générale i la-quelle les élections au Conseil ont eu lieu, le Conseil élit un président et quatrevice-présidents qui, avec le président du Bureau précédent siégeant d'office, cons-tituent le Bureau du Conseil. La composition du Bureau ainsi établie devra reflé-ter une répartition géographique équitable." Le projet de résolution contenant laproposition du Comité juridique figure au paragraphe 8 du document 21 C/115. Jevous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
13.1 The PRESIDENT: I thank the Chairman of the Legal Committee. May I consider that the Confer-ence is ready to take note of the Fifth Report of the Legal Committee?
3Rages and gentlemen, as you have heard, the Committee recommends that theConference adopt the draft resolution which appears in paragraph 8 on page 2 ofdocument 21 C/115. If there are no objections, I shall consider this resolutionto be adopted.
13.4 The resolution is adopted. SECOND REPORT OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE/DEUXIEME RAPPORT DU COMITE JURIDIQUE/ SEGUNDO INFORME DEL COMITE JURIDICO/BTOPOH ДОКЛАД ЮРИДИЧЕСКОГО КОМИТЕТА/ plde dl ES /EAAMEXAE
14.1 The PRESIDENT: I shall now invite the Chairman of the Legal Committee to present to the Con- ference the Second Report of the Committee, contained in document 21 C/ 107, whichpertains to item 29 of our agenda.
14.2 This item concerns the initial special reports submitted by Member States onthe action taken by them on: the revised recommendation concerning international competitions in architecture and town-planning (document 21 C/22); the recommenda-tion for the protection of movable cultural property (document 21 C/23); the revised recommendation concerning the international standardization of educational statistics (document 21 C/24); and the recommendation concerning the internationalstandardization of statistics on science and technology (document 21. 6/25). AU these recommendations were adopted by the General Conference at its twentieth
14.3 Mr Tanguay, you have the floor.
15.1 M. TANGUAY (Canada), président du Comité juridique.- Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président cette question paraîtra sûrement très technique à un certain nombre de délégués. Je tiens donc à dire que le Comité juridique s'est penché sur ces questions avec beaucoup de soin et n'a constaté aucune évolution radicalement nouvelle de la situation par rapport aux sessions antérieures.
15.2 Le Comité juridique a donc examiné ces premiers rapports spéciaux en appli- cation de l'article 32, paragraphe 2 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence géné- rale. Il a constaté et regretté qu'en dépit de l'obligation qui leur en est faite par l'article VIII de l'Acte constitutif et l'article 16 du Règlement relatif aux recommandations aux Etats membres et aux conventions internationales prévues par l'article IV, paragraphe 4, de l'Acte constitutif, un grand nombre d'Etats n'avaient pas présenté les rapports requis.
15.3 Le Comité a longuement débattu de la question de savoir si cette situation n'était pas due en partie à la multiplicité des procédures relatives à l'applica- tion des instruments normatifs de l'Unesco et des organes intervenant dans ces procédures. Cette question a finalement fait l'objet d'un projet de résolution soumis à la Commission М - Questions générales relatives au programme (21 C/PRG.V/- DR.10) qui a été amendé en séance et aux termes duquel le Directeur général et le Conseil exécutif sont invités à entreprendre une étude de ces procédures et à en présenter les résultats, accompagnés de propositions appropriées, à la Conférence générale à sa vingt-deuxième session.
15.4 Le Comité juridique, quant à lui, a décidé de s'en tenir à sa pratique anté- rieure qui consistait à prendre note des rapports présentés par les Etats membres et à soumettre à la Conférence générale un projet de résolution portant adoption d'un rapport général dans lequel la Conférence générale, conformément à l'ar- ticle 18 du Règlement relatif aux recommandations aux Etats membres et aux conven- tions internationales prévues par l'article IV, paragraphe 4, de l'Acte constitu- tif, consigne ses observations sur la suite donnée par les Etats membres aux ins- truments normatifs adoptés: par la Conférence générale. C'est à l'unanimité que le Comité juridique est convenu de recommander à la Conférence générale d'adopter ce projet de résolution qui est en tous points semblable à ceux qui avaient été approuvés par la Conférence générale lors de ses précédentes sessions. Il figure dans l'Annexe I au document 21 C/107. Le projet de rapport général, qui contient essentiellement des considérations de caractère général fondées pour la plupart sur des observations formulées par la Conférence générale à ses précédentes ses- sions, figure à l'Annexe II.
15.5 Monsieur le Président, le Comité juridique est convenu en outre de recomman- der à l'unanimité à la Conférence générale d'adopter le projet de résolution qui figure dans l'Annexe III et par lequel il est rappelé aux Etats membres qu'ils devront présenter à la Conférence générale à sa vingt-deuxième session des rapports sur la suite donnée par eux aux recommandations qui auront été adoptées lors de la présente session et qui sont énumérées dans le projet de résolution. Comme au stade actuel des travaux de la Conférence, aucune décision définitive n'a encore été prise en ce qui concerne ces instruments, je vous suggère d'adopter ce projet de résolution étant entendu que la question serait soumise à nouveau à la Conférence générale au cas où l'un quelconque d'entre eux n'aurait pas été adopté. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
16.1 The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much, Mr Tanguay. May I consider that the Conference is ready to take note of the Second Report of the Legal Committee?
16.2 It is so decided.
16.3 Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard the Chairman of the Legal Committee recommend, in the Committee's name, that the Conference adopt the draft resolution contained in Annex I of document 21 C/107, which also provides for the adoption of the general report reproduced in Annex II of 21 C/107. Are there any objections?
16.4 The resolution is adopted.
16.5 Can we now turn to the resolution contained in Annex III of document 21 C/107, which refers to the submission by Member States, before the twenty-second session of the General Conference, of initial special reports on instruments adopted by this session of the General Conference.
16.6 Is there any opposition to/this proposal? I! see none.
16.7 The resolution is adopted.
16.8 I give the floor to the Chairman of the Legal Committee.
33 17. M. TANGUAY (Canada), président du Comité juridique.- Monsieur le Président, je vous remercie de m'avoir donné la parole encore une fois. Je voudrais tout simplement exprimer ma gratitude 3 tous les membres du Co- mité juridique qui ont fait un travail de très haute qualité. Je remercie aussi tous les Etats membres qui ont bien voulu me témoigner leur confiance en m'élisant au poste de président de ce Comité. Je tiens particulièrement à remercier le Secré- tariat, le Conseiller juridique et ses collaborateurs qui m'ont beaucoup aidé dans cette tâche parfois difficile. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
18.1 The PRESIDENT: Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank in your name the Chairman of the Legal Committee, Mr Tanguay, for his clear and enlightening presentation of the reports of his Committee, and to thank the members of the Committee for their excellent work.
18.2 We now come to the end of our work for this morning. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting rose at 11.05 a.m. La séance est levée à 11 h.05 Se levanta la sesión a las 11.05 Заседание закрывается в 11.05 LS Lor AeNT detJI cad)