Thirty-fifth plenary meeting
24 October 1980 at 10.30 a.m. President: Mr MARGAN (Yugoslavia) Trente-cinquième séance plénière
1.1 The PRESIDENT: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I declare open the thirty-fifth plenary meeting. Before we begin our work, I would remind you that today is the thirty- fifth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations Organization.
1.2 On this special occasion, I am happy to extend a warm welcome on your behalf to the representatives of the Yugoslav Clubs and Associations for the United Nations, and to express to them our pleasure at their presence among us today. REPORT OF PROGRAMME COMMISSION III: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION DU PROGRAMME III : RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS INFORME DE LA COMISION DEL PROGRAMA III: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES ДОКЛАД КОМИССИИ ПО ПРОГРАММЕ ТТТ: РЕЗОЛЮЦИИ И РЕКОМЕНДАЦИИ aesLN ENEN EINERARE: ANSEN
2.1 The PRESIDENT: Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now consider the report of Programme Commis- sion III =, Social Sciences-and their Applications,.which is-containedrin documents
21 C/118, 21 C/118 Addendum and Corrigendum and 21 C/118 Annex - Recommendations.
2.2 We also have before us a draft amendment to proposed resolution 3/0.1 con- tained in document 21 C/118 Annex - Recommendations. This will be found in document 21 C/PLEN/DR.16 submitted by the USSR.
2.3 I now invite the Chairman /of! Pnogramme Commissión ¡III , Mr Beshir Bakri, to resent the report of this Commission. ‘Mr Bakri, you have the floor. EIN eN etos, (vlag Jl) SSA and Y ‎ماعلارمتؤملاركشا yl» ‎لوألرقوملا pselesal LSÍ Life 4 зы! ‎ءليلجلاسيئرلاىديس ‎ديعصلاىلعتايدحتمولعلاهذههيفهجاوتتقوىفاهتاقيبطتوةيعامتجالامولعلاةنجللاسيئرىرايتخال eeCIE a* ‎مكدالب vÉ CLEANAAI ua1 a ‎ابي,مكتوص CME pol ‎ىنناو No
(3.1) M. BAKRI (Soudan), président de la Commission du programme III.- (Traduit de l'arabe.) 35 Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi, puisque je prends la parole pour la premiére fois devant votre auguste assemblée, de remercier la Conférence générale de m'avoir choisi comme président de la Commission des sciences sociales et de leurs applications à un moment où celles-ci doivent faire face & des défis sur les plans international, national et local.
(3.2) Je me joins a vous, Monsieur le Président, pour souhaiter la bienvenue aux repré- sentants de la jeunesse de votre pays. J'avais supprimé un paragraphe de mon intervention concernant la jeunesse mais je le rétablirai, en son honneur, lorsque j'aborderai ce sujet.
(3.3) Avant de vous exposer quelques aspects importants du rapport que la Commission III a adopté à l'unanimité ainsi que ses recommandations, permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, de vous présenter le bureau de cette Commission, composé de M. Tchavdar Kuranov (Bulgarie), de M. Ahoua Kangha (Côte d'Ivoire), de Mme Kazuko Inouë (Japon), de Mme Torild Skard (Nor- vège) et de Mme Maria de Los Angeles Lôpez Ortega (Mexique), rapporteur. C'est la première fois, Monsieur Te Président, que les femmes y sont majoritaires, peut-être en considération de la question de la condition féminine, qui sera évoquée dans notre rapport.
(3.4) La Commission a consacré, du 3 au 15 octobre, vingt-deux séances à l'examen du point 12 de l'ordre du jour, relatif au Projet de programme et de budget pour 1981-1983, et à l'examen du rapport préliminaire du Directeur général sur le Plan à moyen terme pour
1984-1989. La séance de l'après-midi du 21 octobre a été consacrée à l'approbation du rap- port de la Commission. Cette séance a donné lieu à plus de 300 interventions sur les unités 13319 dont l'examen nous avait été confié, sur le point 34 de I'‘ordre du jour et sur le document 21 C/4 relatif au deuxième Plan à moyen terme. Dans les délais qui nous étaient impartis par le calendrier des travaux, nous avons pu examiner 70 projets de réso- lution, sans devoir recourir à des séances de nuit mais en siégeant chaque jour jusqu'à
21 heures, selon le voeu non pas du président de la Commission mais de ses membres. En fait, nous devons notre succès à l'esprit de coopération, au sens élevé des responsabilités et à la discipline dont ont fait preuve les membres de la Commission.
(81.59 Monsieur le Président, il ne me sera pas facile de rendre compte succintement des débats de la Commission ou de son rapport et il me sera impossible de vous donner une idée de l'atmosphère laborieuse et de l'animation de ces débats et de la bonne humeur, du sérieux de l'entente dont ils ont été empreints, en dépit des divergences d'opinion, de la multiplicité des orientations et des oppositions idéologiques. Ne représentions- nous pas à nous tous un seul et même monde ?
(3.6) Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi maintenant de présenter le contenu du rapport, ce que je ferai en anglais, pour aller plus’ vite. (The speaker then continued in English.)
3.7 Mr President, during the last decade the General Conference has often expressed its concern about the high degree of dispersion of effort and resources in the social science programme, and has called for greater concentration and coherence. This dispersion was partly a result of the fact that the Sector for the Social Sciences did not exist when the objectives for the first Medium-Term Plan were established. Consequently, there was no set of objectives which could provide a clear focus for the concentration of the programme, in contrast with the situation as far as education and the natural sciences were concerned. The social science programme had to address as many as 20 objectives in the biennium that ends this year. For the last triennium of the current Plan, however, these objectives have been reduced to 14 and grouped in 7 areas of concentration. Social science special- ists throughout the world have cause to be grateful to the Director-General for hav- ing created in Unesco a special Sector for the Social Sciences and their Application.
3.8 Mr President, the Commission welcomes the greater degree of concentration and coherence in the proposed programme and budget, and unanimously recommends it for approval by the General Conference. It has also noted with satisfaction that efforts fully to implement, resolutions 20 C/3.01 and 3.02 will be pursued in the preparation of the second Medium-Term Plan.
3.9 Unesco's unique role within the United Nations system in the development of the social sciences was stressed, and the debates in the Commission reflected the increased concern of Member States with those aspects that improve basic knowledge and the applicability of such knowledge and skills to concrete problems in socie- ties and the world. There was general agreement that the social science programme should continue to address such problems at all levels, and to contribute to their claärtfication andssolutien.
3.10 In this context, Mr President, there was general agreement that the endogen- ous development of the social sciences in the Third World should receive the high- est priority. The building up of national and regional capabilities in the Third World is urgently needed to enable these societies to analyse and solve their own problems in independent and autonomous ways, and to enable the Third World to co- operate on more equal terms at the international level. Redressing the current serious imbalance in the distribution of social science knowledge and skills is a prerequisite for the full utilization and application of the social sciences to concrete problems in the Third World and for the establishment of a new order of balances.
35 3.11 It was furthermore agreed that balance is required between the use of the social sciences for purposes of broad interpretation of social processes and prob- lems, and their "operational" application to more specific purposes.
3.12 The role and place of philosophy should be affirmed and clarified, both | within the social science programme and in the wider context of the Organization's programme, in which it should gain a more clear-cut identity and greater cohesion.
3.13 The Commission was particularly satisfied with the subprogramme on the study and planning of development. It is worth noting the importance accorded to the instrumental activities of the social sciences concerned with methods and instru- ments of socio-economic analysis and development planning. There was virtual con- sensus that endogenous, integrated development centred on man should be the focus of Unesco's efforts in this area. Much work remains to be done to clarify the concept and to determine the conditions for its successful achievement in specific situations. It was suggested that it might be the subject of a future interna- tional programme that would provide a framework within which systematic"éfforts at the national and regional levels could be co-ordinated and knowledge and experience could be exchanged. Such aspects as the role of exogenous factors, self-reliance, the new international economic order and the impact of transnational corporations are major aspects that require further in-depth study and concerted action.
3.14 In this context in particular, although the point is valid for the programme as a whole, it was stressed that programme implementation should make provision for the direct involvement of individuals and institutions in the society in which aprojsct is carried our. Booted: In the Specifies Of their own society and cul- ture, they can provide the essential endogenous element in the design, management and execution of such projects.
3.15 The discussion on human rights and peace reflected a lively interest on the part of most delegations in this important subprogramme. Strong stress was laid on the need to strengthen the capacities of Third World countries in this area, particularly with respect to human rights education. An outstanding feature of the debate was the call from all parts of the world for increased efforts towards the elimination of apartheid, racism and the massive violation of human rights.
3.16 There was general agreement that the resources allocated to the subprogrammes on the role of women and youth were inadequate to meet the needs of societies to improve the involvement and participation of these populations, which constituted a majority in all societies, in the conduct of their affairs and the solution of their problems. Women and youth were seen as key populations that have a vital role to play, not only in the life of their societies, but also at the interna- tional level in the search for solutions to global problems, particularly-an Unesco's programme. Unesco's pamphlet on the problems of youth in the 1980s was accepted and welcomed and there was complete agreement on the action planned for the; 1980s. iny favour of -vouth.
3.17 Another concern of the Commission that should be noted was the need for greater interdisciplinarity in closer co-operation with Unesco's other fields of competence. In particular, close co-operation was suggested: firstly, with the natural sciences in the areas of science and technology for development, relations between science and society and the human environment, notably the MAB programme; secondly, with human rights and disarmament education and training activities related to environmental and population problems; thirdly, with culture and com- munication in respect of cultural identity, participation in cultural life, the development of culture and communication and the role of communication in society; fourthly, with all other fields of competence in the areas of rural development and the role of women and youth.
3.18 Mr President, on Wednesday 8 October, when considering the preliminary report on the Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989, the Commission had the honour to be addressed by the Director-General who had come to the meeting especially to express his views on the Organization's future programme orientation with regard to the social sciences and to say how important the social sciences are for Unesco.
3.19 In Commission III we realized that a discussion on the place of the social sciences in the second Medium-Term Plan of Unesco must start with the recognition of their unique place and role in the Organization. Their role is unique for two reasons. The first is that social science knowledge and skills are essential ele- ments in the achievement of Unesco's purposes. It has often been said that the social, and, of course, we might add the human, sciences, as the Director-General proposed, must form the core of Unesco's programme. (The Director-General pro- posed to add "the human sciences" and I am adding "the core of Unesco's programme". ) One cannot analyse and understand culture and communication, education and science as human activities and their role in society without the tools and skills of the social sciences. These must permeate the entire programme of Unesco and form the
1314   seed-bed from which the work of its other fields of competence will grow and bear fruit. The second reason, Mr President, is that Unesco, having recognized this central role of the social sciences, assumes sole responsibility at the interna- tional level within the United Nations system for the development of the social sciences and their application to major world problems within its fields of competence:
3.20 The place and role of the social sciences within Unesco must therefore be seen ‘as’ threefold. "First of all, there is the application and utilization of social science knowledge and skills in all the fields of competence of the Organi- zation to analyse and understand the social and cultural aspects of the phenomena and problems arising in these fields. In this respect, the social sciences perme- ate, as the Director-General said, the entire programme of the Organization.
3.21 ‘Secondly, there is the application and utilization of the socialisciences in the search for solutions to major world problems that are predominantly socio- cultural, socio-political or socio-economic in nature. These problems, such as human rights and individual freedoms, peace and disarmament, endogenous develop- ment and a new world order, also involve the other fields of competence of Unesco, but their understanding and solution basically require a social science approach and focus that can best be achieved through a distinct social science programme.
3.22 Thirdly, both these types of application require the development of the social sciences themselves to provide the basic knowledge and skills on which such applications must depend. In the development of these sciences, proper attention must be paid to all the essential functional aspects: concept, theory and metho- dology development, infrastructure and institution building, appropriate profes- sional training, improvement of methods and processes of application, philosophi- cal reflection and information exchange and networking. But, in the development of these functional aspects, priorities must be determined by the pressing needs for better knowledge, tools and skills to solve concrete social problems from the global to the national, and indeed to the local, level.
3.23 The development of these sciences must be oriented towards improving the capacity of people, at all levels and in all parts of the world, to understand their own situation and problems and to seek and work out solutions to these prob- lems in independent and self-reliant ways, and to avoid, if possible, the crises which we all know of. It is for this reason that the present imbalance in the distribution of social science knowledge and skills in the world is of such central concern to Unesco. Commission III recognized this concern by recommending that priority be given within the social science programme to the development of these sciences in the Third World, to enable the Third World to ‘analyse and understand its situation better and to co-operate on a more equal basis at the international level.
3.24 Finally, Mr President, the Commission suggested two ways in which this could be done. First, the Commission strongly favoured the definition in the second Medium-Term Plan of a set of objectives that would clearly articulate the special contribution that the social science programme would be required to make to the achievement of the Organization's purposes and to the solution of major world problems. These objectives should be few, and they should allow for the develop- ment of the social sciences to be closely integrated with the analysis of prob- lems and the search for solutions. Second, the structure by objectives of the second Medium-Term Plan should facilitate concentrated and concerted programme development. It should, for example, allow for the possible development of an international programme based on the social sciences, but involving the other fields of competence of Unesco. Endogenous, integrated development centred on man was mentioned as a possible subject for such a programme. The structure of the second Plan should also permit and facilitate the integration of the pro- gramme around certain main themes or axes. Finally, it should permit and facili- tate the establishment of major projects of the type introduced in the natural science programme at this session.
3.25 Mr President, several other concerns of the Commission are reflected in the draft resolution on the second Medium-Term Plan, which the Commission approved and referred to a working group for integration into the document prepared fc: con- sideration by the plenary. But the central concerns which I have highlichted here constitute perhaps the principal basis for the Commission's recommendatic” that the social sciences be given higher priority in the second Medium-Term Plan. With- out such priority the social science programme cannot be expected to achieve its full potential in its crucial role within the Organization. During the 1980s, this role will become even more essential and urgent than in the past, as we wrestle with increasingly complex and serious global problems which are indisputably social, political, economic and cultural in their main components.
3.26" In conclusion, MP'President, permit me to say that it has indeed been a great privilege and honour to have chaired the deliberations of Programme Commission III,
1315    which was composed of an outstanding group of men and women representing the social sciences and humanities throughout the world.
3.27 I am pleased, Sir, to report that all our resolutions were accepted in a package deal, and that they were all accepted unanimously. Thank you, Mr President. The PRESIDENT: Ladies and gentlemen, on your behalf, I should like to thank the Chairman of Programme Commission III, Mr Beshir Bakri, for his excellent presentation of the report which we have before us. I wish to thank him particularly for having brought to the attention of the Conference the essential points examined by the Commission and for the quality of the Commission's work.
4.2 I wish to invite you now, in accordance with the practice of the Conference, to take note of the report of Programme Commission III as set out in documents
21 C/118 and 21 C/118 Addendum and Corrigendum.
4.3 Since there are no objections, I consider that the General Conference takes note of this report. Thank you very much. Resolutions
4.4 We shall now consider the Commission's recommendations which appear in docu- ment 21 C/118 Annex - Recommendations, with the corrections initiated on pages 5 andibiof document: 21 C/118 Addisand: Corr. Resolution 3/0.1
4.5 We have before us proposed resolution 3/0.1 which appears: on: pages-y tos7r'of the English text and is followed by the Commission's recommendation on the budget- ary appropriation for Chapter 3 which we shall deal with at a later stage. We have first to consider the draft amendment to proposed resolution 3/0.1 contained in document 21 C/PLEN/DR.16, and I should like to invite the delegate of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic to introduce this draft amendment.
(5.1) M. RECHETNIAK (République socialiste soviétique d'Ukraine).- (Traduit du russe.) Monsieur le Président, ma délégation souhaiterait avant tout apporter quelques éclair- cissements concernant le projet d'amendement contenu dans le document 21 C/PLEN/DR.16.
(5.2) Cet amendement ne comprend aucune proposition nouvelle : il a pour seul objet de rétablir une disposition qui figurait dans la résolution 3/0.1 telle qu'elle avait été présentée par le Directeur général dans le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1981-1983 (chapitre III, par. 3002) et qui s'est trouvée éliminée du texte final à la suite d'un cer- tain nombre de difficultés intervenues dans la Commission III au moment de l'examen de la version révisée de ce projet de résolution.        elles m'obligent aussi à demander que notre amendement fasse l'objet d'un vote par appel nominal, afin que la situation soit parfaitement claire en ce qui concerne cette importante guestion.de principe.
6.1 Me PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and I have the fee ing that we can perhaps adopt this proposal without difficulty.
6.2 The delegate of Czechoslovakia has the floor.
7.1 Mr SMID (Czechoslovakia): Thank you, Mr President. Mr Pres. lent, my delegation attaches particular importance to the World Congress on Disarmament Education which was convened by Unesco in Paris in June this year, and our interest was reflected in the active participation of Czechoslovakia in its preparation. May I, moreover, be permitted to recall that the preparatory meeting of experts was held in Prague in June 1979 and that its deliberations were addressed by the distinguished Director-General of our Organization.
7.2 My delegation supports the draft amendment submitted by the USSR, the Ukrainian SSR and the Byelorussian SSR, and also supports the proposal that a voterbeatakenbyvroll-call Thank you, Sir.
(9) M. AL-ARRAYED (Bahrein) .- (Traduit de l'arabe.) Monsieur le Président, le délégué de l'Ukraine vient d'indiquer que le Directeur général a supervisé l'organisation et la tenue de ce congrès. Si le Directeur général voulait bien nous fournir quelques éclaircissements sur ce congrès et sur ses principales recommandations, nous lui en saurions gré ; peut-être nous aidera-t-il ainsi à prendre position sur la question. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. VOE The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Bahrain, and I give the floor to the Director-General. Il. Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL. - Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais répondre à la question qui a été posée par le délégué de Bahrein. Comme l'a fait remarquer tout à l'heure le délégué de l'Ukraine, j'ai eu moi-même à exposer, devant l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, à sa dixième session extraordinaire, ce que l'Unesco pourrait faire en matière de désarmement, et j'avais suggéré qu'elle s'oriente, en ce qui la concerne, vers des actions de caractère éducatif.
11.2 L'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies ayant adopté une résolution par la- quelle elle faisait écho à la déclaration que j'avais faite, j'ai été amené, après avoir rendu compte au Conseil exécutif, à organiser un Congrès mondial sur l'éduca- tion pour le désarmement. A ce congrès, à la différence de la pratique habituelle, assistaient non seulement des personnalités qui ont vocation à connaître des pro- blèmes de l'éducation relative au désarmement, mais aussi des représentants de certains gouvernements. Il en avait d'ailleurs été ainsi quand il s'était agi d'or- ganiser un Congrès international sur l'enseignement des droits de l'homme.
11.3 Les recommandations formulées par le Congrès mondial sur l'éducation pour le désarmement m'ayant paru judicieuses, j'ai donc proposé, au paragraphe 3 (e) de la résolution générale 3/0.1 relative au chapitre des sciences sociales, de favoriser le développement de l'éducation en faveur du désarmement "conformément aux recom- mandations formulées par le Congrès mondial tenu & ce sujet en 1980". Or, cette partie de la résolution générale n'a pas été adoptée par la Commission III, pour des raisons qui n'ont peut-être pas assez pris en considération la nature exacte et la portée de ce congrès. Il va donc de soi que si le projet de résolution 21 C/ PLEN/DR.16 présenté notamment par l'Ukraine est adopté, il pourra en être tenu compte dans l'élaboration des activités de l'Organisation en matière d'éducation relative au désarmement et je voudrais remercier, pour ma part, la délégation de l'Ukraine d'avoir pris l'initiative de demander à la Conférence générale de reve- nir à une proposition que le Directeur général avait formulée dans le Projet de programme et budget. Mon souhait le plus cher est que la Conférence générale adopte cette proposition. Cela nous permettrait de poursuivre l'étude de l'en- semble des travaux du Congrès, ainsi que de ses recommandations, et de réfléchir à la suite qui pourrait être donnée à ces recommandations dans les différentes acti- vités à mener en matière d'éducation relative au désarmement. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
121 The PRESIDENT: I thank the Director-General.
12.2 Ladies and gentlemen, if you are satisfied with the explanation provided by the Director-General, and if no other delegate wishes to speak on this matter, may I propose that we adopt the proposed amendment without a vote.
12.3 Than: you very. much. Tt. is. sc.decided.
12.4 Ladies and gentlemen, may I take it that the Conference is now ready to adopt proposed resolution 3/0.1 on pages 1-7 of document 21 C/118 Annex - Recommendations, as amended? I would remind you that the text corresponds to that appearing in paragraph 3002 of document 21 C/5, as amended by Programme Commission III during its deliberations. Thank you.
12.5 The resolution, as amended, is adopted. Resolutions relating to objectives 1.1, 1.5/2.3, 25050373 and Ep Een t34
12.6 We now turn to the resolutions proposed by Programme Commission III on pages 8-15 of document 21 C/118 Annex - Recommendations. Does any delegate wish to speak?
12.7 The delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany has the floor.
13.1 Mr WITTE (Federal Republic of Germany) : Mr President, IT"would like to raise а point concerning the draft resolution underiund til 7, objective 2/1, on pages 10 and 11 of document 21 C/118 Annex - Recommendations.
13.2 Under objective 2.1, it is proposed that Unesco participate in the celebra- tion of the quincentenary of the birth of Martin Luther which occurs in 1983. My delegation would most warmly welcome such a decision, believing that the contribu- tion of Martin Luther to the history of mankind was indeed a very valuable one, worthy of regard by our Organization.
13.3: mote, Mr President that according to operative paragraph 3 of the draft resolution, Unesco is called upon to co-sponsor an international scientific con- ference in the German Democratic Republic on - and I quote - "The theological, cultural, social and political dimensions of Martin Luther's work and heritage".
13.4;;But, Mx President, turning to document 21 C/118 Add. and Corr., page, I find that the working theme of this conference has been altered to read "Martin Luther in the conception of history of the Socialist German nation".
13.5 Mr President, my delegation considers this text to be totally unacceptable. There is no "Socialist German nation", as everybody knows; moreover, if the heritage of Martin Luther is to be considered at an international scientific con- ference under the co-sponsorship of Unesco, I do not believe it fitting to confine the topic of such a conference to. a purely national aspect.
13.6 In the circumstances, my delegation proposes that the initial wording of the proposed resolution be retained.
13.7 Let me make it clear, Mr President, that my delegation fully welcomes the co-sponsorship of Unesco of a conference in the German Democratic Republic.:i:This is not the problem. The problem is that the title under which Unesco as an inter- national organization is to co-sponsor this event should reflect the Organization's international mission. Thank you, Mr President.
14. The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany, and I give the floor to the Director-General.
15. Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL.- Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais formuler des réserves au sujet du paragraphe 3 du dispositif du projet de résolution relatif a l'objec- tif 2.1, qui figure à la page 13 du document soumis à l'appréciation de la Confé- rence générale. Jusqu'ici, parmi toutes les résolutions adoptées en vue de célébra- tions d'anniversaires, aucune n'avait jamais chargé l'Unesco de participer à la préparation et au déroulement d'une conférence scientifique organisée par un Etat membre. L'Organisation, jusqu'ici, prenait l'initiative d'organiser une conférence scientifique sur tel ou tel aspect de l'oeuvre de telle ou telle personnalité. Elle en avait la responsabilité intégrale, sur le plan technique comme sur le plan politique, au sens où les problèmes d'ordre culturel, historique ou autre peuvent avoir des incidences politiques. C'est, à ma connaissance, la première fois que    l'on demande à l'Organisation de participer à la préparation et au déroulement d'une conférence scientifique organisée par une instance gouvernementale sans pré- ciser quelles seraient la nature et la portée de cette participation de l'Unesco. Il serait peut-être possible de demander au Directeur général de l'Organisation de s'associer à toutes les activités qui seraient menées dans le cadre de la célébra- tion de l'anniversaire d'une personnalité, mais la Conférence générale irait à mon avis beaucoup trop loin si elle prenait une telle décision sans en avoir mesuré toutes les implications, sans avoir déterminé avec exactitude quelle est la portée exacte des problèmes qui seront soulevés dans une conférence de cette nature. Je fais donc, en ce qui me concerne, les plus expresses réserves quant à la teneur de ce paragraphe 3 du dispositif du projet de résolution relatif à l'objectif 2.1. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
1604 The PRESIDENT: I thank the Director-General, and I now give the floor to the delegate of the German Democratic Republic.
17.1 Mr GRUMBACH (German Democratic Republic): Mr President, the delegation of the German Democratic Republic considers that the statement by the distinguished delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany is in contradiction with the political realities in Europe as they have developed since the Second World War. My delegation holds the view that the existence of two sovereign and independent German states and two German nations of a completely different nature is an undoubted fact. But this is certainly not an issue which falls within the competence of the General Conference. ¥7L25 Mays 1. points out; Mr President ,iichatitthe: teXtiiofictthe proposed resolution we are considering, which is based on the original proposal by the German Democratic Republic in document 21 C/DR.197, was adopted after very lengthy discussion in the Commission during which the delegate of the German Democratic Republic stated - and I reaffirm here - that we are fully prepared to take account of the note by the Director-General in document 21 C/DR.197, that äs to say our original proposal. This is why my delegation cannot agree to the proposal by the delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany. Thank you, Mr President.
18. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Director-General.
19.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL.- Monsieur le Président, je me demande pour ma part si la Conférence générale ne pourrait pas supprimer le paragraphe 3 du dispositif du projet de résolution et je suggérerais de rédiger tout simplement le paragraphe 2 de la façon suivante : "Invite le Directeur général à prendre les mesures nécessaires pour favoriser la commémoration du cinquième centenaire de la naissance de Martin Luther." Il va de soi que pour ce faire, le Directeur général mettra en oeuvre tous les moyens qu'il jugera les plus appropriés. Cela veut dire non seulement que l'Organisation appor- tera l'appui de ses services d'information à cette célébration mais également que si un Etat membre quelconque, et notamment la République démocratique allemande, organise des manifestations de quelque nature que ce soit, l'Organisation s'asso- ciera bien volontiers à ces manifestations.
19.2 En revanche, Monsieur le Président, il serait difficile à la Conférence géné- rale de décider que l'Unesco participera à la préparation et au déroulement d'une conférence scientifique sur "les dimensions théologiques, culturelles, sociales et politiques de l'oeuvre de Martin Luther et de son héritage" sans savoir quelles seront la nature exacte et la portée des thèmes qui y seront évoqués. Une telle décision créerait à mon avis un grave précédent. J'ajoute que mon raisonnement serait le même pour tout congrès, de quelque nature que ce soit, organisé par un Etat membre.
19.3 Je dois dire que si le paragraphe 3 est supprimé et le paragraphe 2 amendé dans le sens que j'ai indiqué, cela ne nous empêchera nullement de nous associer à toutes les activités qui pourront être menées dans le monde pour célébrer le cin- quième centenaire de la naissance de Martin Luther.
20.1 The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much, Mr Director-General. I believe that these suggestions by the Director-General may be acceptable. I see no objections to them.
20.2 Does the General Conference wish to adopt the draft resolution appearing under discussion unit 17, objective 2.1, as amended by the Director-General?
203 I see it does. Thank you very much. The draft resolution, as amended, is adopted.
20747 gave the Flcor torthe delegate of the German Democratic Republic.
21. Mr GRUMBACH (German Democratic Republic): "hank you, Mr Chairman. In a spirit of consensus and in the interests of fruitful co-operation at our General Conference, I did not oppose the suggestion made by the Director-General; but I should like to make clear our reservations concerning the deletion of the third operative paragraph since in our opinion it is the sovereign right of a state to fix the working theme of a conference organ- ized at the expense of that Member State. Thank you very much.
228 he PRESIDENT: Thank you very much for your explanation. I believe the Director-General would like to add a comment.
23. Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL.- Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je souhaite simplement dire que je suis parfaite- ment d'accord avec le représentant de la République démocratique allemande sur le fait que cet Etat est libre d'organiser une conférence et de l'intituler comme il lui plaît.
23.2 Le morent venu, nous verrons comment l'Organisation pourra éventuellement participer à la célébration du cinquième centenaire de la naissance de Martin Luther et quelle pourra être la nature de cette participation.
24.1 The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much, Mr Director-General.
24.2 Ladies and gentlemen, I think we car now deal with the other draft resolu- tions, namely those appearing under discussion unit 13 - objective 3.3, discussion unit l7;—Objectivesii .ldahd& 15/2 3," discussidrunrit 10 =! objective 6.0, and item 34 of the agenda which appear on pages 8 to 15 of the English text of docu- ment 21 C/118 Annex - Recommendations. The draft resolution under discussion unit
17 - objective 2.1 has already been adopted.
24.3 If there are no objections, I shall consider that these draft resolutions are adopted by the General Conference.
24.4 Thank you very much. They are adopted. Budgetary appropriation for Chapter 3 - Social Sciences
24.5 May we now turn to the budgetary appropriation which the Commission approved by consensus and which it unanimously recommends for adoption by the General Con- ference? An amount of US $23,476,600 is foreseen for Chapter 3 for 1981-1983 (page 7 of document 21 C/118 Annex - Recommendations). Are there any objections?
24.6 Since there are no objections, I consider that the 3eneral Conference approves thic budgetary appropriation.
24.7 Ladies and gentlemen, we have now concluded our examination of the report of Programme Commission III.
24.8 Are there any other questions you wish to raise, any comments you wish to make or any «dditional proposals you wish to put forward? I see that no delega- tion wishes .> take the floor. So, thank you very much. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting rose at 11.30 a.m. La séance est levée a 11 h.30 Se levanta la sesión a las 11.30 Заседание закрывается B 11.30 احابص‏Unيفةسلجلاتعفر в  ‎خبرازج3111هج