Thirty-eighth plenary meeting
27 Octoberiil980 at: 3.15pm. President: Mr MARGAN (Yugoslavia) Trente-huitième séance plénière
19804 10H 27H T4F3H154 E: DARHAAE (ULA)
1.151 The PRESIDENT: Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the thirty-eighth plenary meeting open.
(2.1) Mr ARAFAT (Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Palestine Liberation Organization) (Translation from the Arabic): Mr President, distinguished delegates. It is a source of happiness both for the Executive Committee of the Palestine Liberation Organization and for me personally that our Palestinian Arab people are participating in this twenty-first session of Unesco's General Conference. The Conference is being held in this beautiful capital of the Social- ist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, whose late President, the great Josip Broz Tito, to- gether with his associates who assumed responsibility after him for shaping the principles of the Non-Aligned Movement, helped to strengthen the role of the United Nations Organiza- tion, adhering closely as it does to its international Charter and to its resolutions and declarations affirming the legitimacy of human rights.
(2.2) As I stand here before you, I am honoured to repeat, on behalf of our Palestinian people and their revolution, the most solemn assurances of honour, respect and esteem for the late President Tito. He was a friend who will never be forgotten by our people or by any of the peoples resisting injustice and aggression and fighting for justice and peace. I am quite sure that Tito's thought and practice will remain as a beacon to guide all future generations in their legitimate struggles on behalf of the eternal values of mankind everywhere.
(2.3) Furthermore, Mr President, it gives me great pleasure to congratulate you on the con- fidence which this Conference has shown in you by electing you its President. I myself am sure that your wisdom and knowledge and the qualities of leadership which you possess are an adequate guarantee of the success of this Conference and the adoption of the resolutions which “it is to be hoped will emerge from it.
(274 This is also an opportunity for me to congratulate theTDirvector=-General Mr Anadou- Mahtar M'Bow, on the occasion of his re-election. This is an event which comes as it were as an echo to his excellent record and praiseworthy efforts in directing the affairs of this cultural organizérion. Unesco, in fact "isto he recokned one of the nost important international agencies in the United Nations system in terms of its effective impact on, and major "role in, “the building of "the edifice of "¢iviTization, "culture and "education. There can be no doubt, Sir, that you and the experts who are your colleagues have attempted sin- cerely, in the course of the past years, to deal with the problems of mankind in the con- text of this Organization's noble goals, working in complex and swiftly changing circum- stances and amid the cloud of uncertainty which continues to envelop relations between cultures, civilizations and nations.
(2.5) Mr President, distinguished delegates. "I should also like to take this opportunity to remind you of the efforts which the non-aligned group of nations is currently making in using its good offices to stop the bloodshed and end the fighting currently taking place on the border between Iraq and Iran. The Co-ordination Bureau of the Non-Aligned States was able to hold a session at the United Nations which was attended by the delegates of both Irag and Iran, and at that meeting it was agreed to set up a fact-finding committee and to devote every possible effort to the settlement of this weighty and important matter which affects the peace and security of the Near East, to say nothing of Europe, Africa, Asia, and indeed the entire world.
(2.6) We should like to tell you that because of its importance, this questions has been and is at the top of the agenda in our discussions with our brothers and comrades, the Yugoslav leaders. It is the chief focus of the joint efforts we are making through our membership of the Co-ordination Bureau of the Non-Aligned Movement, and we take our cue from the historic leading role played by that movement in safeguarding the independence of various peoples and preserving the peace and security of all mankind.
(2.7) Furthermore, on this occasion I must note the appeal made by the Director-General, Dr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, for an end to the fighting and the bloodshed. This appeal was quite in keeping with his position and responsibilities.
(2.8) Mr President, distingusihed delegates. In the course of the past fifty years the world has achieved as much in the way of material, scientific and technological progress as anyone could ever have imagined. It has now reached the point where it possesses the ability to make a great cultural and scientific leap, or a series of them, for the bene- fit of all mankind. However, the pre-condition for this dream to come true is that these immense capabilities shall be directed towards the achievement of peace among nations, and such a peace is, and can only be, based on the principles of freedom, justice, equality, and whatever else is conducive to the advancement and full development of all peoples. Otherwise peace becomes a matter of mere military force, advantageous to the side which wields such force, and imposed at the expense of the oppressed peoples which do not.
(2.9) At present the world possesses enough technological resources to enable it to mul- tiply the material potential of life dozens of times over. It also possesses an unprece- dented communication system, so that no corner of the earth is cut off from the rest, and even ordinary individuals now have the chance to watch things happening thousands of miles away at the same moment. In addition, the world has made a quantitative leap as regards the preservation of knowledge. This field was restricted, for thousands of years, to human memories and the few written books, with all that that situation implied in terms of loss, damage and forgetfulness. Now, in contrast, it is possible, as you all know, to preserve our heritage and the details of the present, and to transmit, publish and circulate them in every corner of the earth, thanks to new technological capabilities which, as we have seen, constitute a quantitative leap serving to ensure the preservation and protection of cultures and civilizations - indeed, imparting a qualitative acceleration in the field of civilization and the entire human heritage.
(2.10) It would be pleasant to be able to say that these achievements had proceeded in such a way that their blessings had been poured out upon all mankind, bringing the human community nearer to the realization of its dreams and enabling it to establish a world society ruled by brotherhood, love, justice and peace. ‘Alas, that has not. happened. The world about us, despite its abundant potential, is riddled with tensions, struggles, prob- lems, rioting, warfare and misuse of its potential, in addition to pollution, disintegra- tion and processes of extinction which are not restricted to some particular human group, as used to be the case, but have now widened to include new forms of extinction affecting cultures, civilizations and spiritual life. Is it not strange that our world should pos- sess all these immense capabilities and yet at the same time be afflicted with an increase in the numbers of refugees, the illiterate, the hungry, those who have been driven from their homes, the sick, those who are denied the opportunity to work, or even the most ele- mentary chance of leading a human life in dignity?
(2.11) Mr President, distinguihsed delegates. When the United Nations Organization was founded, mankind looked forward eagerly to the prospect of this international agency's working to bring nations closer together and establish equality among them, unifying efforts in the interests of the prosperity and progress of mankind. And with the foundation of your Organization, of which we are proud to be a member, there was an upsurge of optimism at the prospect that it would play an effective and judicious role in rooting the human heritage in fraternity, justice and peace. Independence struggles used to take place under two watchwords - freedom and dignity. In recent years these concepts have come to be more clearly defined. The freedom sought is not merely the political freedom of the homeland, and the justice sought is not merely social justice within each homeland. On the contrary, freedom also includes, and must necessarily include, freedom of culture, freedom of thought, and freedom of the pen. And justice must also include the absence of aggression against peoples' cultures and the necessity of preserving and safeguarding them, for culture in the fullest sense is not the possession of any people or nation or community, but - in the fullest and most comprehensive sense - it is the heritage of the human race who inhabit this planet, and consequently it belongs to us all.
(2.12) I have no doubt, Mr President and distinguished delegates, that your Conference has observed that problems are not limited to their political aspects, and famines do not come to a stop when the shortage of food is remedied. It is shocking that we should con- tinue to see in the world today cultural dominance, racial despotism, educational and employment famines, and exterminations that leave neither stones nor men.
(2.13) It is strange that, at this time, when the means of cultural unification and the opportunities for mutual understanding have increased in strength and concentration, the world is facing a crisis of fragmentation and is experiencing sharp struggles totally at variance with what had been expected to be the fruit of this technological evolution. This, gentlemen, cannot be a coincidence. Regardless of the claims made by some thinkers concerned to defend colonialism, racial hegemony and racists, it is not true that newly independent peoples fall to quarrelling among themselves after gaining their political freedom. Such quarrelling is not in the interests of the peoples concerned. It is the outcome of colonial neglect which has continued for centuries, leaving the people in question - especially in Asia, Africa and Latin America - in a state of dire want, de- prived of all the necessities of health and education and everything they need for their development. Similarly, this fragmentation and quarrelling we are speaking about are un- questionably the result of a profoundly evil design on the part of the dominant groups - imperialist, Fascist, Zionist and racist - to retain their privileges and profits, extend their areas of exploitation, ensure their perpetuation and dominance over their subject peoples, and strengthen their monopolies. These forces make use of their possession of gigantic material forces to sow the seeds of dissension among peoples, announcing (living as they do by war) that they will continue to make war through proxies and agents who pay the price of weapons and offer up the souls and the blood of their people, while treasuries old and new are gorged with the sweat and blood of these peoples.
(2.14) Can we forget those unfortunate wretches who died or were killed in gold mines, diamond mines or even coal mines? Can we forget the slave ships in which, and as a result of which, millions of the children of Africa died - people who had committed no crime, but were victims of an imperialist assault which went under the name of the "civilizing" or    "humanizing" of Africa. The real purpose, of course, was to exploit these people for forced 38 labour, as slaves, in the plantations which had recently been opened up at that time.
(2.15) Can we forget how many countries saw their national economies destroyed and found themselves restricted to agrilculture alone, so that the factories of the others could con- tinue to work, and so that those countries which were afflicted with imperialism, this strange kind of imperialism, could be turned into plantations to supply those factories with raw materials, with the result that the balanced structure of their economies was destroyed?
(2.16) Can we forget the Yankee domination, and how many Red Indians were killed, by unjust aggression, as a result? Can we forget how many Incas, Mayas and Aztecs perished in order to swell the loot of the imperialists at the expense of those unfortunate peoples?
(2.17) This review of imperialism and imperialists, colonialism and colonialists, is the story of the domination of the white man, who has ruined everything to which he has set his hand, even unto the very air of this planet of ours, heedless of the future of all our children.
(2.18) A number of international conferences have observed recently that the forces which possess the dominant technological resources in the field of information transfer are continuing to practice imperialism in a new form. They it is who establish their values and then impose them, inescapably, upon their listeners and viewers. They keep silent about the values of small, poor peoples, so it is as if they had no roots, no civi- lization, no culture, exactly as the master, in the distant past, used to stamp the slave with his own mark and call him by his name. And while mankind has succeeded in eliminating slavery throughout the world, yet it still faces the battle for the elimination of cultural and social slavery worldwide. The clearest example of this is provided by the senior mem- bers of the Government of the United States of America, who make no secret of their deter- mination to, as they put it, "Americanize" the world and export their way of life to other, poor peoples in an effort to dominate them culturally, using force if necessary.
(2229) Itemay:- happen; inithes polit icals world; thatistrengthiiisi reckonedsin termsiofithe material potential or size of this people or that, or in terms of the weapons and means of destruction which they possess, although such a criterion is improper and to be openly condemned, at the very least. Nevertheless, relations of culture and civilization can stand only on a footing of absolute equality. Absolute equality. This is why mankind has been willing to make sacrifices for the sake of the freedom of belief, thought and opinion as a basis for the freedom of nations. And what is a nation? A nation is nothing other than a melting pot of culture and a framework for the civilization of people and things to- gether with their symbols, roots of which go back thousands of years and which are the re- sult of many costly experiences. It would be repetitive for us to affirm that without political freedom, nations can have no cultural freedom and no opportunity to learn or to build a civilization, for the two are complementary.
(2.20) Mr President, distinguished delegates. The cause of tension in our world are many, but one of the most important of them is the colonialist's persistent refusal to respect the cultures of other peoples, together with that cultural fanaticism in favour of the colo- nialist's own culutre, backed as it is with the might of his weapons - that culture which is imposed by force, and with all that flows from it in terms of tragedy, pain and suffer- ing, and the spread of fanaticism, racism, Fascism, hegemony and exploitation.
(2.21) Palestine, gentlemen, is in that position, confronted with racism. It represents a unique case, for Palestine possesses special importance as a result of its situation, first as the crossroads of three continents - Asia, Africa and Europe - and secondly as the recipient of divine favour in being the cradle of the three monotheistic religions, Christianity, Judaism and Islam. It has consequently contributed and added substantially to the treasure-house of the human heritage by reason of its cultural interaction, religious tolerance and dealings with all manner of mankind, from pilgrims and caravans to merchants and wayfarers. Palestine has a long history, as is attested not only by the writings of historians and travellers but also by the sacred scriptures and the descriptions of the land and its people and their culture which we find there. During Palestine's interaction with the successive ages of history, both ancient and modern, it has always and forever given proof of the truth of these creative emotional feelings, for there has been no prophet or apostle who did not pass through it or was not born in it. And we now find that the ene- mies of Palestine, the enemies of the people of Palestine, the enemies of the people of all mankind, are falsifying both these divine signs and the historical record, and claiming persistently that Palestine was a desolate, unpopulated wasteland when the Zionist colonists attacked it, drove out its people and settled on their land. Not only that, but they claim falsely that the culture is their culture, the land their land and the heritage their heri- tage. Gentlemen, has there ever been a fouler act of theft or a lie that was a more mon- strous affront to human thought and human civilization than this?
(2.22) Nor is Palestine's importance restricted to its historical, cultural and human aspects. No, there is also the fact that Palestine is the heart of a region which has un- questioned strategic significance from a political and economic standpoint. The security, peace, progress, prosperity and future of the entire world depends upon Palestine and what happens in it and what happens because of it.
(2.23) What makes the case of Palestine unique is the fact that in addition to the occupa- tion of its territory and the plundering of its resources, its people were driven from their home and their native land. And by the worst possible coincidence, this happened at a black moment in the history of mankind, when mankind had fallen under the domination of the false, lying, deceitful god Communication, and my people fell victim, in this century, in this age, to a vile, predatory, terrorist, Fascist assault upon their land, their heritage, their culture and their faith.
(2.24): After the seizure of the land came the attempt to appropriate the heritage. The tentacles of this aggression have been extended even to the minutest cultural details of our people. One example of this, gentlemen, is the way the Zionist enemy continues to claim that our numerous popular Palestinian styles of dress, which have been handed down from generation to generation for centuries, are their styles of dress, examples of their folklore, part of their heritage. Why? Why? We must ask this question, because the Zionist ideology, ‘to'put’ the matter briefly, refuses to coexist with other cultures. it is''crucial to realize this. The* Zionist ideology is bent'on destroying all evidence’ that would refute its lying claims.
(2.25) Among the criminal acts of the Zionist enemy which are occurring at the present time - I mention this as an example, not as the only such crime - is the destruction of
540 villages with dynamite after the expulsion of their inhabitants. And their race hatred has impelled them to organize whosesale massacres of our people, such as the mas- sacres of Deir Yassin, Qibya, Nahalin and others. Why? In order to liquidate our people and extirpate their culture and their existence. In addition, we now have the murderous assault which is currently being directed against the Lebanese and Palestinian people in southern Lebanon, in which the most modern American weapons of destruction and killing are being used, and these weapons are paid for with the money of the American taxpayer, although he does not know it.
(2.26) In recent years all this has become epitomized in the action taken by the Israeli occupier to change the face of the city of Jerusalem, that flower among cities. Jerusalem is a symbol of Palestine and of the civilizations which have given birth to apostolic missions and have been illustrated by them. Not only have Jerusalem's inhabitants been driven out, but places of worship such as the Dome of the Rock and the Church of the Resurrection have been burned. Furthermore, under the pretext of archaeological excava- tions to unearth historic remains, anything still standing is destroyed. This is a charge which does not require corroboration: this Organization has condemned all these actions. But the Israeli aggressors, with that hateful racist insolence for which they are so well known, and relying on unlimited political support and military aid from America, have dis- regaraed the resolutions of international organizations and have continued with their activities. Recently, indeed, Israel promulgated a decree annexing Jerusalem, despite the condemnation of the entire world community, with the exception of the Government of the Unitea States of America which abstained. This it did in accordance with its imperialist policy of support for the Zionist State, so that the latter can continue, not merely to violate an ancient culture and civilization, but also, what is more serious, to jeopardize the peace and security of the Near East and indeed the entire world. In the process they use the most up-to-date American weapons, including weapons that are banned throughout the world, to kill our children and our women and to destroy the Palestinian camps and the towns and villages of Lebanon, in a war which the Israeli Chief of Staff has said will continue until one of the two sides is wiped out. Why? Because the Zionists believe in nothing but war, killing and bloodshed.
(2.27) Mr President, distinguished delegates. For the past thirty years our people have been striving and struggling for survival, for life, to say nothing of their legitimate right to return, their right to self-determination, their right to set up ‘an independent State on the soil of their Palestinian homeland. Thirty years may not have amounted to much in the life of a people in the past, but nowadays, when the accelerating pace of events compresses time and shortens distances, those thirty years have made our homeland, Palestine, into an area which is one of the most seriously inflamed tension points or ex- plosion points in the world. What is happening today in Lebanon, southern Lebanon and inside occupied Palestine is the clearest evidence of what we are saying.
(2.28) The world knows that there are four million Palestinians without a homeland, scme expelled, and some living under occupation, and that millions of Arabs are concerned at the role of the racist, imperialist policeman which the aggressor State of Israel is assum- ing in order to impose dependency and backwardness on the Arab homeland. (In addition, we see the attempt of the American administration to achieve hegemony over the Gulf, with its oil and its strategic location, using for that purpose various approaches, means and con- spiracies, including the dispatch of three American fleets to the Gulf, the Indian Ocean, the Red Sea and the Mediterranean, to say nothing of the rapid deployment force, the first units of which have begun to arrive in our region, and the military bases which have re- appeared, generating anxiety and threatening the peace of the world.
(2.29) However, our Palestinian Arab people and our Arab nation are facing this racist, colonialist aggression with determination and firmness. There was never any possibility that our civilization, our culture, the masses of our people would succumb. They have taken up the effort to achieve by any means available the recovery of their rights. It has been sixteen years now since the beginning of the Palestinian revolution, which is en- gaged in a struggle to liberate our homeland, Palestine. All of you know what plots and conspiracies that revolution has had to face. We are fighting, not only to liberate our Palestinian people, but also to liberate the individual Jew and save him from becoming fuel for war in our region, the Near East. I say that all of you know what plots and conspira- cies our revolution has had to face, and the most dangerous of them has been the Camp David conspiracy and the results that have flowed from it. All of you know of the resistance of the Palestinian Arab people, and how they have refused to renounce their land, and how they have rallied unreservedly around the Palestine Liberation Organization, accepting it as their sole legitimate representative, not only in the sense that it provides a political framework and organizational leadership and leads in the fighting, but also in the sense that it is the means whereby the people hope to preserve their entity and heritage, the development of their culture and the progress of those who belong to it, and the defence of their civilization - indeed, the defence of their existence, and opposition to the liquidation of their case and hence their liquidation as a people.
(2.30) In addition to the diplomatic, political and military activities in resistance to the occupation in which the PLO engages, it also realized, from the outset, the value of
1384    culture in its struggle, and revealed the danger of the racist onslaught of Zionism against the ¢ivilization and culture of our region. For this reason our people were con- cerned, even when they were refugees living in tents or under the heel of occupation, to cling to their heritage and values and to strive quickly to acquire education, science and culture. Our people began their cultural and educational revolution years before their political revolution and armed struggle. Accordingly, we can say with all pride and grati- fication that we have unleashed two revolutions. The first is a revolution of knowledge which has enabled our people, despite the bitter and difficult conditions under which they have had to live, to achieve the highest proportion of educated people in the Near East. The second is the new Palestinian revolution designed to resist the occupation of their land and homeland.
(2.31) And in this connection I must express my thanks to this Conference for its support for the proposed establishment of a Palestinian Open University which will participate in our cultural revolution and help to lower some of the barriers which our students face, dispersed everywhere as they are. It will also help to solve the problems of the other students in the region, serving them in the same way as it will serve us.
(2.32) I must also commend Unesco's role in helping our people. The Executive Board was the first international body to adopt a recommendation to the effect that the Palestine Liberation Organization should be admitted as an observer. Unesco also participated in the sending of a number of experts to UNRWA, and I must also mention the resolutions which have been adopted by the General Conference and the Executive Board, despite the fact that they are limited to Jerusalem and educational and cultural institutions in the occupied territories. In addition, Unesco has provided admirable assistance in spreading aware- ness of the cultural aspects of the Palestinian people.
(2.33) Mr President, distinguished delegates. The Palestinian Liberation Organization has followed this course... Ever since it was formed it has been concerned to build and organize educational, cultural and social institutions, with the result that our people have been able to occupy prominent positions in science and culture, in various areas of specialization, in more than one country and in more ‘than one field. The Israeli aggres- sors have realized the danger that this presents to their policy, so they have followed and continue to pursue a policy of keeping the people deliberately ignorant. This policy has been applied against those of our people who live in occupied Palestine. They have been deprived of the right to study their history and compelled instead to learn Zionist lies in their school curricula, their Arabic language has been relegated to an insignifi- cant position in their schools, and the Israelis have placed difficulties in their way with regard to higher education and restricted their opportunities for employment. Why? So that our people will have no laternative but to emigrate from the country, so that our people will be deprived of their cultural, social and political leaders. Recently the enemy announced that punishment in the form of prison or expulsion - it is very important for us to understand this - would be meted out to anyone who raised the flag of Palestine, or announced his adherence to the Palestine Liberation Organization, or even sang or recited Palestinian songs, or clung to his national affiliation under the occupation. The Zionists also issued an extraordinary military decree placing our cultural universities under the authority and control. of the military governor. The Zionist enemy has not hesitated to implement this decree and defy the international community, which has condemned its decrees ordering the expulsion of Palestinians.
(2.34) But our people are facing all this with strength and steadfastness, standing firm in the face of these schemes to liquidate them, physically and culturally. That is why the Zionist occupiers have failed to achieve the acceptance of the Camp David conspiracy and the joke of autonomy, and have failed to extinguish the torch cf our revolution, which draws its strength and its fuel from a people whose roots go back for thousands of years, from a great nation which extends from the ocean to the Gulf, and from their friends and allies throughout the world, bearing high the resplendent heritage of mankind in defence of freedom and justice. That is our strength, the strength of the Palestinian revolution, the strength of the Palestinian people. Let these people remember past history. When our people were subjected to the devastating invasion of the legions, the armies of Rome, they defied them. How? By the mightiest means which a people can use to defy their occupiers. Our people sent them - our people sent to Rome, from the land of Palestine, one of the dis- ciples of Jesus, peace be upon him, not in order that he might occupy Rome, but to occupy the hearts of all the people of Rome. Do we not see in this an example of what is meant by culture, embodied in this living example, the light of which continues to spread and shine brilliantly to this day? In this there is a moral and an instructive example for those who are willing to take heed.
(2.35) Mr President, distinguished delegates. In the name of the Palestine's situation, its heritage, its culture, its civilization, in the name of our solidarity with all peoples who are struggling for their freedom, national independence and progress, and for the preservation of their natioral culture and their part of the human heritage, we call upon the entire world, and you who bear the responsibility for defending the world's cul- tural freedom and progress and the right of its people to live in peace, I call upon all of you to intensify your struggle and your efforts to abolish the artificial obstacles that divide mankind, to eradicate racist thinking in all its forms, to achieve cultural and social equality, and to bring about the freedom of mankind, of every individual, so that he may have a homeland and live in his homeland, the land in whose soil the bones of his fathers and grandfathers are laid, the land where the monuments of his history and culture stand, and where brotherhood flourishes and discrimination is unknown.
(2.36) The people of Palestine, thanks to your solidarity with their just struggle, will restore the name of Palestine to the political map - that name which has never disappeared from the hearts of those who remember history and those who carry on the work of religion - so that peace will remain in Palestine, the land of peace. This will not be feasible until    the Palestinian people win their rights, those rights which the world has recognized are legitimately theirs, including the right to return to their homes, to determine their own future freely, and to exercise national sovereignty over their land by setting up their own independent state on the soil of their homeland, Palestine. Palestine calls upon you to redouble your efforts to preserve its original nature, which the occupiers are attempt- ing to obliterate. The history of Palestine appeals to you who are the guardians of his- tory and culture to unmask the falsity of the racist lies, not only so as to correct an error in the writing of history, but to save future generations from the horror of racist fanaticism to which they are summoned by an entity which announces, and continues to insist, that there is no place in it for anyone who does not adhere to and follow the Zionist ideology.
(2.37) Mr President, distingusihed delegates. The world is still far from having achieved equality between nations. As long as we do not fight for such equality, cultures will con- tinue to clash instead of interacting, fanaticism instead of tolerance will rule and be dominant, ignorance rather than knowledge will continue tc be widespread, hunger will con- tinue to be a monster threatening mankind, and the devastation of war will continue to be a nightmare haunting the human race.
(2.38) Gentlemen, there is no need for me to assure you that our Palestinian revolution, as a national liberation movement, is not just a bullet. It is also a surgeon's scalpel, a writer's pen, an artist's brush, a word of poetry, a history book, an article on socio- logy, a beautiful song, a lamp of civilization. It is a people's movement, with all the cultural heritage and values which those people carry within them. Nor is there any need to assure you that our victory will open the door wide to a fruitful human cultural inter- change, of the kind for which Palestine has always been the melting-pot - a melting-pot in which different cultures fuse and merge and intermingle until they produce a new and unique human achievement in culture and history.
(2.39) Our people - in exile, in disaster, in tribulation - are resisting, are fighting, are struggling against the enemies of humanity, the enemies of life, the enemies of civil- ization, the enemies of all mankind. And for that reason our people are with all strug- gling peoples, in a single trench, fighting against tyranny and injustice and colonialism. We stand with the struggling peoples of Asia, Africa and Latin America, with those of Namibia and South Africa, with those who are fighting against Fascism and racism in Latin America, with all those who are fighting for progress, democracy and social justice every- where in the entire world.
(2.40) Our people will continue to fight and to resist, confident that they will not re- main alone, because all the enlightened people of the world are with them, all the honest people of the world are with them, all struggling people are with them in their battle for a bright and progressive future for our people, our region and all its peoples, and all the peoples of the entire world. We are moving with the current of history, and whoever moves with the current of history will march in the victory procession. Therefore, our people will be victorious in this current, the current of history and human civilization. They will be victorious with all their constituent groups, they will be victorious with their symbols and their age-old heritage, they will be victorious with their Muslims and their Christians and their Jews. The flag of our democratic state will fly over the hills of the Mount of Olives in our beloved Jerusalem. The revolution will continue until victory. Thank you.
3 The PRESIDENT: Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Palestine Liberation Organization for his statement. UNESCO'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A NEW INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORDER (ITEM 17 OF THE AGENDA): DRAFT RESOLUTION SUBMITTED BY THE DRAFTING AND NEGO- TIATION GROUP (21 C/PLEN/DR.23) CONTRIBUTION DE L'UNESCO A L'INSTAURATION D'UN NOUVEL ORDRE ECONOMIQUE INTER- NATIONAL (POINT 17 DE L'ORDRE DU JOUR): PROJET DE RESOLUTION PRESENTE PAR LE GROUPE DE REDACTION ET DE NEGOCIATION (21 C/PLEN/DR.23) CONTRIBUCION DE LA UNESCO AL ESTABLECIMIENTO DE UN NUEVO ORDEN ECONOMICO INTER- NACIONAL (PUNTO 17 DEL ORDEN DEL DIA): PROYECTO DE RESOLUCION PRESENTADO POR EL GRUPO DE REDACCION Y NEGOCIACION (21 C/PLEN/DR.23) ВКЛАД ЮНЕСКО В УСТАНОВЛЕНИЕ НОВОГО МЕЖДУНАРОДНОГО ЭКОНОМИЧЕСКОГО ПОРЯДКА /ПУНКТ 17 ПОВЕСТКИ ДНЯ/: ПРОЕКТ РЕЗОЛЮЦИИ, ПРЕДСТАВЛЕННЫЙ ГРУППОЙ ПО СОГЛАСОВАНИЮ И РЕДАКТИРОВАНИЮ (21 C/PLEN/DR.23) قيرفنممدقمرارقعورشم:(لامعألالودجنم‏1WV(ديدجىلودىداصتقاماظنةماقأىفوكسنويلاماهسا aclallضوافتلاو‏(YY Sp/ àoL</py))‏ HRXARAAEHERAGEFOTR (WERE 17): REZMARIHRNEE‏
21C/PLENDR, )‏(28 The PRESIDENT:4.‏ We shall now consider item 17 of the agenda, and I shall invite the Chairman‏ of the Drafting and Negotiation Group, Mr Carneiro, to present the draft resolu- tion submitted in document 21 C/PLEN/DR.23. Mr Carneiro, you have the floor.
5.1 M. CARNEIRO (Brésil), président du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation.- 38 Monsieur le Président, j'ai l'honneur de vous présenter aujourd'hui les résul- tats des travaux du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation sur le point 17 de l'ordre du jour de la Conférence générale, intitulé "Contribution de l'Unesco à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international".
5.2 C'est le sous-groupe 1 du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation présidé par l'ambassadeur Rahal, qui a été spécialement chargé des négociations qui ont abouti à la rédaction du texte dont vous êtes saisis, à savoir le projet de résolution
21 C/PLEN/DR.23. Les représentants de la Bulgarie, de la Chine, du Japon, de la Jamahiriya arabe libyenne, du Mexique, de la République fédérale d'Allemagne et du Zaïre ont assisté le président du sous-groupe. Douze séances ont été nécessaires au sous-groupe pour élaborer le projet dont il était chargé, projet qui a fait également l'objet de deux réunions plénières du Groupe. Le document 21 C/12, pré- senté par le Directeur général et le projet de résolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.12, pré- senté par la Roumanie, la Côte d'Ivoire, le Nigéria, les Philippines, le Sénégal, le Tchad, la Sierra Leone, la Guinée équatoriale, le Maroc, le Rwanda et le Gabon ont servi de point de départ aux travaux du sous-groupe, qui a considérablement enrichi leur contenu.
5.3 Je dois souligner qu'un réel effort a été fait pour mettre au point le projet de résolution qui est finalement issu de nos négociations. Quatre idées princi- pales sous-tendent le projet : le nouvel ordre économique international doit être fondé sur un développement endogène et intégré, s'étendant aux domaines de la science, de la culture, de l'éducation et de la communication ; le renforcement de l'identité culturelle de chaque peuple est à la fois un moyen et un but du nouvel ordre économique international ; l'utilisation de la science et de la technologie doit se faire conformément aux besoins de chaque société et rester adaptée aux moyens, aux finalités sociales et aux normes culturelles de cette société ; l'es- poir demeure de voir le désarmement libérer des ressources qui puissent être uti- lisées au bénéfice des pays en développement et pour une coopération pacifique entre les peuples.
5.4 Des divergences sont cependant apparues sur certains points, qui ont donné lieu à des discussions approfondies et prolongées ; il en a été ainsi des ques- tions suivantes : dans quelle mesure est-il possible de lier le développement au désarmement ? Comment définir nettement le rôle de l'Unesco et les limites exactes de son action pour l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international. Cette question s'est posée en particulier à propos du désarmement, des problèmes relatifs à l'activité des sociétés transnationales et du droit souverain des Etats d'utiliser et d'exploiter leurs ressources naturelles.
5.5 Je dois rendre hommage aux membres du Groupe, à la volonté d'accord dont ils n'ont cessé de faire preuve. Les positions ont toujours été exprimées avec beau- coup de mesure, et le désir de comprendre tous les points de vue n'a cessé d'être présent pendant tout le débat dont a fait l'objet la question de l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international. Le projet de résolution que j'ai l'honneur de soumettre à l'adoption de la Conférence générale représente donc une synthèse des vues qui se sont manifestées au sein du Groupe, et je puis vous assu- rer qu'il s'agit du plus grand dénominateur commun que nous ayons pu dégager lors de ce débat.
5.6 Je crois, Monsieur le Président, compte tenu du droit que se sont réservé plusieurs délégations de préciser leur position une fois ce projet approuvé, que la Conférence générale est en mesure d'adopter par consensus le projet de résolu- tion 21 C/PLEN/DR.23. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
6% The PRESIDENT: I thank the Chairman of the Drafting and Negotiation Group, and I give the floor to the delegate of Switzerland.
7. M. HUMMEL (Suisse) .- Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, je ne prends pas la parole pour dire que le projet de résolution est pour moi une source de diffi- cultés. Je remercie au contraire le Groupe de rédaction et de négociation des efforts qu'il a déployés pour mettre au point ce texte. Je voudrais simplement soulever un point relativement mineur. Je remarque que dans le titre du projet de résolution à l'étude et dans nombre de ses paragraphes, il est, comme il se doit, question "d'un" nouvel ordre économique international. Par contre, on relève dans certains autres paragraphes l'emploi de la formule "le" nouvel ordre économique international, qui n'apparaît d'ailleurs pas, je crois, dans les autres versions linguistiques. Je souhaiterais pour ma part que la formule employée soit toujours "un" nouvel ordre économique international. Merci, Monsieur le Président. BE The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Switzerland, and I give the floor again to the Chair- man of the Drafting and Negotiation Group.
9. M. CARNEIRO (Brésil), président du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation .- Monsieur le Président, ce probléme a été naturellement soulevé au sein non seulement du sous-groupe mais du groupe tout entier. Nous nous sommes penchés sur les textes des Nations Unies pour voir si cette uniformisation y avait été réa- lisée, et, comme il était à prévoir, nous y avons trouvé une alternance entre les deux formules. Pour l'essentiel, nous avons tenu à dire "un" nouvel ordre interna- tional, mais parfois le style, la langue, la forme, dans les textes des Nations Unies comme dans les nôtres, se prêtent difficilement à l'emploi de cette formule. Il'@rtfallu adnettre, et la Commission La Kalt volontiers que, sans violerzen çau- cune manière le style que les Nations Unies ont adopté, nous pouvions faire ici et là alterner les articles. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
10::1 stie PRESIDENT: I thank the Chairman of the Drafting and Negotiation Group. Does any other delegate wish to speak? I see none. May I take it that the Conference adopts this draft resolution? Thank you.
10.2 The resolution is adopted.
10.3 The delegate of the United States of America has the floor.
11.1 Mrs DUKE (United States of America): Thank you, Mr President. My government sincerely appreciates the friendly give-and-take exhibited by colleague delegations, as well as the help provided by the Secretariat in bringing about this resolution. We must, however, explain that we agree neither with a number of statements in the original Declaration on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order nor with parts of the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties ‘of States. While we join insthe consensus on the resolution of this General Conference, as we did at the twentieth session, we must remind our colleagues of this fundamental position.
11.2 Mr President, while we would have preferred a number of additions and de- letions in the text of the resolution just adopted, for the sake of consensus we have not insisted on them.
11.3 First, there are a number of provisions of this resolution in which Unesco, invour view, 'goeswelY beyond ‘its“constitutionalarea"0£ rcompetence. ’Unesconis not, as might be inferred from certain paragraphs, an international economic agency. Its impact on the new international economic order is strictly within the fields of education, science, culture and communication.
11.4 Furthermore, while there is a real relationship between disarmament and de- velopment, Unesco's role is and should remain strictly limited to its areas of competence.
11.5" Secondly, the understandable desire of countries to be free from dependency has led to an underemphasis on the inevitable and indeed largely desirable inter- dependency of nations, rich and poor alike.
11.6 Thirdly, in laying as much stress as it does on the full exercise of national sovereignty, the resolution underemphasizes the over-arching role of international law. More specifically, Mr President, we consider the reference in operative para- graph 1 (b), to respect for the generally recognized principles of international law to mean that the exercise of the right of national sovereignty over national resources must take place within the framework of international law.
11.7 Finally, Mr President, we wish to remind the Secretariat and fellow delegates that the focal point in the United Nations system for issues relating to trans- national corporations is the Commission on Transnational Corporations and its Sec- retariat. Unesco studies in this area should continue to be closely co-ordinated with the Comission astcibe consistent with Its priorities and to assist it ingits work programme. Thank you, Mr President.
12; The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of the United States of America. Does any other delegate wishstorspeak? -I:see none. Thank. you. very much:    MEDIUM-TERM PLAN FOR 1984-1989 - PRELIMINARY REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL
(21 C/4): DRAFT RESOLUTION SUBMITTED BY THE DRAFTING GROUP ON ITEM 11 OF THE AGENDA (21 C/PLEN/DR.24) PLAN A MOYEN TERME POUR 1984-1989 - RAPPORT PRELIMINAIRE DU DIRECTEUR GENERAL
(21 C/4): PROJET DE RESOLUTION PRESENTE PAR LE GROUPE DE REDACTION SUR LE POINT 11 DE L'ORDRE DU JOUR (21 C/PLEN/DR.24) PLAN A PLAZO MEDIO PARA 1984-1989 - INFORME PRELIMINAR DEL DIRECTOR GENERAL
13.1 The PRESIDENT: We now turn to draft resolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.24, prepared as you know by the Drafting Group on item 11, which was chaired by the Chairman of Programme Com- mission V and composed of the Chairmen of the other Programme Commissions and of representatives of the various regional groups. Does any delegate wish to speak on this item?
13.2 The delegate of Ivory Coast has the floor.
14. M. KANGHA (Cote d'Ivoire) .- Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, je me bornerai à demander que soit réparée une légère omission dans le texte de l'Annexe au projet de résolu- tion 21 C/PLEN/DR.24. En effet, le paragraphe (g) de la section III de cette Annexe contient la phrase suivante : "Le développement endogène et intégré, centré sur l'homme, a été mentionné comme thème possible d'un tel programme". Nous pen- sons, Monsieur le Président, qu'il est difficile de mettre en place une stratégie de développement endogène et de la mener à bien sans y associer la préoccupation relative à la connaissance précise des effets socioculturels des activités des sociétés transnationales. Nous avions déjà proposé à la Commission III que cet aspect de la question soit expressément mentionné et nous sommes particulièrement heureux que cette proposition ait été acceptée. C'est pourquoi je propose de modi- fier la phrase que j'ai citée afin qu'elle se lise comme suit : "Le développement endogène et intégré, centré sur l'homme, ainsi que les effets socioculturels des activités des sociétés transnationales, ont été mentionnés comme thème possible d'un tel programme". Merci, Monsieur le Président.
153 The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Ivory Coast, and I give the floor to the delegate of Netherlands.
16.1 M. STRASSER (Pays-Bas).- Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je suppose qu'il est encore possible de proposer d'apporter quelques légères modifications au texte du projet de résolution 21 C/ PLEN/DR.24 actuellement à l'étude. Si tel est le cas, Monsieur le Président, añai
1'honneur, au nom de ma délégation, de faire quelques propositions dans ce sens.
16.2 Le premier amendement porterait sur le paragraphe 10 du projet de résolu- tion, dans la partie I "Approche générale". Craignant que dans l'analyse des pro- blèmes mondiaux, l'approche ne devienne un peu trop large, nous souhaiterions que soient ajoutés à la fin de l'alinéa (iii) les mots "pour autant qu'ils relèvent des domaines de compétence de l'Unesco."
16.3 D'autre part, Monsieur le Président, nous souhaiterions qu'à la section II de l'Annexe au projet de résolution, intéressant les sciences exactes et natu- relles, la dernière phrase du paragraphe (1), qui reprend le contenu d'un paragraphe de la résolution 21 C/DR.175, présenté par les Pays-Bas qui concernait le développement de l'informatique et son influence sur d'autres domaines, soit un peu plus pré- cise. Il conviendrait à cette fin de remplacer, à l'avant-dernière ligne de ce paragraphe, les mots "son influence sur d'autres domaines" par "ses relations avec d'autres secteurs du programme".
38 16.4 Enfin, Monsieur le Président, nous voudrions, pour tenir compte du projet de résolution 21 C/DR.327 que nous avons adopté ce matin et qui contenait un para- graphe au sujet du Plan à moyen terme qui ne semble pas avoir été repris ici, que soit ajou- tée au paragraphe (f) de la section IV (Culture) de l'Annexe au projet de résolution, la phrase suivante, dont je vous donnerai lecture en anglais : "In this connection, there is a necessity for an integrated, intersectoral and coherent approach to the problems arising from migratory movements". Cet amendement tend, Monsieur le Pré- sident, à expliciter davantage le fait que nous souhaitons que le problème des migrants soit traité de façon aussi intersectorielle et intégrée que possible dans le Plan à moyen terme. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
17. The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Netherlands. The delegate of Australia has the floor.
18.1 Mr WILSON (Australia): Mr President, as a member of the Drafting Group, I have a comment concerning Section V of the Annex to the draft resolution, which concerns communication. I believe that there is a slight error in the wording of the sentence of para- graph (b), which should read: "Unesco should extend its range of activities in this area by going beyond the mere presentation of news and other data by the mass media, and deal with all types of information and channels of communication”.
18.2 While I have the floor, Mr President, perhaps I might be allowed to pay tribute to the Chairman of the Drafting Group which produced this document and to the members of the Secretariat who, under rather arduous circumstances late on Saturday, managed to achieve a clean draft. Thank you, Sir.
1977” "The “PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Australia. The delegate of India has the floor.
20. Mr COPAL (India): Mr President, with reference to paragraph (c) of part IIT of the Annex to document 21 C/PLEN/DR.24, which begins "History should be consulted ..." I do not believe that one can actually "consult" history. I would therefore suggest that the text should be modified to read: "The discipline of history should be util- ized for the purpose of analysing social phenomena and social change". Thank you, Mr President.
21. The PRESIDENT: I thank ‘the ‘delegate of India.’ Are there any other speakers? The Director- General has the floor.
22.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL.- Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, je voudrais faire une suggestion en ce qui concerne l'adjonction proposée à l'alinéa (iii) du para- graphe 10 de la partie I "Approche générale". Le délégué des Pays-Bas a suggéré que l'on ajoute à la fin de l'alinéa "pour autant qu'ils relèvent des domaines de compétence de l'Unesco." Je me demande s'il ne serait pas préférable d'ajouter le membre de phrase suivant : "et notamment dans leurs rapports avec les domaines de compétence de l'Organisation." Le délégué des Pays-Bas me donne son assentiment, il me semble. Cette formule pourrait donc être retenue.
22.2 Ensuite, Monsieur le Président, je voudrais faire une suggestion relative à la section IV de l'Annexe, concernant la culture. Au paragraphe (a), il est dit: "L'appréciation et le respect de l'identité culturelle restent un thème central, mais il appartient à l'Unesco de déborder ce cadre et de favoriser le dialogue des cultures et, partant, leur compréhension mutuelle. Il conviendrait donc de trans- cender très vite la notion d'identité culturelle et de procéder à des recherches et à des échanges transculturels et interculturels, et déboucher ainsi sur une véritable compréhension culturelle mutuelle."
22.3 Monsieur le Président, ce paragraphe me paraît devoir être nuancé quelque peu à la lumière des débats de la Commission IV, qui ont montré que les problèmes de l'identité culturelle devaient au contraire être considérés comme le point focal de l'activité de l'Organisation dans le domaine de la culture. Il me semble cependant que la formulation actuelle pourrait être en partie retenue, dans la me- sure où le problème posé n'est pas seulement celui de l'identité culturelle, mais aussi celui des relations interculturelles et des influences réciproques entre les différentes cultures.
22.4 Je suggérerai donc ceci : premièrement, dans la première phrase, à la deu- xième ligne ajouter après "il appartient" le mot "aussi" et supprimer les mots "de déborder ce cadre et" ; deuxièmement, remplacer à la quatrième ligne les mots "de transcender très vite" par les mots "tout en continuant d'accorder l'attention
1390   voulue a", et modifier la suite de fagon que la deuxième phrase du paragraphe se 38 lise ainsi : "Il conviendrait donc, tout en continuant d'accorder l'attention vou- lue à la notion d'identité culturelle, de promouvoir des recherches transcultu- relles et interculturelles en vue de favoriser une véritable appréciation mutuelle des cultures et une compréhension réciproque entre les peuples." Voilä, Monsieur le Président, la suggestion que je voulais faire.
23. The PRESIDENT: I thank the Director-General, and I give the floor to the delegate of Norway.
24. Mrs SKARD (Norway): Thank you, Mr President. May I ask what is the status of this document and its different parts? As I understood it at the beginning of the discussion, we were called upon to pronounce merely upon the draft resolution, and not upon the Annexes, but now I hear proposals for their amendment. On the other hand, the Annexes were prepared in the different Commissions, and yet we have not taken note of them or adopted them when we considered the Commissions' reports. I am some- what confused, Sir, on this matter.
25. The PRESIDENT: Thank you. I shall call upon the Chairman of Programme Commission I to reply to your question in the absence of the Chairman of the Drafting Group.
26. M. HERMAN (Hongrie), président de la Commission du programme I.- Merci, Monsieur le Président. En l'absence de M. Abad Grijalva, qui a dirigé les travaux du Groupe de rédaction d'une manière extrêmement efficace, je souhaite fournir une précision en réponse à la question qui vient d'être posée. Vous avez devant vous, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, un projet de résolution qui comporte 24 paragraphes. A ce texte est jointe une annexe comportant quatre sections constituées de considérations tirées des débats des commissions du pro- gramme, qui ont été établies par les présidents des commissions et ensuite exami- nées et approuvées par le Groupe de rédaction. Comme vous pouvez le constater, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, le statut de ces textes est défini au paragraphe 24 du projet de résolution où le Directeur général est invité "à tenir compte dans la mesure du possible des considérations ci-après annexées, qui semblent se dégager des travaux des commissions du programme". Il est donc clair que ces annexes, qui ont pour but d'éclairer le projet de résolution en fournis- sant des informations supplémentaires, ne font pas partie du projet de résolution proprement dit. Cependant, je ne saurais me prononcer sur la question de savoir si la Conférence générale peut ou non modifier le contenu de l'Annexe. Merci, Mon- sieur le Président.
27. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much, Mr Herman. I now give the floor to the delegate of France.
28. M. BRUNSVICK (France) .- Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais revenir au paragraphe (a) de la sec- tion IV de l'Annexe, intéressant la culture. Je crois que la rédaction allégée proposée par le Directeur général ne change pas le fond mais améliore la présenta- tion du texte. Ayant participé au Groupe de rédaction qui a mis au point ce texte, je pense pouvoir dire que cette nouvelle formule est tout à fait préférable à celle, peut-être un peu compliquée, qui avait été retenue. Par contre, je ne sou- haiterais pas que le terme "échanges" disparaisse comme j'ai cru le comprendre en entendant la lecture peut-être un peu rapide qu'a faite le Directeur général de son texte. Dans la mesure où la formule "promouvoir des recherches et des échanges transculturels et interculturels" serait acceptée, je me rallierais volontiers à la suggestion du Directeur général.
29.1 The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of France. I understand that the Director-General signi- fied his agreement.
29.2 The delegate of Turkey has the floor.
30. Mr INONU (Turkey), Chairman of Commission II: Mr President, as the Chairman of Commission II, I would agree with the amend- ment proposed by the delegate of Netherlands, which - as far as informatics is concerned - constitutes a more faithful summary of the draft resolution submitted by his country. May I say that I am also in agreement with the other amendments proposed so far, and in particular with that proposed by the distinguished del- egate of India. Thank you, Mr President.
31. The PRESIDENT: Thank you, Professor Inönü. Does any other delegate wish to speak? The del- egate of Sudan has the floor.
(32.1) Mr BAKRI (Sudan) (Translation from the Arabic): Thank you, Mr President. In the first place, I, too should like to express my thanks to the Chairman of the Drafting Group and commend the work done both by it and by the Secretariat. I believe that the Group has in the end successfully summarized the resolu- tions decided on by the Commissions.
(32.2) Mr President, I should like to direct your attention to the fact that an error has crept into the Arabic translation of the draft resolution. You will note that while the word "Annex" appears clearly in the latter part of the English and French versions of the draft resolution, this is unfortunately not the case with the Arabic version. The annex is incorporated in. the text as. though it were an integral part of it. I bring this to your attention in the hope that the word "Annex" will be added in the definitive printed Arabic version, with "Education" and the other sectors coming after it. Thank you, Mr President.
33.7 ThePRESTDENT: I thank the delegate of Sudan; account will be taken of his observation. The delegate of "Poland has the floor.
34. M. OCHENDUSZKO (Pologne) .- Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je veux dire que pour tenir compte de la place importante qui a été donnée aux valeurs culturelles dans nos travaux, il y aurait lieu de faire mention de ces valeurs culturelles au paragraphe (e) de la sec- tion IV de l'Annexe. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
35... The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Poland, and I now give the floor to the delegate of Norway.
36. Mrs SKARD (Norway): Thank you, Mr President. Since the Annex to document 21 C/PLEN/DR.24 con- tains a virtual resumé of the discussions in the Commissions, I would like to pro- pose a small addition to part III, which deals with the social sciences. I am sure that the excellent President of Programme Commission III remembers very well that in our discussions there was active participation by the group of women mem- bers. May I suggest, therefore, that we add the status of women to the list of problems contained in the second sentence of subparagraph (b) (ii) of the text? I am sure that the President of our Commission, with the attitude he has shown, will®™accept this addition.” Thank vou, Mr President.
37.142 The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Norway. Are there any further proposals? I hear none. May I ask, therefore, if there are any objections to the amendments suggested in the course of the discussion, which appear to have been accepted by the Director-General and the Chairmen of the Commissions? Can we adopt the draft resolution as amended? Thank you.
37.2 The resolution, as amended, is adopted. CASE OF A MEMBER OF THE SECRETARIAT (DRAFT RESOLUTION 21 C/PLEN/DR.15) CAS D'UN MEMBRE DU SECRETARIAT (PROJET DE RESOLUTION 21 C/PLEN/DR.15) CASO DE UN MIEMBRO DE LA SECRETARIA (PROYECTO DE RESOLUCION 21 C/PLEN/DR.15) ДЕЛО O COTPVYIHUKE CEKPETAPUATA (IPOEKT PE3OJIOUUW 21 C/PLEN/DR.15) )16 ‎قوةماعإمارارقعورشم)ةيراتركسلايفظوم Sl AL BBAKRANEN) (NEE 21C/PLEN/DR, 15)
38. The PRESIDENT: We now turn to the draft resolution contained in document 21 C/PLEN/DR.15, submitted by Ecuador, Ivory Coast, New Zealand, United States of America, Senegal, Barbados, Togo, United Kingdom, Italy, Niger, Sierra Leone, Nigeria, Venezuela,    Lesotho and Chad. I shall call upon the delegate of Ivory Coast to present the 38 text on behalf of its sponsors. Mr Khanga, you have the floor.
39.1 M. KANGHA (Cdte d'Ivoire) .- Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, vous com- prendrez que ce soit pour la délégation de la Côte d'Ivoire un honneur et un privi- lège rares que d'avoir à vous exposer au nom des nombreux coauteurs du projet de résolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 les raisons de notre commune et solidaire démarche afin de vous aider àä percevoir, s'il en est besoin, l'immense espoir que nous plagons dans l'issue du débat qui va s'ouvrir. A ce stade, j'éviterai à dessein d'entrer dans les nombreux détails et dédales d'un dossier que vous connaissez certainement tous. En procédant ainsi, Monsieur le Président et honorables délégués, je vou- drais aider la Conférence à mieux utiliser le peu de temps qui lui reste. C'est pourquoi je me bornerai d'une part à situer les principales étapes de cette affaire et d'autre part à projeter toute la lumière souhaitable sur les principaux points de notre projet de résolution.
39.2 De quoi s'agit-il ? Mesdames et Messieurs, au cours de sa 109e session, le Conseil exécutif avait été saisi d'une question particulièrement préoccupante rela- tive à un cas de non-respect flagrant des dispositions de l'Acte constitutif de notre Organisation relatives aux privilèges et immunités garantis aux fonction- naires du Secrétariat. En effet, un fonctionnaire, s'étant rendu dans son pays, у avait été arrêté sans que les autorités compétentes dudit pays aient cru indispen- sable de fournir au préalable des informations qui eussent éclairé le Directeur général sur la teneur et la véracité des délits imputés à ce fonctionnaire. Bien plus, et je serais tenté de dire bien évidemment, les autorités compétentes de cet Etat membre n'avaient nuliement jugé utile de demander au Directeur général la levée de l'immunité dont jouissait le fonctionnaire en question au moment de son arrestation.
39.3 Le Conseil exécutif, vous le comprendrez, fut profondément préoccupé par la situation ainsi créée et tint à affirmer à une écrasante majorité que cette arres- tation et cette détention étaient contraires aux engagements fondamentaux pris par tous les Etats membres de l'Unesco en vue de garantir l'indépendance et l'inté- grité de la fonction publique internationale ainsi que les privilèges, les immu- nités et la sécurité personnelle des fonctionnaires du Secrétariat de notre Organisation. En conséquence, le Conseil exécutif assura le Directeur général de son total soutien et l'invita à poursuivre avec diligence le dialogue avec les autorités compétentes du pays en question en vue de régulariser la situation. Le Directeur général fut en outre invité à informer le Conseil exécutif, à sa
110e session, des résultats de ses démarches. Multipliant les voies susceptibles de permettre une évolution positive du problème, le Conseil exécutif invita égale- ment son Président à informer les Etats membres de la teneur de sa décision. Il est vrai que nous caressions tous alors l'espoir que la détermination ainsi mani- festée par le Conseil exécutif et le Directeur général de respecter scrupuleuse- ment les procédures prévues par l'Acte constitutif de notre Organisation pour le traitement et le règlement de situations de ce genre, ainsi que la souplesse du dialogue que nous engagions tous le Directeur général à établir avec les autorités compétentes du pays en question, seraient de nature à réduire à temps les nombreux obstacles se dressant sur la voie d'une solution à la fois prompte et digne pour les parties en cause.
39.4 Hélas, il n'en fut rien. A l'issue de sa séance privée tenue le 12 sep- tembre 1980, le Conseil exécutif, soucieux de demeurer parfaitement conséquent avec lui-même, a donc adopté une motion dans laquelle il a pris connaissance du jugement et de la condamnation du fonctionnaire en question, réprouvé une fois de plus le non-respect des accords internationaux garantissant les privilèges et immu- nités des fonctionnaires de l'Unesco, approuvé les démarches entreprises par le Directeur général depuis la 109e session en vue d'obtenir la libération du fonc- tionnaire arrêté, renouvelé son appel aux autorités compétentes du pays en cause afin qu'elles prennent immédiatement les mesures nécessaires permettant au £onc- tionnaire de rejoindre son poste a Paris, et, enfin, décidé d'attirer l'attention de la Conférence générale sur les faits que je viens d'évoquer et sur la gravité qu'ils revêtent pour le fonctionnement normal de l'Organisation.
39.5 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, tels sont les étapes et les éléments essentiels qui caractérisaient cette triste affaire. A présent vous com- prenez parfaitement pourquoi les arguties juridiques selon lesquelles la Confé- rence générale ne serait pas fondée à discuter de cette affaire ne sauraient vous égarer. La Conférence générale est l'organe suprême de l'Organisation et, en tant que telle, elle a non seulement le droit mais surtout l'impérieux devoir d'adopter une décision claire, dénuée de toute ambiguïté, sur cette affaire.
39.6 Pour instaurer et entretenir la confusion, on soutient aussi que le Conseil exécutif n'était pas fondé à se prononcer sur cette affaire lors de ses 109e et
1110e sessions. On voudrait nous faire croire que les dispositions de l'ar- ticle V.B, paragraphe 5, alinéa (b), de l'Acte constitutif, qui assigne certaines fonctions au Conseil exécutif, doivent être considérées comme nulles et non avenues.
39.7 De même on a essayé, heureusement en vain, de répandre des rumeurs selon lesquelles les auteurs de la résolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 seraient mus par des consi- dérations de politique politicienne. Quelle aberration ! Quels artifices inu- tiles ! Si manoeuvre de politique politicienne il y a dans cette affaire, elle ne peut être le fait que de ceux, qui n'ayant absolument aucun argument crédible à proposer, ont choisi de se perdre en conjectures, de nous égarer par des astuces diverses et d'exercer des pressions que vous n'avez eu aucune peine à démasquer et que vous êtes en droit de dénoncer.
39.8 Mesdames et Messieurs, il n'y a pas d'organisation internationale digne de ce nom sans une fonction publique internationale indépendante. Pour qu'une organi- sation internationale puisse être au service de tous les Etats membres, il faut en effet qu'elle soit servie par des fonctionnaires qui sont à son service exclusif. L'article VI, paragraphe 5, de l'Acte constitutif précise d'ailleurs que "les res- ponsabilités du Directeur général et du personnel ont un caractère exclusivement international". De plus, "dans l'accomplissement de leurs devoirs, ils ne demande- ront ni ne recevront d'instructions d'aucun gouvernement ni d'aucune autorité étrangère à l'Organisation". ..."Tous les Etats membres de l'Organisation s'en- gagent à respecter le caractère international des fonctions du Directeur général et du personnel et à ne pas chercher à les influencer dans l'accomplissement de leur tâche". Il s'agit là de dispositions qui ne sont pas particulières à l'Unesco, puisque l'on retrouve leur équivalent dans les constitutions et les Statuts de toutes les organisations internationales, à commencer par l'Organisa- tion des Nations Unies.
39.9 Pour qu'il en soit ainsi, certaines immunités sont accordées aux fonction- naires internationaux, non dans leur intérêt propre, mais précisément dans l'in- térêt de l'Organisation et de ses Etats membres. Ces immunités sont énumérées d'une manière limitative - il convient d'insister sur ce point - à l'article VI de la Convention sur les privilèges et immunités des institutions spécialisées accep- tée par la Conférence générale, avec effet à compter du 7 février 1949. La sec- tion 19, figurant à l'article VI, retient cependant comme première de ces immu- nités nécessaires aux fonctionnaires internationaux l'immunité de juridiction ; elle précise en effet : "Les fonctionnaires des institutions spécialisées : (a) Jouiront de l'immunité de juridiction pour les actes accomplis par eux en leur qualité officielle (y compris leurs paroles et écrits)". Cela signifie qu'ils ne peuvent être retenus, arrêtés, détenus, jugés, condamnés et emprisonnés, car on considère qu'il va de l'intérêt de l'Organisation - et donc de tous ses Etats membres - que les fonctionnaires puissent continuer à servir l'Organisation sans entraves, notamment celles qui restreignent la liberté personnelle des fonction- naires internationaux.
39.10 Pour que les intérêts de l'Organisation soient sauvegardés sans que les intérêts légitimes des Etats - parmi lesquels l'Etat dont le fonctionnaire est ressortissant - soient mis en danger, des règles de procédure précises ont été prévues en ce qui concerne la levée des immunités. Les règles concernant les immu- nités des fonctionnaires internationaux sont incontestablement exorbitantes du droit commun. Tout a été prévu et tout doit être fait pour que le recours à ces immunités n'aboutisse pas à des abus, au détriment des Etats membres qui con- servent le droit souverain de protéger leur sécurité et leur ordre public. Le para- graphe 5 de l'article VI de l'Acte constitutif définit à cet égard le devoir fonda- mental des fonctionnaires internationaux puisqu'il indique : "Ils s'abstiendront de tout acte de nature à compromettre leur situation de fonctionnaires internatio- naux". La section 22 de la Convention sur les privilèges et immunités des institu- tions spécialisées est encore plus explicite : "Les privilèges et immunités sont accordés aux fonctionnaires uniquement dans l'intérêt des institutions spéciali- sées et non pour leur bénéfice personnel". Mais surtout, cette section définit la procédure à suivre lorsqu'un problème se pose, quel que soit l'Etat concerné, Etat du fonctionnaire ou Etat étranger : "Chaque institution spécialisée pourra et devra lever l'immunité accordée à un fonctionnaire dans tous les cas où, à son avis, cette immunité empêcherait que justice ne soit faite et où l'immunité peut être levée sans porter préjudice aux intérêts de l'institution spécialisée."
39.11 Il est évident qu'aucune des règles que je viens de rappeler n'a été suivie dans le cas qui nous intéresse, puisqu'il n'y a même pas eu le moindre acte suscep- tible d'être interprété comme une demande de levée de l'immunité du fonctionnaire en question.
39.12 Mesdames et Messieurs, au cours du débat de politique générale, nombreux ont été ceux d'entre nous qui ont exprimé leur vive inquiétude au sujet de cette affaire. Dans l'ensemble, les orateurs qui s'y sont référés ont soit réaffirmé    leur attachement à l'indépendance de la fonction publique internationale en tant 38 qu'élément essentiel du bon fonctionnement du système des Nations Unies, soit lancé un appel aux Etats membres de l'Unesco en général et spécialement à l'Etat membre en cause pour qu'ils respectent la Convention sur les privilèges et immu- nités qu'ils ont signée en vue de préserver la neutralité et l'intégrité de la fonction civile internationale, soit réprouvé en des termes on ne peut plus nets la tendance à une violation systématique par les Etats membres de l'Acte constitu- tif de notre Organisation. Tous, cependant, ont tenu à encourager les efforts dé- ployés par le Directeur général en vue de garantir les principes fondamentaux qui fondent notre raison d'espérer en la coopération internationale.
39.13 Le projet de résolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 vous invite à permettre au Direc- teur général de disposer des moyens matériels et moraux indispensables à la mise en oeuvre d'une noble politique ; voilà l'unique dimension politique - s'il y en a une - de ce projet de résolution. Il s'agit simplement d'une dimension politique saine, logique, réaliste, inattaquable. Cette dimension politique nous paraît par- faitement saine dans la mesure où elle ne vise qu'à servir les intérêts majeurs de l'ensemble de la communauté internationale en dissuadant tous les pays qui, grands ou petits, avancés ou moins avancés, auraient tendance à jouer impunément aux hors-la-loi en choisissant, parce que quelque intérêt national ponctuel le commande, de ne pas observer les conventions et autres accords internationaux qu'ils ont cependant volontairement et librement signés. Cette dimension politique est logique parce qu'elle consacre les liens à la fois juridiques, moraux et fonc- tionnels existant entre le Conseil exécutif et la Conférence générale ; en effet, en adoptant massivement et sans amendement le projet de résolution qui vous est soumis, vous affirmerez votre indomptable volonté de poursuivre la démarche posi- tive engagée par ceux qui ont eu pour responsabilité de vous représenter depuis la vingtième session de la Conférence générale. Cette dimension politique est au sur- plus réaliste dans la mesure où, au lendemain de la reconduction du mandat du Di- recteur général, elle offre une garantie de bon fonctionnement du Secrétariat au sein duquel la confiance du personnel en son chef sera sans faille, au sein duquel la quiétude de chaque fonctionnaire se renforcera, et ce tout naturellement au seul bénéfice de l'efficacité dans le travail. Enfin, cette dimension politique est inattaquable parce que, comme je l'ai déjà dit, elle vise à défendre des prin- cipes et des dispositions qui ne sont pas propres à l'Unesco, puisqu'on retrouve leur équivalent dans les constitutions et les statuts de toutes les organisations internationales, à commencer par l'Organisation des Nations Unies elle-même.
39.14 En conclusion, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais vous dire qu'un commentaire détaillé, paragraphe par paragraphe, du projet de réso- lution soumis à votre approbation ne me semble plus indispensable. Tout au plus dois-je faire remarquer le sens de la mesure et l'attitude parfaitement respon- sable dont ont fait preuve ses coauteurs. En effet, et je le dis tout haut, nous n'avons nullement cherché à nuire à qui que ce soit en nous engageant à défendre la vérité ; nous n'avons nullement cherché à ternir la dignité de qui que ce soit en exigeant le respect scrupuleux de l'Acte constitutif de notre Organisation. Nous n'avons nullement cherché à épouser - et encore moins à raviver - quelque querelle que ce soit entre les différentes idéologies, dans la mesure où notre intérêt à nous autres, coauteurs appartenant au Tiers Monde, nous commande de con- tribuer au renforcement de l'entente et de la coopération entre l'Est et l'Ouest, afin de faciliter et de dynamiser notre développement. En Afrique, nous n'avons appris à adorer que nos propres ancêtres. C'est dire, Monsieur le Président, Mes- dames et Messieurs, que les auteurs du projet de résolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 n'ont oeuvré que pour la défense des fondements éthiques, juridiques et moraux de
1'Unesco, ainsi que des attributions et des responsabilités de son Directeur géné- ral, telles que les définit le paragraphe 5 de l'article VI de l'Acte constitutif.
39.15 Puisse cette ferme assurance, Mesdames et Messieurs, vous inciter à voter résolument, sans le moindre amendement, le texte qui vous est proposé. Je termine cette introduction en demandant formellement que le vote qui interviendra au terme de ce débat se fasse par appel nominal. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
40. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. I give the floor to the delegate of Nigeria.
41.1 Mr EDWIN (Nigeria): Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the Nigerian delegation, I wish to support draft resolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 which has been so ably introduced by my friend, the acting leader of the Ivory Coast delegation, and to commend it for adoption by the General Conference.
41.2 The question at issue here is more important for the central and far-reaching point of principle at stake than for such of its facts as are known at present. In some ways, facts, other than the fact of the particular happening, are irrelevant.
41.3 ‘The issue, rather, is whether or not an international civil servant - any international civil servant - enjoying immunity long accepted and guaranteed by the international community can forfeit that immunity, other than by its being waived by the proper authority - in the case of this Organization, by the Director- General. Indeed, can a Member State - any Member State - which on admission to Unesco has freely accepted the Constitution of this Organization and the various instruments and agreements which regulate its work in such a case, do other than first seek a waiver of such immunity, before proceeding to judicial action against its national who is a protected member of the Secretariat. The Government of Nigeria does not accept that any Member State can do so, or ought to be allowed to Яо во. This is why, Mx President, my delegation is a co-sponsor of draft тевоти- tion 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 and will vote for it if it comes to that. And this is why, Mr President, we had already drafted a resolution of like import, which we aban- doned when we realized that there existed another such resolution already in a more advanced state of preparation than our own.
41.4 In his introductory statement to the general policy dabate, the Director- General informed the Conference briefly of the efforts he had made to reach a settlement of this problem since it arose some eight months ago and I am grateful to the distinguished delegate of the Ivory Coast for recalling so vividly all that had happened before. The Director-General has held a number of consultations, and the matter has furthermore been formally placed before the Executive Board at its two sessions held in the intervening period. Regrettably, these efforts have been unavailing.
41.5 The draft resolution before us does not seek to criticize, nor to condemn: it seeks, rather, to approve the efforts of persuasion which have so far been made, and it seeks to encourage the Director-General further along this road. Now, some delegations may feel that the draft resolution does not go far enough. They would probably argue that a clear infringement of the obligations of Member States, after eight months of unsuccessful, patient persuasion, ought to be more severely treated in a draft resolution. The Nigerian delegation does not quite agree, for we believe that there is still time for the Member State concerned, with whom my country has the most rapidly expanding relations, to think again, for its own sake and for the sake of all of us, for the sake of our Organization - as did two other Member States in roughly identical circumstances.
41.6 I have been careful to choose such words as would make it plain that this Nigerian position would have applied with equal force no matter which country was involved. Let me therefore say, Sir, that the group of co-sponsors in which we find ourselves has no special significance for us. Indeed, the spread of the nations co-sponsoring the draft resolution speaks for itself, and I would not have referred to this had I not learnt that the presence of one or two co-sponsors had been, or might be, troublesome to some delegations.’ ‘Suffice it to say, Sir, that the government I represent - and successive Nigerian Governments for that matter - is not in the habit of consulting other Member States before taking its own posi- tion, not to speak of taking instructions from other Member States. I hope there- fore that, if any delegations are worried about some co-sponsors, they will rest assured that this draft resolution is of African origin and does not in any way derive from, or relate to, great power rivalries.
41.7 Mr President, if the draft resolution is not adopted, it might erroneously create the impression that the supreme organ of Unesco did not wish to support its principal official”-"the Director-General” -"in"his’ brave efforts колите up to’ his oath of office: to uphold the Organization's Constitution. Worse, it would also seem that an acceptable precedent had been created, and I shudder at the thought that similar incidents might well increase thereafter. But worst of all, Mr President, our failure to adopt this very minimum and mild expression of prin- ciple and of support for the Director-General, would signal to the very devoted civil servants of this Organization - and, in time, to those in the other organi- zations of the United Nations family, and in extra-United Nations regional group- ings as well - that when the crunch does come, and regardless of what the other heads of organizations may do, the supreme bodies of those organizations may well leave them to their fate. The morale of these fine people, on whom modern inter- governmental relations depend so much, would suffer. Sir, the immunity of inter- national civil servants was designed to protect rather more than the Emperor's new clothes.
41.8 TI should like to conclude, Mr President, by recalling the appeal of my Minister, the leader of our delegation, to all Member States, in particular the world powers, to respect and to guarantee the integrity and independence of the international civil service. I thank you, Sir.
42. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the delegate of the German Democratic Republic.
43.1 М. KAEMPF (République démocratique allemande) .- 38 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, la délégation de la République démocratique allemande s'oppose très énergiquement à l'adoption du projet de réso- lution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15. Elle votera contre ce texte, et cela pour les raisons sui- vantes : ce projet de résolution se fonde sur une présentation complètement unila- térale et non objective des faits et constitue une ingérence grave de la part d'une organisation internationale dans les affaires intérieures, y compris dans le système judiciaire, d'un Etat membre de l'Organisation.
43.2 Conformément à la section 19 de la Convention sur les privilèges et immu- nités des institutions spécialisées du 21 novembre 1947, les fonctionnaires inter- nationaux jouissent de l'immunité de juridiction exclusivement pour les actes ac- complis par eux en leur qualité officielle. Sans doute personne ne souhaite pré- tendre ici que la collaboration avec des services secrets fait partie de ces actes : une telle collaboration serait en complète contradiction avec la mission de toute organisation internationale. Nous nous refusons résolument à couvrir, volontairement ou involontairement, des activités de haute trahison et des acti- vités exercées au profit de services secrets.
43.3 Le projet de résolution se réfère à la disposition de l'Acte constitutif qui stipule que les fonctionnaires du Secrétariat ne doivent, dans l'accomplissement de leurs devoirs, demander ni recevoir d'instructions d'aucun gouvernement ni d'au- cune autorité étrangère à l'Organisation. Il va de soi que cette disposition s'ap- plique également à la collaboration avec des services secrets dirigée contre d'autres Etats membres ou contre l'Organisation.
43.4 Nous ne retrouvons pas dans ce projet de résolution la confirmation du droit souverain et même de l'obligation de tout Etat membre de prendre des mesures néces- saires et effectives pour lutter contre les atteintes à sa sécurité et aux activi- tés que mène l'Organisation pour s'acquitter des tâches que lui assigne son Acte constitutif.
43.5 La délégation de la République démocratique allemande ne peut s'empêcher de constater que le projet de résolution présenté crée inutilement dans cette en- ceinte une atmosphère de confrontation qui nuit au travail de l'Organisation.
43.6 En conclusion, Monsieur le Président, j'appuie la proposition du délégué de la Côte d'Ivoire tendant à ce que le vote sur le projet de résolution se fasse par appel nominal, conformément à l'article 84, paragraphe 2, du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
44. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. I give the floor to the delegate of New Zealand.
45.1 Mr TURNOVSKY (New Zealand): Thank you, Mr President. New Zealand co-sponsored draft resolution
21 C/PLEN/DR.15 with the deepest regret. We had hoped that the matter forming the substance of this draft resolution would have been satisfactorily resolved before it reached the stage where it became a subject of contention at this Gen- eral Conference session. Right until the last moment, we fervently hoped that some solution could be found, and we would have rejoiced if it had been possible to withdraw the draft resolution - as I am sure the other co-sponsors would have done. Alas, our hopes have not been fulfilled.
45.2 Mr President, as a small peaceful faraway country, New Zealand does not make its voice heard lightly on issues which may prove to be controversial. It is con- trary to the nature of New Zealand to act in a provocative manner in international relations. Our policy has always been one of conciliation, of finding peaceful solutions to difficult problems.
45.3 On the other hand, Mr President, New Zealand is totally committed to uphold- ing the rule of law and the human rights of the individual. This is the way we conduct ourTaffairsivithin our om country and this fs theTonly basis on which ve believe relations between nations and within the framework of an international organization like Unesco should be conducted.
45.4 As the second country to sign the Constitution of Unesco, thirty-four years ago, New Zealand has always upheld the integrity of our great Organization. We cannot condone the failure of a Member State, any Member State, to comply with its obligations, freely entered into under the Constitution of Unesco. As the leader of our delegation stated in his speech during the general policy debate, we re- gard with distaste the action taken by a Member State to detain an international civil servant employed by our Organization and to disregard the diplomatic immun- ity to which he is entitled under the Convention to which every Member State is required to accede upon becoming a member of our Organization. We believe we owe
1397   our fullest support to the Director-General in his endeavours to ensure the re- lease of the official in question and”his return to Headquarters in Paris “so that he can resume his duties.
45.5 We wish to express our admiration for the Director-General's determination to uphold the inviolability of Unesco"s Constitution which is essential for the proper conduct of the affairs of our Organization. Hence, we are obliged to -sup- port this draft resolution, much as we would have wished that it would have proved unnecessary. However, the records of the Executive Board made it perfectly clear that, in the absence of a solution being found, the matter would have to be brought before the General Conference, the sovereign organ of Unesco. And this has now proved to be unavoidable.
45.6 Mr President, I need hardly stress that our co-sponsorship of the draft resolution is based on our support for a fundamental principle enshrined in the Constitution of Unesco and is not based on political considerations directed against a ‘particular Member ‘State. ‘Our “stance would be no ‘different if similar circumstances arose concerning any other Member State whose actions might be in conflict with the obligations it had entered into when undertaking to accede to the Constitution of our Organization. Thank you, Mr President.
46. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. I now call оп the ‘delegate of the Union of Soviet SocialistRepublics.
(47.1) Mr PIRADOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian): Thank you, Mr President. The delegation of the Soviet Union has already expressed its deep regret to the General Conference that a certain group of countries should have decided, towards the close of this successful General Conference, to bring up for discussion a ques- tion which, as was clear beforehand, could not but create an atmosphere of confrontation and mistrust between the different groups of countries and disrupt what I might describe as the constructive and useful work of our Conference. The hypocrisy of some of the sponsors of the draft resolution under discussion is indicated by the fact that the United States of America, one of the co-sponsors, has still not signed the 1947 Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations Specialized Agencies.
(47.2) It is also noteworthy that certain countries which had originally co-sponsored this draft resolution immediately withdrew their support on realizing what was involved. Draft resolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 was put together in a hurry, and is open to criticism, both from the legal point of view and in regard to substance. The sponsors take a one-sided and extremely biased view both of the Constitution and of the 1947 Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations Specialized Agencies and also of the fact that a citi- zen of the German Democratic Republic has been arrested. CAU Firstly, according to the Convention of 21 November 1947, already mentioned more than once, the immunity enjoyed by officials of the Specialized Agencies is not absolute but functional, as stated in the Convention, i.e. it applies only to acts performed by staff members in their official capacity. This is stated absolutely clearly in Section 19 of the Convention. This means that citizens holding senior posts as international officials are exempted from the jurisdiction of their country in respect to the performance of their officials functions only. In that respect only. In all other respects, the state con- tinues to exercise jurisdiction over its citizens or, in the case in point, its citizen. Hence to raise the question of a citizen of the German Democratic Republic at the General Conference constitutes flagrant interference in the internal affairs of a Member State of the Organization. Can espionage ever be regarded as forming part of the duties of an inter- national official. Of course not. The sponsors of the draft resolution, for some reason best known to themsleves, carefully avoid mentioning this side of the question, and say nothing at all.about the trúe nature of the "Stulz affair". In view of this, we cannot but react with humour, sad humour it is true, to the statement that the authors of the draft resolution - to quote their words - are "deeply concerned" to learn of the arrest of Mr Stulz.
(47.4) As regards the statement of the co-sponsors that the immunity enjoyed by that staff member has never been waived and that such "violations" - I am still quoting the resolu— tion - "of commitments seriously undermine the independence of the international civil service", the co-sponsors should acquaint themselves with the 1947 Convention on the Pri- vileges and Immunities of the Specialized Agencies, Section 22 of which states that "pri- vileges and immunities are granted to officials in the interests of the Specialized Agen- ciesoniy, andcnot for... personal benefit ло
(47.5) As those present are well aware, this section of the Convention not € 7 gives the United Nations Specialized Agencies certain rights but also, it should be stressed, states that those agencies shall have the right and the duty to waive tt immunity of any official in any case where immunity would impede the course of
(476) Draft resolut 21_C/PLEN/DR.15, some reason, makes n rention - these ex- tremely important provisions of the Conver 1, which h ad E bearing C the question we are discussing here today Nor does it mention simple i we < fact that Mr Stulz ¢ Ce a El violation both of the Constitution and o 1 risions of the Convention by establishing contact with the secret s which, as you know, was clearly proved by the results of the stigati ‹ ed out by the competent authorities of the German I y 1 which Stulz himself admitted. ervice о 1 reign = ‎ع -< 20231
(47.7) This de ‎ال root legal 1 1 contai d in the draft resolu- tion, and also of the complete >rroneous Eh n ST each. ead of accusing the person who committed the ni y accuse ate ugh Stulz had set out to work against the state by wl h he was sen n > orders « that same state. And the most absurd confabulation of all appears in the as >lause of the operative part of the draft resolution, where it is proposed that a person « cially condemned for es- pionage against his country should be sent ack:to France . allowed to w for Unesco as a senior official.
(47.8). "Lastiy, why did th £ SE the à resolution to such extraordinary prog ons what is in ct a trivial” m virtually no one? 5 ponsors incidentally ar thistise call-tothe attentioriof +] members lelegations include no ist countries or the Arab or Asiatic hf I even in a plenary meetin is evident t someone was determin to find pretext, however trivial, for disrupting the extreme ~onstructive, business-like -mosph 2 Of the Belgrade Conference by ig political à outes n wedge groups of states and bringing our Conferen Forts to prevent this from happening, th have ind "de ded in aim. And if tomorrow, or perhaps € tries well-known for thei ceaseless attac} 1 Une cast no anization, instead of speaki t constructive spirit h wenty rst sessic C 1e Gen- eral Conference, we s notiche. to blame. The German Democratic Republic, come er je. Juri stion 0 h Republic. to the General Conference have stat heir views on this subject, and the in our opinion, even this evening the information a o number of coun-
(47.9) For the reasons given e ution 21 C/PLEN/DR:15: Thank you, Mr. President.
48. The PRESIDENT: Thank “you very much.” I give’ the floor to the delegate of Senegal.
49.1 М. THIAM (Sénégal) .- Monsieur le Président, je vous remercie beaucoup. Monsieur le Président, j'ai suivi avec une attention particulière et un intérêt soutenu mais aussi, je dois le dire, avec un certain agacement, le débat qui vient de se dérouler sur le projet de résolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15. Je voudrais, Monsieur le Président, avec votre per- mission, apporter ma contribution à cet échange de vues. Je le ferai en me situant au seul niveau des principes, en laissant les querelles de politique politicienne à ceux que la vérité des principes effraie à un point tel qu'ils ont choisi de se draper dans les plis de la rhétorique évasive des procès d'intention et de la fal- sification des faits pour occulter les vrais problèmes, pour interdire la bonne intelligibilité du problème qui nous occupe et pour jeter la confusion dans les esprits et égarer la plupart des Etats membres. Spécialistes de la confusion qu'ils sont, ils ont su tromper les gens. Car, Monsieur le Président, de quoi s'agit-il ? Pour répondre à cette question, je me propose dans un premier temps de dégager la vraie nature, autrement dit l'exacte mesure, de l'enjeu de ce débat. Je passerai, après cela, a l'analyse du contenu du projet de résolution que nous avons à examiner pour préciser son sens. Je terminerai par quelques observations personnelles sur certains arguments que certains des orateurs qui m'ont précédé ont essayé de faire valoir à l'appui de leur thèse. Ce sera pour en démontrer l'in- consistance juridique, l'incohérence dialectique et, sans doute, la faible valeur persuasive.
49.2 Quel est donc, Monsieur le Président, l'enjeu de ce débat ? Monsieur le Pré- sident, je pense que le débat sur le projet de résolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 n'est pas seulement un débat juridique. Il pose aussi un problème de principe, un pro- blème éthique, un problème d'honneur. Il met aussi en jeu une question de vie ou de mort pour notre Organisation ; il met enfin en jeu une question de vie ou de mort pour l'intéressé et pose à ce titre un problème humain.
49.3 Pourquoi, Monsieur le Président, ai-je dit que le projet de résolution 21 C/ PLEN/DR.15 pose un problème de droit ? Parce que, Monsieur le Président, nous li- sons, à la section 19 de la Convention sur les privilèges et immunités des institu- tions spécialisées, que "les fonctionnaires des institutions spécialisées" - dont l'Unesco fait partie - "jouiront de l'immunité de juridiction pour les actes accom- plis par eux en leur qualité officielle (y compris leurs paroles et écrits)". Or    nul ne peut nier que lorsque la personne dont la détention a motivé la rédaction 38 du projet de résolution qui nous est soumis s'est rendue dans son pays, elle exer- gait pleinement ses fonctions de chef de la Division du patrimoine culturel. Elle était à ce titre en possession d'un passeport diplomatique et de ce fait sous la protection des lois et règlements applicables au personnel des Nations Unies et de leurs institutions spécialisées, c'est-à-dire protégée par l'immunité diploma- tique. J'ajoute que dans l'hypothèse même où cette personne aurait commis un quel- congue délit - ce qui reste à prouver - aucune démarche n'a été tentée pour obte- nir la levée de son immunité diplomatique. Pourtant tout le monde sait que l'ar- ticle VI, section 22, de cette même Convention sur les privilèges et immunités stipule que "Chaque institution spécialisée pourra et devra" - il s'agit donc à la fois d'un droit et d'un devoir à la fois - "lever l'immunité accordée à l'un de ses fonctionnaires dans tous les cas où, à son avis, cette immunité empêcherait que justice ne soit faite et où l'immunité peut être levée sans porter préjudice aux intérêts de l'institution spécialisée." Ma question est claire, Monsieur le Président. Je veux qu'on y réponde sans faux-fuyants ni rhétorique savante. Qui a envoyé la lettre demandant la levée d'immunité du fonctionnaire concerné ? A qui l'a-t-on envoyée ? Comment l'a-t-on envoyée ? Où en sont les preuves matérielles ? Voilà les véritables problèmes.
49.4 J'ai dit, Monsieur le Président, que cette affaire posait également un pro- blème de principe. Cela me semble évident. Le principe est le suivant : une organi- sation internationale indépendante a besoin d'une fonction publique indépendante car sans fonction publique indépendante, il ne saurait y avoir d'organisation in- ternationale indépendante. Les auteurs de la Charte des Nations Unies le savaient si bien qu'ils ont tenu à l'affirmer dans les articles 104 et 105 de la Charte. Ainsi, l'Article 104 stipule : "L'Organisation jouit, sur le territoire de chacun de ses Membres, de la capacité juridique qui lui est nécessaire pour exercer ses fonctions et atteindre ses buts." L'Article 105 affirme, quant à lui, dans son paragraphe 1, que "l'Organisation jouit, sur le territoire de chacun de ses Membres, des privilèges et immunités qui lui sont nécessaires pour atteindre ses buts" et poursuit, dans son paragraphe 2 que "les représentants des Membres des Nations Unies et les fonctionnaires de l'Organisation jouissent également des pri- vilèges et immunités qui leur sont nécessaires pour exercer en toute indépendance leurs fonctions en rapport avec l'Organisation”. Or, ces articles de la Charte des Nations Unies sont expressément repris dans l'Article XII - Statut juridique de l'Organisation - de l'Acte constitutif de l'Unesco, qui stipule : "Les disposi- tions des Articles 104 et 105 de la Charte de l'Organisation des Nations Unies relatives au statut juridique de cette Organisation, à ses privilèges et immunités s'appliquent également à la présente Organisation." Ainsi, notre constitution d'une part, d'autre part la constitution des constitutions, c'est-à-dire celle de l'ONU, proclament toutes deux avec force et sans la moindre ambiguîté ce principe de droit international qui est la base, le ciment, le roc, le socle sans lequel il ne saurait y avoir de fonction publique internationale. En effet, comment pour- rait-elle être indépendante si les fonctionnaires internationaux ne se voyaient pas reconnaître et garantir certains privilèges et immunités qui leur sont néces- saires pour l'exercice de leurs fonctions. La section 19 de la Convention sur les privilèges et immunités des institutions spécialisées apporte à cette question cruciale une réponse claire, nette et précise.
49.5 D'autre part, il est dit au paragraphe 5 de l'Article VI de l'Acte constitu- tif de l'Unesco que le Directeur général et le personnel de l'Organisation "ne demanderont ni ne recevront d'instructions d'aucun gouvernement ni d'aucune auto- rité étrangère à l'Organisation” et que "tous les Etats membres de l'Organisation s'engagent à respecter le caractère international des fonctions du Directeur géné- ral et du personnel et à ne pas chercher à les influencer dans l'accomplissement de leur tâche". Ces dispositions, Monsieur le Président, imposent à tous les Etats membres des obligations d'ordre éthique. J'ai déjà dit que cette affaire posait un problème d'éthique. J'ajouterai que ce problème se situe à trois niveaux diffé- rents : au niveau de l'Etat membre concerné ; au niveau du Directeur général ; au niveau de la Conférence généraie.
49.6 Au niveau de l'Etat membre, il ne fait pas de doute que l'éthique a été ba- fouée sur tous les plans par une cascade de faits accomplis par lesquels on a cher- ché délibérément à nous placer dans une situation d'impuissance : fait accompli que l'arrestation d'un haut fonctionnaire du Secrétariat, en l'occurrence M. Stulz ; fait accompli que sa mise en accusation ; fait accompli que l'instruc- tion de son procès ; fait accompli que son emprisonnement ; fait accompli que son jugement ; fait accompli que sa condamnation. Monsieur le Président, la chose est grave, très grave. D'autant plus grave, Mesdames et Messieurs, que lors de sa pre- mière session ordinaire de 1980, tenue à Vienne, du 30 mars au 2 avril, le Comité administratif de coordination du système des Nations Unies, après avoir examiné le problème de la sécurité et de l'indépendance de la fonction publique internatio- nale, à la suite de mesures semblables à celles dont la personne qui nous occupe a été victime, a adopté une déclaration qui a été portée à la connaissance des or- ganes directeurs des institutions du système des Nations Unies et dans laquelle on
38 lit : “Le Comité administratif de coordination a constaté avec inquiétude que cer- tains Etats membres des organisations du système des Nations Unies ont pris, a diverses reprises, des mesures à l'encontre de fonctionnaires internationaux qui portent atteinte à leur sécurité et à l'exercice de leurs fonctions. Ainsi, des fonctionnaires internationaux ont été détenus, arrêtés ou condamnés à des peines d'emprisonnement, sans qu'une demande préalable et motivée fournisse au chef du secrétariat dont ils relèvent les éléments nécessaires pour prononcer, le cas échéant la levée d'immunité qui est l'acte préalable à toute mesure contre des fonctionnaires internationaux par toute autorité nationale. De plus, la possibi- lité n'a pas été donnée aux chefs des secrétariats des diverses organisations d'en- trer en contact avec les fonctionnaires frappés de telles mesures." Je vous rap- pelle, Mesdames et Messieurs, que tout ce qui figure dans les lignes que je viens de lire peut s'appliquer à la lettre au cas que nous étudions.
49.7 Problème d'éthique, ai-je dit aussi, pour le Directeur général. En effet, en tant que chef du Secrétariat, il doit protection à ses agents et doit, partant, assurer leur sécurité et garantir leur indépendance. La section 22 de la Conven- tion sur les privilèges et immunités l'affirme formellement tandis que la déclara- tion du Comité administratif de coordination du système des Nations Unies le rap- pelle clairement, lorsqu'elle proclame que toute atteinte à la sécurité et à l'in- dépendance des fonctionnaires des organisations du système des Nations Unies par un Etat membre constitue une grave atteinte à la coopération internationale et ajoute : "Responsables de la sécurité et de l'indépendance des fonctionnaires pla- cés sous leur autorité, les chefs de secrétariat" -le Directeur général de l'Unesco en l'occurrence - en appellent aux gouvernements pour qu'ils leur apportent leur plein concours pour assurer le respect des principes auxquels tous les Etats membres ont souscrit." Cela veut dire que si le Directeur général fer- mait les yeux sur cette affaire ou feignait seulement de l'ignorer, il manquerait gravement à son devoir ; il violerait le serment qu'il a prononcé le 28 septembre devant la Conférence générale. Mais ce devoir d'intervention incombe également aux Etats membres réunis au sein de la Conférence générale. En effet, en servant l'Unesco, le directeur de la Division du patrimoine culturel servait chacun de ses Etats membres. Nous lui devons à ce titre aide, assistance, protection et sécurité. Nous dérober à ce devoir serait un acte inqualifiable au plan moral. C'est pour cela que j'ai dit que pour nous Africains, pour qui l'honneur compte encore, ce problème po- sait également un véritable problème d'honneur.
49.8 Monsieur le Président, j'affirme en effet que ce serait manquer à notre de- voir, après l'appel que nous ont déjà lancé le Conseil exécutif et le Directeur général, que de désavouer toutes les initiatives qu'ils ont prises en notre nom, avec notre accord, avec notre soutien, avec nos encouragements. Cela signifierait en clair que nous leur retirerions notre confiance après leur avoir décerné à juste titre des éloges dont l'humanité tout entière et nos gouvernements sont les premiers à se féliciter. Voici pourquoi j'ai dit qu'il y allait de la vie ou de la mort de l'Unesco. Que l'on me dise, en effet, ce que vaudrait réellement une orga- nisation internationale qui aurait accepté sans rien dire que ses fonctionnaires soient bafoués, arrêtés, jetés en prison, condamnés, accusés pour des raisons fal- lacieuses, que son Directeur général et son Conseil exécutif soient désavoués après avoir agi sur les instructions des Etats membres.
49.9 Enfin, Monsieur le Président, les nouvelles qui circulent sur les conditions de détention du fonctionnaire dont il est question méritent la plus grande atten- tion. Sa santé est, à ce qu'on dit, déjà atteinte. Sa volonté, comme le prouvent les correspondances contradictoires qu'il nous a adressées, commence à chanceler. Pour qui connaît cet homme frêle, cet homme doux et paisible, le cauchemar d'une détention austère peut à n'en pas douter être mortel. Voilä pourquoi j'ai dit qu'en filigrane, le problème qui se pose à nous est celui de la vie ou de la mort d'un homme, donc un problème éminemment humain. Je souhaite qu'aucun d'entre nous ne l'oublie lorsqu'il exprimera tout à l'heure son opinion lors du vote qui va conclure ce débat.
49.10 Mesdames et Messieurs, le projet de résclution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 dont nous sommes saisis est une réponse à la situation que je viens de décrire. Il est cons- titué de six considérants et d'un dispositif de six paragraphes. Les trois pre- miers considérants concernent les normes et les instruments en cause ; le qua- trième fait un historique sommaire de la question, tandis que les cinquième et sixième évoquent les violations des principes juridiques qui fondent et justifient le dispositif. Comme on peut le constater, ce dispositif s'articule autour de trois axes : les trois premiers paragraphes donnent une appréciation sur l'action déjà menée par le Directeur général et le Conseil exécutif pour tenter de parvenir a une solution satisfaisante de ce problème ; les deux paragraphes suivants s'adressent plus précisément au Directeur général, à qui il est demandé de pour- suivre ses efforts afin de parvenir à un räglement de ce douloureux problème ; enfin le dernier paragraphe s'adresse à l'Etat membre concerné, auquel il est de- mandé de trouver une solution juste au cas de la personne victime de son arbi- traire. Comme vous pouvez le constater, les auteurs de ce texte se sont soigneuse- ment gardés de nommer le pays et le fonctionnaire concernés et d'évoquer, même de
1402   façon allusive, la fonction exacte de l'intéressé. De plus, le projet de résolu- 38 tion ne contient aucune référence à un système politique donné, aucune allusion à un groupe électoral donné, aucun jugement de valeur sur un Etat membre qui aurait pu être nommé ou interpellé. Mieux, j'affirme que ce texte ne tire même pas toutes les conséquences objectives du débat intervenu au sein du Conseil exécutif et du- rant les séances plénières de la Conférence générale sur cette affaire, car il aurait alors censuré les mesures prises par l'Etat membre et l'aurait condamné en termes particulièrement énergiques. Ce texte, disons-le, ne contient aucune allu- sion au défi arrogant et humiliant que représente pour l'Unesco la politique des faits accomplis successifs devant lesquels l'Organisation, le Conseil exécutif et la Conférence ont été délibérément placés. Enfin, il ne mentionne même pas les violations flagrantes des droits de l'homme que cet acte illustre avec éclat, et les atteintes graves à la coopération internationale qu'il comporte.
49.11 Où est, dès lors, la manoeuvre politique ? Il faut mépriser les pays sous- développés, il faut les mépriser souverainement pour estimer qu'ils ne sont pas capables d'assumer seuls leurs responsabilités. Monsieur le Président, ma déléga- tion refuse le chantage, le chantage auquel veut nous soumettre un pays qui, spé- cialiste de la confusion, essaie de faire croire que c'est nous qui sommes à l'ori- gine de la situation qui existe. Il aurait suffi simplement d'un effort pour ré- pondre à l'appel que nous avions lancé à l'Etat concerné pour que ce problème ne vînt jamais devant la Conférence générale. Faire croire que chaque désaccord que l'on marque avec un Etat membre doit être perçu comme un jugement de valeur porté sur son système politique c'est jouer un jeu dangereux, employer une dialectique scabreuse qui porte en filigrane la mort des institutions internationales et la fin des relations internationales. Je crois savoir qu'on a exercé des pressions sur beaucoup d'Etats membres et sur la plupart des pays appartenant à une région qu'un délégué a évoquée, en leur demandant de quitter la salle pour ne pas partici- per au vote. Mais qu'on sache bien que nous qui sommes là, sommes prêts à partici- per au combat pour les droits de l'homme partout où cela est nécessaire, et qu'au- cune puissance, quelle qu'elle soit, ne pourra jamais, absolument jamais, nous imposer sa volonté. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
50.7 The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel obliged to remind you that time is running short. We have many speakers on our list and I should be most grateful if statements could be shortened. I now give the floor to the delegate f Zaire. SAM. BOGUO (Zaïre) = Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Votre appel sera entendu : je serai très bref. Mon pays est coauteur du projet de résolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 et, bien entendu, il le soutient avec force et détermination. En cosignant ce projet, il a eu pour seul souci d'apporter son appui le plus ferme et le plus total a la dé- fense d'un des principes fondamentaux auxquels chacun des Etats membres de l'Unesco a souscrit librement en adhérant à cette organisation. Il est inutile que je fasse l'historique de ce projet de résolution, puisque le distingué délégué de la Côte d'Ivoire l'a déjà fait. Je n'ai plus rien à ajouter aux arguments vigou- reux et irréfutables du délégué du Sénégal. En proposant et en appuyant ce projet de résolution, nous cherchons seulement à donner au Directeur général tous les moyens dont il a besoin pour exercer ses hautes fonctions à la tête du Secrétariat de l'Organisation. Que penseriez-vous, en effet, d'un gouvernement qui resterait sans réaction alors que ses ressortissants sont arrêtés arbitrairement par des forces étrangères ? Il serait tout simplement considéré comme faillissant à son devoir et à son honneur. Ce devoir et cet honneur lui imposent de prendre la dé- fense de ses ressortissants ou, tout au moins, de chercher à s'informer complète- ment des raisons pour lesquelles ils sont arrêtés. Il en va de même, mutatis mutan- dis, pour le cas qui nous occupe aujourd'hui. Or, jusqu'à ce jour, le Directeur général n'a fait que tenter de savoir pourquoi le fonctionnaire en question a été arrêté. Il n'a reçu aucune demande de levée de l'immunité diplomatique du fonction- naire arrêté et condamné. Le projet de résolution soumis à la Conférence générale n'ayant nullement pour objet de diviser la Conférence générale en deux blocs et visant uniquement à faire respecter des principes auxquels chacun des Etats ici présents a librement souscrit, le Zaïre le soutiendra donc jusqu'au bout et votera pour lui. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
52. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. Our next speaker is the delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany. He has the floor.
53.1 Mr WITTE (Federal Republic of Germany): Thank you, Mr President. I shall also be very brief in response to your appeal. Mr President, my government supports draft resolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 without any reservation. We do so for the simple reason that any international organization has the right and the duty to take the necessary action when a Mem- ber State violates its obligations towards the Organization and also to protect
1403   the privileges and immunities of its staff members, no matter, Mr President, which Member State is involved.
53.2 Mr President, in supporting this resolution, we wish to encourage all action already undertaken or to be undertaken in future by the Director-General and by the Executive Board with the aim of achieving the solution described very clearly in the last operative paragraph of our text, and this is why we shall vote in favour of the resolution. Thank you, Mr President.
54. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. I now call on the delegate of Haiti.
55.1 М. de RONCERAY (Haiti) .- Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, la délégation de Haïti voudrait exprimer sa profonde préoccupation au sujet de cette regrettable situation créée au sein de notre Organisation par un Etat membre qui a adhéré à l'Acte constitutif de l'Unesco et s'est engagé à respecter les priviléges et immu- nités garantis aux fonctionnaires de cette Organisation. La délégation de Haiti respecte la souveraineté de chaque Etat et n'entend nullement s'ingérer dans les affaires intérieures de qui que ce soit, mais elle juge inadmissible le fait qu'un Etat membre de l'Unesco, quel qu'il soit, porte atteinte aux principes de base de l'Organisation, à son autonomie, en frappant unilatéralement des fonctionnaires dans l'exercice de leurs droits et de leurs attributions. La délégation de Haïti déplore l'attitude adoptée vis-à-vis de ce fonctionnaire du Secrétariat qui a été arrêté dans son pays d'origine, jugé et condamné à trois années d'emprisonnement sans qu'ait été levée au préalable l'immunité dont il jouit. Nous sommes convain- cus, Monsieur le Président, que l'Etat en question fera de son mieux pour rappor- ter cette décision préjudiciable à la bonne marche de notre Organisation.
55.2 Ma délégation invite donc la Conférence générale à adopter le projet de réso- lution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 présenté brillamment par le délégué de la Côte d'Ivoire et cosigné par 14 autres Etats membres. Elle espère que chaque Etat membre apportera au Directeur général le soutien dont il a besoin, non seulement pour obtenir la libération de ce fonctionnaire et son retour à son poste, mais aussi pour éviter que pareilles violations de l'Acte constitutif ne se renouvellent à l'avenir. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
56. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. I give the floor to the delegate of Guatemala.
(57.1) Mr PUTZEYS-ALVAREZ (Guatemala) (Translation from the Spanish): 38 Mr President, it is important to be clear about the precise significance of this draft resolution, which was submitted by a number of countries and presented by the delegate of Ivory Coast. There are apparently two conflicting views, which, it has been suggested could result in splitting the Conference into two camps: on the one hand, those who con- sider it to be a case of interference in the internA1 affairs of a "Member State, and on the other, those who ‘Insist on" the right of the Organization to follow "its usual practice. But the situation that has arisen is the result of a whole series of developments that could: not have any other outcome. The problem facing our Organization is that of the atti- tude it should take to the case of an official who has been arrested despite the fact that he enjoys immunity. It we examine the situation confronting the Director-General, we shall see that he took the only possible course. The Director-General has to act according to certain regulations and obey certain rules, and he has a moral responsibility towards the officials of the Organization; the measures he took were dictated not only by his powers, but also by the laws regulating the Organization. It is therefore not a matter of judging the substance of the problem in terms of failure to find the right solution. We have been told that there had been no approach either formal or informal to the Director-General to waive the immunity of the official in question. The Director-General could not have done other than he did. If he had not acted in accordance with the regulations, and had not fulfilled his obligations, this Conference would have called him to account for his actions. The Executive Board made an extremely judicious, careful and cautious analysis of all the steps the Director-General had taken, and expressed not only their agreement with his action but also their support of it. More than that, the Executive Board, through its Bureau and its Chairman, continued to seek an amicable solution.
(57.2) This is a situation in which we must take account not only of legal factors but of moral factors also, and even of common-sense considerations. We should support the action taken by the Director-General, since he discharged his duties scrupulously. He could not have acted in any other way. We should also approve the action of the Executive Board in making a detailed analysis of the situation. To sum up, therefore, I fully support the draft resolution before us. Thank you very much.
58. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the delegate of Bangladesh.
59.1 Mr MOMIN (Bangladesh): Thank you, Mr President. I shall be very brief indeed. It is purely out of concern for respect for international law that the delegation of Bangladesh feels impelled to respond to the persuasive appeal made in the draft resolution to the Member State concerned to release the international civil servant in question.
59.2 The points of law involved have been elaborately stated by the distinguished representatives who spoke before me. You will bear with me, Mr President, if I make the general point that one of the bases of international intercourse is the immunity of international civil servants or accredited representatives of sov- ereign states from let or hindrance in the discharge of their legitimate duties. If this right is not respected, the smooth functioning of international co- operation becomes, to say the least, difficult.
59.3 The facts of the case have likewise been elaborately stated. The crucial point would appear to be whether waiver was requested and obtained. On the evi- dence presented to us, it would seem that this was not the case. In the absence of a waiver, the immunity of the international civil servant would appear to stand. It is on those grounds that we have associated ourselves with the present appeal for the observance of international law and the release of the staff mem- ber concerned. Like several other distinguished representatives who spoke before me, I should like to stress that we have very friendly relations with the Member State concerned, and it is by no means with a political motive that we have sought the floor:
59.4 In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to express our admiration for the efforts made by the Director-General to secure the release of the staff member con- cerned so that this Organization of which we are all members may continue to carry out its functions properly. The Director-General has our fullest support in his continuing efforts to obtain respect for the point of law involved and to secure the staff member's release. Thank you, Mr President.
60. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. The delegate of Czechoslovakia has the floor.
61.1 Mr SMID (Czechoslovakia): Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, in the course of our deliberations during the past five weeks of the General Conference session, the Czechoslovak delegation increasingly felt encouraged that, notwithstanding the complexities of the present international situation, the Conference was able to retain the climate of accommodation that has always been so essential to Unesco's activities. We joined in the hope that this spirit might continue throughout the whole session.
61.2 However, the draft resolution we are faced with in document 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 spoils that picture and poisons the desired atmosphere. I do not exclude the
1405   possibility that the sponsors of the draft - or, to be more precise, some of them - might have been guided by purely ethical considerations and by the conviction that the submission of “Chis draft resolution “was "the" right "thing oY do "But “Che very fact that this draft resolution is before us is astonishing.’ I have been associ- ated with the work of the United Nations and its various organizations for more than 20 years now, and I do not remember a single instance when a draft resolution dealing with such a subject was submitted to the General Assembly, despite the fact that there are sometimes cases involving Secretariat staff and an issue of espionage.
61:3 flocking at thisidraftiresclution now, I woquidisay first of all that it ton- tains elements of confrontation and constitutes inadmissible interference in the internal affairs of a Member State. On examining the text of the draft resolution more closely, I must say that it is unilaterally conceived. It describes facts which are not fully known to all Member States, and it interprets these facts in an evidently one-sided manner. Finally, it gives an impression of obstreperous disregard for the legitimate security of a sovereign Member State, and of an almost incredible notion that the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the Specialized Agencies should cover espionage activities.
61.4 Mr President, my delegation is sincerely convinced that the draft resolution does not serve the interests of Unesco. It. can only bring harm to the Organization. In fact, nobody, I repeat, nobody can benefit from the adoption of this text except those few circles whose attitude to Unesco has often been so negative and whose criticism of the Organization is based on a scarcely camouflaged hatred of the con- tribution Unesco is making to the cause of peace and international understanding. Mr President, the Czechoslovak delegation will vote against this draft resolution. Thank you, Sir.
62.. The, PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. I now call on the delegate of Chile.
(63.1) Mr BERGUNO (Chile) (Translation from the Spanish): Mr President, I wish to make only three comments on the subject of draft resolu- tion 21 C/PLEN/DR.15, submitted by a group of African countries and by countries of other regions, including Ecuador and Venezuela, from our region. Firstly, I should like to point out that-the Director-Ceneral, after the MemberiStátes had expressed such complete confi- dence in him by re-electing him unanimously and so enabling him to pursue his task, was in duty bound scrupulously to respect the independence of the international civil service.
(63.2) Secondly, international organizations, and more especially the United Nations Organization for Education, Science and Culture, provide the best defence and protection for all states, and more particularly medium-sized and small ones. In order that it may perform this function Member States must fulfil their solemn undertaking to respect the Constitution of Unesco and the other regulations governing its activities.
(6373) Thirdly, the extraordinary statements we have heard here, to the effect that func- tional immunity may be interpreted unilaterally and be restricted or violated by states, cannot fail to cause us deep concern. Views such as these and the opinions of those who maintain that we should not concern ourselves with the human problem of Mr Stulz - which, they say, is of no importance - are undermining the very foundations of our Organization and hampering the work of this General Conference. Thank you very much.
64." "The PRESIDENT: 38 Thank you very much. The delegate of Bulgaria has the floor.
65.1 Mr SAFIROV (Bulgaria): Thank you, Mr President. I must confess to you that I feel a little uneasy at taking the floor immediately after a delegate who would have done better not tovhave.: taken vad all:
65.2 Mr President, the delegation of the People's Republic of Bulgaria intends to cast its vote against draft resolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 in line with its profound conviction that this draft, if adopted, would constitute interference in the in- ternal affairs of a sovereign Member State. At the same time, we should like to express our concern that similar resolutions might initiate an undesirable prac- tice threatening the necessary conditions for the activities of our Organization tober carried cut постату ава чета+Рау:
65.3 Mr President, may I assure you that my government has the highest esteem for all Unesco and United Nations documents regulating staff problems, but at the same time I have to draw your attention to the fact that nowhere in Unesco's Constitu- tion, in the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the Specialized Agencies, in the Staff Regulations or in any other document, is there or can there be a regulation that speaks in defence of the possible illegal actions that a staff member might commit against his country of origin. In the case now being discussed, we are confronted with high treason, the gravest crime a citizen can commit against his people and his country.
65.4" "In the opinion of my delegation, it is quite obvious, Mr President, that no official of an intergovernmental organization who has vowed to work for the imple- mentation ofits" lofty "ideals can ever-be a "subject" “of” this organization in the sense states attach to this word. During the entire period that he works for the benefit of an organization, each official remains a citizen of his own country, a member of his own people, obeying, from the cradle to the grave, their laws, cus- toms and traditions.
65.5 Mr President, it is our profound belief that there can be no immunity for crimes committed against one's own country and people. Diplomatic immunity such as it exists today since the Vienna Congress, and in fact since time immemorial, provides protection to persons who have been given this right, the right of im- munity only for acts committed or alleged to have been committed against a third country and not, I repeat, not against their own governments.
65.6 Mr President, it is true that according to the Constitution staff members are not allowed to receive instructions from their governments, and we support this stipulation. But, in the case we are now discussing, Mr Stulz did not re- ceive any instructions from his government against Unesco's interests or against the interests of a third Member State. In reality the opposite occurred. Mr Stulz received instructions from a Member State's secret service to act against his own country, the German Democratic Republic. Finally, Mr President, my del- egation takes the liberty to express its regrets that the General Conference should have chosen to discuss such a question at the end of a dynamic and fruitful session whose decisions and recommendations on many questions represent an indis- putable contribution to the cause of peace in the world. I thank you, Mr President.
66. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. I now call on the delegate of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic.
(67.1) Mr MARTYNENKO (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic) (Translation from the Russian): Thank you, Mr President. The delegation of the Ukrainian SSR is resolutely opposed to draft resolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15, submitted by a group of countries, on the grcunds that its aim is at least to infringe the sovereign rights of a Member State of Unesco.
(67.2) “It is quite evident tous that the ‘political purport and significance of this draft resolution are open to criticism, and I shall not dwell on this point. I wish merely to draw attention, as other speakers have already done, to the fact that the legal argument adduced by the sponsors of draft resolution DR.15 is unfounded.
(67.3) It has already been emphasized that the immunity of officials of the United Nations Specialized Agencies, including Unesco, is a functional immunity, as is clear from the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations Specialized Agencies of
21 November 1947. It thus applies only to those acts which are performed by international officials in connection with their actual official functions. There is obviously no need to prove to this audience that espionage by an international official, or complicity in it, has no connection whatever with the work of an international organization, and cannot be regarded either as part of the official duties of a Unesco staff member or as an act per- formed by him in his ‘official capacity. “It is" for this very reason that the Unesco Consti- tution, as already pointed out here, states that staff members "shall refrain from any action which might prejudice their position as international officials". In view of this, Mr President, a Member State has the right to exercise its legal jurisdiction over one of its citizens who, being an international official, has committed a dangerous crime against his country. Failure to recognize this would be tantamount to granting officials of international organizations immunity for crimes committed against their own countries, which would be neither legal nor justifiable.
(67.4) Nor do we belive that there any grounds for saying that it is essential to obtain permission in advance for the detention or arrest of Unesco staff members for acts not connected with their official functions. Neither the Unesco Constitution nor the Conven- tion on the Privileges and Immunities of the Specialized Agencies makes it obligatory for states to consult the Unesco Secretariat on its dealings with its” own citizens who, whilst serving as international officials, commit crimes against their own country. And we know of no other international legal documents requiring such consultation.
(67.5) Some of the co-sponsors, Mr President, have spoken of invoked human rights. Do they 38 seriously believe that to engage in espionage is an inalienable human right? Why was it necessary to perform this cynical comedy, to hold this debate in the course of which people talked about everything except the spying activities of an international official? Thus the case referred to in draft resolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 cannot possibly be treated as one of violation by the state concerned of its international obligations.
(67.6) Our delegation, Mr President, takes the view that the hubbub raised about the case referred to in draft resolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 and the unhealthy atmosphere created in this connection clearly indicate that an attempt is being made not only to infringe the right of states to exercise their sovereignty over their own citizens, which is universal- ly acknowledged, but also to undermine the principles and spirit of international co- operation and cause a rift between the Member States of Unesco, so weakening the authority of this international organization and hampering its normal work.
(67.7) Looking at the draft resolution from the standpoint of international law, we can see that it constitutes nothing else than an attempt at flagrant interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state, and it could scarcely be said to promote the interests of the Unesco Secretariat, since, speaking objectively and factually, if this draft resolution is adopted it will encourage espionage by international officials It might be asked, moreover, what such an international organization will be worth after this.” Thank you, Mr President.
608.5 The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. The delegate of Turkey has the floor.
69.1 Mr INONU (Turkey): Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I take the floor to explain briefly the position of our delegation concerning this very unfortunate yet critical; issue with which our Organization has been confronted for some time now. We find our- selves in effect in a situation described in classical tragedies, where each side appears to defend with equal right positions very dear to it. On one hand, we have a United Nations Specialized Agency defending the constitutional immunity of its functionaries in the performance of their regular duties. To defend these rights is certainly in the interests of all Member States. On the other hand, we have a Member State which believes that it is defending its own sovereign rights. And, as another Member State, we certainly do not wish to interfere in any way in the exercise of these sovereign rights.
69.2 Mr President, in the face of this dilemma, we have from the start of the discussions on the Executive Board supported the Director-General in his efforts to uphold the right of immunity of the functionaries of the Organization, while at the same time hoping earnestly that a constitutional solution satisfactory to both sides will be found soon. Although we are sorry to observe that a solution has not yet been found, our position remains the same. We therefore support draft resolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15, interpreting it in the way we have tried to outline, namely that we hope that it will contribute to the finding of a constitutional solution respecting the rights of all parties concerned. Thank you, Mr President.
70. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. The delegate of Hungary has the floor.
71.1 M. MOD (Hongrie) .- Monsieur le Président, la Hongrie a eu déjà l'occasion d'expliquer sa position devant le Conseil exécutif, mais puisque plusieurs délégations ont jugé nécessaire de revenir sur le problème a la Conférence générale, je me sens obligé, moi aussi, d'exposer à nouveau, quoique brièvement, l'opinion de ma délégation.
71.2 Les auteurs du projet de résolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 soulignent que l'immu- nité des fonctionnaires est une condition indispensable au fonctionnement du ser- vice public international mais ils oublient de préciser dans leur texte que cette immunité ne couvre que les actes accomplis par les fonctionnaires "en leur qualité officielle", pour reprendre les termes même de la Convention sur les privilèges et immunités des institutions spécialisées de 1947. Cette immunité est donc uni- quement fonctionnelle ; elle n'est pas identique à l'immunité diplomatique au sens large de cette expression et elle ne couvre que l'activité officielle du fonctionnaire.
71.3 Je remarquerai aussi que le texte dont nous sommes saisis prend la défense d'intérêts divers et complexes : intérêts de l'Organisation, intérêts du person- nel, etc. Mais un élément y manque : c'est la défense des intérêts des Etats membres, la défense de leur souveraineté. Or, un des soucis majeurs de ceux qui pendant les dernières années de la Deuxième Guerre mondiale ont conçu et jeté les bases des nouvelles institutions internationales était justement de protéger les futurs Etats membres des risques d'intervention extérieure dans les affaires in- ternes des pays.
71.4 Dans la pratique, l'autodéfense est permise aux Etats membres même lorsque ceux-ci garantissent une immunité complète aux fonctionnaires internationaux.
38 Qu'il me soit permis de donner un seul exemple : un accord relatif au Siège de l'Unesco et à ses privilèges et immunités sur le territoire français a été signéen 1954 entre le gouvernement français et l'Unesco. Dans cet accord, la France garantit à certaines catégories de fonctionnaires de rang élevé de l'Unesco uneimmunité entière, sans restriction. Mais l'article 19 précise "Les personnes visées aux paragraphes 1 et 2 du présent article" c'est-à-dire précisément cesfonctionnaires appartenant à ces catégories privilégiées "ne pourront, si elles sont de nationalité française, se prévaloir devant les tribunaux français d'uneimmunité à l'égard de poursuites judiciaires visant des faits étrangers à leurs fonctions".
71.5 Monsieur le Président, je comprends et j'accepte entièrement la position dela France à ce sujet, et à mon avis cette protection est due à tous les Etatsmembres. Or il n'est pas douteux que l'espionnage est une activité étrangère auxfonctions des membres du Secrétariat.
71.6 Voici maintenant ma troisième remarque et le troisième oubli que je constatedans le texte, qui passe sous silence le motif de condamnation du fonctionnaire enquestion. Pourtant l'espionnage est contraire au statut d'un fonctionnaire inter-national et aux règles de conduite prescrites par l'Organisation. En commettantdes actes d'espionnage, un fonctionnaire international viole les règlements del'Organisation de même que les lois de son propre pays. Il est évident que cetteactivité n'est pas couverte par l'immunité diplomatique.
7177 Jusqu'ici tout ceci nous semble assez simple et logique. Mais il est vraiqu'il peut y avoir des cas où intérêts d'un Etat et intérêts internationaux, ou sivous voulez droit national et droit international, peuvent se trouver en contradic-tion, et cela d'autant plus qu'un fonctionnaire international ne devient pas apa-tride ni citoyen d'un organisme supranational théorique du seul fait qu'il tra- vaille au Secrétariat. Il lui reste des droits et des devoirs dans sa patrie.
71.8 Mais à notre avis nous ne sommes pas en présence d'un tel cas de conflit d'intérêts. En effet, l'Unesco ne peut pas avoir intérêt à garder à son service unfonctionnaire qui a utilisé son statut international pour couvrir une activitéd'espionnage, violant non seulement les lois de son pays mais aussi les réglementsde l'Organisation.
71.9 Monsieur le Président, ma conclusion est très simple et découle logiquementde tout ce que je viens de dire : ma délégation ne peut accepter, pour les raisonsque j'ai indiquées, le projet de résolution qui est soumis à la Conférence. D'ail-leurs, les faits sont suffisamment connus pour qu'il soit possible de trouver unesolution satisfaisante et nous considérons ce texte comme superflu. Merci, Mon- sieur le Président.
72. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. The delegate of the United States of America has the floor.
73. Mrs DUKE (United States of America): Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I wish to express my delegation's full support for the actions that the Director-General has taken in order to seek the release of Professor Stulz. The Director-General has acted scrupulously. and with courage and determination to fulfil his responsibilities. Therefore, we urge the full support of draft resolution 21 G/PEEN/DR: 15% STARE you.
74. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. The delegate of Poland now wishes to speak. He has the floor
75.1 M. CZESAK (Pologne).- Merci, Monsieur le Président. La délégation polonaise regrette sincèrement le fait même que le projet de résolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 ait été présenté, sans par- ler de sa teneur. Elle regrette encore plus le débat qu'il a engendré car même si ce projet de résolution n'est pas adopté, il a déjà atteint son but.
75.2 Il est clair nous nous y opposons, mais nous voudrions modestement, à notre tour, faire quelques remarques. Il ne s'agit évidemment pas pour nous d'entrer dans les détails, ni de traiter du cas au fond, car nous considérons qu'il n'y avait pas lieu de le soumettre à la Conférence générale, c'est-à-dire à tous les Etats membres.
75.3 Certains ici ont dit que le projet de résolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 est un texte équivoque, qui ne concerne personne et aucun Etat. Il s'agit 1a d'un commen- taire abstrait et très subjectif : tout le monde sait de qui et" de quoi site
75.4 Nous regrettons plus vivement encore qu'au cours de notre Conférence, la question qui fait l'objet du projet de résolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 ait été soulevée
1410   plusieurs fois, dont deux fois par le Directeur général lui-méme, dans son intro- duction au débat de politique générale et dans sa réponse à ce débat. Nous pen- sions que cela suffisait, mais hélas non ! Je tiens à dire que personne n'a jamais désavoué l'action menée par le Directeur général sur le point qui nous occupe.
75.5 On nous soumet maintenant un projet de résolution qui selon nous envenime les rapports au sein de cette Conférence, où régnait jusqu'ici un climat de colla- boration sereine, favorable à la réalisation de nombreux compromis et à une pleine entente entre les Etats membres. Ce projet de résolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 crée, selon nous, une situation de confrontation entre les Etats membres.
75.6 Je voudrais rappeler aux auteurs de ce projet que l'Unesco, si puissante et respectable qu'elle soit, n'est pas une superpuissance, au-dessus des Etats membres, mais un instrument, de grande valeur internationale il est vrai, au ser- vice de ses membres, un instrument qui a notamment pour mission de faciliter une bonne et harmonieuse collaboration entre les gouvernements dans le domaine de ses compétences.
75.7 Je soulignerai, Monsieur le Président, que conformément à la pratique ac- tuelle des organisations internationales, les fonctionnaires employés par ces orga- nisations, y compris l'Unesco, le sont avec le consentement des gouvernements des pays dont ils sont ressortissants. Etant fonctionnaires, ils doivent assumer leur tâche dans le respect de l'Acte constitutif et des règlements qui leur sont appli- cables. Si un fonctionnaire se prête à des tâches qui sortent de ce cadre, aucune immunité ne peut l'excuser, encore moins le protéger. Les orateurs qui m'ont pré- cédé jusqu'ici ont beaucoup parlé de principes, et puisqu'il est question de cela, nous devons dire qu'il n'existe à notre connaissance aucun règlement au monde qui assure à un fonctionnaire une immunité quelconque s'il agit au détriment de son propre pays. Le délégué de la Côte d'Ivoire, malgré les nombreuses citations qu'il a faites, n'a pas pu prouver le contraire.
75.8 Le projet de résolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 ne tient pas compte du fait qu'un différend à propos d'un fonctionnaire international n'est pas un différend entre un Etat membre et tous les autres Etats membres. Il s'agit donc d'un grave précé- dent entraînant les Etats membres dans une affaire qui va à l'encontre de leurs intérêts. Soyons-en conscients. Nous nous posons la question suivante : à quoi ou à qui cela peut-il bien servir ? Sûrement pas à la bonne entente entre les Etats membres. Sûrement pas à l'Unesco elle-même.
75.9 La délégation polonaise aurait souhaité que ses auteurs retirent le projet de résolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15. Ils n'en veulent rien faire, tout au contraire. Dans ce cas, la délégation polonaise votera contre ce texte par principe, sans entrer dans les détails et discuter du fond de l'affaire. Mais elle en ressent une profonde amertume, persuadée qu'elle est que la Conférence n'a pas à traiter de ce cas, qui entraîne les Etats membres а s'immiscer dans les affaires de l'un d'entre eux. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
767 The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. The delegate of France has the floor.
77-17" M: VALERV (France) == Monsieur le Président, chacun de nous aurait souhaité que ce pénible débat fût évité. Je regrette vivement que, contrairement à ce que nous avions espéré, il n'ait pu en être ainsi, malgré les efforts déployés par le Directeur général avec le plein accord du Conseil exécutif. Cela étant, en tant que représentant du pays hôte de l'Unesco, il est de mon devoir d'apporter mon appui à l'Organisation et au Directeur général dans l'action qu'il poursuit pour animer celle-ci la soutenir et la défendre en défendant le personnel du Secrétariat. En fait, le débat n'est poli- tique que si on veut le rendre tel. A mon sens, il ne s'agit pas d'ingérence dans les affaires intérieures d'un Etat membre dont la souveraineté, comme celle de tous les Etats représentés ici, doit être respectée. Il n'en demeure pas moins qu'en adhérant à l'Unesco, nous souscrivons librement des engagements et qu'il appartient à tous de faire en sorte que nous les respections. Ce n'est pas tou- jours facile ; le pays hôte lui-même en a quelque expérience, mais à cet égard, je voudrais dire que si on lit l'accord conclu entre le gouvernement français et l'Or- ganisation, il faut le lire jusqu'au bout, y compris les procédures prévues pour son application. C'est dans le cadre d'un contrat librement consenti que se situent nos relations avec l'organisation internationale qu'est l'Unesco. Et cette liberté dont, dans une certaine mesure, nous acceptons la limitation, nous en fai- sons le sacrifice au profit de qui ? Au profit de la communauté internationale, et cela est très important.
77.2 Nous sommes donc en présence d'une question de principe qui dépasse le cas particulier en cause, si digne d'attention soit-il. En ce qui concerne ce cas par- ticulier, je fais appel au gouvernement du pays intéressé, envers lequel ne m'animent que des sentiments amicaux, pour qu'il envisage les choses sous cet angle et reprenne avec le Directeur général un dialogue qui permette de le régler.
77.3 Je dirai un dernier mot : ce n'est pas de gaîté de coeur et, je le sais, sans effort sur lui-même, que le Directeur général a mis tout en oeuvre pour accom- plir le devoir qui est le sien et dont nous lui demanderions compte si d'aventure il venait à lui faillir. C'est pourquoi nous devons lui accorder ce soutien dont il a besoin pour poursuivre sa tâche et je dirai qu'en outre je lui exprime ma sympathie et mon admiration. C'est dire, Monsieur le Président, que je voterai en faveur du projet de résolution dont nous sommes saisis.
78. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. The delegate of Italy has the floor.
79.1 M. MATHIEU (Italie) .- Monsieur le Président, en tant que cosignataire du projet de résolution 21 C/ PLEN/DR.15, l'Italie s'associe à la plupart des observations qui ont été formulées jusqu'ici, notamment par les délégués de la Côte d'Ivoire, du Sénégal, du Guate- mala et de la France. Elle s'associe aussi à certaines des considérations émises par les délégués de l'Union soviétique, de la Bulgarie et de la Hongrie, mais pas à toutes. Il est certain que l'immunité dont jouit un fonctionnaire international ne saurait couvrir des crimes de droit commun, ni ceux de haute trahison et d'es- pionnage, que nous ne considérons pas comme des infractions sans importance, bien au contraire ; nous nous étonnons du reste que si un tel crime a été commis, il n'ait été puni que de trois années d'emprisonnement. Mais là n'est pas la ques- tion. Il ne nous appartient pas de décider si le professeur Stulz est ou non cou- pable ; nous ne contestons pas le droit de chaque Etat membre de faire juger n'im- porte lequel de ses ressortissants.
79.2 Ce que nous demandons, c'est seulement que les Etats membres, avant de sou- mettre à la justice un de leurs ressortissants, s'il s'agit d'un fonctionnaire international, respectent eux-mêmes les engagements qu'ils ont librement sous- crits, c'est-à-dire qu'ils suivent la procédure qui est prévue, en demandant avant toute chose la levée de l'immunité du fonctionnaire accusé, et en communiquant au Directeur général les motifs de cette demande, ce qui n'a pas été fait dans le cas qui nous occupe. Nous ne voulons absolument pas nous immiscer dans les affaires intérieures de quelque Etat membre que ce soit, mais nous voulons simplement que les Etats membres respectent leurs propres engagements. Nous avons été accusés de vouloir diviser l'Unesco. Non, Monsieur le Président, nous voulons au contraire unir l'Unesco, car ce n'est que sur la base du droit qu'une communauté internatio- nale peut rester unie, sur la base d'un droit respecté aussi bien dans son esprit que dans sa lettre. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
80. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. The delegate of Uganda has the floor.
81. Mr NTIMBA (Uganda): Thank you, Mr President. Our delegation associates itself with the congratu- lations extended by Member States to the Director-General on the efforts so far made by him to ensure that the immunities and privileges of international civil servants are upheld and respected. My delegation also expresses strong support for the decision by the Executive Board in this connection. A distinguished del- egate has said that the draft resolution sets a bad precedent. My delegation would like to put the counter argument and remind those Member States who wish to oppose the draft resolution that, in so doing, they will be setting a dangerous precedent which, if repeated in future, will traumatize the functioning of this august Organization. In supporting this resolution, Mr President, my delegation echoes the hope expressed by the delegate of New Zealand - that this matter will be resolved amicably without recourse to the submission of resolutions to the plenary. In this context, I am reminded that the deliberations of this Conference have been characterized by a spirit of unanimity and consensus. Mr President, I hasten to say that my government enjoys excellent relations with the state con- cerned. We nevertheless feel constrained to point out that the action taken against the international civil servant is a violation of an internationally ac- cepted convention, which we as Member States have a duty to uphold and to defend. My government therefore expresses the hope that wisdom will prevail and that the country concerned will, in the spirit of international co-operation, reconsider the action it has taken against Professor Stulz and ensure that he is released at the earliest possible opportunity, so that he can resume his duties with the Organization. Thank you, Mr President.
82; The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Uganda, and I give the floor to the delegate of Sierra Leone.
83.1 Mr PORTER (Sierra Leone): Thank you, Mr President. In conformity with your wishes, we shall be brief and almost dangerously concise. In lending our support to the draft resolution we wish it to be clearly understood that we did not, and still do not, see this    draft as a condemnation of any Member State. Nor do we wish to contribute to the creation of an atmosphere of confrontation. That is neither what is expected nor what iis dntended. Our faim; cur :hope.is. a. positiveione:
83.2 My country, Sierra Leone, is grateful for the friendship and good relation- ships which it is privileged to enjoy with those countries with which it has diplomatic ties, and we shall do nothing, either consciously or unconsciously, to tamper with, to distort or to break these ties of friendship and mutual accord.
83.3 Our delegation supports this resolution in order to lend our voice and our counsel to a continuation of the means - any means - and to a continuation of the attempts - any attempts - to resolve this matter. Our concern is to uphold the Constitution of this Organization of which we are members.
83.4 The operative clause, Mr President, to which we would like to draw the Con- ference's attention, is the invitation to the Director-General to continue to use all possible ways and means to find a satisfactory solution to the problem. Ас- cording to our information, no request for a waiver of immunities has been made. We are convinced that if this request had been made, our present discussion would not have taken place, or at least that it would have taken a different form, and we would like to repeat the question which others have asked, namely whether any suggestion has been made for a waiver correctly submitted? We have heard in the debate suggestions of espionage and even of high treason. We would again ask, Mr President, has a case been put forward and a request for a waiver correctly submitted? This is part of ourconviction.in- supporting.thes resolution.
83.5 It has also been stated, Mr President, and as a member of the Executive Board, I know this to be true, that the Board has spent two sessions discussing this matter. To some it may seem that we have exhausted all the time required for this. But our delegation does not believe that patience and goodwill, not on one side, but on both sides, have been exhausted or should have been exhausted. And we call on both sides to continue to find ways, to explore ways and means of resolving this regrettable and unfortunate affair.
83.6 TEE ds in. ehis eaärnest. hope andainatcthisAOoptimisStiG.faith..Mr:President,.that we support the Executive Board in the action it has taken, through our support for the draft resolution before the Conference. Thank you, Mr President.
84. The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Sierra Leone. The delegate of Gabon has the floor.
85. M. BOUSSAMBA (Gabon) .— Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, je serai très bref, comme vous l'avez demandé. Ma délégation est persuadée que le projet de réso- lution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 ne contient pas de considérations politiques et qu'il ne vise pas à défendre les intérêts d'un camp contre ceux d'un autre, et encore moins а intervenir dans les affaires intérieures d'un Etat membre. Il a pour unique ob- jet, comme l'a si bien souligné l'honorable délégué du Guatemala, le respect des principes, normes et procédures librement acceptés par les Etats membres. C'est la raison pour laquelle ma délégation votera pour ce projet de résolution. Je vous remercie.
86. The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Gabon, and I give the floor to the delegate of Burundi.
87. M. KARORERO (Burundi) .- Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je serai très bref. Au Conseil exécutif, nous avons eu connaissance du dossier que nous a présenté le Directeur général, ainsi que des explications données par le représentant de la République démocratique allemande. Aussi ce que je vais dire représente-t-il ma conviction profonde, fon- dée sur ces renseignements officiels et de bonne source. Premièrement, je regrette très sincèrement ce débat que je ne souhaitais pas et dont, en tout cas, je ne croyais pas qu'il en arriverait lá. A mon avis, adhérer librement à l'Acte consti- tutif signifie qu'on accepte d'en appliquer toutes les dispositions. Nous croyons donc que tout Etat qui adhère à l'Unesco s'engage aussi à appliquer son Acte cons- titutif. C'est cet Acte qui nous unit et qui nous réunit ici. Refuser une de ses dispositions, c'est directement mettre en cause l'existence de notre Organisation. Aussi voudrais-je féliciter le Directeur général pour sa vigilance sans défail- lance à l'égard de l'Acte constitutif. Je souhaite pour ma part qu'il continue dans cette voie et que le problème qui nous est soumis trouve une solution dans le meilleur délai. Ce qui nous préoccupe donc, Monsieur le Président, ce n'est pas seulement la défense d'un fonctionnaire ou la défense du Secrétariat, mais c'est la défense de notre Acte constitutif, de notre Organisation. C'est pour toutes ces raisons que je ne puis faire autrement qu'appuyer le projet de résolution. Je vous remercie.
88. The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Burundi, and I give the floor to the delegate of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic.
(89.1) Mr KAPUSTSKY (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic) (Translation from the Russian) : Mr President, the delegation of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic is opposed to draft resolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 submitted by the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Italy and a number of other countries. This draft resolution is designed to encourage complicity with the secret services of world reactionary forces which have nothing in common with the aims and tasks of Unesco. We do not intend to discuss this draft resol- ution, which essentially constitutes a violation of the sovereign right of a Member State; we think that a draft resolution of this nature should not be debated at the Unesco General Conference.
(89.2) The Legal Adviser should be asked where it is stated that it is the duty of a Member State to seek advice on the waiver of the immunity enjoyed by a citizen of the country who is working on the Secretariat.
(89.3) We for our part assume that the Unesco Secretariat will adopt a stricter policy in regard to its staff members who violate the Constitution of the Organization. None of those who spoke against draft resolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.15 questioned the legality of the measures taken by the Director-General and the Executive Board in order to settle the question. The only question raised concerned the legal validity of the draft resolution submitted by a number of states. For these reasons, the delegation of the Byelorussian SSR will vote against the draft resolution in question. Thank you, Mr President.
9057" The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic. “Does any other delegate wish to speak? I give the floor to the Director-General.
91.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL.- Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, je ne relè- verai pas certaines paroles qui traduisent une certaine arrogance ou même un cer- tain mépris à l'endroit du Directeur général de cette Organisation, mais je vou- drais répondre très brièvement à un certain nombre de questions. Je suis prêt à fournir les exemples dont je parle. Quand on dit, en effet, comme l'orateur qui vient d'intervenir, que le Secrétariat de l'Organisation devrait avoir une atti- tude plus sérieuse à l'égard des Etats membres, je crois que c'est faire preuve d'arrogance, car le Directeur général que je suis a toujours eu une attitude très claire, très calme, très sérieuse à l'égard des Etats membres de l'Organisation. Quand on dit, comme un autre délégué, que le cas qui nous occupe est un cas mineur qui n'intéresse pratiquement personne, je crois aussi que c'est faire preuve de mépris pour le Directeur général de l'Organisation parce que lui, au moins, s'in- téresse à ce cas, qu'il a des raisons de le faire et je vais vous dire pourquoi.
91.2 Monsieur le Président, autour de quoi tournent tous les arguments qui ont été invoqués ici contre le projet de résolution qui a été présenté ? Il a été sou- tenu que ce texte porte atteinte à la souveraineté d'un Etat membre, qu'il cons- titue une ingérence dans les affaires intérieures d'un Etat membre ; en fait, tous les orateurs qui se sont opposés au projet de résolution ont tenté de démontrer en usant de divers arguments que l'adoption de ce texte serait illégitime. Certains d'entre eux ont cité des textes, mais en les tronquant ; tel a été le cas, par exemple, de la section 22 de l'article VI de la Convention sur les privilèges et    immunités des institutions spécialisées, dont la première phrase a la teneur sui- 38 vante : "Les privilèges et immunités sont accordés aux fonctionnaires uniquement dans l'intérêt des institutions spécialisées et non pour leur bénéfice personnel".
91.3 Mais il faut bien savoir que le texte se poursuit ainsi : "Chaque institu- tion spécialisée pourra et devra lever l'immunité accordée а un fonctionnaire dans tous les cas où, à son avis, cette immunité empêcherait que justice ne soit faite et où l'immunité peut être levée sans porter préjudice aux intérêts de l'institu- tion spécialisée". Voila le droit. La question qui se pose est donc de savoir si les actes commis par un membre du Secrétariat sont contraires à ses obligations de fonctionnaire international. Qui peut déterminer, en pareil cas, si le fonction- naire a commis un acte délictuel ou non, si ce n'est le chef du Secrétariat de l'Organisation dont il relève, c'est-à-dire en l'occurrence, pour l'Unesco, son Directeur général.
91.4 J'affirme ici, en réponse à une question qui a été posée par le délégué de la Sierra Leone, que jamais le pays en cause ne m'a présenté de demande de levée de l'immunité du fonctionnaire condamné. Je dirai plus : jamais ce pays ne m'a indiqué avec précision les actes reprochés à ce fonctionnaire. Pour ma part, je suis prêt à publier, si la Conférence générale m'y autorise, tous les documents relatifs à l'affaire et les comptes rendus de tous les débats dont elle a fait l'objet au Conseil exécutif de l'Unesco en séance privée. Je crois que si ces docu- ments sont publiés, non seulement vous tous serez édifiés sur cette affaire, mais le public le sera aussi.
91.5 J'affirme donc que, dans ce cas, un Etat membre n'a pas respecté ses obliga- tions, car il devait, s'il estimait que ce fonctionnaire s'était rendu coupable d'une quelconque infraction, demander la levée de son immunité en communiquant au Directeur général les éléments d'appréciation qui lui auraient permis de déter- miner lui-même si les actes commis étaient ou non en contradiction avec ses obliga- tions de fonctionnaire international.
91.6 Je rappelle au délégué de l'Union soviétique que cette procédure a été res- pectée lorsqu'un fonctionnaire soviétique a été arrêté pour espionnage par les autorités du pays où se trouve le Siège de l'Organisation ; l'ambassadeur de France, qui a parlé tout à l'heure, peut témoigner de ce qui s'est alors passé. Un fonctionnaire de l'Unesco a été arrêté. J'en ai été informé dans l'après-midi. Je suis intervenu auprès du gouvernement français et l'intéressé a été libéré dans la soirée. Quel argument ai-je invoqué auprès du gouvernement français ? J'ai dit : Si vous estimez que ce fonctionnaire est coupable d'espionnage, fournissez-m'en la preuve et je prendrai moi-même les dispositions nécessaires à son endroit. Ayant estimé que le secret de la défense nationale lui interdisait de fournir les docu- ments en question et, par conséquent, d'apporter la preuve de la culpabilité de l'intéressé, le gouvernement français l'a libéré. Depuis, d'ailleurs, comme l'a indiqué l'Ambassadeur de France, nous avons passé, par échange de lettres, un accord qui définit la procédure à suivre en pareil cas.
91.7 Je dirai donc au délégué de l'Union soviétique qu'il ne peut pas y avoir deux poids et deux mesures. Je ne peux exiger de certains gouvernements qu'ils respectent des accords qu'ils ont conclus - et je suis reconnaissant au gouverne- ment français de l'avoir fait - et m'abstenir de demander aux gouvernements d'autres Etats membres, quels qu'ils soient, de les appliquer.
91.8 En ce qui concerne maintenant le problème du conflit entre le droit interna- tional et le droit national, la République démocratique allemande, si je suis bien informé, s'en tient au droit international et, pour elle, si l'on en croit les paroles prononcées par M. Honecker, président du Conseil d'Etat de la République démocratique allemande en février 1977 lors d'une interview accordée à un journal, c'est le droit international qui prime sur le droit interne. De surcroît, la Cons- titution de la République démocratique allemande stipule en son article VIII : "Les règles généralement acceptées du droit international au service de la paix et de la coopération pacifique des peuples s'imposent au pouvoir d'Etat et à tous les citoyens". Alors qu'on ne me parle pas de conflit entre le droit national et le droit international.
91.9 Ce qui est en cause ici, je le répète, ce sont les obligations que les Etats membres contractent quand ils adhèrent à l'Unesco comme à toute organisation inter- nationale du système des Nations Unies. Le jour où les Etats membres refuseront de s'acquitter de ces obligations, il n'y aura plus de fonction publique internatio- nale et il n'y aura plus d'organisation internationale. C'est le point de vue que je défends depuis toujours et je continuerai de le défendre. Cela ne veut pas dire que je protégerai n'importe quel membre du Secrétariat qui commettrait des actes qui seraient en contradiction avec ses obligations de fonctionnaire international. Mais, dans le cas qui nous occupe, je veux que la procédure normale soit suivie,
1415   que des faits me soient fournis et surtout que ces faits soient vérifiables. Il serait en effet trop facile pour un Etat membre d'accuser un de ses ressortis- sants, fonctionnaire international, d'avoir commis un délit grave et de le faire juger sans fournir à quiconque quelque justification que ce soit.
91.10 Voilä, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, le fond du problème. Je ne vous exposerai pas ici les faits par le menu, d'autant qu'il est maintenant trop tard. Mais je tiens, Monsieur le Président, à dire ceci : d'abord, je suis reconnaissant à tous ceux qui, ayant fait écho aux préoccupations que j'ai expri- mées dans mon exposé introductif au débat de politique générale et dans ma réponse à ce débat, ont pensé à déposer un projet de résolution sur la question. J'avoue que je n'envisageais pas cette éventualité, mais je suis heureux que des Etats membres aient pris une telle initiative. Pourtant, je suis de ce fait placé, comme vous-mêmes, devant un choix très clair : en effet, ou bien j'ai agi en con- formité avec les obligations et avec le serment que j'ai prêté ici quand vous m'avez élu Directeur général de l'Unesco, et en ce cas vous ne pouvez pas vous- mêmes ne pas prendre vos responsabilités ; ou alors j'ai agi en contradiction avec ce serment et vous devez me démettre de mes fonctions de Directeur général immédia- tement. Je pense qu'il n'y a pas d'autre alternative. Je l'ai déjà dit et je le répète, je ne pourrai jamais diriger l'Unesco si quelque Etat membre que ce soit, petit ou grand, viole ses engagements. Je respecte tous les Etats membres et je m'efforce d'entretenir avec chacun les meilleures relations. En l'occurrence, dans cette affaire, j'ai été au-delä des devoirs que m'imposent mes obligations de fonc- tionnaire international. J'ai fait des démarches qu'un Directeur général ne fait pas. J'ai envoyé des missions auprès d'instances avec lesquelles le Directeur géné- ral n'a ordinairement pas de rapports. J'ai fait tout ce qui dépendait de moi pour que même le Conseil exécutif de l'Organisation lui-même n'ait pas à connaître de cette question et, s'il n'avait tenu qu'à moi, elle n'aurait jamais été évoquée devant la Conférence générale. Je ne cherche à mettre en accusation aucun Etat, mais j'ai des obligations et je dois les assumer. Si je ne les assumais pas, vous devriez me mépriser et de démettre parce que je ne serais pas digne d'être votre Directeur général. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
92 PRESIDENT: I thank the Director-General. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to aUroll=-callvote7on ‘the-resolution. (A vote was taken by roll-call) The result of the vote is as follows: In favour: Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, PapuaNew Guinea, Philippines, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Rwanda, San Marino, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Zaire, Zambia, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Burundi, Canada, Chad, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Democratic Kampuchea, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France, Gabon, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand. Against: Poland, Socialist Republic of Viet Nam,. Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Afghanistan, Angola, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Mozambique. Abstaining: Yugoslavia, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, Madagascar. Absent: Peru, Qatar, Romania, Saint Lucia, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Somalia, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Tonga, United Arab Emirates, Yemen, Zimbabwe, Albania, Algeria, Benin, Burma, Central African Republic, Colombia, Comoros, Cyprus, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Democratic Yemen, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Gambia, Grenada, Guyana, Honduras, Iceland, India, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Malawi, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Monaco, Nepal, Nicaragua. The resolution Te Tadopted "by 82 votes1 being absent when the vote was taken. The delegate of the German Democratic Republic wishes to speak. He has the
93.1 M. KAEMPF (République démocratique allemande) .- Merci, Monsieur le Président. La délégation de la République démocratique alle- mande regrette profondément la décision qui vient d'être prise par la Conférence générale. Flle voit dans cette décision une ingérence inadmissible dans les affaires intérieures de son pays, ingérence qu'elle rejette avec la plus grande énergie. La République démocratique allemande considère le cas du professeur Stulz comme clos. La délégation de la République démocratique allemande tient à réaffir- mer encore une fois la position qu'elle a présentée avant le vote sur le projet de résolution.
93.2 Le professeur Stulz a commis des délits dirigés contre la sécurité de la République démocratique allemande et qui sont sans nul doute incompatibles avec ses obligations en tant que membre du Secrétariat de l'Unesco. Cette activité était en contradiction avec son travail de fonctionnaire international et elle n'est couverte par aucune disposition du Statut du personnel de l'Unesco ni de la Convention sur les privilèges et immunités des institutions spécialisées. Par con- séquent, la légalité des mesures prises par les autorités de la République démocra- tique allemande vis-à-vis du ressortissant de la République démocratique allemande Percy Stulz, qui a commis des actes dirigés contre l'Etat, est hors de doute. En ce qui concerne le respect ou le non-respect des obligations d'un fonctionnaire international, il existe des critères précis fixés par l'Acte constitutif de l'Or- ganisation, ainsi que dans le Statut du personnel. Ces critères permettent à tout Etat membre de déterminer à quel moment un fonctionnaire international s'écarte de ses obligations. De tels écarts sont encore plus évidents quand il s'agit d'acti- vités dirigées contre les intérêts légitimes de la sécurité d'un Etat membre, et c'est en particulier cet aspect de la question que la République démocratique alle- mande a souligné à plusieurs reprises. De fait, les débats sur cette affaire au Conseil exécutif ont démontré que l'interprétation donnée des droits, obligations et privilèges des fonctionnaires internationaux requiert un réexamen qui devrait permettre de la préciser.
93.3 La République démocratique allemande rejette, bien sûr, les allégations ir- responsables et dénuées de tout fondement que certains orateurs ont avancées dans leurs interventions contre mon pays, ainsi que toutes les suppositions malveil- lantes arguant du non-respect de la Convention sur les privilèges et immunités du
21 novembre 1947. Ces suppositions malveillantes ne peuvent qu'aider les forces pour lesquelles le développement d'une coopération fructueuse a toujours été une source de contrariété et qui tentent d'empoisonner l'atmosphère internationale en recourant aux méthodes de la guerre froide. La délégation de la République démocra- tique allemande rejette toutes les tentatives visant à perturber la coopération fructueuse qui s'est instaurée entre son pays et l'Unesco. Elle réaffirme la ferme volonté de la République démocratique allemande de continuer d'apporter à l'avenir sa pleine contribution à la’réalisation des objectifs de l'Unesco. Quant à l'inter- prétation de sa Constitution, elle est seule, en tant qu'Etat souverain, habilitée à la donner. Pour conclure, Monsieur le Président, ma délégation tient à remercier toutes les délégations qui ont appuyé la position solidement fondée de la Répu- blique démocratique allemande et qui se sont engagées à préserver une atmosphère constructive et objective à la vingt et unième session de la Conférence générale. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
94.1 The PRESIDEN I thank the d T © legate of the German Democratic Republic.
94.2 Ladies and gentlemen, we shall start our work tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock. The meeting stands adjourned. The meeting rose at 8.00 p.m. La séance est levée à 20 heures Se levanta la sesión a las 20.00 Заседание закрывается B 20.00 ‎اتسم"ةعاشلا 54 fete di Gas) SWFTH sus %