Thirty-fourth plenary meeting
23: October. 1980. at. 3.20. Dmg President: Mr MARGAN (Yugoslavia) Trente-quatrième scance plénière
1. The PRESIDENT: Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the thirty-fourth plenary meeting open. The first subject for consideration this afternoon is item 57-- Place and date of the fourth extraordinary session (1982), and I shall give the floor to the Secre- tary of the General Conference to present the item.
2.1 Le SECRETAIRE.- Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, je serai fort bref car la question soumise à la Conférence est simplement celle de l'application de l'ar- ticle IV, section D, paragraphe 9 (b), de l'Acte constitutif, qui se lit comme suit : "Au cours de chaque session, la Conférence fixe le siège de la session ordinaire suivante. Le siège de toute session extraordinaire est fixé par la Conférence générale si c'est elle qui a pris l'initiative de cette session,..."
2.2 Puisque la Conférence générale a décidé ä sa vingtième session de tenir une session extraordinaire en 1982, il lui appartient maintenant de fixer son siège. Le Directeur général n'ayant reçu aucune invitation à tenir cette session ailleurs qu'au Siège de l'Organisation, il est proposé dans le projet de résolution qui figure au paragraphe 3 du document 21 C/103 que cette session ait lieu au Siège.
2.3 Quant aux dates proposées (11-20 octobre 1982), je puis vous assurer qu'elles ont été soigneusement étudiées et qu'elles tiennent compte du calendrier prévu pour la rédaction du projet de Plan à moyen terme pour 1984-1989. Ces dates de- vraient donc, de l'avis du Directeur général, être acceptables pour les Etats membres. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
3. The PRESIDENT: I thank the Secretary of the General Conference and I give the floor to the delegate of the United Republic of Tanzania.
4.1 Mr KAYZA (United Republic of Tanzania): Thank you very much, Mr President. My delegation wishes to amend the dates suggested in the last operative paragraph of the resolution contained in para- graph 3 of document 21 0/1030228384: 11 to 20 September 1982",
4.2 During the discussions that took place in Commission V on item 38 - Methods of work of the General Conference, several delegations, including my own, on the basis of our favourable experience at this session, expressed the wish that the General Conference might in future begin its work earlier than it usually does, that is to say earlier than in October.
4.3 As you are aware, Mr President, about one half of the delegations to the General Conference come from tropical countries and they can work better in warm weather than in the colder weather that characterizes the northern hemisphere in the last quarter of the year. I am sure that a warmer climate during the General Conference would also be preferred by our colleagues from colder climates.
4.4 It was also pointed out in the Commission that earlier dates for the General Conference would allow the Secretariat more time for immediate follow-up action before the end of the year on the decisions taken by the General Conference.
4.5 My delegation further considers that earlier dates for the fourth extraordi- nary session could help us to judge better the most opportune time for the General Conference to meet at Headquarters in future. Since this twenty-first session of the General Conference began in September this year, the normal two-year cycle between this session and the extraordinary session would be maintained, and we believe the preparations for it would not be affected. Thank you, Mr President.
5. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. I call on the delegate of the United States of America.
6.1 Mr FOBES (United States of America) : Mr President, my delegation was one of those which spoke in Programme Com- mission V and expressed a preference for the holding of the extraordinary session in September,
6.2 Our justification was that this would give the Secretariat more time to pre- pare document 22 C/5, that is to say the first programme and budget under the new Medium-Term Plan; we are very anxious that this document should be well prepared, in the light of the new Medium-Term Plan and its objectives, and that it should be available to us at the earliest possible date in 1983.
6.3 For this reason, we also believe that the extraordinary session should be held as early as possible in the month of September 1982, and we support the pro- posal by the delegate of Tanzania.
(8) Mr HAMAD (Sudan) - (Translation from the Arabic): Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, I did not participate in that debate, but I have a question which I hope the Secretary of the General Conference will answer. In the event of this proposal being adopted, would there be any conflict with the ordinary timetable of meetings of Unesco bodies, for example with regard to the Executive Board and its sessions and so on? This is simply a question which I wanted to ask in order to be sure about this matter. Thank you.
9% The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Sudan, and I give the floor to the delegate of Senegal.
10.1 M. THIAM (Sénégal) .- Monsieur le Président, je dois dire que je suis assez embarrassé par la propo- sition qui vient de nous être faite car je sais d'expérience que les dates qui sont proposées en ce qui concerne les sessions de la Conférence générale sont des dates qui sont soigneusement étudiées, de façon à tenir compte de toutes les con- traintes éventuelles et à convenir autant que faire se peut à la majorité sinon à la totalité des Etats membres. Chacun sait parfaitement que le Conseil exécutif a déjà envisagé cette question avec toute l'attention requise.
10.2 Il semblait donc acquis que la quatrième session extraordinaire de la Confé- rence générale pourrait se tenir à la date proposée dans le document 21 C/103, et c'est pourquoi je suis quelque peu désemparé à l'idée que cette session pourrait avoir lieu en septembre. La plupart des raisons que mon frère et ami de la Tan- zanie a avancées sont peut-être valables pour une partie de l'Afrique mais elles ne le sont pas pour toute l'Afrique. Dans un certain nombre de pays, nous sommes encore, au mois de septembre, en pleine période d'activité scolaire et il est cer- tain que si la session extraordinaire se tenait à cette époque, cela ne manquerait pas de poser des problèmes d'une particulière complexité, sans compter qu'au ni- veau universitaire aussi, un certain nombre de problèmes risqueraient de se poser. C'est la raison pour laquelle je souhaiterais que soit retenu le principe de la proposition qui nous est faite dans le document 21 C/103, quitte peut-être à ce qu'une étude plus approfondie permette de déterminer s'il serait possible àl'avenir de trouver un autre mécanisme. Je vous remercie beaucoup, Monsieur le Président.
11. “The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Senegal. Does any other delegate wish to speak? I see none, and I give the floor to the Secretary.
12. Le SECRETAIRE.- Monsieur le Président, je voudrais à nouveau souligner que les dates proposées dans le document 21 C/103 ont été soigneusement étudiées par le Secrétariat et par le Directeur général. Il est vrai que, comme l'ont dit les délégués de la Répu- blique-Unie de Tanzanie et des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, si la session extraordinaire se tenait en septembre, cela donnerait au Directeur général un peu plus de temps
34 pour préparer le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1984-1985 ; en revanche, cela réduirait d'autant le temps dont le Directeur général disposerait pour la préparation du Projet de plan à moyen terme pour 1984-1989 (22 C/4) qui - il ne faut pas l'oublier - ne sera pas une opération très simple. En effet, le Directeur général devra tout d'abord consulter les Etats membres, et donc leur donner un certain temps pour qu'ils puissent étudier la problématique mondiale et répondre à ses questions ; il faudra ensuite que le Directeur général et ses collaborateurs disposent de suffisamment de temps pour analyser les réponses des Etats membres, en tirer des conclusions et mettre au point le texte final du document 22 C/4. Il faudra enfin et surtout soumettre en temps voulu ce document au Conseil exécutif pour qu'il l'examine et se prononce sur son contenu. Je ne vous cache pas que nous avons discuté de cette question des dates de la session extraordinaire avec le Directeur général et qu'il m'a donné pour instruction de vous faire savoir qu'il lui serait extrêmement difficile, au cas où cette session serait avancée d'un mois, de faire parvenir en temps voulu aux Etats membres le document 22 C/4. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
13. Yi: The PRESIDENT: Thank you. May I ask those delegates who opposed the original proposal whether the reply by the Secretary is acceptable to them?
13.2 The delegate of the United Republic of Tanzania has the floor.
14.1 Mr KAYZA (United Republic of Tanzania): Mr-President, we do not wish to make things difficult for the Director- General. We put forward our proposal with very good intentions, firstly, as I have said, in the interests of the Member States, and secondly because we thought that the fourth extraordinary session, which will be a short one, dealing with very few items, might offer a unique opportunity of trying out these ideas.
14.2 As I have said, this view was expressed in Programme Commission V, and echoed by several delegates, so that I thought it might be put to the plenary. But in view of the statement by the Secretary of the General Conference that our proposal will create a number of problems, we are prepared to withdraw it, in the hope that it will be the subject of further reflection in the future. I should like to thank all those who have supported our proposal. Thank you, "Mr: President.
15. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. I give the floor to the delegate of the United States of America.
16. Mr FOBES (United States of America): Thank you, Mr President, the delegate of Tanzania has expressed our views. We do not wish to raise problems for the Director-General. Our reasoning has been explained. I believe, however, that in future the Secretariat officials might take note when statements are made by delegates in a Commission; in the present case, they might have contacted the delegates concerned to explain the Secretariat's position before the subject was raised in plenary. In fact, the Secretariat officials neither replied to nor commented on our views, and made no contact with us after Commission V discussed the dates of the extraordinary ses- sion. Thank you, Mr President.
1741 The PRESIDENT: Well, thank you very much for your understanding. I think I can now ask whether you are ready to adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 3 of docu- ment 21 C/103. I see no further objections. Thank you very much.
17.2 The fesclution is adöpted. PLACE AND DATE OF THE TWENTY-SECOND SESSION OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE LIEU ET DATE DE LA VINGT-DEUXIEME SESSION DE LA CONFERENCE GENERALE LUGAR Y FECHA DE LA 22a. REUNION DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL МЕСТО И СРОКИ ПРОВЕДЕНИЯ ДВАДЦАТЬ ВТОРОЙ СЕССИИ ГЕНЕРАЛЬНОЙ КОНФЕРЕНЦИИ Peae geiSUN 3slials, olSe ARTSNHAan A
18. The PRESIDENT: We shall now turn to item 58 - Place and date of the twenty-second session of the General Conference, and I give the floor to the Chairman of the Executive Board, His Excellency Ambassador El-Wakil, to present to the Conference the recommendations of the Board concerning this item.
19.1 M. EL-WAKIL (Egypte), président du Conseil exécutif.- Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, le Conseil exécutif, à
110e session, a examiné la question du lieu et de la date de la vingt-<deux ième session de la Conférence générale.
19,2 Compte tenu des dispositions des articles 2 et 3 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale et en raison du fait qu'à la date limite fixée par l'ar- ticle 3, aucun Etat membre n'avait invité la Conférence générale à tenir sa vingt- deuaiens session sur son territoire, le Conseil a recommandé que la Conférence générale tienne sa vingt-deuxième session au Siège de l'Organisation à Paris.
19.3 A sa 110e session, le Conseil exécutif a pris une décision (110 EX/ Déc., 6.2). Dans cette décision, il a recommandé à la Conférence générale d'adop- ter le projet de résolution qui figure maintenant au paragraphe 6 du document
21 C/102. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
2051 -The PRESIDENT: I thank the Chairman of the Executive Board. Are there any comments on this proposal? If there are no objections, may I conclude that we agree to adopt the resolution recommended to us by the Executive Board and contained in paragraph 6 of document 21 C/102? Thank you very much.
21, The PRESIDENT: Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now consider items 55 and 56 entitled respec- tively: Election of members of committees for the twenty-second session of the General Conference, and Election of members of other bodies. I should like to draw your ‘attention to-documents 21 .C/121 and 217C/1217Add "which contain the Fourth Report of the Nominations Committee on this question. I now invite the Chairman of the Nominations Committee, Mr Putzeys-Alvarez, to present the report to the General Conference.
(22.1) Mr PUTZEYS ALVAREZ (Guatemala), Chairman of the Nominations Committee (Translation from the Spanish): Thank you, Mr President. As you have said, the fourth report of the Nominations Committee, which I shall present, is contained in documents 21 C/121 and 21 C/121 Add.
(22.2) The Nominations Committee held its fourth, fifth anc sixth meetings, over which I presided, on 17, 20 and 21 October 1980, for the purpose of formulating recommendations to the General Conference with regard to filling the vacant posts on the following Committees, Councils and Commissions: Intergovernmental Committee for Physical Education and Sport, Council of the International Bureau of Education, Intergovernmental Co- ordinating Council of the Programme on Man and the Biosphere, International Council for the International Hydrological Programme, Intergovernmental Committee for promoting the return of cultural property to its countries of origin or its restitution in case of illicit appropriation, Intergovernmental Council for the General Information Programme and Conciliation and Good Officers Commission responsible for seeking the settlement of any disputes which may arise between States Parties to the Convention against Discrimination in Education.
(22.3) The Committee examined the lists of the many candidatures for seats on the different Committees, Councils and Commissions; these lists reflected the growing interest of Member States in active participation in these bodies. After a long and useful debate, the Committee arrived by consensus at the decision that, with the exception of the Con- ciliation and Good Offices Commission, which was a special case, the procedure for appoint- ing members of these bodies should be the same as that followed at the twentieth session of the General Conference, whereby outgoing members were replaced by others from the same electoral group. Nevertheless, several delegations took the view that in future it would be advisable for the competent bodies to decide on an allocation of posts more in keeping with equitable geographical distribution.
(22.4) Following the withdrawal of a number of candidatures, the Committee unanimously decided to recommend that the General Conference elect the following members of the three bodies listed below:
(22.5) Intergovernmental Committee for Physical Education and Sport (15 posts vacant) : German Democratic Republic, Czechoslovakia, USSR, Cuba, Honduras, Mexico, Uruguay, Japan, Malaysia, Nepal, Madagascar, Uganda, United Republic of Cameroon, Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Jordan.
(22.6) Intergovernmental Committee for promoting the return of culturalproperty to its countries Of origin or its restitution in case of illicit appropriation (10 posts vacant): Greece, USSR, Ecuador, Honduras, Mexico, Pakistan, Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, Angola, Ghana, Yemen.
(22.7) International Council for the General Information Programme (15 posts vacant): Federal Republic of Germany, Austria, Finland, France, Bulgaria, Poland, USSR, Argentina, Venezuela, Indonesia, Philippines, Niger, Nigeria, Togo, Mauritania.
(22.8) Following a secret ballot, the Nominations Committee decided to recommend that the General Conference elect the following members of the bodies listed below:
(22.9) Council of the International Bureau of Education (14 posts vacant): Denmark, Spain, United States of America, France, Poland, Ecuador, Panama, Peru, Bangladesh, Guinea, Kenya, Rwanda, Egypt, Qatar.
(22.10) Intergovernmental Co-ordinating Council of the Programme on Man and the Biosphere (15 posts vacant): Federal Republic of Germany, Spain, Sweden, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Chile, Guyana, China, Japan, Benin, Burundi, Ivory Coast, Lebanon, Morocco, Syrian Arab Republic.
(22.11) Intergovernmental Council for the International Hydrological Programme (15 posts vacant): Federal Republic of Germany, Austria, United States of America, Netherlands, Hungary, Argentina, Chile, China, Nepal, Pakistan, Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, Ivory Coast, Niger, Jordan, Sudan.
34 (22.12) Conciliation and Good Offices Commission responsible for seeking the settlement of anydisputes which may arise between States Parties to the Convention against Dis- crimination in Education (3 posts vacant): Professor Mohamed Ben Bachir (Morocco), Mr Gustavo Perramón Pearson (Argentina), Mr Francois Rajaoson (Madagascar).
(22.13) The delegate of Norway asked that it be noted in the record that, whilst recog- nizing the efforts made by the Chairman in the course of this difficult process to achieve the best possible results in an atmosphere of negotiation and conciliation, he had requested that the Rules of Procedure regarding voting be more strictly applied.
(22.14). Several delegates expressed the wish that, when making decisions concerning the bodies which had yet to be examined, the different electoral groups would endeavour to arrive at solutions in a spirit of harmony and broad co-operation. They acknowledged the efforts constantly made by the Chairman of the Committee to arrive at such solutions.
(22.15) The Nominations Committee held its seventh meeting on 22 October under my chair- manship, for the purpose of making its recommendations to the General Conference regarding the composition of the Legal Committee and the Headquarters Committee.
(22.16) As a result of the steps that the Chairman of the Committee had taken to obtain a number of nominations corresponding exactly to the number of places on the Committee, the delegations of El Salvador, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and Bangla- desh, in a spirit of collaboration and understanding, announced that they would withdraw their. nominations. The Committee was therefore able to elect the following members unanimously to the Headquarters Committee (21 members): Australia, United States of America, France, Luxembourg, United Kingdom, Sweden, Switzerland, Romania, Costa Rica, Panama, Philippines, Thailand, Benin, Ivory Coast, Central African Republic, Nigeria, Senegal, United Republic of Tanzania, Togo, Algeria, Tunisia.
(22.17) The Committee also decided unanimously to recommend that the following members should be elected to the Legal Committee (21 members): Canada, United States of America, Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Czechoslovakia, Argentina, Chile, El Salvador, Uruguay, Venezuela, Iran, Nepal, Egypt, Ghana, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Nigeria, Togo, Tunisia, Yemen.
(22.18) I should like to join with the Nominations Committee in thanking the countries which helped to make it possible for this consensus to be reached.
(22.19) It is necessary to repeat here that many delegates, during the process leading up to the proposals regarding the composition of the nine Committees and Councils, which is the subject of the fourth report of the Nominations Committee and its addendum, observed that it was vital for a detailed study to be made concerning the appropriate distribution of the seats on these bodies, so as to ensure equitable distribution among the various electoral groups. There was a specific suggestion that the General Conference should instruct the Executive Board to examine this matter, so that it could be considered at the twenty-second session of the General Conference.
(22.20) I have now come to the end of the report. Thank you very much, Mr President.
23,1”"The "PRESIDENTS I thank the Chairman of the Nominations Committee for his report. I would suggest that the Conference approve the composition of various organs in the order in which the Committee has made its recommendations.
23.2 Let us first take item 56.1 - Election of members of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Development of Physical Education and Sport. The Nominations Committee recommends that the Conference elect the 15 members mentioned in para- graph 4 of document 21 C/121. May I take it that you approve this recommendation? Thank you very much.
23.3 The recommendation is adopted.
23.4 We now move to item 56.5 - Election of members of the Intergovernmental Com- mittee for Promoting the Return of Cultural Property to its Countries of Origin or its Restitution in Case of Illicit Appropriation. The Nominations Committee has recommended the election of the ten members mentioned in paragraph 5 of docu- ment 21 C/121. May I take it that you approve this recommendation? Thank you very much.
23.5 The recommendation is adopted.
23.6 We now move to item 56.6 - Election of members of the Intergovernmental Coun- cil for the General Information Programme. You will find in paragraph 6 of docu- ment 21 C/121 the names of the 15 members recommended by the Nominations Committee for this Council. If there are no objections, I shall consider that the recommenda- tion of the Committee is approved.
23.7 The recommendation is adopted.
23.87 We now turn’ tol item 56.27" "Election of members” of the“Council of the Inter- national Bureau of Education. In paragraph 7 of document 21 C/121, the Nominations
1308   Committee has listed the names of the 14 members which it recommends for this Council. May I consider that you approve the recommendation by the Nominations Committee? I see no objections.
23.9 The recommendation is adopted.
23.10 I now turn to item 56.3 — Election of members of the International Co- ordinating Council of the Programme on Man and the Biosphere. In paragraph 8 of document 21 C/121, we have a list of the 15 members recommended to us by the Nominations Committee. May I consider again that you approve this recommendation? Thank you.
23. ln The recommendation is adopted:
23.12 “Under item 56.4 - Election of members of the Intergovernmental Council for the International Hydrological Programme, you will find in paragraph 9 of docu- ment 21 C/121 a list of the 15 members recommended by the Nominations Committee. Does the Conference approve the recommendation? I see no objections.
23.13 The recommendation is ‘adopted.
25.14 Finally, under iten 56.7 Blection of three members of the Conciliation and Good Offices Commission responsible for seeking the settlement of any disputes which may arise between States Parties to the Convention against Discrimination in Education, the Nominations Committee recommends the names which you will find in paragraph 10 of document 21 C/121.. May 1 take it that you approve this recommenda- tion? Thank you.
23.15 The recommendation is adopted.
23.16 Ladiesiand igentlemen), I would now like! toi move to items 55.1 andi 56% 2, concerning the composition of committees of the General Conference.
23.17 Under item 55.2, which refers to the Headquarters Committee, the Chairman of the Nominations Committee has informed you that steps have been taken to obtain a number of nominations corresponding exactly to the number of places on the Com- mittee. The list of Member States recommended unanimously by the Nominations Committee for the Headquarters Committee appears in paragraph 2 of document 21 C/121 Addendum. May I take it that you approve this recommendation? I see no objections.
23515 The recommendationiiisadopted.
23.191 Under item 55.1, “which refers to the Legal Committee, the Noninations Com mittee has also recommended unanimously the names of the Member States contained in paragraph 3 of document 217C/127 Addendum.i; In the absence of objections, I shall consider that you approve the recommendation by the Nominations Committee. Thank you.
23-2077 The reconmendation is adopted:
23.21 Ladies and gentlemen, it remains for me to thank the members of the Nomina- tions Committee for the work they have accomplished since the beginning of the twenty-first session of the General Conference. In particular, I wish to thank in your name the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Putzeys-Alvarez, for the skill and wisdom with which he has presided over its debates.
23.22 Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting rose at 4.05 p.m. La séance est levée a 16 h.05 Se levanta la sesión a las 16.05 Заседание закрывается B 16.05 ADEةعاشبلاىفةلجلاتعفو Sar‏