Thirtieth plenary meeting
20 5Octoberx1930 ati 1020 alum, President: Mr MARGAN (Yugoslavia) Trentième séance plénière
20 6Ctobr8 19804 10-h.20 Président : M. MARGAN (Yougoslavie) Trigésima sesiôn plenaria
1.1 The PRESIDENT: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I declare open the thirtieth plenary meeting. The first item we are to consider is item 67 - Participation of Member States in the regional activities of the Organization. 1 should like to refer you in his connection to documents 21.C/101, 217C/1J01 Add. 1 and’ 21 C/101 "Add. 2. In these documents you will find requests from a number of Member States to partici- pate in the regional activities of the Organization as well as a request to change the title of one of the geographical regions. I have had consultations with the Chairmen of all the regional groups concerned by these additions and modifications and they have all confirmed to me the full support of their groups for those requests.
1.2 I shall now remind youl ofl ihe [requests.) 1122521all, the Maldives and Tonga wish to participate in the regional activities of the Asia and Oceania region. Secondly, Turkey, which participates in the activities of the European region, also wishes to participate in the regional activities of the Asia and Oceania re- gion. Thirdly, St. Lucia wished to participate in the activities of the Latin America and Caribbean region. Fourthly, Equatorial Guinea, Botswana, Sao Tome and Principe and Zimbabwe wish to participate in the regional activities of the African region. Fifthly, a communication has been received from Papua New Guinea proposing that the title of the Asia and Oceania region be altered to Asia and the Pacific. These are the matters submitted to you for approval.
1.3 Since the groups concerned are in favour of the proposals, I shall consider them as adopted if there are no objections. Are there any objections?
1.4 There being no objections, the proposals’ are adopted.
1.5 I give the floor to thei delegate of Turkey.
2. Mr INONU (Turkey): Mr President, on behalf of the Turkish delegation, may I express our profound appreciation of this decision which, inter alia, will allow Turkey to participate in the regional activities of Member States in Asia .and Oceania, while remaining in Electoral Group I. We are grateful to our Asian and Oceanian colleagues for acknowledging our strong ties with Asia, ties which are bound up with our geography and history. We are looking forward to very fruitful collaboration with them. Thank you, Mr President.
3. The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of Turkey and I give the floor to the delegate of the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan.
4. Mr PAKTIAWAL (Afghanistan): Thank you, Mr President. In connection with the changing of the regional title "Asia and Oceania" to "Asia and the Pacific", I should like to know whether the United Nations and the other Specialized Agencies have already made a similar change. I should welcome clarification of this point because, if Unesco changes the title of a region, the other orçanizations night find it a little difficult to understand if they have not made the same change. Thank you, Mr President. Sul, The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. I am not sure of the position, but as I understand it, every organization like Unesco in the United Nations system is entitled to decide about this kind of change.
5.2 I understand that the delegate of Australia wishes to speak. He has the £toor.
6. Mr WILSON (Australia): Thank vou, Mr President. Sir, I did not want to speak to the point made/by our colleague from Afghanistan, but merely to record our appreciation to the plenary of the change in the title of our region to "Asia and the Pacific". We feel that this new title properly reflects the new membership of Unesco and the role and importance of the emerging states in the Pacific. It has our full endorsement and support. Thank you, sir.
1260        Te The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. I give the floor to the delegate of the Union GE Soviet Socialist Republics.
(8) Mr PIRADOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian): Thank you, Mr President. The Soviet delegation agrees with the views expressed by the representative of Afghanistan. It would, I consider, indeed be absolutely logical and legitimate to continue to use the existing title of the region. Thank you. o The PRESIDENT: Thank you. The delegate of New Zealand has the floor.
10. Mr BARRETT (New Zealand): Mr President, I, too, would like to extend our very grateful thanks to the Conference for its adoption of this change of name. The term "Pacific" is already in use within the United Nations system, for example, in the title of the Economic and Social Council for Asia and the Pacific, located in Bangkok. I believe that in adopting this change, Unesco has acted in accordance with the wishes of the peoples of the Pacific. ed Me PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of New Zealand. Are there any other speakers? I see none. The views expressed by the delegates of Afghanistan and the USSR will, of course, figure in the proceedings.
11.2 A resolution registering your decision will appear in the volume of resol- utions of the twenty-first session of the General Conference and the Member States concerned will thus be empowered to participate in the regional activities in which the representative character of states is an important factor. In addition, the group of countries formerly identified as the Asia and Oceania region will from now on be referred to as the Asia and Pacific region. REPORT OF PROGRAMME COMMISSION II: RESCLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS /RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION DU PROGRAMME II: RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS/INFORME DE LA COMISION DEL PROGRAMA II: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES/IOKJAX KOMUCCUU IO IPOTPAMME II: PESOJKUUU U PEKOMEHTAUUU/ closgol IAN : ‎ةيناثلاجمانربلا adE /
12+. The PRESIDENT: Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now begin our examination of the report of Programme Commission II (Natural Sciences), for which you have documents 21 C/117 andAdd. and Corr Documental C/A contaling Ene Marmaris Darts Of, Che report of the Commission, which its Chairman will present to you in a moment. Following the Commission's approval of this report at its twenty-fourth meeting, document 21 C/117 Add. and Corr. was issued and made available to you. All the modifications and additions approved by the Commission appear in this document, which will be used to prepare the final version of the Commission's report.
12.2 May I further call your attention to document 21 C/117 Annex-Recommendations, which contains the draft resolutions and the budget appropriation which the Com- mission recommends to you for adoption. I wish to remind you that the final edit- ing of the text of the draft resolutions and the necessary adjustment of these texts in the different languages will be carried out in due course by the Secretariat.
12.3 I now invite the Chairman of Programme Commission II, Professor Erdal Inönü, to present to us the report of the Commission.
13.1 Mr INONU (Turkey), Chairman of Programme Commission II: Thank you, Mr President. 1 should like to take this opportunity to thank the General Conference for the honour it has conferred upon me in electing me Chairman of the Commission of Natural Sciences, the report of which I now submit.
13.2 In pursuance of the decisions taken by the General Conference, the Commission was established to study those parts of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-
1983 which concern the natural sciences.
13.3 At its second session, on 25 September, the Commission unanimously elected Dr Aleksandra Kornhauser (Yugoslavia), Mr Edmundo de Alba (Mexico) and Professor Barnabé Karorero (Burundi) as Vice-Chairmen, and Mr Jean-François Stuyck- Taillandier (France) as Rapporteur.
13.4 From 25 September to 6 October, the Commission devoted 19 meetings to the consideration of agenda item 12, concerning the Draft Programme and Budget for
1981-1983 (document 21 C/5). The discussion of the 13 objectives relevant to the programme for the natural sciences was carried out on the basis of six Discussion vnits"tnits 7, 8, 9,10; 11'ahd\12) Er fartiie ry three meetigs were Chen spent in considering draft resolution 2/0.1 and other new draft resolutions during a general debate and a discussion of the preliminary report of the Director-General on the Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989 (document 21 C/4). The Commission's final meeting was devoted to the approval of its report.
13.5 ‘should like to'point'out that, In the course of this extensive examination of Unesco's programme and future policy in the field of natural sciences, all decisions were reached by consensus. The Commission never found it necessary to take a formal vote on any issue. I consider this to be a positive result. This happy circumstance is to my mind another demonstration of the universality of science as well as of the excellent atmosphere of understanding and co-operation which all delegates helped create in the performance of a delicate and complex task.
13.6 Mr President, please allow me to refer briefly to the objectives which were discussed in relation to the programme in the field of natural sciences and their application to development.
13.7 "Discussion of Unit 7, referring to objectives 4.1 and 4.4, highlighted the organization of the panel to advise the Director-General on the major future lines of emphasis of the Organization's programme on science and technology, as well as the possibility of promoting a new scientific and technological information periodical designed for a wider public, separate from the journal "Impact of Science on Society", the diffusion of which should also be made wider and in a greater number of languages.
13.8 In Unit 8, dealing with objectives 4.2 and 10.1, discussions led to the con- clusions, among others, that the feasibility study for the establishment of an institute for the planning of scientific and technological development should keep open all the options and in no way anticipate the decision that might be taken on the question by the General Conference at its twenty-second session; and that the Director-General should examine, on the basis of a substantial report, whether it was appropriate to continue with the pilot Science Policy Information Network System (SPINES) programme.
13.9 Under Unit 9 (objectives 4.3 and 6.A), considerable attention was paid to the status and features of the major regional projects, which met with unanimous support. Delegates drew attention to the importance of such fields as microbi- ology, biomaterials, microprocessors, new and renewable sources of energy and technologies for rural development.
13.10 The discussion on Unit 10, dealing with the Man and the Biosphere (MAB) pro- gramme, and covering objectives 7.2, 7.5, 7.6 and 7.7, emphasized the need for more intense intersectoral co-operation with the social sciences and the environ- mental education programme and noted the efforts being carried out by Unesco in this direction. Professor Ralph Slatyer (Australia), Chairman of the MAB Inter- national Co-ordinating Council, addressed the Commission and underlined the fact that the programme was now responding satisfactorily to Member States' expectations in the four major themes of tropical forests, arid zones ecosystems, urban systems and biosphere reserves.
13.11 Under Discussion Unit 11, objective 7.1 - Mineral and energy resources, and objective 7.3 - Water resources, were discussed separately. In dealing with objective 7.1, the Commission heard Dr Digby MacLaren (Canada), Chairman of the Board of the International Geological Correlation Programme (IGCP), who stressed its rapid growth, since its foundation in 1973, into. a major instrument for the transfer of geological knowledge. Unanimous support was given to the major re- gional project on "Geology for development". On objective 7.3, Dr N.B. Ayibotele (Ghana), Chairman of the Intergovernmental Council of the International Hydro- logical Programme (IHP), presenting the Council's report to the General Conference, concluded that only the rational management of water resources could prevent water from becoming critically scarce. The Commission fully endorsed the major regional projects in this area and proposed a third project on the rational utilization and conservation of water resources in rural areas in the African region.
13.12 Discussion Unit 12 concerned objective 7.4, to be pursued jointly by the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) and the Division of Marine Sci- ences. Dr Agustin Ayala Castafiares (Mexico), Chairman of IOC, remarked that the field of marine sciences and their applications was one in which the disparity between the industrialized countries and the developing countries was particularly marked, as shown by the results so far of the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea. Our Commission was pleased at the positive response to its call for increased assistance to Member States in their efforts to make more effective use of the oceans and their resources and to protect the marine environment.
13.13 At its eighteenth meeting on 4 October, the Director-General addressed the Commission and congratulated it on its work. He thanked in particular the four chairmen of the governing bodies of the intergovernmental scientific programmes for having accepted his invitation to participate in the work of the Commission, to which their presence and statements have made a significant contribution.
13.14 T wish in my turn to pay tribute, Mr President, to thesDirector-General, whose address to our Commission enriched our deliberations and enlightened us farther on the Organization's future programme and policy. The full text of his statement is annexed to the Commission's report.
13.15 Towards the end of its deliberations, the Commission considered the Director-General's report on the Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989. This led to a rich and lively debate, during which the delegates stressed the need for a thorough analysis of the major problems confronting the international community and of the contribution that science and technology can make to their solution. The Commission examined Unesco's role in this respect and its interaction with other concerned international organizations, as well as measures conducive to enhancing the effectiveness of Unesco's activity, its methods of action and the means at its disposal.
13.16 During this discussion, the Deputy Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor Zaragoza, addressed the Commission, and referred in particular to food and other human needs in relation to the increase in population and to other global prob- lems, such as deforestation and the rising content of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. He pointed out in particular that developing and developed countries face the dual problem of the search for new knowledge and the application of existing knowledge with the aim of seeking rational solutions to their outstand- ing problems.
13.17 I wish to thank Mr Mayor most warmly for his illuminating contribution which is duly reflected in the report.
13.18 Finally, Mr President, I would like to express my thanks, on behalf of the Commission, to the representatives of international organizations who took part in our deliberations for their most useful and informative interventions, which greatly contributed to a widening of the Commission's perspective on the specific items dealt with. We heard the representative of the United Nations University (UNU) , observers from the Intergovernmental Bureau for Informatics (IBI), the Permanent Secretariat of the "Andrés Bello" Convention, the Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization (ALECSO) and the Palestine Liberation Organ- ization (PLO), as well as observers from the following international non- governmental organizations: International Council of Scientific Unions (ICSU) and the World Federation of Engineering Organizations (WFEO).
13.19 Allow me to say, Mr President, that it has been a great privilege for me to have chaired the deliberations of such an outstanding group of delegates represen- tative of scientific and technological thinking from all over the world. As a scientist, I have been most enlightened by the ideas expressed during these two weeks of intensive work. I believe that the report of the Commission, which has been approved in a spirit of unanimity, may now be examined by the General Confer- ence in plenary. You have already referred to the pertinent documents, Mr President, and I now commend them to the Conference for its attention. Thank you, Mr President.
14.1 The PRESIDENT: : Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank, on your behalf, the Chairman of Programme Commission II, Professor Erdal Inönü, for his excellent presentation of the report before you. I wish particularly to thank him for having brought to the attention of the Conference the essential points examined by the Commission and for the quality of the Commission's work.
14.2 I shall now invite“you,; in"accordance’ with ’'the practice of the Conference, to take note of the narrative part of the report of Programme Commission II, as contained in documents 21 C/117 and 21 C/117 Add. and Corr.
14.3 The delegate of the People's Republic of China has asked to speak. She has the ifiooz.
(15) Mrs CHENG YUN (China) (Translation from the Chinese): Mr President, on page 3 of the English text of document 21 C/117 Add. and Corr., it is mistakingly stated that two sentences should be inserted on page 54, paragraph 16, whereas they should be inserted on page 57, paragraph 30 (c). In addition, the figure appearing at the end of the second sentence is incorrect. The words "relected in" should be followed by "resolution 2/0.1, 2 (h)", as there is no subparagraph (c) of objective 7.4. Thank you, Mr President.
16: The PRESIDENT: Thank you. If I understood correctly, these are really technical errors, but because the matter falls within the competence of Commission II, I shall ask its Chairman for an explanation.
17. Mr INONU (Turkey), Chairman of Programme Commission II: Thank you, Mr President. 1 must confess that I did not fully understand the wishes of the distinguished delegate of China, but it appeared to me that she was making a drafting proposal, which could be taken into account.
18. The PRESIDENT: I now give the floor to Mr Kaddoura, Assistant Director-General for Natural Sciences, for an explanation.
19.1 The ASSISTANT DIRECTOR-GENERAL FOR NATURAL SCIENCES: Thank you, Mr President. In the absence of the Rapporteur, perhaps I may be allowed to point out that, as correctly stated by the distinguished delegate of China, it was suggested during the discussion of the draft report of Commission II, that two sentences be added in order better to reflect its deliberations on objective 7.4 (Ocean and coastal marine systems). The sentences in question, which will be found on page 3 of the English text of document 21 C/117 Add. and Corr., refer to the discussion which is reported on page 54, paragraph 16, of the Commission's report (document 21 C/117) and read: "Some delegations suggested that the problems raised by DR. 146 should be examined in the IOC bodies. A dis- cussion followed, which resulted in the consensus reflected in the recommendations concerning “objective 7410)".
19.2 That text was read out in the Commission and - as the deiegate of China will remember - it was approved for insertion in the report.
19.3 ‘Now, Mr President, if we turn to paragraph 30 (с) on page 57 of the Com- mission's report, which concerns its recommendations on objective 7.4, we find the following text: "The Commission noted the proposal made in document DR.146 sub- mitted by the Soviet Union in the general debate, as amended by France, according to which the second sentence of paragraph 2416 _/of document [21 C/5/ should be re- placed by the following wording: "The Member States in a particular region which are to participate in a regional project will be determined in accordance with the relevant IOC rules when such projects are being drawn up'".
19.4 What appears to have happened, therefore, is that the discussion was reported in the main body of the report, while the conclusion of that discussion appears in the part dealing with the Commission's recommendation. The additional text con- tained in document 21 C/117 Add. and Corr., which I have already mentioned and which should of course be taken into account as part of the Commission's report, might be made more explicit if the word "subparagraph" were inserted between “objective 7.4" and "(6)". Mr rrissidènt, rT'hopé that his lisciate will satisfy the distinguished delegate of China.
20 The PRESIDENT: I should like to ask the distinguished delegate of the People's Republic of China if she is satisfied with this explanation.
(21) Mrs CHENG YUN (China) (Translation from the Chinese): Mr President, did Mr Kaddoura say that the additional sentences should be inserted on page 57, paragraph 30 (c)?      The PRESIDENT: The Assistant Director-General for Natural Sciences has the floor.
23: The ASSISTANT DIRECTOR-GENERAL FOR NATURAL SCIENCES: Thank you very much, sir. What I was suggesting was that perhaps the plenary could accept the amendment put forward in the Addendum and Corrigendum, page 3, Discussion Unit 12, paragraph (e), concerning page 54, paragraph 16 of the body of the report. This reflects the discussion held in the Commission and the decision appearing in the report, page 57, paragraph 30, subparagraph (c). So what I was suggesting, sir, was the insertion in document 24 0/117.Add-andiCoEx-. 2 pader3, Discussion Unit 12, paragraph (e), last line, of the word "subparagraph" between Yobjectiveh J.4 and Te)? Thank you, sir.
24. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. I give the floor to the delegate of the People's Republic of. China. Mrs CHENG YUN (China) (Translation from the Chinese): Thank you, Mr President. Since this insertion was decided on during the discussion ( age 57, paragraph 30 ‘(c), of the English text, that is of DR.146, I think it should appear on page 54, paragraph 16, of the English text. The PRESIDENT: I shall ask the Assistant Director-General for Natural Sciences to reply. The ASSISTANT DIRECTOR-GENERAL FOR NATURAL SCIENCES: Sir, if it is so wished, it could perhaps appear in both places. Thank you, The PRESIDENT: Are there any comments on that suggestion? The delegate of the People's Republic of China has the floor.
(29) Mrs CHENG YUN (China) (Translation from the Chinese): Mr President, I agree that this insertion should appear in both places. Thank vou, Mr President.
30:1 "The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of the People's Republic of China. Is the General Con- ference now ready to take note of the narrative part of the report of Programme Commission II?
3022 Mere being no objections, ‎دادك so decided.
30.3 We shall now take up the Commission's recommendations which appear in docu- ment 21 C/117 Annex-Recommendations. We shall consider draft resolutions 2/0.1,
2/0.4, 2/0.5, 2/0.6 and 2/0.7 as well as the budgetary appropriation which the Commission has recommended for adoption by the General Conference. You will observe that Commission II approved its recommendations by consensus without the need for a formal vote. I do not therefore intend to put these recommendations to the vote unless this is specifically requested. Resolutions Resolution 2/0.1
30.4 I now invite you to turn to proposed resolution 2/0.1, on pages 1-7 of docu= ment 21 C/117 Annex-Recommendations, which corresponds to the text appearing in paragraph 2002 of document 21 C/5, as amended by the Commission.
30.5 I see no objection to this text: The resolution dis; adopted-
30.6 Resolutions 2/0.2 and 2/0.3 proposed in document 21 C/5 will be submitted to the General Conference by the Nominations Committee.    Resolutions 2/0.4, 2/0.5, 2/0.6 and 2/0.7
30.7 The Commission also recommends the adoption of resolutions 2/0.4, 2/0.5,
2/0.6 and 2/0.7, which appear on pages 7-8 of document 21 C/117 Annex- Recommendations. Are there any objections?
30.8 There being no objections, resolutions 2/0.4, 2/0.5, 2/0.6 and 2/0.7 are adopted, Budget appropriation for Chapter 2 - Natural Sciences
30.9 We are now invited by the Commission, in the final paragraph of page 8 of document 21 C/117 Annex-Recommendations, to approve the budget provision of US $56,420,600 for Chapter 2 for 1981-1983, which includes the additional allo- cation of US $313,600 of reserve funds, it being understood that this figure will be adjusted to take into account any modifications which may be introduced by the joint meeting of the Programme Commissions and the Administrative Commission. Are there any objections? I see none.
30.10 The General Conference approves this budget provision. Decisions adopted by the Commission following the debate on each discussion unit and following the general debate
30.11 Finally, I invite the General Conference to take note of the decisions adopted by the Commission following the debate on each discussion unit and follow- ing the general debate, as presented in section III, pages 9 to 14, of document
21 C/117 Annex-Recommendations. In particular, I invite the General Conference to take note of the recommendations of the Commission's Bureau concerning the financial dmplicationsiiof draft resolutions 21 C/DR.2, 54,:6,.7,-8,:9,: 10, 11,212,
13, 15 and 45, indicated on page 14. The Commission approved by consensus these recommendations which concerned the use of resources still available (US $313,600) under the budget for Chapter 2 to finance new regional and international activities.
30.12 Allow me to inform you of the sums recommended for the activities presented under each of these proposals: DR.2, sponsored by Cuba, under objective 7.3: US $78,000; DR.5, sponsored by Malaysia, under objective 4.3: US $5,600; DR.6, sponsored by Malaysia, under objective 4.3: US $10,000; DR.7, sponsored by Malaysia, under objective 4.3: US $10,000; DR.8, sponsored by Malaysia, under objective 7.2: US $20,000; DR.9, sponsored by Cuba, under objective 4.3: US $20,000; DR.10, sponsored by Guinea, under objective 4.1: US $20,000; DR.11, sponsored by Guinea, under objective 4.3: US $20,000; DR.12, sponsored by Guinea, under objective 4.3: US $30,000; DR.13, sponsored by Guinea, under objective 7.3: US $50,000; DR.15, sponsored by Cuba, under objective 7.3: US $40,000; and DR. 45, sponsored by the USSR, under objective 4.3: US $10,000.
30.13 Are there any objections? I see none.
30.14 The General Conference takes note of section III of document 21 C/117 Annex-Recommendations.
30.15 Ladies and gentlemen, we have now concluded our examination of the report of Programme Commission II.
30.16 I give the floor to the Chairman of Programme Commission II.
31.1 Mr INONU (Turkey), Chairman of Programme Commission II: Thank you very much, Mr President. May I say once again that the decisions which the General Conference has just adopted and taken note of reflect the climate of understanding which characterized the work of our Commission. They have also demonstrated that science and its application to development is, by its very nature, undoubtedly a privileged area in which the goals of Unesco can be pursued in a most appropriate and effective fashion.
31.2 It is also evident, Mr President, that in this area, developing and industrialized countries alike, of all ideologies and of different historical and cultural backgrounds, find themselves united in endorsing the view that Unesco's programme in the field of science and its applications should be reinforced in furtherance of the principles of the Organization.
31.3 I should like to conclude, Mr President, by expressing my appreciation to you, and to all the delegates, of the cordial and efficient manner in which the        discussion of the science programme was carried out. I should also like to re- iterate my most sincere gratitude for the co-operation I received from everyone and particularly from the Assistant Director-General for Natural Sciences = as Chairman of this Commission and for the kind words you, Mr President, have addressed to me personally. Thank you very much.
320 The=PRESIDENT: I thank the Chairman of Programme Commission II. Ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that I associate myself entirely with the words just spoken by the Chairman of Programme Commission II. Tbelieve-thaty sin taking note of the report of the Commission and in adopting its recommendations, the General Conference has shown its appreciation of the work performed by the Chairman, the Bureau, the members of the Commission and the Secretariat. Please allow me, on your behalf, to thank Mr Inóni for having presented a document of high quality which has greatly facilitated our work this morning.
32.2 Ladies and gentlemen, before adjourning the meeting, I give the floor to the Director-General.
33.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL.- Monsieur le Président, avant de tirer les enseignements des travaux de la Com- mission II, qui s'est occupée des problèmes de la science et de la technologie, je tiens tout d'abord à m'associer aux remerciements que vous avez adressés au Prési- dent et aux membres de la Commission pour le travail extrêmement important qu'ils ont accompli.
33.2 Je voudrais aussi fournir certains renseignements complémentaires à la Confé- rence générale. A la suite du dépôt par la Guinée du projet de résolution 21 C/ DR.13 et ainsi que vous l'avez vous-même fait observer, la Commission a proposé - comme le montre le tableau figurant à la page 15 du document 21 C/117, Annexe- Recommandations - que l'Organisation entreprenne un projet majeur concernant la gestion rationnelle et la conservation des ressources en eau en milieu rural africain. Ainsi qu'il est indiqué dans le document 21 C/117, (Annexe-Recomman- dations) la mise en oeuvre de ce projet nécessiterait une dotation de 50.000 dol- lars. Or cette somme ne représente qu'un dixième du coût total du projet majeur et, compte tenu de l'importance de ce projet et du souhait que de très nombreux délégués - notamment ceux qui représentent les pays d'Afrique - ont exprimé en séance plénière aussi bien que pendant les débats de la Commission II, je me suis efforcé de trouver le financement complémentaire.
33.3 L'exécution du projet nécessiterait en effet, comme il est indiqué dans le document 21 C/DR.13, une somme de 440.000 dollars, exprimée en dollars constants. Ce qui veut dire que si l'on tient compte de la dépréciation du taux de change du dollar et de l'inflation, c'est une somme égale ou supérieure à 500.000 dollars qu'il faudrait trouver pour que le projet majeur puisse être mené à bien. J'ai effectué des démarches auprès de certains gouvernements et j'espère être en mesure sinon d'ici la fin de la vingt et unième session, du moins aussitôt après la Confé- rence générale, de disposer en dehors du programme ordinaire de l'Organisation des sommes nécessaires pour exécuter ce projet qui revêt une importance considérable pour les Etats membres d'Afrique.
33.4 J'ajouterai que dans le cas où d'autres moyens encore pourraient être déga- gés, nous irions bien entendu au-delà de ce qui est prévu dans le document 21 C/ DR.13 que la Guinée a présenté et qui est accompagné d'une note du Directeur général.
33.5 Je signalerai en dernier lieu que ce sont évidemment les pays du Sahel afri- cain - où le problème des ressources en eau disponibles pour le développement ru- ral est le plus crucial - qui bénéficieront le plus des mesures prises dans le cadre du projet en question. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
34. The PRESIDENT: Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is adjourned. The meeting rose at 11.15 a.m. La séance est levée à 11 h.15 Se levanta la sesiôn a las 11.15 Заседание закрывается в 11.15 GEE ess, lo ‎يتلا #11 115