Twenty-fourth plenary meeting
7 October 1980. at 10.00 a.m. President: Mr AL JAMMAZ (Saudi Arabia) Vingt-quatrième séance plénière
7 octobre 1980 à 10 heures Président : M. AL JAMMAZ (Arabie saoudite) Vigesimocuarta sesion plenaria
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic): I declare open the twenty-fourth plenary meeting. We shall continue with the general policy debate. I give the floor to Mr John Muzeyi Ntimba, Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of Education and Head of the delegation of Uganda.
2.1 Mr NTIMBA (Uganda) : Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentle- men, I deem it a great honour and indeed a very pleasant duty to be given this opportunity to convey to you all greetings from the Chairman of the Military Com- mission of the Uganda National Liberation Front, the Government and the entire people of the Republic of Uganda.
2.2 My delegation joins me in exoressing to Mr Ivo Margan our heartfelt congra- tulations on his well-deserved election to the very resvonsible position of leader- ship in the affairs of this session. We wish to associate ourselves with all those who have expressed great confidence in him and elected him to this post. I am sure that, under his guidance, this session of the Conference will conclude its business successfully and usefully. We also wish to pay a tribute to Mr Napoléon LeBlanc, under whose wise leadership this session began successfully.
2.3 Mc President, this is a spécial occasion for us. It is an occasion vhen ali Member States of this august institution have looked back with great appreciation to the excellent work performed by the Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, an outstanding figure in the international civil service and, in recognition of his exceptional contribution to Unesco, have re-elected him for a second term of office. It is my firm belief that, under his wise management, Unesco's action will be all the more effective in the years ahead. Mr President, my delegation wishes to avail itself of this opportunity to vledge our country's continued full support and co-operation in facilitating his efforts in the service of this great Organization and of humanity.
2.4 During the past two decades, Unesco has undergone significant and constant growth and development. Today we are happy to welcome in our midst representa- tives of our brothers and sisters from Dominica, Equatorial Guinea, Botswana, Sac Tome and Principe, Saint Lucia, the Maldives, the Kingdom of Tonga and Zimbabwe. To those of you who have recently thrown off the yoke of colonial rule and subjugation, we pay tribute to the sacrifices you have made and the price you have paid to achieve nationhood. Special praise must go to the gallant people of Zimbabwe for whom the attainment of freedom has involved protracted struggle and self-sacrifice. We are confident, however, that their spirit of determination will continue to guide the citizens of Zimbabwe in their efforts to play their rightful role in the activities of this international body, for the benefit of their own people in particular, and of humanity in general.
2.5 It is with a deep sense of gratitude that my delegation wishes to place on record its appreciation of the excellent manner in which the host country has made arrangements for the successful holding of the Conference. Through our President, Mr Margan, we wish to convey our thanks to the Government and the people of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The hospitality which all of us are enjoying has gone a long way towards ensuring the effective parti- cipationiof all inthe work of the Conference.
2.6 Mr President, as we meet in this great city of Belgrade, we are constantly reminded of the absence of that great champion of the Non-Aligned Movement, Marshal Josip Broz Tito. The fruits of his enormous contribution to the noble goals of peace on earth will live with us for generations to come; the world is all the poorer without him. We can pay him no greater tribute than to resolve to carry the torch of freedom and peaceful coexistence and to uphold all the principles he stood for in the interests of peace, the dignity of man and the progress of humanity.
2.7 Mr President, my delegation considers this to be a particularly memorable occasion for Uganda. The events which have occurred in our country during the greater part of the past decade are too well known to the world for me to need to relate them. Suffice to say that the repressive regime to which the people of Uganda were subjected was characterized by the flagrant violation of all forms of human rights (the only exception in this regard being, perhaps, the right to die). Nevertheless, with a deep sense of patriotism, our countrymen joined hands with friends and well-wishers and, by dint of persistent efforts and determination, drove a repressive and murderous regime out of our land. The eight years of utter neglect of educational development, coupled with the destruction caused by war, has left our educational institutions shattered. Whole towns were levelled to the ground. School buildings were destroyed or extensively damaged. School equipment and scholastic materials were either destroyed or looted. The work of restoring these institutions to normal functioning conditions is a tremendous one which cannot be undertaken by Ugandans single-handed. The road to reconstruction and rehabilitation is long and arduous. Since the liberation of the country, we have endeavoured to determine our priorities and strategies, but the list of such priorities and requirements is almost endless. In the field of education, they include the replacement of furniture, equipment and textbooks in the war- affected schools, reconstruction of and repairs to schools and colleges, rein- forcement of the teaching profession, repairs and maintenance of old school build- ings which were neglected during the last decade due to lack of materials and funds, the revival of retarded projects paralysed in the last decade due to lack of funds and building materials, the reactivation of projects abandoned at Makerere University and other institutions and the building up of an infrastruc- ture and transport services. This list is by no means exhaustive.
2.8 This is a tremendous task. In our efforts to attain the goals which we have set ourselves in this connection, we have been hampered by inflation, which has made the cost of providing education services prohibitive. Added to this is the unprecedented drought experienced in parts of Uganda, like Karamoja, which has brought famine and untold miseries in its wake. This catastrophe has made it unavoidable to divert some of the development funds available to the rehabilitation and relief of the affected people.
207 MTC President, it isi evident, therefore, ‚that. the task of rehabilitating the country and ensuring a complete return to normalcy is not an easy one. It is true to say that since the liberation of Uganda the country has not been without political problems. Some of these problems have culminated in political upheavals involving changes of leadership. This has been interpreted in some quarters as a sign of political immaturity and lack of seriousness on our part. Following such events, some of our well-wishers and aid donors have adopted a "wait-and-see" attitude. Let me assure my distinguished audience that the road to complete re- habilitation and reconstruction of a war-ravaged and neglected nation is not an easy one. Those countries which experienced similar or more serious situations at the end of the Second World War will fully appreciate our problems. We wish to tell all our friends and well-wishers the world over that we crave nothing more than a modicum of understanding and full co-operation during this difficult and critical period of our development. Mr President, allow me at this juncture to appeal to all our friends and well-wishers who have heard about our calamities to donate generously to relieve the human suffering and misery in our country. Permit me to say that the time to do this is now - not next year or the year after.
2.10 Mr President, I wish to state that, in order to ensure that our efforts to rehabilitate the country are fruitful and to facilitate the effective development of our nation, Uganda fully recognizes the importance of the restoration of demo- cratic institutions with a view to creating an appropriate atmosphere for the achievement of these goals. We are determined, more than ever before, to ensure that the decision to hold parliamentary elections on 10 December this year is implemented. It is our firm hope that once we have achieved this aim, Ugandans will be able to hold their heads high and march forward shoulder to shoulder with the other developing nations of the world along the path of peace, progress and prosperity.
2.11 Mr President, may I express my country's appreciation of Unesco's prompt response to our urgent request for rehabilitation assistance. The Director- General wasted no time in sending a mission to Uganda immediately after the Liberation War, to assess our urgent needs. We are convinced that progress has been made in this regard and we are anxiously awaiting the results of Unesco's efforts. I cannot overlook the encouraging response given by other organs of the United Nations which are also engaged in rehabilitation activities for the benefit of other sectors of Uganda's economy. Special thanks go to all the other countries that have answered our appeal for help in this hour of need by pledging or offering bilateral assistance.
2.12 Mr President, allow me to express my delegation's appreciation of Unesco's emphasis on education as a prerequisite to social development. Uganda wishes to associate itself with the will to achieve universal and compulsory education be- fore the end of the century. Mr President, the Ugandan delegation notes with appreciation the emphasis placed in the draft programme and budget on cultural identity, the status of women and rural development. We are sparing no efforts, during the rehabilitation and reconstruction period, to re-establish structures which enhance the status of women, develop community life and preserve and pro- mote our cultural heritage. Women have played their due role in all aspects of our development. They hold posts of responsibility at all levels. In particular, in the development of our education system, Uganda attaches great importance to their education, for we believe| that whoever educates a man educates an indi- vidual, but whoever educates a women educates a nation.
2.13 Uganda continues to play an active role in United Nations' efforts to im- prove the status of women. Our participation in the World Conference on the United Nations Decade for Women in July 1980 was a sign not only of our commit- ment to the improved status of women but also of our belief in the effectiveness of the Conference in the cause of equality, development and peace. Several re- lated projects, such as children's day-care centres, women's conferences, women's voluntary organizations and leadership programme for women continue to be spon- sored by the Uganda Government.
2.14 In the field of community development, emergency measures have been taken to focus attention on social and moral rehabilitation as a prerequisite to rural development. In April this year, in collaboration with the United Nations Centre on Human Settlements (HABITAT), the government launched a combined mission to re- habilitate refugee facilities in the country in order to maintain services for refugees and displaced communities.
2.15 In our efforts to foster and preserve our cultural identity, we have identified projects designed to meet new needs and aspirations. These have included, inter alia, the establishment and use of archaeological laboratories in order to improve the study and use of conservation techniques and excavation facilities.
2.16 Mr President, I would be failing in my duty if I neglected to express here Uganda's appreciation of Unesco's continuing support in the provision of Basic Education Integrated into Rural Development (BEIRD). I am pleased to report that in spite of certain problems and drawbacks, the project has taken root and has become an essential component of our educational system, serving to inculcate into the minds of our youth the importance of utilizing the environment rather than allowing themselves to be controlled by it. We firmly believe that BEIRD is an important landmark on the road to rehabilitation and reconstruction, because it is in the rural setting that the current problems and challenges of economic and social development can best be tackled. This project is also in keeping with the government's declared policy of training job-makers rather than job-seekers. Experience has shown that, given the difficulties and constraints of the past decade, the need for our institutions to make maximum use of locally available materials has never been greater.
2.17 With regard to the development of the Science Sector, permit me, Mr President, to state that we are very appreciative of the fact that, during our deliberations, the important subject of science and society and science and technology has been accorded the importance that it deserves in view of its far- reaching implications for social and economic development. I am pleased to observe that Unesco is fully aware of the need to ensure that science and tech- nology are not developed for their own sake, but are related to the needs of society. We have a lot to learn in this connection from the contemporary experi- ence of the developed countries, where science and technology have not only con- tributed to good health, comfort, convenience and efficiency, but have also aggra- vated pollution problems.
2.18 My delegation further believes that the development of a better understand- ing of the nature of science and technology and of their role in the changing society (objective 4.4) will rightly promote the formulation and application of policies and the improvement of planning and financing in the fields of science and technology. We are convinced that it is indeed high time for each Member State to decide what should be done and what should not be done with regard to science and technology and recognize that well-thought-out policies can only be to the advantage of society. With due modesty, my delegation would like to pro- pose that Uganda should be selected as a specific example of the general model. Traditional science and technology education in Uganda is no longer meaningful, having broken down through lack of facilities. Policies have not been applied or put into practice for a decade. Parts of our cultural and natural heritage have been destroyed, with the result that vast virgin energy resources remain untapped.            Some of our terrestrial biological resources are threatened with extinction. The enormous water resources are not protected against pollution. It is £orithis reason that my delegation has strongly supported the substantial increase in the budget proposed for the 1981-1983 triennium despite the modest resources gr Unesco.
2.19 Because of insurmountable problems, most of the Unesco-assisted projects which were launched in Uganda in the early seventies have either been terminated or suspended. The only ongoing project concerns the establishment of the faculty of technology, but even this project has suffered so many drawbacks that it has proved impossible to fulfil the objectives. We are, therefore, left with no choice but to play the "Oliver Twist" role by coming forward with repeated requests for continued assistance to this young faculty.
2.20 Mr President, it is our intention to renovate the teaching of science at the tertiary level by injecting into it more applied aspects ofthe subject, in Offer to make it more directly applicable to Ugandan society and thus consistent with our objectives. For this, we shall call for Unesco assistance.
2.21 TI am also happy to note that distinguished delegates have addressed them- selves to the equally important subject of science and technology research and training and integrated rural development, where the question of implementation is a significant one. The successful implementation of resolutions is only feas- ible if properly trained scientists and technologists are available to help trans- form aspirations into realities. Once we have the necessary manpower, we must put it to good use in programmes of integrated rural development and thus "plough back" the return on investment. I should like to point out that Uganda takes special interest in the MAB programme, into which the Rwenzori area in Uganda was recently incorporated. However, a decade of erosion has affected our game reserves to such an extent that certain animal species are threatened with extinction, as I have indicated earlier. We are also anxious to determine the possible effects of such extinction on the terrestrial ecosystem as a whole. Uganda is currently participating in the International Hydrological Programme (IHP) and fully supports the launching of further programmes for its development.
2.22 Mr President, with regard to the development of the Social Science Sector, permit me to state that Uganda has been working closely with the Centre for the Co-ordination of Social Science Research and Documentation in Africa south of the Sahara (CERDAS). In 1981, Uganda is to host a conference on social sciences to explore the best ways of assisting in the preparation and publication of inter- disciplinary teaching materials. We should be greatly honoured to host, under contract, a training seminar by Unesco on recent developments in social science theory and methods. We are happy to note that Unesco proposes to establish a post of regional adviser for the social sciences in Africa, to be based in Dakar, to assist in the execution of activities such as those I have mentioned.
2.23 Mr President, Uganda notes with satisfaction the establishment of a Volun- tary Fund for the Development of Knowledge of Human Rights through Teaching and Information. In this connection, permit me to say a word about the restoration of human rights since the liberation of my country. One of the ways in which this has been achieved is related to the matter of freedom of the press, which in Uganda has been allowed to operate unhampered.
2.24 Uganda has, moreover, taken an active part in the process of establishing communication policies in Africa and has participated in the Unesco-sponsored Intergovernmental Conference on Communication Policies in Africa in Yaoundé ‘and in the Intergovernmental Conference for Co-operation on Activities, Needs and Programmes for Communication held in Paris in April this year. In accordance with the practical approach that the country is adopting in the communication field, my government is planning to establish a rural press and a mass communi- cations institute.
2.25 Mr President, before I conclude, I wish to state that my delegation has made a detailed examination of the budget proposals and is happy to note that full account has been taken of the priorities of Member States in the budgetary appro- priations. We particularly appreciate the fact that, in the face Of current monetary constraints, efforts have been made to effect savings where possible, in order to minimize the burden on the contributing member countries. Mr President, my delegation regards this as a pragmatic approach which has our full support congratulate the Director-General and his staff on this commendable effort. Thank you, Mr President. :سيئرلا Salسيئر‏hslgelas] Neyميلعتلانعلوؤسملاةلودلاضوفمء,وتنىبيكامىدناوفمذاتساللةملكلا‏ mb Aeuo ‎ةينطولاةنجللاسيئرو,ىوناثلاو ss
(3) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic): I thank the Head of the delegation of Uganda and I now give the floor to Mr Mvuendi Makebi Ntu, Commissioner of State for Primary and Secondary Education, Chairman of the National Commission for Unesco and Head of the delegation of Zaire.
4.1 М. M'VUENDI (Zaire) .- Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs, honorables délégués, vous me permettrez, en prenant la parole, de m'acquitter d'un devoir agréable. Je voudrais, avant tout, remercier au nom de la délégation de la République du Zaire ainsi qu'en mon nom personnel, le gouvernement de la Répu- blique fédérative socialiste de Yougoslavie, de traditions culturelles millé- naires, d'avoir bien voulu inviter l'Unesco à tenir à Belgrade la vingt et unième session de sa Conférence générale. L'expression de mes sentiments de gratitude va aussi à tout le peuple yougoslave, peuple ami du Zaïre.
4.2 Je ne puis laisser passer cette occasion sans évoquer la mémoire du maréchal Josip Broz Tito, l'un des fondateurs du Mouvement des pays non alignés. Le prési- dent Tito a été le grand artisan de l'indépendance de la Yougoslavie moderne, pays où vivent dans l'harmonie différentes nationalités et qui est un exemple éloquent en même temps qu'un élément de référence pour nombre d'Etats africains dans les- quels vivent des communautés de cultures et de langues différentes. Aussi est-ce avec regret que la communauté internationale continue d'évoquer le souvenir d'un homme dont la vie tout. entière fut vouée à la recherche des voies et moyens propres à consolider le rôle du Mouvement des pays non alignés, en tant que fac- teur situé hors des blocs. Sa contribution à la cause de la paix et de la sécurité internationales a été remarquable.
4.3 Je félicite également M. Ivo Margan, vice-président du Conseil exécutif de la République fédérative socialiste de Yougoslavie et chef de la délégation yougo- slave à la présente session de la Conférence générale pour sa brillante élection à la présidence de nos assises. Permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, de souligner qu'en portant sur sa personne son choix unanime, la Conférence générale n'a pas voulu se conformer à une certaine tradition internationale, mais rendre au con- traire hommage à ses qualités d'homme d'Etat expérimenté maîtrisant les problèmes de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture dans son pays. La délégation du Zaïre tient à l'assurer qu'elle reste prête à collaborer entièrement avec lui afin de l'aider à s'acquitter de son mandat.
4.4 Monsieur le Directeur général, puisque j'interviens après le renouvellement de votre mandat, permettez-moi de vous présenter mes félicitations les plus chaleu- reuses pour votre réélection à la tête du Secrétariat de notre Organisation. Les suffrages exprimés ont démontré plus que ne le ferait aucun discours combien les Etats membres ont apprécié votre action et avec quel espoir ils attendent que vous contribuiez à la recherche de la paix. la délégation du Zaïre vous exprime, par ma voix, ses voeux de succès pour votre septennat.
4.5 Monsieur le Président, depuis la vingtième session, la grande famille de l'Unesco s'est enrichie de nouveaux membres, essentiellement de pays qui viennent d'accéder à l'indépendance après une longue lutte. Je salue la présence de ces nouveaux Etats parmi nous. Je leur souhaite la bienvenue. Je suis convaincu qu'ils apporteront une contribution efficace à la réalisation des objectifs de l'Organisation.
4.6 Monsieur le Président, notre vingt et unième session se tient à un moment où les tensions, les foyers de crise se multiplient un peu partout. Les relations de force tendent à se substituer aux relations de droit. La coopération internatio- nale s'en trouve gravement menacée. Cette situation, chacun de nous la juge, à juste titre d'ailleurs, très dangereuse, car elle menace de rompre l'équilibre international et de précipiter tous les Etats dans une guerre affreuse où il n'y aurait pratiquement ni vainqueurs ni vaincus. Il importe dès lors que notre Orga- nisation prenne conscience de tous les dangers que présente cette situation et recherche dans les domaines de sa compétence des solutions afin de restaurer la confiance et un climat international de paix.
4.7 Dans le rapport oral qu'il a présenté au Conseil exécutif, à sa 110e session, le Directeur général se disait vivement préoccupé par les conséquences incalcu- lables et incontrôlables de la situation de misère où se trouvent encore des popu- lations entières sur notre planète. Le fossé entre les nantis et les non-nantis ne cesse de se creuser. L'avenir des pays en développement apparaît de plus en plus précaire.
4.8 Loin de s'enfermer dans une position d'immobilisme coupable, les pays en dé- veloppement essaient par tous les moyens, de briser cet état anachronique grâce à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international. Le Zaïre pour sa part a participé d'une manière active à tous les forums internationaux qui ont eu pour        mission de poser et ensuite de résoudre tous les problémes qui touchent à l'instau- 24 ration d'un nouvel ordre économique international. Les pays en développement sont en droit de réclamer la modification d'un état de choses qui leur a été imposé pendant la période de colonisation. Ils veulent désormais jouer le rôle que leur confèrent leur nombre, leurs potentialités économiques et humaines. Nous sommes heureux de constater que ces préoccupations trouvent un large écho dans le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1981-1983 qui nous est soumis par le Directeur général. Il est un fait que le développement des pays africains et autres dépend d'abord d'eux-mêmes.
4.9 Monsieur le Président, depuis l'avènement du nouveau régime en République du Zaïre, c'est-à-dire depuis 1965, de nombreuses réformes en matière d'enseignement ont été entreprises sous la haute direction du Citoyen Mobutu Sese Seko, prési- dent-fondateur du Mouvement populaire de la révolution et président de la Répu- blique. Toutes ces réformes ont pour objectif la restructuration de l'appareil éducatif en vue d'une plus large diffusion des connaissances. Le Conseil exécutif, - le gouvernement du Zaire - fait en sorte que tous les jeunes zaïrois puissent bénéficier des mêmes chances et puissent nourrir les mêmes espérances devant la vie.
4.10 Permettez-moi de faire remarquer que pour donner suite aux différentes re- commandations de l'Unesco, le Conseil exécutif du Zaïre a mené une action inten- sive afin d'accroître le taux de scolarisation : celui-ci a atteint 75 % pour l'ensemble du pays. La réforme de l'enseignement au Zaïre, il importe de le souli- gner, a touché tous les niveaux du système, enseignement universitaire, enseigne- ment supérieur, enseignements primaire et secondaire, afin de répondre aux besoins spécifiques du pays. D'année en année, le budget consacré à l'enseignement au Zaïre ne cesse d'augmenter ; il représente depuis dix ans, plus de 20 % du budget global de l'Etat, soit 7 % du produit intérieur brut. Des efforts particuliers ont été faits afin de répartir plus judicieusement les écoles dans toutes les régions du pays. L'enseignement primaire a été réorganisé de manière à l'adapter aux né- cessités de la vie agricole et industrielle. L'enseignement moyen est appelé à fournir au pays les éléments qui sont nécessaires à son développement dans tous les domaines, compte tenu de l'apparition d'emplois nouveaux. L'enseignement technique et professionnel a été rationalisé de manière qu'il puisse fournir au pays les cadres techniques moyens nécessaires à son développement. Les efforts en vue de promouvoir l'enseignement supérieur et universitaire se poursuivent inlassablement.
4.11 Monsieur le Président, nous tenons à remercier vivement l'Unesco pour le soutien actif qu'elle ne cesse de nous apporter pour la réalisation de toutes ces réformes.
4.12 Le Zaïre soutient fermement l'action de l'Unesco car elle contribue réelle- ment à créer les conditions indispensables au développement dans les pays sous- équipés. De ce fait, le Zaïre est satisfait du document 21 C/5 : Projet de pro- gramme et de budget pour 1981-1983, et du fait qu'il témoigne d'un important effort de concentration par les regroupements opérés, par une conception plus cohérente des activités, par l'approche interdisciplinaire adoptée, par la sim- plification de la présentation et l'importance des dotations budgétaires.
4.13 Nous approuvons particulièrement le déplacement d'accent très sensible en faveur de la science et de la technologie ainsi que de leur application au dévelop- pement. Nous approuvons également la proposition relative à la mise en oeuvre de huit projets majeurs régionaux de caractère interdisciplinaire et intégré, ainsi que les activités envisagées dans le domaine de la lutte contre l'analphabétisme, notamment dans le cadre du projet majeur proposé.
4.14 Nous nous réjouissons de la place qu'occupe dans l'ensemble du programme la notion d'identité culturelle qui est un puissant facteur de coopération entre les peuples. Pour nous, qu'il s'agisse de la promotion des arts, du théâtre ou de la protection du patrimoine culturel ou spirituel, l'objectif fondamental est de faire connaître au monde l'expression de nos cultures originales qui traduisent notre personnalité et renvoient à nos peuples l'image des aspirations qui leurs sont propres, de leurs expériences ou de leurs joies éclairées par les épreuves les espérances du monde.
4.15 C'est pourquoi nous accordons aux langues nationales zaïroises une impor- tance particulière. C'est pourquoi, saluant également avec joie le plan Horizon
2000 par lequel le Directeur général se proposait de faire accéder une des langues africaines au statut de langue internationale, nous lui demandions, il y a deux ans, lors de la vingtième session de la Conférence générale, d'accorder une atten- tion soutenue au Swahili dont l'aire géographique couvre pratiquement tout l'est de l'Afrique. Nous trouvons dans le 21 C/5 un écho favorable à ce souhait, car    nous y lisons notamment que "l'élaboration des derniers volumes de l'Histoire géné- rale de l'Afrique et la diffusion dans différentes langues des volumes déjà pu- bliés seront poursuivies" et qu'"une édition abrégée en langues africaines, telles que le hawsa et le kiswahili est prévue".
4.16 En ce qui concerne les sciences exactes et naturelles, nous nous félicitons des activités proposées par le Directeur général et qui, grâce aux réseaux des programmes scientifiques intergouvernementaux tels que le MAB, la COI, le PHI, visent à la protection, à la gestion et à la mise en valeur rationnelle des res- sources terrestres et océanographiques. Devant l'énorme gaspillage de ressources non renouvelables auquel nous assistons aujourd'hui, les études préconisées dans le 21 C/5 nous paraissent fondamentales car elles permettent à la fois de mettre en lumière le danger que court l'humanité et de définir des mesures pratiques à prendre pour faire face à cette situation. La république du Zaïre porte un intérêt réel à ces programmes, notamment au Programme sur l'homme et la biosphère (MAB) dont le but est d'aboutir, sur le plan de l'exploitation, à des écosystèmes rema- niés mais stables et ayant une productivité soutenue en vue d'améliorer le niveau de vie des populations vivant dans ces écosystèmes.
4.17 La délégation du ZaÏre voudrait néanmoins faire quelques commentaires à pro- pos du projet majeur n° 1, intitulé "Projet majeur régional en biotechnologie et microbiologie appliquée". Ce projet intéresse l'Afrique et les Etats arabes et doit avoir comme objectif socio-économique l'amélioration de l'économie rurale, de l'alimentation et des agro-industries ainsi que la valorisation des produits agri- coles. En dépit de l'intérêt que suscitent les résultats attendus de ce projet majeur régional, la délégation du Zaïre ne peut s empêcher de noter que la prio- rité donnée à ce projet pour l'Afrique lui paraît à première vue quelque peu ambi- tieuse. En effet, il s 'agit- la d'un domaine dans lequel le continent africain de- vrait d'abord atteindre sinon dépasser un certain seuil de développement scienti- fique et technologique avant de tirer profit d'un tel projet. Car, comme le dit si bien le Directeur général dans le paragraphe 62 de l'Introduction au 21 C/5, "... le progrès scientifique et technique exige, outre la formation spécialisée de ceux qui le mettent en oeuvre et le conçoivent, un ensemble d' attitudes, de moti- vations et de connaissances sans lesquelles les hommes appelés à jouer un rôle dans le processus d'innovation ne seraient pas suffisamment préparés pour l'exer- cer. C'est pourquoi l'accroissement des efforts de l'Organisation en matière de science et de technologie appelle une action renforcée dans le domaine de l'éduca- tion et tout particulièrement dans les parties du programme relatives à la forma- tion générale en matière de science et technologie (objectif 4.4) et à l'enseigne- ment technique et professionnel (objectif 5.8)". Il y aurait donc peut-être lieu de songer à mettre sur pied simultanément un autre projet, susceptible de produire des résultats tangibles, ayant des effets immédiats sur les capacités endogènes de création scientifique et technologique et donc sur le développement socio-écono- nique: Il nous paraît indispensable de connaître la capacité d' absorption de l'Afrique avant de mettre sur pied ce genre de projets, de peur qu'ils ne tournent à vide. Pendant longtemps, en effet, L'Afrique n' a été qu'un grand laboratoire pour des recherches dont le résultat n'a servi qu'à d'autres.
4.18 En ce qui concerne les sciences sociales, le Projet de programme et de bud- get pour 1981-1983 présente un ensemble complet, détaillé et à nos yeux audacieux. Les objectifs retenus couvrent tous les domaines du développement global de la société et nous nous réjouissons d'y voir figurer des activités se rapportant à la condition de la femme et à sa participation à la vie politique et sociale. En effet, le changement en faveur de la femme ne peut se réaliser que dans la mesure où elle dispose des moyens effectifs de décision sur le plan politique et social dans son pays. Nous pensons principalement aux femmes défavorisées, sur lesquelles l'action de l'Organisation peut avoir un impact particulièrement bénéfique.
4.19 Quant au sous-secteur de la communication, Monsieur le Président, chacun sait qu'à cette vingt et unième session, la Conférence générale est appelée à prendre des décisions importantes pour donner suite à des recommandations de di- verses réunions ou conférences tenues depuis la fin de la dix-neuvième session. Nous faisons ici allusion notamment au rapport de la Commission internationale d'étude des problèmes de la communication, à la recommandation de la Conférence intergouvernementale de coopération sur les activités, besoins et programmes rela- tifs au développement des communications, tenue à Paris en avril dernier, et aux recommandations de la Conférence de Yaoundé sur les politiques de la communication en Afrique.
4.20 La délégation du Zaïre félicite la Commission MacBride pour le travail réa- lisé et estime que les études devraient être poursuivies et-permettre à 1! Organi- sation d'établir un programme d'action propre à amorcer le processus tendant a rétablir l'équilibre dans cet important secteur qu'est la communication. Par ailleurs, nous accueillons avec la plus grande satisfaction la recommandation de la Conférence du mois d'avril et insistons pour que non seulement le Programme        international pour le développement de la communication soit adopté par la Confé- rence, mais aussi pour que des fonds importants soient affectés a ce programme, afin de lui permettre d'atteindre les objectifs qui lui seront assignés.
4.21 Comme nous le disions au Directeur général lors de sa visite officielle en République du Zaire, il s'agit pour nous de répondre aux souhaits contenus dans le document DG/79/24 où M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow disait notamment que "pour permettre à chaque peuple de faire entendre sa voix et d'exprimer, à sa fagon, la perception qu'il a de sa propre condition et des problèmes du monde, il importe nécessaire- ment de définir des principes et de tracer des voies susceptibles d'engager l'en- semble de la communauté internationale dans une action vigoureuse et solidaire". Le Directeur général insistait sur le rôle essentiel qui incombe aux moyens de communication de masse, pour contribuer à créer un climat de compréhension mutuelle entre les peuples et d'entente entre les nations, en vue du renforcement de la paix. La communication est au coeur du développement, a également dit Ie Directeur général. Elle est le ressort d'une participation véritablement démocratique à la définition de ses objectifs et à l'évaluation de son impact ainsi que le catalyseur qui peut assurer le plus sûrement l'intégration harmonieuse et l'enrichissement mutuel des différentes ethnies d'une même nation. Nous faisons nôtre cette vision des choses et souhaitons qu'il en soit réellement ainsi pour toutes les nations.
4.22 Monsieur le Président, l'action de l'Unesco est comprise par les peuples du monde grâce à ses relais que sont les comnissions nationales. Aussi la République du Zaïre accorde-t-elle une attention toute particulière à la commission nationale dont les activités s'étendent au-delä du cadre bureaucratique en engageant les jeunes à la réflexion et à l'action dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science, de la culture et de l'information, en vue de leur faire prendre cons- cience des idéaux de l'Organisation et de susciter chez eux une participation effi- cace à l'élaboration et à la mise en oeuvre du programme. Plusieurs Clubs Unesco sont créés à cet effet dans les grandes villes du Zaïre. Ils sont entièrement ani- més par des jeunes dynamiques et leurs thèmes privilégiés de réflexion concernent principalement l'exaltation de l'être humain et l'affirmation vécue collectivement des droits de l'homme comme concrétisation d'un impératif que les jeunes res- sentent dans leur conscience la plus intime. Ces jeunes sont encadrés par les aînés qui mettent à leur disposition leurs conseils et leur sagesse en vue d'évi- ter certains écueils.
4.23 Monsieur le Président, il y a certes quelques domaines non moins importants, tel le droit d'auteur, dont nous n'avons pas parlé dans cette brève intervention. Cela ne veut pas dire que le Zaïre n'y attache pas d'importance ; au contraire, nous nous félicitons des dispositions prises par le Directeur général dans ces domaines et sommes satisfaits des actions proposées dans le 21 C/5.
4.24 Il est évident que devant l'importance des besoins des Etats membres, et surtout des Etats sous-équipés, le budget proposé paraît insuffisant à maints égards. Nous félicitons néanmoins le Directeur général d'avoir su en dépit des difficultés économiques que nous connaissons tous présentement, tenir compte de la nécessité d'une aide urgente efficace à ces Etats qui attendent l'intervention de l'Organisation pour le développement harmonieux de leurs institutions éducatives et culturelles, seul moyen pour eux d'assurer un développement endogène authen- tique ayant l'homme pour centre. Puisse ce budget prendre un nouvel essor lors de prochains exercices biennaux.
4.25 Monsieur le Président, j'en viens, pour terminer, au document 21 C/4 qui nous présente un rapport préliminaire du Directeur général sur le Plan à moyen terme pour 1984-1989. Nous sommes heureux de constater que pour élaborer ce docu- ment, le Secrétariat a pris pour point de départ l'analyse des problèmes mondiaux actuels et s'est efforcé, à partir de là, de dégager les orientations qui doivent guider l'action de l'Organisation pendant la période considérée. Il ne faudrait cependant pas perdre de vue que les problèmes mondiaux actuels ne sont que le pro- duit des problèmes auxquels l'humanité s'est trouvée confrontée il y a quelques années et auxquels elle n'a pas su trouver de solutions. Cela devra amener l'Orga- nisation à éviter de s'attaquer aux problèmes sous la forme qu'ils présentent aujourd'hui ; elle devra plutôt rechercher leur origine et entreprendre une action en profondeur en vue de tuer le mal à la racine. La plupart des grands problèmes actuels de l'humanité sont insolubles si l'on essaie de les résoudre tels qu'ils se présentent actuellement, c'est-à-dire au bout de leur évolution. Il en est ainsi de l'épineux problème du désarmement ; il en est ainsi de l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international ; il en est ainsi du respect des droits de l'homme, de l'élimination du colonialisme, du racisme et de l'apartheid. La délégation du Zaïre approuve la méthode qu'a adoptée le Secrétariat pour enrichir cette réflexion qui doit aboutir à l'établissement du deuxième Plan à moyen terme.
4.26 La République du Zaïre renouvelle son adhésion à l'Acte constitutif et aux idéaux de l'Unesco dont la mission essentielle est de créer des ponts entre les    nations par l'éducation, la science et la culture et de promouvoir une civilisa- tion universelle, patrimoine de tous, dans un monde solidaire. L'Organisation a encore du chemin à parcourir pour atteindre les objectifs qui lui sont été assi- gnés par ses pères fondateurs. Mais rien ne peut ébranler la volonté des Etats déterminés à construire un monde meilleur où règnent la justice, la fraternité et l'amour qui sont le fondement même de la paix. Je vous remercie. TEE MSNNEN Ga AaL3SAT ‎ءاكياماجدفوةسيئرلسارنوسريفكام
(5) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic): I thank the Head of the delegation of Zaire and I now give the floor to Dr Phyllis MacPherson-Russell, Minister of Education, Youth and Sports and Head of the delegation of Jamaica.
6.1 Mrs MACPHERSON-RUSSELL (Jamaica): Mr President, distinguished delegates, allow me, even at this late stage of the policy debate, to join in the congratulations expressed to Mr Margan on his election as President of the General Conference and to the Director-General on his re-election. We also extend a warm welcome to the new states which have recently joined the Organization, Equatorial Guinea, Botswana, Sao Tome and Principe, our sister Caribbean state of Saint Lucia, the Maldives and Zimbabwe, and we join in thanking for their generous hospitality our host country, the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the country which has always been an inspiration to the Non-Aligned Movement.
6.2 Mr President, it is opportune and fitting that, as Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of Jamaica, I should record the appreciation of the Government of Jamaica and, I feel sure, of my colleagues in Latin America and the Caribbean, for the initiative which Unesco took in organizing the very valuable Conference of Ministers of Education and Those Responsible for Economic Planning in Latin America and the Caribbean which was held in Mexico City in December 1979. With due regard for the cultural differences within our region, the Conference under- lined the common problems which we all face and the unity of the objectives to- wards which we are striving. The exchange of views, the sharing of experience and the study of innovations and new techniques provided inspiration to us all and enabled us to set meaninaful targets for the coming decade. We are glad to note that the work started at this Conference will be pursued in a regional advisory meeting of experts scheduled for 1981. This meeting will examine the mode of operation and the objectives of the projected network, in the light of the priorities common to the Member States of the region, among which will doubt- less figure science and technology education, so crucial to us all.
6.3 I should also like to express to the Director-General and to the staff of Unesco our appreciation of the increased role which the Organization has been playing in the Caribbean. The appointment of a Unesco representative for the Caribbean since the last session of the General Conference has immensely strengthened links between Unesco and our region and ministerial meetings with the Director-General have brought tangible benefits to the countries in our area. Meetings of cultural experts, seminars and missions on educational and scientific projects have been fruitful. Co-operative action in the field of communication and information has already shown results and Unesco's assistance has been ready and generous, within the fields of its competence, when natural disasters have afflicted our region. Jamaica welcomes the plans to decentralize the operations of Unesco further and looks forward to participating in elaborating the method of implementation in the Latin America and Caribbean region.
6.4 My country welcomes the emphasis which Unesco is placing on the new inter- national economic order. We welcome this emphasis because the new international economic order is essential to the success, in the developing countries, of edu- cational, scientific and cultural development which it is the mandate of Unesco toifoster.
6.5 The Conference must realize that we are meeting at a time of crisis. In many Third World countries today the problem is not how we can extend education, science and cultural further, but how we can maintain existing services in the face of the accelerating economic crisis which is beginning to have crippling effects upon these services. The situation facing us is grim - and the outlook for the coming decade is gloomy. This state of affairs is very succinctly des- cribed by the Director-General in the concluding remarks of his excellent Intro- duction to document 21 C/5 and it is also confirmed in the Brandt Report. The world community is slowly coming to recognize as -unacceptable such phenomena as poverty and disease, the violation of human rights and arms proliferation, under- utilized industrial capacity in the North and the dire need for goods and services        in the South. We must continue to concentrate on eradicating the root cause of such phenomena, while developing a foundation on which to build the twenty-first century free of the scourges of the present day.
6.6 A basic pre-condition for the better and more satisfying life we desire is enabling our citizens to enter into the world's storehouse of knowledge. Yet the world illiteracy problem in the last quarter of the twentieth century remains intractable. The situation could be summed up in two simple observations: as a result of colossal efforts, many countries have succeeded in substantially re- ducing the percentage of illiterates in their populations and meanwhile the abso- lute number of illiterates is constantly rising because of soaring population growth and our failure to prevent illiteracy from developing before students become adults. .7 It has been estimated that, if present trends are not corrected, the number of illitexrates. may rise fnom.814 million in -1980 :t0-884 million in 1990 and that mankind may enter the twenty-first century with at least 954 million illiterate adults. But we need not look as far as the end of the century. The stark reality isi that today, .in 1980, statistics indicate that 130: million childrensare not attending school. We talk of human rights, we talk of the importance of democ- racy, yet we tolerate economic systems which leave 130 million of our children without the basic human right of education and we ignore 130 million of our chil- dren who are growing up without preparation for their role as democratic citizens. And we tolerate this neglect, while we spend more than US $400 thousand million every year for military purposes.
6.8 Mr President, I could quote many other statistics, and many others have been quoted, to emphasize the fact that this Conference is meeting at a time of world crisis for education, science and culture - a crisis which makes the creation of a new international economic order compulsory. But let us turn to the programme and budget before us and see what measures Unesco proposes to take, within the fields of its competence, in order to promote the establishment of an international economic order.
6.9 Most significant in this respect is Unesco's work on communication. On this issue Unesco has made valiant attempts to tackle one of the major problems facing modern civilization. The media have developed rapidly in the last century and their power over the human mind, for good or evil, has become immense. Unesco's Constitution states that it is in the minds of men that wars begin, which means that it is from the minds of men that war must be eliminated. Unesco, therefore, has an inescapable responsibility to assist in ensuring that the media in all countries present an adequate and balanced flow of information to the world. This will be the subject of major and detailed discussion in one of our Commissions, so it is sufficient at this stage to reaffirm two principles: firstly, there is an urgent need to strengthen and improve the infrastructure for news gathecing and news presentation, particularly in the Third World; and, secondly, it is impera- tive that a code of ethics be developed and accepted by news media everywhere. Such a code of ethics would be one of the corner-stones of the new information order which seeks to present the most objective, well-balanced and truthful picture of the world and of the issues facing mankind. There must be a determined effort to ensure that news is not distorted either by chauvinism, narrow economic interests or selfish political manoeuvres. To that high purpose my country and my government are firmly committed.
6.10 But, closely connected with communications, Mr President, indeed inseparable from it, is information itself. We are living, as has frequently been said, in the age of the "information explosion". Laboratories and research centres are producing, at a rate unprecedented in history, a vast mass of information useful to mankind, much of which is stored in libraries or recorded in the data banks of the world. It is essential to the development and creation of a new international economic order that this valuable information should be made available to the developing countries. Unesco's efforts in the field of library and information services and informatics, as well as in the areas of training and assistance in creating mechanisms for mutual exchange, have resulted in programmes from which the whole world can gain.
6.11 Equally relevant, and most praiseworthy, is the increased attention paid in the draft programme to the development of science and technology in keeping with the proposals of the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development. The future of the Third World depends upon the advancement of science and technology in the developing countries and especially in the foster- ing of endogenous technologies. It is, therefore, important that, in keeping with the resolutions adopted by the General Conference at its last session, the allocation of funds for science and technology has shown an increase of 36.7 per cent, which means that more than half of the budgetary increase for programme    operations and services will go to science and technology. Apart from this budgetary increase, there are expectations of extra-budgetary funds of some US $43 million over the three-year period.
6.12 While the amount of these extra-budgetary funds falls far short of the amount we had hoped for following the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development, it has made it possible to plan the eight major scientific and technological projects described in the programme presented in Chapter 2; paradraphs 2123-2466 at arcostoOEslighEly ver US $155 million. These major projects are, of course, supplementary to the expanding work of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, the International Hydrological Pro- gramme and the Man and the Biosphere programme as well as the activities of Unesco's own Science Sector. We whole-heartedly support these programmes.
6.13 In addition, my government particularly welcomes the initiatives to estab- lish in the English-speaking Caribbean a major project in science and technology which will have a significant impact on strengthening activities in this area and on improving the quality of life in our region.
6.14 While fully conscious of the advances we are making in our science and technology programmes, Mr President, I am bound to call attention to the fact that we are falling far short of needs and this is a matter to which even more serious and critical attention must be devoted when we come to prepare the Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989.
6.15 We also warmly welcome the constant attention which Unesco is paying to education for development, including work-study and education for employment. We are giving careful attention to this programme in our country and I am glad to pay a tribute to the Director-General for the assistance which Unesco is giving to help Jamaica find loan funds for our far-reaching pilot project in production education at the secondary level. But one of our major problems in the develop- ing countries is to design and provide the type of education which will enable the large and growing youth population to become productively occupied for their own good and fully occupied for the economic and social good of their communities. Every step we take in this direction brings us nearer to the establishment of a new international economic order.
6.16 There are two other areas within the competence of Unesco in which it can contribute directly to the establishment of a new world order. These are the struggle against racial prejudice, apartheid and neo-colonialism, on the one hand, and the creation of a climate conducive to the halting of the arms race and to the transition to disarmament, on the other. Recognition of the blatant crime of apartheid has become worldwide, but what is needed is a more incisive analysis of the emergence of neo-colonialism and we need to take a closer look at whether the major world powers, no longer able to exercise colonial domination, are resorting to supporting reactionary governments or reactionary movements for the sole purpose of using these governments or movements to "safeguard" as they put it “their vital spheres of interest". A critical, objective analysis of this historical trend falls well within the scope and competence of Unesco, since it is within the minds of men that wars have their origins.
6.17 Mr President, we have looked briefly at Unesco's work in relation to the creation of a new international economic order by mentioning the work being under- taken in communication, information, science and technology, education for devel- opment and the crusade against all forms of colonialism and neo-colonialism, as well as the struggle to create a climate conducive to halting the arms race and to the transition to disarmament. But we must confess that, in spite of all the efforts made since the last session of the General Conference and with due con- sideration to the plans included in document 21 C/5, we are still far from achiev- Ing eurdgoal:
6.18 Far from causing us to despair, however, this must make us more determined to increase our efforts and strengthen our Organization. And here I would make two positive proposals. Firstly, we must arrive at a clear understanding of our role and of how the specific programmes which Unesco will undertake will be co- ordinated with programmes carried out by other United Nations agencies. Secondly, we must continue to strengthen the innovatory approach so admirably adopted by the Director-General and concentrate our efforts on essential problem-solving and action-oriented activities.
6.19 Mr President, I think the time has come for Unesco to lead the way in under- taking a full in-depth critical analysis of the economic theory and practice which should be the central feature of the new international economic order and of the other components of this new world order. I expect that, when we start consider" ing the second Medium-Term Plan, it will prove desirable, in full co-operation with other United Nations bodies, to arrange for such an in-depth study to be carried out. Unesco, which has undertaken various scholarly studies in the past,           would be the logical body to prepare such a series and the analysis it provided would give direction and coherence to our efforts.
6.20 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion I wish to share with you a quotation from a lecture which was delivered to the Third World Foundation by our Prime Minister, the Honourable Michael Manley. The Prime Minister of Jamaica stated that "... In the last analysis, the challenge is threefold: to the Third World, it consists of collective self-reliance and internal social justice; to the developed world, it is the substantial transfer of resources that sets us all in motion; to the whole world, it is the new structures that will keep us in motion because we will all share in the fruits of our labours. Material abundance is not the sole purpose of human existence. But poverty defeats all other possi- bilities. Hence, poverty is both the ultimate affront to conscience and a certain guarantee of instability. Surely, the supreme challenge of our times is to work together to eliminate it from human experience ...".
6.21 Mr President, I am convinced that this is the challenge which Unesco and all of us gathered here today are called upon to meet. It must indeed be the central theme of the Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989 which is one of our prime responsi- bilities to prepare. I am confident that the Conference will harness all its powers and work together in a spirit of goodwill to improve the gquality=cf life of all mankind. Thank you, Mr President. TE poll Saa debdl ED Getjg ZN yy Eta] ‎ةملكلا hel y ‎«اكياماجدفو puns, ‎ركشأ .دئاليزاوسدقوسيئر+ىنيمإلد
(7) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic): I thank the Head of the delegation of Jamaica and I now give the floor to the Honourable Senator Canon S.P.D. Dlamini, Minister of Education, Chairman of the National Commission for Unesco and Head of the delegation of Swaziland.
8.1 Canon DLAMINI (Swaziland): Mr President, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the delegation of the Kingdom of Swaziland, I should like to offer through you, Mr President, our heartiest congratulations to Mr Ivo Margan on his election to the presidency of the General Conference. May his leadership secure from this Conference the outcome which man both deserves and desires.
8.2 I wish to convey to the Presidency of Yugoslavia the deepest sympathy of His Majesty's Government in the loss that this country and the entire world have suffered with the death of your beloved President Josip Broz Tito. May You tina consolation in the fact that his good work remains a shining example to the whole world. It is our hope that his spirit will continue to inspire the ideals of peace and stability throughout the world.
8.3 To the Director-General of Unesco, I wish to convey our government's con- gratulations on his unanimous re-election, which is indeed a tribute to the manner in which he has performed his duties during the past six years. May his new term of office be a resounding success, too.
8.4 I am pleased to welcome the delegations of the new Member States which have joined Unesco since the last session of the General Conference.
8.5 I should also like to pay tribute to the Director-General and the Secretariat, whose administrative and professional thoroughness has provided an excellent foun- dation for the operational activities of the Organization. In particular, 1 cons sider the innovative measures introduced in the presentation of the draft pro- gramme and budget for the forthcoming triennium to be invaluable.
8.6 May I also extend the gratitude and congratulations of His Majesty's Govern- ment, the people and the delegation of the Kingdom of Swaziland to the Government and the people of Yugoslavia for the warm welcome to this beautiful city of Belgrade and indeed for the excellent arrangements which have been made to render our stay comfortable and our work efficient.
8.7 Mr President, because of the extraordinary session of our Parliament, I was unable to participate in the early stages of the general policy debate. Neverthe- less my attention has been drawn to the outstanding interventions by preceding speakers pertaining to the promotion of Unesco's activities; and I am certainly not the last to pay tribute to the lofty ideas and practical proposals expressed by the distinguished heads of delegations of Member States.
8.8 Mr President, it is indeed heartening to note that since the foundation of Unesco in 1946, the number of its Member States has increased from the original
20 to today's 152, and that its various activities and programmes have developed and expanded steadily from year to year, guided by the principles of international intellectual co-operation, assistance and co-operation for development and action to strengthen moral solidarity, with emphasis on the promotion of international understanding.
8.9 The Director-General and his staff are to be congratulated on producing, in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1982, a very succinct overview of the contemporary world problems, in a manner that reconciles the proposed activities with the basic objectives of Unesco. Continuity, innovation, concentration and decentralization are indeed the chief characteristics of the activities proposed in the field of education for the forthcoming triennium. It is also noteworthy that the objectives and programmes set out in document 21 C/5 clearly reflect the extensive and thorough consultations conducted with Member States and other organs of the United Nations.
8.10 My delegation is satisfied that the Director-General and his staff have ably and exhaustively considered every major area of human activity which falls within the competence of Unesco and which calls for immediate attention and future action.
8.11 We are aware of the vital role played by science and technology in con- temporary society and of their decisive importance for the economic, social and cultural development of each society and nation in the context of a new inter- national economic order. Hence the relevance of new elements as expressed in objectives 4.4, 5.1, 5.7 and 6.6 concerning the stepping up of science and/ tech- nology education and technical and vocational education. My country would appre- ciate any support in the development of these activities in Swaziland. Education for the complete development of the child, as part of objective 5.3, advocates what we consider to be a welcome, progressive integration of parent education, the early diagnosis of handicaps, and pre-school, basic and primary education. Furthermore, the planned strengthening of certain orientations such as the link between education and work, the connection between formal and non-formal edu- cation and the continued fight against illiteracy are worthy of support.
8.12 My delegation is also satisfied that under the able and committed leadership of Mr M'Bow, this Organization will continue to find honesty, frankness, courage, conviction and positive action in support of our objectives. We need only recall his official missions to New Zealand, Copenhagen, Moscow and Yaoundé to realize that Mr M'Bow has amply demonstrated to us that, although a son of Africa, he truly remains a servant of the world. We shall therefore stand solidly with him in any measures aimed at maintaining the international character of Unesco.
8.13 Mr President, my delegation wishes to assure Unesco of our continued support in the fulfilment of its mission. Let me conclude my remarks by stressing that we should all reaffirm the noble ideals which led to the establishment of the Organization. Thank you. :سيكرلا SETىنوطناىنيكديسلاةيبرتلاريزوةداعسلةملكلاىطعأوءدنآليزاوسدقو‏€le Ady ped)‏ ءايسول
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic): I thank the Head of the delegation of Swaziland and I now give the floor to Mr Kenny Anthony, Minister of Education and Head of the delegation of Saint Lucia.
10.1. Mr ANTHONY (Saint Lucia): Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, on behalf of the delegation of Saint Luca, I am happy to associate myself with the expressions of congratulation extended to Mr Ivo Margan on his election as President of this twenty-first session of the General Conference. I am confident that his wsdom and skiil will help to ensure the successful attainment of the objectives of the Conference. I am equally confident that Unesco's efforts to create conditions conducive to the balanced and harmon- ious development of all countries and peoples will be further strengthened under the continued leadership of our Director-General.
10.2 My delegation is delighted that our Conference is being held in this beauti- ful and hospitable city of Belgrade and would like to pay respectful tribute to the memory of Josip Broz Tito - a truly great man who will always be remembered with respect and affection for his courage, his regard for the integrity and independence of all nations, and in particular for his outstanding contribution to the birth and development of the Non-Aligned Movement. It is our belief that         his courage and his spirit will continue to inspire commitment to the ideals he held dear. My delegation wishes to take this opportunity of conveying to his successor, His Excellency Mr Cvijetin Mijatovi&, President of the Presidency of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and to the people of the Republic, the good wishes of the Government and people of Saint Lucia.
10.3 Permit me, Mr President, to thank the Director-General and the heads of delegations for their remarks of welcome to Saint Lucia, which has joined the Organization since the last session of the General Conference, and which is par- ticipating for the first time in its deliberations. I wish to assure the Director-General and Member States that my country, small though it is, will collaborate fully with Unesco in defending and promoting its objectives.
10.4 Mr President, in a rather special way, the fragile nature of our small, island economy makes us particularly susceptible to the effects of the problems facing the world. These problems and their debilitating consequences have been articulated by speaker after speaker from countries of the Third World. The distinguished leader of the Barbados delegation, in his statement to the Confer- ence, stressed that the developing countries are easy victims of global recession, inflation and the rising cost of energy. This fact, Mr President, cannot be too strongly emphasized.
10.5 But not only are we susceptible to the effects of global economic and political problems, we are equally vulnerable to natural disasters. Mr President, my country, Saint Lucia, was hit on 3 August 1980 by a hurricane which left a trail of destruction. This, it was agreed, was the worst natural disaster to affect the island in living memory. Estimates show that total losses sustained in the most important sector of the economy, agriculture, will amount to $186.3 million over the next three years. This is a direct consequence of the complete destruction of the banana industry, from which over 12,000 farmers derive their Iivelihood.” As a result, our economy ig in a state of near paralysis.
10.6 The analysis further reveals that over 60 per cent of the total losses sus- tained are of locally consumed food crops. This is of tremendous significance, since it reflects the impact of the hurricane on domestically produced food supplies, the potential adverse effect on the nutritional condition of the popu- lation, a possible reduction in the earning capacity of the producers of these commodities and the magnitude of the food deficit that may have to be made good.
10.7 In the case of education, Mr President, 42 per cent of our 91 schools have been classified as completely destroyed or as having sustained major damage. Some assistance has been offered by two friendly governments and a private local organization to help restore structures damaged or destroyed. There still remains, however, the daunting task for my government of providing the furniture, equipment, teaching supplies and aids which make schooling possible.
10.8 Without the co-operation, solidarity and commitment of the international community, we shall be severely restricted in our capacity to improve the quality of life of our people in these circumstances. The Director-General, in his address at the opening of the Conference, stressed the fact that it was Unesco's duty to prick the moral conscience of the world so that by common consent the international community would make the necessary changes and adjustments that would give every people an opportunity for full development.
10.9 Disasters such as hurricanes, or the earthquake which twice destroyed the city of Skopje, are by their very nature unpredictable and cannot be budgeted for in advance, either nationally or internationally. But at the same time, the response to them must be immediate if rehabilitation is to be effective. Under these circumstances, Mr President, it is imperative that Member States support the proposed establishment of a permanent Unesco fund to provide assistance - particu- larly in the area of educational and cultural rehabilitation - in the event of natural disasters.
10-10 My President’ theParsaster in Saint Lucia, to "wiieh"I"have"Sust"referred, occurred at a time when our new development programmes and new initiatives were taking on additional meaning and significance. It is clear that the problems of small developing Caribbean island states such as Saint Lucia call for individual attention on the part of Unesco. During the past six years, four new members from the Latin America and Caribbean region have joined Unesco. By 1983 these are likely to be joined by another four Caribbean countries. All of them, it must be stressed, have only recently emerged from the nightmare of colonialism. They do not possess the manpower, the expertise or the administrative machinery which are so vital for maximizing assistance from Unesco and the international community. This suggests that Unesco must be alive and sensitive to the    peculiarities of the region, otherwise there is a real danger that the Organ- ization may unwittingly aggravate existing imbalances between its own Member States. While the entire Latin America and Caribbean region suffers from certain common problems, the scale and intensity of these problems differ from subregion to subregion. It is for this reason, and because of the new political reality emerging in the region, that our delegation wishes to reiterate the urgent need to strengthen and upgrade the office of Unesco's representative to the Caribbean.
10.11 In this connection, we are particularly disturbed to learn that funds originally earmarked for Caribbean regional projects by UNDP have been arbitrarily withdrawn. Such a sudden and unexpected termination of these priority regional projects cannot but lead to frustration and disillusionment. Moreover, this situ- ation has occurred at a time when the establishment of the Unesco office in the Caribbean gave a ray of hope that the needs of the subregion would receive better attention. I am confident, Mr President, that the Director-General, who is alive to our problems, will do all he can to improve the state of affairs caused by the withdrawal of the UNDP funds, perhaps by attracting other sources of financing.
10.12 Mr President, I now turn to document 21 C/5. My delegation notes that the document closely relates to the objectives of the current Medium-Term Plan. We are particularly pleased with the shift in emphasis and the new features that have been introduced in the draft programme and budget and therefore give our broad support to the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983. The emphasis on science and technology and the major activities proposed in this field form a good basis for helping developing countries like Saint Lucia, to build up their own scientific capability. My delegation wishes to emphasize in this connection the need for Unesco to intensify its efforts to create scientific literacy in the developing countries. At the same time, the Organization must ensure that the major activities proposed take account of cultural traditions as well as the aspirations of each country, so that the transfer of technology may be both effective and beneficial.
10.13 It is also our view that the implications of the emphasis laid on science and technology for our primary, secondary and post-secondary institutions are serious. Attention will therefore have to be focused on the nature of the assist- ance that will enable our educational institutions to effect and assimilate the changes, particularly through the reorientation of the techniques of science education. The study being carried out in the Caribbean subregion will, no doubt, be invaluable and shed considerable light on the problems. It is our hope, Mr President, that the study will be followed up by a major project in science and technology.
10.14 My delegation is particularly pleased with the response in the draft pro- gramme and budget to the problem of illiteracy, since widespread illiteracy not only denies the individual a sense of self-worth, but also prevents a people from utilizing its full resources for development.
10.15 We note with particular interest the growing place of the media in society, both as a vehicle of information and culture and an important link in national development. In this respect, the links between culture and development, culture and the mass media and culture and general education call for particular attention to the training of the personnel required for cultural development, as well as the exchange of information on these matters.
10.16 Mr President, Unesco's action in laying the basis for the establishment of a new international information order constitutes a decisive step forward. In the view of our delegation, the issue must go beyond correcting the imbalance in the flow of information from the industrialized world to the Third World and vice versa. At the heart of the issue is the interpretative quality of what passes for media information. But over and above this, Mr President, it is our delegation's sincere hope that the international awareness that this issue has engendered will restrain certain sections of the media from causing political and economic destabilization, either in their search for sensationalism or as a result of deliberate policy.
10.17 Mr President, I am delighted to see that, in response to the initiative of the Executive Board, the Director-General has increased the resources allocated to the participation programme. This programme has been a powerful instrument of co-operation and deserves every support.
10.18 In conclusion, Mr President, may I say that despite the many global prob- lems which confront us, we look with faith to Unesco - faith in the fact that it has pursued steadfastly the ideals that gave it birth - faith in the emphasis it has placed on education as an effective channel and instrument for improving the quality of life of mankind. Our faith was even more reinforced by the fact that only a few days ago this Conference unanimously re-elected Mr Amadou-Mahtar M' Bow to a second term of office as Director-General of this Organization. This is          excellent testimony to the lively sensitivity he has exhibited to global problems as well as the innovative and courageous work of the Organization under his leader- ship. We congratulate him warmly on his re-election; we pledge our support in the noble task he has undertaken, and hope that he will be given the strength to carry the programmes through successfully. Thank you, Mr President. oA DA Jl) Sly Aa SEN NgELN SN gee ge egEget ‎ركشأ * ‎ىبيسنتربوىموتواسدفوسيئر Sl
(11 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic): I thank the Head of the delegation of Saint Lucia and I now give the floor to Mr Joachim Rafael Branco, Deputy Minister of Education and Culture and Head of the dele- gation of Sao Tome and Principe.
12.1 M. BRANCO (Sao Tomé-et-Principe).- Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, permettez-moi, de vous dire com- bien la délégation de la République démocratique de Sao Tomé-et-Principe est heu- reuse de se retrouver dans cette capitale si pleine de signification pour les pays non alignés, pour participer pour la premiére fois, comme membre de plein droit, aux travaux de l'Organisation des Nations Unies pour 1'éducation, la science et la culture.
12.2 C'est donc avec une grande satisfaction, Monsieur le Président que la délé- gation de la République démocratique de Sao Tomé-et-Principe tient à féliciter M. Ivo Margan pour sa brillante élection a la présidence de cette vingt et unième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco.
12.3 Une autre raison de notre grande satisfaction, Monsieur le Président, est le fait que notre première participation aux travaux de la Conférence générale coïn- cide avec la décision prise à l'unanimité par notre Organisation de confier, à nouveau les destins de l'Unesco à M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow.
12.4 Je n'ai pas eu le privilège de le rencontrer personnellement avant notre adhésion à l'Organisation, mais nous savons cependant combien il a contribué à faire de notre Organisation un instrument efficace et dynamique de connaissance, de rapprochement, d'amitié et de respect entre les peuples du monde.
12.5 Nous sommes donc convaincus que pendant les sept prochaines années, l'Unesco jouera un rôle encore plus concret, efficace et dynamique dans la recherche de solutions aux problèmes nombreux et complexes qui se dressent à l'horizon des peuples démunis en quête d'un avenir meilleur.
12.6 Monsieur le Président, en devenant membre de l'Organisation des Nations Unies pour l'éducation, la science et la culture, la République démocratique de Sao Tomé-et-Principe a manifesté sa conviction profonde, convaincue du rôle très important que notre Organisation est appelée à jouer dans un monde en mutation.
12.7 Au seuil de l'an 2000 c'est avec une préoccupation certaine que nous consta- tons que l'humanité est très loin d'avoir résolu d'une manière efficace les pro- blèmes vitaux et urgents auxquels elle est confrontée. Cette préoccupation est d'autant plus vive que l'on sait que la solution de ces problèmes est en fait à la mesure de nos possibilités.
12.8 Encore plus grave, Monsieur le Président, est le fait que la communauté internationale soit incapable de trouver une solution de remplacement conséquente à la situation actuelle. Et cependant, les éléments essentiels d'une telle solu- tion sont connus depuis déjà un certain temps. Il s'agit de permettre à chaque peuple, à chaque nation, d'exercer son droit à l'autodétermination et à l'indépen- dance ; il s'agit d'accepter que chaque Etat soit libre de choisir la voie de déve- loppement qu'il trouve la meilleure pour répondre aux aspirations et préserver l'identité culturelle de son peuple ; il s'agit d'éliminer des relations interna- tionales la menace ou l'utilisation de la force ; il s'agit de mettre fin à la course aux armements ; il s'agit de renoncer aux privilèges hérités de rapports de domination qui ont été imposés par la force, pendant plusieurs siècles aux peuples de l'Afrique, de l'Asie et de l'Amérique latine, et d'établir des rapports fondés sur l'égalité de droits, le respect mutuel, la coopération et la solidarité entre les nations et à l'intérieur de chaque nation ; il s'agit finalement de recon- naître que le bien-être et le progrès de l'humanité est illusoire sans le bien- être et le progrès de tous les hommes.
12.9 Nous reconnaissons que ce n'est pas une tâche facile. En témoignent presque Six années de dialogue Nord-Sud, six années d'impasses, d'attentes dégues, d'égoîsmes à peine voilés.
12.10 Pendant ce temps, en Afrique, en Asie et en Amérique latine, c'est-à-dire dans la plupart des pays représentés ici, l'homme mène une existence chaque jour plus insupportable, et tout se passe comme si la misère, la faim et l'ignorance s'accroissaient en proportion des moyens dont nous disposons pour agir.
12.11 Monsieur le Président, la République démocratique de Sao Tomé-et-Principe croit que l'Unesco peut apporter une contribution précieuse aux changements impé- ratifs que demande la société internationale.
12.12 L'Unesco oeuvre pour changer l'homme en lui conférant une meilleure connais- sance du monde et, ce faisant, elle prépare les hommes à changer le monde grâce à cette meilleure connaissance de ses réalités et une conscience accrue de la néces- sité de l'utiliser de manière humaniste.
12.13 Aujourd'hui l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre écoñonique international n'est plus seulement une aspiration des peuples du Tiers Monde. L' instauration d'un nou- vel ordre économique international est une nécessité impérieuse de notre temps ; c'est une condition de la paix et un facteur de paix.
12.14 A cet égard, les divers domaines d'activité de notre organisation, tels qu'ils sont reflétés dans le rapport préliminaire du Directeur général sur le pro- chain Plan à moyen terme témoigne de l'importance chaque jour accrue du rôle que notre Organisation joue dans la recherche de solutions aux problèmes auxquels sont confrontés nos pays.
12.15 Monsieur le Président, en rejoignant la grande famille de l'Unesco, la Ré- publique démocratique de Sao Tomé-et-Principe s'engage à contribuer dans la mesure de ses moyens et de ses possibilités à la réalisation des objectifs de notre Organisation.
12.16 Pays indépendant depuis cing années seulement, nous ne vous cacherons pas les immenses difficultés que notre gouvernement rencontre pour concrétiser le droit à l'éducation que notre constitution garantit à tous les citoyens. Pays do- miné pendant cinq siècles, nous avons hérité d'une situation semblable à celle de bien d'autres pays qui ont été dans le même cas : absence totale d'infrastructures de développement, système d'éducation élitiste et inadapté aux besoins du pays, pourcentage élevé d'analphabétisme, culture méprisée.
12.17 Cependant, et nous ne vous cacherons pas la fierté que nous en retirons, après l'indépendance, la situation a changé radicalement. Dans le domaine de l'éducation nous avons réussi à étendre notre réseau scolaire à l'ensemble du pays, permettant ainsi à des milliers d'enfants d'avoir pour la première fois de leur vie accès à l'enseignement. D'autre part, un plan de réforme de l'enseigne- ment qui tient compte des réalités nationales et de nos besoins est en cours.
12.18 L'éducation dans notre pays est congue comme une condition de développement économique et en méme temps comme un moyen de transformer l'homme. C'est ce qui explique l'intérêt que nous portons à l'éducation des adultes et à la campagne d'alphabétisation, mise en route depuis notre accession à l'indépendance.
12.19 Sur la voie de la préparation des hommes à la construction de la société nouvelle qui est notre objectif majeur, les difficultés, les carences et même les erreurs ne manquent pas. L'absence de moyens financiers, d'équipements et de cadres ayant reçu la formation souhaitable en est responsable. Presque tout reste à faire. Nous avons cependant la certitude de pouvoir compter sur la coopération et la solidarité des autres Etats et de l'Unesco en particulier pour nous aider dans notre tâche.
12.20 Nous ne saurions terminer, Monsieur le Président, sans remercier les auto- rités et les peuples yougoslaves pour leur accueil chaleureux et les moyens mis à notre disposition et sans souhaiter à la Conférence le plein succès de ses tra- vaux. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. :I Y GELepleMN ‎ريزوللوألابكانلاةداعسلةملكلاىطعأو,ىبيسنربونىموتواسكفوسيئر „sal . ‎ةيتييفوسلاةيكارتشالاايسورولببةيروبمجدفوسيئرىكستوباك ssl
(173) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic): I thank the Head of the delegation of Sao Tome and Principe and I now give the floor to Mr Kaputski, First Vice-Minister for Higher Education and Head of the delegation of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic.
(14.1) Mr KAPUTSKI (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic) (Translation from the Russian): Mr President, the delegation of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic associates itself with the many previous speakers who have congratulated Dr Ivo Margan on his election as President of the twenty-first session of the General Conference of Unesco, and in turn wishes him success in this honourable and important function. We thank the Yugoslav people and its Government for their hospitality and the excellent facilities they have provided for the Conference.
(14.2) Soviet Byelorussia well remembers those harsh years of the Second World War when the freedom or enslavement of nations was in the balance and when the partisan fighters of Yugoslavia and its National Liberation Army, led by the Communists and their commander, that outstanding son of the Yugoslav people, Josip Broz Tito, were hammering the enemy. In this we see a common factor in the destinies of our peoples. But our peoples are united not only by the memory of our joint struggle against Fascism, but also by the desire for the triumph of the ideals of peace, freedom, happiness, equality and brotherhood among all peoples. We take fraternal joy in the achievements of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in developing its economy, education, science and culture.
(14.3) Mr President, permit me likewise to extend sincere congratulations to Mr Amadou- Mahtar M'Bow on his unanimous re-election as Director-General, and to wish him every success in tackling the problems confronting Unesco.
(14.4) Mr President, distinguished delegates, this session of the General Conference has to prepare guidelines for Unesco's work in the years which lead us towards the end of the twentieth century. This century has marked the history of mankind with events of great magnitude and importance. Its distinguishing feature is the explosive acceleration of progress in material production, in social relationships, in culture and the life of the mind. But the concept of progress today includes more than the things which increase the productive power of mankind, improve the social conditions in which man lives, or enrich his cultural world. That concept now includes above all the fight for the survival of mankind against the threat of a world war which could consume and annihilate all the achievements of human civilization and all the treasures of culture and bring the history of human life to a close.
(14.5) We live at a time when the international situation is still fraught with compli- cations. The poison of militarism has of late spread far and wide and is leaving less and less room for sane and sober appraisals of the worid situation, or for a considered approach to key international problems.
(14.6) The delegation of the Byelorussian SSR shares the concern which the delegations of the Arab and many other states have already voiced from this platform over the expansion of Israel in the Middle East and its flouting of the freedoms and lawful rights of the Arab people of Palestine. The smouldering tension in that region is unremitting. The anti- Arab deal struck at Camp David, ignoring the just demands of the Arab peoples and the in- alienable rights of the Arab people of Palestine, is aimed at sating Israel's appetites for annexation and at asserting the military presence of imperialism in the Middle East. Inspired by imperialist interests, this so-called settlement has incited Israel to seize the Arab part of Jerusalem and to mount attacks against the neighbouring Arab peoples.
(14.7) The Byelorussian delegation takes the view that Unesco should extend its role in combating colonialism, racism, apartheid and the ideologies of hegemonism and militarism. Everything possible must be done to hasten the final victory over colonialism, racialism and apartheid. We welcome the birth of the Republic of Zimbabwe and express our conviction that the day will soon dawn when the people of Namibia, too, will win its freedom and independence.
(14.8) In view of the present international situation, the drive for peace and against the arms race is not only a condition, prerequisite and component of progress but is also the highest requirement of humanism, and one which in contemporary circumstances should lead to specific and practical action rather than abstract theorizing about the principles of good.
(14.9) By virtue of its Constitution, the struggle for peace and the promotion of dis- armament are among the most important intellectual and ethical missions of Unesco. As we know, the arms race devours enormous resources which might be used to eliminate poverty, ignorance and other ills of society. The arms race not only means "guns before butter", but even guns before books and schools for children, or comprehensive medical care. 1+7 therefore, our opinion that the General Conference of Unesco should approve the measures proposed in the draft resolutions submitted by the Soviet Union and a number of other countries concerning Unesco's role in generating a climate of public opinion conducive to the halting of the arms race and the transition to disarmament, the preservation and devel- opment of détente - a most important condition of Unesco's activities, and Unesco's con- tribution towards solving the global problems of mankind.
(14.10) Mr President, the Byelorussian people suffered enormous losses in people and re- sources during the Second World War - one life in every four was lost, and the Fascist occupiers destroyed almost all the towns and the majority of villages - and is well aware of what disasters and destruction war may bring. That is why, together with men of good will throughout the world, the working people of Byelorussia angrily condemn criminal attempts to undermine détente and to thrust the world into the abyss of a nuclear holo- caust. Our people is engaged in peaceful and constructive labour, and wishes to live in peace and friendship with all others.
(14.11) The Great October Socialist Revolution, which ushered in the epoch of revolutionary world renewal, marked a watershed in the history of the Byelorussian people too. Both to us and to the other peoples of our country, it brought freedom from exploitation and led the way towards the construction of a new life. The steady progress of the economy and cultural life and the systematic raising of material and cultural living standards are inalienable characteristics of our development. Secondary education has been generalized, and higher education has been extensively developed. Today, one in eleven of those active in the Byelorussian national economy has received higher education - and yet before 1917, around
80 per cent of the population were illiterate.
(14.12) Our higher educational establishments not only supply specialists for all spheres of the economy, science and culture in our own republic, but also help other countries,         above all the developing countries, to train their own specialists. At present, people from 81 countries are studying in Byelorussia.
(14.13) The material and technical base of science is growing constantly in size and strength, and steps are being taken to improve the initial and refresher training of scientists and science teachers. The acceleration of scientific and technological progress is contributing to the vigorous development of the republic's economy, is enhancing its efficiency, and is an important factor in the growth of productivity.
(14.14) Since the end of the war, Byelorussia's economic potential has doubled every seven years. The welfare of every section and group in the nation has improved. In conditions of mature socialism, socialist democracy grows ever wider and deeper, and in this, the New Constitution of the Byelorussian SSR, which embodies and develops Lenin's ideas of genuine authority of the people, has its part to play. In February 1980, elections were held to the Supreme Soviet of the Byelorussian SSR and to all local Soviets of People's Deputies. Of the deputies to those governing bodies, 40 per cent are workers, over 28 per cent are collective farmers and 49 per cent are women. The exercise of the very extensive civil rights and liberties, guaranteed by the way in which our Soviet state is ordered and enshrined in the country's Constitution, enables every citizen to take an active part in all matters of state and to develop all aspects of his personality.
(14.15) Our achievements in the fields of economics, education, science and culture testify to cur increased capacity to make a constructive contribution to the work of Unesco.
(14.16) Mr President, the universal problems of mankind increasingly clamour for attention. Soviet people advocate a more conservationist and caring attitude to nature on the part of mankind, and urge that the riches of nature be used scientifically in the interests ofall peoples. Further graphic proof of this is the action which the Soviet Union has taken in the United Nations to remind states of their duty to preserve nature as the sine qua non of the survival of present and future generations. Our delegation hopes that Unesco will make its own contribution to the development of international co-operation in this extremely important field.
(14.17) Byelorussia attaches great importance to Unesco's activities in the Europe region. The people's victory in the war against Fascism, together with post-war developments, has resulted in the recognition by all states of the territorial and political realities in Europe, in the affirmation of the inviolability of the borders between European states and in progress in the consolidation of stability and the development of peaceful international relations on the continent of Europe.
(14.18) All this has created favourable conditions for Unesco's activities in the European countries. The Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe was a defeat for the devotees of the Cold War and for European and world reaction, and a major success for the policy of realism and goodwill on the part of all its participants. As we know, Unesco did much to gain acceptance for the idea that it was necessary to convene and hold the Helsinki Conference, and it has great opportunities for putting into practice those pro- visions of the Final Act which fall within its purview. In this context, we attach great importance to the draft resolution submitted by the delegation of the Hungarian People's Republic and contained in document 21 C/DR.125.
(14.19) Our delegation further hopes that the forthcoming meeting in Madrid of representa- tives of the states that took part in the All-European Conference will inaugurate a new phase in co-operation both between countries and within Unesco's framework.
(14.20) Like several others, our delegation attaches great importance to the implementation of the Declaration on Fundamental Principles concerning the Contribution of the Mass Media to Strengthening Peace and International Understanding, to the Promotion of Human Rights and to Countering Racialism, Apartheid and Incitement to War, adopted by the General Con- ference of Unesco at its twentieth session. The basic provisions of that Declaration express the spirit of détente and international co-operation, and may be viewed as the first fruit of the struggle to establish a new international order in the field of communi- cation. As you know, the concept of the "new international communication order" stems from the campaign for national sovereignty in the fields of information and culture and from the struggle against colonialism and its aftermath and against imperialist dominion in the intellectual life of the peoples of the developing countries.
(14.21) Beylorussia supports the developing countries' desire to develop and expand their own mass communication media as an instrument of their socio-economic and cultural develop- ment. In our view, Unesco's communication programme for 1981-1983 should be based on the principles which the Organization has already enunciated.
(14.22) We find the draft programmes for education and the natural sciences acceptable. We note with satisfaction that the draft programme for 1981-1983 gives further development to such global and concentrated programmes as "Man and the Biosphere", the International Hydrological Programme, the International Geological Correlation Programme, the Oceanic research programme and other important projects. We would remark that the period when these programmes developed fruitfully was in the seventies, when détente was growing in extent and strength. This is weighty confirmation of the fact that the preservation and development of détente are key requisites for Unesco's work.
(14.23) As regards Unesco's draft programme for 1981-1983 in the field of social sciences, our delegation feels that. the drafting. of that chapter is, toiputiit mildly, unfortunate. By and large, the structural changes in Chapter 3, which contains the social science proj- ects, are simply changes in form. They do not comply with the terms of the major resol- utions adopted by the General Conference at its twentieth session, and make no fundamental improvements in the substance of the programme. Moreover, in several cases - more    specifically where problems of human rights and peace are concerned - they even represent a step backwards in comparison with document 20 C/5. We cannot accept that in Chapter 3 of Unesco's Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983, consisting of seven sections, prob- lems relating to the strengthening of peace and human rights are relegated to fifth place, in other words, are made to appear secondary. In the view of our delegation, that is unacceptable.
(14.24) This chapter must be redrafted to take fuller account of the guidelines of the Medium-Term Plan and the general policy resolutions adopted by the General Conference at its twentieth session. Here it is imperative to bear in mind the provisions of the draft resolution which I have already mentioned, concerning Unesco's contribution towards solving the global problems of mankind. We feel that programme activities in the social sciences should relate directly to the problems of peace, the elimination of the consequences of colonialism, and the combating of racialism and apartheid, or massive and crude violations of human rights. This is the proper place for Unesco's high intellectual and ethical mission in the struggle for a peace worthy of mankind.
(14.25) Like several of its predecessors in this debate, the Byelorussian delegation draws attention to the disproportionately rapid growth of our Organization's budget and feels that action should be taken to bring about its gradual stabilization. It is vital to increase the efficiency of the staff and to solve the problem of the equitable geo- graphical distribution of Secretariat posts.
(14.26) We maintain that the universality of Unesco should be reflected in Secretariat posts that are subject to geographical distribution. Joint efforts must be made to give each Member State the ‘number of posts which corresponds to its average quota.
(14.27) Such are the basic considerations and remarks we feel it appropriate to express in this general policy debate. And may the delegation of the Byelorussian SSR express the hope that the results of the twenty-first session of the General Conference of Unesco will serve to promote peace and the development of international co-operation in the fields of education, science and culture for the benefit of all mankind. osn ‎ةيبرتلاةرازولمئادلاليكوللةملكلاىطعاوء؛ةتييفوسلاةيكارتشالاايسوروليبةيروهمجدفوسيئرركشأ Ul gege Ig ga ‎ءىبيسنومىدوسامارنابلا ©BS Sl
(15) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic): I thank the Head of the delegation of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic and I now give the floor to Mr Cuthbert Alban .Ramasodi Motsepe, Deputy Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Head of the delegation of Botswana.
16.1 Mr MOTSEPE (Botswana): Mr President, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentle- men, may I first, through you, Mr President, express to Mr Ivo Margan, on behalf of my government, my delegation, and myself, our warmest congratulations on his appointment as President of the General Conference. May I also express our good wishes to the Director-General as he enters his second term of office. We under- stand that there is a possibility that Mr M'Bow may soon visit southern Africa. It is our hope that he will include Botswana on his itinerary, where we can assure him of a warm and sincere welcome.
16.2 This is the first General Conference session to be attended by Botswana as a full member, for it was only in April of this year that we joined the Organiz- ation. This is not to say that Unesco is new to Botswana. As an Associate Member for many years, we have enjoyed some benefits from the Organization and at present have two Unesco experts, whose services are greatly appreciated, working in the country. However, we have now taken the important step of becoming a full member of the Organization. It is my pleasant task to thank Member States for having accepted our application. We feel reassured by the kind words of welcome extended to us at this Conference and we note that our neighbour to the north, Zimbabwe, is also attending this session for the first time, having been newly admitted to the Organization. We rejoice that Zimbabwe has achieved, though sadly through bitter struggle, its rightful place in the international community. The independence of Zimbabwe has come as a fresh breeze in a region suffocating from the fumes of racism, apartheid and the violation of human rights.
16.3 In seeking full membership of the Organization, my government recognized that additional assistance would also mean additional responsibilities and we wish to state that it is Botswana's intention to shoulder its responsibilities fully. In particular, we hope that, with our neighbours in what is termed the southern Africa region, our part of Africa will play a lively, constructive and dynamic part in furthering the aims and programmes of Unesco. As a beginning, we very much appreciate the honour you have done us by electing Botswana to a Vice-Presidency of the General Conference.
16.4 Our host country, which is providing such a delightful venue for the Con- ference, has suffered a severe blow in the passing of its President, Marshal Josip Broz Tito; that was a blow not only to Yugoslavia but to the whole world and to all who respect freedom, human dignity and the right of nations to chart their own destinies without interference from others. Marshal Tito will forever be held in deepest respect for his work over so many decades. Our own country has also suffered a severe blow in the passing in July of our President, Sir Seretse Khama, a blow felt not only in Botswana but also throughout Africa and the whole freedom- loving international community. Like Marshal Tito, Sir Seretse Khama stood for those high ideals for which Unesco also stands. He too was a resolute fighter for the rights of the individual; he too gained strength from his belief in the wisdom of mankind (his was a profoundly humanistic approach) and in the need to foster in each and everyone a spirit of self-reliance, enabling all to make their rightful contribution to the well-being of society.
16.5 There is no need for me to remind this distinguished gathering of the turbulent course of recent history in southern Africa. Our joy over the inde- pendence of Zimbabwe must strengthen our determination to stand by our brothers and sisters who are still living under regimes which deny them their basic rights. It was in this difficult arena that Sir Seretse Khama showed himself to be a statesman, whose leadership went far beyond the borders of his own country. For, in spite of the hazards confronting him, he never compromised on what was right and just; and, whatever the difficulties, he was always ready to help those in greatest need. Perhaps here you will allow me to mention that my country, though large in area, being about the size of France, has a population of less than one million. Its long frontiers, all of which were highly sensitive for years and its widely scattered population posed particular problems. Nevertheless, under the guidance of Sir Seretse Khama, Botswana showed its great humanity in using its meagre resources to make provision for thousands of refugees who, had succour been withheld, would have been in a desperate position.
16.6 Mr President, I now wish to make a few comments on some aspects of the proposed programme of work for this Organization and I shall start with education. I note that the programme in education has been conceived according to four basic guidelines, namely, the elimination of all forms of inequality and discrimination, the eradication of illiteracy, the improvement in the quality of education and the strenthening of the contribution which education can make to furthering inter- national understanding and peace. These four tenets correspond very closely to the guidelines laid down recently by the National Commission on Education in Botswana, in whose elaboration Unesco participated, guidelines which my govern- ment has readily accepted and is now in the process of following up. For it is our belief that progress will only be made in education if these guidelines point in the direction in which we should all go.
16.7 The Commission identified a number of problems that needed to be overcome, namely: inadequate emphasis had been given to primary education with the result that the quality of primary education was low; schools were too separated from the world of work, with no opportunities to combine study and work; too few opportunities existed for people to continue their learning outside the formal education system; and the gap in quality standards and educational opportunities between rural and urban schools.
16.8 The following four educational objectives have been set: democracy, devel- opment, self-reliance and national unity, which together lead to social harmony. Adapting the educational structure to the national objectives has involved sub- stantial changes throughout the educational system.
16.9 My delegation supports the programme and budget proposals for the triennium
1981-1983. If I choose to comment on what appear to be some gaps or possible shortcomings, I would ask you to remember that in principle we approve of the programme as it stands. First, a general statement. There is always a certain glamour associated with the word "innovation" and in some quarters the use of that word almost immediately commands admiration. Of course Unesco should be in the forefront of new thinking, but at the same time there could be a tendency for those who conceive the programme unconsciously to be out of touch with the world of reality. Very often it is help over the bread-and-butter issues which is needed the most. Therefore we would ask that the programrers should be kept in close contact with the actual needs of Member States, possibly by encouraging mobility of staff between Headguarters and the Field. Innovations should not be made at the expense of consolidation. The benefits of innovation are often missed because innovations are not given a chance to take root and to b consolidated. ,
16.10 We are very glad at the emphasis being placed on science and technology. l am sure that Botswana is with the majority of the developing world in saying that our greatest need is for education in the sciences, mathematics and tech- nical subjects and it is heartening to find this need being so adequately and    comprehensively met. Similarly, many of us are conscious of our own shortcomings in educational planning and administration and of the urgent need to improve our capabilities in this area. In this respect, we hope that in the Director- General's plans for decentralization - which we warmly support - thought will be given to decentralizing some of the activities of the International Institute for Educational Planning, since it could only be beneficial 'to have the experts associated with this institute working in closest co-operation with Member States.
16.11 I now turn to the subject of the handicapped, those for whom special com- passion and consideration are required. There are various statistics concerning the number of young people who fall into the category of the handicapped: some have suggested that it may be as high as one in seven and certainly all agree that it is a substantial section of the world population. This being so, the provision for assistance in special education seems meagre, the more so when it is remem- bered that in the developing countries, which are already having to set aside a large proportion of their funds for education, there is a tendency to make avail- able far less funds than are needed for the handicapped. We are therefore making a heartfelt plea to the Director-General that the budget for the handicapped should be given much more prominence, not only in the section on special education but in every aspect of the educational programme. Here may I add that in Botswana there is particular concern for the handicapped. Our three special institutions, one for the blind, one for the deaf and one for the physically handicapped, are doing valiant work, but it is recognized that more is needed. In consequence of this, a special fund known as the Sir Seretse Khama Memorial Fund for the Handi- capped has been set up.
16.12 The struggle against illiteracy, and its essential complement, the pro- motion of integrated rural development, feature prominently in the programme and we wish to support this. There is surely no need for me to emphasize the import- ance of these two sectors of Unesco's work. In Botswana we have just initiated a programme in which it is planned to reach, over the next five years, a third of our illiterate population. We are all aware, however, of the danger which could arise through the emergence of two distinct sectors of education, the formal ladder, as is to be found in every country, and what is often termed the non- formal approach, that is the continuum which should be available to those many citizens whose learning may start in a literacy class and be continued in some form of out-of-school extension training. It will certainly not be helpful for the idea to take root that there are first- and second-class forms of education. Both should be developed together and we believe that Unesco can play a useful role in encouraging discussion on how best to meet and overcome the problem.
16.13 I nowwish to turn to the natural sciences and to highlight one issue which is of critical concern to us in Botswana, as it is in so many other countries afflicted by drought due to haphazard and inconsistent climatic conditions. We are par- ticularly pleased that one of the main thrusts in the scientific procramme is the improvement of knowledge concerning water resources and development of the scien- tific bases for understanding interrelationships between human activities and the hydrological system and for developing the rational management of water resources. Water is the basis of life and the motto of my country is "PULA" which means "RAIN". If you look at our flag, which is proudly displayed among flags of Unesco member nations on the stage, much of it is blue symbolizing the blue sky which gives forth the water of life. This shows how we recognize the supply of water as a primary need. Anything therefore which Unesco can do in furthering our knowledge of the control of the water available to us will find a ready response in my country. Of several comments which might be made, we especially welcome the emphasis placed on the training of specialists in the water sciences. We notice, however, that only two of the eleven institutions listed in this pro- gramme are in developing countries and none in the drought areas of Africa.
16.14 The social science programme seems to us to be well-balanced and likely to provide much information which will be of great value. It is difficult in this sector to extract any part or parts for particular emphasis since they are all aspects of a whole, namely the promotion of integrated development with man as the centre. Let me highlight some of the matters mentioned which are likely to be of particular interest to my government.
16.15 First, my delegation fully supports the proposal to encourage the develop- ment of social sciences, both through assistance to institutions of higher learn- ing and in schools. We whole-heartedly endorse the efforts being made by Unesco towards the promotion of human rights and the strengthening of peace. Botswana has been consistent in its condemnation of all forms of discrimination, racism and apartheid and consequently welcomes the Organization's programme on human rights. We support, with the same emphasis, the work being done in population education, in the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women and in the protection of the environment. These are fundamental issues which require determination and sincere efforts on the part of Unesco and of the Member States.
16.16 Allow me, however, to draw your attention particularly to the programmes directed towards youth, not kecause they are any more important than those I have referred to, but because they are less likely to attract international attention. I do so for two reasons: firstly, because the youth of the world of today are the leaders of the world of tomorrow; and, secondly, because in many countries, such as my own, young people constitute a very large proportion of the population. Whatever can be done to ensure that our girls and boys grow up as sensitive, con- cerned, responsible and open-minded citizens will surely pay enormous dividends in the future. If the minds of young people can be impregnated with ideas of peace, of human brotherhood transcending ideological, racial and religious barriers and of respect for the earth and the fullness thereof; if this can be done, we shall surely be able to look forward with optimism to the world of tomorrow. It follows, therefore, that the youth programme of Unesco should be given the utmost support; in particular, every opportunity should be given to young people to travel and experience life in contexts other than their own; not in regimented or supervised hordes but as individuals, meeting with their contemporaries on equal terms. 1 believe Unesco could do much to sponsor and inspire such a pro- gramme. Likewise, my government is keenly aware of the importance of physical education and is doing everything possible to improve the facilities available to children and young people in all forms of sport.
16.17 Lastly, I come to communication and culture. Again my delegation entirely supports the work of Unesco in furthering an appreciation of the cultures of the world, in fostering cultural identity, in preserving the great cultural sites which enrich our earth. We also support the book development programme; and in a country such as my own we endorse proposals for low-cost book production and the stimulation of national book development policies. We are particularly interested in the help to be given to Member States in the designing and pro- duction of suitable books for new literates and also for those who wish to learn an international language after mastery of the mother tongue.
16.18 We support the efforts being made by Unesco for the free flow, and a more balanced exchange, of information and join in the call fcr a new international information and communication order. In my country we believe in freedom, by which we mean freedom of conscience, freedom to express our views, so long as this is done with legality, and freedom to disagree. We are not frightened by dissent because we believe it is only when a citizen has had the opportunity of understanding all sides of an issue that a rational and acceptable attitude will be adopted. My country is proud of being a society in which tolerance of others is a hallmark. We do not subscribe to the idea that information should be solely in the hands of government. Thus, while we believe that in a new dispensation a way must be found to make exchanges of information balanced and fair, which is not the case at present, we would not wish such a change to be effected in a manner which stifles or impedes the essential richt of the public to have access to all forms of information from whatever quarter.
16.19 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I return to one of my opening remarks, and more specifically to our determination, on recently joining this Organization, to give it all the support we can. We believe passionately in the ideals for which Unesco stands: peace and human brotherhood; tolerance towards those who disagree with us; support to those who are oppressed; help to those who are handicapped and discriminated against.
16.20 No matter from which country we come, whether it be industrialized or developing, capitalist or socialist, from north, south, east or west, none of us should claim to be above reproach or not to need improvement; all of us have much to learn from others. For this to come about, we need the facilitating hand of an organization such as Unesco, which by fostering interchange between nations, and at this time particularly between developing countries themselves, can do much to improve the quality of life in each of our countries. It is for this reason that the Botswana delegation supports the programme proposals before this Conference, and accordingly prays for their successful implementation. Thank you, sir. :Nl! Y ‎ىلعديسلا.ةفايرلاوبابشلاوةينطولاةيبرتلا yg Alam) ASIN sis : Sp RC ei
(17) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic): I thank the Head of the delegation of Botswana and I now give the floor to Mr Ali Pamdegue, Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports and Head of the delegation of Chad.
18.1 M. PAMDEGUE (Tchad) .- Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, je voudrais tout d'abord présenter au Président de la Conférence générale toutes les félicitations de la délégation tchadienne pour sa brillante élection à la présidence de cette vingt et unième session de la Conférence.
18.2 Je voudrais également, Monsieur le Président, m'associer à l'hommage qui a été rendu a cette tribune au Maréchal Josip Broz Tito dont le nom restera insépa- rable de l'histoire de notre temps.
18.3 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais aussi joindre ma voix à celle de tous les orateurs qui ont félicité le Directeur général, M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, ce digne fils de l'Afrique, pour sa brillante réélection. Ses qualités intellectuelles et morales et sa lucide vision du monde ont contribué et continueront à contribuer au rayonnement de notre Organisation.
18.4 Aux nouveaux Etats membres venus grossir nos rangs, ma délégation adresse ses salutations les plus cordiales et les plus fraternelles, notamment au Zimbabwe dont l'admission constitue la preuve du bien-fondé de la lutte de libération des peuples dominés.
18.5 Monsieur le Président, qu'il me soit permis en cette exceptionnelle occasion d'aborder devant vous trois thèmes - la situation qui prévaut dans mon pays, les problèmes mondiaux, enfin les activités de l'Organisation.
18.6 Pour ce qui est du drame tchadien, au moment même où je vous parle, les canons tonnent toujours sur la capitale, N'Djamena ; les victimes innocentes, hommes, femmes, enfants, vieillards, ne se comptent plus. L'arsenal militaire de plus en plus sophistiqué qui est utilisé ne contribue pas à faciliter une solu- tion. Malgré l'appel lancé par le camarade Goukouni Weddeye, président du gouver- nement d'union nationale de transition, demandant aux populations civiles d'éva- cuer les zones de combat, les forces armées du nord de Hissen Habré, dans une si- tuation difficile, maintiennent quelques populations civiles en otages dans cer- tains quartiers africains pratiquement désertés. La ville de N'Djamena est un véri- table champ de ruines : l'université quasiment rasée, la cathédrale pulvérisée, la mosquée, l'une des plus grandes et des plus belles d'Afrique, sérieusement endom- magée ; quant aux infrastructures scolaires tant au niveau de l'enseignement élé- mentaire que du secondaire, il est inutile de préciser leur état.
18.7 L'ironie du sort veut que ce soit en 1979, Année de l'enfance, que l'enfance et la jeunesse tchadiennes aient le plus souffert et aient tout perdu de l'aide qui leur était destinée par les pays amis et les organisations internationales.
18.8 Il va sans dire que les conséquences désastreuses de cet état de guerre et de la tension permanente qui l'accompagne ne peuvent qu'être préjudiciables au développement socioculturel et économique d'un pays qui en éprouve bien plus que d'autres le besoin.
18.9 Monsieur le Président, au moment où le gouvernement d'union nationale de transition, seule institution légale depuis les accords de Lagos du 21 août 1979, tente de remettre sur pied quelques structures administratives, économiques et scolaires, je voudrais, du haut de cette tribune, lancer un vibrant appel à la communauté internationale pour qu'elle apporte son concours et son soutien à cet effort. Au nom du gouvernement tchadien, qu'il me soit permis de demander à l'Unesco une aide d'urgence tant en matériel qu'en personnel afin d'assurer la rentrée scolaire au niveau de l'enseignement élémentaire et du secondaire dans les zones de sécurité et là où se trouvent les enfants des réfugiés. Par ailleurs, nous souhaitons vivement que le sort de nos étudiants et stagiaires à l'étranger, dont la situation est précaire en dépit des aides allouées par certains pays frères et amis et par certains organismes internationaux, puisse être examiné avec la plus grande bienveillance.
18.10 En proie à la guerre civile et fratricide qui dure chez nous depuis bientôt vingt ans, nous en connaissons suffisamment les conséquences néfastes aux niveaux humain, social, culturel, économique et politique pour ne pas aspirer à autre chose qu'à la paix ; voilà pourquoi nous appelons de tous nos voeux l'établisse- ment d'une paix durable dans le monde, surtout lorsqu'on sait que des situations explosives comme celles du Moyen-Orient, qui déchaînent des passions, ne peuvent conduire qu'à l'aggravation extrême des tensions pouvant entraîner des consé- quences tragiques pour l'humanité tout entière.
18.11 Monsieur le Président, à ce moment historique de notre temps où le droit à l'autodétermination est devenu un principe intangible de la vie internationale, les luttes de libération, telles que celles que mènent les peuples de Namibie, d'Azanie ou de Palestine, sont des luttes légitimes qui doivent bénéficier de        l'appui sans faille de la communauté internationale. C'est pourquoi le Tchad, mal- 24 gré sa situation de guerre, soutient résolument toutes les luttes de libération et espère un jour voir ces pays prendre place, sur un pied d'égalité avec les autres, dans le concert des nations.
18.12 Très préoccupée par ce qui se passe en Iran et en Irak, la délégation tcha- dienne s'associe entièrement à l'appel qui a été lancé ici même par le Directeur général de l'Unesco, M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow.
18.13 La paix constituant la condition "sine qua non" de l'exécution des actions définies par notre Organisation, il n'est de toute évidence pas inutile de mettre l'accent sur le rôle que doit jouer l'Unesco pour sensibiliser toujours davantage l'opinion internationale à la nécessité d'instaurer la paix et d'inciter à un dé- sarmement général. Une réelle coopération entre les Etats membres, qui apparaît comme un moyen de promouvoir la paix et d'éviter l'affrontement, s'impose donc.
18.14 Monsieur le Président, est-il besoin de souligner que seule la maîtrise de la science et de la technologie par les pays du sud pourra favoriser un développe- ment acceptable et une coopération véritable entre partenaires égaux ? C'est dans ce domaine que la contribution de l'Unesco doit être déterminante. Nous prenons donc note avec satisfaction des huits projets majeurs d'application de la science et de la technique du développement proposés par le Directeur général.
18.15 Vous comprendrez aisément que ma délégation soutienne sans réserve le Pro- jet de programme et de budget pour 1981-1883 et qu'elle saisisse l'occasion offerte pour féliciter le Directeur général d'avoir apporté à la programmation une amélioration qui se traduira par une meilleure continuité de l'action. Ma déléga- tion souscrit enfin à l'approche intersectorielle qui consacre la priorité accor- dée aux pays dits du "Tiers Monde" et aux projets de caractère opérationnel.
18.16 Monsieur le Président, je ne saurais terminer cette intervention brève à dessein, sans évoquer le problème de l'information et de la communication. En une période si troublée, si incertaine que les plus pessimistes annoncent même l'apo- calypse prochaine, est-il superflu de souligner l'importance de la communication ? Nous ne le croyons pas. C'est pourquoi nous félicitons la Commission MacBride d'avoir accompli un travail qui nous paraît dans l'ensemble remarquable, même si certaines des idées émises ne rencontrent pas entiérement notre agrément. La Confé- rence générale saura, nous n'en doutons pas, soumettre le résultat de ces travaux à une réflexion approfondie qui débouchera sur des décisions pratiques éclairées. Les observations pertinentes formulées par le Directeur général - et nous l'en remercions - devraient l'aider dans cette tâche.
18.17 Nous autres Tchadiens, sommes malheureusement bien placés depuis les événe- ments du 12 février 1979, pour comprendre et déplorer que certains organes de presse de certains pays nantis s'emparent pour les déformer volontairement des informations en provenance de mon pays qui ne vont pas dans le sens de leurs inté- rêts. Que n'a-t-on pas fait pour minimiser les lourdes pertes humaines, les des- tructions, la destructuration générale, pour essayer de redorer à tout prix le blason d'un individu indigne et honni du peuple tchadien tout entier.
18.18 Si l'information n'était pas orientée et même baillonnée, le monde entier serait objectivement informé des horreurs commises par une clique manoeuvrée par certaines puissances détentrices de grands moyens d'information et qui ne rêvent que d'installer, quoi qu'il advienne et sans se préoccuper de faire couler le sang, un homme à leur dévotion à la tête de l'Etat tchadien. Mais nous ne nous laisserons plus tromper par les évocations pathétiques et subtiles qu'ont donné ces organes de presse d'un homme connu pour son sectarisme inqualifiable, son auto- ritarisme excessif, sa brutalité répugnante proche du fascisme. Ma délégation sou- haite que la Conférence générale puisse prendre des décisions pertinentes sur l'opportunité d'éliminer les déséquilibres et les inégalités entre le nord et le sud par la promotion d'une coopération internationale loyale en matière de communi- cation. Nous souhaitons également que soit définie une politique internationale permettant d'équilibrer davantage les capacités de création et de diffusion, et d'apporter plus d'égalité dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la culture, de la science et de la technologie. De la sorte, la communication sera au service de tous et de chacun ; elle favorisera le développement endogène des pays du sud, en tenant compte de leur identité culturelle et facilitera la compréhension, dans la sérénité, entre les peuples.
18.19 Monsieur le Président, à l'heure où nous devons nous pencher avec objecti- vité sur les questions de la communication, il ne faudrait pas que certains Etats membres nous fassent perdre de vue notre objectif, à leur profit.
18.20 Notre présence, Monsieur le Président, à cette vingt et unième session de la Conférence générale, en dépit des difficultés que connaît mon pays témoigne de l'attachement indéfectible du Tchad aux objectifs et aux idéaux de l'Unesco et de
1177   sa volonté de participer aux travaux de toutes les organisations régionales, inter- régionales et internationales. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
(19) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic): I thank the Head of the delegation of Chad. EXPLANATION OF VOTE BY THE DELEGATION OF GREECE CONCERNING ITEM 27.1 OF THE AGENDA EXPLICATION DE VOTE DE LA DELEGATION DE LA GRECE AU SUJET DU POINT 27.1 DE L'ORDRE DU JOUR EXPLICACION DEL VOTO DE LA DELEGACION DE GRECIA ACERCA DEL PUNTO 27.1 DEL ORDEN DEL DIA ВЫСТУПЛЕНИЕ ДЕЛЕГАЦИИ ГРЕЦИИ ПО МОТИВАМ ГОЛОСОВАНИЯ ПО ПУНКТУ 27.1. ПОВЕСТКИ ДНЯ  looAoA a ToeE E‏ لاحم AEREARNEME 2 7 1 3157 6ELA :I ve ‎ةسلجلاىفهدفوتيوضتحرشينأدويىذلانانويلابودنملةملكلانىطعأءةسلجلاهذهمتتخننألبق NISS
(20) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic): Before we conclude this meeting, I give the floor to the delegate of Greece who wishes to explain this delegation's vote at the meeting in which the Conference examined item 27.1 of the agenda.
21. М. KASSIMATIS (Grèce).- Monsieur le Président, vous voudrez bien m'excuser de vous avoir demandé la parole, mais je n'ai pas eu le temps de faire hier une brève déclaration pour expliquer mon vote lors de la séance du samedi 4 octobre. Cette déclaration est la suivante : l'abstention de la Grèce lors du vote concernant le projet de résolu- tion contenu dans l'Annexe I du document 21 C/108 ne signifie pas qu'elle ait une attitude négative au sujet de la proposition des pays des groupes III, IV et V tendant à augmenter le nombre de sièges dont ils disposent au Conseil exécutif. La Grèce, qui est l'héritière d'une très ancienne civilisation et qui se trouve au carrefour géographique des cultures européennes, asiatiques et africaines, a l'am- bition et la volonté d'être amie avec tous les peuples du Tiers Monde et des autres pays. Merci, Monsieur le Président. voet! YY ФАН plazas gel y + UN gs Sab
(22) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic): I thank the delegate of Greece and I declare the meeting adjourned. The meeting rose at 1 o'clock La séance est levée a 13 heures Se levanta la sesion a las 13.00 Заседание закрывается B 13.00 ARIN Aنبط‏ SUTTFF1 HÆ