Eighteenth plenary meeting
2: October 1980 at 2.45 p.m. President: Mr KHAN (Pakistan) later: Mr OLANIYAN (Nigeria) Dix-huitième séance plénière
22/6: RHEE ( 3771327 ( ЖА: 32/677204 (LEAR)     GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued) /DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)/ DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacidn)/ OBCYXIEHHUE ВОПРОСОВ ОБЩЕЙ ПОЛИТИКИ (продолжение) /(æt) ‎ةماعلا lee aaLo | BgSEE ( & ) Те The PRESIDENT: Thecmeetingiisicalled to order! fal igiveithe Floor "td HIE MrCH “Boima Fahnbulleh, Minister of Education of Liberia, Chairman of the Liberian National Commission for Unesco and head of the Liberian delegation.
2.1 Mr FAHNBULLER (Liberia): Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman and members of the Execu- tive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished Ministers of Education, your excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, as we continue our search for a positive direction for humanity to take, we ought to remember the efforts of those who in the past struggled to lay the foundations of understanding and brotherhood among the peoples of the world. We are indebted to such men, and the only lasting tri- bute we can pay to their memories is in our relentless efforts to build a world for our children which is free from the anxieties, prejudices and discrimination we know today.
2.2 Mr President, may I request you to congratulate Mr Ivo Margan on his election as President of the twenty-first session of the General Conference. In this public forum, I wish to convey to him and to the people of Yugoslavia my gratitude for the hospitality extended to the members of my delegation since our arrival in this beautiful and progressive country. Mr Margan may rest assured that we will take back to our country and people fondest memories of this land and of its people.
2.3 Mr President, the people of Liberia mourned the loss of that great patriot of Yugoslavia = Josip Broz Tito. In his lifetime, Tito became a shining symbol of courage, dignity and pride to millions all over the world. He was from Yugoslavia, but he belonged to the peoples of the world - especially to the millions of suf- fering humanity in the Third World who saw hope for redemption and leadership in the charm of this gentleman-soldier. Today, we meet among his people and extend a hand of friendship and solidarity to them.
2.4 Mr President, my delegation expresses to the Director-General, Mr Amadou- Mahtar M'Bow, its hearty congratulations on his re-election. On behalf of the Government and people of Liberia, I wish him the best of luck in his struggle to provide leadership and vision to an organization which has become the moral con- science of the world.
2.5 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come from a country which has one of the world's highest infant mortality and illiteracy rates. In my country, 80 per cent of the population is illiterate, and 165 babies out of every thousand die before they even have the privilege of enjoying the warmth of their mothers' arms. After
133 years of independence, my country cannot boast of 30 doctors. After 133 years of flying a flag - which in reality is not its own - my country has not produced
10 geologists. The irony of this is that iron ore is our major export. We are living witnesses to the phenomenon of dependence and underdevelopment. We not only know its theoretical postulates, we are also familiar with its practical implications.
2.6 Mr President, I come before you as the representative of a regime which has been condemned, abused, misrepresented, and ridiculed because it carried out a revolution which for some people does not tally with their system of values. How- ever, we know that historical judgements are perceptual, and have taken consolation from the fact that the broad masses of our people identify themselves with the historical process now under way in our country. The regime which was overthrown by Master-Sergeant Doe and members of the People's Redemption Council was a regime which distributed ignorance, poverty and disease to the majority of our people. The appalling conditions in which the masses lived did not allow for any kind of cultural development. Educational facilities were inadequate, and children were taught in filthy shacks which the Ministry of Education labelled as schools. When the sons and daughters of the people protested against the wretched conditions of their parents and the high cost of living, the regime answered with violence. On
14 April last year, 150 students, workers and unemployed youths were murdered on the streets of Monrovia by the late President's thugs. Under these repressive con- ditions, the militant young members of the armed forces decided to strike a blow for liberation.
2.7 Mr President, the situation of my country makes it easy for me to understand the necessity for a new international economic order. In this regard, my govern- ment whole-heartedly supports the efforts made by Unesco to rectify the structural      imbalances in the world's economy. By providing the analytical tools, Unesco will no doubt help humanity to transcend the narrow horizons of self-interest, apathy and callousness. This is our hope.
2.8 The demand by the nations of the Third World for a new international economic order must be considered as a plea for sanity in human relations. The advance- ment of tomorrow's civilization will depend on the humanization of man in society. This can only come about through the development of the intellectual, spiritual and cultural potential of the human personality. The poverty and wretchedness suf- fered by the masses in the Third World are obstacles to the realization of man's true worth.
2.9 The developed nations owe it to posterity to help fashion a world based on justice and respect for human dignity. The trend in today's world of unequal ex- changes, inflation, fluctuations in commodity prices and large-scale unemployment, if allowed to continue, will certainly undermine the foundations of human society and make impossible the establishment of a just and humane world order.
2.10 Mr President, in the light of the prevailing international situation, my delegation commends the Director-General and his staff on the Draft Programme and Budget submitted in document 21 C/5. Unesco can only provide the tools, the means and the direction for constructive world development; the leaders of the world must provide the most vital ingredient - the will.
2.11 Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the human will - its ability to:con= struct or destroy - has been man's primary obsession since the dawn of civiliza- tion. Is the human will determined by self-interest? Is self-preservation the regulator of human will? Or, is man's intelligence an attribute CE his will "= no matter how constructed? These questions are fundamental to an understanding of man's relationship to his fellow men.
2.12 Unesco's efforts to promote respect for human rights is a laudable under- taking. However, the effective promotion of this must begin with the education of man and the application of the human will to constructive ends. We must broaden our terms of reference to include the economic and social facets of human develop- ment. In this regard, Unesco's attempt to transcend the narrow political defini- tion of human rights must be highly commended. In a world of haves and have-nots, of developed and developing nations, of privileged groups and poverty-stricken masses, definitions are not infrequently determined by self-interest and national parochialism. Man must educate himself to understand the collective destiny of humanity, and in so doing release the bountiful energy of the human will which alone is capable of building a world in which the cultural identity and the human rights of all the peoples of the world will be respected.
2.13 Mr President, humanity is passing through a period of critical adjustment to the realities of today's world. The shift in the balance of power, the economic might of the OPEC nations, the refusal of national entities to accept dependence and neo-colonialism and the determination of oppressed peoples everywhere to rele- gate to the trash-pile of history all backward social systems have led to a feeling of insecurity among privileged groups and nations. The nations of the world must understand that national and international security cannot and will not be achieved by the stockpiling of weapons capable of destroying human civilization. In this era of rapid technological advancement, the development of weapons of mass destruc- tion is not the solution but the problem. Men of vision in the world of today ought to tell the political realist that no one race or nation has a monopoly of knowledge. As civilization progresses, man's knowledge of the world and his mas- tery over nature will allow him to determine the pattern of human development by inventions which will attest that the human intelligence is unlimited. Thus, man must choose between the arms race - which is prevailing today - and the race to arm the mind with the tools of education for the constructive promotion of peace, international security and disarmament.
2.14 Mr President, the task of Unesco is a formidable one. To transform the con- sciousness of man and direct him towards a future of brotherhood, dignity and jus- tice is no easy undertaking. In today's world, when progressive humanity has awakened to its historic destiny, cobwebs of racialism and discrimination still re- main. My government has rededicated itself - now, more than ever before - to the total elimination of apartheid - with all its attributes of represssion and de- humanization - from our continent. In this battle for justice and human dignity, we stretch out our hands in solidarity to Unesco. However, this Organization must become more fearless in its pronouncements on racialism and discrimination. It must apportion blame to those who consciously or unconsciously help to prolong the despicable system of apartheid. On the other hand, this Organization must be morally courageous and give praise to those who are helping in one way or another to put an end to this barbaric and immoral system. In this way, Unesco will vali- date its claim before history of being the moral conscience of the world.
2.15 Mr President, since the popular revolution in Liberia, my government has taken steps to rectify the educational imbalances in our society in an effort to break the shackles of ignorance, inferiority and dependency. We have initiated the first phase of our free education programme with the abolition of all fees in government elementary and high schools. We are working on plans to provide free textbooks to children in elementary schools and to subsidize the cost of text- books for high-school students. My government recently appointed a committee to look into the possibility of reducing the cost of school uniforms drastically. Within the next four years, we hope to introduce free and compulsory education for the children of Liberia. This is a mission we must fulfil, for the dignity of our people and the progress and prosperity of our nation.
2.16 My government, in keeping with its commitment to the full development of the human personality, has decided to upgrade the standard of vocational and technical education in the country in order to make every graduate a productive unit in the production process. We feel not only that the vocational and technical institu- tions must be upgraded to help in providing the manpower needs of our country but also that vocational, technical and agricultural training must be introduced in all high schools to promote the full development of our students and their parti- cipation in the productive process of the new society.
2.17 Mr President, an.illiterate population in this age of modern communication is a population at the mercy of unscrupulous manipulators. The mass media, domin- ated as they are by people with cultural biases, serve to exacerbate the inferior- ity feelings and the dependency syndrome of illiterate humanity. Unesco is trying to rectify the structural imbalances in the world's information and communication system - imbalances which have their origins in colonial history - but we feel that this might end up in a futile exercise if we only resign ourselves to making moral appeals to the consciences of those who now control the mass media. Even the attempt to aid Third World nations in counteracting the negative images of their social, political and economic processes portrayed by certain media for com- mercial purposes will only constitute a partial solution. Prejudices are not era- dicated by moral appeals or counter-prejudices, but by the enlightenment of the human intellect and the stubborn refusal to conform to stereotypes.
2.18 The Government of Liberia, in addressing itself to the problem of global inequities, has decided that it is first of all necessary to liberate men's minds from their blanket of ignorance in order to begin the march of progress into the future of dignity, justice and equality. In this regard, my government has accel- erated its adult literacy programme by providing the resources for an effective literacy campaign. In January next year we are going to turn the schools into literacy centres and send the students into the villages and towns to teach the masses to read and write. We feel this exercise is necessary as time is against us. We must eradicate illiteracy in our lifetime in order for tomorrow's genera- tion to be spared the errors of narrow-mindedness, ignorance and prejudice. We have set ourselves the task of building a nation and saving a people. We intend to do this - and do it we will!
2.19 Mr President, my delegation endorses the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-
1983. It is our hope that this august body will endorse the Draft Programme and Budget without sterile rhetoric and innuendo, and allow Unesco to continue the good work of providing vision in a world of darkness, direction in a world which has lost its course, order in a disorganized environment and hope in a world of broken faith and shattered dreams.
2.20 Ladies and gentlemen, the future belongs to the children of the world. Our generation has no right to destroy the dignity and personality of the human being. We cannot remain true to our historic calling if we turn today's world into an inferno and leave the ashes for tomorrow's children. No! History will never for- give us if we allow our pride and arrogance to destroy our sense of judgement. The world's children have a right to a world that is better, more progressive and more dignified than the one we inherited.
2.21 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the message I bring to you from my people, a people who only yesterday were mere onlookers in the voyage of history, but who today have decided to join the march of progressive humanity by moving up to the vanguard of the African revolution. I thank you, Mr President.
3. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Liberian delegation and I give the floor to the Hon. Mr Kwamena Ocran, Minister of Education, Culture and Sports of Ghana and head of the Ghanaian delegation.
4.1 Mr OCRAN (Ghana): Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, may I at the out- set associate myself and other members of the Ghanaian delegation with the warm    words of congratulations expressed to Mr Ivo Margan, on his unanimous election to the presidency of the twenty-first session of the General Conference. I should like to assure him of the willing support and co-operation of my delegation in all efforts aimed at the successful outcome of our deliberations here under his guidance.
4.2 Mr President, in spite of the difficulties which have faced this Organization in recent times, it is true to say that the past six years have seen significant and important achievements in all the Organization's fields of competence. This could obviously not have been achieved without the dedication, steadfastness, sense of purpose, devotion to duty and competence with which the Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, has guided the affairs of Unesco. His unanimous re- election by secret ballot for a second term of office a few days ago constitutes clear recognition by Member States of his sterling qualities of leadership and his ability to lead the Organization in the even more difficult years ahead. Africa is proud of this servant of great culture, great intellect and great conviction.
4.3 Mr President, the accession to membership of this Organization of newly inde- pendent and young nations is always a great source of joy and pride to us. It en- hances the rich cultural diversity of the Organization and represents a victory for humanity and freedom. It is in this spirit that we join all delegates in wel- coming the states of Saint Lucia, Dominica, Equatorial Guinea, Botswana, Sao Tome and Principe, Maldives, Tonga and Zimbabwe.
4.4 Mr President, my delegation feels, as others have before us, that the Director- General and his staff, in presenting us with document 21 C/5 have faithfully fol- lowed the directives given by the General Conference at its twentieth session. In the programme for the next triennium, they have succeeded in drawing up a document which, in its basic orientation, conceptual and practical framework strikes a fair balance between what is desirable and what is attainable. The document makes am- ple provision for evaluation, reflection and study to guide the Organization in its future activities.
4.5 And that is why we are of the view that the programme laid down in docu- ment 21 C/5 will enhance the Organization's capacity to attain the objectives of the current Medium-Term Plan. Furthermore, we are pleased to note that the pro- gramme contains significant shifts in emphasis, particularly in favour of science and technology, to cope with the new priorities emerging in our world today.
4.6 In his introductory statement, the Director-General made a precise analysis of major world problems which need to be taken into account in our discussions on the future programme. The Ghanaian delegation wishes to express its strong sup- port for the Director-General and his staff in the major undertaking relating to the elaboration of the Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989. We are quite sure, in the light of previous experience, that this second Plan will respond adequately and effectively to the needs of Member States, especially the developing countries.
4.7 Very many important tasks have to be fulfilled by the Organization during the coming triennium and they require the positive support and understanding of all Member States in their implementation. I would therefore call for the acceptance of the budget proposals drawn up by the Director-General and his staff for the execution of the programme.
4.8 I think we owe an apology to no one in appearing to harp on the same issues and problems time and time again at General Conference sessions - issues and acti- vities like human rights and international understanding, the democratization of access to education, integrated rural development, the environment and human set- tlements, the improvement of vocational and technical education, the establishment of a new world economic order, a new world information and communication order and SO on. Although they are not new, I still feel that there is need for continual reinterpretation and evaluation of these problems in the context of current situa- tions and developments.
4.9 It is in this light that we have to consider the tasks before us during the coming weeks.
4.10 Mr President, we share the view that far-reaching changes at all levels of our educational system are called for, what with the accelerated progress of science and technology and the application of the latter to development. For this to materialize, education, in its widest sense, should be deeply rooted in national cultures, giving more meaning to the concept of endogenous development. At the same time, the teaching of science and technology should make it possible to nur- ture and develop talents in an atmosphere conducive to the creation and stimula- tion of a scientific culture.
4.11 This is by no means easy to achieve, as we in Ghana have painfully come to realize over the years. For instance, in 1976, the Government of Ghana approved a new structure and content of education for the country which sought to correct some of the problems and weaknesses in the educational system. The system was intended to carry further the principle which we accepted at the time of our independence, namely that every Ghanaian had the right to education as a funda- mental human right and that education should be free, compulsory and universal. Among its provisions were the expansion and consolidation of educational facili- ties so as to: (i) increase progressively the intake of children of school-going age; and (ii) reach as many adults as possible who wished to have access to adult education. In addition, the new system included a reform of the structure and of content of general education not only to make it employment-oriented but also to imbue young people with a sense of self-reliance. It was to make the educational system more responsive to the manpower needs of the country and strike the right "mix" between education as a consumer good and education as an investment in human capital. It sought to correct the existing imbalance and disparities in the edu- cational facilities in our educational institutions and, finally, to rationalize the administration and financing of education with the objective of achieving economy and efficiency.
4.12 The present Government of Ghana has accepted the basic philosophy and ideas of the new system and intends to put them into practice. Indeed, the government is required by the provisions of our present Constitution to continue the pro- gramme for universal and free primary education. But in spite of the fact that we continue to devote a great deal of our resources to education, we cannot, due to the constraints of our present economic situation, implement the provisions as rapidly as we would have wished.
4.13 With regard to science education, Ghana has benefited greatly from collabora- tion with Unesco in the past and we look forward to even greater collaboration in future. We note with pleasure that Unesco has maintained its interest in the teaching of the basic sciences and technology, and that due attention is being paid to the production of low-cost equipment for teaching, especially for teaching sciences and technology. It is also a pleasure for us to note that Unesco is in- terested in the exploitation of local raw materials and equipment as well as the construction of inexpensive school buildings and furniture. My delegation consi- ders that the time has come for Unesco to mount practical projects in this field. It is our hope that the Organization will, in the near future, help Member States to set up factories for the production of inexpensive equipment and materials for our schools. My government will watch the progress made in these fields during the next triennium and take advantage of the resulting experience.
4.14 We should also, Mr President, like to see wider co-operation between Unesco and African regional organizations such as the Science Education Programme for Africa (SEPA), the African Curriculum Organization (ACO), the African Social Studies Programme (ASSP), the Association of African Universities and the newly established All-Africa Association of Science Teachers whose activities are in line with Unesco's own programmes. These organizations are mainly financed from the slender resources of our Member States. Their activities serve in large mea- sure to reinforce what the African member countries are doing in such important fields as curriculum development and the training of personnel. Assistance to them would therefore be support for the initiatives of the African countries themselves.
4.15 Mr President, one of the fundamental tasks facing our Organization and, in- deed, the whole world is to narrow the growing gap between the rich and the poor within and among nations. The last few decades have brought a realization and strong awareness that we cannot begin to make any headway in this task without agreeing to restructure the present world economic order. A great deal of effort has been expended on the achievement of a new order, but the results have been abysmally few and disappointing. The political will to translate the good inten- tions and fine sentiments expressed into reality has always been lacking when it comes to taking concrete action. We would like to see, at least within this Organization, and in our discussions of the major problems facing us, a genuine desire to succeed. For, as the Director-General stated in his admirable Introduc- tion to document 21 C/5, "Unesco has a decisive role to play in reconciling the divergent interests of Member States because of its direct involvement in the very fields in which the unifying aspirations of mankind are most clearly reflected". Unesco should pursue with vigour the various research measures outlined in docu- ment 21 C/5 to enable the developing countries to negotiate more effectively with transnational corporations.
4.16 There is a need to evolve appropriate systems that will enable our people to enjoy the full benefits of the explosion in knowledge as it affects science and technology. It has been said that without science and its further progress man” Kind will not be able to survive. It ig equally true” that, unless its adapted      to the needs of the developing countries and made available for the solution of their problems, we cannot achieve the new world order which are all clamouring for. It is therefore with pleasure that we welcome the increased resources which Unesco is giving to general scientific and technological education.
4.17 Under the theme for the promotion of international co-operation in the field of science and technology, a study is envisaged on trends and prospects in the organization of scientific and technological activities which would contribute to endogenous development and promote independence in the choice of technology. This is an important study which will be heartily welcomed by all developing countries. My delegation also looks forward to the future establishment of an international institute for the planning of scientific and technological development and to the report on it to the twenty-second session of the General Conference.
4.18 It is generally agreed, Mr President, that one of the main objectives of the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development (UNCSTD) is to formulate principles and guidelines which would help the developing countries to develop an endogenous capability for the effective application of science and technology to development within a framework of subregional, regional and inter- national co-operation. This laudable objective is very consistent with Unesco's own programmes. Furthermore, it enables many of the recommendations of the UNCSTD Programme of Action to be adjusted to Unesco's national science programme. It is therefore my delegation's hope that a way will be found for Unesco to play fully its legitimate role in the UNCSTD programme.
4.19 Mr President, we who have been entrusted with the task of developing scien- tific, educational and cultural relations among peoples and of furthering universal respect for justice, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms should be saddened by the inadequate resources which certain states are prepared to de- vote to the attainment of these noble goals, especially since they do not hesitate for a second when it comes to allotting large sums of money to armaments and wea- pons of destruction. Indeed, we seem to live in a world of paradox for, although we all realize the harmful effects of these weapons of death, we seem to be help- less in halting their inexorable increase year after year. Unesco's role in this sphere is quite clear. It is to develop a climate of world opinion appropriate to supporting measures in favour of disarmament education. Unesco's activities in this direction are commendable and need the continued support of all.
4.20 Mr President, as an organization, Unesco draws its strength form the moral stature and excellence of its studies and research and its boldness in pursuing objective truth. Even those who have had cause to be concerned about some of the Organization's activities have nothing but admiration for its overall remarkable record of achievements. It is in this light that we welcome the Director-General's efforts to continue the promotion of research on the manifestation, causes and effects of the violation of human rights with particular reference to racialism, neo-colonialism and apartheid. We remain sceptical about the genuiness of any reforms under the present regime in South Africa. Any measures taken within Unesco's fields of competence to bring about the elimination of apartheid will have our unreserved support.
4.21 My delegation recognizes the major role that the social sciences must play in elucidating and finding solutions to the many problems facing mankind today. We therefore note with appreciation the activities proposed in document 21 C/5 to develop the capacity of the social sciences to serve the needs of the various societies in the world. It gladdens our hearts to note in this connection that emphasis is being placed on national and subregional meetings and workshops. Al- though we recognize that the various regions have something to learn from each other, this emphasis, in our view, is a clear attempt to foster endogenous development.
4.22 In the same document, 21 C/5, it is proposed that а meeting of experts be convened to examine the major problems facing societies and mankind today (para- graph 3015). My delegation recalls that, over the last two decades or so, the West African subregion has experienced a number of significant events which have had serious consequences for her development. I refer, Mr President, to the coups d'état which have hampered the stability of the subregion with obvious consequences. We wish to propose that the meeting of experts referred to above should look at this subject in depth to enable the Organization to initiate action to study the causes, effects and possible trends of military intervention in the politics of the West African subregion.
4.23 Fully aware of the crucial role which the mass media could and must play in the elimination of certain pernicious practices, notions and ideas, we in this Organization, at the twentieth session of the General Conference, issued the fa- mous Declaration on fundamental principles concerning the contribution of the mass media to strengthening peace and international understanding, to the promotion of    human rights and to countering racialism, apartheid and incitement to war. Ina wider sense, this also constituted recognition of the important role which commu- nication can play in the life of societies and its impact on the development pro- cess. During the current session we shall have the opportunity to discuss the con- clusions contained in the final report of the International Commission for the Study of Communication Problems (the MacBride Report) and the Director-General's comments on it. The report has generated and continues to generate a great deal of contro- versy and interest, both favourable and unfavourable. My delegation will have more to say on this issue in the appropriate commissions. 1 merely wish to say at this juncture that my delegation urges that we approach the discussions on the report from the point of view that confrontation and combative debate would not help us to reach a genuine consensus on future action in the communication field within the framework of Unesco. But let there be no misunderstanding about the determination of all the countries in the developing world to see to the establishment of a new world communication order of which this study forms one essential link or part.
4.24 I may add that efforts to correct the present world imbalance in communica- tion cannot make any headway unless appropriate policies and infrastructures are evolved and established within national boundaries. We therefore appreciate the priority which has been given to this matter in the draft programme and budget.
4.25 The present Government of Ghana, realizing the need for a free and unfet- tered -flow of information within our national boundaries, has recently established a press commission to give the public an opportunity to participate in the produc- tion and management of the mass media.
4.26 We are gratified to note that the necessary emphasis has been placed on ap- propriate activities in the cultural sector. Culture encompasses the values in- herent in thought, traditions, artistic expression and the way of life of a com- munity. A genuine appreciation of and respect for cultural identity not only helps endogenous development but also leads to mutual respect and understanding of each society's cultural identity. In such a situation, there can never be any notion of racial separation and/or racial superiority. We therefore look forward to the holding in 1982 of the Second World Conference on Cultural Policies which, like the earlier conference, will hopefully have a decisive impact on cultural policies and development.
4.27 It is true to say that developing countries, especially those in Africa, have suffered serious set-backs in their efforts to bring about cultural renaissance since the achievement of independence. Glaring examples of these can be observed in the spheres of artistic creation of communication whether by the press, radio, television or cinematography.
4.28 The spoilage of programmes in these fields is alarming, notable among the causes being breakdowns in infrastructural provisions, programme discontinuities due to lack of funds and necessary supplies and inadequate co-ordination of the strategies of the various institutions concerned with cultural development. My government believes that greater attention should be paid to the solution of these problems by the international community.
4.29 Mr President, these remarks would be incomplete without the expression of our sincere appreciation and thanks to the Government and friendly people of Yugoslavia for the excellent facilities and generous hospitality they have pro- vided for the holding of this General Conference session. On this occasion, it is appropriate to pay a special tribute to the memory of the founder of modern Yugoslavia, the late Marshal Josip Broz Tito, whose death was deeply felt all over the world and who, were he alive today, would have added his great stature and wisdom to the successful conclusion of our deliberations. All peace-loving countries and, in particular, the non-aligned nations, owe him an immense debt of gratitude. We in Ghana recall with a mixed feeling of regret and satisfaction the fraternal and special relationship that existed between this great leader of Yugoslavia and our late President Dr Kwame Nkrumah during their lifetimes.
4.30 Mr President, let me conclude by saying that my delegation looks forward to very fruitful and constructive deliberations at this General Conference session. In Nairobi the spirit of consensus was born. Let us hope that at the end of our meeting here we shall all be able to agree that the underlying spirit in Belgrade was that of realism and goodwill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
5. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Ghanaian delegation and I give the floor to Her Excel- lency Mrs N.J. Stadwijk-Kappel, Under Minister for Culture, Youth and Sports of Suriname and head of the Surinamese delegation.
6.1 Mrs STADWIJK-KAPPEL (Suriname): Mr President, Mr Director-General, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, minis- ters, your excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by extending a warm
920    welcome to the Member States which have joined Unesco since the twentieth session of the General Conference. We should like to extend this welcome, in particular, to Dominica, Saint Lucia and Zimbabwe. We hope that Unesco will provide their representatives with an effective instrument for fruitful and intensive partici- pation in collaboration among the nations through education, science, culture and communication, in order to further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for the human rights and fundamental freedoms which are affirmed by the Charter of the United Nations for the peoples of the world, without distinction of race, sex, language or religion.
6.2 We extend, on behalf of the Government and people of the Republic of Suriname, our greetings to the Government and people of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. We extend these greetings more particularly to the President of the Presidency of the Republic, whose presence added so much lustre to the opening of this session of our General Conference.
6.3 We should like to congratulate the highly esteemed Mr Ivo Margan on his elec- tion as President of our session. We wish him every success in his high office. We also express our gratitude to the country he represents, Yugoslavia, which is showing us such splendid hospitality.
6.4 We should like to take this opportunity to express our appreciation for the high degree of good understanding which has been reported to exist within the Executive Board and between the Executive Board and the Direcotr-General. We con- gratulate the Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Chams Eldine El-Wakil, the mem- bers of the Board and the Director-General for this achievement, since they manage to work in the spirit of consensus which we favour so much in our Organization.
6.5 On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Suriname, we should like to congratulate Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow on his re-election as Director-General of this Organization. We in Suriname have appreciated very much the able and conscien- tious way in which he has headed the work of the Organization in a spirit of con- sensus; the way he has been able to decentralize the activities of the Organiza- tion, making sure that all of us can benefit more from the results of the com- bined efforts of the nations. Mr M'Bow has encouraged and strengthened regional and subregional co-operation in areas within the competence of Unesco. And that encouragement has borne fruit in action beyond the areas of Unesco's competence. We are very thankful for this type of leadership. We wish Mr M'Bow the best of luck, courage and good health for the next term of seven years. The Government of the Republic of Suriname would like him to know that he can count on its support.
6.6 Mr President, in spite of the diversity of views concerning the international issues which are part of the agenda of the session, we have to recognize the simple fact that we are all living on, and from, the same planet, and that we have to con- struct the future for our people to do the same even after our short period of existence. The Surinamese delegation suggests that we accept this fact as a basis for dealing with the difficult issues before us. We also need to remind ourselves constantly that misunderstanding, conflicts and wars start in the minds of men. So let us make an effort to control them at their very roots, and at least during our deliberations.
6.7 I should like to use this occasion to give a brief expression of views on the establishment of a new international economic order; Unesco's role in generating a climate of public opinion conducive to the halting of the arms race and the transition to disarmament; Unesco's contribution towards improving the status of women; and problems relating to communication.
6.8 Mr President and distinguished delegates, were we to compare the quality and quantity of speeches and the pledges made in them, on the one hand, and the achieve- ments in the corresponding areas, on the other, we could not but feel discouraged and hopeless. We are aware of the progress made towards the realization of these Pledges under the leadership of the Director-General, but everything depends ulti- mately on the Member States which have made and which agree to these pledges. Have we been able to achieve any considerable progress in realizing the objectives of a new international economic order, even though we have never come across a single speech, at the various sessions, by a Member State which was not in favour of the establishment of a new international economic order? Have we been able to achieve progress, and I mean substantial progress, in the area of disarmament? Yet we have not come across a single speech in the General Conference so far against the achievement of disarmament. These are only two areas about which we can say that actions speak louder than words. So let us draw on the consensus, which there is, based on the available data, which can prove to us the disadvantages and certain destruction we are to face if we continue to rest our hopes primarily on words rather than on actions.
6.9 Mr President, the fact that serious and sometimes desperate economic situa- tions are affecting major portions of mankind, and cannot be allowed to continue without endangering peace and the aspirations after greater justice, equity and solidarity apparent among the peoples suffering from these situations, prompted the idea of establishing a new international economic order, implying changes within the complicated and multifaceted area of economic, social and cultural development. It is therefore impossible to bring about these changes by influ- encing only the economic aspects of our existence.
6.10 We agree completely with the view, expressed in document 21 С/12(рата= graph 19) that - and we quote - "a new international economic order should lead to a new human order, based on freedom, justice and equity, the abolition of in- equality between nations and peoples, mutual understanding, co-operation in the major tasks which mankind has in common, and participation by all in welfare, education, knowledge and culture".
6.11 The Government of the Republic of Suriname considers the establishment of the new economic order at the national level to be one of the outcomes of a new order, the aims of which are: firstly, the establishment of true democracy, social justice and an economic system based on the economic viability of our people and the self-reliance principle; secondly, promotion and development of nation-building and human dignity; thirdly, improvement of the quality of life; fourthly, achieve- ment of relative economic independence, with better income distribution, the crear tion of jobs and decentralized economic activities as some of the implications.
6.12 The expected results are: a new political and governing order; a new social order; a new economic order; and a new educational order (which implies changes and developments in the areas of formal and non-formal education, youth welfare, culture and sports).
6.13 The establishment of this order is, in our opinion, one of the actions to be taken to dignify man. We are happy to be able to contribute to the materialization of this awareness of our time.
6.14 The approach which results in the integration of education and productive work provides us with a helpful field of action to contribute to the establishment of the new human order. We consider the integration of education and productive work to be one of the most important instruments in this process. We have, how- ever, noticed that there seems to be a misunderstanding about this concept. What do we mean by integration of education and productive work? First of alk, pos duction stands for the creation of goods and services, as well as creation as the result of intellectual and artistic creativity. Education is an instrument for the development of human society. In order to educate, we must confront human beings, at all levels of their development, according to their environment, not only with the facts which govern their existence, but also with ways and means to devel- op, out of these facts, a life that is in accordance with the dignity of manasa Man has to learn to do so with or without the assistance of his fellows. Integration of education and productive work stands for a type of education that teaches us to function in the reality of our own existence, culturally, economically and socially. At some levels, it may emphasize the productive attitude; at others, it may con- front us with the answer to questions like: What shall I do, how and when shall ll do it? We do not support the idea of integration of education and productive work as an approach only for rural areas, in the case of developing countries. ‘Here we are dealing with a concept that must be applied in the process of curriculum development, to link up the content, methods and techniques of the educational pro- cess with the need of a particular society, be it a cultural, economic or social need. In this we do not distinguish between the so-called formal and non-formal education. We consider education to be an instrument in the process of national development. -As you may recall, we have supported this concept since the nine- teenth session in Nairobi, and later in Paris at the twentieth session of the General Conference.
6.15 As for the contribution from the Organization's other areas of competence, we may refer to document 21 C/12, dealing with Unesco's contribution to the estab- lishment of a new international economic order. We agree with the approaches pre- sented in that document for the programming of future actions.
6.16 On the question of the halting of the arms race, we shall limit ourselves to a few brief comments. Every one of us today is concerned about the ever-growing arms race, which has reached a critical point. The creation of new weapons am= pedes the growth of welfare; it delays progress in the areas of education, science, culture and communication. These are important reasons to justify the intensive involvement of our Organization. Speaking, a few days ago in Commission The Cuban delegate calculated again how many hospitals, schools and similar facilities couid be built, if only we could invest the allocations for the arms race in these sectors which promote the welfare and well-being of humanity. Representatives of         the Republic of Suriname never fail to stress the need to put an end to the arms race in relevant meetings within the United Nations system. We once again avail ourselves of this opportunity to express our support for Unesco in its attempt to contribute to the halting of the arms race. We are in favour of action to give effect to the Director-General's intention to play an influential role in contrib- uting to the achievement of disarmament.
6.17 The struggle for peace is for many nations a severe and bitter fight: a fight to eliminate colonialism; a fight to eliminate racism; a fight to gain their human dignity; a fight for justice and the establishment of international relations on a basis of mutual respect. Racism, racial discrimination and apartheid are crimes against mankind. They carry in them permanently the danger of armed con- flicts. We are of the opinion that Unesco must continue to support the efforts of people all over the world to prevent and to eliminate these evils.
6.18 Mr President, we recognize the efforts made by the Director-General of our Organization to take account of the interest of women in the planning and imple- mentation of the programme of the Organization. It is indeed a fact that women are a vital component in every aspect of human life. This fact itself justifies the necessity to ensure the participation of women in policy-making and in the planning and implementation of development programmes.
6.19 Some countries, including Suriname, may need assistance in developing the legal instruments for the elimination of inequality. The formulation of legal regulations designed to improve the position of women is being given high prior- ity in Suriname. So far as women's traditional role is concerned, the Organiza- tion could assist in analysing the content of that role. The collected informa- tion will give us insight into the skills and attitudes required to exist as a woman in a specific society or community. This, I am sure, will create more res- pect and understanding in societies for the traditional function and the role of women, and for women themselves. We are accustomed to take the functioning of women in society, as a housewife, as a mother - as housewife, mother and employee at the same time - for granted.
6.20 The collected information could be used to promote a better understanding of the position of women. It will provide us with information to construct a juster portrayal of women in society. Mr President, we favour the objectives presented under the heading 6.B (Status of women and participation by women in development) in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983, and look forward to the publication of the handbook on "Methods of preparing multidisciplinary pro- grammes relating to women".
6.21 Mr President, in the area of culture, we in the developing countries are faced, first and foremost, with the tasks of improving the quality of life, strengthening the positive awareness of our cultures and enhancing the quality of our cultural heritage.
6.22 We are of the opinion that all these items are sufficiently covered in the present approach of the Organization. We would therefore like to express our ad- miration for the insight of the Director-General and his staff in establishing a programme in such a subtle harmony with the epoch. Appreciation and respect for the cultural identity of each individual, group, nation or region, constitute an essential step in preventing misunderstanding, conflicts and even wars.
6.23 Mr President, we all agree nowadays that there are great deficiencies in the circulation of information among countries. We also agree on the consequences these deficiencies have, for example, for the developing countries, their devel- opment, and the dignity of their people. We recognize, however, that there are differences of opinion regarding the measures to be taken to eliminate these deficiencies. We in Suriname intend to start with the strengthening of the infra- structure of our communication system. We intend to strengthen the professional staff responsible for the transfer of information and to deal with other aspects, So as to make sure that we can contribute in an adequate manner to the exchange of information in the world community. The problems involved in the process of strengthening the capacity to communicate are immense. They range from the tech- nological, professional and material, to financial conditions. But, since a pro- per communication system will provide us with an important instrument to facili- tate, promote and initiate development in several areas, we shall have to concen- trate on this matter in the future.
6.24 We shall soon be requesting assistance from Unesco for the operationaliza- tion and implementation of the policy of our government in this area. We have noted with satisfaction the willingness of some fellow Member States to assist in the strengthening of the necessary infrastructures for communication. Among them is the Netherlands. We are very thankful for this positive approach.
6.25 Mr President, in conclusion, after careful analysis of the position of the developing countries, we have come to the conclusion that international organiza- tions like Unesco can provide us with a setting in which we can meet with represen- tatives of other nations on equal terms, regardless of their place in the hier- archy of power and wealth. Let us, therefore, cherish our Organization and con- centrate, during our deliberations, on its reinforcement. Thank you, Mr President.
78 The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Surinamese delegation and I given the floor to Dr Magda Jóború, President of the Hungarian National Commission for Unesco and head of the Hungarian delegation.
8.1 Mrs JOBORU (Hungary): Mr President, before presenting the comments of the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian National Commission for Unesco, I should first like to congratulate the elected President of the twenty-first session of the General Conference. I am convinced that the work of the present session will be successful under his guidance. May I also thank the Government of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for acting as host to this session. We welcomed the invitation of the Yugoslav Government for many reasons, not the least of which being the fact that Belgrade is closely associated with the idea of European security and co-operation which are of vital importance to the whole world.
8.2 We warmly welcome the new members of the Organization which happily has made another step, by their admission, towards achieving universality.
8.3 Mr President, Unesco can only succeed in its work and earn international prestige by proceeding, from an analysis of the major problems of the world, to seek ways and means of contributing to their solution through education, science, culture and communication. If we review the period since the twentieth session of the General Conference, we must state with regret that the international climate has become more tense. No progress has been made in the Geneva disarmament talks. The arms race has been stepped up by aggressive circles. There are dangerous hot- beds of crisis in several parts of the world - in the Middle East, South Africa and elsewhere. This increase in international tension is a source of legitimate concern to all who have realized that given the present degree of scientific and technical development, mankind has no acceptable alternative to détente, peaceful coexistence and peace. Those who believe in human rights must regard the right to life as the foremost of all rights, which cannot be guaranteed except by maintain- ing détente, peace and security. For its part, the Hungarian Government is endeav- ouring to make use of both bilateral and multilateral channels for co-operation with countries and international organizations seeking solutions to the dangerous situations in various areas of the world, and for the reduction of international tension through the peaceful settlement of controversial issues.
8.4 The increased tension of the international situation makes it a duty of Unesco to intensify efforts in the preservation of peace by using its own means and acting in its own area of competence. We fully agree with the Director- General's statement, in his Introduction to document 21 C/5 that: "Despite, or indeed because of, these uncertainties and dangers, we must strive harder than ever to achieve the aims assigned to our Organization by its Constitution and spelled out in greater detail in recent years by a broad consensus of its Member States. While all the organizations of the United Nations system have, in varying degrees, the difficult, indeed formidable responsibility of reconciling the often diverging wishes and interests of their Member States, Unesco has a distinctive role in that it is directly active in the very fields in which the unifying aspirations of mankind are most clearly reflected".
8.5 Mr President, as the representative of a European country, may I begin with the programme for European co-operation. It was here in Belgrade a few years ago that the Director-General stated that Unesco's programme for European regional co-operation had rich traditions, and that great importance was attached to the fact that all the countries of Europe were members of Unesco. Indeed, the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference entailed the need for Unesco to expand its tra- ditional programme and to give it still more substance. At the twentieth session of the General Conference, we noted that the programme for Europe, although it in- cluded several valuable projects, was poorer than in earlier biennia.
8.6 To our great regret, we have to state the same again. We deem it neces- sary to make this regional programme more substantial. We believe that fruitful co-operation between the countries of the European region is beneficial to the whole world. We welcome the new item on our agenda concerning the participation of Member States in the regional activities of Unesco, and hope that a thorough discussion of this subject will enrich the activities of all regions. The Hunga- rian delegation has submitted a draft resolution (21 C/DR.125) to the General Conference, the aim of which is the further development of Unesco's European       regional activity. We consider that the forthcoming CSCE follow-up conference, to be held in Madrid, will draw attention to numerous other possibilities of co- operation within the framework of Unesco.
8.7 Mr President, Unesco offers to its Member States many possibilities for the exchange of experience. It is very important in our rapidly changing world that experts living in different social systems and cultural conditions should ex- change experience, establish co-operation and formulate recommendations, declara- tions and conventions that serve to promote progress in all countries. The Hungarian Government finds it natural that Unesco should concentrate its material resources in the first place on support for the Third World, and especially for the least developed countries.
8.8 In view of the limited material resources of our Organization, it is impor- tant that they should be used in the most rational way possible. We feel that Unesco will contribute most effectively to the solution of pressing problems in developing countries and to the establishment of a new international economic order by enabling specialists of developing countries in educational, scientific, cultural and information policies to acquire the international experience that is necessary for the development of their countries, in accordance with national tra- ditions and aspirations. TI think this idea was expressed by the Director-General when, a few years ago here in Belgrade, he said: "The notion of a new interna- tional economic order expresses an essential claim to dignity on the part of those who desire through their own efforts to recover their innermost selfhood ... the new order can respond to the world's aspiration only if it allows each nation the possibility of progress while remaining true to itself".
8.9 Mr President, document 21 C/5 has a markedly new feature, consisting in a notable shift of emphasis to the natural and technical sciences. This is mani- fested not only in the chapter on natural sciences but also in other sectors of the programme. As a concomitant, there is a considerable budget increase for these purposes.
8.10 We endorse this new feature of the programme because we share the view of the Director-General), as stated in his Introduction” to’ document” 217'C/5, that changes are needed in Unesco to contribute as effectively as possible to the im- plementation of the Programme of Action approved by the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development. I would add only two remarks to our fundamental agreement. Firstly, the natural science and technology programme should be developed at a rate permitted by the intellectual, organizational and material resources of the Organization; and secondly, care should also be exer- cised to see that the vigorous development of the natural science programme does not adversely affect other sections of the programme.
8.11 Mr President, I should like now to make a few remarks on certain parts of document 21 C/5. May I begin by expressing our appreciation to the Director- General and the Secretariat for the elaboration of a triennial programme which is the first of its kind in the more than thirty years' history of our Organiza- tion. We feel that on the whole, the draft programme is keeping with the objec- tives of the Medium-Term Plan, with the resolutions of the twentieth session of the General Conference and with the requirements that have emerged during the intersessional period, and that it is more concentrated than previous programmes.
8.12 The education programme lays great emphasis on the education of youth for international understanding, disarmament and peace. We look forward to the 1982 intergovernmental conference to be devoted to this subject. This conference is closely related to resolution 34/75 of the United Nations General Assembly which proclaimed the 1980s the Decade for Disarmament.
8.13 We endorse the priority given to the struggle against illiteracy, and deem it important for Unesco to carry out relevant activities by taking account both of the positive and negative experience accumulated by various countries in this field and of the functional literacy programme of the Organization. In the natural science programme, we assign great importance to the comprehensive and long-term intergovernmental programmes such as Man and the Biosphere and the International Hydrological and Geological Correlation Programmes. These large-scale programmes have been highly successful and have increased the prestige of Unesco among natural scientists. We welcome the introduction of new programmes, particularly those dealing with research into biomaterials.
8.14 Actingon the conclusions and the recommendations of the United Nations Con- ference on Science and Technology for Development (UNCSTD), Unesco was right in initiating without delay a quest for means and ways of developing its science and technology programme. The most remarkable result of this quest is represented by the eight regional major projects proposed in the natural science chapter. These projects will certainly be successful if the necessary co-operation is established   between the Secretariat, other United Nations agencies and the specialists of the regions concerned and if the necessary financial resources are made available. Should the implementation of these projects also require the contribution of ex- perts from other regions, lam sure that Unesco can count on their support.
8.15 In the cultural programme, we attach great importance to all the actions and comparative research projects which will allow peoples to gain better knowl- edge of each other's cultures and to develop co-operation. We think that the World Conference of Ministers of Culture, which will probably take place in 1982, will be an event of particular significance, and will assist Member States - as the previous one did - in defining their major tasks of cultural policies in ac- cordance with their national particularities.
8.16 In the field of communication, the Declaration on the Mass Media adopted by the twentieth session and the Intergovernmental Conference for Co-operation on Activities, Needs and Programmes for Communication Development, held in Paris last April, were significant events in Unesco's activity.
8.17 A wide spectrum of activities is envisaged in the programme for the next triennium. We consider that priorities which are occasionally interlinked with projects of lesser importance should be given sufficient prominence. In this con- nection, we support the idea expressed by the Director-General in his Introduction to document 21 C/5 that in future, operative actions should be preceded by more analysis and, where necessary, more research. The priorities should be more close- ly related to the problems and tasks laid down in the Declaration on the Mass Media. We welcome and support draft resolution 21 C/PLEN/DR.5, which focuses at- tention on measures to be taken for the implementation of the Declaration. We also welcome the possibility of preparing a European intergovernmental conference on communication policies, to be held during the next few years.
8.18 The report of the International Commission for the Study of Communication Problems reached us a short while ago. In our view, the report gives a broad coverage of the role played by the mass media in the present-day world, and is greatly instrumental in increasing the international community's awareness of the interrelationship of communication with politics and culture. The Director-General has stated in his oral introduction that the report of the MacBride Commission should be considered as a starting-point for Unesco's future activities. We agree with him, and we are certain that the future communication programme of Unesco will be able to draw heavily upon this report.
8.19 Finally I should like to say a few words about the preparation of the Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989. I have to limit myself to a few brief remarks, since our National Commission has not had the necessary time to study it in depth. The preliminary report of the Director-General on the subject is a thought- provoking document, based on a thorough analysis of the major problems of the world, and making it clear that Unesco's mission is to contribute to the solution of these problems. We welcome the intention of the Director-General to consult experts before the final elaboration, and we are sure that this consultation, as well as the adoption of 21 C/PLEN/DR.4 dealing with Unesco's contribution towards solving the global problems of mankind, will be of great assistance in the final elaboration of a Medium-Term Plan which will guide the action of the Organization in the coming decade.
8:20;;Mr President, in conclusion, I should like to:voicei the conviction .ofimy government and of the Hungarian National Commission for Unesco that the successful outcome of the twenty-first session of the General Conference will be an important contribution to the continued development of the exchange of international experi- ence in the field of education, science, culture and communication and to the strengthening of international understanding and co-operation. Thank you.
9. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Hungarian delegation and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Kim Dal-Kouk, Vice-President of the National Commission for Unesco of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Ambassador-at-Large, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and head of the delegation of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
10.1 M. KIM DAL-KOUK (République populaire démocratique de Corée).- (discours prononcé en coréen, texte français fourni par la délégation) Monsieur le Président, je tiens tout d'abord à féliciter très chaleureusement M. Ivo Margan pour son élection à la présidence de cette Conférence. La délégation de la République populaire démocratique de Corée se félicite de sa participation aux travaux de la vingt et uniëme session de la Conférence générale et aussi du fait que celle-ci se tienne à Belgrade capitale de la République fédérative socia- liste de Yougoslavie, pays ami.
10.2 Je voudrais exprimer mes vifs remerciements au gouvernement et au peuple de la République fédérative socialiste de Yougoslavie pour l'excellente préparation de cette Conférence et pour leur hospitalité et leur accueil chaleureux.
10.3 Je saisis cette occasion pour dire la profonde douleur que nous a causé le décés du maréchal Josip Broz Tito, éminent leader du peuple yougoslave, qui a su conduire à une victoire brillante son peuple en lutte pour la libération et la prospérité du pays et qui a apporté une contribution essentielle à la fondation et au développement du mouvement non-aligné. Le décès du maréchal Tito est une grande perte non seulement pour le peuple yougoslave mais aussi pour les peuples des pays non alignés et pour tous les peuples du monde épris de paix. Les nobles exploits du maréchal Tito au service de la juste cause des peuples progressistes du monde, de la paix, de la démocratie, de l'indépendance nationale et du socialisme reste- ront gravés à jamais dans le coeur du peuple yougoslave, du peuple coréen et de tous les peuples épris de paix.
10.4 Monsieur le Président, depuis la vingtième session de la Conférence géné- rale, l'Organisation a enregistré des progrès remarquables dans ses activités vi- sant à mettre en oeuvre, conformément à ses idéaux, les décisions de sa Conférence générale et de son Conseil exécutif. Nous estimons que, sur la base des succès déjà obtenus, la présente Conférence marquera une nouvelle étape dans le développe- ment des activités de l'Unesco, répondant ainsi aux aspirations de l'humanité.
10.5 Nous tenons à exprimer notre satisfaction au sujet du Projet de programme et de budget soumis à notre examen qui, par son contenu et son envergure, marque un progrès sensible par rapport aux précédents.
10.6 Je remercie donc le Directeur général pour ses efforts énergiques et inlas- sables en vue d'améliorer et de développer les activités de l'Organisation. Je le félicite, d'autre part, très chaleureusement pour sa brillante réélection au poste de Directeur général et je lui souhaite un plein succès dans ses efforts pour faire progresser encore l'action de l'Unesco.
10.7 Monsieur le Président, l'Organisation accorde une importance toute particu- lière au développement national indépendant de ses Etats membres et elle déploie de grands efforts en vue du renforcement de la coopération internationale.
10.8 Nous estimons que le développement indépendant de chaque nation constitue une base élémentaire de la coopération internationale et une condition fondamen- tale de la réalisation des objectifs de l'Unesco.
10.9 Dans notre pays, sous la direction clairvoyante du président Kim Il Sung, grand leader de notre peuple, un développement très rapide s'opère dans tous les domaines de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture sur la base des idées de Djoutché.
10.10 Conformément aux principes énoncés dans la "thèse sur l'enseignement socia- liste" présentée par notre leader respecté et bien-aimé, la pédagogie socialiste est pratiquée avec succès dans notre pays. Son objectif est de former des hommes indépendants et créateurs, physiquement robustes et possédant à la fois une cons- cience idéologique aiguë et des connaissances scientifiques approfondies.
10.11 L'enseignement obligatoire et gratuit de 11 ans et l'enseignement pour les travailleurs se développent constamment, tandis que progresse la mise en oeuvre du principe de l'enseignement supérieur obligatoire.
10.12 La science djoutchéenne et la culture socialiste nationale ont atteint une étape très élevée de leur développement.
10.13 Notre peuple est très fier de son éducation, de sa science et de sa cul- ture, dont le développement a débuté après la libération du pays par un vaste effort d'alphabétisation aujourd'hui à leur apogée.
10.14 Notre peuple fera tout son possible, en se basant sur ses propres réalisa- tions, pour contribuer à la coopération internationale et à la solution des impor- tants problèmes internationaux auxquels l'Unesco fait face, tels que le renforce- ment de la paix dans le monde et l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique inter- national.
10.15 Monsieur le Président, l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique interna- tional est actuellement une nécessité pressante pour le développement indépendant des pays en développement. L'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique internatio- nal impl ique que soit établi un ordre économique équitable, conforme aux intérêts des peuples épris d'indépendance et pour cela, que soit modifié le vieil ordre Économique colonial. L'instauration du nouvel ordre constitue ainsi une condition très importante de la promotion de la paix, de la compréhension et de la coopéra- =tion internationales sur la base de l'égalité.
10.16 Cependant, ce probléme n'a pas encore pu trouver de solution satisfaisante à cause des manoeuvres d'obstruction des milieux intéressés au maintien de l'ordre économique ancien. Dans ces conditions, les pays en développement devraient oeuvrer en union étroite, en renforçant leur coopération économique et technique.
10.17 Si les pays en développement, confiants en leur force collective, mettent en oeuvre une coopération à laquelle ils participeraient les uns en apportant les techniques, les autres les matières premières et d'autres encore les ressources financières, ils obtiendront de grands succès. Ils pourront ainsi accéder à l'indé- pendance économique et promouvoir l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique.
10.18 L'Unesco devrait se préoccuper encore davantage des aspirations des pays en développement à un nouvel ordre économique international et apporter une contribu- tion plus efficace à l'instauration de celui-ci dans toute la mesure de ses moyens.
10.19 Monsieur le Président, prévenir la guerre et contribuer à la paix, c'est une des tâches importantes qui incombent à l'Organisation.
10.20 Malgré les efforts constants de l'Unesco, la situation internationale ac- tuelle s'avère très tendue et le danger de guerre ne cesse de croître. Sous l'appa- rence trompeuse de la "paix", les impérialistes poursuivent la course aux arme- ments en particulier dans le domaine nucléaire, et intensifient leurs manoeuvres d'agression et de guerre, aggravant ainsi la tension. Ils menacent la souveraineté des autres pays par l'installation dans le monde entier de bases militaires où ils déploient de formidables forces d'agression. A l'heure actuelle, la Corée du Sud est transformée en une des bases militaires les plus importantes des Etats-Unis. Les Etats-Unis d'Amérique y disposent de 150 bases militaires, sans compter
200 bases aériennes et 230 bases navales, et ils y ont déployé une gigantesque force d'agression disposant plus de 650 armes nucléaires.
10.21 Le gouvernement de la République populaire démocratique de Corée а maintes fois déclaré qu'il n'avait aucune intention d'envahir le Sud. Le peuple coréen n'a jamais envahi les Etats-Unis ; il n'a jamais pris même un pouce de leur terre, ni jamais jeté même un caillou sur leur territoire.
10.22 L'ensemble du peuple coréen, du Nord comme du Sud, aspire à la réunifica- tion du pays. Cependant les Etats-Unis tentent de fabriquer "deux Corée" pour que la Corée du Sud reste à jamais leur base militaire et ils aggravent la tension en poursuivant leurs exercices militaires agressifs dirigés contre notre République. C'est ainsi qu'au mois d'avril dernier, les Etats-Unis ont procédé à des ma- noeuvres militaires de grande envergure auxquelles ont participé d'importants ef- fectifs qui dépassaient 160.000 hommes.
10.23 Le démantèlement des bases militaires étrangères et le retrait des forces armées étrangères stationnées dans d'autres pays que le leur constituent une con- dition absolue du respect de l'indépendance nationale, et de la souveraineté des Etats et de la préservation de la paix et de la sécurité du monde.
10.24 Nous estimons que l'Unesco devrait redoubler d'efforts afin de contribuer efficacement dans les domaines de sa compétence, à la juste lutte des peuples pour le désarmement général et complet, 3 la dissolution des blocs militaires, au déman- tèlement des bases militaires étrangères, au retrait des forces armées étrangères et à la création de zones dénucléarisées et de paix, ainsi qu'à la liquidation du colonialisme, et aux efforts de libération nationale.
10.25 Le peuple du Zimbabwe a récemment accédé a 1' indépendance après qu'ait pris fin une domination coloniale abominable et il a ainsi apporté une contribution de première importance à la lutte des peuples contre le colonialisme et le racisme et pour leur liberté et leur libération.
10.26 Nous estimons que, conformément aux décisions qu'elle a déjà adoptées, l'Unesco devrait accroître son aide aux peuples colonisés, en premier lieu aux peuples de Namibie et d'Afrique du Sud dans leur lutte contre le colonialisme, le racisme et l'apartheid et pour leur libération, en second lieu aux peuples pales- tinien et arabes en lutte pour la récupération de leurs territoires occupés et, en ce qui concerne le peuple palestinien, pour le rétablissement complet de ses droits nationaux et pour l'instauration d'un Etat indépendant.
10.27 Nous condamnons Israël qui a illégalement annexé Jérusalem et l'a déclarée sa capitale éternelle. Cela constitue un défi flagrant lancé aux idéaux de l'Unesco. La présente Conférence générale devrait condamner la politique d'occupa- tion d'Israël et prendre des mesures plus résolues en vue de 1' application de ses résolutions concernant les institutions éducatives et culturelles dans les terri- toires arabes occupés.
10.28 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, le respect des droits de l'homme vient en tout premier lieu sur la liste des objectifs que s'est fixé l'Unesco. Dans sa résolution 10, adoptée à sa vingtième session, la Conférence générale a souligné que le respect des droits de l'homme et la lutte contre les violations massives, systématiques ou flagrantes de ces droits sont les éléments essentiels de la détente et d'une paix stable. Dans son rapport préliminaire sur le Plan à moyen terme pour 1984-1989, le Directeur général a remarqué que, malgré les efforts constants de l'Unesco, "il est de nombreuses situations où les pra- tiques contraires aux droits de l'homme subsistent et se sont même étendues". Telle est la triste réalité.
10.29 La Corée du Sud est la partie du monde où la répression massive et systéma- tique des droits de l'homme par les autorités est la plus manifeste. Actuelle- ment, en Corée du Sud, soumise à la "loi martiale", le peuple est totalement privé de la liberté et des droits démocratiques, et les étudiants font l'objet d'une répression cruelle pour la seule raison qu'ils ont demandé l'abolition de la "loi martiale" et la démocratisation de l'enseignement.
10.30 Comme le monde le sait, au mois de mai dernier, les autorités militaires de Corée du Sud ont massacré, dans la ville de Kwangdjou, les étudiants et les cita- dins qui s'étaient dressés pour défendre la démocratie. Elles ont mobilisé, pour les massacres de Kwangdjou, des forces armées formidables, soit un effectif de dizaines de milliers d'hommes avec des centaines de tanks et de blindés, des cen- taines de canons et même des missiles et des avions, faisant plus de 2.000 morts et plus de 10.000 blessés en dix jours seulement. Ayant reçu ordre de tuer 70 % des habitants de Kwangdjou et notamment tous les jeunes, les soldats de l'armée sud-coréenne ont massacré sans distinction étudiants et habitants, dont des en- fants de sept ans et des vieillards septuagénaires. Ils ont fusillé et poignardé au hasard et n'ont pas hésité à éventrer des femmes enceintes et à trancher les seins d'étudiantes à coups de poignard. L'agence Reuter a décrit la ville de Kwangdjou comme une "salle ensanglantée" et un journaliste américain a dit ee la ville de Kwangdjou était "une ville morte où seuls circulent les fantômes"
10.31 En ce moment même, les violations des droits de l'homme se poursuivent en Corée du Sud. Le droit à l'information est également violé. Pour la seule raison qu'ils avaient dit la vérité, près de 200 périodiques ont été interdits. A ce pro- pos, l'Institut de la presse internationale d'Helsinki a affirmé qu'un tiers des journalistes sud-coréens avaient été privés de leur emploi et que beaucoup avaient été tués ou emprisonnés.
10.32 Malgré l'accusation unanime de tout le peuple coréen et des peuples du monde entier, la cour martiale militaire de Corée du Sud a récemment condamné à la peine de mort M. Kim Dae Joong, ex-candidat présidentiel, qui avait mené des acti- vités légales pour la démocratisation de la société.
10.33 Tout cela est un défi flagrant aux idéaux de l'Unesco. Nous souhaitons que celle-ci soit une organisation efficace et notamment qu'elle puisse prendre les mesures appropriées face aux violations massives et systématiques des droits de l'homme.
10.34 Cependant, je pense qu'il est difficile à l'Organisation de réagir efficace- ment dans ce domaine si elle ne dispose que des normes juridiques actuellement en vigueur. Nous souhaitons donc que les normes et procédures juridiques de l'Organi- sation soient améliorées pour lui permettre d'agir d'une manière efficace dans les limites de sa compétence.
10.35 Nous espérons qu'en attendant la démocratisation de la société de la Corée du Sud, l'Unesco prendra des mesures appropriées pour garantir le respect des droits de l'homme, soit en envoyant une mission d'enquête en Corée du Sud, soit en suspendant les activités internationales et régionales de l'Unesco en Corée du Sud.
10.36 La réunification du pays est l'aspiration suprême et unanime de tout le peuple coréen. La nation coréenne est une nation homogène qui a créé une histoire millénaire avec une seule culture et une seule langue. Elle ne pourra jamais vivre divisée en deux. Le peuple coréen finira par réaliser de façon indépendante et pacifique, la réunification de sa patrie pour mettre fin le plus rapidement pos- sible à la tragédie de la nation et mieux contribuer à la réalisation des idéaux de l'Unesco grâce à ses énergies réunifiées.
10.37 Monsieur le Président, avant de terminer, je voudrais préciser quelques points. Alors que nous avons dit quelques vérités sur les violations des droits de l'homme en Corée du Sud, un orateur sud-coréen s'est entêté à faire valoir qu’ elles échappent à la compétence de l'Unesco et que leur évocation constitue une ingérence dans les affaires intérieures de la Corée du Sud, et même à les nier.
10.38 Si l'on ne considère que le Plan à moyen terme approuvé par la Conférence générale à sa dix-neuvième session qui fait du respect et de la promotion des droits de l'homme le premier des objectifs de l'Unesco, comment peut-on soutenir que l'Unesco n'a pas de compétence en matière de droits de l'homme ?
10.39 Au moment oll le monde entier condamne les violations des droits de l'homme en Corée du Sud, les arguties des Sud-Coréens sur l'ingérence, dont ils seraient victimes, constituent un grave affront à toute la communauté internationale.
10.40 Condamnant les violations des droits de l'homme en Corée du Sud, Amnesty international et la Commission des droits de l'homme de l'ONU ont récemment décidé d'envoyer en Corée du Sud des missions d'enquête. M. Muskie, secrétaire d'Etat des Etats-Unis, et les premiers ministres du Japon et de la République fédérale d'Alle- magne, ainsi que les ministres des affaires étrangères des pays de l'Europe du Nord ont condamné les autorités sud-coréennes pour la peine de mort prononcée dans le cas de M. Kim Dae Joong, ex-candidat à la présidence de la Corée du Sud. Eux aussi s'ingèrent-ils dans les affaires intérieures de la Corée du Sud ?
10.41 Alors que nous évoquons certaines de leurs violations des droits de l'homme, les autorités sud-coréennes nous accusent de faux. Est-ce que la presse, les médias mondiaux et des milliers de témoins ont eux aussi diffusé de fausses nouvelles ? Nous pourrions présenter ici, à l'intention des distingués délégués, des images horribles des massacres de Kwangdjou - photos, films documentaires, etc. - prises par les correspondants étrangers. Quelques soient leurs arguties, les autorités sud-coréennes ne pourront jamais cacher ces abominables massacres et elles ne pourront jamais éviter leur condamnation indignée par le monde entier. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
11: The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the delegation of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and I given the floor to H.E. Mr Dominique Boungouere, Minister of Education of Gabon and head of the Gabonese delegation.
12.1 M. BOUNGOUERE (Gabon) .- Monsieur le Président, c'est pour moi un grand honneur et un réel plaisir de présenter a М. Ivo Margan, au nom de la délégation gabonaise et en mon nom person- nel, nos sincères et chaleureuses félicitations à l'occasion de sa brillante élec- tion à la présidence de la vingt et unième session de la Conférence générale. Nous sommes convaincus que ses qualités personnelles, sa grande expérience des ques- tions internationales et sa connaissance étendue de l'Organisation, liées à la haute estime et à la considération dont jouit son pays, la Yougoslavie, avec le- quel le Gabon entretient d'excellentes et fructueuses relations d'amitié et de coopération, lui permettront de continuer à présider nos délibérations avec le plus grand succès. En lui adressant ces félicitations, ma délégation, qui se ré- jouit de la décision de tenir la présente session à Belgrade, voudrait d'ores et déjà l'assurer de sa loyale et active coopération dans l'esprit de la politique de non-alignement à laquelle mon gouvernement comme celui de son pays sont attachés.
12.2 Monsieur le Président, je vous demanderai de bien vouloir transmettre aux autorités yougoslaves nos félicitations pour la remarquable organisation des tra- vaux qui se déroulent dans des conditions particulièrement satisfaisantes pour tous et les remerciements de la délégation gabonaise pour l'hospitalité qu'elles nous offrent.
12.3 Nous tenons par la même occasion à adresser un respectueux hommage à la mé- moire du maréchal Josip Broz Tito qui durant près d'un demi-siècle présida aux destinées de la Yougoslavie et fut un des fondateurs du Mouvement des non-alignés, mouvement auquel notre pays accorde une attention particulière.
12.4 Qu'il me soit également permis de rendre un hommage mérité aux membres du Conseil exécutif qui ont aidé de leurs conseils le Directeur général de notre Orga- nisation dans la lourde tâche qui est la sienne et qu'il a à coeur d'assumer pleinement.
12.5 Je ne saurais clore ce chapitre sans adresser à M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow nos chaleureuses et fraternelles félicitations pour sa brillante réélection au poste de Directeur général de notre Organisation. En lui renouvelant notre confiance, nous avons tenu à lui exprimer, par cet acte, toute notre appréciation des émi- nents services qu'il a rendus à la cause de la paix et de la compréhension entre les peuples et les nations. Cet éloquent témoignage de satisfaction est sûrement le plus bel hommage qui puisse être rendu à un homme de devoir comme lui qui, de par ses fonctions, incarne aujourd'hui, aux yeux du monde, les aspirations et les espérances de l'humanité.
12.6 Monsieur le Président, nous restons convaincus que le Directeur général con- tinuera à consacrer tous ses efforts à la communauté internationale, en vue de    renforcer les chances de paix dans le monde et de donner à l'Unesco la place et le rôle qui lui reviennent. Tous nos voeux de succès l'accompagnent dans l'accomplis- sement de son second mandat.
12.7 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, la délégation gabonaise est heu- reuse que l'Organisation se soit enrichie, depuis la dernière session de la Confé- rence générale de nouveaux Etats. Il s'agit d'abord de la République du Zimbabwe dont l'indépendance constitue une étape essentielle dans le processus d'élimina- tion complète du colonialisme et de la discrimination raciale en Afrique, et dont le Gabon a soutenu la lutte. Sa présence parmi nous constitue une consécration historique et significative de l'invincibilité des peuples luttant pour leur li- berté et leur dignité. Nous souhaitons à cette République soeur la plus cordiale des bienvenues et l'assurons de notre volonté d'oeuvrer pour le développement de notre coopération dans tous les domaines. C'est dans cette optique que nous avons récemment établi des relations diplomatiques avec ce pays au niveau d'ambassadeurs résidents. Il s'agit également de la Guinée équatoriale et de Sao Tomé-et- Principe, nos voisins immédiats auxquels nous sommes liés par des liens multi- formes. Il s'agit enfin du Royaume des Tonga, du Botswana, de Sainte-Lucie, de la Dominique et des Maldives, pays avec lesquels nous menons au sein du groupe des ACP la même lutte pour l'instauration du nouvel ordre économique international. Par l'admission de ces nouveaux Etats, l'Unesco se rapproche de plus en plus de
1'idéal d'universalité que lui assigne son Acte constitutif.
12.8 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, le débat de politique générale auquel nous avons l'honneur de prendre part au cours de chaque session de notre Conférence générale est l'occasion pour chacun des Etats membres ici réunis de s'interroger sur le rôle et l'action de notre Organisation dans la solution des grands problèmes que la communauté internationale affronte depuis des décennies. Ce débat nous permet ainsi de mesurer périodiquement le chemin parcouru dans l'ap- plication des principes fondamentaux de notre Organisation et les efforts accom- plis pour atteindre les objectifs fixés, qu'il s'agisse de la paix et de la con- corde internationales, des grands défis économiques et socioculturels, des droits de l'homme ou encore de la coopération et de la solidarité internationale.
12.9 En effet, ainsi qu'il est rappelé dans le rapport d'ensemble à l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies sur les progrès réalisés, dans les domaines de compé- tence de l'Unesco, sur la voie de l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique in- ternational ainsi que sur les éléments qui y font obstacle, rapport établi par le Conseil exécutif à sa 109e session. L'Unesco apporte "sa contribution pleine et entière à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international dans les do- maines de sa compétence et cela sur deux plans : par l'étude, la réflexion, la diffusion des connaissances sur la conception d'un nouvel ordre économique inter- national, ainsi que les études des facteurs susceptibles d'entraver ou de favo- riser les efforts visant à l'instaurer ; par l'orientation, l'adaptation et le renforcement de son programme dans le sens des objectifs du Programme d'action {toncernant l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre ordre économique international/".
12.10 C'est pour cette raison que nous apprécions les efforts que l'Organisation déploie pour promouvoir la paix et la concorde entre les nations, ainsi que pour participer au développement des pays en voie de construction que nous sommes.
12.11 Il ne fait pas de doute que dans ce contexte, l'éducation joue un rôle pri- mordial. Aussi, le Gabon souscrit-il pleinement aux recommandations et résolutions qui demandent aux gouvernements d'établir des programmes scolaires qui permettent de dénoncer les mythes, les théories philosophiques, les idéaux ou les pratiques fondés sur les distinctions tenant à l'appartenance ethnique, à la nationalité ou à la race. Pour ma part, je puis vous assurer, Monsieur le Président, que mon pays a décidé d'incorporer à ses programmes d'enseignement non seulement les mesures prises par le système des Nations Unies pour lutter contre le racisme et les pré- jugés raciaux, mais encore tout élément propre à permettre de mieux comprendre et de mieux connaître les autres peuples. Il ne saurait en être autrement lorsqu'on connaît la diversité ethnique de notre jeune pays et l'impérieuse nécessité pour nous de fondre ces populations dans un même creuset pour réaliser l'unité nationale.
12.12 Nous sommes convaincus, Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, que l'introduction d'un tel enseignement à tous les niveaux de notre système éducatif est une contribution essentielle au dialogue positif que nous recherchons entre les nations et entre les peuples.
12.13 Monsieur le Président, si nous nous réjouissons du rôle moteur joué par l'Unesco dans la recherche de solutions aux problèmes de notre temps, il faut ré- péter avec force que ces efforts méritent d'être poursuivis ; d'autant que la si- tuation actuelle du monde reste extrêmement préoccupante en raison du comportement de ceux qui, ayant accumulé une impressionnante panoplie d'armes, entendent dis- poser du reste du monde par la force brutale et la coercition.
12.14 Le Gabon, pour sa part, a compris la gravité du problème de l'armement... Et tout un chacun voudra bien reconnaître ici que, soucieux de son développement économique et social, mon pays n'a jamais rien cherché d'autre que la protection légitime de son territoire.
12.15 Cette vision du problème nous a conduit à envisager d'introduire dans nos programmes d'enseignement à tous les niveaux - et ce dans le cadre de la réforme en cours de notre système éducatif réalisé, il faut le dire, avec le précieux con- cours de l'Unesco - des cours tendant à dénoncer la guerre, la course aux arme- ments, et à démontrer la liaison étroite entre le désarmement et le développement économique et social des pays en construction, dont les dépenses en armements pro- gressent, hélas, alors que les besoins essentiels des populations sont loin d'être satisfaits.
12.16 Qu'il me soit permis de rappeler dans ce contexte, à titre indicatif, que le monde a englouti en 1979, 480 milliards de dollars des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, soit 15.000 dollars par seconde, pour s'armer. Dans cette dépense globale, la part des pays en développement est passée en vingt ans de 4 à 14 3%, ainsi que l'indique dans une déclaration le Président de l'Institut de recherches sur la paix de Stockholm (SIPRI).
12.17 Monsieur le Président, il ressort de ce qui précède que les pays du Tiers Monde ont, en vingt ans, augmenté de 10 % leur consommation d'armes, ce qui re- vient à dire que les pays pourvoyeurs ont accru dans les mêmes proportions leurs profits, en exportant la mort et la désolation. N'eût-il pas été préférable pour eux d'obtenir une satisfaction morale en accroissant de manière substantielle leur aide en matière d'éducation, de science, de communication, de nutrition ou de soins de santé ?
12.18 Or, force nous est de constater que les pays développés, à l'Est comme à l'Ouest, sont loin d'avoir atteint l'objectif de 0,70 % de leur PNB consacré au développement. Et le rapport Brandt souligne, quant à lui, que l'équivalent de moins de 5 % de la somme globale dépensée en armements est consacré au développe- ment, alors que les dépenses militaires d'une seule demi-journée seraient suffi- santes pour financer un programme de l'Organisation mondiale de la santé en vue de l'éradication totale de la malaria et que le prix d'un avion de combat pourrait financer l'installation de 40.000 pharmacies de village. Le monde en développement a besoin de millions de tonnes de produits nécessaires à sa construction et non point de millions de tonnes d'armes pour sa destruction. C'est dans cette perspec- tive et dans celle du développement de nos pays que nous situons le rôle de l'Unesco dans la création d'une opinion internationale favorable à l'arrêt de la course aux armements et au passage au désarmement général et complet.
12.19 Le gouverment gabonais est d'autant plus conscient du rôle qui incombe à l'Unesco que c'est par la communication en tant que véhicule d'idées et de connais- sances, instrument d'échanges socioculturels agissant sur le mode de vie de l'homme et affectant son comportement, sa pensée et son langage, que nous pouvons atteindre cet objectif. En effet, les différentes conférences régionales consa- crées aux politiques de l'information et de ia communication, telle celle qui s'est tenue à Yaoundé pour la région Afrique en juillet dernier, ont permis de mettre en évidence les déséquilibres existant en matière de circulation de l'infor- mation, les disparités et les inégalités entre le Nord et le Sud dans ce domaine.
12.20 Ainsi que la délégation gabonaise l'a souligné à la vingtième session de la Conférence générale, il suffit pour se convaincre de la nécessité du changement de cet ordre établi que nous dénonçons, "de lire dans les manuels ou périodiques di- vers, de voir sur les moyens audiovisuels ou d'entendre dans les conversations, la présentation que l'on y donne systématiquement de certains pays, de certains peuples et qui, assimilée par des personnes non averties, est tenue hélas pour vérité objective". C'est pourquoi nous appuyons fermement l'action entreprise par l'Unesco dans ce domaine et qui vise, ainsi qu'il ressort notamment de la Confé- rence de Yaoundé et du rapport MacBride, à favoriser le progrès, à contribuer à l'amélioration de la compréhension entre les peuples pour le renforcement de la paix entre les nations.
12.21 Je voudrais dire une fois de plus, Monsieur le Président, que la diversité des cultures doit être perçue par tous comme une source de richesse et non point comme une source de conflits. L'absence de communication et de dialogue entre les nations, entre les peuples, que nous constatons et que nous déplorons n'est pas forcément due à une absence de moyens de communication, mais plutôt à un refus systématique du droit à la différence, au refus de s'accepter mutuellement tels qu'on est, et de transcender ces différences pour atteindre l'essentiel, à savoir l'homme. C'est la conclusion que l'on peut tirer des différents conflits qui dé= chirent le monde, qu'ils soient d'ordre confessionnel ou d'ordre politique, comme c'est le cas au Proche-Orient ; qu'ils soient d'ordre idéologique, comme dans le      Sud-Est asiatique ; qu'ils soient d'ordre racial comme ceux que provoque la poli- tique honteuse d'apartheid imposée par l'Afrique du Sud à des milliers de Noirs sur leur propre sol.
12.22 Nous dénongons cet aveuglement intellectuel quelles qu'en soient les vic- times, car l'homme, blanc ou noir, juif ou arabe, chrétien, animiste ou athée, communiste, musulman, a une seule et même aspiration au bonheur. Il faut dire que ce bonheur est lié non seulement à la satisfaction des besoins essentiels, d'ordre matériel ou spirituel, mais également, comme le souligne le Rapport d'ensemble établi par le Conseil exécutif à la 109e session, aux "transformations structu- relles", à "la suppression des inégalités, et notamment des situations de pauvreté les plus flagrantes", bref à "la poursuite des objectifs de justice et d'équité".
12.23 Malheureusement, ces exigences sont foulées aux pieds par ceux qui érigent en principe de gouvernement, la contrainte des peuples par le fer et par le feu. Le peuple arabe de Palestine, dont on nie le droit à l'autodétermination et à l'existence en tant que nation et dont on bafoue les valeurs culturelles profondes est là pour en témoigner. Nous ne saurions rester insensibles à son cri de déses- poir. C'est pourquoi son combat pour admettre la justesse de ses revendications est le nôtre. Aussi ne pouvons-nous qu'appuyer toute initiative heureuse visant à atteindre ce but. Il en va de même du peuple namibien dont la victoire finale sur les forces rétrogrades d'oppression est inéluctable, et de tous les autres peuples qui de par le monde luttent pour leur liberté !
12.24 Nous soutenons d'autant plus fermement les efforts de l'Unesco en matière de communication, et notamment les propositions et observations contenues dans les documents 21 C/5, 21 C/85 et 21 C/86 que les moyens de communication constituent un outil essentiel de notre unité nationale. On ne s'étonnera donc pas que le gou- vernement gabonais, qui attache une importance capitale à cette question, ait con- senti un effort considérable pour doter le pays d'infrastructures adéquates en la matière. Cet effort a porté tout d'abord sur les transports, comme en témoigne le grand projet ferroviaire en cours de réalisation au Gabon et qui doit permettre une plus grande intégration nationale, mais également, pour nous situer plus préci- sément dans l'optique de l'Unesco, sur les infrastructures de communication de masse, comme l'a souligné le chef de la délégation gabonaise lors de la Conférence intergouvernementale sur les politiques de la communication qui s'est tenue à Yaoundé en juillet dernier.
12.25 Dans ce domaine, les besoins prioritaires de notre pays portent sur la for- mation des personnels, le renforcement de notre capacité endogène de production de programmes et l'organisation de la diffusion vers les masses populaires, car en définitive tous ces efforts seraient vains si l'on ne s'attachait à l'essentiel, à savoir l'homme. Dans cette perspective, il s'agit d'atteindre toutes les couches de la population et de contribuer ainsi à renforcer l'intégration et la cohésion nationale, objectif premier de la politique de rénovation ‘instaurée depuis douze ans par le président El Hadj Omar Bongo. Il y a tout lieu de souligner que ce souci d'édifier une nation unie et prospère, dans le cadre de ce que nous appelons la politique du dialogue, fait que le Chef de l'Etat lui-même est à l'écoute perma- nente de la nation.
12.26 C'est pourquoi le Gabon attache une importance particulière à la presse écrite, et je veux dire, sans crainte d'être démenti, que si celle-ci véhicule parfois la pensée du gouvernement, elle n'ouvre pas moins largement ses colonnes à tous ceux qui veulent bien donner un point de vue constructif sur la gestion du pays. C'est ainsi que ceux qui ont visité le Gabon connaissent le journal sati- rique "Le patriote", qui ne ménage nullement ses remarques aux dignitaires de l'Etat, ou encore la rubrique Makaya dans le quotidien "L'Union" qui critique, de façon parfois acerbe, certaines réalisations du gouvernement.
12.27 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, notre Organisation, par voca- tion, s'attache également à la promotion des droits de l'homme. Dans ce domaine bien précis, il faut dire qu'il n'est pas un seul pays qui, à un moment ou à un autre de son histoire, n'ait été amené à prendre des mesures que la protection de l'Etat rendait nécessaire. Je peux cependant affirmer qu'il n'existe à l'heure actuelle au Gabon pas un seul détenu politique. Et le Chef de l'Etat a déclaré à maintes reprises qu'il était disposé à ouvrir nos prisons à ceux qui voudraient s'en convaincre.
12.28 A cet égard, permettez-moi de dire, Monsieur le Président, à l'intention de ceux qui auraient tendance à ne dénoncer les violations des droits de l'homme que lorsque les pays en développement s'en rendent coupables, que l'instauration du nouvel ordre économique international que nous voulons plus équitable, est aussi un droit fondamental de l'homme et une juste revendication du Tiers Monde.
12.29 Parmi les autres revendications de nos pays, il en est une qui revêt une importance capitale pour le développement économique et social. Il s'agit de la   mise au service du développement de la science et de la technologie. C'est à juste titre que le Directeur général de notre Organisation a déclaré à la veille de la CNUSTD, et parlant de l'Afrique, je cite : "Aucun des défits auxquels le continent est confronté ne peut être relevé sans que soit prise en considération la dimen- sion éducative, culturelle et scientifique".
12.30 Le Conseil exécutif ne tient pas d'autre langage lorsqu'il consigne dans son rapport à l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, établi à sa 109e session, je cite : "... le développement doit être conçu comme un processus qui intègre tous les aspects de la créativité sociale et qui permet d'utiliser les savoirs et les savoir-faire nécessaires à la maîtrise des ressources naturelles et à l'épanouisse- ment de tous les aspects de la vie. Dës lors, l'effort ne peut se limiter à viser la seule croissance économique : il doit porter également, et de manière intégrée, sur la promotion de la science et de la technologie, de l'information et de la communication, de l'éducation et de la culture ...".
12.31 Aussi, convient-il de se réjouir de la prise de conscience de l'importance croissante du secteur des sciences exactes et naturelles et de ce qu'elle se soit traduite, notamment dans le cadre du document 21 C/5, par une augmentation substan- tielle des crédits alloués a ce secteur.
12.32 Nous nous associons pleinement au Conseil exécutif lorsqu'il considère dans ce contexte que "les projets majeurs régionaux proposés dans le Projet de pro= gramme et de budget pour 1981-1983, ainsi que la poursuite et le renforcement des grands programmes de coopération scientifique internationale de l'Organisation constituent des contributions importantes 3 la mise en oeuvre du programme d'ac- tion de Vienne". C'est pourquoi nous souhaitons que le Fonds intérimaire des Nations Unies pour la science et la technique, créé à l'issue de la CNUSTD, parti- cipe aussi au financement des projets importants lancés par l'Unesco.
12.33 Il faut dire cependant que la participation des Etats membres à l'exécution de ces grands projets, dépend en grande partie des structures nationales d'ac- cueil. La République gabonaise, quant à elle s'est dotée d'un Centre national de recherche scientifique et technologique et de plusieurs instituts scientifiques spécialisés : Institut de recherches en écologie tropicale, Institut de recherche agronomique et forestière, Institut de recherche en sciences humaines, notamment.
12.34 C'est dire, Monsieur le Président, que le Gabon souscrit pleinement à toutes les actions scientifiques envisagées par l'Unesco, notamment celles rela- tives aux ressources minérales et énergétiques (objectif 7.1). Déjà, certains pro- jets sont en cours au niveau national, dans les régions de Makokou et de la Nyanga par exemple. Un programme plus ambitieux pour la période 1981-1987 sera consacré à la géologie, et dans ce cadre un inventaire minéral du pays portant sur une super- ficie de 114.000 km2 sera établi.
12.35 Nous pensons également au programme sur l'homme et la biosphère qui ren- contre l'adhésion totale de ma délégation. En effet, le Gabon entend tirer le meilleur profit de ce programme pour réunir des collections végétale et animale qui devraient faciliter l'initiation des jeunes à la connaissance et au respect de la nature. D'autre part, mon pays a présenté un certain nombre de projets, qui portent notamment sur l'inventaire des zones polluées du territoire national et l'identification des différents polluants dus aux activités humaines dans ces zones.
12.36 Je voudrais dire enfin, Monsieur le Président, que la nécessité de créer les conditions requises pour stimuler la créativité, et acquérir l'esprit scienti- fique, nous a amenés à multiplier les établissements d'enseignement technique et professionnel ainsi que les centres de formation professionnelle.
12.37 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, honorables délégués, nombre de questions inscrites à notre ordre du jour auraient mérité un traitement plus exhaustif de ma part ; mais nous pouvons vous assurer que ces questions fe- ront l'objet d'interventions nourries de la part de notre délégation, dans les débats en commission.
12.38 Nous espérons être à même d'apporter aux travaux de cette Conférence, sous votre clairvoyante direction, une contribution positive dans la sérénité qui siéd à de telles assises et réaffirmer ce faisant notre adhésion à l'Acte constitutif et aux nobles idéaux de l'Unesco.
12.39 La République gabonaise, son Président et son gouvernement, animés d'une foi inébranlable en la continuité du rôle planétaire et des activités multiformes de l'Unesco, n'entendent ménager aucun effort pour soutenir concrètement l'Organi- sation et son Directeur général en vue d'assurer par la concertation et le dia- logue l'avènement d'un monde meilleur, la promotion des droits de l'homme et des peuples, l'instauration du nouvel ordre économique international, la consécration de la justice et de la paix. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
13. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Gabonese delegation and I give the floor to Mrs S. Alexandrescu of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance.
(14.1) Mrs ALEXANDRESCU (Council for Mutual Economic Assistance) (Translation from the Russian) : Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, in the name of the Secretariat of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance, to greet those taking part in the twenty-first ses- sion of Unesco's General Conference and to express my conviction that its work will further the development of co-operation among countries in the fields of education, science and culture and contribute to strengthening peace and improving relations among states for the benefit of peoples throughout the world.
(14.2) By the same token, I should like to thank the Director-General of Unesco for his kind invitation to representatives of the Secretariat of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance to attend this session of the General Conference as observers and to congratul- ate him on his re-election to that post. The CMEA Secretariat regards the invitation to the present session as encouraging the ties between the Unesco Secretariat and the CMEA and hopes that they will continue to expand and grow stronger.
(14.3) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 1979 the Council for Mutual Economic Assist- ance, an intergovernmental economic organization, celebrated its thirtieth anniversary.
(14.4) The accomplishments of this period are convincing evidence of the fact that co- operation among CMEA member countries is becoming an increasingly important factor in developing their economies, in improving the welfare of their peoples and in evening out economic development levels.
(1475) The Council for Mutual Economic Assistance promotes extensive economic and scienti- fic and technical co-operation among CMEA member countries. The basic principles govern- ing co-operation are set forth in the Comprehensive Programme for the Further Expansion and Improvement of Co-operation and the Development of Socialist Economic Integration of the CMEA Member Countries, adopted by the XXV Session of the Council ten years ago.
(14.6) Scientific and technical co-operation is an integral part of the whole system of economic co-operation among CMEA member countries and is becoming an increasingly impor- tant factor in the development of scientific and technical progress in CMEA member countries.
(14.7) Recent years have seen greater emphasis placed on the role of long-term planning in co-operation among CMEA member countries and, in this connection, an integrated target and systems approach to the main problems of co-operation. In developing the principles of integrated co-operation programmes in the field of CMEA planning activities, long-term programmes of co-operation for key branches of the economy have been developed and CMEA member countries have begun implementing them. These programmes prescribe systematic ac- tion for the planned resolution of major national economic problems, providing details on financing, dates and organizational responsibility. Apart from economic projects, the long-term branch-oriented programmes cover 117 scientific and technical fields, including the fuel and power industries, raw materials supply, machine building, agriculture and the food industry, the production of consumer goods and transport. In planning scientific and technical co-operation among CMEA member countries, an important role is played by consultations on basic issues of scientific and technical policy which are of mutual in- terest, and the exchange of views on major trends in scientific and technical progress.
(14.8) In 1978, on the basis of information provided by CMEA member countries on their scientific and technical development levels and in accordance with recommendations of CMEA bodies and multilateral agreements for scientific and technical co-operation among CMEA member countries, the CMEA Committee for Scientific and Technological Co-operation, also availing itself of the findings of scientific and technical surveys, drew up a docu- ment entitled "Basic Trends in Scientific and Technological Co-operation among CMEA Member Countries up to the Year 1990 and the Anticipated Technological and Economic Implications" This document was used by CMEA member countries and other Council bodies in co-ordinating national scientific and technical plans for 1981-1985 and in drawing up plans for bilateral and multilateral co-operation for the same period.
(14.9) "Basic Trends in Scientific and Technological Co-operation..." covers 182 problems of science and technology relating to key branches of the national economy. Moreover, major concentration is on problems arising out of the long-term branch-oriented co- operation programmes.
(14.10) An important contribution was made to the practical implementation of the provi- sions of the Comprehensive Programme through the preparation of the Co-ordinated Plan of Multilateral Integration Measures by CMEA member countries. Work is now being completed on the preparation of a draft plan for the next five-year period.
(14.11) The Co-ordinated Plan covers large-scale multilateral integration measures pro- viding for joint work on construction projects and the creation of additional facilities and includes important provisions for the long-term development of international special- ization and co-operation in production and for the joint tackling of key scientific and technological problems. As compared with the current five-year plan, the plan for 1981-
1985 provides for additional joint action by CMEA member countries to accelerate the devel- opment and increase the productivity of the economies of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, the Republic of Cuba and the Mongolian People's Republic and for measures to ensure the spread and application of CMEA standards to interested CMEA member countries.
(14.12) In the course of the execution of the Comprehensive Programme, co-operation among CMEA member countries in the field of science and technology produced new results. I shall cite a few examples of the results achieved in this field over the past two years.
(14.13) In the field of atomic energy, activity was focused on the development of high- powered water-cooled nuclear reactors and automated reactor control systems. Research on structural materials for reactors was carried out, diagnostic cassettes were developed for measuring physical parameters within reactors and studies and calculations were made of stable and unstable systems.
(14.14) In the field of the coal industry, algorithms and programmes were developed that made it possible to reduce the man hours spent on the designing of mine shafts by three to five times and cut design costs by 20 to 25 per cent.
(14.15) Integrated regional geological and geophysical activities carried out in the Pacific Ocean produced important data on geological structures that made it possible to identify new sites for regional exploration.
(14.16) Further co-operation was registered among CMEA member countries in the study of chemical, physical and other processes relating to the World Ocean. Every year important international experiments are carried out at the "KamchiT" station on the Black Sea coast. The results find broad application in the fields of navigation, hydraulic engineering and resort building, environmental protection and the preservation of marine industries.
(14:17) In the field of environmental protection and improvement, some 1,200 scientific research and R&D projects have been completed, around 200 projects have already found industrial application, and the findings of others practical application in the develop- ment of standardized methods, standards, reference works and dictionaries. A number of steps have been taken to improve the sanitation of cities and resort areas. Technical facilities have been installed to protect and improve the environment like, for example, units to purify the flue gas of power stations, water-purifying plants of the "Biobloc" type, and others.
(14.18) In the field of scientific instrument-making, over 60 prototypes of modern in- struments and devices for scientific research have been developed.
(14.19) Co-operation among CMEA member countries in the training and advanced training of scientific personnel is steadily growing. Whereas in the period 1971-1975, CMEA member countries provided graduate-training courses or on-the-job training to close on
2,900 and 9,000 persons respectively from other CMEA countries, during the period 1976-
1980, the corresponding figures rose to 3,600 and 12,900. At the present time, 30 Standing Commissions and Co-ordinating Centres, established under the terms of CMEA scien- tific and technical co-operation agreements, incorporate the training and advanced train- ing of personnel in their work plans. Within the framework of that programme, some 80 joint activities are organized every year: seminars, symposia, scientific conferences, colloquia, courses, international summer and winter schools, trainee programmes and ex- changes, etc.
(14.20) Further progress has been registered in the matter of co-operation among CMEA member countries within the framework of the International Centre for Scientific and Tech- nical Information. The experimental operation of automated systems in international specialized subsystems has been introduced. International branch subsystems concerned with geology, light industry, machine building and medicine have been plugged into the network. At present, 19 international branch subsystems have been established and most of them are already providing services to users. A great deal of attention is being de- voted to the question of establishing links with world information systems.
(14.21) Ladies and gentlemen, the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance has established and is maintaining contacts with a large number of economic and scientific and technical organizations, in particular Unesco and the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, in connection with such urgent problems as the environment and the biosphere, the use of natural resources, the transfer of technology and the application of science and technol- ogy to development, scientific and technological forecasting methods, worldwide and regional co-operation in the field of fundamental and applied research, science policy and scientific and technical information, and advanced qualifications and training for scientific personnel. CMEA member countries and bodies are actively involved in important Unesco programmes such as, for example, its programme on Man and the Biosphere and the International Hydrological Programme.
(14.22) CMEA bodies systematically examine questions concerning the participation o£-in- terested CMEA member countries and bodies in the scientific and technical activities of international organizations and decide on specific action, issues and themes which lend themselves to co-operative undertakings with these organizations.
(14.23) I shall mention a single example in that regard. Of undoubted interest to Unesco's programme on Man and the Biosphere are the many studies and activities carried out under CMEA's "Comprehensive Programme for Environmental Protection". Unesco programmes are of equal interest to the CMEA. For the purpose of co-ordinating research and avoiding unneces- sary duplication of effort and ensuring the rational input of scientific manpower, MAB Na- tional Committees and CMEA Co-ordinating Centres and Standing Commissions have studied this question in detail. Practical recommendations have been made for co-ordinating the two programmes in CMEA member countries. These recommendations are reflected in CMEA's "Comprehensive Programme for Environmental Protection" for the period 1981-1985.
(14.24) Satisfactory progress is being made in developing co-operation between the CMEA and international organizations - Unesco in particular - in the field of the training and advanced training of scientific personnel. In recent years the CMEA Committee for Scienti- fic and Technological Co-operation has organized three international seminars in that field, which were attended by representatives of the Unesco Secretariat and specialists from a number of non-CMEA countries. The CMEA Secretariat has sent a selection of papers read at these seminars together with other material to Unesco and other international organizations.
(14.25) CMEA has acquired a great deal of useful experience in personnel training. CMEA member countries provide considerable assistance to developing countries in the training of national manpower and specialists in the developing countries themselves but also in CMEA member countries. Over 280 educational establishments have been, are being or are to be built in the developing countries with the assistance of CMEA member countries.
(14.26) CMEA higher and secondary specialized educational institutions have already pro- vided training to over 47,000 nationals of developing countries.
(14.27) In view of the growing needs of the developing countries for highly qualified specialists, the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance set up a fellowship fund in the academic year 1974/75. Since that time, institutions of higher education in CMEA member countries have awarded fellowships to around 3,000 students coming from 48 developing countries.
(14.28) Moreover, new industrial building, in the developing countries (over 4,600 build- ings have been or are being erected), made possible through the co-operation of CMEA mem- ber countries, is a real training ground for domestic manpower. In the course of such efforts, over 400,000 workers and engineers have acquired vocational or professional skills.
(14.29) By way of conclusion I should like to make it clear once again that our organiza- tion is determined, within spheres of its competence, to make its contribution to fostering co-operation between countries in the fields of education, science and culture.
(14.30) The signing of the Final Act of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe opened up broad prospects for co-operation among all European states. We feel that the high-level Conference on Environmental Protection within the framework of the Economic Commission for Europe of the United Nations, prepared by and convened at the initiative of the Soviet Union, is an important step towards implementing the provisions of the Final Act. The achievements of that Conference create favourable conditions for the next high- level all-European conference on energy and transport.
(14.31) Allow me to conclude my remarks by wishing the General Conference every success in achieving the noble goals of Unesco. Thank you for your attention.
15% The PRESIDENT: I thank the representative of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Said Altal, Minister of Education of Jordan and head of the Jordanian delegation.
(16.1) Mr ALTAL (Jordan) (Translation from the Arabic): Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, with your permission I should like first of all to offer, on behalf of my country's delegation, my warmest congratulations to the President of the General Conference on his election at this session, and through him, to greet the people of this great country, Yugoslavia, and its sagacious government. Yugoslavia is a friend of my own country, Jordan, and to my nation, the Arab nation, and to all countries that love freedom, progress and peace in the entire world, and I should like to express my thanks for the hospitable reception and welcome which our Conference has received.
(16.2) In this spacious and imposing Sava Centar, I find myself impelled to speak of the late President, Marshal Tito, whose great spirit lives among us yet as a shining eternal example to all peoples struggling for their liberation, progress and peace. In his example Unesco finds today, as it found in the past, fresh and unfailing support for its lofty prin- ciples and noble goals.
(16.3) We have lived with the "spirit of Nairobi", but today we can take pride in a new spirit, the "spirit of Belgrade", as we renew our covenant with the Director-General. We have always known Mr M'Bow to be a wise and upright man, one who is scrupulous in abiding by the principles of morality and reason, by the resolutions of Unesco's General Conference and by its Constitution, and one who fully understands Unesco's role in tracing the picture of the world of today and of tomorrow, a world based on the principles of truth, justice, freedom and equality. I congratulate Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow for the total support he re- ceived in the matter of his continuation as the Director-General of his Organization. I am confident that this represents a reliable guarantee that this Organization will con- tinue to operate in accordance with its Constitution and that it will continue to seek consistently to apply the resolutions of the General Conference and constantly serve the needs of its developing Member States. And Jordan will always stand at Mr M'Bow's side to give effect to the Organization's lofty ideals and goals. We wish him every success.
(16.4) It also gives me great pleasure, on this occasion, to extend my heartiest congratu- lations to the new Member States which have joined the Organization at this twenty-first session of the General Conference: Botswana, Sao Tome and Principe, Dominica, Equatorial Guinea, Saint Lucia, Maldives, Zimbabwe, and the Kingdom of Tonga.
(16.5) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have carefully studied the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983 (document 21 C/5), and we have also followed the deliberations of the Executive Board on this matter at its 108th and 109th sessions. It is clear to us that the Draft Programme and Budget presented in document 21 C/5 stands out from its predeces- sors in a number of respects. Firstly, for the first time in the Organization's history, it covers a period of three years instead of two, the third year representing a transitional stage between the current Medium-Term Plan and the next Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989. Secondly, the desired concentration has been achieved in the form of the enrichment and integration of programmes and increases in their budget allocations amounting to as much as 70 per cent in some cases, such as the science and technology sector. And thirdly, priorities are directed towards meeting the needs of states, particularly developing states. All these features are found in all sectors of the draft programme.
(16.6) With regard to the education field, it is a source of satisfaction that such a pro- minent place is occupied by objectives related to technical and vocational education and integrated rural education, and to the links between education and work and employment. In this area, I should like to point out that Jordan has begun to concentrate on technical and vocational education at all levels. We have recently developed and applied a vocational education curriculum for the compulsory education stage, which covers the first nine years of the general education system. This curriculum is designed as a contribution to the students' preparation for life, after they leave school, and to help to guide them towards a suitable type of education beyond that level if their aptitudes and preparation are such as to enable them to do so. For the past two years and more, Jordan has begun to concen- trate, in particular, on special education for adults. It has adopted a system of parallel education which makes it possible for everyone who has not had an opportunity to continue with formal education to study the prescribed curricula in evening centres which the Min- istry of Education has opened. The student takes the examinations when they are given, along with his fellows in the regular school system. This experiment has been received with an increasing degree of acceptance and has been very successful. I should also like to applaud the support provided by document 21 C/5 for objectives related to the content of education and training with a view to dealing with the most complex problems faced by the developing countries, such as incessant population growth which leads to an increase in the number of children of school age. My country, Jordan, in which students represent approximately one-third of the population, has become greatly concerned with the pre- service preparation and in-service training of teachers, and the design of educational con- tent in accordance with the evolving needs of society and in the light of the "knowledge explosion", which is one of the distinctive features of the age we live in. We are doing this in an effort to face, simultaneously, a great expansion in education and its qualita- tive improvement.
(16.7) The programme emphasizes objectives pertaining to the individual's right to a genuine national education which accentuates his cultural identity, and this is one of the
18 most important characteristics of the education sector. It is saddening to note that in some parts of the world, most notably the occupied Arab territories, the occupying auth- orities are adopting various means to deny human rights and obliterate the cultural iden- tity of the inhabitants by mutilating and falsifying their curricula and textbooks. They are also passing unjust laws, the most recent of these being an amendment to the Jordanian education law conferring on the occupying authorities the power to interfere in educational institutions, particularly institutions of higher education. The authorities have recent- ly proceeded to close some of these and impede the educational process in others.
(16.8) Concerning the science and technology sector in the programme, the distinguishing features are concentration, clarity and functionality. The most prominent examples of this are the pioneering major regional projects in the area of science and technology which are outlined in the 21 C/5 document. I should like to make particular mention of the regional project on the rational use of water resources in the Arab states. The pro- gramme also features greater attention to science and technology and their application to development, and the strengthening of indigenous scientific and technological capability in the developing Member States. This is clearly in response to the conclusions reached by the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development which was held in Vienna.
(16.9) With regard to the social sciences, we feel that the seven objectives adopted in the 21 C/5 document are adequate to incorporate and crystallize the two resolutions per- taining to the social sciences which were adopted by the twentieth session and the recom- mendations of the committee of experts. However, it is noteworthy that only small budget allocations have been made in this important sector, which is one most closely associated with people's lives and their relations to society.
(16.10) In the culture and communication sector, there has been study of a number of key issues that have arisen and still arise. The first of these questions is the separation of culture from communication. We feel that it is feasible to look at them as two distinct activities, the first of them being characterized by a relative degree of stability; it is a static and continuing factor in the life of societies, built up in the course of histori- cal experience, whereas the second is dynamic, changing, in a constant state of flux; it is dominated by the evolution of media and communication equipment. Despite all this, it ap- pears to us that it would be more appropriate to leave this question to be raised in the forthcoming debates on the next Medium-Term Plan. The second question that arises in the culture and communication sector pertains to the results of the work of the International Commission on Communication and the deliberations and findings of the Intergovernmental Conference on Communication Development, Activities, Needs and Programmes. After that con- ference and after publication of the MacBride Commission's report, we support the way Unesco is handling the problems, needs and priorities of communication, namely by concen- trating on development of the basic structures, the flow of information, training, and development of the necessary technology and equipment in the developing countries. Serious, adequate exchanges between states in these matters will serve to reduce the information gap between the developed and the developing countries. The resolutions of the conference just referred to bring out the desirable basic features of international co-operation in communi- cation, such as the establishment of an international fund under Unesco's supervision to encourage the development of communication and the creation of appropriate programmes for that purpose, along the same lines as other programmes, these programmes to be directed and co-ordinated by an intergovernmental council with balanced geographical distribution in its membership.
(16.11) To conclude my discussion of the draft programme and budget, I must praise the preparations now under way to draft the next Medium-Term Plan. This is a subject which is certainly important enough for a special conference to be devoted to it, as the Director- General points out in his Introduction. I am happy to announce that Jordan supports such a conference and wishes to participate in it at all levels.
(16.12) Reverting to the culture and communication sector, Jordan notes with approval the appearance of objective 7.6 on the preservation and presentation of the cultural and natu- ral heritage and objectives 1.1 and 1.2 on respect for human rights and appreciation and respect for cultural identity, which we have always regarded as one of Unesco's main areas of competence. Unesco's desire to see the implementation of the objectives and resolutions pertaining to cultural institutions in Jerusalem has always been a prominent aspect of the Organization's work, as exemplified in various General Conference resolutions and Execu- tive Board decisions calling upon Israel to obey them and to desist from its hasty opera- tions designed to alter the cultural characteristics of the Holy City. Israel, however, has always persisted with its Judaization operations in all areas of life, disregarding anything said by the world community or Unesco about the human rights or the cultural iden- tity of the Palestinian Arab people. A person's culture is the most important factor in preserving that person's identity and humanity. Israel, ladies and gentlemen, arrogantly demands that the world community close its eyes to what it is doing in Jerusalem: destroy- ing monuments, changing the city's features, making it all Jewish in all aspects of its life. We and our fellow Arab states have warned the world of the plan which Israel is im- plementing, but the reply from some quarters has always been silence about these acts. And here we are today, faced with the situation which has been forcibly and unjustly im- posed, as illustrated in the proclamation that the unified city of Jerusalem is Israel's capital. Ladies and gentlemen, Israel has expelled approximately half the Palestinian people from their homeland and has pursued them into other parts of the world, killing them, exterminating them wherever they can be found, and it is seeking today to kill that people's noblest possession, its culture and its national education. In doing all this, Israel forgets that by the logic of history victory belongs to the side that is in the right, however long it may take and however large the number of victims may be.
(16.13) Ladies and gentlemen, just a few days ago we applauded with great joy and happi- ness as the head of the delegation of Zimbabwe placed his country's flag on the platform
944         among the flags of the other Member States of this Organization to which we are all proud to belong and within the framework of which we are proud to work at the international level in the fields of education, science and culture. A few years ago, when the people of Zimbabwe were suffering from oppression, while their culture was being destroyed and their education mutilated and distorted, there were some states in this Organization which con- sidered that it was outside the scope of this Conference and beyond the responsibility of this Organization to examine the oppression of the great people of Zimbabwe, the destruc- tion of their culture, the mutilation of their education at the hands of the invaders who had occupied the territory of their country. Today, in the same way, there are those in this Conference who object to any examination of the oppression to which the people of Palestine and the people of Africa are being subjected, the destruction which is being in- flicted on their cultural heritage, the mutilation of their national education, on the pre- text that the examination of these matters is not within the purview of this Conference and this Organization.
(16.14) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: the principles upon which this Organization is based are those of truth, freedom, justice and equality. This Organization's mission is to concern itself at the world level with education, culture and science. The men who participate in this Organization's conferences, committees and work are distinguished, with- out the shadow of a doubt, by their knowledge, their trustworthiness, their honesty, their responsibility, their culture, their reason, their morality and their wisdom. In view of all this, Unesco is the very international organization whose primary duty it is to work by all possible means to defend human freedom and dignity whenever it is in danger from oppression, and to preserve the human cultural heritage and education from the ravages of those who would plunder, distort or falsify them, whenever the people to whom these things belong suffer occupation by unlawful, usurping force. The freedom and dignity of every human being, the cultural heritage of every people, are as you know, ladies and gentlemen, absolutely fundamental aspects of culture, and consequently they fall within the purview of this Organization's responsibility and duties. The dignity and the freedom of every individual in occupied Palestine, and every native person in South Africa, are trampled upon daily, and their national cultural heritage is destroyed and their education falsified. It is the duty of this Organization, which, as I said earlier, is the guardian of human dig- nity and freedom and the guardian of man's heritage and education, to take a resolute stand against this flagrant aggression and to work by every means to put a stop to it.
(16.15) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: history through the ages has taught us a valu- able lesson which we can never forget, and by which we must always be guided: it is that wars (which begin in the minds of men, as the Preamble to the Unesco Constitution reminds us) arise between states as a result of the fact that those minds are subjected to the for- ces of exclusion, persecution, violence, discrimination, bias, and aggression against legi- timate rights. In other words, wars break out as a result of the denial of the principles of freedom, truth, justice and equality, which is to say, a denial of the fundamental prin- ciples upon which Unesco is based. World peace, which in our day is incessantly threatened, cannot come about or continue until the defences of peace have been constructed in the minds of men, as the Preamble to the Unesco Constitution also says. The defences of peace are the principles of freedom, truth, justice and equality. Furthermore, in appealing, as Arabs, to the states and peoples of the world to look and see the assault against the de- fences of peace that is taking place in the land of Palestine today, as for example in the denial of the freedom and dignity of the Palestinian individual and the mutilation of his culture and heritage - in making this appeal we are not asking those states and peoples to stand with us against anyone; we are asking them in all sincerity, honesty and objectivity to take a stand in favour of the absolute principles of truth, justice, freedom and equal- ity in order to strengthen the defences of peace on which our Organization is built-
(16.16) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: if God will, we shall soon stand, with the help of Unesco and other international organizations working to implement the principles of truth and equality, and with the help of men of principle, morality and reason in the world, we shall soon stand, together with all those who are here today, joyfully and hap- pily applauding as the people of Palestine and South Africa place the flags of their res- pective countries among those of the Member States of this Organization, after they have previously raised them on the soil of their homelands. Thank you for your patience, and peace and the mercy and blessing of God be upon you. (Mr Olaniyan, Nigeria, took the Chair)
17. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Jordanian delegation and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Alhaji Dembo Jatta, Minister of Education, Youth, Sports and Culture of The Gambia, and head of the Gambian delegation.
18.1 Mr JATTA (The Gambia): Mr President, Mr Director-General, honourable ministers, distinguished dele- gates, ladies and gentlemen, may I first of all, on behalf of my government, the people of The Gambia and my delegation to this twenty-first session of the Gen- eral Conference, congratulate Mr Ivo Margan, through you, on his recent election to the presidency of our General Conference. May I further extend heartfelt and sincere congratulations to a friend and brother, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, on his unanimous re-election to the highest office of Director-General of our Organiza- tion and to wish him every success. Mr President, we know how difficult it is to be at the head of a vast international organization like Unesco and yet to be so well acquainted with the problems of, say, the smaller Member States like The Gambia. Indeed we find this particular quality of Mr M'Bow to stand above his   other innumerable qualities, and we have no doubt that he will strive even harder during his new term of office to enrich his experience. Mr President, I therefore wish to place on record the appreciation of the Gambian delegation for the untir- ing efforts of the Director-General in advancing the goals of Unesco. I also wish to convey, through the President of the General Conference, to the hospitable people of Yugoslavia and to all delegates at this session the greetings and best wishes of the President, the Government and the people of the Republic of The Gambia.
18.2 Mr President, we in The Gambia are becoming more and more concerned about the grave problems which confront mankind today, especially in the developing countries. Problems relating to inflation, unemployment, poverty, political op- pression,” racism and cultural stagnation continue to bedevil and frustrate all efforts aimed at creating a harmonious and proper atmosphere for international understanding and peace. We ‘are; however, comforted by "the fact “that Unesco is paying active attention to most of these thorny issues which fall within its com- petence, with a view to finding concrete and lasting solutions to them. Mr Presi- dent, my delegation believes that, as Member States of this Organization, we should play our full part in this by offering our unswerving and concerted commit- ment to the ‘creation of a new social order. We are fully convinced that each Mem- ber State can contribute - in however small a way = by educating its children to become instruments of change and creators of peace and progress.
18.3 Permit me, Mr President, to elaborate briefly on our national educational goals, which in a way also represent our contribution to the wider field of inter- national economic, social and cultural co-operation. My government gives top priority to the education sector, as illustrated by its increasing annual share of the national budget which that sector receives. The Gambia is a small country in West Africa of about 10,400 square kilometres with an estimated total population of approximately 600,000 this year. The school-age population amounts to 26.4 per cent of the total population, but the actual number of children attending school is. only 30 per cent of this population. Like most sister developing countries, the number of children eligible for admission to primary school far outstrips the available school places, and this notwithstanding my government's conviction that education, particularly at the primary level, should be adapted to the country's pattern of life in order to ensure not only the survival of the soceity but also the realization of the country's socio-economic development goals. It is our firm belief that the preparation of children for effective integration into the social, cultural and economic development of The Gambia is a basic priority and necessity. It will not only enhance the cultural integration of our different ethnic groups but also develop a firm and steady society properly equipped to grapple with the immense problems involved in the transformation of a rural economy.
18.4 Several plans and strategies are being drawn up, including further refine- ments in the new curriculum, new approaches in teaching, and reoriented teacher- training programmes, so that the new learning techniques in the primary schools will enable the recipients to transform their environment. It is our hope that this new approach, which is designed to make our educational system more relevant to national development and social objectives and priorities, will eventually bring about substantial changes in the economic and social structure of The Gambia, and that the rural-urban migration phenomena will be brought to a halt before it as- sumes even more worrying proportions. We also expect an appreciable reduction in the potential unemployment rate. My delegation is conscious of the fact that un- employment is not a preoccupation of the educational sector alone, but concerns the enñtirevadministrative machineryi of (theination.:FTf ve arectoexpect a peacs= ful and contented society, it is the responsibility of the government of each Member State to adopt and implement economic policies which would reduce the ap- parently increasing incidence of unemployment.
18.5 My government wishes to associate itself fully with the recommendations against discrimination in education embodied in the report of the Committee on Conventions and Recommendations, document 21 C/27. Our ten-year education pol- icy instrument 1976-1986 unequivocally states: "Each child should be accepted into the educational system without discrimination". This position is further strengthened to cover all levels of the educational system through an additional undertaking to the effect that "the provision of education to our children is their right and they must be exposed to it so that the opportunity for further and higher education is not barred to any child". In pursuance of this commitment, primary education in The Gambia became free but not compulsory exactly three years ago in September 1977, with the ultimate aim of making it compulsory when adequate school accommodation and facilities become available. The admission age to prim- ary school was also increased in 1976 from 6 to 8 years to ensure that children were receptive both physically and mentally to the courses offered. All efforts are being made to ensure that education, especially primary education, is avail- able to all children of school age throughout the country. The government is about to finalize negotiations with the United Nations Capital Development Fund to          construct additional classrooms for existing primary schools, particularly in rural 18 areas. This is expected to raise dramatically the number of school-age children who are actually attending school.
18.6 Mr President, the question of discrimination against women in education is also a very serious concern of my government. Our education policy instrument of
1961 to 1965 states that "more attention should be paid to girls" and this policy has been pursued unceasingly ever since. It will be appreciated, however, that traditional, cultural, and social values and religious beliefs still actias 'Ob~ stacles to the full implementation of this policy. Yet we are convinced that TE women in our society are to contribute significantly and effectively to human development, they must be educated and/or enlightened. The need to increase the numbers of girls attending school or participating in non-formal education activi- ties cannot therefore be over-emphasized. My delegation wishes fully to endorse the view of the meeting of experts on the evaluation and prospects of research and teaching related to women, held in Paris in May 1980, to the effect that women's studies should be both interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary since the specifi- city of the social condition of women encompasses all disciplines. All possible assistance that may be offered by Unesco in this field, through the organization of regional seminars or the sponsorship of participation by female educators in appropriate courses or programmes would be appreciated. On completion of their training, these women could return home to act as catalysts and provide leader- ship for the rest of the women.
18.7 We are equally aware of the important role which teacher education plays as an essential component of change in the field of education. Planning for the development, expansion and reorientation of the educational system must, of neces- sity, set the teacher in the forefront of this endeavour. As I have mentioned, Mr President, emphasis must be placed on the relevance of the education offered, so that it produces job-makers and not necessarily job-seekers, because of our own type of economic structure which has limited job opportunities. My government therefore urges Unesco to explore possibilities of securing appropriate expertise in innovative education and the general reorientation of existing educational sys- tems, in order to assist states which may wish to modify and increase the effec- tiveness of their educational systems. We in The Gambia do not believe that edu- cation is simply what takes place in our schools; it is a lifelong process, and we expect our teachers to provide children with the skills to continue learning even after they have left school.
18.8 Arrangements are far advanced, Mr President, to establish a reconstituted non- formal education programme within my ministry. This was found necessary because of our increasing awareness that schooling has had a decreasing impact on the im- provement of the well-being of adult workers and local communities. Briefly, the new programme aims at mobilizing rural societies for effective participation in rural-based development programmes and encouraging national unity at the grass- roots level. The programme would also encourage the spirit of self-reliance (locally known as "Tesito") for the identification and solution of local problems at their source. Finally, the programme would be largely functional in that the skills and knowledge imparted to the youths and adults concerned would be directly related to their immediate needs in home management, nutrition, health, agriculture and other related interests. My delegation wishes to seize this opportunity ztorcex- press my government's appreciation to Unesco for the short-term assistance already negotiated for a consultant, whose task will be to articulate more Eully rour objec- tives in the field of non-formal education, and to advise us on the best method of implementing the programme.
18.9 Mr President, it is no secret that our nation is one of those which are less endowed with natural resources and favourable climatic conditions. While we are aware of the fact that the proposed programmes and projects, in addition to the orientation strategy as outlined, imply considerable human and financial re- sources which in our case are very limited, we still feel that in order to suc- ceed in achieving our social and economic aims and objectives at the national level, we have to increase the share of the annual budget devoted to educational/ training purposes. We shall have to make sacrifices for what we consider to be a great cause, namely the education of our people, so that they may be equipped to make their contribution to a new social order and to seek to alleviate the prob- lems of mankind. We hope that Unesco and other United Nations agencies concerned will continue and even accelerate their technical, human and financial assistance in promoting our national efforts in the field of educational development. In this respect, Mr President, allow me to take this opportunity of expressing through you, my government's appreciation and gratitude to the World Bank for its assist- ance, most particularly in the field of education. We are further encouraged to note that the first education project with which Unesco is associated, and which began in 1978, is due to be completed by 1983, and may be shortly followed up by a second education project, the details of which are yet to be negotiated.
18 18.10 It is our view that the Director-General should be given all possible sup- port and encouragement in redoubling the quest for new ways and means of mustering additional financial resources for Unesco's programme, the strategy for which is set out in document 21 C/19. We further express our sincere hope that additional resources will be forthcoming to enable our Organization to assume more effective- ly its operational responsibilities. In this regard Mr President, we would like to place on record our full support for the Director-General's proposed measures to solicit co-operation with foundations pursuing activities in Unesco's fields of competence, as indicated in document 21 C/95.
18.11 Mr President, we note with satisfaction the report of the Director-General on the findings of the International Commission for the Study of Communication Problems (document 21 C/85), and wish to underscore the importance of delivering appropriate and unbiased information to communities that are predominantly il- literate. We believe that such information should be simplified and adapted to the immediate realities of such communities, while at the same time retaining its objectivity. Such a task requires dedicated, trained manpower. We are convinced that it will be through the adequate training of communication personnel that we shall obtain maximum results from our endeavours to educate our people, to inform them of government objectives and aims and their rights and obligations and - last but not least — to ‘entertain them with local music and sporting activities. We are becoming increasingly aware of the fact that the communication of information should be treated as an integral part of the development process in the fulfilment of people's needs and aspirations as they relate to governmental objectives and aims for social and economic development. While promoting this particular voca- tion, my government is nevertheless ‘fully committed to the freedom of the press, as has been amply demonstrated. We therefore hope that Unesco will explore new ways and means of providing trained personnel in the field of communication, in order to provide an adegaute and suitable base on which the majority of our popu- lation may build an atmosphere of peace and stability within the overall frame- work of the development process.
18.12 The cultural heritage of a people, Mr President, has significant importance for the destiny of any given nation. Collectively, the preservation and promotion of culture at the subregional and regional levels can also serve as a stepping- stone to international understanding, to peace and to the dignity of mankind, and should therefore be a priority consideration of each sovereign Member State. Our cultural history in The Gambia dates as far back as the fifth century, when most of the Senegambian area was part of the Ghana Empire, whose rulers came from the Sarahuly ethnic group and whose descendants may be found in The Gambia today. This cultural history came into sharp focus in 1587 when the British started trading from a fort on James Island which was later used in 1807 to stop the illicit traf- fic in slaves. Today, the promotion of our cultural heritage has both social and economic benefits. While, on the one hand, we are enhancing the dignity and free- dom of all our people by increasing the mutual appreciation of the cultures of the various ethnic groups in The Gambia, on the other hand the economic benefits accruing from the tourist industry attracted by our cultural heritage should re- ceive the government's full attention and the widest publicity. Dependent as we are on one main crash crop, groundnuts, the tourist industry is fast becoming our second foreign exchange earner, besides providing increased job opportunities for people in urban areas. My government would therefore appreciate assistance in the further development and refinement of our rich cultural assets which are presently not yet fully exploited and explored. More research in oral traditions, and the promotion of cultural activities such as music and traditional dances, are activi- ties that need professional encouragement and publicity. We note with specific interest, Mr President, the report of the Director-General on the activities of the International Fund for the Promotion of Culture (document 21 C/88) and wish to express our hope that more funds will be contributed on a voluntary basis by both public and private organizations, and even by individuals. Subregional co- operation between those West African Member States which share a common historical heritage could undoubtedly benefit immensely from the assistance of interested international agencies in the field of education and culture.
18.13 Allow me, Mr President, to conclude my remarks by referring to an issue which has continued to exercise the minds of all people in the Member States, which has caused global unrest and which has complicated international relations - name- ly, human rights. My country's stand on this issue, Mr President, is well known. It is our firm belief that the individual has a fundamental and inalienable right to life, freedom of speech, assembly and worship, irrespective of his or her race, class, sex, or creed. We have consistently championed the cause of human rights in our relations with the outside world. It will be recalled that our President, H.E. Alhaji Sir Dawda K. Jawara, co-sponsored a resolution calling for the estab- lishment of an African Charter on Human and People's Rights at the Monrovia Summit Meeting of the Organization of African Unity in 1979. The recent convening in Banjul of the historic OAU Ministerial Conference on Human and People's Rights, at which a draft charter was presented, was a measure of The Gambia's regard for
948        such rights. In its unflinching determination to contribute effectively to the establishment of an African machinery that will promote respect for, and the pro- tection of these rights, our government has agreed to host the Second OAU Minis- terial Meeting to complete the study of the draft charter and submit a final draft text which, it is hoped, the African heads of states and government will adopt at their next session in 1981.
18.14 My delegation would whole-heartedly support the preparation of a convention on education and teaching in the field of human rights, to which reference is made in document 21 C/31. Our young generation, whether in the remotest rural areas of The Gambia or in the urban centres, ought to learn, appreciate, and consequently respect human and people's rights as part and parcel of their daily lives. They would in turn advance the cause of individual and general human rights from the national level, a spirit which we hope would then permeate the international scene. We appreciate Unesco's role in educating people in the developed and developing countries alike to appreciate each others' rights and responsibilities, in order to create more human understanding and a better world.
18.15 Mr President, we shall continue to seek the assistance of the more advanced nations and international agencies in our task of improving the socio-economic conditions of our people. Global economic interdependence demands that all coun- tries, whether large or small, must progress together in harmony and collectively in the struggle for social and economic progress, and that the developed countries should give a helping hand to the less-endowed countries.
18.16 Mr President, distinguished delegates, I thank you for your attention and hope that our deliberations will yield greater good for all nations.
19. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Gambian delegation and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Pertev Subasi, Ambassador, Permanent Delegate of Turkey to Unesco and head of the Turkish delegation.
20.1 M. SUBASI (Turquie) .- Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, je voudrais me joindre à ceux qui m'ont précédé pour féliciter M. Ivo Margan de son élection à la présidence de la Conférence générale, pour sa vingt et uniëme session. J'ai la ferme conviction que sous sa sage et impartiale direction, nous saurons trouver, dans nos débats, des solutions satisfaisantes aux problèmes multiples et importants dont la Conférence générale est saisie.
20.2 Je tiens également à exprimer mes félicitations au Directeur général et à ses collaborateurs pour l'excellente préparation de cette Conférence et pour la documentation substantielle qu'il a soumise à notre réflexion et à notre action.
20.3 La Conférence générale vient, à cette session, de confirmer solennellement le renouvellement du mandat du Directeur général. Je voudrais ici rendre hommage à l'homme dont la vaste culture, l'expérience particulière des questions d'éducation et la rigueur d'esprit toute scientifique en font un Directeur général idéal pour notre Organisation. Sous son égide, l'Unesco a acquis durant ces six dernières années une dimension et un dynamisme qui ont élargi ses horizons et ses domaines d'action.
20.4 J'ai la ferme conviction que dans les sept prochaines années également, le prestige et l'efficacité de l'Unesco ne cesseront de croître grâce à la vitalité que saura lui communiquer la forte personnalité du Directeur général. Le rapport préliminaire qu'il a soumis sur le Plan à moyen terme pour 1984-1989, dont nous approuvons les grandes lignes, contient les principes de cette action dynamique dirigée vers l'avenir.
20.5 Il est significatif que la première question de politique générale de notre ordre du jour soit celle de la contribution de l'Unesco à l'instauration d'un nou- vel ordre économique international. En effet, les injustices et les disparités Économiques et sociales du système ou plutôt du désordre économique international actuel qui provoquent en de vastes régions du monde la misère, la faim, le dénue- ment extrême et le désespoir doivent être examinés en priorité. Il est clair au- jourd'hui que la notion de nouvel ordre économique international dépasse de beau- coup le cadre du domaine économique et qu'elle revêt des dimensions scientifiques, technologiques, culturelles et éducatives. Elle est tributaire de l'information et de la communication, de l'échange et de la diffusion des connaissances.
20.6 Le Directeur général, dans son introduction, a exposé de manière magistrale les données fondamentales du problème, ainsi que l'interdépendance des domaines concernés et l'action passée, présente et future de l'Organisation. Nous souscri- vons entidrement 3 son analyse. Jamais l'avenir du monde n'a paru aussi menagant qu'aujourd'hui. C'est en cette période de crise qu'il faut prendre des initiatives
18 hardies et à longue portée et intensifier la coopération internationale afin de donner aux nouvelles générations des idées dont elles s'inspireront et des espoirs qui les encourageront.
20.7 Monsieur le Président, la préservation et le renforcement de la paix sont devenus aujourd'hui plus que jamais l'objectif majeur et prioritaire aussi bien de notre Organisation que de ses Etats membres. Le Directeur général a rappelé les principales contributions de l'Unesco à la paix dans son rapport sur le rôle de l'Unesco dans la création d'une opinion politique favorable à l'arrêt de la course aux armements et au passage au désarmement. De la lecture de ce rapport, on sort renforcé dans la conviction que "les fondements profonds de la paix ont leur siège dans l'esprit des hommes ; que le maintien et le renforcement de la paix reposent sur la connaissance, la compréhension et le respect mutuels". Je suis convaincu que pour arrêter la course aux armements et continuer à oeuvrer pour le désarme- ment, il faut agir très tôt sur les esprits. L'action éducative doit s'exercer dès les bancs d'école pour éliminer dans l'esprit des jeunes tout ce qui pourrait les conduire à l'intolérance, au fanatisme et à la haine.
20.8 Le rapport préliminaire sur le Plan à moyen terme montre qu'il subsiste dans les programmes scolaires, de nombreux éléments qui ne favorisent pas la compréhen- sion internationale et qui perpétuent des préjugés et des stéréotypes. Je crois qu'il est bon de le souligner. Ainsi, on présente encore aujourd'hui dans beaucoup trop de pays, tout au long de l'enseignement, une vision déformée de l'histoire. Certains pays, certaines nations, certaines religions y sont systématiquement, je dirai presque traditionnellement, présentés sous des traits qui leur font en quel- que sorte des incarnations du mal et de la barbarie. Or la méfiance et la peur qu'un tel enseignement engendre sont les éléments principaux qui font naître les menaces contre la paix. Il faut exorciser la méfiance à l'égard des intentions des autres ; il faut, comme vous l'avez remarqué, Monsieur le Directeur général, rompre le cycle de la méfiance en misant, résolument, sur la sagesse réciproque et la compréhension mutuelle entre les nations.
20.9 L'enseignement en faveur de la paix est enfin étroitement lié à la promotion et à l'enseignement des droits de l'homme. La Turquie attache une importance parti- culière à cet enseignement et à toutes les activités visant à une protection effec- tive de la dignité humaine. Un colloque international sur les fondements philoso- phiques des droits de l'homme ainsi qu'un séminaire régional de recyclage sur ces droits à l'intention des enseignants et chercheurs des pays de l'Asie et de l'Afrique se sont déroulés avec succès récemment à Ankara avec l'aide technique et financière de l'Unesco.
20.10 D'autre part, un séminaire a été organisé sous l'égide de la Commission nationale turque pour l'Unesco afin d'assurer la diffusion de la Déclaration sur les principes fondamentaux concernant la contribution des organes d'information au renforcement de la paix et de la compréhension internationale à la promotion des droits de l'homme et à la lutte contre le racisme, l'apartheid et l'incitation à la querre.
20.11 Compte tenu de la situation géographique de la Turquie et de ses liens his- toriques et culturels avec les pays des Balkans, du Moyen-Orient, de l'Afrique et de l'Asie, nous avons l'intention de faire en sorte que le Centre des droits de l'homme d'Ankara se transforme en un centre régional pour l'enseignement, la re- cherche et l'information dans le domaine des droits de l'homme et du droit humani- taire. Un projet de résolution à ce sujet sera soumis à l'approbation de la Confé- rence générale durant cette session.
20.12 Monsieur le Président, la Conférence générale avait approuvé lors de sa vingtième session, une résolution au sujet de la célébration du centenaire de la naissance d'Atatürk, reconnaissant le caractère universel 'de son oeuvre orientée dans le sens de la promotion de la paix, de la compréhension internationale et du respect des droits de l'homme. D'autre part, un colloque international sera orga- nisé en 1981, afin d'apporter une contribution à l'étude des différents processus de développement et de modernisation des Etats à travers l'examen des multiples aspects de la pensée et de l'action d'Atatürk et des significations qu'elles peuvent revêtir pour toutes les sociétés auxquelles les circonstances imposent des mutations profondes. Nous avons préparé à ce sujet aussi un projet de résolution qui sera soumis à votre approbation.
20.13 Nous vivons une période où des mutations se produisent dans tous les do- maines et je voudrais maintenant aborder le problème de la nécessité de transfor- mer profondément l'ordre actuel de l'information et de la communication. Comme le Directeur général l'a remarqué dans son introduction, il s'agit d'une part de réa- liser à l'échelon international un meilleur équilibre en matière de production et de diffusion de l'information, de telle sorte que les positions des pays en déve- loppement et leur manière de considérer les problèmes du monde puissent pleinement s'exprimer et être connues de l'ensemble de la communauté internationale. Il
950       s'agit d'autre part, pour les pays en développement, d'acquérir un potentiel suffi- 18 sant pour pouvoir à la fois participer aux flux internationaux de communication et d'information et pour mettre les moyens de communication et d'information au ser- vice de leur propre développement, notamment dans les domaines de la culture, de
1'éducation, de la science et de la technologie.
20.14 Je tiens aussi à féliciter le Directeur général pour l'organisation de la Conférence intergouvernementale de coopération sur les activités, besoins et pro- grammes relatifs au développement des communications, qui s'est tenu à Paris en avril dernier. Son succès lui doit beaucoup. Il est incontestable que l'Unesco est l'instance compétente pour organiser la coopération et le développement mondial dans le domaine de la communication. Et la Conférence de Paris l'a confirmé dans ce rôle.
20.15 Cette reconnaissance du rôle principal que notre Organisation doit jouer dans le domaine de l'information et de la communication a mis, je l'espère, un terme aux polémiques stériles sur les chevauchements entre organisations du sys- tème des Nations Unies.
20.16 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais aborder brièvement le problème de la contribution de l'Unesco à l'amélioration de la condition de la femme. Je tiens d'emblée à déclarer que nous approuvons dans son ensemble l'activité entreprise par l'Unesco, telle que le Directeur général l'a résumée dans son introduction. La Turquie a d'ailleurs fait l'objet de deux études dans ce domaine, l'une sur les programmes scolaires et les normes d'enseignement et de formation pour les garçons et les filles, et l'autre sur la condition de la femme dans ses rapports avec le développement et le comportement démographique. Quitte à y revenir lors des réu- nions de commission, je tiens à indiquer ici que nous sommes en faveur des re- cherches interdisciplinaires, notamment celles relatives ala participation des femmes Aa la vie active et aux processus migratoires, ainsi qu'aux conséquences démographiques de l'évolution technologique et économique, sous l'angle particu- lier de la structure de la famille, de la composition des ménages et du rôle de la femme.
20.17 Enfin, quelques mots en ce qui concerne la protection du patrimoine cultu- rel. Peu de pays au monde comptent sur leur territoire des vestiges de civilisa- tions aussi nombreux et aussi variés que la Turquie. Depuis la plus haute anti- quité, la situation géographique de la péninsule anatolienne, à la croisée de deux continents, en a fait un carrefour où les cultures les plus diverses se sont ren- contrées, superposées ou amalgamées. Il en est résulté une richesse culturelle dont la conservation et la restauration exigent des activités dont l'ampleur dé- passe les seules possibilités du gouvernement turc et exige une coopération inter- nationale. Aussi ma délégation a-t-elle décidé de soumettre à l'approbation de cette conférence un projet de résolution prévoyant l'élaboration de plans d'action en vue de lancer des campagnes internationales pour la préservation de l'héritage culturel et naturel de notre passé, notamment les monuments historiques d'Istambul et ceux de la région de Cappadoce.
20.18 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais d'autre part souligner L'utilite et l'in portance que revêtent pour l'exécution des programmes de l'Organisation les réu- nions régionales des commissions nationales pour l'Unesco ainsi que leur collabora- tion mutuelle. La Commission nationale turque est déterminée à fournir, comme par le passé, tout son appui pour que cette concertation et cette coopération se poursuivent.
20.19 Monsieur le Président, pour conclure, je tiens à féliciter le Directeur général pour la préparation du Projet de programme et de budget pour 1981-1983. Je constate qu'un effort considérable a été fait pour concentrer le programme, que la priorité a été accordée aux activités relatives à la science et à la technologie, que l'enseignement technique et professionnel a fait pour la première fois l'objet d'un objectif spécifique, qu'une structure nouvelle a été donnée au programme des sciences sociales, qu'un pas en avant a été fait vers la décentralisation. Je note aussi avec plaisir que la lutte contre l'analphabétisme bénéficie d'une attention accrue dans le programme et que l'accent est mis sur une approche globale asso- ciant l'alphabétisation des adultes à la généralisation de l'enseignement pri- maire. Je suis également heureux de constater l'intensification notable de-l'ac= tion que mène l'Unesco en vue d'augmenter les capacités nationales dans le domaine de l'enseignement des sciences et de la technologie et d'améliorer la qualité de cet enseignement. Le resserrement de la liaison entre l'éducation et le travail, grâce à l'attention particulière prêtée aux applications pratiques de l'en- seignement des sciences et de la technologie, constitue un des éléments importants de la stratégie du développement.
20.20 Enfin je note avec satisfaction qu'il est envisagé, dans le Projet de pro- gramme et de budget, de donner une nouvelle extension du programme d'éducation des travailleurs migrants, en assignant une plus grande portée au programme d'échange   d'éducateurs, et de contribuer à la préservation de l'identité culturelle des tra- vailleurs migrants et de leurs familles.
20.21 Il ne me reste plus qu'à souhaiter, Monsieur le Président, plein succès aux travaux de notre Conférence, dans cette ambiance si propice créée par la généreuse hospitalité du gouvernement et du peuple yougoslaves, dans cette ville historique de Belgrade, capitale de cette Yougoslavie moderne forgée par un grande homme d'Etat génial, le Maréchal Tito, dont l'esprit unificateur dans la diversité plane sur cette réunion et à la mémoire éternelle duquel nous rendons hommage. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
21. The" PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Turkish delegation and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Saoud Al Jammaz, Deputy Minister for Technical Affairs, Ministry of Education of Saudi Arabia, head of the Saudi Arabian delegation. YY)(ةيدوعسلاةيبرعلا)نامجلاديسلا‏ ةدايبمسلةئنهتلامدقأنأىدالبدفومسابىندعسي+دوفولاءاضعأوءاسؤرةداسلا»سيئرلاةداي ]3لوصولاليبسىفذهجنمةلذبيامهلاركاشءةرودلاهذهلاسيئرهباختنالماعلارمتؤملاسيئر Neueرمتؤملا Se VAS TELE JSريدقتلاوركشلاصلاخبمدقتأنا‏saldكتىذلافايضملاليمجلا‏pn‏
(22.1) Mr AL JAMMAZ (Saudi Arabia) (Translation from the Arabic): Mr President, distinguished delegates, on behalf of the delegation of my country, it gives me great pleasure to congratulate the President of the General Conference on his election as President of this session and to thank him for the efforts he has made to help this Conference reach its goals. It also gives me great pleasure to express my sincere thanks and esteem for the kindness demonstrated by his beautiful country, our host country, in welcoming this Conference and making every facility available to us.
(22.2) Mr Director-General, the representatives of various delegations who have spoken be- fore me have offered you their congratulations on your re-election and have told you at length and most sincerely how deeply they and those whom they represent are moved in con- sequence. 1 have nothing to add, except to offer my congratulations to this Organization in re-electing you as its Director-General. With your well-known sincerity, your wise leadership and your courage in the cause of truth and Justice, this Organization will keep to its course and will achieve its objectives, God willing.
(22.3) Mr President, our delegation has had the honour of examining the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983; we have also examined the Director-General's report on the Medium- Term Plan and the various other documents which we are discussingin the course of this Con- ference. We have also had the honour of listening to both the Director-General and the Chairman of the Executive Board. We support the draft programme and budget, which is for the most part closely related to previous projects. I should like to extend my thanks to the Chairman and the other members of the Executive Board and to all those working in the Organization, most notably Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, for the efforts which they have put into the preparation of these documents.
(22.4) Mr President, my country's delegation understands how much harm arises from illi- teracy, that social, economic, political and even human injury which is still being done to mankind, and consequently we greatly esteem and are prepared to devote all our attention to the first theme in the draft programme concerning ways and means of implementing the principle of democratization of education, and adapting education to the requirements of different peoples with a view to developing their cultural, social and economic potential. In our country we have striven unceasingly to achieve precisely this, and with God's help we have made excellent progress. We have approximately 80,000 schools now, and this year our seventh university was opened. We have approximately 1,500,000 students, of whom some
40 per cent are women below the university level and some 27 per cent are women at the university level. We have also embarked on a series of radical changes in our examination systems and curricula and in teacher education and training. We have introduced new sub- Jects in the curricula of the academic secondary schools, including computer science, ap- plied sciences, statistics and economics. In addition, we have been working very hard to set up special institutions to accommodate the handicapped; we now have twenty institutions for the blind, the deaf and the mentally and emotionally retarded. ions of the draft programme concerning science el that these are in line with the needs of the
(22.5) Mr President, with respect 1e sect and technology and the social scien e world, particularly the developing « ntri . We are confident that these two sections of the draft programme will enjoy the ntion and support of all participants.
(22.6). With re > the field of ci 1 nd communication, our delegation is aware of the importance of th ft programme 1 supports the Organization's efforts to ar- rive at a formulé he establishment of new world communication order characterized by justice, balance an } ctivity:
(22.7) Lastly, Mr President, I should like to refer to an issue which has been dealt with by a number of speakers before me, and. that is the issue © eace and Unesco's contribu- tion to the establishment of peace. As was pointed out by my friend, the honourable head of the delegation of Sri Lanka, Unesco's contribution to the establishment of peace among mankind is fundamental to all the programmes and all the work of the Organization. How- ever, the establishment of peace requires a solid foundation consisting of justice. Peace can be established, love can grow and brotherhood reign only in justice. Love, Mr Presi- dent, does not grow when it is watered with the blood of i 1ocent people, nor can brother- hood reign when populations are being expelled, and peace cannot become established when the racist colonialism of imperialism is occupying lands and destroying cultures, as is happening in Palestine and in South Africa. Jr Mr President, like other international organizations, is called upon to stand behind S y les with a view to creating à human climate ruled by the spirit of love an Ё ity
(22.8) Mr President, that racist colonialism which is Zionist imperialism, with its dis- regard for the resolutions and appeals of international organizations, including Unesco, its continued occupation of Arab territories and annexation of such territories, including its latest decree declaring the Holy City of Jerusalem to be its capital, for ever, accord- ing to the declaration, its persistence in expelling the inhabitants and obliterating their cultural identity by all means and in various ways, all this amounts to flagrant defiance and contempt for the conscience of mankind, as represented in mankind's international    organizations. We feel, Mr President, that the time has come for this Organization and other international organizations to adopt such resolutions as are adequate to check the Zionist peril and consistent with this Organization's dignity. Thank you for your patience.
(24.1) Mr OULD SIDI (Mauritania) (Translation from the Arabic): Mr President, your excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to rise to address this gathering, containing as it does the flower of men of intelligence, learning and culture, watching over the interests of our contem- porary world. To begin with, it gives me great pleasure to express my sincere congratula- tions to the President of the General Conference on his brilliant election to the post of President of this session, which is being held in Belgrade, the fighting city, one of the greatest pioneering capitals of the Non-Aligned Movement, that force which has come burst- ing out like a whirlwind to change the map of the world in the second half of this century. To think of Yugoslavia fills the mind with a crowding host of memories of liberation, struggle, freedom and dignity, and support for peoples in their own struggles against im- perialism, domination, persecution, racism and Zionism. All this is bound up with the name of the late President of Yugoslavia, the great Marshal Tito, who lives on as a symbol - intellectual, cultural and emotional - for the people of Yugoslavia and also the peoples of Asia, Africa and Latin America. This man was able to build a bridge between his people's past experience and his own vision of the future. As we have always done, my country's delegation wishes to proclaim the steadfast association of the Mauritanian people and na- tional leadership under Colonel Muhammad Khuna Ould Haidala with the people of Yugoslavia and their mutual affection in the great catastrophe which is the loss of that remarkable man.
(24.2) In addition, we are honoured to join the other delegations in congratulating the Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, whose leadership has merited and will always me- rit, esteem, love and support. Our congratulations to him for this renewed confidence and for assuming that difficult task for which, we believe, he is the best man.
(24.3) Mr President, your excellencies, distinguished delegates, the Mauritanian delega- tion is happy to convey to you greetings from the Mauritanian Military Council of National Liberation and from the government, together with sincere wishes for success and progress in the work of this Conference. These good wishes are accompanied by the high hopes which my country attaches to the results of this session.
(24.4) After this brief introduction, Mr President, with your permission I should like to present a quick exposé of my country's policy in the field of economic and social develop- ment, followed by our delegation's views on the budget and the new world order in the social, economic and information field.
(24.5) After assuming power on 10 July 1978, the National Leadership drew up a compre- hensive plan - despite extremely difficult circumstances - for that integrated national reconstruction whose fruits the people have now begun to enjoy, and whose positive results and shining horizons are now coming into view. One of the most prominent features, one Of the corner-stones of that plan was the achievement of peace in the country as a key element in stabilization of the economic situation and ensuring social security for the people. This was because we wished to respond to the appeal of wisdom and prudence and to act in the people's best interests, and also out of deference to the recommendations and resolutions of the United Nations, the Non-Aligned Movement, and the Organization of African Unity. Our position was dictated by considerations of justice and equity and by the fact that we wished to heed the resolutions of the world community. Apart from this, our attitude stemmed from our geographical situation and our social and cultural aspira- tions; as all of you are doubtless aware, Mauritania constitutes a point of contact between the Arab world and the African world. Accordingly, we are obliged to play our assigned role as a nation which helps to heal rifts and mend breaches and repair fissures betweenfactions.
18 (24.6) From these starting-points and convictions, we proceeded with our plan to save the country, preparing charts to steer by in the fields of economics, education and culture, in order to rebuild the country, which had been seriously affected by the war, and also by drought, and by wastefulness. These factors, on the morning after 10 July 1978, had brought the country to the brink of ruin. Facing this problem-ridden situation which we had inhe- rited, we quickly adopted stringent austerity measures to put an end to the luxury and wastefulness from which the country had suffered in both the public and private sectors. The country was spending more than it produced and living beyond its means. This new pol- | icy yielded good results, as the International Monetary Fund and other economic agencies testified; they encouraged our plan and our approach to putting the country back on its | feet, assuring us that the lines along which we were proceeding were sound and that it was necessary to continue to follow the same course. II should like to take advantage of this opportunity to express, on behalf of my government and its President, Colonel Muhammad Khuna Ould Haidala, our heartfelt thanks to all those friendly nations that hastened to our aid in our time of difficulty.
(24.7) In the second place, Mr President, we determined on a new course in the field of education, with a view to making educational curricula and objectives serve our self-help situation, as this would enable individuals to secure a better grasp of social and spiri- tual values wherewith to support and serve society as a whole. Provision was made for the cultural aspect and its role in cultivating the people, bringing them up to a higher material and moral level and relating them to the underlying roots of the ethical and religious dimensions.
(24.8) In the same way as in the case of the education plan, my country prepared a com- prehensive study of the cultural sector, with a view to the formulation of a policy in the field of the national heritage and its defence through restoration, preservation and reno- vation. This required us to adopt a longer-range goal, and so with Unesco's help we em- barked on an ambitious survey of our most important historic cities in order to save them from the vagaries of time and the uncertainties of fate. The cities in question are Chinguitti, Qualata, Tichitt and Ouadane, and they were celebrated centres of culture and civilization which played a distinguished role beginning in the seventh century of the Hegira, i.e. the thirteenth century A.D. They played a distinguished role in the history of the peoples of the entire region, and were a factor in that region's cultural rise and advance and its human prosperity. In addition to their role as centres of trade and econ- omic exchange, which was due to the passage of caravans along well-known desert routes car- rying gold, ivory and salt, which was a common form of currency and much in demand as a medium of exchange - in addition to this, these cities played an active cultural role in spreading Islam and Arab culture in the African continent and elsewhere, and they made an admirable contribution to the spread of justice, peace, security and all the humane values, | throughout the Middle Ages and right down to the last century. But then shifting trade routes and changes in the climatic, economic and political circumstances of the entire region threatened these cities with ruin and annihilation, and had it not been for the stub= bornness of the inhabitants, the solidity with which the social traditions of the people were rooted, and the tenacity of the people in clinging to their native places, the fate of those cities would have been the same as that which befell other Mauritanian cities which have been swallowed up into the darkness of history, disappeared and been utterly forgotten. These cities, however, hung on in the heart of the desert, despite the misfortunes of drought, climatic change and shifts in trade routes. They have resisted all the vicissi- tudes of cruel nature and have survived until our own day, bearing the messages of the distant past to the glittering future with all their store of precious ancient monuments, rare old Arabic manuscripts and unique cultural traditions; in them could be seen, and still can be seen, exquisite ornaments and architectural art carved into rocks and walls. The preserva- tion and renovation of these cities is a duty demanded by devotion to religion and the sense of history, in addition to a social awareness of the value of preserving that which the mind of man has devised and human genius has built. Mauritania is deeply concerned with the safeguarding of these cities and providing for the future of their inhabitants by bringing about a satisfactory economic situation and breaking out of the difficult circumstances now besetting their people. We have prepared a project for the rescue of these cities, with Unesco's help, and the local people will also participate in the task of saving these cities which are now threatened with destruction, by restoring their monuments and rescuing their heritage through a series of economic and social projects. \
(24.9) The Executive Board of Unesco has adopted this project and given its permission for the launching of an international campaign to save these cities. Our country lacks the re- sources to carry this project through on its own, and for this reason we are hoping for the assistance of all states, agencies and organizations in saving these cities and rescuing their heritage, which constitutes an integral part of the Arabo-African Islamic heritage, and therefore of the heritage of all mankind. In this connection, my country has decided to sign the Convention concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage. My government wishes to emphasize the great importance which it attaches to a positive re- action from this Conference, and to the action which Unesco will undertake in this area of rescue and preservation activities in accordance with the function implied by its very name” Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization - and as a result of the prospective inter- national campaign. We firmly believe that close co-operation between ourselves and Unesco will play the desired role in carrying out these joint actions.
(24.10) Mr President, with reference to the financial report submitted to this Conference, my country's delegation is satisfied with the precise details, the serious effort at con- centration, and the impressive experience of the Director-General, the Executive Board and the men working in this Organization. For this reason we are in favour of adoption of the draft budget for 1981-1983 in its broad lines, without any fundamental amendments. That is because we understand the importance and vital nature of the projects which Unesco is committing itself to undertake in difficult financial circumstances and with means which all too frequently are not ideal for the purpose at hand and tend to be modest and diffi- cult to work with.
(24.11) We join the Director-General in stressing the activities related to science and technology and the priority which they enjoy. While there is a steadily growing gap be- tween rich and poor, despite the efforts which have been devoted to attempts to narrow it, yet in the field of scientific and technological progress some gains have been made, and while the situation is not yet satisfactory, there are grounds for greater optimism. Ас- cordingly, the necessity of exchanges of scientific and technological data, co-operation in the field of such data, and the use of the data and the findings of technological re- search arising from them, have become fundamental conditions for the raising of the level of poor states which are faced with severe problems in their lives and in the course of their development. At this point it is necessary to stress the preparation of the circum- stances which are required in order to make steady progress in accordance with the particu- lar characteristics of each people. Provision must be made for the use of science and technology along lines which are compatible with the culture of a particular people and can lead to the gratification of their basic aspirations; the scientific approach must be united with the heritage of the past.
(24.12) The establishment of a new and more equitable world economic order has become a fundamental quest for all states of the world today. In our view, this urgently calls for the formulation of a new development strategy in the field of culture and communication. This will require the organization of "think meetings" for cultural dialogue and human con- tact in order to enhance capabilities, starting from the spirit of social peace and secur- ity in the areas of food and health for all human beings.
(24.13) Unless economic growth is accompanied by the development of culture, information and education in such a way as to be co-ordinated with man's intellectual and cultural needs, it must inevitably lead to serious forms of deficiency and imbalance. My country's delegation firmly believes that culture, education and information are integral parts of economic development, inasmuch as they constitute central issues in that growth and are key elements in its promotion. Economic development that is isolated from culture, educa- tion and information is sterile and inhuman, however tenaciously it may be pursued.
(24.14) It may be appropriate at this point to mention Unesco's role in the search for the most useful ways of laying the foundations of this strategy in the field of culture, educa- tion and information. This Organization is responsible for mustering human, technical and financial resources to serve its activities, extend the scope of their action and diversify their field of investigation in order to carry out its mission - the mission of mankind. Unesco has worked and must continue to work to stimulate international aid, to disseminate knowledge and skills related to science and technology, and to achieve the interaction of the foregoing with society, the exchange of ideas in the field of experimentation and re- search, and the use of practical technology to serve mankind. Unesco must concentrate on those areas which are increasingly neglected, such as the strengthening of peace, security and mutual understanding among peoples, the elimination of the disadvantaged condition of the poor, and giving the wretched of the earth more concern and justice.
(24.15) Mr President, out of an oppressive mist of vagueness I clearly discern the issue of a new international order in the world's economy, an order which will permit a degree of justice, equity and balance. There is no doubt but that the peoples of the Third World aspire constantly to a better future, to a world ruled by awareness of our common destiny, a world in which each people can live in harmony with others under conditions suitable for its development and freedom along lines consistent with its moral values and particular genius. Underscoring this desire and the legitimacy of these aspirations, it has been unanimously agreed that it is necessary to establish a new and fairer world order. Accord- ingly, what has been called the North-South dialogue was held, and - whether in good faith or otherwise - a number of thoughts on the subject were submitted for frank and honest dis- cussion, with a view to putting an end to the obsolete economic system we now have, which is so deeply rooted in injustice. Alas, nothing tangible was achieved at all; the concepts quickly turned into mere dry-as-dust dictionary terms, empty of any dynamic, applicable content. The "dialogue" became a dialogue of the deaf, or rather it consisted of unintel- ligible conversations closely resembling those we hear when we attend a "theatre of the irrational" performance. So the new international economic order, in its turn, faces such inordinate difficulties that as often as not it appears to be utterly impossible of achieve- ment. Consequently, I personally find that my hopes are flagging and I am assailed by doubts which will not be stilled or laid to rest until the existing situation is changed by a review of the present old and obsolete structures. I believe that we - we the peoples of the underdeveloped nations - have two and only two options: either to make the necess- ary effort of will and planning to halt the draining or bleeding operations and put a stop to our plunge into the darkness of ruin, by establishing a healthy exchange based on mutual respect and the interests of all, or to submit without a struggle, let the present situation continue and worsen, and accept whatever happens.
(24.16) Mr President, concerning information and the issues of communication, my country will spare no possible effort to establish the new world information order; we believe that it is essential to make a beginning with this task, as all the circumstances of the exist- ing information structure point in that direction. The mass media have fallen under the direct influence of the wealthy states, and as long as the information structure remains unchanged and continues to be characterized by contracts that establish relationships of dominance and subservience, the developing nations will be unable to keep up with the evo- lution of this sector, or rather to observe it, and this leads inevitably to unequal partnerships in which one party lords it over the other. Given such a situation, how can we imagine free independent nations, and how can nations be free to choose their informa- tion material? I have before me the report of the Commission appointed by the Director- General to consider the tangled intricacies and study the very complex issues of the prob- lems of information and communication. There is no doubt that the report gives objective consideration to all the basic issues and pivotal ideas which constitute an important basis for the debate and handling of this distressing problem. At all events, I am sure that this report will facilitate matters for the Conference and relieve it of much of the labour   of investigation as it faces the problems of information and discusses its origins, roots and various stages. I should like to express the esteem of the Mauritanian delegation for this Commission, and especially its Chairman, Sean MacBride. We hope that this work will serve as an indicator in the establishment of the desired new order in the field of infor- mation, and that co-operation and mutual understanding will find receptive ears, responsive hearts and honest readiness on the part of those who possess the new technology, the power- ful communication media and the satellites which are used in this field, and that the re- sult will be a reduced degree of dependency in the unilateral flow of information, and less in the way of master-servant relationships.
(24.17) Mr President, distinguished delegates, there is a glaring disparity in our demand- ing freedom and equality, the application of justice and human rights, our aspiring to peace, an end to injustice and abandonment of the arms race, our demanding that the gap between rich and poor be narrowed, while at the same time Zionist racism is setting up structures based on occupation, usurpation, injustice and the imposition of harsh laws in defiance of international custom and the most elementary principles of human rights. Abuses of this kind are a mark of shame on the forehead of mankind, shame which cannot be washed away with all the Javel water in the world. It is a cancer which can only be des- troyed by being cut out and eradicated from the body of Palestine and South Africa, until Namibia is liberated and Palestine is returned to its rightful owners. In this connection, my country's delegation strongly condemns Israel's policy towards the Palestinian Arab people, who have been expelled from their homs and their country. Condemnation of this policy, which rests on arrogance, torture and expulsion, and the taking of all feasible action against it in order to secure the return of the Arab land which has been usurped on the imaginary pretext of "secure borders", have become essential in order to banish the spectre of destruction and to forestall an explosion.
(24.18) Humanity will not allow the Holy City of Jerusalem to be non-Arab, nor will it allow the Palestinian people to continue to be a nation of exiles, robbed of their land, their rights and their country. The time has come to put a stop to the injustice and those who perpetrate it, to put a stop to the operations of destruction - the destruction of an entire people. My country's delegation wishes to record its satisfaction at the un- ceasing concern which Unesco has displayed for some years at the behaviour of the Israeli authorities in the occupied Arab territories, their policy of destroying the Arab cultural identity, Judaizing the populations and obliterating the religious features of the area, mutilating cultural realities and names, and occupying Jerusalem, the heart of the world and the centre of the different religions. That concern, and these facts, which have been reported in a number of reports, justify total condemnation on the part of this session of the General Conference. Israel has disregarded the resolutions of the world community and has refused to leave the Arab lands; it has placed a stumbling-block in the way of the im- plementation of human rights in occupied Palestine. This is clear proof that your resolu- tions have become a dead letter, you who have adopted resolutions in the United Nations condemning Israel, denounced racial discrimination in South Africa, acknowledged that the Palestinian people are entitled to return to their homeland and that Jerusalem is Arab, and recognized the sovereignty of the people of Namibia. But one might imagine that there is some force resisting your noble resolutions and disregarding them. Yes! That force enters into alliance with imperialism and professes a kind of intellectual heresy, to the effect that there is one group of mankind which possesses hegemony based on race and colour, and that there is a Chosen People, created to rule and dominate and to violate even the holy places, in addition to the things of this world, in the city of Jerusalem. Mauritania expresses its solidarity with those - their numbers are steadily growing - who are not deluded, who understand that Israel is an imperialist and colonialist enterprise based on racial discrimination, no less than the whites in South Africa and Namibia.
(24.19) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my country's delegation calls upon you to stand by the side of truth and in support of your own resolutions, so that they may become reality. May this Conference be one of principle and morality, one that comes to grips with the great problems facing the world and afflicting mankind. May our watchword be to strengthen human rights, support world peace and security, and establish an equitable world economic order characterized by justice, equality and respect for the independence and na- tional sovereignty of all states. Mr President, my apologies for having spoken for so long, and I thank you for your patience.
25 MINO PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Mauritanian delegation and I give the floor to Mr Omar Tamou, Ambassador-at-Large of the Comoros and head of the Comorian delegation.
26. 1{5M.MAMOU (Comores) > Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, c'est pour moi un honneur, en même temps qu'un privilège, que de prendre la parole devant une si éminente assemblée. Qu'il me soit permis, tout d'abord, en tant que chef de la délégation comorienne, d'apporter le salut fraternel de notre jeune République à nos hôtes, le gouverne- ment et les peuples yougoslaves. J'en profite pour rendre ici un pieux et solennel hommage au regretté Président Tito, Père de la Yougoslavie moderne.
26.2 Au nom de notre délégation, je félicite les organisateurs de cette vingt et unième session de la Conférence générale, les responsables yougoslaves comme les fonctionnaires du Secrétariat de l'Unesco.
26.3 Nos compliments iront également au Président élu par cette Conférence, M. Ivo Margan, auquel nous apporterons tout notre appui dans l'accomplissement de sa tâche.
26.4 Au nom du gouvernement de la République fédérale islamique des Comores, nous affirmons aussi solennellement notre ferme appui à M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow et le félicitons pour la reconduction de son mandat.
26.5 Cette reconduction couronne d'éminents mérites. Mais, en ce qui nous con- cerne, notre choix, rationnel puisqu'il est fondé sur la reconnaissance de mérites passés qui garantissent le succès des entreprises futures, n'est sans doute pas tout à fait exempt d'affectivité. En effet, bien des liens nous unissent à notre brillant Directeur général. Nous tenons à réaffirmer notre confiance dans la pour- suite de son oeuvre, entre tout sur le plan humanitaire.
26.6 En cette vingt et unième session de la Conférence générale, ma délégation voudrait exposer les vues du gouvernement comorien sur quelques uns des grands problèmes qui préoccupent notre Organisation.
26.7 Nous prenons fermement parti pour toutes les populations brimées en raison de leur race ou de leurs croyances. Nous sommes contre toutes les formes d'oppres- sion et condamnons toute violation des règles internationales.
26.8 Ainsi, nous nous élevons contre l'occupation de la ville sainte de Jérusalem par l'Etat d'Israël au mépris des décisions de la communauté internationale. De même, nous apportons au peuple frère namibien tout notre soutien et combattons la politique d'apartheid menée par l'Afrique du Sud.
26.9 Nous réaffirmons, d'autre part, notre soutien à la déclaration adoptée à la conférence de Yaoundé. En ce qui concerne notre région de l'Afrique de l'Est et de l'océan Indien, nous espérons une meilleure coopération sous-régionale dans les domaines économique et culturel.
26.10 Nous appartenons à ce Tiers Monde, parent pauvre de l'humanité, pour qui les problèmes de développement sont si pressants et si aigus qu'ils mettent sou- vent en jeu la survie même des populations. De surcroît, notre indépendance toute nouvelle a dû subir les aléas et les secousses d'événements récents, dont nous ressentons encore les effets. Ce sont autant de facteurs cumulatifs - en plus de tous ceux que connaissent les autres pays du Tiers Monde - qui freinent notre développement.
26.11 Il n'en reste pas moins que, par notre situation géographique, notre longue histoire, nos structures sociales et notre vie spirituelle, nous nous trouvons au carrefour du continent africain et du monde arabe. Notre originalité est d'inté- grer à la foi la civilisation négro-africaine et l'Islam, et de réaliser une syn- thèse harmonieuse qui est l'essence même de notre peuple et de notre identité nationale.
26.12 En ce qui concerne le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1981-1983 dont nous sommes saisis à cette vingt et uniéme sesion, nous souscrivons, après ana- lyse, à ses grandes lignes. C'est ainsi que nous approuvons la poursuite du Plan à moyen terme et sa prolongation jusqu'en 1983. Les options déjà définies lors des précédentes sessions, et les actions engagées, doivent être menées avec vigueur afin que puissent être atteints les principaux objectifs visés, notamment le droit de chacun à l'éducation, la paix internationale et le respect des libertés fonda- mentales, l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre international plus juste et plus hu- main, le droit à l'information et à la communication, la lutte contre toute discri- mination, et plus spécialement contre l'apartheid.
26.13 J'ajouterai, au nom du Ministère de l'éducation nationale, des objectifs qui me sont particulièrement chers : la lutte contre l'analphabétisme et l'adéqua- tion des systèmes éducatifs au monde du travail, ainsi que la complémentarité des sous-secteurs d'éducation formelle et non formelle.
26.14 En ce qui concerne les nouvelles orientations proposées, nous nous inté- ressons particulièrement, outre aux actions à mener en faveur des handicapés et pour le développement complet de l'enfant, à la suite à donner aux conclusions de la conférence de Vienne de 1979 sur la science et la technique au service du déve- loppement, conclusions auxquelles l'Unesco doit donner une orientation pratique.
26.15 Pour ce qui est du programme de projets régionaux majeurs, il en est trois qui retiennent notre attention : celui relatif à la géologie appliquée au dévelop- pement, celui qui a trait à l'aménagement des zones tropicales humides, et enfin celui qui concerne l'aménagement des écosystèmes côtiers.
26.16 De même, nous félicitons-nous de l'attention portée à des problèmes con- crets tels que ceux relatifs aux ressources en eau, à la prévention des risques naturels, et plus particulièrement des phénomènes volcaniques auxquels notre pays est si souvent confronté. Enfin, les questions qui touchent au droit de la mer, nous touchent de près en tant que peuple insulaire. Il s'agit en effet de pro- blèmes vitaux pour notre pays, au sens le plus fort du terme.
26.17 Parmi les conférences prévues pour la période triennale, nous avons plus spécialement retenu : la conférence régionale des Etats membres de l'Afrique ; la conférence d'Etats sur les conventions régionales en matière de reconnaissance des études et des diplômes et la réunion d'experts sur les besoins et priorités en matière d'éducation dans les pays les moins développés, catégorie dont notre pays, hélas, fait partie.
26.18 En tout état de cause, la stratégie envisagée pour la période considérée - continuité dans l'action, décentralisation et concentration - nous agrée ; elle porte en elle le dynamisme propre à atteindre les objectifs définis.
26.19 Mais je serais incomplet, si je n'évoquais à cette tribune, quelques-uns de nos propres projets nationaux, et si je ne disais nos espoirs quant à la coopéra- tion internationale.
26.20 Certes l'appui des grandes instances internationales n'a pas fait défaut à notre pays depuis son accession à l'indépendance et nous les en remercions, de même que nous sommes reconnaissants aux gouvernements amis de l'aide qu'ils nous ont apportée. C'est ainsi que des résolutions concernant notre jeune nation ont été adoptées, à plusieurs reprises, tant par l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, que par l'Organisation de l'Unité africaine. Par ailleurs, le rapport du Conseil économique et social, présenté à la trente-deuxième session de l'Assemblée générale (104e séance plénière) a mis l'accent sur nos difficultés, préconisant une assistance d'urgence en faveur de notre pays. Nous sommes très sensibles à cette convergence des sympathies, comme nous apprécions à leur juste valeur les aides effectives qui nous sont fournies, que ce soit par le Programme des Nations Unies pour le développement, et les institutions qui en exécutent les projets, par les banques de développement - la BAD ou la BIRD - ou par l'Unicef.
26.21 L'aide de l'Unesco, quant à elle, a précédé notre accession à l'indépen- dance et s'est consolidée ces dernières années, qu'il s'agisse de l'assistance au centre national de la documentation, élément indispensable à l'affirmation de l'identité culturelle comorienne, ou d'un projet Unesco/PNUD lancé en décembre
1979, dont l'objectif est de renforcer le secteur éducatif. Nous apprécions au plus haut point cette assistance et souhaitons pour les années à venir non seule- ment son maintien mais encore son extension.
26.22 Par ailleurs, nous sommes d'ores et déjà assurés de l'exécution d'au moins deux projets financés l'un, par des crédits du Fonds africain de développement, filiale de la Banque africaine de développement, et l'autre par l'Association in- ternationale pour le développement dépendant de la Banque mondiale. Ces projets nous permettront de lancer notre programme de ruralisation de l'enseignement. A ce propos, nous nous félicitons que l'Unesco soit associée à ces projets en tant qu'agent d'exécution, de même qu'elle le sera très certainement pour un projet du Fonds des Nations Unies pour les activités en matière de population, pour lequel les négociations sont déjà très avancées. Enfin, nous avons l'espoir que les "fonds-en-dépôt" de l'Unesco nous permettront de réaliser certains de nos projets que nous considérons comme prioritaires. Je dois ajouter que nous approuvons plei- nement cette collaboration de l'Unesco aux projets financés par de grandes institu- tions internationales de financement : elle est pour nous synonyme de sérieux et constitue une garantie de l'exécution de nos projets.
26.23 Nous espérons à la fois généraliser l'enseignement fondamental à partir de
1985, renforcer l'enseignement de la langue arabe, une de nos deux langues offi- cielles aux termes de notre Constitution, et ruraliser l'enseignement primaire et le premier cycle de l'enseignement secondaire. Parallèlement, nous estimons indis- pensable de poursuivre la création d'écoles professionnelles spécialisées, pour répondre à nos besoins urgents de cadres moyens d'exécution dans des secteurs vi- taux pour notre développement - je citerai notamment la santé, l'agriculture, l'élevage, la pêche, l'enseignement et l'artisanat rural. Nous orienterons davan- tage nos étudiants vers des études supérieures directement utiles à notre dévelop- pement. Enfin nous désirons mobiliser le plus efficacement possible notre jeunesse et promouvoir une politique culturelle qui tienne compte de toutes nos réalités.
26.24 Pour un programme aussi ambitieux, et dont dépend l'avenir de notre pays, nous ferons appel à la fois aux pays frères, aux pays amis, et à l'aide multila- térale. Par ailleurs, nous avons le ferme espoir de voir se développer en faveur de notre pays les actions entreprises au titre du programme ordinaire de l'Unesco, plus spécialement pour la sauvegarde de notre patrimoine culturel, complément in- dispensable à notre ouverture sur le monde moderne et l'univers technologique. Ainsi donc, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, cette vingt et unième session de la Conférence générale est pour nous pleine de promesses, à la fois au plan international et pour nos populations, et nous nous voulons résolument opti- mistes. Puisse l'avenir nous donner raison.
27. 15INe PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Comorian delegation and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Nicolaos Konomis, Minister of Education of Cyprus and head of the Cypriot delegation.
28.1 Mr KONOMIS (Cyprus): Mr President, distinguished delegates, on behalf of the Cypriot delegation, I should like first to transmit through you, Mr President, our congratulations to Mr Ivo Margan on his election. We feel very confident that his leadership and ex- pertise will provide the premises for a successful and fruitful conclusion of this very important meeting. I would like also to convey a word of welcome and our warm congratulations to the new Member States which have just joined our Organiza- tion, wishing them all prosperity and success.
28.2 Secondly, I should like to express our deep and sincere appreciation to the Government of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, with which Cyprus is linked by very special bonds, for being the gracious and hospitable host of this Conference and for sparing no effort in its successful organization. For us Cypriots to be present here in the land and with the people of the late Marshal Josip Broz Tito, the great world leader, the lasting friend of our country and of the late President Makarios, is especially meaningful.
28.3 Our warm congratulations go also to the Director-General on his well- deserved re-election, on the excellent work achieved, on the draft programme and budget, on his unremitting efforts in carrying out his many and difficult tasks, and on his shouldering of the burden of the needs of the Third World. For all these, the Director-General and the Secretariat deserve our deep gratitude.
28.4 Mr President, the Draft Programme for 1981-1983 presents some original fea- tures that require new approaches to a number of international problems. The decisive adoption of a philosophical approach in dealing with human problems will certainly renovate our attitudes towards situations arising out of the new his- torical circumstances of a changing world. Allow me, however, to say that the issue of human rights remains an ever-burning one, and that no policy bearing on material and cultural development can be effective unless these rights are safe- guarded and promoted at the same time.
28.5 In a period of international tension, renewed and fruitful dialogue on education within the framework of institutional Unesco conferences greatly con- tributes to the promotion of world understanding and the reinforcement of peace. This moral demand is met by the proposed education programme which, as has been aptly said, both corresponds to the priorities laid down by the General Conference and is connected with the follow-up to the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development.
28.6 We in Cyprus attach great importance to Unesco's proposed education pro- gramme, believing that it harmoniously combines the spirit of universality with the conception of and respect for cultural identity embodied in the principles of Опевсо“в Constitution.
28.7 Thus, the major educational policy issues of the 1980s, namely the democra- tization of education and the developmental needs of societies so clearly outlined under the objectives of the proposed programme, attract our fullest attention.
28.8 Concerning the requirement of democratization, we note that the world in- crease in enrolments which has taken place at all levels of education in recent years has resulted in the broadening of access to education and contributed sub- stantially to the increased equality of educational opportunities. At present, however, our priority concern is with action to provide equal chances of educa- tional success. For the benefit of children from the least privileged groups, such as refugee children, as well as children living in isolated rural communities and deprived urban areas, educational and other measures are being taken to counter- balance social adversities.
28.9 In Cyprus, to encourage and facilitate mobility between different streams and types of education, educational structures have been modified. To this end, the institution of the Lyceum of Optional Subjects has been introduced on a nation- wide scale after the implementation and evaluation of a pilot project. This educa- tional innovation will encourage and facilitate diversification, flexibility and mobility, considered by Unesco's draft programme as necessary prerequisites for the promotion of the democratization process.
28.10 The recent curriculum development introduced at all stages of Cypriot edu- cation is another important factor making for increased equality of access to edu- cation. In this respect, the educational change attempted has integrated tional objectives, goals, methods and teaching media in a way that allows for the   harmonious combination of individual fulfilment with the satisfaction of social needs.
28.11 The importance we attribute to the developmental aspect of the Draft Pro- gramme for 1981-1983 is also discernible in our increased awareness of the desir- ability of establishing links between education and productive work. We unre- servedly share the view that this objective may be mainly achieved through activi- ties to be undertaken in the domain of technical and vocational education.
28.12 Apart from meeting the specific needs of endogenous development by provid- ing the invasion-afflicted economy of Cyprus with skilled labour, technical and vocational education should increasingly strengthen its links with general educa- tion. The recent curriculum change effected by the Cypriot Department of Technical and Vocational Education, with the aim of harmonizing objectives and skills, toge- ther with the adoption of the Unit Credit System, which encourages and promotes individualization in the learning process, are indicative of the emphasis laid on the desirable combination of theory and practice and the importance attributed to the child as an individual.
28.13 We therefore fully support the Director-General's decision to provide a fit- ting follow-up to the International Year of the Child by devising "a more system- atic programme dealing with the different aspects of educational work undertaken under the various objectives in terms of the child, his needs and his all-round development prospects".
28.14 Finally, we are convinced that the two lines of emphasis of the proposed programme, that is, the interlinking of formal with non-formal education and the relevance of education to work can be fruitfully promoted by introducing the "com- ponents of an all-embracing, coherent system of lifelong education for young peo- ple and adults", to use the formulation of the Third Conference of Ministers of Education of Member States of the Europe Region.
28.15 Our delegation, Mr President, has carefully studied the programme for social sciences and their applications, and we have noted with satisfaction the new trends and the new criteria laid down with a view to approaching the social problems common to the international community. In the first place, we consider that the decisive adoption of the philosophical criterion in dealing with human problems marks a turning-point in the formulation of Unesco's policy, since only by way of the philosophical approach will it be possible to deal with problems of universal import. The implicit connection between theory and practice has been successfully grasped in dealing with objective 3.3, where the importance of philosophical inquiry resides, above all, in its ability to reveal the correlation between the acquisition of knowledge and its meaning for man. Moreover, the philo- sophical approach will allow for the adoption of interdisciplinary methods.
28.16 The implementation of such a programme, allow me to say, Mr President, can- not be uniform in all Member States. As you very well know, the developing coun- tries are greatly in need of much preparatory work and material in the field of the social sciences. Our delegation therefore looks with interest to the meeting of experts to be convened in 1981 to consider the main scientific tasks confront- ing the social sciences during the Third Development Decade, with special refer- ence to the problems associated with the establishment of a new international economic order. Since the terms of reference of this Committee are not absolutely clearly defined, we think that it should be one of its tasks not only to delineate problems and tasks for Member States but also to consider ways and means of deal- ing with those problems and tasks by mobilizing national scientific resources and assisting local institutions in carrying out the investigations assigned to them by the Committee. Such action implies, of course, a concomitant programme of assistance to the national social science research resources of the developing nations. My delegation hopes that due consideration will be given to the material assistance required by smaller institutions in the developing countries. In this connection, we look forward to the creation of a Mediterranean centre for the co- ordination of research programmes in the region. My country is ready to offer its co-operation for the promotion and execution of interregional projects through the Social Research Centre now in operation in Nicosia. We consider the project on the history and diversity of cultures to be equally significant, and are ready to co- operate to the best of our means in its implementation.
28.17 Coming now to the objectives relating to the study and planning of develop- ment, we note with great satisfaction the central place Unesco gives in its policy to the establishment of a new international economic order, an objective not out- side the general scope of Unesco. It is rightly recognized that the foundations of a new international economic order are ethical in nature and that the principles underlying the successful launching of this major international enterprise have to be instilled by way of education. The success of the scheme depends on a number of factors, foremost among which is the strengthening of the endogenous development        process. Moreover, the differentiated rate of development in the various countries 18 should be clearly assessed by means of compartive studies, and recommendations with- in Unesco's fields of competence should be made towards bridging the gap between over-industrialized and developing countries. In our view, such suggestions will have to be integrated into the relevant policy and projects of the United Nations Organization, whose approach to the new international economic order is based more on the material than the ethical aspects of the problem. Only a co-ordinated pro- gramme drawn up and carried out simultaneously on principles and their practical applications can achieve the major objective of a new economic order, that is, the reduction of inequalities between countries and within countries themselves.
28.18 The human rights and peace objective is a fundamental element of Unesco's general programme. We fully subscribe to the resolve to treat jointly the prob- lems of human rights with those of peace, and by extension, the problems of dis- armament and international law. Despite the fact that action in the field of human rights has frequently been ineffective, the continuing action of Unesco in this field is indispensable in the face of persisting international conflict and repeated violations of human rights. We think that the orientation of Unesco's policy should be in the direction of more effective control of violations of human rights and fuller implementation of the Unesco Declaration on Race and Racial Prejudice.
28.19 The present programme attempts an innovation in response to the need for a clearer definition of the nature of human rights, conceived as social phenomena, as the individual attributes of every human being. In our opinion, what is lacking in the field of human rights is not a theoretical definition of their content, which is sufficiently clear and agreed upon, but enforcement of their observance. We understand, of course, that effective enforcement of the observance of human rights is not the exclusive competence of Unesco, but comes under the concerted action of the United Nations Organization and its various agencies. We must in- sist, nevertheless, on the supreme role of Unesco in the education of mankind in what I might describe as the moral discipline of human rights. Unesco should take most rigorous action in the development of education in human rights, in accordance with the plan elaborated by the Meeting of Experts in June 1979 and the principles identified by the Vienna International Conference on the Teaching of Human Rights in 1978, which requires "education concerning human rights and the teaching thereof at all levels of both formal and non-formal education, so as to constitute lifelong education for all men and women of all countries".
28.20 Mr President, as a country with an 8,000 year-old civilization and posses- sing a rich archaeological heritage, Cyprus is interested in the preservation and presentation of archaeological sites in urban settings, and therefore welcomes the proposal for the study of this theme. We also support the undertaking of new studies on new conservation techniques in the museums of the future, the under- water cultural heritage, landscaping around monuments, particularly archaeologi- cal sites, and the continuation of studies on the protection of monuments and sites in seismic areas as well as the protection of monuments and sites against atmospheric pollution. These studies, we believe, will be of help to every country in the protection of its cultural heritage.
28.21 We in Cyprus, who have witnessed recently the continuous destruction and plunder of our cultural heritage in the occupied areas of Cyprus, support all efforts for the implementation of the 1954 Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict and also support the 1970 Conven- tion for Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property. Furthermore, we ask the Secretariat to provide the necessary services for promoting the return of cultural property to countries of origin or restitution in cases of illicit appropriation. We also welcome the proposal to provide support for planning and programming the establishment or modernization of institutions for the preservation and presentation of cultural property, and we look forward to collaboration in this field, especially now that we are planning to build a new Archaeological Museum in Nicosia.
28.22 Concerning science and technology, Mr President, we share the view that economic and social progress and the improvement of living conditions of all peoples of the world, especially those of the developing countries, depend very largely on the mastery and judicious utilization of scientific and technological knowledge and involve the free flow of such knowledge and the free transfer of technology.
28.23 We are convinced that the efforts made towards the establishment of a new international economic order, to which Cyprus is committed, presuppose, among other things, a reduction in the growing disparity between nations in scientific and tech- nological potential. In order, however, to serve a country's progress effectively, such developments must be rooted in and draw on indigenous capabilities which would thus need to be given high priority and be built up constantly and methodically.
28.24 In supporting the Programme of Action proposed by the United Nations Con- ference on Science and Technology for Development and adopted by the United Nations General Assembly at its thirty-fourth session in December 1979, my government accepts that Unesco, through the vast experience it has acquired so far in the fields of science and technology, should play a leading role within the United Na- tions system in ensuring the implementation of the UNCSTD Programme of Action. It further agrees that Unesco should make its contribution towards the promotion of scientific and technological projects, and would fully support the increased allo- cation of resources towards fulfilling these aims.
28.25 Mr President, Cyprus has from the very beginning supported Unesco's initia- tive in the vast field of communications. We have as a country participated in all the efforts made to seek an understanding of this most important phenomenon of our age - the communications revolution - the understanding that would lead to a desir- able change in an intolerable status quo.
28.26 Three distinct but closely interrelated tasks ought to be undertaken for this revolutionary change in the communication field to be controlled. The first task would be the definition of a coherent philosophy on communication. The sec- ond would involve the drafting and adoption of a suitable framework of principles on the use of the means of communication, consistent with the philosophy already defined. The third task would be related to the practical measures required to translate our conceptual thinking into reality.
28.27 We welcomed the establishment of the MacBride Commission as a comprehensive approach to the philosphy of communication. We have expressed our views on the interim report, and are happy to see several substantial changes in the final report, most of the conclusions of which are acceptable to us. We have already drafted and adopted substantial normative instruments such as the declarations of principles adopted in 1972 and 1978. We are now faced with the practical aspects of the communication problems and the measures to be taken to rectify the existing imbalance.
28.28 The Intergovernmental Conference for Co-operation on Activities, Needs and Programmes for Communications Development convened at Unesco Headquarters last April reached a unanimous recommendation elaborated in consultation between re- gional groups for an ambitious but necessary communications development programme. We wholeheartedly support this programme and are ready to participate and help in every possible way in its implementation. We do hope that the necessary funds will be placed at the disposal of Unesco for the implementation of this programme.
28.29 In concluding, Mr President, I wish to reaffirm our continued support for the objectives set out in the present programme, and to assure you of our con- tinued attachment to the ideals which inspire the policy and action of Unesco. Allow me, therefore, to voice my delegation's sincere wishes that the present Gen- eral Conference session may be brought to a successful conclusion. We express the earnest hope that Unesco's action will continue to be of benefit to the interna- tional community at large, in the interests not only of cultural development but also of international peace and co-operation. Thank you, Mr President.
29. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Cypriot delegation and I given the floor to H.E. The Hon. Abdul Karim Koroma, Minister of Education of Sierra Leone and head of the Sierra Leonean delegation.
30.1 Mr KOROMA (Sierra Leone): Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, permit me on be- half of our President, Dr Siaka Stevens, who is the current Chairman of the Organization of African Unity, and on behalf of the Government and people of the Republic of Sierra Leone, to extend to the Government and people of Yugoslavia our deepest gratitude for offering to delegations the use of such wonderful facilities.
30.2 It is at moments such as this that we remember great men; men whose con- tribution to unity, freedom and the improvement of the quality of life of their people has been of incontestably outstanding merit. We remember in this regard the great soldier, the statesman and one of the founders of the Non-Aligned Move- ment, the late great Yugoslav leader - President Josip Broz Tito. May his memory always be an inspiration to all who are committed in the struggle for a more peace- ful world, where the interactions of men will be guided by the values of co- operation rather than conflict, understanding rather than prejudice, weapons limi- tation and peace rather than weapons accumulation, escalating tensions and war. To the people of Yugoslavia, we register once again our sympathy at his passing.
30.3 Our meeting in Belgrade at this time in the history of Unesco is indeed a momentous occasion. This, of course, is made possible by no less a leader than       the new President himself. It is our sincere hope that under his leadership Yugoslavia will continue to manifest deep interest in the work of Unesco. My dele- gation wishes to join with others in offering him our warmest congratulations and wishing him every success.
30.4 Mr President, permit me, on behalf of the Sierra Leonean delegation, to extend - through you - our heartiest congratulations to Mr Ivo Margan on his election. We have no doubt whatever that he will steer the affairs of this august assembly throughout the present session with all fairness and equanimity.
30.5 May I also take the opportunity to commend the efficient manner in which the outgoing President, Mr Napoléon LeBlanc, conducted the affairs of the Organization. I am sure that all of us here appreciate the time and energy which he has devoted to the smooth running of this Organization since our last General Conference. His election was timely and encouraging; we wish to thank him for the work done and to wish him well.
30.6 My delegation extends a hearty welcome to the new Member States of Unesco. I refer here to Equatorial Guinea, Botswana, Sao Tome and Principe, Zimbabwe and the Kingdom of Tonga. I wish to echo the satisfaction already expressed by other distinguished delegations concerning Unesco's steady move towards the goal of universality.
30.7 Mr President, some two years have passed since we last gathered in this manner at Unesco's Headquarters in Paris to consider for approval the Draft Pro- gramme and Budget of our Organization for 1979-1980. We now meet again, but this time to consider the draft programme and budget for a three-year period, in keep- ing with the recycling of the programmes and budgets of the Organization which, from 1984 onwards, should, like those of other organizations and agencies of the United Nations system, be drawn up for biennial periods beginning with an even year.
30.8 My delegation welcomes the intensification of the Organization's activities in connection with literacy work, the education of the handicapped and science and technology. We note with pleasure the allocation of greater resources to these activities. This is a source of gratification to us in developing countries, and especially to Sierra Leone, where such activities continue to be of priority con- cern to our government.
30.9 Mr President, my delegation wishes to record its appreciation to all whose efforts contributed to the success of the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development held in Vienna in August 1979. Sierra Leone participated eagerly in that Conference, believing it to be a very important one because of the interactions between science, technology, development and society.
30.10 The deliberations in Vienna justified our view, and we were therefore amply satisfied with the resolutions adopted and particularly with the approval of the Programme of Action. It is therefore worthy of note that the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983 has been prepared with the aims of making an effective contri- bution to its implementation. This is as it should be, Mr President. Indeed, our Organization has, from the outset, accorded great priority to programmes in science and technology. The soundness of Unesco's policy concerning science and technology for development has thus been confirmed.
30.11 Mr President, one of the greatest problems developing countries have to con- tend with is the high rate of illiteracy. This problem is of fundamental concern to our government since it lies at the root of socio-economic development. Itris, moreover, primarily due to an awareness of the pervasive nature of illiteracy that our government lays a heavy premium on diversified and intensive literacy pro- grammes. Two areas of emphasis continue to be of interest - primary and adult edu- cation. Both in Sierra Leone have achieved successes, though not without certain problems.
30.12 For many developing countries, the establishment of a new world information order would help to cure the malady of one-sided information. In their own modest ways, developing nations have tried to improve the situation by the creation of national news agencies. We in Sierra Leone have finally succeeded, with the help of other friendly countries and international organizations, in setting up the Sierra Leone News Agency. But, Mr President, the task of presenting to the world the true state of affairs in our country, in order to counter some of the malicious, sometimes hostile news items published by some of the more established news agencies is definitely not an easy one for our fledging, which will have to work very hard indeed, and to create a staff of very well-trained journalists and news media per- sonnel. Here, therefore, we taken consolation from Unesco's proposals with regard to the training of such personnel.
30.13 Mr President, I would like to say how proud we were to host the second Conference of Broadcasting Organizations of Non-Aligned Countries in Freetown. The Conference adopted several recommendations and resolutions, as well as a plan of action which is of great relevance to our Organization. We hope, with the ac- tive co-operation of all concerned, to try to implement it.
30.14 In the developing countries, rural dwellers generally constitute well over
70 per cent of the population, and they may well be illiterate. This poses asso- ciated perceptual problems, sometimes referred to as "pictorial illiteracy", which adversely affect their understanding of the visual media. Since the various forms of the media (radio, television, newspapers, broadsheets, etc.) have an essential role to play in facilitating communication at all levels in rural development pro- jects, it is essential to develop them.
30.15 Towards this end, the Government of Sierra Leone, realizing that through radio and television the instant motivation of the mass of the population is both possible and effective, has made substantial investments in the development of its broadcasting facilities. One of the outputs of this investment is the extension of television coverage to the rural areas, where the aim is to provide opportuni- ties for pictorial support ideas that can be easily and instantly assimilated by illiterate audiences. This is all the more important because rural areas are also areas of agriculture. As the government's priority for the development of its agro-based economy is committed to the intensification of agricultural productivi- ty, much emphasis is being placed on agricultural extension services geared to assist farmers in adopting modern methods of cultivation that will lead to in- creased yields. In this connection, broadcasting has been assigned the task of mass mobilization in the dissemination of ideas.
30.16 Mr President, distinguished delegates, Unesco's spheres of interest - educa- tion, science, culture and communication - embrace almost all fields of human en- deavour. We belive in a strong and meaningful organization; an organization that must have a clearly defined and well formulated set of ideas for the progress of our societies and the improvement of the quality of life, together with the means of realizing our aspirations in practice.
30.17 Mr President, distinguished delegates, individual nations, primarily in the Third World, have passed beyond a cross-roads in their destinies. For many of them, which have emerged now from colonial tutelage, the urgent task to define their priorities as sovereign nations, and to activate their peoples into a movement for socio-economic transformation.
30.18 This is a logical and legitimate evolution of our historic destiny. We be- lieve that no man can put brakes on human destiny; nor must anyone, by psychologi- cal or vigorous persuasion, endeavour to stall the march of history and impede the fulfilment of the dreams and aspirations of a people.
30.19 Today, our planet Earth bristles with the beautiful and the pathetic, the joys and sorrows, the pleasures and the hazards of physical and psychological existence. There are, in our various national societies, the weak, the deprived, and socially down-trodden. Some of these, most visibly in the Third World, are found at the very bottom of the social scale, where their lack of education, of health and of political influence create for them a vicious circle of deprivation. They are often regarded as marginal in the movement for social transformation.
30.20 It is in this regard, Mr President, that the work of Unesco becomes most vital. We must give it the necessary support for the creation of a climate for social justice and progress. For only through the distribution of equal opportuni- ties for education, cultural enrichment and scientific and technological progress on a global scale, can we ‘moderate environmental irritants and improve the quality of our existence.
30.21 Distinguished delegates, I pray that our twenty-first session here in Bel- grade will be another step in fulfiling Unesco's cherished hopes and role. Thank you.
(32.1) Mr OBAD (Democratic Yemen) (Translation from the Arabic): Mr President, Mr Director-General, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, distinguished delegates, I am most pleased and deeply honoured to be among you at this Conference which is being held here in Belgrade in the land of revolution and socialism, the land of gene- rosity and nobility, the land which contributed to the founding of the Non-Aligned Move- ment to serve the cause of peace, the land of the immortal fighter, Marshal Josip Broz Tito, who was one of the outstanding figures of contemporary history.
(32.2) With your permission, I should like to congratulate the President of the General Conference most sincerely on his election as President of this session, and I should also like to take advantage of this opportunity to ask him to convey the greetings of all of us - party, people and President - to the President of the Republic of Yugoslavia and the friendly people of Yugoslavia, together with my thanks on behalf of the delegation of Democratic Yemen for their generosity in acting as our hosts and the warmth of their wel- come, and for their excellent organization of this Conference.
(32.3) This is also an excellent opportunity for me to express my sincerest greetings and esteem and offer my warmest good wishes to Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow upon his unanimous re- election as Director-General of Unesco. This indicates the high degree of confidence which the Organization's Member States feel in his admirable leadership qualities. We offer Unesco our best wishes for further progress, development and brilliant success in implement- ing and bringing to fruition those lofty goals to which ail mankind aspires.
(32.4) Mr President, this twenty-first session of the Unesco General Conference comes at the end of the Organization's Medium-Term Plan, which began in 1977 and will end in 1982. Ever since the Organization was founded it has carried the torch of education, culture, science and information, and in the course of its long experience and as a result of its creative abilities it has become a beacon and a lamp, guiding and informing the states and peoples of the entire world. This in itself gives us more confidence, pride and satisfaction. The Organization's activities and programmes extend to over 150 countries on this planet, and this constitutes tangible evidence of the solidity and validity of Unesco as a framework for action and the outstanding competence which has been devoted to the task of running it. It also constitutes evidence of the Organization's excellent leadership and the soundness of its pioneering role. While on the subject, I think it is appropriate to mention that the spirit of the Nairobi Conference and the Conference held on the banks of the Seine lives on through the powerful impulse or push forward which the resolutions adopted then constituted in the Organization's history. There is no doubt but that this session will be an even greater and deeper turning-point. With your permission, Mr President, I should like to express praise and gratitude for the sincere efforts de- voted by the Organization to the task of giving concrete expression to the resolutions of its General Conferences in the form of tangible work at the practical level, and the accompanying ceaseless, exhausting efforts will live for ever. For it is essential for those historic resolutions to be translated into reality and for work to be devoted to their implementation, and states, peoples and organizations must assume the task of giving practical effect to them, in accordance with the principles of collective responsibility, as otherwise they will become mere scraps of paper, fine words, empty rhetoric.
(32.5) Mr President, it is urgently necessary for us today to formulate resolutions which are more appropriate and generous in serving all mankind, deriving them from the current reality being experienced by the peoples of the Earth. We must devote our efforts to the task of ensuring that this Conference produces judicious resolutions that call for and help to strengthen international peace and mutual understanding, reinforce human rights, oppose racism and racial discrimination, including Zionism, and fight against incitement to war, the better to serve the cause of peace, security and disarmament.
(32.6) Mr President, as Arabs we do not forget Unesco's courageous stands vis-a-vis the plans of the Zionist enemy to obliterate the Arab character of Jerusalem, the city which contains the holy places of the three revealed religions, Islam, Christianity and Judaism, and which underscored the historical evidence that those holy places have been preserved there only because the city is Arab. The Zionist enemy's recent proclamation that Jerusalem is its eternal capital is nothing but a display of arrogance and contempt for the world community and the resolutions of the United Nations and Unesco. Israel has carried its defiance to the point of destroying the homes of peaceable inhabitants and religious monu- ments, thereby giving concrete expression to its aggressive behaviour towards all mankind and its flagrant assault on humanity. And the fact that so many of the peoples and states of the world have joined the Arabs in their rejection of the Judaization of Jerusalem is a practical illustration of the realization of those peoples and states that it is important for Jerusalem to remain Arab. In this international forum, we appeal to Unesco to continue its support for the right of the Arabs to eliminate the Zionist occupation, not only from the city of Jerusalem but from all the occupied territories, and to continue its support and encouragement for the struggle of the Palestinian Arab people, under the leadership of the Palestine Liberation Organization, their just and legitimate struggle to establish an independent Palestinian state.
(32.7) Mr President, the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen plunged into a bitter armed conflict with imperialism which lasted for four years. The masses of our people were able to seize their independence on the eve of 30 November 1967. The purpose was to put a na- tional democratic government into power, by means of which it would be possible to achieve a life of freedom and dignity for the masses of the people of Democratic Yemen and remove class differences for ever, so that justice and equality would prevail and opportunities to work and to achieve democracy would be made available, thereby opening the way to the building of a progressive and evolving type of life through which our country could join with the peoples of the world in contributing to the building of peace and the achievement of ease and prosperity on earth.
(32.8) The land of Democratic Yemen has witnessed great changes and transformations during its new era in its political, economic and social aspects, and the cultural and educational
18 sector has also experienced evolution and progress. In fact, the cultural and educational movement in our country has become the evolving reflection of the economic and social trans- formations that have taken place. Our country is fighting relentlessly to achieve the de- mocratization of education and the propagation of the progressive ideology in order to ensure the emergence of a culture which is bound up with the life of the people and closely associated with the issues affecting them, one which serves as a vehicle for values and concepts which will translate their concerns into reality and crystallize their struggle against imperialism, colonialism and neo-colonialism. Our country has striven tirelessly to implant an educational policy which is bound up with real life, one which will express the transformations and achievements now going forward, and will teach students to love work, devote themselves to their country and respect the ideology of the working class as a theoretical basis for the struggle of the masses. This policy must also implant in the students love and respect for all peoples who are struggling against imperialism and colo- nialism, and also against Zionism, the historic enemy of the Arab peoples. It must also encourage their skills and aptitudes in order to train and prepare them to become citizens who are concerned for life and the love of peace.
(32.9) Mr President, the issue of the struggle to eliminate illiteracy, viewing it as a chronic disease and one of the factors serving to impede development, must secure Unesco's attention. This, in fact, is underscored by the 21 C/5 document and the activities des- cribed therein concerning assistance to Member States to achieve total elimination of the scourge of illiteracy, in order to liberate the individual and enable him to acquire knowl- edge during lifelong education, so that he will become an effective instrument in the evo- lution of society. We in Democratic Yemen inherited a post-independence situation featur- ing an illiteracy rate of about 90 per cent of our total population as a result of the colonialist policy which had prevented the native people from becoming educated. Since independence, our government has adopted a great many measures designed to eradicate illi- teracy among the workers of our country, and we have been able to achieve striking succes- ses which have placed our country among the leaders in this field among the developing nations. The People's Supreme’ Council in our country, at its sixth session, held on 7-
8 September of this year, conducted an evaluation of all activities related to the literacy movement and adopted a new law which inaugurated a new phase in the struggle against illi- teracy through success in the comprehensive literacy campaign, which may be regarded as the conclusion of the comprehensive campaign which began in 1973 and was designed to eli- minate illiteracy; the new phase will begin in October 1980 and will continue until 1985. The People's Supreme Council issued an appeal to all the workers of our country, all mass organizations and all international organizations to participate effectively in making a success of this campaign to achieve the final liquidation of illiteracy within the time frame specified in the law. We have also instituted a post-literacy phase in order firmly to implant lifelong education, with post-literacy classes to ensure that people do not re- lapse into illiteracy.
(32.10) Mr President, we in Democratic Yemen are setting out from our revolutionary goals to develop education in its various forms, both formal and non-formal. Our objective in this is to build a new man, able to contribute to and to accompany the process of scienti- fic and technological evolution, basically in the interests of human issues and social, economic and cultural progress. We wish to emphasize the great concern with support for our various educational projects which the Director-General of Unesco has demonstrated over the years. We should like him to issue an appeal concerning the comprehensive liter- acy campaign in our country, inviting states, international organizations and governmental and non-governmental bodies to help us make a success of this campaign to eliminate illi- teracy among the masses of our people and to create the new man, foster his evolution and growth, and make him alert to everything which serves humanity or helps to preserve peace.
(32.11) Mr President, with regard to the application of science and technology, we should like to see Unesco contribute to Democratic Yemen's efforts in this field in the context of its proposed programmes for 1981-1983, with a view to achieving the objectives of econ- omic and social development and encouraging indigenous capabilities. Realizing as we do the importance of the development of science and technology, we have created a College of Technology at the University of Aden. In view of the country's limited capability, this college is in need of material support from Unesco and from the United Nations Interim Fund for Science and Technology for Development. At this point we should like to mention the assistance which Unesco has made available and still makes available to the University of Aden. The Organization could broaden the scope of its support and co-operation with Democratic Yemen in the field of science and technology in accordance with the country's needs by participating in the following areas: (i) education and training in the marine sciences; (ii) specialized training at the postgraduate level for engineers and techni- cians; (iii) integrated rural development, in addition to other activities mentioned in the sections of the Unesco programme devoted to the application of science and technology to development.
(32.12) With regard to culture and communication, Mr President, we support the proposals presented in Chapter 4 of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983 which has been sub- mitted by the Director-General of Unesco. Democratic Yemen has undertaken Project No. 88, which is concerned with the saving of the monuments of Shibam in Hadramawt. On this occa- sion we should like to ask Unesco to undertake an international campaign to save the cul- tural and historic heritage of the people of Yemen, which is part of the heritage of man- kind, and which is in danger of being lost for ever.
(32.13) Information also plays an extremely important role in the societies of the con- temporary world. It is also a means of contact between peoples and an instrument of mutual understanding and knowledge between nations. It is unjust that the developing nations should continue to be an information market for the advanced nations, which enjoy a mono- poly position, and be mere consumers of data. Consequently, Democratic Yemen supports the establishment of a new world information order which would institute justice, balance and effectiveness for all states in the field of information and communication. Such a new       information order will also play a contributing role in the establishment of a new inter- national economic order, which in turn will unquestionably enable the developing nations to provide for their own urgent needs, and thus contribute extensively to their own evolu- tion and rapid development. We support Unesco's efforts in contributing to the strengthen- ing of mutual understanding and better appreciation of the information process, and we appreciate the contribution it makes by providing the aid required for the creation and development of national news agencies, especially in the developing countries. {32 14) In conclusion, Mr President, I cut short these modest remarks concerning the vari- ous political, educational and cultural issues, which needed to be made because our view is that Unesco is the proper setting for tasks of this kind which fall within its purview and arise out of its goals and Constitution. We wish the Organization all success in its future work. Thank you.
33. The PRESIDENT: Ladies and gentlemen, the delegate of the Republic of Korea wishes to exercise his right of reply. I give him the floor.
34.1 Mr WOO SUK HAN (Republic of Korea) : Mr President, it is with deep regret that my delegation had to ask for the floor to exercise the right of reply because a North Korean delegate had made sladerous allegations concerning the internal affairs of our country. My delega- tion deeply deplores that the North Korean delegate saw fit to abuse this impor- tant and valuable international forum as an arena for political propaganda against our country. Such irresponsible attitudes in no way serve the noble aims and objec- tives of this Unesco Conference where we have so many important programmes to dis- cuss for the common benefit of all Member States. My delegation finds it adequate to refer to the valid point made by Mr Ivo Margan, the President of the General Conference on 24 September: "Unesco is not a place for ideology or politics, but a forum for dialogue and international co-operation".
34.2 It is ridiculous and absurd that the delegate of North Korea, where there are no human rights at all and whose regime has a reputation for harsh repression against its own people, has raised the so-called repression of human rights in my country.
34.3 The allegations made by the North Korean delegate concerning the internal situation of my country are so grossly distorted and fabricated that it is not even worth while replying categorically to those allegations. However, Mr President, I would like to make several points clear. The allegation made by the North Korean delegate on the Kwangju incident is a totally distorted and maliciously fabricated picture of the incident. The Kwangju incident, which was aggravated by some mali- cious agitation elements, reached at one time the point of endangering the internal security of my country. But the incident was quickly calmed down thanks to the quick and efficient intervention of the law enforcement forces, and, as of now, a normal life is being enjoyed by all the citizens of the city.
34.4 The ultimate responsibility for the defence of a nation belongs to the nation itself, and the Republic of Korea, as a sovereign and independent nation, has every right to take measures for its own security and defence including the conclusion of relevant treaties with friendly nations.
34.5 The presence of U.S. Forces in Korea is in accordance with the provisions of the Mutual Defense Treaty between my country and the United States of America. Since the Korean Armistice in 1953, the U.S. Forces in the Republic of Korea have been playing a very important role as a deterrent to the possible outbreak of an- other war in the Korean peninsula. Security on the Korean peninsula is important to maintaining security in East Asia, and thus contributes to global peace. It is to be recalled that the Korean War of 1950-1953, which inflicted such heavy casualties and damage upon the Korean people, was started by the North Koreans when there were no foreign soldiers on the soil of the Republic of Korea.
34.6 Therefore, the argument that the presence of U.S. Forces in my country in- Creases tensions in the Korean peninsula and is detrimental to the reunification process is absolutely distorted and absurd. Tensions in the Korean peninsula per- sist because the North Korean side maintains its warlike policy against the Repub- lic of Korea with its enormous military build-up'which is out of proportion to its defence, and seeks to undermine the security of the Republic of Korea by digging underground invasion tunnels and continuously perpetrating violations of the existing Armistice Agreement in Korea.
34.7 The trial case of Kim Dae Jung is still under review by the appropriate judi- cial authorities of my country and therefore I do not want to elaborate it any further. This again is a matter of domestic concern to us alone.
34.8 The 35 million people of the Republic of Korea, after overcoming all the political and social problems which inevitably ensued as a result of the sudden   death of President Park in October 1979, are now firmly united under the leader- ship of President Chun Doo Hwan. And my government has been launching a series of “important political "social "and economic reforms directed “inter alia, to-fur- ther developing our democratic institutions, social justice and the welfare of all.
34.9 The reunification of my fatherland is the ultimate goal of all the Korean people. My government's basic and consistent policy is to achieve the reunifica- tion of Korea only by peaceful means and through dialogue between the South and North of Korea.
34.10 In this connection I have to inform you with regret that on 25 September the North Korean side again unilaterally suspended the ongoing South-North dialogue at Panmunjum which was the only channel of contacts between the two sides. To con- clude, my delegation earnestly urges the North Korean delegation to desist from using this valuable Unesco forum for its tendentious propaganda campaign against my country and instead co-operate with us in helping build up a favourable atmo- sphere for a more constructive and fruitful North-South talks in Korea in accord- ance with the Joint Communiqué of 4 July 1974. Thank you for your attention.
35. The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of the Republic of Korea. Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is adjourned. The meeting rose at 8.45 p.m. La séance est levée à 20 h.45 Se levanta la sesión a las 20.45 Заседание закрывается в 20 u. 45 мин. ‏oةعاطسلايف.ةسلجلاتعفر go‏