Eighth plenary meeting
26 September 1980 at 3.25 p.m. President: Mr. LUKOKI (Angola) Huitième séance plénière
1.1 Le PRESIDENT,- Mesdames, Messieurs, la huitième séance plénière est ouverte. J'aimerais tout d'abord, au nom de mon gouvernement, remercier la Conférence d'avoir fait à mon peuple l'honneur de l'élire à son Bureau, ce qui me permet cet après-midi d'avoir le privilège de présider la séance.
1.2 J'invite maintenant le Vice-Président de la Commission administrative, 3 nous présenter un rapport spécial sur le point 3 de l'ordre du jour intitulé "Rapport du Conseil exécutif sur les communications reçues des Etats membres invoquant les dispositions de l'article IV.C, paragraphe 8 (c) de l'Acte constitutif".
(2.1) Mr BIGGS (Chile), Vice-Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation from the Spanish): Mr President, at the request of the General Conference, the Administrative Com- mission considered at its second meeting item 3 of the agenda concerning communications received from Member States invoking the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8 (c), of the Constitution.
(2.2) The Commission examined document 21 C/33 and Addendum, in paragraph 5 of which the Executive Board recommends that Nicaragua, Central African Republic and Democratic Kampuchea be authorized to participate in the voting at the twenty-first session of the General Conference. y
(2.3) Three Member States - Chad, Grenada and Mali - sent communications to the Director- General following the meeting of the Executive Board invoking Article IV.C, paragraph 8 (c), of the Constitution. Subsequently, the Commission was informed by the Director-General's representative that the Government of Sierra Leone had sent a communication invoking the same provisions.
(2.4) Having examined the aforementioned recommendations, the Administrative Commission recommends that the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8 (c), be applied to the follow- ing Member States to enable them to exercise the right to vote at the twenty-first session of the General Conference: Central African Republic, Chad, Democratic Kampuchea, Grenada, Mali, Nicaragua and Sierra Leone.
(2.5) A number of Member States, while supporting the recommendation of the Administra- tive Commission, indicated that their support in no way constituted recognition of the Government of Democratic Kampuchea, and it was agreed that their statements should appear in the report of the Administrative Commission. Thank you, Mr President.
3.1 Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le Vice-Président de la Commission administrative de son rapport spécial.
3.2 Puis-je considérer que la Conférence souhaite approuver les recommandations contenues dans le rapport de la Commission ?
4.1 Le PRESIDENT.- Nous reprenons maintenant. le débat de politique générale.
4.2 J'invite S. Exc. le professeur L.H.K. Goma, ministre de l'éducation et de la culture et chef de la délégation de la Zambie, à prendre la parole.
5.1 Mr GOMA (Zambia): Mr President, on behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Zambia, it gives me great pleasure to join my colleagues in congratulating, through you, Mr. Ivo Margan on his election as President of this session. May his leadership ensure that its outcome strengthens the collective efforts of mankind to bring about a better world.
5.2 Mr President, I also wish to congratulate the Director-General, whose con- tinuing able and committed leadership has given added strength to our Organiza- tion. The Director-General and his staff have produced documents for this session which not only reveal administrative and professional thoroughness but also pro- vide important guidelines and substance for our deliberations on major global issues within Unesco's fields of competence.
5.3 We are meeting at a time when the world is confronted with growing inter- national tension, heightened bloc rivalry, the escalation of the arms race, the persistence of regional hot beds of crisis and the creation of new conflicts in areas of vital interest to the superpowers, pockets of colonialism, the occupation of other peoples' lands and the evils of apartheid and racialism. These circum- stances threaten world peace and security, and some of them provide a basis for glaring violations of human rights. The superpowers seem impotent to make signi- ficant progress in averting possible global tragedy; indeed a recent annual survey of the Institute of Strategic Studies in London points to the increasing inability of the two superpowers to.shape and control world events, not only. inthe Third World, but even within their own alliances. The possibly meaningful role that non-aligned countries can play in the search to overcome the present crises must not therefore be underestimated. Against this background, it is an interesting and perhaps significant coincidence that at such a time we are meeting here in Belgrade where that legendary stalwart of the Non-Aligned Movement, the late Pre- sident Josip Broz Tito, had his base in the fight for the cause of freedom, peace, justice and equality for all the peoples of the world.
5.4 As I indicated at the twentieth session of the General Conference, we are distressed by the fact that, while avoiding direct confrontation between them- selves, the superpowers keep alive the many armed conflicts taking place between the small, poor countries of the developing world. The possible emancipation of states from military and political alliances clearly does not suit the interests of the great powers, which strive hard and by every possible means, to frustrate the endeavour. Their stranglehold is causing a great deal of hardship to the small and poor nations concerned. The situation needs to be corrected.
5.5 It is accepted that the greatest threat to mankind today is perhaps the existence and persistent development of devastating nuclear weapons. The nuclear arms race continues. It has been claimed that a growing number of Third World nations are now poised to build potentially deadly nuclear arsenals, that the Possibility of a nuclear showdown is no longer in the realm of fantasy - and that it is likely to be touched off by Third World countries. This latter contention is made by the great powers to absolve themselves from blame for their failure to rid mankind of the nightmare of world-wide nuclear devastation. The blame for the acceleration of the global race for nuclear weapons must be placed squarely on the shoulders of the superpowers. Let us see for ourselves: the principal charter members of the nuclear club continue to stake their security on nuclear deterrents - without living up to their part of the non-proliferation bargain; the major powers have done little to curb their own weapons programmes and the Stockpiling of ever more sophisticated and powerful weapons; even though disarma- ment negotiations go on and on, the superpowers are still at loggerheads, SALT II has not yet been ratified, and a comprehensive test-ban agreement seems very far away.
5.6 The situation with regard to other types of armaments is no better. Weapons industries, the arms race, and the militarization of the world continue and develop at the same time as the voices of good men throughout the world call for a halt to the arms race and an acceleration of efforts for the eventual achievement of general and complete disarmament.
5.7 I wish, therefore, to reiterate what I said at the last session: the great powers carry a heavy responsibility on their shoulders; they must accept the thesis that the real greatness of their power lies in their proving that they are willing and able to save mankind from the death and suffering caused by the wea- pons they develop, produce, possess and supply to others. Otherwise it is impos- sible to distinguish between the really great man and the brute.
5.8“ Mr President, I now tumnm to thé situation in Southern Africa. TI start on a happy note by welcoming the fact that the people of Zimbabwe have now attained their freedom and national independence after a long period of armed liberation struggle. We congratulate them upon their victory, and we welcome the admission of Zimbabwe to our Organization.
5.9 The victory in Zimbabwe has now extended the frontiers of freedom and inde- pendence further in southern Africa. However, the savage repression and oppres- sion of Africans, the massacres of innocent people, wanton political detentions, and the denial of fundamental freedoms and rights to Africans and other non-whites continue to be rife in both South Africa and Namibia under the racist Pretoria regime and the abominable apartheid system. Minority rule and colonialism continue to plague South Africa and Namibia. Moreover, South Africa is using Namibia as a base for wanton acts of aggression against the frontline States of Angola and Zambia.
5.10 Following the victory in Zimbabwe, it is natural that the spotlight should now be focused on Namibia. The United Nations programme to bring Namibia to genuine independence under a government that is freely chosen by the Namibian people offers the best chance of solving the Namibian problem peacefully. The victory of the people of Zimbabwe has proved that no amount of force by the op- pressor or chicanery through bogus internal settlement can prevent a people from choosing the government that is responsive to its real needs and aspirations. It is our firm belief that the people of Namibia, given the chance under the United Nations programme, are more than capable of winning the elections for themselves in thaticountry:
5.11’There is virtually full international ‘consensus in favour of the solution that’ the United Nations plan for Namibia provides. But the South African Govern- ment is bent on creating impediments to the implementation of the plan. South Africa and its supporters are under the delusion that they can exclude the South West Africa People's Organisation (SWAPO) from the solution of the Namibian prob- lem, in favour of a puppet regime, and that they will be able to preserve existing colonial and racist relations in the area. There can be no doubt that freedom and genuine” independence "will come to Namibia --and soon’, at that.” As "an authentic liberation movement, SWAPO cannot lose the battle under any circumstances what- ever the balance of power may be." It-is therefore in'everyone's interest that appropriate pressure should be brought to bear on South Africa, by its Western friends, to co-operate fully with the7United Nations in its” efforts” to”solve- the Namibian problem and thereby bring peace, security and respect for human dignity into that part of the world. For its part, Zambia will continue to give every assistance to the people of Namibia in their relentless struggle, led by SWAPO, against oppression, occupation and colonialism.
5.12 In South Africa itself, the situation is now characterized by the heightened militancy and increased combat capacity of the oppressed African people. The dramatic attack on South Africa's Sasolburg oil-from—-coal complex in May this year, ‘which crippled, if only temporarily, one of the country's most strategic industries, is only one of several cases providing evidence of the current state and direction of the liberation struggle against apartheid and minority rule. The African nationalists are no longer afraid of the much vaunted military superiority of the apartheid regime. At the same time, African and other non-white students are fighting against inferior education, a combat which cannot be separated from the general liberation struggle.
5.13": The’ prospects of a 'racial'blood=bath in"South* Africa dre’ real." But surely the many Western friends of South Africa can play a crucial role in preventing it, should they decide and be willing to do so, by applying their enormous influence to put pressure on that country's regime to change course before it is too late. And time is one commodity which South Africa does not have in abundance.
5.14 The situation in southern Africa thus continues to be a source of grave anxiety. It cannot be allowed to drag on indefinitely. If tension and confronta- tion are to be eliminated and peace established in the region it is necessary to secure the liberation of Namibia and the dismantling of the apartheid structure quickly. The people there want freedom so that they, foo, ‘can turn their attention to national development. As I said at the nineteenth session of the General Con- ference in Nairobi, "the time, efforts and energies now spent on the liberation struggles and the conditions obtaining in that part of our continent prevent those people from benefiting fully from the work of Unesco and other United Nations agen- cies. Thus, progress in the fields of education, science, culture and communica- tion, in the service of those people, is seriously frustrated".
5.15 There is one other disturbing issue which directly affects us in Southern Africa. This is the problem raised by the prospect of the two superpowers jockey- ing for military presence in the Indian Ocean. We deplore any proliferation of bloc conflicts in our area. We therefore appeal to all nations desiring to see a significant reduction of crisis areas and the attainment of lasting peace in the world to support the call to make the Indian Ocean a zone of peace.
5.16 Mr President, I now wish to turn to the vexed question of establishing a new international economic order. It is regrettable that so little progress has been made in this connection. The rich, industrialized countries continue to show a low degree of preparedness for the changes which need to be made in the international economy. There appears to be a deliberate distortion of the concept of a new international economic order which is being projected as a ploy to enrich the poor countries of the developing world at the expense of the now rich indus- trialized countries.
5.17 It is necessary to drive the point home, even if this means stating the obvious again and again. A new order, based on justice, equality and fellowship, must surely be in everyone's interests. It should be emphasized, as was done forcefully at the Havana Non-Aligned Summit Conference, that “the harsh reality of deteriorating conditions for stable and dynamic development is no longer ‘the headache of. the developing countries alone as the least developed and therefore the most vulnerable section of the international community. Today even the highly industrialized nations run the risk of serious discontinuity in their own material advancement". Furthermore, as an authoritative voice has said, "the prosperity of the developed countries is going to become increasingly dependent on the pros- perity of the developing nations, because if the developing nations are not devel- oping fast there will be a shortage of raw materials. There may also be a shortage of demand for the goods of the developed countries". The industrialized countries mst therefore be made to realize that their future growth and stability are in- extricably linked with the Third World. And the facts of global interdependence rationally dictate that the world should make progress on this important matter, at a much greater rate and in more significant ways than hitherto.
5.18 However, if the powerful forces on the world scene which do not want to see a constructive move forward continue with their negative stance, what is the alternative for the developing world? Is the developing world not capable of generating sustained momentum on its own, and somehow move forward, without the co-operation of the rich industrialized countries?
5.19 This leads one to the call for the development of technical co-operation among the developing countries. There is certainly a strong case in favour of a deliberate restructuring of the international economic system within the develop- ing world in order to maximize mutually beneficial ties between and among the developing countries themselves; hence the imperative need for a maximum degree of self-reliance on the part of the developing countries and for more intensive and comprehensive economic co-operation among them. We agree that the more the developing countries develop economic relations among themselves that are benefi- cial and independent of the industrially developed countries which are now unwil- ling to agree to meaningful change, the more the developing countries will become immune to the negative effects of the existing international economic order. Priority should, therefore, be given to those strategies and activities that will enable the developing countries to benefit to the utmost from collective self- reliance. Success in this endeavour may well in the end provide the developing countries with the leverage they need to make a decisive overall change in the world economic order for the benefit of mankind as a whole.
5.20 Mr President, it is against this background that my country reaffirms its support for the efforts that Unesco is making for the establishment and maintenance of peace, the promotion of human rights, the elimination of colonialism and racial- ism, the creation of a climate of public opinion conducive to the halting of the arms race and the transition to disarmament and the establishment of a new inter= national economic order. The study of and reflection on these issues must con-    tinue and be supported with adequate resources. Accordingly, we agree with the substance of documents 21 C/12/ 21-C/13 ‘and: 21 -C/ 14 and; ‘in general, support the draft programme and budget for the next triennium as contained in document 21 C/5.
5.21 In connection with the proposed programme in document 21 C/5, my delegation is particularly pleased that: (a) there is a very marked shift of emphasis toward science and technology; (b) the programme makes ample provision for evaluation, reflection and prospective study so that the Organization can work more effective- ly in future; and (c) the programme is, on the whole, much more concentrated, both in substance and in form.
5.22 Finally, my delegation is satisfied that the preliminary report of the Director-General on the Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989 (document 21 C/4) provides a sufficient basis for the preparation of the Medium-Term Plan concerned. Thank you, Mr President.
6. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Zambie et je donne la parole à S. Exc. M. Aron Pais, ministre de l'éducation et de la science et chef de la délé- gation des Pays-Bas.
7.1 Mr PAIS (Netherlands) : Mr President, Mr Director-General, fellow delegates, speaking in the capital city of Yugoslavia, permit me first to pay tribute to the memory of Josip Broz Tito, Marshal of Yugoslavia. A great statesman and a courageous soldier, Marshal Tito was always a defender of the independence and integrity of nations, whether big or small; and I believe that in a gathering such as this, where all nations, big and small alike, are represented, it is appropriate to honour his courage and his memory.
7.2 Mr President, I would like to deal in my :speech:wi th £ourmtopics : first, contemporary technological developments and their conseguences for the transfer of culture; secondly, the necessity of creating equal opportunities for women and men; thirdly, international communication problems connected with the MacBride Report; and fourthly, cultural minorities. Finally, I shall comment briefly on Unesco policy in general.
7,31 will turn'first ‘to technical developments and their consequences for the transfer of culture. This morning the French Minister of Education made a number of very good remarks on this subject, to which T would add the following. We are in the middle of a technological revolution, especially in the field of micro- electronics and computers, which will be highly significant and far-reaching in its social and cultural consequences. This is particularly true of the transfer of culture, or in other words education. The introduction of micro-electronics is in many respects an event of comparable significance to the invention of the printed book. The increasing use of micro-electronics, with computers frequently employed in combination with other innovations in the field of information tech- nology, is going to change our world radically in many different ways. And al- though it is clear that in the majority of our countries the main priority remains the provision of basic material facilities, consideration of high-technology equipment is also important.
7.4 I therefore believe that it is right to ask this world-wide forum to con- sider the consequences of technological progress for education. The problem is one which will confront all of us sonner or later, in the North, the South, the East and the West. And just as the art of printing has spread to all parts of the world, so we may reasonably expect the new information technology to penetrate everywhere, and much more rapidly. Moreover, it is likely that progress in micro- electronics will be of great significance to the Third World, because it will pro- vide the technology through which the millions of people who until now have been deprived of all forms of education can be reached.
7.5 As the Netherlands Minister of Education, I particularly wish to dwell on the significance of the new technological revolution for education. I believe that it will be necessary to teach computer science and data processing as school subjects, and te introduce them as teaching aids, firstly in order to prepare pupils for a computerized society, and secondly to tailor education better to thelabour market, which will increasingly require technicians in these fields. Even at the primary level, pupils will have to be taught what micro-electronics can do.
7.6 We shall have to teach our young people to stand up for themselves in the society of the future, to resist all attempts to misuse the new technology for the purpose of indoctrination. We shall have to teach our young generations to stand up for themselves so that they will be able to choose as independent, free people, so that they will not be overwhelmed by floods of micro-electronically generated information. We must make technology serve humanity and now allow our- selves to become its prisoner,| and here education has a fundamental role to play.
7.7 Of equal importance is the role which new technologies can play as teaching aids in the process of education itself. We must expect teaching methods and structures to undergo radical change in the coming few years. For example, the present limitations associated with traditional class-teaching methods are going to be eliminated. Greater emphasis will most certainly be placed upon self- education. These developments may open wider opportunities for the education of specific groups in the community, such as cultural or linguistic minorities. These new developments will also be of importance for the education of the handi- capped. But, ladies and gentlemen, it requires imagination and co-ordinated efforts to realize all this.
7.8 Three more remarks in this connection. Firstly, the question of who is going to control the software during these future developments is a key issue. Care will have to be taken to avoid the formation of monopolies of any kind and to pre- vent command of the new technology from being confined to a small élite. It is extremely important that data banks and software should be developed in such a way that spiritual freedom and cultural diversity, both within and between nations, are not undermined.
7.9 Secondly, Mr President, it should be obvious that the problems I have just mentioned will also have to be considered internationally. The Regional Confer- ence of Ministers of Education of Member States of the Europe Region, which took place in Sofia in June of this year, has already pronounced in favour of such an approach. We shall have to operate internationally in research, in studies and in experimentation in order to learn from each other. A start will also have to be made on co-operation between developed and developing countries in this field.
7.10 Finally, a consequence which is of special relevance to Unesco is the posr sibility of education becoming to a considerable extent internationalized. Thanks to telecommunications, educational material will become available everywhere. This is a possible way of helping to realize the principle of the free flow of information as laid down in the Constitution of Unesco and above all in the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference. In my view, it is an extremely good thing that the free flow of information will be brought within the reach of every individual as a result of technological developments. This underlines once again the de- sirability of teaching our young people how to select freely from the vast supply of information.
7.11 The problems I have mentioned are not confined to education, but relate equally to the natural sciences, the social sciences, culture and communication. I am therefore of the opinion that a substantial part of Unesco's programme should be devoted to these questions. A draft resolution to this effect has been sub- mitted by my delegation.
7.12 Mr President, my second subject is the necessity of equal opportunities for women and men. I should like to stress, at this mid-point of the United Nations Decade for Women, that my government considers it to be of the utmost importance that Unesco uses all its weapons in the fight to enhance the status of women. The review of the situation at the World Conference in Copenhagen this year has shown that in some areas the situation of women has actually deteriorated since 1975. For instance the number of women who are illiterate has increased. Unesco's past work was and has always been based on the assumption that in the long run, and I quote: "education will prove to be the most effective channel for achieving equality between men and women and ensuring the full participation of women in development". I firmly believe, therefore, that Unesco should work to overcome the lack of educational opportunities in the world. Despite all the attempts that have been made in many countries to legislate for equal opportunities for men and women, too little has been achieved in practice. In the struggle for women's rights, education, I think, has to play a strategic role. The same holds true, by the way, for the labour market.
7.13 In most countries, nearly all types of formal education are in theory equal- ly accessible to boys and girls, and men and women. What we now have to bring about in practice is the equal participation in education which will lead to full and equal participation in society. Many fine phrases have been devoted to this subject, particularly in recent times, in resolutions and recommendations. Often they have turned out to be no more than pious hopes. In practice, the leading positions in every sector of society are nearly all held by men, while women as a rule bear the burden of bringing up children, and hold the most junior and the most vulnerable jobs.
7.14 Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the "equal rights" movement is to do away with the difference between theory and practice, and to bring about genuine equal- ity for men and women. It would be a serious mistake to regard this movement as a whim or a passing fashion. On the contrary, I consider it to be one of the most significant world-wide movements for cultural change in this century. We should    support the emancipation process both individually as governments and collectively as an international organization, not only for reasons of social justice but also on account of the principle of self-determination of each individual. It will be interesting to exchange experience and results in this field within the framework of Unesco.
7.15 Permit me now to make a comment of a more general nature. The process of achieving equal rights implies above all a new vision of things which has signifi- cant social and economic consequences. Men and women must acquire equal social, economic and political positions, which means the same rights and the same obli- gations, the same opportunities for careers and personal development, the same financial status, the same responsibilities both within and outside the home. Thus, the process of achieving equal rights is one which affects men as well as women. The realization of this vision in practice will have significant social and cultural consequences . It is not, T repeat it is nota matter of improving the position of women within a given social and cultural context, but rather of adapting society to take account of the new position of women and of the actual implementation of equal opportunities for men and women.
7.16 Mr President, it seems to me that it is desirable to reinforce Unesco's programme considerably at this point. The various activities must be better co- ordinated. Above all, we must arrive at a more complete vision of what equal rights for women really signifies. In my opinion, this requires the rejection of outdated and unjust patterns all over the world. Unesco can and should assist in this process at the international level by means of educational activities and use of the media to increase awareness, comparative research and studies in the social sciences and culture. The Netherlands Government will applaud any reinforcement of the programme along these lines. We intend to submit a proposal to this effect.
7.17 Mr President, I now come to my third main theme, a central theme of this General Conference, namely the international relations in the communications field and the Macbride Report. We all know its history. At this stage, therefore, I wish to make a number of remarks which will be brief but, I hope, unequivocal.
7.18 Firstly, let me state with emphasis that my delegation has no need whatso- ever for normative actions by Unesco which might impair the freedom of information.
7.19 Secondly, and let there be no doubt in this connection, the Netherlands will oppose any proposals implying any harm to the principle of a free flow of infor- mation. In this context, I would like to sound a strong note of warning against a reopening of the debate on the so-called Media Declaration of 1978. Such a step might lead to endangering the consensus reached at that time.
7.20 In the third place, the Netherlands Government considers the free flow of information to be an essential condition for shaping international freedom of information and expression as laid down in Unesco's Constitution.
7.21 Lastly, the Netherlands recognizes the legitimate needs and requirements of developing countries for a strengthening of their own communication infrastruc- ture in order that they may obtain a fairer share in the global information flow. My country has shown its preparedness to provide concrete financial assistance in this connection. In the light of the forthcoming debate, the Netherlands will consider a continuation of financial contributions for the next few years. We re- gard a central role of Unesco on this point within the United Nations system to be essential, firstly because this will ensure professionalization, and secondly, because the very scale and variety of Unesco's fields of activities will provide better means of identifying the needs of Member States. Furthermore, our Organi- zation can point to ways of meeting these needs in an effective manner. With these considerations in mind, the Netherlands positively appreciates the results of the Intergovernmental Conference on Communication Development held in April this year, and will submit its candidature for membership of the Intergovernmental Council for the Programme the establishment of which is recommended.
7.22 In this context, I would like to say that the report by the MacBride Com- mission may be considered as a valuable contribution to the formation of inter- national opinion. The Commission has succeeded in identifying a large number of problem areas, and it is highly appreciated by the Netherlands Government that this has been done, in the main, by consensus. My government is, however, well aware of the obstacles mentioned in the report. In so far as these are not formu- lated by consensus, and where they are open to different interpretations, my dele- gation will explain the Netherlands point of view when these matters are dealt with in Commission IV and Working Group I.
7.23 Mr President, the Netherlands delegation will, when discussing the report in the committees and working groups, make constructive proposals. It considers    the deployment of competent non-governmental organizations and professional circles to be necessary. I must conclude, however, that document 21 C/85 contains few practical proposals.
7.24 Lastly, Mr President, we should take the necessary precautions to prevent this subject from becoming politicized, keeping in mind that the ultimate goal must be the furtherance and achievement of a free flow of information. Man has a right to freedom, and freedom of information is an inalienable human right. To impede this freedom is inadmissible.
7.25 Mr President, my fourth main theme, which is an urgent one for many coun- tries, concerns the problems of migrants and their position-in their new home- lands. Quantitative data are available which demonstrate the increasing extent of these population movements. For example, millions have migrated into Western Europe over the last decade, many of them from different cultural and religious backgrounds. The migrants and their families will have to live, to learn and to work in a cultural setting which is completely different from that in which they grew up. Adapting to the new situation will require considerable mental efforts: people will have to learn a new language and new skills, and they will have to acquaint themselves with new life-styles. Since children may do so more smoothly than the older generation, this may give rise to tensions within families. On the other hand, the receiving society must also accustom itself to, and recognize, new traditions, new appearances and new habits in its midst.
7.26 The central issues at stake are closely related to some of Unesco's basic values: respect for cultural identity, freedom of expression, and the intellec- tual and moral solidarity of mankind. I do not propose to enumerate all the activities which are conceivable within Unesco's fields of competence; let me name just two in the field of education: firstly the development of appropriate teaching material, and secondly, special training for teachers. Here again, we should learn from each other's experience. I would suggest that in view of the variety of measures needed to secure the integration of migrants into their new settings, and in order to ensure an integrated approach to these measures within Unesco, this field of activities should be classified under a distinct "objective" in the new Medium-Term Plan of the Organization. The Netherlands will propose a resolution to this effect.
7.27 Mr Chairman, in my final remarks I would like to make a few brief comments on Unesco policy in general.
7.28 Let me first say that, generally speaking, I am in agreement with the Director-General's proposal for a shift in the emphasis of the programme - albeit a rather moderate one — towards the Natural Sciences Sector, in response to an idea arising partly from the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development (UNCSTD). Unesco will have to ensure, however, that this does not result in a shift of emphasis in a technocratic direction.
7.29 Secondly, I am certain that the greater the involvement of professional circles in the preparation and implementation of Unesco's programme, the greater the interest in Unesco that will be taken in its Member States. This would cer- tainly improve the quality of the Organization's work, and I would cordially welcome the fostering of such positive developments.
7.30 Thirdly, I wish to state with some emphasis and very clearly that our Director-General must be able to count on the full co-operation of the Member States in carrying out his duties. In this connection, interference from a Mem- ber State, in violation of its obligations under international law, is completely unacceptable.
7.31 And now for my last words: May I cordially thank our host country, Yugos- lavia, for its marvellous hospitality, which has made it possible to hold this twenty-first session of the General Conference in Belgrade. The organization is commendable. I wish also, although in his absence, to congratulate Dr Ivo Margan on his election as President, and to join in wishing him every success. I do so in the name of the Netherlands and the Netherlands Antilles, which to- gether form the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Thank you.
8. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation des Pays-Bas et je donne la parole à S. Exc. Mme Hertha Firnberg, ministre de la science et de la recherche et chef de la délégation de l'Autriche.
9.1 Mrs FIRNBERG (Austria): Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to pay a    tribute to the memory of the great statesman, Marshal Josip Broz Tito, under whose auspices the invitation to come to Belgrade was extended. I should like, through you, Mr President, to congratulate Mr Ivo Margan on his election to the high office of President of the General Conference. We are indeed very happy to see him presiding over our deliberations since we know of his long and successful association with international co-operation. We are also happy to greet in him the representative of a neighbouring country with which Austria maintains close and cordial relations. I wish to assure him that my delegation stands ready to co-operate with him to make this session of the General Conference a success under his able guidance.
9.2 Allow me also, at the outset, to welcome the representatives of the new Mem- ber States which have joined us for the first time at a General Conference.
9.3 Mr President, this session is very important in many ways. The agenda reflects the ever-growing tasks that our Organization is called upon to assume. These tasks and prevailing world problems are the bases on which we shall identify the course of action that we have to adopt within the guiding principles of the Constitution. It is in this context that my delegation feels that this session is of particular importance for the years to come, and especially for two reasons: the first reason is that at this session we are preparing the ground for the new Medium-Term Plan. This is of utmost significance. While we realize that the plan will be dealt with in detail and eventually adopted by a special session of the General Conference in 1982, we must now establish its main lines. Our discussions at this session will therefore carry great weight. Our second, and particularly important, concern is the election of a new Director-General, who will leave his mark on the drafting and implementation of the new Medium-Term Plan. It gives me great pleasure to note that the new Director-General will be an old friend, whom we have known as a ministerial colleague, with whom we have worked when he was a ranking member of the Secretariat, and who has guided Unesco as Director- General for the past six very difficult years. We have all come to appreciate his total commitment to his task and his untiring efforts to further the ideals of this Organization. We admire his unshakable faith in his ideals, and his un- swerving will to help make this world a better place to live in.
9.4 It seems to me that this Organization has now reached a turning-point, and that the new Medium-Term Plan, which is being drafted at a time when we have to elect a new Director-General, offers great hopes for the future role and acti- vities of Unesco under the leadership of our friend and colleague, Mr Amadou- Mahtar M'Bow. May I also take this opportunity sincerely to thank the Director- General for his great contribution to our common efforts during his first term offi office,
9.5 Mr President, when we consider the evolution of the role of our Organiza- tion from its creation in 1945 until now, then we must acknowledge both the great changes that have occurred since that time and the considerable éflexibility that Unesco has shown in adapting to these changes.
9.6 I sincerely welcome the programme and budget presented to us as a move in the right direction. We note a sizeable reduction in the total number of programme activities as well as a remarkable increase in the resource allocation per pro- gramme action. While we are happy to see Unesco take this course, it is my belief that we can still do more to give the Organization the impact it should have of international affairs.
9.7 As I see it, Unesco should play its full part against the background of the central and overriding problems of development. It is our firm conviction that the key to our future, and indeed to that of this Organization, lies in our un- derstanding of the challenge represented by the conditions in which the greater part of the population of this world lives. If we are to be successful in our endeavours, we must, continue to be faithful to the mandate of this Organization, concentrate on the task at hand, and avoid the pitfalls of political controversy and sterile debate. What I am saying here is by no means revolutionary; to a large extent document 21 C/5 is inspired by these considerations. However, I feel that I have to stress that it is also against the background of the "Marshall Plan for Development", as proposed by Chancellor Kreisky, and problems which are analysed in the Brandt Report, that we must find, under our mandate, the way in which we can most effectively contribute to an improvement of the lot of mankind. Indeed we must realize that the poverty and deprivation of the great majority of mankind cannot be ignored without tragic consequences for all.
9.8 We are convinced that, by co-operating unreservedly on practical problems within Unesco, we can make the best possible contribution towards improving the political climate and thus towards promoting understanding and friendship among peoples. Furthermore, it is my impression that Member States understand the important role that Unesco can play in the North-South Dialogue.
9.9 We are fully aware of the paramount importance of Unesco's development efforts, and we think that the introductory chapter of document 21 C/4 makes the magnitude of the tasks lying ahead of us abundantly clear. The second Medium- Term Plan, whose basic structure we will discuss at this session, must reflect the main problems that mankind faces. I should like to list a series of possi- bilities that come to mind in this context: the communication development sector, the extensive programmes to reduce illiteracy (where we applaud the initiatives of the Director-General), the science sector (about which I would like to speak later on) and the importance of programmes related to cultural identity. Unesco can indeed help to find that cultural identity which gives people dignity.
9.10 In dwelling on the further orientation of the Medium-Term Plan, I have also tried to answer the other question on which were asked to speak, namely Unesco's > contribution to the establishment of a new international economic order, for it has become clear that economic development must be accompanied by appropriate cul- tural and educational development.
9.11 Among other things, the Executive Board has invited us to express our views, in our statements, on the report of the Director-General concerning the findings of the International Commission for the Study of Communication Problems. I do this with great pleasure, since I share the views held by the Director-General on this problem. While I fully concur with his presentation I should like to add a few remarks. We appreciate the Commission's efforts to give a comprehensive des- cription of the present state of affairs in the communication field. A chapter that struck me particularly relates to the essential factor of the freedom of information as a prerequisite for a democratic system as we understand it. We feel that this aspect cannot be stressed too much. The freedom of information is an accepted part of international law. The report contains a clear and con- vincing presentation of the interrelationship between democracy and freedom of information. We can recognize the sincerity of the Commission in tackling the complex problem entrusted to them.
9.12 Another important aspect of the MacBride Report is the emphasis it places on communications as an important element in the development of nations and the view that communication should no longer be regarded as an incidental service but that its potential should warrant the formulation, particularly by developing countries, of comprehensive communication policies. This new awareness, which is also reflected in the results of the Yaoundé Conference of last July, is, I think, an important achievement and the crux of the matter. The challenge that we have to take up is to promote communication policies as an important element of develop- ment, while guaranteeing the freedom of information as one "of democracy's most precious acquisitions and ... at the same time as a vital safeguard of democracy" (I quote from the MacBride Report). Our conclusion would be that the Intergovern- mental Programme for the Development of Communication that we are going to set up is probably an effective way of tackling the problem: strengthening the infra- structure of developing countries through a multilateral framework with the aim Of creating a community of equal partners that abide by the same rules.
9.13 A question to which we attach particular importance is that of human rights. I do not want to mention our past record in this respect. However, I should like to say that as a sequel to the 1978 Vienna International Congress on the Teaching of Human Rights the Austrian delegation will introduce a proposal for a follow-up conference to review results and the implementation of the goals set at the time. We should also like to draw attention to the need to contribute to the Voluntary Fund for the Development of Knowledge of Human Rights through Teaching and Infor- mation, essential if we wish to translate into reality the draft plan for the development of human rights teaching. On the whole, the Austrian Government is very much impressed by the increasing role this Organization plays in the human rights field, a development which is also due to the leadership of the Director- General. Apart from the human rights programme in document 21 C/5 1 Should 3150 like to point out the effective and discreet manner in which the Committee on Con- ventions and Recommendations of the Executive Board is solving human rights probs lems of a practical nature. Again we appreciate the helpful role played by the Director-General in these endeavours, and the painstaking efforts of the members of the Committee. We shall do whatever is in our power to strengthen its role. In supporting the cause of human rights, our primary objective is to help the individual. At the same time, we believe that this also contributes to the maintenance of world peace.
9.14 With reference to the science sector, my delegation is happy to note that Unesco has responded, within its sphere of competence, to the Vienna Conference on Science and Technology for Development (UNCSTD) by increasing the allocations for this sector. The increase, about twice as much as that for the programme as a whole, is timely and welcome. We hope that tnis trend will "also be reflected in the next Medium-Term Plan. We also approve of the initiative regarding eight major regional projects. In speaking of the science sector I should also mention    our interest in strengthening the European Office for Scientific Co-operation. We feel that a new organization of its activities might increase its output, and at the same time provide valuable impulses for the activities of the other regional sectors as well as the basis for interregional projects. In the same way as we feel that Unesco as a whole should concentrate to a greater extent on scientific matters, we arc ready to strengthen our own commitment in this respect under the auspices of Unesco. We very much agree with the Organization's approach to energy matters, and are sure that Unesco will play an important role in contributing to the success of the United Nations Conference on New and Renewable Sources of Energy, to be held in Nairobi in 1981.
9.15 While we make this positive evaluation of the future of the science sector let me, however, say that we continue to regard the education and cultural sectors as essential to the very concept upon which Unesco is based. These sectors are indeed essential, and the indispensable basis for any scientific and technological development.
9.16 Mr President, the Executive Board and the Director-General in their state- ments and documents have urged delegations not to insist unduly, during the general policy debate, on national achievements or ongoing activities, but rather to con- centrate on important matters relating to the general policy of the Organization. I abide by this request, but should like to say that, since the last General Con- ference, we have concentrated our efforts on programmes involving science journa- lism with the aim of increasing understanding of scientific problems and achieve- ments. May I also mention, in this context, an initiative designed to ensure easier access to technical know-how; I refer to the International Information Centre for Patents (INPADOC) in Vienna.
9.17 We have also been active in the Man and the Biosphere programme (MAB), and in the International Hydrological Programme to which we have devoted considerable resources. In particular, we have been organizing courses on groundwater tracing techniques and limnology. Let me add that we are also actively participating in the International Geological Correlation Programme; I refer in this context to the traditional courses in mineral prospection and geological science in Austria. Al- though conceived within the framework of our national development effort, all these programmes are being conducted in fulfilment of the mandate of this Organization.
9.18 Before concluding, Mr President, allow me to reaffirm the Austrian commit- ment to the security and independence of international civil servants. May I state in this connection that we whole-heartedly support the Director-General in all his efforts to this end. We are convinced of the need for all governments to respect the independence of the international civil service, as a pre-condition for the functioning of co-operation among nations. Indeed, sincere and unreserved co-operation in a spirit of give and take, without regard to the many differences and outlooks that naturally exist among human beings, is our sole guarantee for the future of mankind. Thank you, Mr President.
10. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de l'Autriche et je donne la parole à S. Exc. M. Tatsuo Tanaka, ministre de l'éducation et chef de la délégation du Japon.
11.1 Mr TANAKA (Japan) — (Speech delivered in Japanese, English text supplied by the delegation) : Mr President, through you and on behalf of the Japanese delegation, I should like to offer warmest congratulations to Dr Ivo Margan on his election as Presi- dent of this session of the General Conference. I hope most sincerely that, under his outstanding leadership and with active and constructive discussions, this ses: sion will be crowned with success.
11.2 I find it greatly significant that with the aim of exploring new perspec- tives for the future development of Unesco, all of us should be gathered here for this session in Yugoslavia, a meeting-place of civilizations from ancient times and a country so rich in cultural diversity. Tr should like to express my deep gratitude to the government and people of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for the hosting of this Conference.
11.3 1 should also like to take this opportunity to offer the Yugoslavian people our profound condolences on the demise of President Josip Broz Tito, who was not only the country's founding father but who also contributed immensely to world peace and stability; furthermore let me pay most sincere tribute to the Yugosla- vian people who have, in accordance with the wishes of their late President, been working vigorously to develop their country further and to promote world peace, always firmly adhering to their position of non-alignment.
11.4 I should also like to welcome heartily the delegations of Dominica, Equator- ial Guinea, Botswana, Sao Tome and Principe, Saint Lucia, the Maldives, Zimbabwe and the Kingdom of Tonga, all of which have joined Unesco since the last session of the General Conference.
11.5 I should further like to express my sincere gratitude to Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, the Director-General, and to the staff of the Secretariat for the untiring efforts they have made in preparing for this session, including the drafting of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983 and other Conference documents.
11.6 Mr President, international society is, today, confronted with a number of problems of the utmost gravity — the problem of millions of refugees left in in- describably miserable circumstances, the problem of hunger and poverty from which a great multitude of people in the developing countries are stiiW unablertorextri- cate themselves, and the energy crisis that produces a most serious obstacle to the stabilization and growth of the world economy. All these problems are so difficult that it will hardly be possible to cope with them in the absence of co- operation and solidarity, particularly between the developed and the developing nations. I am firmly convinced that the establishment of intellectual and spiri- tual solidarity among the peoples, based on respect for humanity, is of the utmost importance in finding solutions to these problems. And this is exactly what is called for in the basic ideals of the Constitution of Unesco.
11.7 For more than 30 years, Unesco has consistently played a vital role, through its educational, scientifie and cultural activities, in the furtherance of mutual understanding and co-operation among its Member States. I should like to empha- size here that given an international situation such as that which exists today, it is all the more necessary for Unesco to reflect on its basic ideals and to avoid any political approach which might run counter to them and merely serve to increase hostility. I believe that the Organization must devote itself to activities in keeping with its fundamental raison d'être.
11.8 Mr President, I should now like to make some comments on Unesco's-Pro- gramme and Budget for 1981-1983 in the light of the basic stand taken by Japan, to which I have just referred.
11.9 Firstly, I should like to touch upon the budget. I am not always opposed to an increase in this connection. However, considering the fact that Unesco's budget is financed, in great part, by the contributions of the Member States, it is important to take full account of the very difficult situation facing the world economy today. Under the circumstances, I consider that Unesco should endeavour more actively than ever to restrain the growth of the regular budget as far as possible, through the rationalization of its programmes and the adoption of other positive steps for the effective utilization of its limited resources.
11.10 From this standpoint, we owe debt of gratitude to the Director-General for his great contribution to the concentration of the Organization's programmes, and I should like to ask him to make a further effort to select Unesco's programmes on a more rational basis and on a stricter priority basis, both in the Draft Pro- gramme and Budget for 1981-1983 and in the Draft Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989. I earnestly desire that, in so doing, the Director-General will fully bear in mind the following four points:
11.11 Firstly, concentration on those types of programmes which are within the proper scope of Unesco's competence, and through which the Organization could make a unique contribution.
11.12 Secondly, the avoidance of programmes on which views among the Member States are likely to be so greatly divided, due to differences in their respec- tive political positions, that “there ‘ig ‘little hope for securing a consensus.
11.13 Thirdly, priority for programmes likely to have a catalytic effect, and to produce considerable results at limited cost; emphasis particularly with regard to programmes directed to developing countries, on such programmes as may foster their self-reliant efforts and help to further their endogenous development.
11.14 Fourthly, the avoidance, when drawing up and implementing Unesco's pro- grammes of unnecessary duplications, through constant attention to co-ordination with other international organizations; and the avoidance of ‘duplication in‘pro- grammes among the different sectors of the Unesco Secretariat itself.
11.15 Although, in the past, Japan has always called attention to the importance of the points just mentioned, I should like to take advantage of this opportunity to ask the Director-General to accord them even greater attention.
11.16 With regard to the programmes proposed by the Director-General, the follow- ing are considered invaluable, in so far as they reflect approaches commensurate with the requirements outlined above; Japan consequently supports such activities: the expansion of programmes aimed at the promotion of cultural identity and the furtherance of self-reliant efforts and endogenous development, such as regional educational innovation programmes, various regional programmes in the natural sciences, and the series of cultural co-operation programmes, including programmes related to the conservation of cultural heritages; the increase of budgets for Participation Programmes primarily based on the initiative and participation of the Member States concerned. I would add to this list of important activities the process of decentralization which the Director-General has been so energeti- cally pursuing with the aim of improving the efficiency of the Organization's programmes.
11.17 Mr President, I should now like to set out my views concerning the prob- lem of communication, which is one of the major topics at this session of the General Conference. Let me first pay sincere tribute to the International Com- mission for the Study of Communication Problems, of which Mr Sean MacBride is Chairman, for having completed such a voluminous final report on the subject after two years of painstaking research. I consider that Unesco should press ahead more vigorously than ever, with the full consensus and active co-operation of the Mem- ber States, in appropriate measures relating to communication, and more particu- larly in effective steps to correct imbalances in the development level of com- munications media and to regularize the international flow of information.
11.18 It is particularly important in this connection to ensure that the freedom of speech, expression and reporting is. guaranteed. May I recall the Declaration on the Mass Media adopted at the last session of the General Conference, which emphasized that this freedom is "an integral part of human rights and fundamental freedoms" and is "a vital factor in the strengthening of peace and international understanding"; and may I stress here again that it is of paramount importance for Unesco, in implementing international measures concerning communication, to ensure that those measures will not lead to the governmental control of the free- dom of speech, expression and reporting, or - more particularly - to the intervention of authorities in the activities of journalists and information media.
11.19 Mr President, I should now like to make a few comments on the United Na- tions University, whose headquarters is in Japan. First of all, I heartily wel- come the adoption by the Executive Board at its 110th session, held shortly before this session Of the General Conference, of a decision concerning the strengthening of support for the United Nations University and the encouragement of contributions by Member States to its Endowment Fund. This decision was taken after a lively and constructive discussion of the University's present situation and future prospects, on the basis of the annual report presented by the Council of the University and the Director-General's own report.
11.20 Mr President, the United Nations University continues to move forward under the leadership of Mr Soedjatmoko, who recently assumed the rectorship in succession to Dr Hester, the first Rector, who retired this month after fulfilling very heavy responsibilities during the University's early days. I recently had the opportunity of talking with Rector Soedjatmoko, and I was deeply impressed by his lofty ideals and by his firm confidence in the future of the University.
11.21 I should like to take advantage of this opportunity to reaffirm Japan's consistent position of support for and co-operation with the United Nations Uni- versity, and at the same time - as the delegate of the University's host country - to express my earnest hope that, with the inauguration of the new Rector to give fresh momentum, Member States will step up their co-operation with the University, including contributions to its Endowment Fund; I am convinced that such co- operation will be of great service to the further development of the University's activity. Furthermore, and in view of the fact that this activity has a very important bearing on Unesco's objectives, I believe it vitally important for the Organization to maintain close and co-operative relations with the University in order to achieve their common objectives.
11.22 Mr President, at this session, we shall deliberate on a number of import- ant subjects, including the Programme and Budget for 1981-1983, the Director- General's preliminary report on the second Medium-Term Plan and the problems related to communication. The Japanese delegation will participate actively in the debates on the various items of the agenda from the basic standpoint which I mentioned at the outset of my speech.
11.23 The general framework of Unesco's programmes for the three years beginning in 1981 is to be determined during the current session. My country is resolved to participate and collaborate in every possible way in programmes for intellectual interchange and co-operation which may adequately satisfy the real needs of all        the Member States, irrespective of their particular stages of development. In this regard, Japan will place particular emphasis on support for programmes aimed at reinforcing the endogenous capabilities of the developing countries, such as the Asian Programme of Educational Innovation for Development (APEID), the pro- gramme for regional co-operation in basic science in South-East Asia, and the cultural co-operation programmes in Asia.
11.24 In addition, Japan is resolved to fulfil its responsibility in-joint-en- deavours for the educational, scientific and cultural advancement of the develop- ing countries, and particularly in efforts for the development of human resources in these countries.
11.25 Mr President, let me conclude by expressing the hope that Unesco will continue vigorously to promote intellectual co-operation among the governments and peoples of all the Member States, in order to lay a more solid foundation for yet greater development for mankind in the future; and that - to that end - the Organization will awake to a greater awareness of the importance of its own role, that it will return to its fundamental ideals, and that it will transcend whatever differences may exist between nations in political systems and in ways of thinking. Thank you, Mr President.
(13.1) Mr ZLITNI (Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (Translation from the Arabic): Mr President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, it gives me great pleasure to greet you on behalf of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, on the occasion of the holding of the twenty-first session of the General Conference of this Organiza- tion. It also gives me great pleasure to welcome the States which have joined this Organization for the first time. In addition, I should like to wish our President and his distinguished Vice-Presidents every success in presiding over this Conference.
(13.2) At the same time, I am honoured to be the bearer, along with my colleagues, the other members of the delegation, of greetings from the Libyan Arab people to the Government and people of the friendly country of Yugoslavia. We offer our admiration for the excellent work that has gone into the preparations for hosting this Conference. What we have seen at close range in this country in the course of the past few days constitutes evidence that free peoples, regardless of differences in their cultures, can work miracles in the sphere of material progress and in achieving peace and social stability.
(13.3) Mr President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, I must also, on this occa- sion, extend greetings on behalf of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya to Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, the Director-General of this Organization, and congratulate him for his excellent administration of Unesco, with the collaboration of the dis- tinguished Executive Board. I should also like to compliment Mr M'Bow on the resounding success encountered by the programmes previously approved by the General Conference, and to praise him for the sincere efforts he has made, and continues to make, to affirm the mission and Constitution of this Organization and to enrich its admirable human dimensions, in a world dominated by perilous conflict, in which the gulf between rich and poor is deepening, while every day mankind draws nearer to the danger of annihilation through war. In the address which he delivered at the opening of this session, and in
511    the report which he submitted on the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983, the Director-General stressed the continuing state of tension and unease and the threat of confrontation characterizing the current world situation. He ‘also warned us of the danger of the arms race, which presents a particular threat to world peace and which, by its nature, tends to impede the efforts of this international Organization and peace- loving states. When we try to put our finger on the causes of this tension and unease, we find that they lie hidden, basically, in the fact that some States continue wilfully to ignore, most unfortunately, one crucial fact, which is that the human community is made up of nations, and that world peace can be achieved only through the existence of those nations, which are bound together, first and foremost, by the social bond we call humanity. There are nations which pretend to be unaware of other nations' rights to existence and independence, and their right to build their identity as their own free will may dictate. We shall not achieve world peace by going on expressing our faith in the protection afforded by our international organizations alone; we must take effec- tive action within the context of the general policy of Member States in the fields of education, communication and all aspects of teaching and human development. Those States which close their eyes to these facts are ready enough to recognize other matters, matters which aim at the crushing of brotherhood and cordiality between nations, and consequently leave scope for fewer opportunities for peace in the world. This in turn means that all mankind is threatened with complete annihilation, unless sincere and honest efforts are made to restore equilibrium, beginning with the formulation of new concepts of the pre- servation of individual and international freedom, and the construction of new foundations for enhancing the awareness of ordinary people and helping them to realize that they have a direct responsibility in the maintenance of world peace.
(13.4) Mr President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ever since the revolution broke like a wave over the land of Libya, it has put man first. And this is not surprising inasmuch as it is a revolution of man for the sake of freedom and for the sake of final emancipation from all forms of domination, subjection, exploitation and servitude. This is clearly manifest in the educational programmes and policies which have been extended to all the inhabitants of the Jamahiriya, wherever they may be. That endeavour has involved the use of all means and resources, including the building of new schools and other institutions and making use of mobile classrooms in an effort to make the opportu- nity of education available to every citizen, male or female, and also implementing the compulsory-education law, which makes education a right and duty for all Libyans from the age of six until completion of the preparatory level.
(13.5) In the course of the past ten years, these policies and programmes have been extended to include all children of school age, and all the necessary educational and training facilities have been made available to them. The number of children enrolled in schools at various levels has risen from 329,000 boys and girls in the 1968-1969 school year to over one million boys and girls at the beginning of the current school year; this figure represents approximately 34 per cent of the entire population of the Jamahiriya.
(1346) In addition, more schools have been built, despite the fact that our population is dispersed over a wide area, and the average class size in the middle of 1979-1980 was approximately 26 pupils. We are trying to improve on that figure by building new classrooms. We have also built institutes for teachers, both male and female, as well as colleges of education to increase the supply of male and female teachers available to work at all levels in the school system. The number of pupils taught by each teacher in the 1979-1980 school year was 21 on the average, a figure which we still regard as too high; we should like to bring it down to approximately 17 on average by the end of the current five-year plan.
(13.7) Educational planning and the implementation of educational programmes are pro- ceeding in the context of the general planning for major economic and social changes called for in the 1983-1985 three-year plan and the 1976-1980 five-year plan. Total outlays under these two plans for all economic sectors amount to the equivalent of $32 billion. Of this amount, appropriations for general education, technical, vocational and professional education and university and higher education programmes account for the equivalent of $2 billion, while, in addition the equivalent of $4.5 billion has been earmarked for the education sector in the form of direct services during this period.
(13.8) Educational programmes in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya have sought to concentrate on the qualitative side, with the objective of enhancing the efficacy of the educational process. As a result concern is being paid to the development of curricula and textbooks and the production and use of teaching materials. Attention has also been devoted to school activities, programmes for gifted pupils, the handicapped, more kindergartens, and other matters related to education which have a part to play in raising the level of achievement in the educational process.
(13.9) Mr President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, at this session we shall be dealing, in the course of our debate on the general policy of this Organization, with a number of important questions which this international assembly must face courageously and objectively. The most serious of the questions with which our Organization is con- fronted at this session is the necessity of opposition, more resolute opposition than hitherto, to the crimes and inhuman practices in which the forces of colonialism and racism continue to engage at the expense of the cultures and heritage of helpless peoples and human communities. Foremost among these are the Palestinian people, whom the Zionist authorities daily subject to practices designed to obliterate their indigenous national culture, deliberately impairing, quantitatively and qualitatively, the level of education, in the occupied Arab territories and carrying out an unmistakable Judaization process affecting educational philosophy, curricula and books. The purpose of all this, quite clearly, is to weaken the Palestinian student's ties with his land, its history, and its Arabic and Islamic culture. Despite repeated resolutions adopted by this Organization at the eighteenth, nineteenth and twentieth sessions of the General Conference, and in the Executive Board, decisions affirming the right of the inhabitants of the occupied
512        Arab territories to a national education and cultural life, despite Unesco's assumption of the responsibility of exercising full and continued supervision of educational and cultural institutions in the occupied Arab territories, co-operating to that end with the Arab states and the Palestine Liberation Organization, the Zionist authorities have calmly disregarded these resolutions and have proceeded to close schools and universities, arrest and shoot students, and deprive teaching staff at schools, institutes and colleges in the occupied Arab territories of their ‘academic freedom and mobility. The Zionists have sabotaged the curricula and classes necessary for the teaching of Arabic, history and Islamic religion; they have denied entry to Unesco-approved books, and they have refused to accept the presence of a permanent Unesco representative to supervise educa- tional and cultural institutions in the occupied territories.
(13:10) Our General Conference is also faced at this session, Mr President, with other challenges to international agreements and the Unesco Constitution in the field of the preservation and protection of the world's cultural heritage of archaeological remains possessing historic or scientific significance. This further challenge is epitomized in the acts committed by the Zionist entity in the Holy City of Jerusalem, removing cul- tural property, abusing it, destroying it, disfiguring it and changing the cultural, political, legal and human features of the Arab city of Jerusalem. These acts are being committed, Mr President, as an overt challenge to all the resolutions and recommendations concerning the city of Jerusalem that have been adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations, and by the General Conferences and the Executive Board of Unesco, which there is not time to enumerate in detail on this occasion.
(13.11) Mr President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, it is no surprise that the Zionist entity should be persisting in its flagrant violations of international agreements, resolutions and recommendations. What is cause for astonishment is the fact that these violations should be continuing without any courageous counteraction which would serve to maintain the dignity of this Organization and the credibility of the mis- sion with which it is charged, disregarding the political pressures exerted by certain states which support this insolent entity.
(13.12) Mr President, my country's delegation applauds the sincere efforts which this Organization is making to help the world's people affirm their freedom, shake off ex- ploitation and assert control of their human capabilities and economic resources, despite the failure of some of the attempts made in this area, including the debates of the United Nations General Assembly at its most recent Special Session, which failed to achieve any tangible results concerning what is known as the North-South dialogue. The reason for that failure was the continuing refusal of the industrial states to recognize the rights of the developing states.
(13.13) The current international economic situation weighs hard on weak countries and developing countries which have abundant natural resources and raw materials: it forces them into repeated vicious circles of exploitation and the draining off of their resour- ces at low prices. This gives the industrialized nations a monopoly position in inter- national trade, with the outmoded international payments systems which this involves, so that those nations are able to take advantage of the developing countries' need for certain manufactured goods or modern technological equipment. The delegation of my country believes that the. promotion of a new world economic order will require the Organization to intensify its efforts to extend technical and vocational education throughout the world, without discrimination. For knowledge is a part of human rights, and it is the means whereby the shackles of monopoly and exploitation will be broken. It is also necessary to stress the awakening and spreading of spiritual and moral values in educational and cultural programmes, so that men everywhere may come to understand that they were not put here on earth to achieve quantitative and qualitative increases in average consumption - not even at the expense of weaker countries!
(13.14) The world needs more than a new economic order; it needs a new international cultural order as well, and this is no less important than the economic order for which the international community is striving so vigorously, because if such an international cultural order were achieved, the establishment of a new economic order would be no difficult matter. The new international economic order must be accompanied by a new international cultural order having the following goals: to firmly implant the principle of freedom and equality, not only as between nations but as between individuals within a single national community, without any discrimination based on faction, party or class; to make the broad masses of the people aware of the meaningful role they have to play in the construction of human society and to help them take up that role by creating the necessary cultural climate; to create a world cultural environment which will condemn exploitation and respect independence; to instil those concepts of brother- hood on which the existence of the nations constituting mankind depends; to emphasize that the cultures of different nations are equally valid and equally significant and to give them the right of self-expression outside their original societies; and to seek to propagate a human morality based on spiritual principles in accordance with the will of the Creator of mankind.
(13.15) Mr President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, the delegation ef my country whole-heartedly supports the Organization's efforts to create appropriate con- ditions in the fields of education, the social sciences, culture and communication, its efforts to end discrimination against women and to enable women to achieve effective participation in social life and development activities, and its efforts to promote the principles of equal rights between men and women, particularly with regard to the elim- ination of barriers preventing girls and women from enjoying equal opportunities in the field of education and training. Educational policy in the Jamahiriya has tirelessly, eagerly and solicitously striven to provide girls with equality of opporutnity in edu- cation and training, and hence with opportunities to work and to assume a positive partnership role in the development of our society. This policy has resulted in the accession of women to education at a remarkable rate. In the course of approximately    ten years, the numbers of males and females at the various levels of education have become nearly equal. In the 1968-1969 school year, girls accounted for 29 per cent of all students at the different levels of general education. By the 1979-1980 school year this proportion had leaped to over 45 per cent, and by the beginning of this year it was approaching the 50 per cent mark. This same period has witnessed a steady increase in the numbers of women teachers who have found employment in primary and preparatory- level education. Suffice it to say that over 40 per cent of all general-education teachers in the Jamahiriya are women. As a Muslim country, the Jamahiriya takes the Holy Qur'an as its law, and the truth of Islam as its course and procedure in so doing, daily emphasizing the change of outmoded social concepts which impede women from emerging to assume their true and effective place in the life of a society. Libyan women today stand on a footing of equality with men. Not only do they enjoy equality in education, they also share power equally through the People's Conferences and People's Committees, they share sources of income and wealth equally by striving for appropriate kinds of productive work, and they share weapons equally through appropriate training designed to prepare them to defend their freedom.
(13.16) Mr President, just as we support the efforts which the Organization is striving to promote, encourage and participate in, efforts to improve the situation of women and create circumstances in the fields of education, the social sciences, culture and com- munication which will help to eliminate discrimination against women, we also wish to utter a warning against the consequences of pushing women into entering areas of a society's life and development which are contrary to the role which they are naturally fitted to play in life. Motherhood and the care of children constitute a function which is natural for women. A woman who has to do work which makes her unable to fulfil her natural function is not free but compelled - of necessity, since a person can be free only when doing what he needs to do. To compel a woman to do a man's work is to engage in an unjust aggression against her basic nature, whereby she is fitted for a natural and essential purpose in life. It is the task of society to provide all individuals, men and women, with work which they are able to do and which they need, but on condition that each individual works in a field suited to him or her, without being arbitrarily compelled to do work for which he or she is not suited.
(13.17) Mr President, in setting out to establish major programmes concerned with the education of women and their participation in the life of our society, we must affirm these important human principles. Freedom consists in every individual's learning what is suitable for him and will qualify him for work that is suitable for him; tyranny con- sists in an individual's learning what is not suitable for him and will lead him to work which is not suitable for him. Work which is suitable for a man is not always work which is suitable for a woman, and knowledge which is suitable for a child is not the same as knowledge which is suitable for an adult. This is not to imply any dis- crepancy in the human rights of men and women, or children and adults, but at the same time it is not to say that they are altogether the same in respect of the duties they must undertake.
(13.18) Mr President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, my country's delegation vigorously supports the efforts undertaken by the Organization, thanks to the energy of its Director-General, in relation to information and the problems of communication. Certainly modern information and communication media can play an important role in the area of’ solidarity within the international family, on a basis of clear understanding of crises and problems and starting from the goals of this Organization, by working to prepare an environment in which the international community can live in peace and in accordance with the spirit of cordial relations and good-neighbourliness. Those media can also perform useful services thanks to the speed and efficiency with which they can be used to disseminate educational, scientific and cultural programmes for develop- ment that are tailored to the needs of the developing countries. My country is aware of the importance of this work, and considers that Unesco is the organization best able to assume the responsibility of supervising programmes of information and communication between members of the international family on objective and scientific bases and main- taining mutual respect for different cultures, with no group or class being made sub- servient and without promoting the worldly interests of anyone, but rather by advancing those human values and principles which are conducive to the prosperity and happiness of mankind.
(13.19) We in the Jamahiriya have undertaken many projects in the field of information and communications. The most recent of them was the construction of a ground receiving and transmitting station for satellite communications. Work is now proceeding on the setting up of a local network which will cover all parts of the Jamahiriya from that station and from other communications media, both wire and wireless. A joint approach through Unesco requires the formulation of an international information and communica- tions programme in the developing countries, in the form of an international fund to be financed and supported by the international community from a variety of sources, and to be supervised by a special council made up of states members of the Organization. The exercise of this supervision must be characterized by the principle of complete democracy.
(13:20) Mr President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya will always insist that world solidarity is incompatible with the problem of the arms race in all its forms, because of the threat to peace and the wastage and dissipation of human and natural resources which that race represents. In the absence of true peace it will be difficult, Mr President, to imagine a world in which the human spirit is dominant, in which justice has replaced relationships of in- justice, in which freedom and equality prevail, regardless of differences of culture, colour or opinion, and in which all mankind enjoys genuine prosperity and happiness. While there are some who defend the arms race on the ground that it preserves a balance and peace, we say that, on the contrary, it leads to imbalances in life and to the appropriation of human and financial resources to ends which overburden the peoples of the world and divert them from the task of working toward solutions to the problems of poverty and ignorance and disease.
(13.21) Mr President, Unesco must concern itself with the question of the arms race by preparing and disseminating educational and cultural programmes which lead to an understanding of the horrors of war and a realization of the vast sums which are wasted on the making of engines of destruction; these programmes must prepare the educational and moral climate which will lead to the emergence of peace and brotherhood in every part of the world and an understanding of the true dimensions of the world's problems. The delegation of my country calls for the conclusion of a cultural agreement to define the bases and dimensions of the school curricula which will be concerned with this subject.
(13.22) Mr President, the delegation of my country expresses its whole-hearted satisfac- tion with the vigorous efforts devoted by the Director-General to the preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983, which in general is wisely and closely in agree- ment with the objectives set by the General Conference at its twentieth session. In particular, we are in agreement with the emphasis which is clearly placed on more inten- sive promotion of activities related to the development of science and technology and the increased stress on the development of endogenous capabilities in the area of scien- tific and technological creativity, as well as on better understanding of the nature of science and technology and their role in a changing society. The delegation of my country also notes with interest the programme related to education, with its renewed attention to and greater stress on the democratization of education and the creation of circumstances conducive to co-operation, mutual understanding and respect for human rights, opposition to all forms of discrimination, promotion of the endogenous develop- ment of societies, and the association of education with work with a view to putting the concept of continuing education into practice. The delegation of my country also is gratified to note the proposals put forward in the Draft Programme and Budget for other activities in the fields of education, the natural and social sciences, and culture and communication; it regards them as fully consistent in intent with the objectives and orientations adopted by the General Conference of Unesco at its last session.
(13.23) Mr President, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya draws attention to resolution 8.4 adopted by the General Conference at its eleventh session, which recognized, in this connection, the importance of the position of the Arabic language as a means of communication of many peoples scattered over more than one continent, since it is the tongue of 20 Member States situated in a region of the world which is distinguished by the originality of its thought and culture and is inhabited by more than 150 million people, and also states, that it is one of the cultural languages of many Islamic peoples representing a total population of over 700 million. The Jamahiriya also draws attention to the resolution adopted by the General Conference at its twentieth session, which called for the necessary action to be taken to give Arabic the same status as the other more widely used working languages and for the planning of concrete action to achieve this end. Accordingly, the Jamahiriya supports the actions indicated in the Draft Programme and Budget (document 21 C/5) concerning wider use of the Arabic language as a working language of the Organization; it regards these actions as the minimum acceptable, and hopes that the Director-General will treat this matter with all the attention it deserves by unremittingly preparing suitable programmes designed to achieve wider use of the Arabic language and to give it, as soon as possible, the same status as that enjoyed by the other official working languages.
(13.24) For these programmes which we shall be considering at this session to be actually implemented in concrete terms, adequate financial appropriations will be required. In this connection, the delegation of my country wishes to express its complete satisfaction with the accounting methods and the logic which characterize the budget figures, and with the resulting estimates. In our view, the setting of the exchange rate, the approach to the impact of inflation and the provision made for unforeseen expenditures are matters of necessity in order to maintain a climate of stability and assurance during”thessucces= sive phases of implementation of these programmes.
(13225) In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to reiterate my country's earnest wish for the success of this Conference in dealing with all the issues with which it is faced, bearing in mind the aspirations of all peoples and adopting resolutions based on right and justice and equality. We should also like to express our thanks and appre- ciation to the Director-General and his colleagues and all those who are working in the secretariat of this Conference for the praiseworthy efforts which they have made and are continuing to make. The peace and mercy of God be upon you.
14. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Jamahiriya arabe libyenne populaire et socialiste et je donne la parole a the Hon. Mrs. Robin Chandler Duke, ambassa- deur et chef de la délégation des Etats-Unis d'Amérique.
15.1 Mrs DUKE (United States of America): Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, although the new President of the twenty-first session of the General Conference is not here, I would like to salute Dr Ivo Margan on behalf of the United States delegation. We join all our colleagues in wishing him well. As a parliamentarian and a doctor of medicine, he combines two rather remarkable talents of wisdom and healing, both of which we welcome. Wisdom we need, healing we hope we will not need.
15.2 Like other speakers before me, I would like to say a word in memory of Marshal Josip Broz Tito and to express my deep regret that he is not with us for this twenty-first session of the General Conference of Unesco. My husband and I had the great honour of getting to know Marshal Tito when he visited our country    in 1962, so I can say with deep personal sincerity that he is missed today. He was a man of extraordinary strength, leadership and great independence. I can well understand the devotion of his people, as so eloquently expressed on the opening day by the President.
15.3 There is a void because Marshal Tito is not here. But, I am sure he would agree, as I am sure that you all do too, we have had extraordinary hospitality. The splendid musical entertainment the night before last, here at this great Sava Centar, was a tribute to the Yugoslav cultural heritage and I am sure we all en- joyed it thoroughly.
15.4 If I may take a moment, I would just like to express our pleasure at the presence here for the first time of the delegation from Zimbabwe. My government looks forward to working with this new member of the family of nations and wel- comes its participation in our General Conference.
15.5 Mr President, Unesco has been in existence for over a third of a century. it igipreparing ito rerelect its idole and esteemed, Director-General tora. second term. The Organization faces a period in which resources may not be as easily available as in the past, but the Director-General is blessed with a dedicated, if unsung, staff, and my government is convinced that they will do all in their power to make Unesco more responsive than ever to the challenges which the world faces today. I hope that Member States will do the same.
15.6 At the very core of Unesco's response to these challenges is the second Medium-Term Plan. There is nothing more important before this General Conference than the guidance it gives for drafting the plan. Very relevant to our delibera- tions is a major study on probable conditions in the world when we reach the end of this century. Recently President Carter released a very interesting study, which I would like to quote from now, regarding the future that we may face. "If present trends continue, the world in 2000 will be more crowded, more polluted, more difficult, less stable ecologically, and more vulnerable to disruption than the world we live in now. Serious stresses involving population, resources and environment are clearly visible ahead. Despite greater material output, the world's people will be poorer in many ways than they are today. For hundreds of millions of the desperately poor, the outlook for food and necessities of life will be no better. For many it will be worse. Barring revolutionary advances in technology, life for most people on earth will be more precarious in 2000 than it is now - unless the nations of the world act decisively to alter current trends."
15.7 Mr President, this clearly states the challenge facing not only the nations of the world, but the international organizations as well. In Ffacdt,sthat report on "Global 2000", copies of which are being made available to you, constitutes a useful basic document for our planning. Our plan must focus efforts on satisfac- tory answers to some vital issues so that we can say with confidence that:
(1) Unesco is making the best use of its human and financial resources to help Member States in providing learning opportunities for those billions who are massing to march into this world, as well as those who are already here; (2) Unesco is making the best use of its resources so as to improve the self-reliant capacity of countries throughout the world to apply advances of science and technology;
(3) Unesco is doing all it can to promote cultural identity and development so as to make this planet a better place to live in; (4) Unesco's processes and programmes support both endogenous development and the international intellectual and social co-operation which reflect our interdependence.
15.8 My government hopes that the plan will lay the basis for Unesco, in the areas of its competence, to fulfil its fundamental role in the world. As we see it, that role is: first, to identify problems facing the world community both on a global and regional basis; second, to clarify the basic nature as well as the varying perceptions of these problems; third, to design strategies and policies to assist countries, individually and collectively, in seeking solutions to these problems; fourth, to arouse the consciousness of the world tc the importance, necessity and ways of co-operating to solve these problems; and finally, to promote the advancement of international intellectual co-operation within Unesco's fields of competence.
15.9 In the final analysis, Unesco's role must be that of a catalyst. It is and will be most effective when it is most flexible, when it strives towards decentralization and enlarges partnership and participation. Our next Medium- Term Plan should reflect these principles.
15.10 Mr President, it is of the utmost importance that the plan's objectives should be problem-oriented and lend themselves to practical application. Unesco must concentrate its efforts where results can in fact be achieved with the limited resources at hand. Unesco cannot have a significant impact on the world's problems if it merely divides its resources more or less evenly over      the gamut of problems in its areas of competence. Member States must decide on the basis of their own relative strengths and weaknesses what their priorities are and what problems are subject to amelioration through international co- operation. Only then can Unesco determine whether there is a sufficient resource base on which to mount its programmes.
15.11 My delegation is very appreciative of part II of document 21 C/4, the Director-General's preliminary report on the plan, which deals with methodology. We believe that he has laid down for us a very useful framework in terms of both the proper approach to planning and the modalities of timing, consultation and format. The Director-General's oral introduction to the Medium-Term Plan yesterday was outstanding. His concise analysis of world problems was made in terms designed to bring unity in action rather than wrangling over the appropriate ideological framework for activities. The concerns were so well articulated that I should like to propose that we use his statement as the introduction to our preparations for the second Medium-Term Plan.
15.12 I would like to make one additional point, Mr President, as we enter into the serious work we have before us. To the degree that we debate ideology, we are impeded from doing our real work. Unfortunately, a number of draft reso- lutions have been introduced which threaten to divert us into a totally unproduc- tive ideological debate. If necessary, my government will with the deepest regret turn its attention to the negative task of keeping Unesco from becoming the spokes- man of a particular ideological viewpoint. I am afraid this would be to the de- triment of our real constituents, namely the world's millions of children without schools, adults who cannot read, those whom modern science and technology have left behind, the culturally deprived throughout the globe. We must not lose sight of these people - flesh and blood - for whose benefit Unesco's every action should be taken.
15.13 Particularly close attention and fresh thinking are needed in planning Unesco's activities in the communication field. Here, in a real sense, we are breaking new ground both for the Organization and for the international community. We can take special satisfaction in this because there is no surer sign of the vitality and relevance of Unesco than the catalytic role it plays in the con- tinuing evaluation of a new world information order. My government is proud to have been involved in the first rank in that evolutionary process within the Organization. We believe strongly in increasing the self-reliant capacity of the developing countries to tell their own story, and ensuring freedom of infor- mation and expression for all individuals and nations. We also believe strongly that neither of these objectives - development of communication and freedom of expression - can be accomplished alone. Individuals and nations need freedom to achieve the fullest measure of development. This is confirmed, we believe, by the historical record and by current events. In speaking of freedom of ex- pression, I am not only drawing inspiration from United States values, although freedom of expression is, indeed, an integral and fundamental part of our heritage - part of our endogenous development, to use the apt Unesco phrase. I am also drawing on Unesco's constitutional mandate and the will of the overwhelming majority of Member States, for whom "the unrestricted pursuit of objective truth, and ... the free exchange of ideas and knowledge", which are expressed in the Preamble to Unesco's Constitution, are fundamental commitments.
15.14 These principles (expressed in the Declaration on the role of the media) are now universally accepted. The difficult debates which engaged us in defini- tions and ideological concerns have served their purpose and have subsided. Our task now is to translate the consensus we have achieved into practical work for the benefit of all, but principally for the developing nations. That is the significance of the Intergovernmental Conference for Co-operation on Activities, Needs and Programmes for Communication Development, held in Paris in April 1980. There, for the first time, and not without some difficulty, we were able to give concrete form to an idea which can become the centrepiece of international efforts to expand communications systems and services in the developing countries. In other words, to recognize the full partnership of the developing and industrial- ized countries in the process of forging a new world information and communication order and to establish the Intergovernmental Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC). The balance achieved in designing IPDC will not please everyone on all counts, particularly with respect to funding, but the IPDC will be effective and will serve the interests of developing countries, if it is allowed to take its first steps as the April meeting intended. We support that balance, and commend the Director-General for faithfully conveying the spirit and letter of the April consensus in his proposals with respect to IPDC.
15.15 The United States intends to pursue its strong interest in communications development in the Unesco context, and for this reason wishes to be a member of the IPDC Intergovernmental Council to be elected at this General Conference. We will also continue our bilateral efforts in this field which, if not as great    as we would have liked had budgetary considerations allowed, are none the less significant. Initiatives that we announced at the twentieth session of the General Conference in 1978, for example, are in the implementation stage. The Agency for International Development has now signed three bilateral agreements on rural satellite services. The International Communication Agency only recently announced the first two agreements with regional training ‘centres to provide the services of senior United States professionals in teaching positions. The United States private sector is becoming more active in this field, and wants to be. counted in any inventory of potential sources of expertise and assistance.
15.16 If I may turn to another important development in the international com- munication context, my government congratulates the distinguished individuals making up the International Commission for the Study of Communication Problems (The MacBride Commission) on their report to the Director-General. It provides Member States with valuable insights into the nature of the problems and outlines some possible solutions. While we do not agree with everything in the report, particularly some unsubstantiated assumptions about private enterprise, multi- nationals and advertising, as well as the whole of Section B of Part V, generally we think the Commission did a commendable job in trying to synthesize some ex- tremely varied viewpoints. In this connection, my government was particularly pleased to find an unequivocal affirmation of freedom of the press and free access to news sources. The Director-General has provided a useful perspective to our discussions in his proposals with respect to the report. We commend him and offer our continued constructive co-operation as the Secretariat considers practical measures to implement those Commission recommendations which are intended for Unesco. I am sure this study will be helpful as we work co-operatively to find practical solutions to the world's communication problems.
15.17 Turning now to the field of education, I would like first to express the hope that Unesco will give priority to assuring equality of educational opportu- nity. The Organization should concentrate on creating the infrastructures that making schooling possible, such as training educational planners, teachers and administrators. Special attention should be given to helping to provide education for girls, women, migrant workers, disadvantaged ethnic and racial groups, refugees, the poor, the handicapped and others who are often deprived.
15,18 Second, we would like to see great emphasis given to promoting literacy, sound educational practice and the full development of learning capacity. In addition to promoting basic educational skills, Unesco has a role to play in selected areas of curriculum development, teaching methodology and the integration of new technological and social realities into school life. The impact on the learning process of a wide range of inexpensive, easily available electronic games, calculators, recorders and minicomputers is a case in point.
15.19 Third, Unesco should help create effective relationships between the school, other social institutions and the needs of society. Certainly the relationship between education and work is the most discussed and perhaps the most important of these relationships. But the relationship of education to health, culture, family, citizenship and the general quality of life needs attention at the inter- national level.
15.20 Fourth, Unesco must work to inculcate a sense of global interdependence. Though this is an area where progress is hard to quantify, it may be Unesco's most important role. It involves (to paraphrase again from Unesco's Constitution) "building in the minds of men the defences of peace" through educational programmes that emphasize mankind's common interest in protecting human rights, peace and the environment, and in finding solutions to such problems as overpopulation, hunger and racialism. In Committee I and the Drafting Group for 21 C/4, my dele- gation will put flesh on these general proposals.
15.21 Finally, Mr President, we believe that Unesco's extra-budgetary resources in education - twice the amount of the regular budget - provide it with a good opportunity to deliver services to the Field based upon study at Headquarters of the best formal and informal methods available.
15.22 One of the many disturbing inequalities in the world today is in the area of science and technology. The present concentration of scientific expertise in the economically developed countries is not only in itself unfortunate but un- doubtedly contributes to the sharpening of other inequalities. Social and cul- tural inequality is closely tied to scientific and technological inequality. The United States believes that the Director-General and his staff have recognized the basic problem and are moving towards attacking it. It is important that the General Conference endorse their efforts.
15.23 The recent shift towards greater emphasis on science and technology is particularly encouraging. This seems to us an appropriate response to the United    Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development, which was held last year in Vienna. We believe that the innovative action taken by the Organization in concentrating the increases in science and technology in eight major regional projects for application to endogenous development has considerable promise. These projects are a good start in implementing recommendations towards decentra- lization. They will help ensure that Unesco's science activities are directly related to practical objectives. My government considers it important that such projects be co-ordinated with the other relevant elements of the United Nations system, especially the Regional Economic Commissions. We hope to learn of the progress of such co-ordination in the course of this General Conference.
15.24 We support increased efforts to help countries overcome scientific illi- teracy, to promote research and training in the basic sciences, andito build up scientific capabilities in the developing countries. Unesco, after abl/vis-the only agency in the United Nations system to have such activities among its pri- mary responsibilities. Unesco should be commended for that fact and for the fact that these advances in broadening the impact of its programmes have not subtracted from its continued achievements in international scientific co-operation - espe- cially in the fields of oceanography, hydrology, earth sciences and ecology, and in its promotion of scientific and technological research. In all these areas, Unesco's efforts to encourage contacts between scientists and engineers world- wide are an important element in building up the scientific capabilities of developing countries. This function is an important achievement of all these programmes.
15.25 Mr President, it may be in the cultural area that Unesco's most dramatic successes have been achieved. It is with justifiable pride that we can say of the Nubian monuments — to name only the most impressive example - that without Unesco, they would have been lost to posterity. The United States gives its ful- lest support, not only to the preservation of monuments, but also to the other objectives of Unesco in the cultural realm. We concur completely with the prio- rity which has been accorded to the promotion of cultural policies and the train- ing of cultural development specialists.
15.26 The United States took satisfaction in joining a consensus in March this year on a Draft Recommendation concerning the Status of the Artist. A number of differing perceptions concerning the role of the artist in society emerged as that resolution was negotiated, but we all agreed that the dignityiof the artist and his or her status in all societies should not be diminished or encroached upon. We hope that the work of the March meeting will be translated by this General Conference into a formal recommendation.
15.27 Mr President, I would like to reiterate the praise my government has given to Unesco for its work in promoting and protecting human rights and our continuing support for those efforts. I wish to mention in particular the work of the Com- mittee on Conventions and Recommendations, which has made important progress under its new procedures. We also attach great importance to Unesco's efforts devoted to human rights teaching.
15.28 I now turn to another aspect of the problem, Mr President. The World Con- ference of the United Nations Decade for Women, which took place in July 1980 in Copenhagen, highlighted many disturbing reports of slow or negative progress for women. The United States would like to emphasize the importance to attaches to Unesco's contribution to the advancement of women. We are concerned that women's issues are not receiving sufficient attention at the planning levels. We are speaking here not only of the human rights aspect of the problem but. of -the severe consequences of overall development when women are ignored. In many countries women are the key to the preparation of the family food and to family welfare - and often to agricultural work. Yet these women are often left oùt or the nain- stream of opportunity for education and development. I quote the latest annual report of the World Bank: "Educating girls may be one of the best investments a country can make in future economic growth and welfare". In other words, edu- cating girls makes good economic sense; not educating girls spells failure for many development programmes, especially in the field of health and population. Yet we know that the gap in literacy rates between men and women is increasing. My delegation would like to see Unesco strengthen its leadership role on behalf of women with special efforts in two areas: education and the placement of women in senior positions in the Unesco Secretariat.
15.29 Mr President, since the end of World War II, the United States has been in the forefront of the search for arms limits and disarmament, and we think that carefully conceived disarmament education can serve that goal. Education about disarmament in Unesco should candidly confront a range of problems with which real disarmament efforts must deal: fears for security; the political, economic, and psychological contexts of disarmament; the need for access to adequate infor- mation; and the role of perception and misperception concerning security and the function of arms.
8 15.30 Mr President, I would like to turn my attention now to another area of major concern to my government. At a time of general economic downturn, we be- \ lieve we must give a very high priority to the management of resources. In this | critical area, Unesco has made some important achievements. First, let me say that there is much to praise in Unesco's approach to programme planning and bud- geting. While the C/5 document - the Programme and Budget for 1981-1983 - is still too long and often lacking in clarity, the Secretariat nevertheless deserves credit for having one of the most cohesive budget processes in the United Nations system. It provides targets of financial resources needed to reach each objective | in the plan, and it indicates the relative emphasis placed on each programme | objective, making it easier for Member States to relate Unesco objectives to their | own priorities.
15.31 Having said this, the United States believes that there is room for further | improvement in the budget process. We applaud New Zealand for its initiative in | proposing further study of budget techniques. A greater interest by Member States in Unesco's administration would be a healthy development.
15.32 The United States continues to favour decentralization. We are pleased by such developments as the decision to expand Regional Offices to cover all of Unesco's areas of competence and the appointment of regional co-ordinators. But more effort should be made to assure that decentralization really leads to better service for the beneficiaries of Unesco's programmes. There is reason for concern over the apparent slowness with which Headquarters functions, positions and autho- rity are being transferred to the Regional Offices. Above all, we must avoid simply creating another level of bureaucracy. In brief, there is ground for approbation here, but a note of caution is in order as well. |
15.33 We are heartened by the system of programme evaluation that Unesco has in- | corporated into its process of planning, programming and budgeting. A management | technique of this kind is invaluable because we are convinced that the process of evaluation must be an integral part of the programming process and not an after- thought. We would welcome even greater efforts towards building evaluation into projects under the second Medium-Term Plan, as well as an assessment of Unesco's progress under the first Medium-Term Plan. |
15.34 We are extremely hopeful that in the interim between this General Confer- | ence and the next, we will see a more effective functioning of the Executive Board. We are unenthusiastic about the proposed expansion of the Board. |15.35 Next, I would like to turn to the crucial element of budget levels. Through- out the world, governments are having to cut back on the services they give their own citizens. Many very desirable programmes are having to be put off because of severe economic problems. It is simply unrealistic for Unesco, under these circumstances, to deal with its fiscal affairs in a "business-as-usual" way - with the traditional jump in its demands on contributions which occurs with each new budget cycle. The United States is not alone among the major contributors in insisting on a stop to the rapid growth of the Unesco budget. This is not a new problem, but it is an increasingly crucial one if the Organization is to retain the confidence of its principal donors. Though members representing over two- thirds of the total contributions to the budget have called for cuts in the level of real growth of the budget, the results to date have not been notable, to say the least.
15.36 Mr President, I will not attempt to be exhaustive here about the ways in which costs could and must be contained. At the spring meeting of the Executive Board, Ambassador Newell listed 15 areas where savings were possible. I would merely like to mention three specific areas of concentration.
15.37 First, my government considers the 1981-1983 growth rate much too high and indeed thinks there should be no real growth. But it is especially disturbing that a new expenditure has been added to those included in the original 21 C/5 budget, which already provided for a biennial real growth rate of six and one- third per cent. The Director-General deserves the highest praise for his decision to absorb from elsewhere in the budget the costs for the Intergovernmental Pro- gramme for the Development of Communication and the International Information Sys- tem on New and Renewable Energy Sources. It is my government's hope that all additional expenditures not in the original budget, such as those for new language interpretation costs, will likewise be absorbed.
15.38 Second, this is not the time to undertake capital expenditure on new build- ings and extensive remodelling in Paris. If Unesco is serious about decentraliza- tion, the number of positions in Paris should be decreasing, not increasing. The contributions of Member States should be devoted to the improvement of lives in places far removed from the Place de Fontenoy. And member countries should make no mistake. The proposed work must be paid for, and since Unesco can hardly expect
520     to get additional money from contributors to construct buildings in Paris, these funds must ultimately come out of programmes of benefit to members.
15.39 Finally, and most importantly, we must formally insist now that the Medium- Term Plan be prepared on the assumption that new programmes should be balanced by savings elsewhere. Substantive action should be sacrificed as little as possible, but it must be recognized that economizing, while painful, is essential.
15.40 Before concluding, Mr President, I feel it necessary to address a matter that has very serious consequences for our Organization: the continuing incarce- ration of Professor Percy Stulz, Director of the Division of Cultural Heritage, in violation of his privileges and immunities. The work of international organi- zations is drastically hampered if the security and independence of the inter- national civil service are jeopardized. Infringement of the security and indepen- dence of staff members of the United Nations system by a Member State is a serious threat to international co-operation. My delegation fully supports the resolute and courageous action that the Director-General has taken to seek the release of Professor Stulz and his return to Paris and his work at Unesco. We believe it necessary to continue all appropriate efforts to seek his prompt release.
15.41 Mr President, I would like to close on the same note with which I began these remarks. The United States is proud to be associated with the many fine works which Unesco has achieved. We believe that under the continued devoted leadership of Director-General M'Bow, Unesco's best years are ahead. In any event, my government stands ready to work with the Secretariat and other Member States for a better future. Thank you.
16. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et je donne la parole à S. Exc. M. Kalevi Kivistô, ministre de l'éducation et chef de la déléga- tion de la Finlande.
17.1 Mr KIVISTO (Finland): Mr President, to take the floor in this beautiful Sava Centar fills me with emotion. This year Yugoslavia has lost the greatest man of its history, President Josip Broz Tito. He has left us, but his work continues. We have an inspiring and exacting heritage to cherish, that of the dignity and liberty of man. We can be worthy of it if we strive to do so at all levels, individual, national and international. This noble goal is identical with the ultimate goal of Unesco. The twenty-first session of the General Conference could not have a more fitting setting than the hospitable capital of Yugoslavia and this very building. We greatly appreciate the election of Mr Ivo Margan, as a distinguished representa- tive of the Federal Executive Council of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugos- lavia, to the office of President of the General Conference. May I join the previous speakers in congratulating him through you, Mr President, on his election.
17.2 This session of the General Conference provides us with an excellent oppor- tunity to reflect on the global problems of mankind, many of which need close con- sideration in the present world situation. The present decade has unfortunately started with increased tensions in international relations, and difficulties have appeared in some fields of international co-operation. This regrettable tendency culminates in an acceleration of the arms race, particularly of nuclear armaments, which creates the most serious threat to mankind.
17.3 In analysing Unesco's role in this international situation, we have to bear in mind that the most critical issues of the new decade will be the efforts aimed at the relaxation of international tensions, the strengthening of conditions for peace and the halting of the arms race. Unesco can certainly contribute, through educational, cultural and scientific exchanges as well as through the strengthen- ing of the free and balanced flow of information, to the attainment of these goals. The Constitution of Unesco is highly relevant when we look for guidelines for the eighties. Long-term activities for building mutual understanding and trust among peoples should be particularly emphasized now when there are serious indications that the attitudes of the man in the street have turned towards the use of violence. And that is why the foundations of peace must be built in the minds of men, as is said in the Constitution of the Organization.
17.4 Unesco has also paid attention to obstacles to disarmament within its com- petence. Expert meetings have tackled this problem, and research and co-operation activities have been organized to analyse these obstacles, as well as to study the process of militarization and the arms race. We welcomed with great satis- faction the International Congress on Education in Support of Disarmament last June. The recommendations of this Conference provide Unesco with a sound basis for action in the 1980s. We likewise look toward the Intergovernmental Conference on Implementation of the Recommendation concerning Education for International    Understanding, Co-operation and Peace and Education relating to Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The Government of Finland is prepared to support the pre- parations for this Conference by all feasible means.
17.5 We also consider important the strengthening of international co-operation for promoting peace research. The scope of this programme should be widened in order to include the analysis of the necessary pre-conditions for a lasting peace such as the solution of problems regarding nutrition and natural resources and population problems.
17.6 I have already expressed our concern about the present development of inter- national relations. We are convinced that it is in the interests of Unesco to contribute to all processes likely to assist in attaining the main goals of the Organization. The opening of the preparatory meeting of the second follow-up meeting to the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe in Madrid two weeks ago provides a good possibility to continue the dialogue and process of détente in Europe. While the CSCE process continues, we should also pay attention to the development of European co-operation in the framework of Unesco. This co-operation existed even before the Final Act of the CSCE was signed. In the field of education, science and culture Unesco plays a very important role in providing, together with the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, the only multilateral forum where all European Member States can participate on the basis of sovereign equality in co-operation of mutual interest.
17.7 Compared with the present programme and budget, the draft programme for the next three years includes considerably fewer activities in the European region. Our delegation hopes that during this session we can have a construc- tive discussion on the further promotion of European co-operation and adopt a resolution to this effect. What we consider particularly important is the organi- zational framework provided by Unesco. The financing of co-operation can certain- ly be partly covered by the participating Member States. Our interest in European co-operation does not, of course, mean that we should pay less attention to the global activities of Unesco.
17.8 Lasting peace cannot be achieved without increased efforts to promote just and equitable development. The contribution it has made to endogenous develop- ment and to the establishment of a new international economic order has given Unesco a new dimension. In recent years Unesco has promoted the establishment of infrastructures for education, science, culture and communication in the developing countries. But it also has a great potential to promote the principles of the new international economic order in its own fields of competence by estab- lishing and strengthening such models of international co-operation as are based on this new order.
1779" Particular attention: should beipaiditaeithe unigueiroleofiUnesco asian international forum for intellectual exchange and as an agent not only for opera- tional but also for normative activities. In so far as the activities of the Organization are directed towards the generation and promotion of ideas, objec- tives and models as well as the exchange of experience and information, the final contribution of the Organization to international progress and endogenous develop- ment may indeed be more catalysing, multiplying and manifold than what can be achieved through operational field projects alone.
17.10 The role of education and science in development has already been quite widely understood, even though that may not yet have led to sufficient action. Educational and social aspects were taken into consideration in the preparation of the strategy for the Third Development Decade, and a special conference on science and technology for development was organized a year ago. My delegation stresses the important role of Unesco in international scientific co-operation. We believe that one of Unesco's major tasks is to strengthen the interaction be- tween science and society as well as to contribute to a coherent science policy in the whole United Nations system. Finland appreciates the proposed major re- gional projects in relevant fields of science, and we feel that similar co- operation arrangements might also be useful for the European region. Research co-operation on biomaterials ought to be in the interests of most European Member States. While Unesco contributes to the implementation of the Third Development Decade's strategy and the recommendations of UNCSTD, it is likewise important that it draws the attention of the international community to the crucial impor- tance of culture and communication in overall social development. Unesco also has a real challenge to meet in these fields and an innovative function to fulfil. This should also be concretely reflected in the second Medium-Term Plan and the next programme and budget so that high priority will be given to the solution of problems of cultural development and communication.
17.11 The principles of cultural development, cultural identity, the right to culture, wide access to culture and participation in cultural life as well as the
522     duty of public authorities to develop cultural policy need to be widely discussed. The organization of the second World Conference on Cultural Policies in 1982 and its preparation will provide an excellent opportunity for setting the objectives and policies for the eighties.
17.12 One important factor of cultural development which has only recently been recognized as a legitimate part of cultural policies is the so-called cultural industries. We have not paid sufficient attention to the new circumstances created by the rapid growth of industrially produced culture. It is important to bear in mind that industrially produced culture is an international phenomenon and that a remarkable part of this industrial production is in the hands of large transnational corporations. Particular attention should be given to children who mostly suffer from cultural filth. Therefore, we consider it particularly im- portant for international cultural organizations to pay attention to the cultural industries. The Government of Finland in its own cultural policy as well as in its participation in international cultural co-operation places great emphasis upon the promotion and control of the role of the cultural industries in cultural development. In most of the developing countries and also in some industrialized countries like Finland the problem is to ensure domestic production of high- standard cultural supplies, the preservation of the cultural identity and the promotion of balanced international exchanges of high-level cultural products. The problem is not in the first instance related to the media as such but to the question of how to use them.
17.13 In the field of international communication, my government gives its sup- port to all the efforts made to develop a new international information and com- munication order aiming at such mass media structure and policies as would provide the public with accurate information about objective reality - both national and international. We find the Report of the MacBride Commission a positive contri- bution to the world-wide debate on communication problems. We consider that the discussion should be continued both at the national and international level on the problems of establishing a new international information and communication order. We also support the Director-General's proposal that Unesco should continue to study those questions on which insufficient data were available, and the con- ditions and proposals for international action based on the widest possible consensus.
17.14 Action is most urgently needed now to establish the Intergovernmental Programme for the Development of Communication proposed by the intergovernmental conference convened by the Director-General last April. We are also prepared to support the proposal that the travel costs of the representatives of the develop- ing countries for participating in the meetings of the Council for the Programme should be covered by the regular budget. Necessary reorientation and organization of the draft programme and budget should be considered to meet the wishes of the developing countries. After establishment of the programme, my government will study the ways and means of participating in it.
17.15 I have examined above some of the major problems which we consider important in the next programme and budget as well as in the preparation of the second Medium- Term Plan of the Organization. The promotion of the wider participation of Member States and their National Commissions in programme planning, particularly in the preparation of the second Medium-Term Plan, is essential for the respect of demo- cratic principles within the Organization. We therefore consider it important that a wide written consultation covering the problem areas, objectives and pos- sible thesis of the second Medium-Term Plan should take place after this session, and that sufficient time should be given to Member States to prepare their replies to the questionnaire. In order to increase the involvement of the National Com- missions in programme planning, implementation and evaluation further we have proposed that the regional conferences of National Commissions should be harmonized with the programme planning of the Organization in such a way that these regional conferences would be organized every fourth year. This proposal has been repeated by four different regional conferences of the National Commissions of the Organization.
17.16 I should like to conclude my statement by expressing all our support to the Director-General in developing the programme and the second Medium-Term Plan to provide a more problem-oriented and integrated whole to contribute to the solution of the major world problems. While such an approach is inevitable for Unesco, it is certainly not an easy path to tread. The nature of the problems involved will easily lead to conflicting interests, but we should have patience and endeavours to solve them by consensus whenever it is possible. This should not, however, lead to compromises at the expense of intellectual honesty and clarity. A serious, analytical and scientific penetration to the very roots of these prob- lems is increasingly needed. Unesco will fulfil a great task in promoting inter- national intellectual exchanges if it has the courage to discover the structures and processes which will help us to understand the true nature of global problems. Thank you, Mr President.
18.1 Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Finlande.
18.2 Je donne maintenant la parole, dans le cadre du débat de politique générale à S. Exc. M. Guillermo Angulo Gomez, ministre de l'éducation et chef de la déléga- tion de la Colombie.
(19:1) Mr ANGULO GOMEZ (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish): Mr President, Mr Director-General, Ministers and heads of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, in addressing this twenty-first session of the General Conference of Unesco, it gives me great pleasure, on behalf of the Constitutional Government of the Republic of Colombia and its head of state, Dr Julio César Turbay Ayala, to congratulate Mr Ivo Margan on his election as President and to express at the same time our best wishes for the success of the deliberations that are taking place in the splendid and historic Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
(19.2) In accordance with the ideals of Unesco, my country attaches special importance to the establishment of a new economic and social order, which we feel should be con- ceived not only in terms of economic objectives, but also in terms of political, educa- tional, cultural, scientific and technological objectives. Within this framework, three basic needs seem to us of fundamental importance: the need to reorient international efforts in the field of education, science and culture so as to liberate the potential of the developing countries in this sphere; the need to give the countries of the Third World access to educational, scientific, technological and cultural achievements, without overcharging them for it or compromising their cultural identity; and, finally, the need to institute new forms of national and international co-operation so as to extend to the vast masses of underprivileged people in many countries of the world, with all the ur- gency that the magnitude of the problems demands, the benefits of food, shelter, health, education, recreation, culture and information.
(1923) With these aims in mind, Colombia has remained firm in its commitment to the principles of defence of peace and respect for human rights; the elimination of colonial- ism, racialism and militarism; the improvement of women's status; the return of cultural property to its countries of origin; and all measures calculated to strengthen the bonds of solidarity and improve the quality of life within all countries of the international community.
(19.4) Our nation is certain that such principles can be realized to the extent that education throughout the world and the conquests of science and technology become a univer- sal heritage. The importance Colombia attaches to education is evident from the propor- tion of the national budget devoted to this sector; 25 per cent of the budget is directly employed by the State to provide educational services for the school population at all levels. This outlay, which is quite considerable in scale if one takes into account the problems and demands of other economic and social sectors of the Country, is channelled into policies and strategies designed to improve the quality of education, extend its scope and reduce the considerable disparities that still exist between the diverse groups and regions that make up Colombian society. Research, planning and the continuous evalua- tion of curricula and administrative performance are being intensified and are taking on a new aspect in the context of the local concentration scheme which is grouping to- gether different educational institutions in accordance with community requirements and with the characteristics and economic and social complexion of the region.
(19.5) In response to the educational problems of outlying areas, the national govern- ment, through the Ministry of Education, is preparing a plan for the promotion of educa- tion in rural areas and small population centres with the principal aim of reducing the high school drop-out rate, improving the academic standard of teachers and introducing new methods for single-teacher schools. In accordance with the policy initiated a few years ago of diversifying secondary education in urban centres through the Institutes of Diversified Secondary Education and the Auxiliary Educational Services Centres, the plan envisages the reinforcement of the Rural Development Concentrations and of the agricultural studies programmes through diversification of vocational courses and the linking of education to productive projects, both in the formal and non-formal sectors.
(19.6) Despite these and other important efforts that Colombia is making in such areas as distance education, teacher training, the reform of higher and teacher education, the improvement of statistics and the establishment of a system of educational grants and loans, a number of problems still remain, for which the national government is actively seeking solutions. Particularly pressing among these is the problem of illiteracy. Colombia associates itself fully with Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, Director-General of Unesco, when he says that "the eradication of illiteracy represents a moral obligation for the international community". So long as vast numbers of people do not enjoy the right to literacy, with all the immediate and subsequent educational benefits that this involves, we cannot say that social justice exists. The denial of this right has the effect of extending poverty, maintaining inequalities between men, compromising national integration and, finally, perpetuating ignorance of the world in which we live which is so full of cultural riches, scientific and technological challenges and higher forms of recreation. This is why the Colombian Government has this year, in this very month of September, undertaken a vigorous literacy campaign involving a large number of institutions and communities and with the greatest possible support from the whole country.
(19.7) The head of state, ministers and other government authorities, the communication media, non-governmental bodies and the nation as a whole have committed themselves to give priority treatment to this problem, which is of such great magnitude in Latin America and represents a challenge for all those with government responsibilities. At its meeting in Bogotá at the end of July this year, which I had the honour to chair, the Inter- American Council for Education, Science and Culture (CIECC) devoted special attention to the question of literacy, endorsing as its goal for the latter part of this century the rectification of the present anomalous situation. My country is fully aware of the enormous task that it has to face with regard to illiteracy. We believe that, by demo- cratic means and through a campaign consisting purely and simply in the extension of culture to an appreciable section of the rural and suburban population, the country will shortly be free of this scourge.
(19.8) The importance of science and technology as a development factor was fully ire- cognized at the Vienna Conference in 1979 and in the Programme of Action drawn up at this Conference. Given the emphasis in this Programme of Action on international tech- nical co-operation, we view with some concern the limited financial response of the developed countries to the target of $250 million for the Provisional Fund which it was agreed to set up at the Vienna Conference. Let me take this opportunity of expressing the hope that this by no means excessive target will be attained, so that the Vienna Programme will have adequate support.
(19.9) By virtue of its profound implications for the present and future organization of civilization and, as the Director-General has pointed out, for the quest for a new inter- national economic order, the question of communication and information has assumed dramatic and strategic importance in the last few years. Progress in the conceptual and technological sphere has been so great as to produce disorganized, and in some instances, chaotic development, with individuals and States looking on anxiously, trying to ascertain the direction in which they are moving. It is precisely in this area that the international community has observed the greatest imbalances and where measures to establish new ground rules are most urgently needed.
(19.10) Spearheading a veritable technological revolution, informatics is opening up vast new possibilities to modern societies, but it entails at the same time risks that have still to be calculated. The Director-General of Unesco himself warned us of this when he pointed out that "informatics constitutes more than just a power: it is a system of powers. The technology that it brings is not just another technology; it involves the capacity to integrate other techniques, to facilitate or block access to a wide variety of data and scientific knowledge and, consequently, the capacity to create new develop- ment models".
(19.11) From whatever viewpoint it is analysed, communication involves at the present time a nexus of political, technological, social, economic, legal and cultural problems. The almost universal rejection of the limits imposed on the "free flow of information", which ended up as a "one-way flow", has given rise to an international debate of great political significance. The quest for a consensus on these most sensitive issues will be one of the most important challenges faced by this and future conferences, which will also have to concern themselves with the impact of new technologies, the responsibilities of the information media and the protection of journalists, economic measures and the promotion of endogenous development of national capacities, and - above all - schemes for co-operation among the international community.
(19.12) In one of the most important studies carried out by the Organization in recent times attention is drawn to two fundamental parameters of world development - the exploit- ation of the potential offered by new sources of energy in the light of the world crisis in this sphere and the international transfer of information on such new sources. This Conference will be familiar with the report of the Director-General on the findings of the Preliminary Study on an International Information System Relating to New and Renewable    Energy Sources. As might have been expected, the study concludes that important informa- tion in this sphere is unevenly distributed and that access to it is subject to numerous restrictions. The setting up of such a system calls for careful study on the part of the Conference and will require the participation of the highest technical and political organs of the United Nations. Special co-ordination at the international level will doubtless be arranged by the Director-General of Unesco and the Director-General for Development and International Economic Co-operation in the United Nations Secretariat.
(19.13) The pursuit of this objective will also help to reinforce the policy of progres- sive regionalization and decentralization by creating closer links between member coun- tries and Unesco in both the planning and implementation of programmes that take account of the specific situation of each nation or regional group. In connection with this policy of progressive regionalization to which I have just referred, we have observed with great satisfaction the establishment of the office of Regional Co-ordinator for Latin America and the Caribbean. However, if the regional co-ordinators are to carry out their duties adequately, we consider that the human and financial resources allocated to these offices will have to be boosted through a redistribution of Headquarters functions and resources as already contemplated in the Director-General's report.
(19.14) I should like to conclude by expressing my grateful recognition to Unesco for the continuous support that it affords my country both through its own programmes and through those involving the financial participation of other co-operation agencies, such as the United Nations Development Programme.
(19.15) In wishing every success to this twenty-first session of the General Conference, which is taking place in the land of Marshal Tito, one of the outstanding figures of our century, I should like on behalf of my government and the people of Colombia to thank Yugoslavia for the warm and generous welcome it has extended to us and to thank you, Mr President, for according me the honour of addressing such distinguished representatives of the international community, united in their desire to uphold an Organization which radiates the message of peace around the world and which constitutes an irreplaceable forum in the search for justice and brotherhood among peoples.
20. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Colombie. La parole est ä S. Exc. the Hon. Nissanka P. Wijeyeratne, ministre de la justice et chef de la délégation de Sri Lanka.
21.1 Mr WIJEYERATNE (Sri Lanka): Mr President, I consider it a great privilege and an honour to have the op- portunity once again to address this august assembly of the General Conference of Unesco which is meeting for its twenty-first session in Belgrade, the historic and beautiful capital of Yugoslavia.
21.2 Mr President, may I take this opportunity to congratulate through you, on behalf of my country, my delegation and on myself, Mr Ivo Margan on his election as President of the twenty-first session of the General Conference. My delegation is confident that with the commitment of the President of the Conference to the cause of peace and non-alignment, development and national integrity, along the lines charted by his venerated leader, the late President Tito, he will in his high capacity fulfil the demands of this Conference to tackle the challenges that have to be faced by all nations represented here, and to adopt measures which are vital at the current stage of Unesco's activities and which will meet the just aspirations of member countries.
21.3 At this session, we have new members with us representing a large section of humanity hitherto denied the blessings of freedom or else deprived of the benefits of Unesco. We greet them with happiness and extend our fraternal greet- ings to all of them.
21.4 We were privileged to listen to the oral report of the Director-General on the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983 and read his report on the second Draft Medium-Term Plan, and we also have a number of other important documents presented by him as a basis for our discussions. We are very grateful to the Director-General for this painstaking work, rich in initiative and endowed with valuable assessments which provide inspiration for a meaningful debate and the background for a productive programme of work.
21.5 My delegation would like to place on record its high appreciation of the dedication displayed by the Director-General in the fulfilment of the responsible tasks before the Organization, and the courage with which he has faced the chal- lenges confronting it in the higher interests of the well-being of mankind.
21.6 My country was privileged and honoured to receive him twice during the course of the last two years, first of all during the Unesco Regional Conference of Ministers of Education and Those Responsible for Economic Planning in Asia and Oceania, held in Colombo in 1978, and again last month, when he inaugurated the International Campaign for the Preservation and Presentation of Cultural Monuments in Sri Lanka covering 2,000 years of recorded time and which rightly belong, not merely to us Sri Lankans, but also to the cultural heritage of mankind.
21.7 I next wish to take this opportunity to express my country's gratitude to the Government, the leaders and the people of Yugoslavia for inviting the General Conference to hold its twenty-first session in a city imbued with the history of human endeavour for a nobler and freer life, and also for the excellent arrange- ments made for the work and stay of delegations. This is not an occasion for me to recount the bonds of friendship and close co-operation which happily exist between our two countries, but they have shared the privilege and the honour of chairing the Non-Aligned Movement at two different moments, in its development, and I cannot fail to recall the contribution made by Yugoslavia to the cause of the Non-Aligned Movement. It was in this very capital that the leaders of the non-aligned countries held their first regular summit session and set out prin- ciples for the guidance of its later activities. I also take the liberty to men- tion the contribution my country made in the very early years after our indepen- dence to bring about understanding and close co-operation among independent nations of Asia and Africa, first through the historic Bandung Conference of 1955, which was in a way the setting for the birth of the Non-Aligned Movement, and secondly the continuing contribution of my country towards the achievement of international peace through the principles of non-alignment.
21.8 In a world beset with fears that are aggrandized where the hands of men, raised against each other, continue to make life nasty, poor, brutish and short, the establishment of new horizons of understanding has become a desperate impera- tive. To share man's knowledge as well as his worldly goods calls for a new en- lightenment, readily agreed to but sadly ignored in practice.
21.9 The establishment of a new international economic order is a subject that has engaged the attention of the international community for a number of years. It is, however, a matter for regret that international negotiations have not yielded positive results. The Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly which was held to discuss this subject last month also failed to make any headway.
21.10 At the nineteenth session of the General Conference, we saw the valuable contribution made by Unesco to the development of thinking on this subject in its study entitled "Moving Towards Change", and these ideas found their reflection in the first Medium-Term Plan. Unesco's current contribution to the subject, notably the elevation of the dialogue from one of "pure adjustment of economic dimensions" to one of conceptual development based on ethical considerations, and the strategies presented in the Director-General's report, document 21 A2, where an examination of the subject in all its complex and all-embracing aspects, namely, its relationship to science and technology communication, culture, social science and education, is proposed, deserve our most careful consideration.
21.11 In the education sector activities, a major problem is the maintenance of a balance between demands from Member States and the constraints imposed by grow- ing budgetary problems. The proposal in the draft programme and budget to allo- cate certain priorities in order to ensure the expansion of selected programme activities, especially those underlined in the resolutions of the previous ses- sions of the General Conference, deserves support, for in this we see possibili- ties for the continuation of the literacy programme, programmes geared to emphasize the content of education, and to increase an awareness of the need for science and technology in the field of education.
21.12 Other areas of activities emphasized in document 21 C/5 for higher resource allocations: the status of women and their participation in development; special education such as education for handicapped children and young people; lifelong education, notably adult education, and educational activities proposed in con- nection with integrated rural development projects; educational policies and planning - particularly the linking of a number of school activities with formal education; the content and relevance of education; techniques of examination and assessment; technical and vocational training within the curriculum; teacher training; non-formal education and concentration on the need for the all-round development of the child as a follow-up to the International Year of the Child, will all receive the closest attention of my country.
21.13 Our delegation also notes with particular interest the attention paid to the growing place in society of the information media. In the sector of communi- cation, we, the member countries of Unesco, must pride ourselves that we have reached a consensus up to now. Beginning with the twentieth session of the Gen- eral Conference in Paris in November 1978 and the Intergovernmental Conference on Communication in April 1980, we have all achieved a consensus on the mechanism required to achieve a more just and better balanced new international information order. We must, beginning from the twenty-first session here in Belgrade, give this mechanism reality, so that all the countries of the world acquire the capa- city to receive and transmit information of all kinds across the international telecommunication networks, at tariffs which the average developing countries can afford. In this connection, Sri Lanka takes pride in recalling that it was
529   invited at the twentieth session to move the consensus resolutions that have given birth to the communication development programme. The proposal to study this problem within the scope of the draft programme in the light of the experience of member countries, so as to ensure truth in consonance with the growth of liberta- rian principles, must be our high resolve.
21.14 We are happy to note that Unesco has included environmental education as an area of concern. Problems related to environmental pollution and the deple- tion of natural resources are a matter of great concern to every nation, especial- ly to densely populated countries such as Sri Lanka. Considering the role edu- cation can play in the preservation of the environment and in helping to conserve natural resources, we have already initiated an environment-oriented field studies centre programme. In addition to this, a programme is being designed to encourage the formation of energy-conservation clubs in our senior secondary schools.
21.15 When we consider the present inadequacy of our educational system to cope with the problems brought about by rapid changes in the needs of society, the role of innovation at all levels assumes great importance. In the encouragement and initiation of innovative educational activities, Unesco has played an important catalytic role. Here I must make special mention of the encouragement given to innovative educational activities by the Asian Programme of Educational Innovation for Development (APEID) of the Unesco Regional Office for Education in Asia in the promotion, consolidation and evaluation of educational innovation. This is an example of a programme which highlights Unesco's encouragement of endogenous development incorporating international participatory activity.
21.16 As regards the content of education, the view that education should be deeply rooted in national culture accords with our own cultural traditions. This emphasis should apply not only to general education but also to the teaching of science and technology. My country has given full cognizance to this vital point in its general education programme.
21.17 The democratization of education is a traditional value which has been fostered in my country, and the effort by Unesco to bring about universal accept- ance and adoption of it is to be encouraged. Our religious and cultural tradi- tions tell us that ignorance is the root of all evil, the corollary being that evil has to be fought with skills and perceptions that knowledge alone can give.
21.18 The emphasis placed on science and technology in educational fields has special relevance now in the context of the discussions and conclusions of the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development. The develop- mental orientation emphasized in Unesco's programme in this respect should be recognized. The interest shown by my country in Unesco's activities in respect of science and technology arises not only from the need to overcome the acute shortage of human resources required to meet accelerated development programmes, but also from our desire to foster scientific activity and to maintain a vigorous drive towards self-reliance in national scientific and technological capacity to provide equal and adequate opportunities for all. As for the strategy to be adopted for the attainment of these objectives, Unesco's programme should provide us with the necessary encouragement.
21.19 In the field of natural sciences, the draft programme and budget has bene- fited from the discussions and conclusions of the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development held in Vienna last year. The general endorsement of Unesco's programme on science and technology in the Vienna delibera- tions has encouraged Unesco to strengthen its role in this sector. The allocation of higher budgetary priority here and the expansion of proposed programme activi- ties, as well as the proposal to prepare and implement major regional projects of an operational nature, deserve our very close attention.
21.20 The strategy to be adopted for the observance of the principles outlined in document 21 C/5 should be of particular interest to all countries. In our science and technology policy, we have accepted that science and technology are fundamental to our country's development, and it is only through their systematic application that the goods and services which are required to sustain modern society could be provided. Although modern science is universal in character, its application for the benefit of our people requires us to develop it within our country using our own and other human resources in accordance with our needs.
21.21 Our country has enjoyed universal suffrage since 1931 and free education for all since 1945. The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka guarantees fundamental rights to all persons. The Constitution states that all persons are equal before the law and entitled to the equal protection of the law. The term "persons" includes men and women. The Constitution specifically provides that no citizen shall be discriminated against, inter alia, on account of sex. It’also states’ that no person shall, on account of his race, religion or    sex, be subject to any disability, restriction or condition with regard to access to any place of worship, etc. It is also provided that nothing in the above sec- tion shall prevent special provision being made by law, subordinate legislation or executive action for the advancement of women, children or disabled persons. Hence the Constitution of our country makes special provision for specific action directed towards furthering the position of women where such action is necessary.
21.22 Following the Vienna Congress on the Teaching of Human Rights, my country set up two projects for the teaching of human rights, one at secondary-school level and the other at university level. The Human Rights Centre which was specially constituted to stimulate studies on human rights will work in close liaison with schoois, teacher-training colleges and universities.
21.23 The teaching of human rights is a natural corollary to the situation which already exists in my own country, where the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights are embodied in our Constitution. We have also made these rights justifiable by an independent judiciary. In order to buttress these rights fur- ther, we will appoint an Ombudsman to ensure that maladministration will not pass scrutiny. Under the Constitution, he will be responsible for investigating and reporting to Parliament on the infringement of fundamental rights and the perpe- tration of other injustices.
21.24 We have also given serious thought to the right to development through extended popular participation, and legislation recently introduced in Sri Lanka for the establishment of District ‘Development Councils takes into account the just right of a free and united people.
21.25 Contribution to peace among men is basic to all Unesco's programmes and activities. We have to keep reminding ourselves of the vital struggle of the "mind" of man in building the defences of peace. Truly as the Buddha observed over 2,500 years ago: "Mano Pubbango Dhammo Mano Seto Manomaya", which means "the mind is the beginning, the forerunner of all things".
21.26 In this respect we should strengthen Unesco's role in the years to come to meet the serious challenges facing the world today, by fostering the intellec- tual and moral foundations required for the creation of conditions of peace and the elimination of obstructions to peace. Programmes for improving the inter- national climate for cultural and scientific co-operation among Member States, for generating a climate of public opinion conducive to the limiting of the arms race and the transition to disarmament, for respect for human rights and the elimina- tion of colonialism and racism wherever they exist and under whatever guise they may come have to be strengthened.
21.27 In this international gathering that seeks new dimensions, let all of us here renew our friendship, reaffirm man's noble values and move towards what our Islamic brethren would understand, the "Tawhid" or unification of universality, without which no human advance is meaningful.
21.28 In working towards life's renewal in a world of inequalities and conflicts and in working to restore to humanity its lost percipience, Unesco has a vital part to play. Each country represented here could contribute to this effort by sincere commitment to the ideals and programmes of Unesco. Only then can we avoid death in the rust and stagnancy that Leonardo da Vinci warned us against where "inaction saps the vigours of the mind". To escape from such fetters should be our dedicated resolve, and in so doing may Unesco play its rightful role. Thank you, Mr President.
22. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation de Sri Lanka et je donne la parole à S. Exc. le Cheik Mohammad Bin Hamad Al Thani, chef de la délégation du Qatar. :(رطق)ىناثلآخيشلانا ‏,flatةداعسلاباحصأ,ىذيفنتلاسلجملاسيئرديسلاءوكسنويللماعلاريدملاديسلاء؛سيئرلاديسلا
(23.1) Sheikh AL THANI (Qatar) (Translation from the Arabic): Mr President, Mr Director-General, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, peace be upon you all, and the mercy and blessing of God. It gives me great pleasure, on my own behalf and on behalf of the delegation of the State of Qatar, to extend my sincere congratulations to Mr Ivo Margan on his election as President of this Conference. We are confident that with his wisdom and experience, he will lead the work of the Conference to the success which we hope it will achieve.
(2:32) It also gives me great pleasure to begin my remarks by expressing my thanks to the friendly state of Yugoslavia and its judicious government for serving as hosts to this important General Conference and for their keen hopes for its success. In addition, I should like to mention my esteem for the late Marshal Josip Broz Tito, who was one of the founders of non-alignment and played a key role in laying the foundations of inter- national harmony.
(23.3) I should also like to extend my thanks to and express my esteem for Mr Amadou- Mahtar M'Bow, the Director-General of Unesco, and his colleagues, for their excellent work in preparing for this session of the Conference and organizing its documentation. In particular, I should like to single out the Chairman and the members of the Executive Board for their work in following up the implementation of the resolutions of the last session of the Conference and preparing for the present one. And, lastly, I should like to offer my sincere congratulations to those States which have joined this Organization since the twentieth session of the General Conference.
(23.4) Ladies and gentlemen, the state of Qatar regards with approval the lofty goals and noble objectives adopted by Unesco and for that reason has sought, ever since it joined the Organization, 17 years ago, to strengthen relations with it and promote co- operation with it. Recent years have been marked by steady growth in that co-operation in various fields, with the result that we have been provided with experts and specialists in the fields of technical and higher education, general education, school buildings and curriculum development.
(23.5) We regard with approval the role played by Unesco Regional Offices in our Arab nation, and in this connection I should like to reaffirm our unwavering and continued support for the Office of the Unesco Representative to the Gulf states, located in Doha, which, although only recently established, has demonstrated exceptional efficiency and competence in the implementation of Unesco projects in the region. We also fully support the reference in paragraph 7034 to the reinforcement of that Office.
(23.6) In addition, we support the agreements which have been concluded with the Arab Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization, and the desirable orientation toward continued co-operation with the League of Arab States and its institutions, and with the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the Arab Education Office for the Gulf states.
(23.7) Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that Unesco's Programme in the various sectors is characterized by objectivity and comprehensiveness and a sound ordering of priorities, and consequently we support the projects of that Programme, Unesco's participation in the celebrations of the Islamic world marking the beginning of the fifteenth century of the Hegira, the proposed science prize, and the seminar which is to be held on the theme "Islam, the State and Power". We applaud Unesco for its decision to make wider use of the Arabic language, and we support its contribution to the establishmentof a new inter- national economic order which will advance the prosperity of mankind, and the establish- ment of a new international information order which will be more in accordance with reality and will seek to lay the foundations of truth and justice.
(23.8) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: at a time when all international organizations are striving with all their might to promote human well-being, to enhance the dignity of mankind and to strengthen human rights, we cannot but denounce and condem all violations of human rights, individual and collective, and all forms of racism and colonialism and discrimination among people. We accordingly condemn the racial discrimination in South Africa and everywhere else on earth. We also condem the military invasion of the Muslim country of Afghanistan. We hope the Soviet Union will respond to the appeal of truth and Justice and allow the people of Afghanistan the right to determine their own future.
23.9 There can be no doubt that the most hideous forms of racism, colonialism, occupa- tion and tyranny are those being experienced by the land of the Prophets, the cradle of the divine missions, where world Zionism is engaging in the most abominable violations of human rights and trampling underfoot all the values, ideals and principles treasured by the international community. Our Palestinian people are denied the right to education, as obstacles and stumbling-blocks are set in their way and the Zionists work indefatigably to empty the schools of their pupils by a variety of satanic means. Similarly, teachers encounter numerous difficulties in joining the services of Arab educational institutions. Furthermore, curricula, textbooks and all sources of Arab culture are subjected to sup- pression, distortion and falsification at the hands of Israeli censorship boards, in a deliberate attempt to obliterate everything which binds the Arab people of that land to their religion, their country, their heritage, their nation, their values and their prin- ciples. Document 108 EX/12, Add. 3 confirms part of this, although the Commission does not discuss "Arab Jerusalem, because the Israeli authorities prevented them from entering the Holy City, to ensure that they did not see the most hateful assaults on values, morality and holy things that mankind has ever known in the course of its long history.
(23.10) Gentlemen, the situation in Palestine cries out to the conscience of the inter- national community, appealing to it to face this challenge, this contempt and derision to which its resolutions, values, ideals and principles are being subjected, and to take a firm stand to enforce respect for its resolutions, especially those adopted by Unesco and by the United Nations in general. We are confident that the forces of tyranny will not veil the light of truth, and that truth and justice will prevail in the end. The false state will pass away, however much it may be supported by the forces of evil and oppression.
(23.11) I wish the President every success, and I thank the distinguished delegates for being kind enough to listen to my words. Peace and the mercy and blessing of God be upon you.
24. Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Qatar et je donne la parole à M. Sebas- tiao Jose Formosinho Sanches Simoes, secrétaire d'Etat à l'enseignement supérieur et chef de la délégation du Portugal.
25.1 Mr SANCHES SIMOES (Portugal): Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, may I begin by thanking the authorities of the friendly Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for the most cordial hos- pitality in this wonderful city of Belgrade, and by addressing through you, Mr President, a special greeting to Dr Ivo Margan, a very distinguished citizen of this country.
25.2 I should also like to address a word of respect and consideration to the Director-General of Unesco and to all delegations, observers and invited personalities.
25.3 I would like also to pay here my respects to the memory of Marshal Josip Broz Tito, the great statesman who won our admiration as the staunch defender of the independence and liberty of Yugoslavia.
25.4 May I lastly be allowed to congratulate the new members of our Organization, adding a special word of welcome to the friendly Republic of Sao Tome and Principe.
25.5 Mr President, the Government of Portugal gives full support to the guide- lines of Unesco's programme, which stresses the necessity of establishing a new order in international relations, an order based on solidarity among peoples. The programme for the next three years takes full acount of the expectations and problems of today's world and opens new perspectives on long-term solutions.
25.6 In this light, we are pleased to see the growing role played by Unesco in the promotion of science and technology for development. We believe, in fact, that Unesco is the appropriate international organization for the implementation of science and technology for the benefit of mankind.
25.7 Fully aware of the essential role of basic education in the integration of man in society, whether at the national or international level, we share and support Unesco's programmes aimed at the short-term eradication of illiteracy.
25.8 For a better understanding of all nations in a more balanced and responsible world, we believe that it is a primary necessity to increase the ways, means and structures of communication in developing countries. In a global perspective, it is a complex infrastructure that Unesco proposes for the accomplishment of all the above-mentioned tasks. It is, however, one that is close to the dual world we are living in, where the general dimension of human culture and information must be balanced between scientific diversity and the very unity of human nature.
25.9 Our returning to Unesco, after the Portuguese Revolution of April 1974, makes us feel partners of the other nations, and entitles us to collaborate in the quest for solutions able to promote the highest good of the universal man. Our Revolution gave birth to a sort of small social laboratory, where a diversity of political, social and economic transformations are taking place at a rhythm which seems very fast in comparison with the earlier pace of historical evolution. Against such a background, we must face the need to build a better future, on the basis of up-to-date -alternatives of organizational and planning forms.
25.10 Mr President, the main theme I am going to discuss, bearing in mind the appeal made by the Director-General for the exchange of experience during this debate, concerns the problem of scientific, technological and cultural develop- ment, which has not followed the political, social and economic evolution of my country.
25.11 One of the signs of our times is the close interdependence between science and technology: At present, both in the field of science and in the fundamental tasks to be performed by its universities, Portugal is still remote from the countries of Europe to which it has belonged both culturally and geographically, since its birth as a nation. Our target now is to join these European countries as far as political, social and economic standards are concerned.
25.12 It is true that the Portuguese University, mainly run and supported by the State, was not in the past provided with the facilities which would have enabled it to share in the scientific and industrial achievements of our modern world. In fact, its static and non-autonomous organization, based on a uniform structure of courses, proved to be quite inadequate for ensuring the improvement of science and technology, and for meeting the socio-economic needs of our country. Indeed, the majority of the personnel for higher education had not obtained Ph.D. degrees. Since the 1960s, some members of the staff have been sent to foreign universities to carry out scientific research activities and have been awarded doctorates, most of them with very positive results. Returning to Portugal, however, they found that existing conditions did not provide them with the necessary stimulus. I would say that the Portuguese soil has, as yet, no scientific humus in which to breed research scientists.
25.13 Under such circumstances, development solutions must be found, but they should be of a more drastic nature than mere financial investment.
25.14 In the present conditions, it is urgent to build the basic structures through which a scientific tradition may be promoted in every sector, in order to achieve the goal of endogenous scientific and technological production. To our mind, the process of structural change should begin with the reform of the university institution itself, and should be programmed according to the possi- bilities and vocation of each of the higher education schools. It is a govern- ment's job to create opportunities for change, and to give support to the insti- tutions that are willing to seize them.
25.15 It is under these circumstances that we have begun to plan ambitiously for the progressive transformation of university structures, our plans being based on the according of broader scientific, pedagogic and administrative autonomy.
25.16 This autonomy is centred on the responsible and efficient administration of human and material resources, with the aim of creating a pattern of scientific activity which is adapted to the varied demands of the world we are 1iving- in. My government has recently proposed a scheme of post-graduate studies, regulating the award of the Master and Ph.D. degrees, the former being a novelty in our educational system. This requires co-ordination to ensure scientific co-operation at various levels and the pooling of the scientific efforts of every department concerned in pursuit of the same goals.
25.17 Thus, our aim is to create human infrastructures capable of coping with scientific and technological development, in the fields of education, health, agriculture and industry alike.
25.18 We are at present going through a period of transformation and the imple- mentation of an educational system based on a policy of research activities. Questions concerning the main targets to be achieved and the pedagogical orienta- tion to be adopted are thus of immediate relevance. In fact, university teaching is traditionally connected with the maintenance and transmission of both science and culture, as well as with the provision of highly trained staff. However, these basic tasks imply the opening of higher education to a wider public, from a different sociological and cultural background. Such education should conse- quently be planned in close relation to community needs and to environmental realities.
25.19 Balanced development requires effective communication between specialists in various scientific branches. Interdisciplinarity is undoubtedly a complex function, but it is nevertheless an objective to bear in mind if we wish to achieve the reformulation of our system of education which is required to meet the needs of our community.
25.20 Interdisciplinarity should not be limited to the special areas of different fields of science; it must include fundamental as well as applied elements. The methodology of research education should therefore foster the exchange of infor- mation and team-work among scientists, in order to reach a common goal. At the individual level, enthusiasm, perseverance and creativity should be encouraged as prerequisites for the discovery of truth; but what should be taught above all are the right scientific ethics, and constant awareness that man is the alpha and omega of scientific development.
25.21 The proposed new Education Act, which is a clear expression of intent of the Portuguese Government, establishes a network of polytechnical institutes with a certain regional character. These institutes are vocationally oriented towards applied research and development projects, with shorter and more practical cur- ricula awarding an undergraduate degree and preparing also for graduate studies. With the aim of better adaptation to local geographical and sociological condi- tions, it has been decided to create several of these institutions of higher education throughout the country. On the other hand, the development of funda- mental sciences is entrusted to the universities, which are more academically oriented.
25.22 Changes introduced in the internal structure of the university system are naturally giving rise to interdisciplinary courses, at the "licentiate" level. In some existing faculties of science and technology, which have been divided into science and engineering sections, technologically oriented courses based on the interaction of the scientific and engineering branches have been initiated. Applied research and development projects are also stimulated, in addition to the assigned fundamental research objectives.
25.23 In this way, we hope to improve the effectiveness of co-operation between the universities and the polytechnical institutes, and between these establishments and the productive sector.
25.24 It is, we hope, a better future that we are establishing in Portugal, as we endeavour to co-operate with the international community, particularly with Unesco, in the achievement of a better quality of human life, in both its spiri- tual and its material dimensions. Thank you, Mr President.
26.1 Le PRESIDENT.- Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Portugal, qui est le dernier orateur de cette séance.
26.2 Je souhaite attirer votre attention sur le fait que la séance plénière de demain matin sera consacrée à un seul point de l'ordre du jour, celui qui a trait à la nomination du Directeur général. Il s'agit évidemment d'un point très impor- tant pour notre Organisation! Le débat de politique générale reprendra donc à la séance de demain après-midi.
26.3 La séance est levée. The meeting rose at 7 La séance est levée ä .40 p.m.