Sixteenth plenary meeting
1.1 The PRESIDENT: Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the sixteenth plenary meeting open.
1.2 Tigive the flcor to HE. Mr Ladislav Smid, Ambassador Extraordinary and Pleni- potentiary, Secretary-General of the Czeshoslovak National Commission for Unesco, head of the Czechoslovak delegation.
(2.1) Mr SMID (Czechoslovakia) (Translation from the Russian): Mr President, on behalf of the delegation of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, allow me to congratulate you on your election to the distinguished and responsible post of President of the twenty-first session of the General Conference. I am confident that working under your guidance and in co-operation with the Director-General of Unesco, Mr M'Bow, we shall see the proceedings of this session crowned with success, making a further contribution to the strengthening of peace and the development of international co-operation.
(22.2) Mr President, the twenty-first session of the General Conference of Unesco is meet- ing in the capital of Yugoslavia, a country whose peoples, under the leadership of the legendary Josip Broz Tito, set an example of outstanding heroism in the fight against Fascism during the Second World War, which ended in victory for the forces of progress
35 years ago.
(2.3) One of the fruits of that victory was the founding of our Organization, the purpose Of which is proclaimed in Article I of its Constitution to be to contribute to peace and security by promoting collaboration among the nations through education, science and culture. In our delegation's view, the principles contained in that fundamental document are the main criterion by which the results of the Organization's work and the development of its programme should be judged. Thanks to its years of endeavours to support peace and promote social progress, Unesco has acquired great international authority. It is equipped to address itself skilfully and efficiently to many of the pressing problems of our times. Of course, not all of them are easy to solve. However, we can be assured that the path that we chose was the right one. For it is world peace that modern man prizes above all else, since it enables him to exercise his most fundamental right - the right to life. If that basic human right is not guaranteed, then all other issues lose their purpose.
(2.4) In recent years, marked progress has been achieved in the relaxation of international tensions. One event of truly historic significance was the Conference on Security and Co- operation in Europe, since the end of which five years have now gone by. The Conference was the culmination of all the progress that had been made towards relaxing tensions in our continent. It established a sound basis for further work towards that end. However, one must note with regret that co-operation in education, science and culture in Europe has not
811    yet reached the level envisaged in the Final Act of the Conference on Security and Co- operation in Europe. It is constantly being made obvious that not every state that signed the Final Act is endeavouring to implement it to the full.
(2.5) Efforts to exacerbate the international situation and establish hotbeds of military tension have become particularly marked of late. As the President of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, Gustav Husak, said during a recent visit to Czechoslovakia by President Kenneth David Kaunda of the Republic of Zambia: "We are convinced that it is in the interests of all the world's peoples to forestall this dangerous trend and, by the combined efforts of all peace-loving and realistically minded forces, to ensure that the relaxation of tension and the development of peaceful co-operation remain the chief concern in international relations".
(2.6) Mr President, our Organization must do all it can to preserve the relaxation of international tensions recently achieved. Each session of its General Conference held over the last ten years has adopted important decisions concerning peace, peaceful co- existence and mutual understanding among peoples. We are convinced that this present session too will adopt an authoritative decision supporting the preservation and development of détente, which is crucial to the success of Unesco's activities. We welcome the proposal submitted by the delegation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics directed to that end, of which we are co-sponsors, and also the draft resolution concerning the strengthening of Unesco's role in opposing the inhuman ideology of militarism, hegemonism, racism and apartheid, since it is these monstrous perversions that are placing in jeopardy the process of détente that is so essential to mankind and from which it can reap such great benefits.
(2.7) The most urgent task now confronting mankind is to halt the arms race and effect a transition to disarmament. The thought of the enormous sums now spent on arms conjures up a host of ideas as to how those resources might be used to benefit mankind. How many prob- lems now confronting the world community - poverty, hunger, disease and illiteracy - could be solved as a result of disarmament! With the resources deriving from disarmament, a new international economic order could very soon be established, based on the principles of equality, independence, mutual benefit and non-interference in the internal affairs of others.
(248) Since the end of the Second World War, the socialist countries have submitted a great number of proposals on disarmament which relate both to general and complete disarmament and to the adoption of partial measures in that field. It is no fault of theirs that the desired results have still not been achieved. This year, they have again tabled a number of major proposals designed to bring a halt to the arms race and prevent the outbreak of another world war. I should also like to remind you of the peace initiative put forward at the session of the Consultative Political Commission of the Warsaw Treaty Organization held in Warsaw this May.
(2.9) One of the overall tasks of our Organization is to contribute to the formation of a climate of public opinion conducive to the halting of the arms race and the transition to disarmament. We consider that the World Congress on Disarmament Education held in Paris in June was an especially important step in that direction. Czechoslovakia took an active part both in its preparation and in its proceedings. Last year a meeting of experts was held in the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, and its inaugural session was attended by our Organization's distinguished Director-General, Mr M'Bow. That meeting did the preparatory work for the World Congress, and in our view, its positive results paved the way for the success of the Congress itself.
(2.10) Through its activities in disarmament education, Unesco makes a significant contri- bution to the practical application of a large number of United Nations resolutions, of which I would like to recall just one - the Declaration on International Co-operation for Disarmament, which was adopted on my country's proposal at the XXXIVth session of the United Nations General Assembly. Part two of that Declaration also contains paragraphs concerning the promotion of a better understanding by world opinion of the ideas of disarmament. The final document of the World Congress on Disarmament Education points to the importance of giving specific content to the ideas contained in the Declaration of which I have spoken, and of promoting its implementation. We hope that the General Conference will unanimously approve the findings of the Congress, and that the Organization will implement them through its action.
(2.11) Unesco's tasks in this field are more important today than ever before. The dele- gation of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic will endeavour to secure the adoption by the General Conference of an even larger-scale programme in this regard, as is in particular proposed in the draft resolution on the role of Unesco in generating a climate of public opinion conducive to the halting of the arms race and the transition to disarmament, which was submitted by the delegation of the Soviet Union and of which the delegation of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic is a co-sponsor.
(2242) In this connection, we also welcome the decision which the Executive Board of Unesco adopted at its 107th session, concerning the role of Unesco in the implementation of the Declaration on the Preparation of Societies for Life in Peace, adopted on the initiative of the Polish People's Republic at the XXXIIIrd session of the United Nations General Assembly, and we support the proposal submitted by the Polish delegation for consideration by the General Conference.
(2.13) Mr President, I would also like to pay due tribute to the work accomplished by the Director-General and his staff in drafting the new triennial programme. In our view, they have succeeded in compiling a more compact, balanced and clearly presented document than was the last. Our delegation finds the document submitted acceptable, and will support it and seek out new ways of furthering its successful implementation.
(2.14) However, thought must also be given now to the longer-term prospects for Unesco, to the role which the Organization will play, in international affairs in the eighties, to its
812    ability to promote the preservation of peace, the pursuit of the goals of the Disarmament Decade, and the resolution of such urgent problems of our times as the protection of the environment, the rational use of natural and energy resources, and a host of other matters relating to international co-operation in culture and science. We therefore welcome as most opportune and necessary the Soviet draft resolution, of which Czechoslovakia is a co-sponsor, entitled "Unesco's contribution towards solving the global problems of mankind", which raises these issues and suggests ways and forms of solving them within the competence of our Organization.
(2.15) Mr President, we consider that the positive features of the proposed programme include the social usefulness and importance of the individual projects, and also the fact that questions concerning their implementation are viewed in the long term and with an eye to their wider implications. In the chapter relating to education, we welcome the inten- tion to draw up long-term educational and training forecasts. The role of education and training is now changing radically: they are increasingly seen as one of the major resources of human society.
(2.065) The creative potential of modern man, his abilities, his talents and his interests, should be seen as one of our greatest assets. It is our view that often the contemporary world community still squanders those riches. We are persuaded of this not only by the hundreds of millions of illiterates in the world, but also by the educational systems of a number of countries, which are based on divisions into classes and socio-occupational cate- gories. In this connection, especial urgency attaches to questions of the modernization and democratization of school education systems. Together with the task of securing com- pulsory education for the younger generation, the problem of the extensive democratization of the secondary and higher education systems must be uppermost in our minds.
(2.17) Recognizing the importance of training and education for the future development of society as a whole, we have improved the educational system in Czechoslovakia. Compulsory ten-year school education has been introduced. The teaching process has been modernized in respect of both content and methods. Emphasis is placed on combining it with practical work. Also, a whole complex of forms and methods associated with lifelong education will be introduced. As it brings this new system into operation, Czechoslovakia would like to share its experience with other countries and to learn of their experience.
(2.18) The bodies responsible for decisions concerning school education in my country fully realize that the success of the reform depends to a decisive degree on the teacher, on his abilities and knowledge. The European Information Centre of the Charles University for the Further Education of Teachers in Prague contributes to the international exchange of experience in this field. It co-operates actively both with institutions in other countries and also with Unesco.
(2.19) Our delegation fully supports Unesco's programme in the natural sciences. Among the positive aspects of Unesco's action here, we number such major international projects as "Man and the Biosphere”, the "International Hydrological Programme", the "General Information Programme" or the "International Geological Correlation Programme" which make an important contribution to work in these fields. Czechoslovak scientific institutions have an established tradition of co-operating in the implementation of Unesco's science programme. The results of that co-operation serve both our own and international interests, and we are prepared to take the most active part in the implementation of the new programme.
(25420) However, Unesco's activity in the field of science should be directed more towards resolving existing world problems. Closer co-operation must be secured with the social sciences and greater attention should be accorded to them. Modern society can no longer rest content with the mere description of the situation as it exists or with "post facto" observation, as has typically been the role of the social sciences in the past. Far more is now asked of the social sciences. No.one now doubts that the natural.sciences have become a directly productive force. But the social sciences have yet to be accepted as an instrument for the purposeful management of far-reaching social processes and changes. The proposed programme for the social sciences should attempt still further to enhance their social role.
(2.21) We consider culture to be a very important field of the Organization's action. We welcome the attention which is accorded in our Organization's activities to the preserva- tion of the cultural heritage of mankind. In our view, this is fully justified, since an awareness of historical integrity is indispensable for the preservation of cultural identity, for a sense of direction and purpose among the social phenomena of our times, and also for developing a positive attitude towards the future. Czechoslovak institutions co-operate fruitfully with Unesco in this field, and they intend to develop that co-operation further. We also welcome the programme to encourage modern artistic creativity. In that field too, Czechoslovak institutions have come to co-operate extensively with Unesco.
(2.22) We proceed from the standpoint that Unesco could serve as a model for the develop- ment of mutually advantageous co-operation in culture in accordance with the provisions of the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe. We would also welcome the development of large-scale programmes Or vector programmes in the field of culture. Unesco might: promote with still greater vigour the dissemination of outstanding cultural works which summon mankind to throw its energies into the struggle against war, colonialism, racism and all other material and spiritual scourges of mankind, or of works which summon us to mutual international understanding, the preservation of peace, to social progress and the improvement of the life of man.
(2.23) We feel that greater attention should be paid to the cinema, which is among the most effective ways of exerting influence on modern society. It may be worth giving thought to the idea of proclaiming a year of the cinema in the near future.
(2.24) The Czechoslovak delegation also supports the programme for the exchange of informa- tion relating to education, science and culture. The information-exchange system, for the establishment of which Unesco was largely responsible, plays a valuable part in improving the efficiency of research undertaken in this field.
(2.25) The adoption at the twentieth session of the General Conference of the "Declaration on fundamental principles concerning the contribution of the mass media to strengthening peace and international understanding, to the promotion of human rights and to countering racialism, apartheid and incitment to war" marked the beginning of a new stage in Unesco's action concerning information. The mass media now exert a considerable influence on the human mind. This entitles us to require them to abstain from using that influence to kindle quarrels among states or disseminate racial prejudice, and to require that the influence of the press, radio and television should serve the idea of peaceful coexistence among peoples and the consolidation of universal peace.
(2.26) We may note with satisfaction that the first positive results have been achieved in the unquestionably complex field of the mass media. But none the less, we have taken only the first steps on the long road which leads to the establishment of a new international communication order. The implementation of the Declaration on the Mass Media is the indispensable prerequisite for Unesco to contribute towards progress in that field.
(2.27) Mr President, over its thirty-four years, Unesco has become a universal institution. Through its everyday activities it serves the interests of all states. Every day it is brought home to us that the peoples of the world want to live in peace, in an atmosphere imbued with the spirit of democracy and of social justice. The noble aim of enabling all people on earth to live in peace is shared by more and more people, and it would be promoted by a constant growth in education, and by raising the cultural and moral standards of mankind as a whole. The relaxation of international tensions, and the mutually advanta- geous international co-operation which goes hand in hand with it, must therefore become an irreversible process in the development of the world today. Permit me to voice the hope that the results of the twenty-first session of Unesco's General Conference will assist in the achievement of these noble ends, and that the hopes vested in this international forum by the Member States will be fulfilled. I would assure you that the Czechoslovak delegation will endeavour to do everything within its power to ensure the complete success of our work. Thank you, Mr President. ЗУ The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Czechoslovak delegation and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Daniel Abibi, Minister Plenipotentiary of the People's. Republic of the Congo, head of the Congolese delegation.
4.1 M. ABIBI (Congo) .- Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs, au moment où je prends la parole devant cette auguste assemblée, je voudrais tout d'abord évoquer avec émotion la mémoire du regretté président Josip Broz Tito, dont le nom restera à jamais lié non seulement à la Yougoslavie moderne, mais éga- lement à l'histoire du mouvement des pays non alignés. Mon pays, la République populaire du Congo, qui a longtemps bénéficié de son amitié et de son soutien, reste profondément convaincu que l'exemple que constituent la vie et l'oeuvre de ce grand homme continuera d'inspirer tous ceux qui, à travers le monde, oeuvrent pour la paix, la justice, la concorde et pour une coopération internationale véri- tablement au service de tous les Etats.
4.2 Monsieur le Président, les problèmes inscrits à l'ordre du jour de la vingt et uniéme session de la Conférence générale de notre Organisation sont importants, très importants pour les peuples de nos pays, qui luttent sous des formes di- verses, pour assurer leur bien-être.
4.3 Avant de vous faire part de la modeste contribution de mon pays au débat de politique générale de cette session de la Conférence générale, je voudrais m'ac- quitter d'un très agréable devoir, celui de présenter aux illustres délégués assem- blés dans cette salle, le salut fraternel de la délégation de la République popu- laire du Congo. Je voudrais également, Monsieur le Président, vous exprimer, au nom de ma délégation et en mon nom personnel, nos félicitations les plus vives pour votre brillante élection et vous souhaiter plein succès dans votre lourde et exaltante tâche.
4,4 Ma délégation tient à rendre ici un vibrant hommage à M. Amdou-Mahtar M'Bow pour la clairvoyance, le dynamisme et la compétence avec lesquelles il dirige de- puis quelques années notre Organisation. Sous son impulsion, l'Unesco a poursuivi avec une vigueur toute particulière un combat salutaire pour nos peuples sur des questions fondamentales comme le nouvel ordre économique mondial, le nouvel ordre mondial de l'information et de la communication, l'élimination du colonialisme, du racisme et de l'apartheid. C'est pourquoi ma délégation tient à exprimer sa totale satisfaction à la suite du renouvellement de son mandat, qui lui permettra de pour- suivre l'oeuvre si heureusement entamée.
4.5 Monsieur le Président, la situation internationale actuelle constitue pour mon pays un sujet de grave préoccupation. Elle se caractérise notamment par la résistance organisée au changement, un changement qui veut instaurer des rapports       plus équitables, plus justes entre Etats, quelle que soit leur importance démogra- phique ou économique. Cette situation se caractérise également par l'aggravation des disparités entre la majorité des Etats membres de notre Organisation et une minorité d'entre eux. La consolidation de la paix, l'élimination de l'analphabé- tisme, l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique mondial, le développement de la science et de la culture pour l'épanouissement complet de l'homme sont des objec- tifs louables qui ne peuvent être poursuivis avec succès que si cette action est sous-tendue par la volonté politique des Etats membres de notre Organisation de la voir aboutir.
4.6 Si ma délégation acclame aujourd'hui l'admission au sein de l'Unesco du Zim- babwe libéré, en même temps qu'elle salue celle des autres nouveaux membres, elle n'oublie pas que de nombreux foyers de tensions demeurent dans le monde, notamment en Afrique. En Namibie et en Afrique du Sud par exemple, des forces racistes per- fectionnent chaque jour un système qui constitue en lui-même un défi à notre Orga- nisation, dans la mesure où il repose sur le mépris de la personne humaine. Ailleurs se développent des tentatives de déstabilisation des régimes résolument engagés dans le combat pour assurer le développement de leur pays et le bien-être de leur peuple. Au Moyen-Orient, la décision unilatérale prise par le gouvernement d'Israël au sujet de Jérusalem constitue une nouvelle manifestation de la volonté de ce gouvernement de perpétuer une situation qui contraint tout un peuple à l'exil, ce qui est contraire aux idéaux qui inspirent l'action de notre Organisation.
4.7 A cette situation politique peu propice à la consolidation de la paix s'ajoute une situation économique mondiale fort préoccupante, surtout dans nos pays. La crise économique s'accentue dans de vastes régions du monde et se réper- cute dans les pays comme les nôtres avec des effets amplifiés. Il apparaît de plus en plus évident que dans la plupart des pays du Tiers Monde l'indépendance poli- tique est loin d'être garantie par une indépendance économique réelle.
4.8 Les conséquences sociales de cette situation sont évidentes : le chômage s'aggrave ; la maladie, l'analphabétisme, la faim, persistent et, dans certains cas, se développent. Ainsi la dépendance sous toutes ses formes, avec ses consé- quences, marque une tendance inexorable à l'aggravation dans la plupart de nos pays.
4.9 Pour donner une plus grande efficacité à son action, notre Organisation se doit de prendre en considération cette situation qui lui assigne des tâches et des responsabilités particulières et notamment lui impose de poursuivre et d'appro- fondir son action pour aider à la résolution des grands problèmes mondiaux dans ses domaines de compétence.
4.10 Monsieur le Président, la politique nationale et internationale de mon pays, la République populaire du Congo, sous la direction du Parti congolais du travail, ayant à sa tête le Camarade Denis Sassou-Nguesso, accorde une grande importance aux idéaux de justice, d'équité et d'égalité devant l'éducation et aux efforts visant à instaurer un nouvel ordre économique mondial et à développer la science et la culture.
4.11 Pour vous donner une idée des efforts de mon pays dans ces domaines, il me suffit de vous rappeler qu'il maintient avec fierté et consolide malgré des diffi- cultés compréhensibles un taux de scolarisation qui dépasse largement les 95 %, et que les dépenses consacrées à l'éducation représentaient en 1979 28 % du montant total des dépenses de l'Etat. La République populaire du Congo est consciente du fait que la lutte contre l'analphabétisme doit revêtir, comme le préconise du reste l'Unesco, deux dimensions : la scolarisation des enfants, réalisée grâce à un enseignement de masse, obligatoire de 6 à 16 ans, et l'alphabétisation des adultes. Nous avons pu accumuler dans ce domaine une assez riche expérience que l'Unesco connaît bien, dans la mesure où elle nous a constamment soutenu dans cette action.
4.12 Si nous nous réjouissons de ces résultats, nous ne perdons pas de vue que beaucoup d'efforts restent à faire. C'est ainsi que depuis quelques années, un accent particulier est mis sur l'amélioration même du système éducatif, pour le porter au niveau des exigences du développement du pays et l'adapter à la réalité politique, économique et sociale nationale. La ligne directrice de ces efforts est la mise en place progressive d'une école nouvelle, que nous appelons "Ecole du peuple". Les objectifs et les fondements politiques de cette réforme ont fait l'ob- jet de nos interventions antérieures. Nous sommes heureux de pouvoir dire devant la Conférence générale que l'Unesco nous apporte une aide appréciable dans la mise en oeuvre de cette importante réforme. D'ailleurs, lors de la dernière visite du Directeur général dans mon pays, un certain nombre de projets ont été retenus et seront réalisés grâce à l'appui actif de l'Unesco.
4.13 La démocratisation du système scolaire de mon pays, réalisée pour l'essen- tiel au niveau de l'accès à l'école, se poursuit dans d'autres domaines. C'est ainsi que des structures appropriées sont mises en place pour permettre aux diffé- rents groupes intéressés de participer pleinement à la vie et au fonctionnement de l'école, du primaire au supérieur. Tout récemment, notre parlement adoptait, après de longues et constructives concertations intervenues dans les instances appro- priées, la nouvelle loi scolaire qui consacre la réforme.
4.14 Dans le cadre de la transformation de l'école existante en une école plus adaptée aux réalités congolaises, mon pays attache une certaine importance à l'attitude des élèves face au travail. C'est d'ailleurs à Brazzaville, que s'est tenue une conférence internationale sur le travail productif à l'école, organisée sous l'égide du Bureau africain des sciences de l'éducation, dont nous saluons en passant l'admission, à la vingt et uniëme session de la Conférence générale, comme observateur. Cette conférence a entrepris une réflexion très intéressante et très approfondie sur la place du travail productif à l'école. Ces initiatives et cette réforme de notre système éducatif s'inscrivent dans une vision globale de notre politique de développement et constituent une tentative originale et nationale pour répondre aux questions suivantes : Quel type d'éducation, pour quel type d'homme et pour quelle société ?
4.15 Dans le domaine de la recherche scientifique, mon pays, conscient de l'impor- tance de ce secteur d'activité pour le développement et pour la connaissance, vient de mettre en place des structures plus fonctionnelles, susceptibles de donner une impulsion nouvelle à notre action sur ce plan. La même volonté se re- trouve dans le domaine de la culture et des sports, de l'information et de la communication.
4.16 Le développement des langues nationales est considéré par mon pays comme une activité prioritaire. Il est superflu de revenir ici sur les avantages pratiques et multiformes d'une telle action, tant sur le plan éducatif et culturel que sur celui de l'information et de la communication.
4.17 La République populaire du Congo reste très attachée au principe de l'affir- mation de l'identité culturelle de chaque peuple, notamment pour les peuples qui ont souffert des perturbations dues à la colonisation. Elle estime que sans affir- mation de cette identité de la part de chaque partenaire éventuel, la coopération culturelle se traduit, malgré toutes les professions de foi, par l'abdication de l'une des cultures devant l'autre, ce qui n'est dans l'intérêt ni de nos peuples, ni de la communauté internationale. Dans un monde où les grands moyens de communi- cation véhiculent avec une efficacité remarquable des modèles culturels standar- disés et par conséquent appauvrissants, il importe de donner à nos cultures un développement suffisant pour leur permettre non seulement de résister à cette nou- velle forme d'agression culturelle mais aussi d'apporter leur message à l'huma- nité. Nous pensons que l'Unesco peut jouer un grand rôle à cet égard et nous nous réjouissons que le Projet de programme que nous a présenté le Directeur général place cette question au centre des préoccupations de notre Organisation.
4.18 La République populaire du Congo soutient les efforts extrêmement louables que déploie l'Organisation en faveur de l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre écono- mique au plan mondial, c'est-à-dire, comme le soulignent nos documents, un nouvel ordre humain, fondé sur la liberté, la justice et l'équité, la suppression des inégalités entre les nations et entre les peuples, la compréhension mutuelle, la coopération en vue de mener à bien les grandes tâches communes de l'humanité, la participation de tous au bien-être, à l'éducation, à la connaissance et à la culture. :
4.19 La réalisation d'un tel projet implique que soient poursuivis et amplifiés les efforts consentis pour généraliser l'éducation, éliminer l'analphabétisme, développer l'enseignement scientifique et technologique général, l'enseignement technique et professionnel, assurer une participation plus effective de la femme au développement. Elle suppose aussi une action plus soutenue en faveur de l'affir- mation de l'identité culturelle de chaque peuple, de la sauvegarde de la culture nationale et de sa mobilisation pour le développement du pays, et enfin une action dans les domaines de compétence de l'Unesco, pour aider à la résolution des grands problèmes mondiaux, pour le respect des droits de l'homme, la consolidation de la paix, l'élimination du colonialisme, du racisme, de l'apartheid, l'élimination de la course aux armements.
4.20 La République populaire du Congo est heureuse de constater que le Projet de programme que le Directeur général nous a présenté prend en considération tous ces points et bien d'autres. C'est pourquoi, elle lui apporte son soutien actif et exprime le voeu que les Etats membres, appréciant l'importance de ce programme, comprendront la nécessité de mettre à la disposition de l'Organisation les moyens financiers nécessaires à son exécution.
4.21 Monsieur le Président, les peuples africains en général et congolais en par- ticulier, fondent beaucoup d'espoir dans 1'action de notre Organisation. Depuis l'introduction du colonialisme dans notre continent, l' Afrique a toujours été absente aux grands rendez-vous de l'histoire. Puisse l'Unesco l'aider dans ses efforts pour être présente à ceux qui s'annoncent ! C'est en tout cas le souhait que je forme en guise de conclusion à cette intervention. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
5% The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Congolese delegation and I now give the floor to H.E. Mr Byong Ki Min, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Korea to France, permanent delegate to Unesco and alternate head of the dele- gation of the Republic of Korea.
6.1 Mr BYONG KI MIN (Republic of Korea): Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Korea, I should like to express to you, Mr President, my warm and sincere congratulations on your election as President of the twenty-first session of the General Conference. Your rich experi- ence and knowledge of Unesco will certainly guide us well during these coming weeks.
6.2 We should also like to congratulate the Director-General on his unanimous re-election. Allow me to say, Mr President, how pleased we are that Unesco will continue to benefit from Mr M'Bow's able leadership and dedication to the ideals of Unesco.
6.3 With your permission, Mr President, I also take this opportunity to express my appreciation to the Government of Yugoslavia for its excellent work in organiz- ing this session of the General Conference.
6.4 Two years ago, at the twentieth session of the General Conference, my dele- gation expressed the conviction that, of all the Specialized Agencies of the United Nations family, Unesco is the most appropriate arena for the promotion and practice of international understanding, harmony and co-operation. Unesco has indeed done much over the years to promote understanding among the peoples of the world. In recent years, however, a series of events which have occurred on the international political scene has made us more keenly aware of the extreme difficulty of reaching proper mutual understanding between peoples with different cultural traditions. We are once again faced with the perennial problems of what it is thatYblocks true understanding among peoples and how we may achieve such understanding.
6.5 We think and make judgements with the help of concepts familiar to us, and these concepts form an essential part of ‘our cultural heritage. All too often we have recognized that the efforts of some nations to measure events in other nations were based on the yardstick provided by their own system of concepts. And all too often we have noticed that the political, economic and cultural situations of a given country are judged by theories developed outside its own socio-cultural con- texts. This may be both inevitable and only human given the extreme difficulty of freeing oneself from one's own preconceived opinions. We must, however, recognize the fact that it is only through efforts to overcome the limits of our system of concepts that we can achieve true understanding of other peoples. We must make intellectual efforts to imagine ourselves placed in the concrete realityiof "avdit- ferent society and feel responsibility for that reality. Judgements which are not based on true understanding are mere reflections of our own prejudices.
6.6 Mr President, it is in this spirit that we welcome and support the emphasis given in Unesco's programmes to the fostering of cultural diversity and to respect for the cultural identity of different societies. It is clear in our view that it is cultural tradition that gives people an authentic sense of identity and dignity. It is an undeniable right of every people to develop its own culture in accordance with its particular traditions and within the context of the social and political institutions it has developed. This cultural right of every people must be res- pected, just as every nation is bound to respect the territorial integrity of other nations. Unesco has been a valued ally in this uneven struggle of many peoples and societies to preserve and protect their cultural traditions. As a nation with a history of repeated experience in coping with these problems, we in the Republic of of Korea are grateful to Unesco for its efforts towards preserving and protecting cultural traditions and strengthening the spirit of respect for diversity among cultures.
6.7 Certainly, it would not be in line with the spirit of Unesco if one were to allow one's horizons to remain confined to the sentimental notion of preserving cultural forms for one's own sake. Mankind is today in the throes of development, seeking a form of existence consonant with the vision of man's dignity. Tradi- tional cultures are indeed expressions of man's attempt to free himself from the servitudes and constraints forced on him by nature, but in themselves they no    longer serve as viable answers to the challenges of the modern world. No nation that has failed to make use of the fruits of modern scientific and technological development can hope to secure for its people a place of dignity and respect in the community of nations.
6.8 Mr President, the social sciences represent a unique field of inquiry bridging the widely divergent programme areas of Unesco - education, culture and science. In this context, the social sciences are central to Unesco's goals and purposes. And yet, in comparison with the natural sciences, the social sciences are a rela- tively new and uncertain field of inquiry. My delegation finds it gratifying that the main thrust of the proposed activities for the coming triennium is directed towards the promotion of critical reflection on the fundamental concepts and the methodology of the social sciences. Only on the basis of the results of such critical reflection can valid comparisons be made between societies and cultures on such critical issues as development, human rights and peace, on the relation between science and society and on other issues relevant to the social sciences.
6.9 My delegation also notes with satisfaction that philosophy is at last coming of age in Unesco's programmes. Not only should philosophy play a critical role in shedding more light on the fundamental concepts and methodology of the social sciences; it should also perform the critical task of clarifying certain notions which form the conceptual basis of the cultural and political developments of modern times. : Mr President, we judge the worth of concepts and methodologies primarily in relation to the degree to which they enable us to understand concrete problems. Conceptual and methodological reflections, then, should properly be carried out within the framework of the concrete problems that today confront man, and especially research workers, in the various branches of the social sciences. These are demands for relevancy and interdisciplinarity in the social sciences, and my delegation is pleased to see that this dual demand is admirably met in the proposed programme.
6.11 Mr President, in the field of the natural sciences, Unesco lays emphasis on development in the Third World through the proper application of science and techno- logy. This is a very relevant concentration on the needs of mankind.
6.12 We support whole-heartedly those aspects of the Organization's programme which are specifically geared to improving and increasing the quality and quantity of scientific manpower required in the developing nations. It is clear that an ade- quate indigenous scientific and technological capability is an overriding pre- requisite for the overall modernization of a nation. It is very much through such self-generated scientific progress that the various other sectors of developing societies can move forward as a whole.
6.13: The:problems-of-the environment, inflation and economic stagnation are closely interrelated with one of mankind's most urgent problems today, namely the problem of energy. Each nation will have its own plans and efforts in securing alternative forms of energy. But, in view of the magnitude of the energy problems faced by the world today, and in order to help remove the serious obstacles which beset the deve- loping nations in their development plans, my delegation would urge Unesco to consider the inclusion, in the next Medium-Term Plan, of a more ambitious programme for the development of alternative sources of energy, taking into account at the same time the protection of the environment of each Member State.
6.14 Mr President, my delegation is pleased with Unesco's continued emphasis on literacy,-the-right-to education, the democratization of education and the promotion of education for rural development. We feel that it is in these areas that the rights to a life of equality based on adequate and modern education are most force- fully asserted.
6.15 My government, under the new leadership of President Chun Doo Hwan, has launched a series of major reforms in the educational sector. The major thrusts of these reforms are the further expansion of higher educational opportunities for the youth of my country, and greater emphasis on human and cultural values in educational programmes. Fully consonant with the ideals of Unesco, these reforms will be implemented with vigour and consistency in the future.
6.16 We are also pleased with the growth in the proposed budget for technical and vocational education. It has become increasingly obvious that indigenous develop- ment must be fostered by such practical means as investments in technical and vocational training. Indeed, this is one of the strongest points of emphasis in my country's efforts to provide our youth with viable alternatives in their educa- tion, which at the same time serve our national development goals.
6.17 Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to refer to the out- standing work being done by the Regional Office for Education in Asia and Oceania and by the Asian programme for educational innovation and development. This programme has been particularly useful for advancing our national educational policy. We have the highest regard for the work achieved so far, and suggest that the strategies and mechanisms involved might be adopted profitably both in other programme areas and in other regions.
6.18 Mr President, before I close, allow me to tell you briefly what we have done in Korea to forward the ideals of Unesco since our last General Conference session in Paris. During the past two years, our National Commission has sent 153 persons to 89 international meetings and activities abroad. During the same period, the National Commission has conducted 31 programmes, seminars, workshops, meetings and conferences, to which 168 individuals from other countries were invited" direct pursuit of Unesco's goals, we have published and distributed six regular periodi- cals, ranging from a bi-weekly newspaper in the Korean language to a scholarly English language social science journal. Prominent among the domestic activities of our National Commission have been youth-training programmes, which have been attended by more than 3,800 young Koreans during the period in question.
6.19 Mr President, we have today a deeper understanding of the predicaments facing mankind. We have today an acute sense of the need to make common efforts in finding solutions to these problems. More important, we have knowledge anditools which, if used wisely, can certainly help us to finc solutions to these predicaments. Unesco, more than any other international and national organization, possesses such know- ledge and such tools. This is why we must deliberate with thoroughness and wisdom. This is why we must make plans with insight and care. Thank you very much, Mr President. TrPRESIDENT: T thank the alternate head of the delegation of the Republic of Korea and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Ariel Coca Aguirre, Minister of Education and Culture of Bolivia.
(8.1) Mr COCA AGUIRRE (Bolivia) (Translation from the Spanish): Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, on behalf of the Government and people of Bolivia, I should like to congratulate Mr Ivo Margan on his election to preside over this twenty-first session of the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
(8.2) I would extend my greetings in particular to the Director-General, whom I congratulate on his re-appointment to the head of our Organization, in the hope that this further period of office will be as constructive as the previous one, or even more so. 1 am aware that this will depend not only on the commitment of the Director-General to his task but also on the Member States' responsible implementation of each and every one of the activities included in the draft programme and budget which he has submitted to this General Conference.
(8.3) I should like to put forward the political viewpoint of the government which I represent within the context of the conditions under which relatively less developed coun- tries such as Bolivia are struggling with underdevelopment, and of the effort of the nation and its determination to overcome the barriers placed on the path to national sovereignty and a juster society by imperialist forces.
(8.4) Bolivia's difficult economic situation is aggravated by the fact that, as a result of a war of usurpation, it has been deprived of direct access to the outside world by sea. At present we are not only encircled but are undergoing an imperialist economic blockade which is a cruel attempt to break our will for autonomy, our will to solve our political problems in our own way without submitting to or having other solutions imposed upon us. In the course of this century Bolivia has been mercilessly exploited through the national agents of foreign interests and also directly by imperialistic trade and industrial mono- polies, which, in pandering to their insatiable craving for domination, have exploited our wealth in a systematic attempt to weaken the Bolivian state and keep it'iin thrall” as ‘a ‘tool to serve their own ends. Nevertheless, Bolivia has fought for freedom not only within its own borders but also, when necessary, going to the rescue of powers which invoked their status as allies as a means of obtaining raw materials from us on preferential terms.
(8.5) The Second World War, in which the democracies and the communists united to fight the countries of the Axis, bled my country of its mineral wealth. Bolivia loyally handed over to its then ally 140,000 tons of tin, a strategic mineral for the armaments industry. Now, forty years later, this same mineral is being used as a weapon by that powerful country to scourge a nation. It is putting its accumulated tin on the world market at prices lower than the cost of production, which is still an extremely profitable move for it, forgetting the difficult years when my country forewent its profits in the belief that it was helping to create a better world.
(8.6) The use which certain big countries are making of principles consecrated by civilized tradition is reducing their validity and emptying them of their content. This is happening with human rights, over which certain powerful governments have established a monopoly, forgetting that they themselves are denying the small countries a basic human right: the right to receive a fair price for the raw materials produced on their territory and for the labour of their workers. This is the right which they should respect in the first place.
(8.7) Mr President, distinguished delegates, I think that if the problems our nations have to face are to be put into proper perspective the statements made in this forum must be seen in the light of the realities to which they correspond. As one distinguished speaker has followed another at this General Conference we have realized that the gap that separates the world of the industrial countries from that of the poor and exploited countries is still widening. On the one hand, we have heard statements which transported us into the realm of science fiction, amazing us with great strides in education, great cultural activity and fabulous achievements and discoveries in the field of science and technology. To us it seemed a dream world, because for us, poor countries, such achievements are dreams, not examples to be followed. On the other hand, the great majority of those who speak from this rostrum, with the same time allotted, perhaps as a sign of equality, do so in a much more distressed state, appealing for freedom and equality. Our laments and good intentions are very remote from the realities of the other countries.
(8.8) It is our view that these General Conferences should not only examine and approve the projects drawn up by technical advisers or submitted by delegations, but discuss in a frank and amicable way Member States' achievements in cultural activities and the causes of any failures. Unesco is the humanistic institution par excellence in today's world, regarding as it does education, science and cultural activities as the most valid means of fulfilling man's destiny. This presupposes the material equality of all the nations associated in a joint effort to increase the value attached to culture, while recognizing the significance of all the various types of culture in the world and their right to existence and freedom.
(8.9) In theory this is the accepted attitude in the Organization. It has not, however, been able to prevail over an obstacle that perpetuates inequality in the treatment of the various members and prevents large numbers of countries from exploiting their educational and scientific potential. This is the obstacle of economic inequality. Culture cannot be promoted without economic resources, especially in an age in which scientific and techno- logical progress is the preserve of the so-called "central" countries, whereas the "peripheral" countries barely manage to meet their material needs, let alone attain their cultural goals.
(8.10) Reviewing the cultural situation over the past few years, Bolivia is proud to report that its literacy rate, especially among the indigenous population, has been rapidly improved without any outside help. Whereas 67 per cent of the population'were illiterate in 1952, only 36 per cent are illiterate at present. We are also pleased to say that the Bolivian state devotes 33 per cent of its budget to public education. However, this percentage represents a very small amount and efforts to extend full schooling are limited by the lack of financial resources, which also prevents us from meeting the need for greater university coverage, research, the conservation of the artistic heritage, the study of foreign languages and of the prehistory of indigenous peoples, the application of technology, vocational training and communications.
(8.11) Culture cannot grow without economic support. In the absence of such support, it remains latent and there is a risk that it will disappear altogether, without becoming a part of national life, so defenceless is it against the invasion of cultural influences from the more powerful nations.
(8:12) In the great work of Unesco, whose mission is to restore the achievements of the human spirit as manifested in the cultures of all peoples, the problem of how to achieve genuine co-operation of the wealthy countries with the poor ones with a view to the econo- mic and cultural development of the latter has not yet been solved. Co-operation for development - which obviously covers culture - is always available, but it is almost a mockery. The theoretical thousandth part of the incomes of the highly developed countries which is contributed to the development of the small countries has dwindled to proportions which are insignificant for those large countries, so that small countries with cultures dating back to antiquity find that even their most pressing needs in education and research are not covered.
(8.13) What is paradoxical is the enormous disparity between the cultural budgets ofithe central countries and their defence budgets. Contributions to Unesco in 1978 enabled the Organization to approve a budget of $300 million. According to the calculations of specia- lists, one million dollars were being wasted every minute in the war industry at that time by the nations of East and West, both aligned and non-aligned. In other words, $300 million were being spent on peace and civilization in comparison with $441,000 million on the destruction of what that civilization-had created. It is estimated that the latter figure will reach $500,000 million during the current year.
(8.14) So what we have today is a dramatic conflict between two kinds of culture: in contrast with the traditional concept of humanistic culture there is now a militaristic culture with its own artists, designers, inventors, researchers and philosophers. The effects of this monstrous paradox are borne by the peripheral countries, as our own experience has shown. All the economic co-operation which Unesco was able to grant to Bolivia under the Organization's participation programme for the 1979-1980 biennium amounted to less than the country's financial contribution to the budget, which means that our weak economy was being drawn on for Unesco's other priority allocations when these could have been more than covered if the big countries had increased their quota for culture, minimal by comparison with their investments in armaments.
(8.15) We are nearing the end of the twentieth century with the mockery of the great economic differences between rich and poor countries aggravated by the fact that sixty times as much is spent on war and destruction as is spent on education, science and culture. When the plan for the industrialization of the Third World was approved in Lima at the second UNIDO Conference it was estimated that by the year 2000 the share of the developing countries in world industrial production would have increased to at least 25 per cent.
(8.16) Not much progress has been made so far towards achieving this goal. Caution is required, for we already have the phenomenon of recession and unemployment, not so much in the underdeveloped countries, but more particularly in the powerful nations. May not the poverty of some be at the root of the crisis of the others? It would seem that in the future there will be no alternative to solidarity among the nations. Otherwise the next century will be a century of universal starvation, insecurity, destruction of nature and, finally, war, which the powers are rejecting verbally but promoting industrially and tech- nically. With this gloomy prospect ahead of contemporary man, we believe that Only if the weak countries unite can the initiative be taken of fostering a truly civilized and rational option in the coming decades.
(8.17) Mr President, distinguished delegates, in conclusion I should not care to miss the opportunity afforded by the choice of the venue of this General Conference to thank the people and the Government of Yugoslavia for their hospitality and to pay tribute, on behalf of the people and the Government of Bolivia, to the illustrious memory of Marshal Josip Broz Tito, who figures in the historical vanguard of the Third World, being one of the first to achieve national independence and autonomy. The example of Yugoslavia, with ite inter- mediate position of sovereignty between the poles of world domination has blazed a trail of hope and faith in their autonomous destiny for countries such as Bolivia, which aspire to fulfil their historic mission independently of ideological monopolies and political dogmas imposed in the interests of countries holding world power. Bolivia, along with Yugoslavia and other Third World countries, while not withdrawing from the exchanges and universality of modern civilization, endeavours to defend not only its cultural values but also its own political and social system, while respecting the principles of integration and international solidarity. Thank you. on The PRESIDENT: I thank the Minister of Education and Culture of Bolivia and I give the floor to H.E. Dr Luis Felipe Alarco Larrabure, Minister of State, Department of Education of Peru, and head of the Peruvian delegation.
(10.1) Mr ALARCO LARRABURE (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish): Mr President, the delegation of Peru is particularly happy to congratulate you on your election. My country, which had the pleasure of receiving a visit from you on the momentous occasion of the instauration of the Constitutional Government, wishes you every success in your important task.
(10.2) We also congratulate Mr Amadou Mahtar M'Bow on his re-appointment to the office of Director-General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
(10.3) TI also bring fraternal greetings to the people and the Government of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which country is offering us much appreciated hospitality and our most cordial wishes for prosperity following the impetus given by Marshal Tito, a figure of universal historical significance in whom the non-aligned countries see one of their most authoritative guides.
(10.4) On behalf of the Constitutional Government of Peru, I extend a cordial greeting to the participants in the twenty-first session of the Unesco General Conference.
(10.5) Mr President, after twelve years of military dictatorship, our Republic has returned to its constitutional sources. This return means that our education policy is inspired by the principles of democracy and human rights to which it is geared. As we have just experienced dictatorship, we believe that the information which we can offer in this respect will be of some value and use to the countries of the Third World.
(10.6) There is a temptation to copy from the more advanced countries, with the result that the cultural heritage is frequently corrupted. The example of the most advanced countries exerts a powerful attraction. Tt is believed that as excellent results have been obtained in these countries, it suffices to transplant their models and procedures to make rapid strides and defeat backwardness and poverty. This belief is often not borne out by the results, however. It is forgotten that every country has to develop from within and find its own way of improving itself. It is well known in Unesco that foreign formulae are not enough. What is ideal in one country may not be ideal in another. Just as every country has created its own culture, it must create its own education system. This means that we must be creative.
(10.7) This does not imply withdrawing into a narrow nationalism and disregarding the contributions of other countries, nevertheless. We undoubtedly live in an age when nations must learn to rise above their differences or their lust for power. What is more, science knows no frontiers. Technology is being introduced into the most remote regions of the globe. So it is essential to be able to fuse the national with the cosmopolitan, the most authentic tradition of a country with new scientific discoveries. This is not possible either for a country subjugated by cultural aggression or the domineering of the new conquistadores who are imposing their ideas on the world, or for a country closed to the outside world and incapable of being fertilized by current trends towards renewal. Knowing how to proportion the two elements is or should be the wisdom of the developing countries.
(10.8) I should like to give an example. The military dictatorship in Peru thought fit to abolish the former division of the school system into primary and secondary. It thought better results would be obtained by establishing a basic course extending from the first to the ninth grade, that is, covering ages six to fourteen. On completing this course, pupils had to do two years of compulsory technical education in the event of their wanting to continue their studies and go on to university. This change in the structure of the curriculum was accompanied by scathing criticism of everything that had been done before. The experiment ended in failure, however, for various reasons. Countries, a large percentage    of whose inhabitants are living in poverty, cannot afford the education provided in wealthier countries. Poor people require a type of school which meets their most pressing needs as soon as possible. This is most apparent in rural areas. For these are the least privileged areas, the ones most in need of technical assistance and therefore of a type of school which serves at the same time as a centre of technical, economic and social advancement. This is the task to which we intend to devote our most strenuous efforts.
(10.9) Under the democratic regime which preceded the military dictatorship, pupils had the option of going on to a course of technical education (agricultural in rural areas) , commercial or general education, each lasting five years, after they had completed six years of primary education. Only the general education course led to the university. More than 50 per cent of the pupils took the technical or the commercial course. This meant that students were assured of the opportunity of going in for medium-level careers when they were very young. This policy may appear inappropriate in wealthy countries. Perhaps it is. In poor countries, on the other hand, when there is no prospect of a short course or a job, pupils drop out of school. The reform undertaken by the military dictatorship postponed this prospect until after three more years of general education.
(10.10) This was one of its mistakes. The other was to make technical education compulsory at this stage of the process. Thus pupils who wanted to study at the university were less well prepared in the theory of their subject than they would have been under the old system. What is more, students who were going in for a liberal profession were unnecessarily trained for a medium-level occupation which they were not going to take up. The greatest drawback of all, however, was the costliness of technical education. A developing country cannot afford to provide technical education for all pupils, including those who intend to take up a liberal profession. In fact the reform was never completed because it was impossible to provide enough technical schools.
(10.11) The present government is planning things differently. We are not thinking of eliminating technical education, but it will be optional. In the first place, on completing their six years of primary education, pupils can choose a commercial, technical or general secondary course. They thus have three options. At the end of this course, those who have chosen the Common Secondary, as we call general secondary education, humanities and science, have access to the university or medium-level university institutions, whether industrial, agricultural, commercial or for teacher training. The main thing is not to prevent anyone from continuing his or her studies, though not necessarily at a university.
(10.12) University education is another of the problems which we have to tackle. As the urban population is increasing by leaps and bounds, the number of school-leavers wishing to pursue their studies at the higher level is likewise increasing. As the pressure is extremely strong, universities and students are increasing in number. Both the academic level and the general entrance qualifications have dropped so that many universities are universities in name only. It is therefore essential to set up alongside the universities educational institutions offering training for medium-level personnel.
(10.13) At present we are conducting preliminary studies with a view to evaluating the results obtained in education. We want to have the opinion of teachers and parents and to be able to assess the levels reached by pupils on the basis of objective tests which are being constructed. For we want to avoid making the mistake of the previous reform, which was evolved by bureaucrats, without prior consultation of those concerned, especially the teachers. Not only was that reform imposed from above after being conceived in the abstract, but it was at the same time a political weapon in the service of the military dictatorship. For this reason it was rejected by the teaching body. It was doomed to failure from the start.
(10.14) One of the major anomalies of the present age, especially evident in the developing countries, is the disparity between words and deeds, between what is promised and what materializes. It is forgotten, perhaps as a result of undue emphasis on book learning to the detriment of the wisdom born of experience, of knowledge acquired on the ich, that is not always easy to give concrete form to every bright idea. Hence the constant dis" crepancy between what is proclaimed and what is done. People think that the best politician is the one who has most to say, finds most to criticize and makes the most promises. Time and again the facts prove the contrary.
(10.15) The present democratic Government of Peru wants to follow a realistic policy- It prefers to confine its attention to a limited number of goals and thus be able to honour its promises rather than to disperse its efforts over a wide variety of fields to carry out a multitude of projects which none of them have any practical impact. One of the most effective means we have of putting our ideas into practice is the old Peruvian tradition of the working bee, the co-operative, which has been kept up by the indigenous population over the centuries. These communities realized that the only way to survive, when they were up against a government which ignored them, was to do things by themselves without expecting official aid which never came. In this way they built their own roads, schools, town halls, churches and cultivation terraces.
(10.16) The government intends to use this co-operative action as a basis, encouraging it by the provision of equipment and technical assistance. Education, too, we regard as a job for the community, involving teachers, parents and the authorities. In this way we believe that the educational process will become more democratic, involving all levels of the population and respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms which, we are convinced, are not meant to remain a dead letter but to be applied in practice.
(10.17) Another task which the Constitutional Government has to tackle is the eradication of illiteracy. It is true that progress has been made in this direction in recent years and that the illiteracy rate, which was 50 per cent in previous decades, has now been reduced to 20 per cent. However, we think that the problem should be correctly posed.    Making a town-dweller literate is not the same thing as making a country-dweller literate, especially if the latter lives in an area remote from any urban centre. In the first case the person who has come from the country to settle feels the need to learn to read and write because town life requires it. He has difficulty in finding employment and in coping with city life if he cannot read. He must therefore be enabled to acquire this skill, which means schools in which he can learn. The city does the rest, affording him thousands of opportunities of applying what he has learned. He will never forget how to read. The situation is different in the country. Here, in backward areas, there are practically no opportunities for reading and the country-dweller lapses into illiteracy if he is not given interesting reading matter to encourage him. In Peru we also have the problem of the indigenous inhabitants who have little or no knowledge of Spanish.
(10.18) .Also central to our government's policy is the democratization of the communication media. This is no vague promise. The media of social communication had in some cases been completely taken over by the state; in other cases the state was the majority shareholder. The democratic government has put an end to this by returning the property to its former owners, while maintaining the industrial community in which the workers participate. Under the military dictatorship the abolition of the freedom of the press and the appropriation of the communication media were aimed at preventing any criticism and imposing a corpus of ideas which had the force of a dogma. Anyone who fought those ideas was arrested or exiled. A great many of the members of the present democratic government found themselves in this situation, including the speaker. This is now a thing of the past and we hope that it will remain so.
(10.19) The Peruvian Government. expressly stated that education was to be given priority. They called their five years in office the Quinquennium of Education. Effective education in inconceivable, however, without well-trained teachers with salaries enabling them to live decently. This is not the case in Peru today. Teachers find it difficult to earn their living. They cannot subsist on their salaries and have to take on other work on the side. Hence their incessant protests, which were violently repressed by the military dictatorship. The teaching body felt humiliated. This was another cause of the failure of the educational reform attempted by the dictatorship. Without the whole-hearted support of the teaching body, its suggestions and its enthusiastic collaboration, any attempt at reform exists only on paper.
(10.20) The Constitutional Government intends to improve the economic status of teachers slowly but surely - within the limits of its possibilities, for the military dictatorship has left the state bankrupt. Of equal importance, however, are the recognition of teachers and of their role in the development of the country, teacher preparation and systematic in-service training in the form of distance teaching and refresher and specialization courses. We also believe that it is of the utmost importance that teachers be able to compare experi- ences when they have an opportunity of meeting foreign experts, whose findings could serve as a useful guide to their application in whole or in part.
(10.21) The new education policy has to be based on research into the national situation. Surveys are being prepared at present. We consider that without some understanding of the various sectors of our society, we shall not be able to get very far in education. Ina country such as ours where there is so much diversity, such marked cultural differences and disparities, it is essential to cater for every cultural category so that education is not experienced as something alien imposed from the outside, but as a means of becoming aware of what is most fundamental to the learner.
(10.22) We believe, that in developing countries such as ours technological training is essential. Various European nations are helping us in this respect - the Federal Republic of Germany and the Netherlands in particular. This collaboration of the most advanced countries in the field of science and technology, which send experts who train counterparts, is most beneficial. Without technology we cannot catch up. We know this. The danger lies in concentrating on this secter and neglecting enduring cultural values, culture being regarded as mere entertainment for one's idle moments and of no practical utility. This conception reduces man to what Ortega y Gasset called the barbarism of the specialist confined within the narrow boundaries of his specialization.
(10.23) This suggests attaching greater value to one's own cultural heritage and getting to know the spiritual heritage of mankind. My delegation will be submitting a project for the donation of works of art as compensation for the loss of other works of art, whereby States possessing objects of cultural value from other states may compensate the latter by making available art works of their own culture. This procedure is intended as an alterna- tive to restitution. Peru strongly supports the restitution rightly promoted by Unesco. However, in cases where this is impossible, we should like the door to be left open for compensation, not of course in money, but in works of art, so that a cultural exchange would be effected and justice would be done at the same time.
(10.24) I might refer to a number of other aspects of the carefully thought out draft programme and budget submitted to us by the Director-General - as, for example, the preservation and presentation of the natural and cultural heritage, to which Peru attaches such importance. However, I prefer to leave these aspects for discussion in the Commissions. Here I shall just say that Peru has faith in Unesco and confidence in its Director-General and that it wants to co-operate closely with the Organization and receive through it the assistance so much needed for carrying into effect the high ideals which inspire Unesco's action.
(10.25) I do wish, however, to draw attention to one aspect, Mr President. Unesco's ultimate purpose is peace, a just peace consistent with achieving the common welfare of mankind through education, science and culture. Such a peace, as we are reminded by the Constitution, is constructed in the minds of men. It is therefore urgent to mobilize minds. This was the plea of His Holiness Pope John Paul II when he visited our Organization in    Paris last June. "The efforts of people's consciences”, he said, "must be increased to match the rising tension between good and evil to which men are being subjected at the close of the twentieth century. We must become convinced of the priority of the ethical over the technical, of the primacy of people over things and of the superiority of the spirit over matter".
(10.26) Mr President, in a crucial moment when for the first time in history mankind has the power to destroy itself, it is more than ever necessary for human beings to rise above their petty national quarrels and to regard other nations as brothers. Unless a truly fraternal feeling is established among nations, growing stronger from day to day - and I do not mean mere oratory or declarations made at congresses and in conventions, but a real rapprochement among nations - mankind will keep running headlong to its ruin. For this reason we must first of all promote solidarity among all human beings and strengthen every- thing that contributes to peace, knowledge and love of others. Only in this way will it be possible for the human race to continue to live on this planet. Thank you. Tr.’ The PRESIDENT: T thank the head of the Peruvian delegation and I give the flooxito H.E. Mr Philip Muscat, Minister of Education of Malta and head of the Maltese delegation for educational and scientific affairs.
12.05"MUSCAT (Malta): Mr President, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the Maltese delegation wishes, first of all, to express its congratulations to you on your election. We are fully confident that under your wise and enlightened guidance the business of this Conference will be conducted in a smooth and efficient manner.
12.2 We also wish to convey to the Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, our government's sincere congratulations on his unanimous re-election to the highest executive post of Unesco. This is a fitting tribute to his dedication and hard work, not only for the good of the Organization but also for the benefit os Member States. We are sure that the next seven years will continue to see Unesco moving ahead, as it has been doing for the past six years, under his able leadership.
12.3 Mr President, my delegation feels proud that this twenty-first session of the General Conference is being held in Yugoslavia, a sister nation in the family of non-aligned states. Yugoslavia, under the inspired leadership of its late, great, President Josip Broz Tito, was one of the founders of the Non-Aligned Movement. LE therefore augurs well for the success of this General Conference session that it is being held in the birthplace of a movement, one of whose principal objectives is the renunciation of the use of force for the settlement of disputes. To our Yugoslav hosts and friends we extend our heartfelt gratitude for their hospitality.
12.4 Mr President, my country is a small, unarmed, developing nation that scrupulously abides by its commitments under international charters and rules. Malta has never posed any threat to any country and it is very unlikely that it will ever be in a position to do so. However, this state of affairs may also constitute a temptation for bigger and stronger countries to hinder us in obtain- ing what is rightfully ours under international law, and thus impede us from fulfilling our aims towards national economic development.
12.5 Unesco is not merely an organization concerned with education, science and culture in their narrow sense. Its vocation covers much more than this.._Trhat fact is amply borne out in the Preamble of its Constitution where, besides the oft-quoted phrase that "wars begin in the minds of men", it is also stated that "peace must be ... founded, if it is not to fail, upon the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind". This "intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind" must again in the words of the Constitution = first of all, express itself in the "democratic principles of the dignity, equality and mutual respect of men". How- ever, it is only through education in its fullest sense that such a mentality can be developed and a congenial international environment created, an environment from which the use of force for the settlement of disputes between individuals and nations has been completely and irrevocably eliminated.
12.6 We of course realize, Mr President, that such a frame of mind can only come about in time through education, and this is one of the main functions of our Organization. Thanks to Unesco, much has already been achieved, but it is equally true that much remains to be done. Great care should therefore be taken to ensure that the lion's share of the resources available to the Organization is allocated to operational activities.
12.7 Mr President, our country has given great priority to education. The past few years have seen it embarking upon an ambitious, although long-overdue, programme of reforms designed to bring our educational system into line with the objectives of Malta's Development Plan for 1973-1980. That plan had made it clear that education has an important role to play in the process of social, economic, political and cultural change.
12.8 The educational reforms carried out included the reorganization of the secondary-school system, the opening of trade schools as a branch of secondary education, the raising of the school-leaving age to 16, the setting-up of a kinder- garten system for three-year olds and - more recently - the launching of worker- student, pupil-worker and extended-skill-training schemes.
12.9 Next, my government turned its attention to higher education where the situation was becoming rather wasteful and self-defeating. The university, under the pretext of autonomy, was not gearing itself to the Island's development, and was conducting courses which, under the guise of liberal studies, were leading us into the blind over-production of unwanted graduates. Conscious of the many socio- political upheavals that such a system was causing in certain developed countries my government, with the limited means at its disposal, wanted a university that was able to make a valid contribution towards the Island's development programme and that was quick to respond to change.
12.10 The principles of productive work and of matching education and educational opportunity to the manpower needs of Maltese society became one of the basic policies of my government. Four different types of productive work activities have been launched in four different sectors of the system. At the primary and second- ary levels, socially useful work is encouraged. Trade schools and technical institutes, besides other things, manufacture and repair school furniture and equipment and sometimes design it as well. An important part of their training is out-station work where the students spend periods of time in industry experiencing actual work conditions. At the upper-secondary level, a pupil-worker system consisting of alternate study and work periods was introduced last year. At university level, courses have been made more functional and the system has been changed to accommodate a worker-student scheme in which employers nominate suitably qualified workers or matriculated school-leavers.
12.11 We sincerely believe that we have produced a system which is worth studying and even adopting, particularly by developing Member States whose economies, like ours, certainly cannot afford the luxury of spending huge sums of money on unproduc- tive projects. Indeed, Mr President, Malta is willing to share its experience and its concern with education with other countries that consider it in their interest to do so. In fact, I should like to take this opportunity to invite other countries, especially developing ones, to study our newly reformed educational system and evaluate it in the light of their particular situations and needs.
12.12 In the cultural field, my government is grateful for Unesco's assistance in our endeavours to exploit the natural vocation of Malta and transform our Island home into a cultural centre in the Mediterranean. In fact, next November will see the convening of a meeting of experts for the purpose of formally setting up a Mediterranean Cultural Centre in Malta; the first step towards the establishment of the centre was taken during the last session of the General Conference. I should also like to take this opportunity to appeal to those states invited to attend it not only to send representatives to this first meeting butialsoito participate fully in all its activities after the centre has been established. There is no need for me to stress that the centre will not be set up simply to propagate the culture of any one nation or ethnic group, but to serve to foster an awareness of the various cultures that have enriched the Mediterranean through- out the centuries.
12.13 It was also during the course of the twentieth session of the General Conference that a decision was taken to launch an International Campaign for the Preservation of the Historic Buildings and Sites in"Malta. That campaign, officially launched by the Director-General during anofficial visit to Malta last February, is now under way. It is estimated that the total cost of the project will be in the region of $5 million. My government has already allocated and will continue to allocate funds for this purpose, but, with the bèst will in the world, it will not be possible for it to find all the funds needed, since there are more important, more basic, priorities of an industrial and economic nature to attend to. Hence we expect other wealthier and more advanced countries to heed the Director-General's appeal for co-operation in this manifestation of international solidarity.
12.14 As for the natural sciences, my delegation notes with satisfaction the determination expressed in document 21 C/5 "to strengthen Member States' ability to draw up and implement science and technology policies, with a view to applying Science and technology to the solution of their development problems". The problem of the transfer of technology today has become a burning issue. Poor, developing countries simply have neither the capability nor the funds needed for the necessary research. These two prerequisites are only available to the deve- loped countries. In this way, the technological gap between rich and poor is steadily becoming wider all the time with the developing countries having no hope of ever catching up.
12.15 It is in this field and for the solution of this problem that Unesco should muster all its resources and come up with some plan of action whereby the rich, industrial nations of the world would share, to a reasonable extent, their techno- logy with their less fortunate brothers and sisters in the community of nations. If capital and research for the development of technology come from the industrially advanced countries, it is the material resources and often the manpower of the Third World that is being used in the process. For this reason alone, not to mention the nobler cause of social justice, the developing nations of the world deserve a far better share in the results of technological progress.
12.16 Another subject to which my delegation attaches great importance is the study of communication problems. Malta notes with satisfaction the proposed formation of a 35-member commission to look into and bring about such improvement as may be necessary towards the establishment of a new world information order. My country has been a pioneering nation in this field as evidenced by its initiative in setting up a Radio and Television Programme Bank both within the Commonwealth and more particularly within the Non-Aligned Movement. My country has also taken the first steps to set up the first Programme Bank for the Non-Aligned Countries of the Mediterranean Region with the support of Unesco. We are, indeed, following this matter with great interest, and we shall not fail to make our contribution to the work of this session on a matter of such vital importance to the developing countries.
12.17 In conclusion, Mr President, I wish Unesco well iinbitsieffortsito raise ithe general levels of education, culture and science. For our part, I should like to assure you that my country, together with all Member States, will not fail to со- operate to the best of its ability in the pursuit of the noble ideals that Unesco stands for.
(14.1) Mr SALMAN (Iraq) (Translation from the Arabic): Mr President, heads of, delegations, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. It gives me great pleasure, Mr President, to congratulate you on your election as President of this session, and I wish you every success. I should also like to express my greetings and esteem for the Chairman and members of the Executive Board for the effort they have put into preparing for this Conference.
(14.2) May I also express my heartiest congratulations to the Director-General on the occasion of his re-election. I should like to point out that this important event is a major victory for the principles and goals of Unesco, and a significant step on the road to the attainment of those goals. We are confident that the Organization will continue to prosper under his guidance, with his outstanding inspiration and ability.
(14.3) TI should like to add that we are very pleased that this session is being held in Belgrade, the capital of Yugoslavia, a nation whose roots in the policy of non-alignment are deep. I should like to extend our thanks to this friendly country for serving as host to the Conference. We wish that it were possible for Marshal Tito to be among us, so that he could introduce the session and favour it with his patronage. However, the holding of the Conference in Belgrade is certainly the best way to honour the memory of this great man, and we find among his associates the best successors to carry on with the mission for which he strove.
(14.4) It also gives me great pleasure to extend greetings to all the states which have recently joined the Unesco family. Furthermore, we are pleased to see and to hear the voice    of Zimbabwe participating with the world in defending truth, freedom and peace at this international gathering.
(14.5) Mr President, in view of the complex world situation, it is clearer than at any time in the past that it is necessary to strengthen the role of the United Nations and Unesco and increase their power to affect the course of international events in the interests of “all peoples and for the sake of the stability of world peace and security and disarmament. We value Unesco's role in the field of the struggle against imperialism and racism, and on behalf of the freedom and sovereignty of peoples, in the context of a just and lasting world peace, in addition to its efforts to secure respect for international law and to set up international relations based on right, justice, and the principles of peaceful coexistence.
(14.6) Mr President, Iraq has a profound belief in the principles of the United Nations and Unesco, and is anxious to abide by them in its dealings with others. In its international relations, Iraq has demonstrated the extent of its devotion to the principles of the struggle against colonialism and racism, the endeavour to achieve world détente and peace, more vigorous efforts to achieve disarmament and to raise the flag of peaceful coexistence between countries with different regimes, the settlement of differences by peaceful means, and the adoption of peaceful solutions to international problems and disputes on the basis of mutual respect for truth, independence, national sovereignty, the assurance of the security of peoples, and world peace. Security, peace, freedom, national sovereignty, and the rejection of racism, aggression and the occupation of the territory of others and interference in their internal affairs - all these, we maintain, are aspects or component parts of a single issue.
(14.7) At the beginning of this Conference we were deeply affected by a noble and stirring appeal which the Director-General made to two countries, one of “them ‘being ‘Trag,” to'settle the dispute between them by peaceful means and end the bloodshed. We fully realize, and appreciate, the significance of that appeal, and we understand that it was prompted by the loftiest of motives and a desire for world peace and solidarity among Third World and non-aligned nations. Iraq welcomed the Director-General's intervention, and as the President of Iraq, General Saddam Husayn, has stated, Irag has welcomed all such appeals and urgings and the various honourable and sincere offers to mediate which have been made in this case. Iraq has announced that it is prepared to cease firing if the other party will do likewise. It has also announced that it is prepared to negotiate, either directly or through a third party, in order to arrive at a formula for a peaceful settlement based on right, justice, and Iraq's national sovereignty over its land and waters - a settlement which will enhance the stability of the region's security and the interests of the states located there, remove them from the arena of international conflicts, strengthen their sovereignty and independence, and make provision for the legitimate interests of the other states of the world.
(14.8) In February 1980 the President issued a national declaration containing clear and well-defined principles ensuring the sovereignty of the Arab nation, its non-involvement in world conflicts, and its rejection of any form of dependence or any foreign military presence in its territory. In addition, the declaration called for the resolution of problems of neighbouring states by peaceful means. What makes the conflict worthy of note is the fact that Iraq has devoted its efforts continuously and exhaustively for over a year to the task of arriving at a formula for a satisfactory peaceful solution to the problems involved, provided that Iraq recovers its rights and provision is made for the interests of all parties. Regarding the outbreak of armed conflict, with all the destructive, painful and distressing consequences that such conflict involves, Iraq is not in any way to blame for this, inasmuch as Iraq was the party which was defending its rights; it was inescapably compelled to take up arms in order to defend its national sovereignty. And while it is not possible to discuss the matter in detail here, we wish to reaffirm our esteem for the appeal made by the Director-General on 24 September 1980 at the plenary meeting. We affirm, to him and to the General Conference, that we ardently desire to reject the logic of strength and ambition and wish to establish relations of good neighbourliness, friendship and peace- ful coexistence with our neighbours, provided that our national sovereignty and our legitimate rights are respected, and provided international law, usage and agreement are observed.
(14.9) Mr President, peace and disarmament naturally enhance the possibility of establishing a new international economic order. We hail Unesco's efforts to explore the concept of such an order more deeply and to emphasize its cultural, social, spiritual and ethical dimensions. Iraq heartily supports the Director-General's efforts in this area, and that support under- scores the importance of international co-operation. Perhaps one of the most promising Suggestions for the strengthening of such co-operation with a view to helping the developing countries was the proposal made by the President of our Republic, Saddam Husayn, at the Sixth Summit Conference of the Non-Aligned Movement in Havana, to the effect that a long-term inter- national fund should be set up to help the developing nations cope with the effects of inflation. He suggested that the advanced industrial nations should contribute to the fund in proportion to the annual inflation which they export to the developing nations, and that the petroleum-exporting countries should also contribute to it. In our view, the implementa- tion of this project would provide a solution to an important and basic aspect of the unfair situation currently prevailing in the economic relations which bind the economies of the developing nations to those of the advanced industrialized nations, and would constitute a fundamental step towards the achievement of a new international economic order... Starting from these principles, during the first seven months of 1979 alone Iraq gave aid to a number of Third World countries amounting to $1,500 millions, equal to the increases in oil prices; this was Iraq's contribution to the aid and development effort aimed at those countries.
(14.10) There is no doubt that the first requirement for the establishment of a just inter- national order in the world is diligent work to reduce the technical and scientific gap between the industrialized and developing worlds. This means that development must be based, not merely on the transfer of old forms of technology, but on something more: on the construc- tion of an authentic, advanced scientific and technical base in the countries of the Third    World. We may expected the imperialists and the Zionists to set a variety of obstacles in the way, however, and to undertake operations involving pressure, theft and informational confusion.
(1474119 Mr. President, the establishment of the new international order requires, of neces- sity, a new information order based upon objectivity and truth, one that is balanced for the benefit of all mankind, without bias. At this point I must pause to commend Unesco's initiatives and efforts along these lines, and to express satisfaction at the positive results achieved by the international conference of government experts which was held this year. We also heartily commend the efforts of the International Commission for the Study of Communication Problems and the constructive report which it has produced. We support the recommendations made in that report, even though they do not go far enough, in the opinion of the developing countries.
(14.12) Mr President, the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983 is a product of accom- modation, taking into consideration resolutions of the General Conference, Executive Board decisions and the results of consultations of Member States and non-governmental organiza- tions. The priority which is given to the growth of activities related to science and technology and their application to development is a trend which we fully support. With regard to the chapter on education, we are in agreement with the proposed substantial support for activities in the field of literacy, with this vital area being given the exceptional importance which it deserves. In this connection, Iraq wishes to state that it is prepared to place its experience at the disposal of Unesco and of the Member States. We also approve of what the draft programme and budget has to say about educational activi- ties for liberation movements and migrants, and activities in the area of the status of women and children, and the education of the handicapped. Concerning the section on culture, we are satisfied with the document's firm support for the preservation and strengthening of the cultural identity of peoples and nations, and the proposals it makes for cultural studies We look forward to the increasing of intellectual financial and managerial support for the programme relating to Arab countries. We welcome the sections of the document which are devoted to activities in celebration of the beginning of the fifteenth century of the Hegira, and we hope that those activities will help to make the essence of Islam and its unfolding human mission better known. We salute Unesco's efforts on behalf of the task of bringing about the return of cultural property. This is a matter which we regard as extraordinarily, exceptionally significant, inasmuch as hundreds of Iraq's most previous archaeological and artistic treasures are in the possession of others, both states and individuals. With respect to the importance which the Arabic language is acquiring as the vehicle of a culture of the first order and an ancient civilization, it is essential to continue to extend its use and to place it on an equal footing with the other more widely used languages within Unesco. We hope that the Conference will support the draft resolutions concerning this matter.
(14.13) Mr President, the Zionist aggression against the Arab nation continues unabated, in the form of repeated attacks upon the Palestinian people and southern Lebanon and the establishment of settlements, and the forcible absorption and annexation of the occupied territories, disregarding all international resolutions and defying world opinion. The zionist occupying authorities have intensified their repressive activities against the people of the occupied territories, and many Palestinian prisoners have fallen victim to the actions of those authorities. As to Jerusalem, that city beloved of all mankind, it has been subjected to a fresh aggression in the Zionist entity's recent adoption of decrees declaring Jerusalem to be its eternal capital. The entire world has condemned these aggressive actions, and the Security Council and the United Nations have adopted strongly worded resolutions concerning them, and similarly the Islamic world and the states of the Non-Aligned Movement have moved to confront this serious situation. Fortunately, the issue of Jerusalem and the issue of the Palestinian people generally have begun to win a measure of objective understanding and legitimate sympathy among steadily growing numbers of people in all parts of the world. It has begun to be realized that the rights of the Palestinian people are the essence of what is called "the Middle Eastern crisis", and that any solution which ignores that fact, such as the Camp David agreements, can be no more than a cover serving to encourage the perpetuation and extension of the occupation and the aggression. This, in fact, is what is actually happening. Our President has emphasized time and again the necessity of working to deal with the matter within the context of the United Nations, on a basis of preservation ‘of the rights of the Palestinian people under the leadership of the Palestine Liberation Organization, their sole legitimate representative. We do not doubt that the struggle of the Palestinian people and our Arab nation will be crowned with a splendid victory in the end, however long this may take. The issue of the Palestinians lies heavy upon the conscience of all mankind. It is the duty of the peoples of the world and all forces of right and freedom to redouble their efforts and action in support of this issue, which is the crucial issue of our time. We anticipate that the General Conference will adopt new positive resolutions addressing the matter, thereby enhancing the Organization's human mission and its role in solving the world's great problems and standing up for human rights. Thank you
15. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Iraqi delegation and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Wilhelm Fabricius, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Federal Republic of Germany, and head of the delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany.
16.1 Mr FABRICIUS (Federal Republic of Germany): Mr President of the General Conference, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany I should like to congratulate you, Mr President of the twenty-first session of the General Conference, on your election to this high office. My delegation will do all in its power to ensure that, under your experienced guidance, the work of this session will be productive and successful.
16.2 May I convey to the Director-General of Unesco the Federal Government's congratulations on his unanimous re-election, which we see as a tribute to the way in which he has performed his functions over the past six years.
16.3 To the new members of our Organization I should like on behalf of my govern- ment to extend a special welcome. We look forward to the particular contribution which each one of them has to make to Unesco's work.
16.4 Host to this twenty-first session of the General Conference of Unesco is-one of the leading states in the Non-Aligned Movement. In this I see a deeper political significance. At this point T should also like on behalf of my delegation to thank the Government and the people of Yugoslavia for their generous hospitality. We can count ourselves fortunate indeed in having the Sava Centre, with its fine architec- ture and impressive facilities, at our disposal.
16.5 Unesco's work is work for the cause of peace. And it is work for the promotion of justice and the rule of law in the interest ofr-alimankind.- These are the principles enshrined in the Constitution of our Organization. And, in the light of the situation facing the nations of the world, they are a binding political imperative. The further economic and social development of the southern regions of the world and with it the peaceful development of the world as a whole is in danger. In this context the conclusions of the Brandt Report are an unmistak- able warning to us all and at the same time an appeal for resolute action.
16.6 In many parts of the world the population is increasing rapidly. At the same time the limits to the world's resources of food, energy and commodities are becom- ing more and more evident. In addition to this comes the steady destruction of our natural environment. The number of people with no prospect of an education or a job is increasing rapidly. “The rise in the price of oil has brought many developing countries to the brink of ruin. Already today over 800 million people are seriously undernourished.
16.7 The mounting burden of arms expenditure in East and West is sapping the economic strength of the industrialized countries, thus impairing their capacity to increase their assistance to developing countries. The arms build-up in the Third World itself deprives these countries of resources essential to economic and social development, resulting in new dangers for political stability.
16.8 The crucial tasks of universal arms limitation and the development of the disadvantaged South can only be carried out if all the countries of the world join together to accomplish them. New and intensified efforts are urgently needed. Mankind, more than ever before requires a new international order in which all countries co-operate on a basis of equality and partnership.
16.9 Unesco is called on to make a contribution here in a special way. Its task, by means of the free exchange of ideas and knowledge, is to lay the spiritual foundations of such an order of co-operation. Reciprocal knowledge of one another is the prerequisite for understanding — and both of these are essential for the building-up of mutual trust, which in turn is indispensable in achieving a reconcilia- tion of interests and the peaceful settlement of conflicts.
16.10 Mr President, Unesco's work cannot be seen in isolation from the work of other United Nations organizations and institutions. However, we shall only be really productive here if we respect the division of labour within the United Nations system and concentrate on concrete, practical work in the sectors which have been entrusted to our Organization. My delegation will do air in its porer itéo assist in this work.
16.11 As a community of states dedicated to the accomplishment of a common task we must respect without reserve the principle of the immunity of the international officials of the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies. This is an indis- pensable condition for their work and it is also a question of human” rights As long as the immunity of an active United Nations official has not on request been revoked by the competent multilateral body, no state may hinder him in his work, let alone hold him in detention. In this matter we stand squarely behind the Director-General of Unesco.
16.12 Mr President, Unesco's tasks have been clearly defined. Our purpose Sto promote collaboration among nations through education, science and curture, “inclua- ing the mass media, in the interest of all mankind. Special consideration should be given in this context to the particular needs of the developing countries.
16.13 The Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983 before us now is marked by clarity and objectivity. I should like to express the appreciation and thanks of the Federal Government to the Director-General and his staff for the work they have done.
16.14 The Federal Government in particular welcomes the concentration in the programme for natural sciences. The struggle to check the further expansion of the desert zones is of great urgency. We shall continue to support it as a matter of priority. The natural science sector will remain a main focus of our co-operation.
16.15 In other sectors the General Conference should, we believe, consider how far the programme can be further streamlined and structured according to clear-cut priorities. The economic and financial problems facing both industrialized and developing countries also necessitate a more cautious approach to budgetary policy in international organizations. In general the group of most seriously affected countries should be given greater consideration than in the past.
16.16 I would appeal here to all delegations to adopt a pragmatic approach to the work of this session and to keep within the agenda. Whoever seeks to burden the work of the General Conference with themes whose discussion is the task of other forums of the United Nations merely delays the execution of urgent work and in so doing undermines the standing and the credibility of our Organization.
16.17 In many countries the general public will only be prepared to support our work in the long run if they are convinced that what we are doing here is concrete work in the service of mankind, and that the funds made available are employed for their intended purpose and according to a clear set of priorities. "Im my country, one of the four largest contributors to Unesco's regular budget it" is a matter "or routine that, in the democratic system we have, the government is accountable to the public for all the money it spends.
16.18 Mr President, Unesco has recognized that the development of the Third World is a central feature of its work. It has accordingly assumed an increasingly active role in this context. For this I feel special credit is due to our Director-General, Mr M'Bow. An organization dedicated to the worldwide promotion of culture and education cannot ignore the great problems of development facing us in many parts of the world. The draft programme now under consideration rightly reflects in both substantive and financial terms this main focus of our work. The Federal Government regards the funds-in-trust programme as well suited to the implementation of concretesprojectsr in this field.
16.19 The importance of education for the development of the Third World cannot in our view be overrated. The World Bank again drew attention to this recently. The transfer to the developing countries of new scientific knowledge and techniques is also crucial to economic development. Equally undisputed today is recognition that the economic development so sorely needed must not jeopardize the cultural traditions of nations. Seen in this light, Unesco's work in the field of culture assumes still greater importance.
16.20 Mr President, one of the main areas of our support for the developing coun- tries is in the communication sector. For years the Federal Government has both bilaterally and multilaterally played a leading part within the framework of Unesco in developing effective media structures in the Third World. Its expenditure in this field in 1979 alone amounted to over US $20 million. It is also a central concern of my country, as regards the exchange of information, to establish a better balance between the industrialized countries and the developing countries. The developing countries must be enabled to participate, not only passively but also in increasing measure actively, through their own media structures, in the worldwide exchange of information.
16.21 The report of the MacBride Commission which is now before us contains a wealth of facts and data on the situation as regards information in all parts of the world and makes far-reaching recommendations. We welcome the report as an important step towards a more objective approach to the problems in this field. It is up to us now, the Member States, to consider it in detail and to draw con- clusions for our work. On behalf of the Federal Government I should like to thank the members of the Commission and in particular their Chairman, Mr Sean MacBride, for their work.
16.22 The Federal Government appreciates the results of the Unesco intergovern- mental conference on communication problems held in April. They constitute a sound basis for our future work. The press, radio, television and other mass media have over the past few decades taken on increasingly important functions, both in the life of the nation and in relations between nations. But the media can only do their job in the field of information and communication if they are free and accountable only to themselves. Without free media there can be no free nation.
16.23 At the last two sessions of the General Conference, the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany proved itself the staunch champion of freedom of information and expression. The rejection of state control and state regimentation    of the information media contained in the Declaration on the role of the mass media 16 adopted in November 1978 is a triumph for freedom of expression and information. And this, in turn, is a triumph for the great cause of human rights. At the same time we see in it a confirmation of our own policy.
16.24 Here in this forum I would appeal now to all members of our Organization to work on the basis of this Declaration to make freedom of expression and information a reality in practice. Nowhere must the individual be deprived of the freedom to form his own judgement on the basis of comprehensive information. And journalists from all media must be able to exercise their profession, to inform the public without fear or favour, in all places and without hindrance. The Federal Government will continue to work to achieve this goal.
16.25 Mr President, in the final analysis, state regimentation of the flow of information spells the end of freedom of expression. State regimentation is the arch-enemy of cultural life. Every culture is the product of interaction between the creative individual and society. Creativity can only flourish in a climate of freedom.
16.26 The Constitution of my country states succinctly: "Art and science, research and teaching shall be free". And this is all, in fact, that a free democratic state can lay down on the relationship between the state on the one hand and art and science on the other. One word more would be one word too many. Our state makes it a sacrosanct principle not to interfere with this liberty in any form whatsoever. It is our conviction that art and science are areas which on no account should be governed by the state, because freedom to create is in our view the quintessence of freedom per se.
16.27 The freedom of art and the freedom of science therefore rightly ifigureiin the catalogue of human rights and fundamental freedoms recognized by the family of nations. In the United Nations Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, all parties to the Covenant undertake to respect the freedom necessary for scien- tific research and creative activity.
16.28 It must remain one of Unesco's foremost aims to defend the freedom of art and the freedom of science against all forms of state tutelage and state control. Whoever is committed to this goal will find in us a firm arty:
16.29 The Draft Recommendation on the Status of the Artist now before the Conference does not in all points accord with our views on this subject. But has suceeded in enshrining the principles that the artist is accountable only himself and must remain free from state tutelage. My delegation is therefore a position to approve this. draft. But it will resolutely resist all attempts water down these principles. The artist as a cultural worker taking his orders from a state bureaucracy: that would be the end of art itself: Mr President, equally incompatible with the freedom of art and science are state restrictions on free encounters between artists and scientists. The promotion of co-operation between nations through such contacts is one of Unesco's principal goals.
16.31 To promote unhindered encounters across frontiers between scientists and scholars is a particular concern of my government. It is our belief that scholar- ship and research can only flourish in a climate of freedom. For freedom from constraint is the essential condition for all forms of intellectual labour or creative work. A central feature of science and scholarship in every field is discussion and dialogue. This dialogue must be carried on across frontiers between disciplines, frontiers between states and frontiers between different ideologies.
16.32 The Federal Republic of Germany was in February host to the Scientific Forum convened on its initiative and supported by Unesco in accordance with a mandate of the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe (CSCE). What my government was seeking to do here was to carry on and develop further the centuries-old tradition of dialogue among scientists and scholars, and thus to give fresh impulses to scientific co-operation. At the CSCE Follow-Up Conference in Madrid we must also make it our aim to achieve further progress as regards unhindered encounters between scholars and scientists in the area of appli- cation of the Final Act.
16.33 Scientific discussion must be as free, as open and as comprehensive as possible. Only in this way can science fulfil its mission to serve mankind, all mankind. The success of scientific work is of vital importance in shaping all our futures, particularly the future of the developing countries. Governments and scientists have a heavy responsibility to bear here. We shall only live up to this responsibility if we co-operate closely and in increasing measure throughout the world.
16.34 The Federal Government intends, during the new Development Decade, to expand its co-operation in partnership with Third World countries in the field of research and technology, making a special effort in particular on behalf of the most seriouslyaffected countries. We are fully aware that many of the technologies we have deve- loped are hardly suited to different economic, technological and social conditions. What we need is a new understanding of the various possible ways in which the coun-tries of the Third World could successfully pursue their development. It is of course up to all these countries themselves to decide what technology best serves their purpose.
16.35 The first priority in many countries of the Third World is to create an adequate scientific and technological infrastructure. This is the essential con- dition for the successful transfer of technology.
16.36 This is confirmed by the results of the Vienna United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development (UNCSTD). My government remains ready in the future, too, to co-operate in a spirit of partnership in developing scientific and technological infrastructures in the Third World.
16.37 My country's doors are wide open to foreign students and scientists. Of the over 50,000 foreign students studying at our universities each year, more than half come from developing countries. Many of them come to us on scholarships. And we also have a large number of trainees from the Third World undergoing vocational training in our schools and enterprises.
16.38 Mr President, so far I have focused my remarks on two basic rights: freedom of expression and information and freedom of art and science. Protecting these rights is, we believe, one of the major challenges facing Unesco as the organiza- tion within the United Nations system with responsibility for culture.
16.39 However, the functions of our Organization go beyond this: we have pledged ourselves through our co-operation to strengthen universal respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms, and thus contribute to the preservationof peace. According to Unesco's Constitution, this is the supreme purpose of our Organization. We are responsible for seeing that this goal is served throughout the world. It goes without saying that in this work education must play an instrumental role.
16.40 The world arena is the scene of many dangerous conflicts. The gap between North and South and the sustained arms build-up all over the world carry within them the seeds of new conflicts in the years ahead. Never before was education for peace as important as it is now. Let us work for this goal, each in his own country, each in his place. Let us not leave this work to the experts. Let us not wait for others to draw up programmes for us. Education for peace begins at home. We must direct our efforts, above all, towards the younger generation; the peaceful settlement of disputes, without the use of force, must become second nature for them. Our aim must be to strengthen the capacity for peace for all of us.
16.41 Of equal importance to education for peace is education to foster respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. Lasting peaceful solutions of conflicts are only possible if there is respect for human rights. Anyone guilty of grave viola- tions of human rights demonstrates his incapacity for peace within his own country and in relations between countries. Education relating to human rights must be an essential component of education. I see it as one of the cardinal tasks of our Organization to ensure that everywhere education for peace is also education relat- ing to human rights.
16.42 With the adoption of the Recommendation on Education for International Understanding, Co-operation and Peace and Education relating to Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms at the eighteenth session of the General Conference, Unesco committed itself to this dual task. It is important to stand firmly by this funda- mental position of our Organization. My government will therefore seek to ensure that at the intergovernmental conference on the implementation of the Recommendation planned for 1982, education relating to human rights is accorded the attention which is its due.
16.43 Unesco itself is an active advocate of human rights. We have a high regard for the work of the Committee of Unesco's Executive Board which deals with matters of human rights. That the governments in question have shown themselves to be co- operative as regards the review of individual cases is a source of encouragement to us. It shows that, where the rights and freedoms of the individual are curtailed by action of the state, appeals to the sense of justice of the community of nations do not remain without effect.
16.44 Human rights must also include the right to education. No one can lead a decent life if this basic right has no concrete substance. And, without provision for broadly based training and education, all development strategies amount in the
840    last analysis to nothing but patchwork. The Federal Government therefore welcomes the higher priority accorded in the programme to the struggle against illiteracy. Weilought. in future to give 'it still higher priority.
16.45 In this connection the Federal Government attaches great importance to the World Conference on Adult Education. But we should all be clear that the ability to read and write alone is not enough. A society marked by rapid change requires from all its members - adults, young people and children - a broad spectrum of knowledge and abilities.
16.46 Mr President, the universal application of human rights is one of the main- springs of the foreign policy pursued by the Federal Republic of Germany, a policy of peace. It is at the same time one of the greatest challenges that will face the international community in future decades. People in my country want just one thing: to live in peace and to work for peace, progress and social justice. Respect and tolerance towards our neighbours, respect and tolerance towards all nations, their cultures and their achievements: that is the spirit in which our children grow up.
16.47 People who in this day and age instil in children prejudice, intolerance, even hatred, towards those who do not share their own ideology are not only in conflict with the principles and purposes of Unesco. They are also destroying the basis for the peoples of the world to live together in harmony and peace.
16.48 Mr President, I spoke at the outset of my remarks of the development of the southern regions of the globe as one of the foremost tasks facing the international community in the years ahead. We are all aware that this great work of development is also fraught with tensions. On the one hand, there is the urgent need to employ all available modern techniques to eliminate hunger and poverty in the Third World and to give people everywhere the chance of a decent life. On the other hand, it is vital for individuals as for nations to preserve their own spiritual and cultural identity. I believe it is quite wrong to see an insoluble conflict here. What we must do is to try and reconcile these two needs.
16.49 It is a fundamental principle of my government's foreign policy that all nations must be free to determine for themselves their cultural, just as their economic and political, systems. We deplore the uncritical transfer of development models. We categorically reject the export of ideologies and attempts to establish hegemony in any form. Everywhere our aim is to help to build structures based on partnership, equality and independence.
16.50 Similarly, my country takes a firm ‘stand against the idea of "cultural export". What we are seeking is rather cultural exchange, genuine cultural co- operation, a reciprocal give-and-take. We want to learn from others, to gain an appreciation of what is unique in their heritage. We hope particularly in the developing countries to help preserve and further develop organic cultural structures and traditions. Humanity needs the rich diversity of all its creative talent. It needs the unique contribution each culture has to make.
16.51 My government fully supports Unesco's work to preserve the world's cultural heritage. We intend to continue this support. We shall be carrying on our efforts in'thisfield'alïlso at the'bilateral TIevel. In’ this"context, Tihould lite 0 to mind the work of the German Archeological Institute in preserving and studying ancient monuments in many countries of the Third World.
16.52 I would recall also in this connection the international cultural symposium, "Bridges across Frontiers", held in Bonn in May and attended by representatives of
50 nations prominent in the cultural life of their countries = 29 of them in the Third World. This free exchange of views on the possibilities and limits of cultural exchange helped to strengthen the idea of cultural co-operation and partnership and gave it fresh impetus.
16.53 Cultural co-operation, particularly today, has a vital function. By building bridges of understanding and communication between nations and cultures it also lays a lasting foundation for political and economic co-operation between states.
16.54 Mr President, today, in the last quarter of this century, mankind is facing its greatest challenge. It has the technical capacity, if used destructively, to plunge the world into chaos. But it has not yet found the moral strength to employ all its intellectual energies and technical capacities in a joint effort dedicated to the promotion of peaceful development. No international formum is better equipped to generate this moral commitment than our Organization. The key lies in our hands: it is the unswerving political will to overcome conflict, self-interest and pre- judice in all its forms and create an order of co-operation dedicated to the service of all mankind. If it is competition that, as I believe, enables nations and states, too, to produce their finest achievements, then now is the time to enter into this competition: a peaceful competition to work out effective and lasting solutions to    the grave problems we are facing. We bear a heavy responsibility for coming generations, for the future of mankind. Let us live up to this responsibility. Thank you, Mr President.
17.7 The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany and I give the floor to H.E. Major Pascal Ntamashimikiro, Minister for National Education of Burundi, and head of the Burundi delegation.
18.1 Le major NTAMASHIMIKIRO (Burundi) .- Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, mes premiers mots seront pour vous présenter, Monsieur le Président, mes félicitations les plus cha- leureuses pour votre élection à la présidence de la vingt et unième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco. En s'associant à votre élection, ma délégation a voulu rendre hommage à votre beau pays, la République fédérative socialiste de Yougoslavie, pour l'action militante qu'elle mène au sein de la communauté inter- nationale dans son ensemble et du groupe des pays non alignés en particulier.
18.2 En effet, Monsieur le Président, nul n'ignore que la première Conférence des chefs d'Etat des pays non alignés a tenu ses assises dans cette belle capitale en
1961. Depuis, la Yougoslavie a toujours été un symbole de liberté, d'autogestion, de non-alignement et de volonté de négociation internationale. C'est cette tradi- tion qui, jointe äà vos’ qualités d'homme d'Etat et de large culture, constitue un gage de succès de notre Conférence. Je m'en voudrais, après tant d'autres éminents orateurs, de ne pas évoquer la mémoire du maréchal Joseph Broz Tito, leader et stratége de la Révolution du peuple yougoslave et un des pères fondateurs et des animateurs du mouvement des non-alignés. La disparition, cette année, du maréchal Tito a été vivement ressentie dans le monde entier.
18.3 Je voudrais également, à cette occasion, transmettre, au nom de la Répu- blique du Burundi, de ma délégation et en mon nom propre, les félicitations les plus chaleureuses à M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow pour sa brillante réélection au poste de Directeur général de notre Organisation. Qu'il me permette de lui exprimer notre gratitude et notre admiration pour l'extraordinaire travail qu'il a accompli depuis qu'il est à la tête du Secrétariat et de l'assurer de notre constant sou- tien dans l'accomplissement de sa lourde et noble tâche.
18.4 Je saisis, enfin, cette occasion, pour souhaiter la bienvenue aux Etats deve- nus récemment membres de l'Unesco et, en particulier, à l'un d'entre eux, le Zim- babwe, dont l'accession à l'indépendance, cette année, a jeté bas l'un des der- niers bastions du colonialisme’ en Afrique.
18.5 Monsieur le Président, la ferme volonté qu'ont manifestée les Etats membres de créer l'Organisation pour l'éducation, la science, la culture et l'information, à l'issue de la Deuxième Guerre mondiale, a constitué un événement dans l'histoire de l'humanité. Il a ainsi été clairement prouvé que le monde était las des malheurs de la guerre et du déchirement des peuples et que la compréhension interna- tionale ne pouvait exister si elle n'avait pas pour fondement le savoir. Dès son accession à l'indépendance, le Burundi a fondé de grands espoirs sur l'Unesco et n'a pas cessé de lui apporter, dans la mesure de ses modestes moyens, un appui sans réserve dans l'accomplissement de ses idéaux.
18.6 La réalisation des idéaux qui ont été à la base de la création de notre Orga- nisation se heurte à la situation mondiale actuelle. Notre système international se caractérise, en ce moment, par des inégalités qui ne se limitent pas aux rela- tions économiques, au commerce international ou aux problèmes monétaires, mais concernent aussi l'échange des connaissances.
18.7 Les inégalités et les déséquilibres qui existent en matière d'information, le développement de l'éducation, d'accès à la culture, et de répartition du poten- tiel scientifique et technologique devraient susciter une prise de conscience plus aiguë de la part de la communauté internationale et inciter celle-ci à construire un monde plus juste et plus uni.
18.8 C'est pour exprimer devant le monde entier les préoccupations de notre pays dans ces domaines que S. Exc. le Président de la République du Burundi, le colonel Jean-Baptiste Bagaza, s'est personnellement rendu à New York pour participer à la trente-quatrième session de l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies et qu'il a ai= rigé la délégation de notre pays au sommet extraordinaire des chefs d'Etat et de gouvernements africains tenu à Lagos en avril dernier afin d'élaborer une nouvelle stratégie de développement.
18.9 Ma délégation salue les initiatives prises et le travail accompli par l'Orga- nisation en ce qui concerne l'élucidation de la notion de nouvel ordre économique international ; elle souhaite que les actions entreprises en vue de l'instauration du nouvel ordre soient poursuivies. L'effort doit continuer à porter non seulement        sur la croissance économique, mais aussi sur la promotion de la science et de la technologie, de l'information et de la communication, de l'éducation et de la culture.
18.10 Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi de féliciter le Directeur général et le Secrétariat, pour le soin avec lequel ils ont préparé les principaux documents de la Conférence générale et, en particulier, le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1981-1983. Je tiens à dire combien ma délégation appuie les efforts déployés. Ce document définit les objectifs essentiels de l'activité de l'Unesco au cours des trois prochaines années. On y trouve une réaffirmation de la nécessité d'assu- rer le respect des droits de l'homme et de lutter plus activement en faveur d'une paix mondiale fondée sur le droit et la justice. Y sont énoncés également les prin- cipes de justice sociale qui doivent présider à un développement global axé sur l'homme qui en serait à la fois la fin et le moyen. Nous souscrivons aux passages du document consacrés aux périls que court le monde du fait de la persistance scan- daleuse du colonialisme, de l'impérialisme et du racisme, qui sévissent au mépris de la volonté des peuples et de leur droit à la vie et à l'autodétermination.
18.11 La République du Burundi saisit tout l'intérêt des principes directeurs contenus dans l'introduction du document 21 C/5. Ce texte souligne, avec force et clarté, l'importance du développement et la nécessité de le purifier d'éléments ressortissant à l'esprit de compétition et à la volonté d'exploitation et de spo- liation des peuples. Tout en appréciant hautement l'intérêt porté au développement global et endogène, nous tenons à souligner la nécessité d'établir un lien entre le développement et l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international, fondé sur les principes de justice et d'égalité des chances et exempt de toutes les tares de l'oppression directe ou indirecte.
18.12 Une question qui revêt dans le monde actuel une importance vitale est la liquidation du sous-développement et de la division du monde entre pays nantis et pays pauvres. C'est un fait manifeste que les aspirations des peuples au progrès, et plus particulièrement celles des peuples des pays les moins développés, ne sau- raient être satisfaites tant que le système mondial actuel caractérisé par l'iné- galité et l'exploitation n'aura pas été remanié.
18.13 Nous nous félicitons de constater que l'Unesco, par son action intellec- tuelle, éthique et opérationnelle, ne cesse d'apporter, avec ses moyens propres, une contribution éminente à l'instauration d'un climat de paix et de compréhension internationale, au progrès de tous les pays et à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international.
18.14 Pour sa part, le Burundi estime que la liquidation du sous-développement passe, non seulement par une mise en valeur accrue des richesses naturelles, mais également par la formation des cadres nationaux destinés à assurer la construction économique et sociale. C'est dire que le développement de toutes les formes d'en- seignement, la démocratisation de celui-ci comme la formation de la jeune généra- tion, constituent autant d'impératifs modernes du progrès des peuples et, en der- nier ressort, de l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre mondial.
18.15 Monsieur le Président, ma délégation aura l'occasion d'exposer plus en dé- tail, au cours des travaux en commissions, son point de vue sur les propositions formulées par le Directeur général et avec lesquelles nous voudrions dès mainte- nant exprimer notre accord.
18.16 Pour ce qui est de l'éducation, le Burundi accorde une attention particu- lière au contenu de l'enseignement et au resserrement des liens de l'éducation avec la recherche et la production afin que l'école, en général, et les institu- tions d'enseignement, en particulier, deviennent de puissants centres d'éducation et de production. L'éducation est un des principaux facteurs de développement, de culture et de civilisation. C'est pourquoi elle doit &tre congue en fonction des valeurs et des besoins de la société et non imiter des modèles étrangers. C'est dans ce sens que vont les efforts déployés par le Burundi, en vue de se doter de la capacité nécessaire à l'élaboration de sa propre stratégie éducative et de pro- grammes tenant compte de nos valeurs culturelles ainsi que des particularités de notre environnement et de nos ressources naturelles.
18.17 Pour ce qui concerne les sciences exactes et naturelles auxquelles mon pays attache également une attention particulière, je voudrais dire une fois encore combien nous apprécions le fait que l'Unesco se soit orientée vers la mise en place de structures nationales de recherche, et ait donné la priorité aux activi- tés intéressant la science et la technique afin de répondre aux préoccupations majeures de nos pays en développement. Ceux-ci, conscients des entraves à leur liberté que crée leur dépendance technologique, ressentent, d'une manière pres- sante, la nécessité de bénéficier de transferts de technologie susceptibles de leur apporter, par le progrès technique, des solutions concrètes aux problèmes les plus urgents de production, d'emploi et d'élévation du niveau de vie de leurs peuples.
18.18 Au cours des derniéres années, la place des sciences exactes et naturelles n'a fait que s'accroitre et c'est avec satisfaction que nous constatons que les propositions contenues dans le Projet de programme sont largement inspirées des réflexions et des débats de la Conférence des Nations Unies sur la science et la technique au service du développement tenue a Vienne en août 1979.
18.19 Monsieur le Président, la délégation de la République du Burundi voudrait dire l'intérêt qu'elle attache au Programme intergouvernemental sur l'homme et la biosphère, au Programme international de corrélation géologique, au Programme hy- drologique international ainsi qu'aux projets majeurs régionaux proposés. Les acti- vités prévues dans le document 21 C/5, en vue du renforcement de l'enseignement de la science et de la technique rencontrent les préoccupations de mon pays dans ce secteur et reçoivent, par conséquent, notre soutien le plus ferme.
18.20 En ce qui concerne les activités ayant trait à la culture et à la communica- tion, ma délégation est favorable au programme triennal proposé du fait que ces activités continueront à tendre vers le même but fondamental : préserver et affir- mer l'identité culturelle des diverses nations qui ont longtemps subi l'impéria- lisme culturel.
18.21 Nous sommes persuadés, en République du Burundi, que l'intention de dé- velopper la culture nationale ou l'affirmation d'une identité culturelle ne suffisent pas pour que cette culture s'épanouisse et s'impose. Il faut, parallèle- ment, élever le niveau d'éducation du peuple tout entier et améliorer ses condi- tions matérielles de vie.
18.22 Monsieur le Président, un des points importants qui figurent à l'ordre du jour de la présente session de la Conférence générale est l'étude du rapport du Directeur général sur les conclusions de la Commission internationale d'étude des problèmes de la communication. La question de la communication a déjà donné lieu à un débat sérieux et enrichissant depuis la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale. L'adoption, en 1978, de la Déclaration sur les principes fondamentaux concernant la contribution des organes d'information au renforcement de la paix et de la compréhension internationale a été un moment pathétique. Cependant, la pour- suite de la réflexion et la confrontation des idées parfois divergentes sur la nécessité d'un nouvel ordre mondial de l'information s'imposaient et le rapport qui nous est soumis en est un premier résultat.
18.23 L'effort de réflexion amorcé doit s'élargir et déboucher sur l'action. C'est pour cela que, tout en félicitant le Directeur général pour la place impor- tante accordée & се problème et pour la qualité du document soumis 3 notre examen, nous l'encourageons à inscrire dans le prochain Plan à moyen terme ainsi que dans le prochain Projet de programme et de budget, des actions concrètes conduisant au nouvel ordre mondial de l'information. De plus, nous croyons que la communauté internationale devrait se montrer plus généreuse de son aide aux pays en voie de développement pour qui les médias sont des moyens de formation leur permettant de progresser rapidement sur la voie du développement économique et social.
18.24 Monsieur le Président, je m'en voudrais de terminer mon intervention sans souligner combien'les moyens mis à la disposition de l'Organisation et, en particu- lier du Secrétariat, doivent correspondre aux ambitions du programme élaboré. Le budget proposé mérite notre soutien et l'appui de tous. C'est ainsi que le débat auquel nous participons pourra se traduire en programmes concrets qui sont pour les peuples les plus démunis une image réelle et vivante de la solidarité interna- tionale. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. vo The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Burundi delegation and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Délinois Martin Célestin, Ambassador of Haiti to Paris, permanent delegate of Haiti to Unesco and head of the Haitian delegation.
20.1 M. CELESTIN (Haiti) .- Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, de vous féliciter pour votre brillante élection et vous assurer que vous trouverez auprès de mon pays et de ses représentants un appui franc et loyal dans l'exercice de vos délicates fonctions.
20.2 Nous saluons et remercions votre prédécesseur, M. Napoléon LeBlanc, brillant représentant d'un pays voisin et ami d'Haïti, qui а su, durant ces deux dernières années, accomplir avec le tact et la compétence que nous lui connaissons les lourdes tâches que nous lui avions confiées.
20.3 D'une session à l'autre s'agrandit la famille des peuples libres qui unissent leurs efforts pour la consolidation des nobles idéaux qui constituent la substance même de notre Organisation. Ma délégation souhaite donc la bienvenue aux        nouveaux Etats membres et exprime le voeu que s'établissent entre la République d'Haïti et eux des liens d'une fructueuse et fraternelle coopération.
20.4 Monsieur le Directeur général, je prie le Président de me faire l'amitié de vous dire que la délégation d'Haïti est heureuse et fière de vous exprimer sa joie et sa satisfaction pour le nouveau mandat de sept ans dont la Conférence générale vous a investi lors de sa séance plénière du 27 septembre 1980. Par le vote una- nime de leurs représentants, les Etats membres vous ont ainsi rendu un hommage éclatant au terme des six dernières années pendant lesquelles vous avez donné au monde entier la mesure de votre talent, de vos vastes ressources d'homme de science et d'administrateur. Haïti se souvient encore avec émotion de votre der- nière visite effectuée en mars de cette année, visite au cours de laquelle vous avez lancé la campagne internationale en faveur de la restauration et de la conser- vation de la Citadelle La Ferrière, du Palais Sans-Souci et du site des Ramiers. Le peuple et le gouvernement de la République d'Haïti ont de bonnes raisons de saluer vos succès comme étant les leurs propres.
20.5 Messieurs les délégués, pour la vingt et unième fois au cours de ses trente quatre années d'existence, l'Unesco nous réunit sur un point du globe pour poser ensemble les grands problèmes mondiaux de l'éducation, de la science, de la cul- ture et de la communication. Que ce point du globe soit le territoire de la Yougo- slavie, voilä qui nous réjouit et nous fournit l'occasion de saluer la mémoire du regretté Maréchal Tito, cofondateur du mouvement des non-alignés et un des génies politiques de notre siècle. Nous en profitons pour remercier les autorités yougo- slaves et la population de Belgrade pour leur chaleureuse hospitalité.
20.6 Mesdemoiselles, Mesdames, Messieurs, la qualité exceptionnelle de la coopé- ration entre la République d'Haïti et l'Unesco est due à la parfaite adéquation entre nos projets de développement éducatif et culturel et les actions opération- nelles de l'Organisation dans les différents secteurs d'un plan concerté.
20.7 Les objectifs qu'ambitionne d'atteindre notre nouveau système éducatif sont ceux-lä mêmes qui bénéficient de ressources supplémentaires dans le Projet de pro- gramme et budget qui nous est soumis cette session. Permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, de vous en résumer la substance : former des citoyens responsables et capables de devenir des agents et des accélérateurs du développement économique et social de l'ensemble de leurs concitoyens ; faire particper l'homme haïtien à la vie de sa communauté de façon consciente, responsable, compétente et productive ; donner une formation qui rend capable de modifier les conditions physiques, maté- rielles et spirituelles du milieu pour créer plus de richesses, de biens et de services et contribuer ainsi à l'amélioration de la qualité de la vie aux niveaux local, régional et national ; développer une conscience nationale favorable à des attitudes positives en rapport avec l'enrichissement du patrimoine socioculturel comme source d'épanouissement individuel et social.
20.8 Quand nous parcourons le programme proposé, dont nous approuvons globalement les nouvelles approches, la coordination et une certaine concentration des objec- tifs, nous devons souligner notre intérêt majeur pour certaines actions précises que nous avons relevées dans les différents chapitres.
20.9 Dans le domaine de l'éducation, nous apprécions en particulier les objectifs concernant la généralisation de l'enseignement primaire et la lutte contre l'anal- phabétisme ; les actions visant à les réaliser contribueront, j'en suis convaincu, à aider les pays de l'Amérique latine et des Caraïbes à tenir leur engagement de parvenir à une scolarisation totale au terme des vingt prochaines années. Nous sommes favorables à l'adoption d'un objectif spécifique relatif à l'enseignement technique et professionnel qui, nous l'espérons vivement, permettra la promotion de technologies adaptés à notre contexte socio-économique. Le renforcement des activités de formation des femmes en milieu rural est une composante essentielle de l'éducation des adultes en vue d'un développement rural parfaitement intégré.
20.10 Dans le secteur des sciences exactes et naturelles, nous soutenons la mise en place de huit projets majeurs et soulignons l'intérêt particulier que nous por- tons à la réalisation du projet relatif à l'utilisation rationnelle et à la conser- vation des ressources en eau en milieu rural. гот Les actions envisagées pour atteindre les objectifs établis dans le do- maine de la culture nous permettront d'accomplir des progrés décisifs dans la récu- pération des documents concernant notre histoire, la préservation de nos sites et monuments historiques, l'étude et l'utilisation de notre langue nationale et l'af- firmation de notre identité culturelle. Nous comptons en particulier instaurer et développer des échanges et des contacts à tous les niveaux avec les fils de l'Afrique, notre "Alma Mater" et la diaspora africaine dans le Nouveau Monde, grâce au démarrage de notre Institut d'études et de recherches africaines.
20.12 La décentralisation en cours des activités opérationnelles de l'Unesco et l'ouverture envisagée d'un sous-bureau régional pour l'éducation en Haïti comblent nos voeux en facilitant l'adéquation de l'action opérationnelle de l'Organisation aux réalités culturelles de mon pays.
20.13 Monsieur le Directeur général, nous apprécions hautement votre attitude intangible et intransigeante de respect absolu du pouvoir de décision des Etats membres pour ce qui est de l'identification et de la préparation des projets na- tionaux. L'assistance et la coopération constituent un des éléments fondamentaux de l'établissement d'un nouvel ordre international plus juste et plus harmonieux dans tous les domaines notamment économique et culturel et dans le libre échange des informations où, tour à tour, chacun donne et reçoit. Cette solidarité qui doit unir tous les peuples constitue la seule voie de l'avènement d'un monde de paix, de justice et de liberté.
20.14 La coopération internationale, pour être plus efficace, doit être librement concertée et harmonisée, évitant par là que des activités identiques soient menées ddns un méme secteur par des organismes qui s'ignorent. Nous sommes comme vous, Monsieur le Directeur général, pour le strict respect des dispositions du para- graphe 23 de l'annexe a la résolution 32/197 de l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies. Allant plus loin encore, nous souhaitons que tous les organismes de coopé- ration multilatérale et bilatérale agissent de concert avec les autorités natio- nales pour élaborer et réaliser des projets intégrés. L'action de l'Unesco en Haïti a permis d'amorcer cette approche commune et nous nous félicitons des pre- miers résultats obtenus.
20.15 Nous appelons de tous nos voeux la mise en oeuvre concrète d'une plus large coopération entre les pays en voie de développement, qui doivent s'informer mutuel- lement et partager leurs expériences.
20.16 En conclusion, Monsieur le Président, nous sommes séduits par la qualité et la clarté des buts définis dans le Projet de programme et de budget et nous appor- terons notre soutien total au projet de résolution portant ouverture de crédits pour 1981-1983.
20.17 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, distingués délégués, à une époque où la faim, la maladie, l'ignorance et toutes sortes de misères phy- siques et morales désolent d'immenses régions de notre planète, à une époque où l'humanité entiëre tremble sous la menace d'une fin apocalyptique que l'accumula- tion systématique et démentielle d'engins de destruction de toute nature semble rendre chaque jour plus imminente, n'est-il pas souverainement réconfortant qu'à l'occasion de nos assises, des hommes et des femmes de toutes races soient venus des quatre coins de la terre pour communier dans un même désir de cordiale entraide ? Nous ne saurions trop exalter la haute signification que revêt ce spec- tacle dans le contexte mondial actuel, alors que non loin de nous retentissent hélas ! les lugubres clameurs de combats fratricides.
20.18 Aussi, devons-nous vivement souhaiter que notre Organisation, sous l'heu- reuse impulsion de M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, au dynamisme et au dévouement duquel la Conférence générale, par un vote unanime, vient de rendre un éclatant hommage, nous devons ardemment souhaiter, dis-je, que, sous son intelligente orientation, l'Unesco poursuive inlassablement à la fois l'élaboration conceptuelle et l'appli- cation pratique d'une doctrine humanitaire, d'une philosophie généreuse qui, en sous-tendant notre propre action, celle des autres institutions et les efforts de tous les hommes de bonne volonté, puisse progressivement nous délivrer de nos dé- tresses, nous affranchir de nos angoisses et hâter l'avènement d'une véritable ère de paix, de concorde, de fraternelle et féconde collaboration des Etats et des peuples. PA: The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Haitian delegation and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Ralph Owen Slatyer, Ambassador, permanent delegate of Australia to Unesco and head of the Australian delegation.
22.1: AMCSSLATYER (Australia): Mr President, I should like to begin my remarks by thanking the Government of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for providing such excellent facilities for this session of the General Conference, and by congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the presidency.
22.2 Australia considers that the Member States of Unesco are privileged to be holding the twenty-first session of the General Conference in Belgrade, the capital city of a country which is a staunch supporter of the United Nations and which, over the past two decades, has played a significant role among the non-aligned nations. We were all saddened by the death earlier this year of President Josip Broz Tito.    He was an assiduous fighter for international peace and co-operation and for the principles of the United Nations Charter. With his passing, Yugoslavia and the international community have lost a great leader. We welcome the assurance of President Mijatovié that Yugoslavia will continue its commitment to the role and objectives of the United Nations and to the work of Unesco.
22.3 Mr President, I also wish to extend to the Director-General Australia's warmest congratulations on his reappointment to the highest executive office of the Organization. Mr M'Bow has completed one term of this arduous office with distinction and guided the Organization through a difficult period in its develop- ment. We should like to express our appreciation of his past efforts and assure him of our whole-hearted support in the years that lie ahead.
22.4 Ks a first gesture in this-regard; Mr:Presidenty we wish to record our commitment to the independence of the international civil service, as an essential ingredient for the proper functioning of the United Nations system. In recent circumstances this independence has been threatened in Unesco itselfieandawe fully support the Director-General in his efforts to uphold the fundamental principles which are involved.
22.5 May I also join other delegations, Mr President, in welcoming the new members of the Unesco family and in particular those which share unique ties deriving from common membership of the Commonwealth. Let me welcome especially Zimbabwe which has moved so rapidly after independence to become a member of this Organization. It is also with special pleasure that Australia welcomes Unesco's 153rd Member State, the Kingdom of Tonga, an island nation close to Australia in geographical location and in the traditions associated with our common membership of the Commonwealth and of the South Pacific Forum. Tonga's membership makes the Organization distinctly more representative of a significant area of the globe, the Pacific, and thus of ithe international community as a whole.
22.6 I will now take up a matter which has been of serious concern to my country for some time. And that is the way in which the General Conference has been used as a forum for the airing of political issues which we consider go beyond Unesco's Constitution on some occasions, and detract from its essential purposes. Under the guise of resolutions on peace, human rights and similar worthy goals, there have been attempts to introduce the type of politicization which tends to divide rather than to unite us. In 1976 we saw the beneficial effects of the "spirit of Nairobi" on the workings of the General Conference. May I now endorse the plea of the Director-General at our opening session, that this year, in Belgrade, we will once again be moved to a mood of genuine co-operation in those matters which are uniquely Unesco's, leaving extraneous political debate to the other forums where it properly belongs. Although debate, resolutions and declarations are the tools with which we carry out our work, we do not think that they should become ends in themselves.
22.7 Basically, Mr President, Australia would also like to see new recognition of the words and intent, as well as of the spirit, of the Constitution of Unesco. Ln Article IV, the Constitution states that "The General Conference shall determine the policies and the main lines of work of the Organization". Unfortunately, we are all aware that this has not been the major activity of the General Conference in recent years. Instead, we spend much of our time in a detailed examination of the draft programme and budget for the biennium (in this case the triennium) to come, which commences a few weeks after the conclusion of each session, and rela- tively little time on a fruitful discussion of the policies or main lines of the Organization's programme. In most respects, Mr President, the C/5 document “is not a draft, but a final programme, which has been in preparation for two years, and to which only cosmetic and minor changes can be made. In our view it is not only inappropriate, but also pointless, for us to spend most of our time on it.
22.8 I emphasize this point, Mr President, because most of the delegates to this Conference are distinguished and expert in one or more of the fields of Unesco's competence and, particularly if new to the Organization's methods of work, have come to this session in the expectation of discussing important matters Of ‘substance. We run the risk that they may return home disillusioned, frustrated and disappointed that they have not been able to spend as much time as they had hoped on serious discussion of broad programme issues and policy.
22.9 These delegates are our ambassadors-at-large. If they carry back adverse impressions to their countries, national support for Unesco is reduced, and the high standing which Unesco has had in the past with the world's educational, scientific and cultural community is threatened. If, however, the General Confer- ence does encourage debate on important matters of substance, these same delegates will contribute to the strengthening of national and global support for ‘Unesco. In our opinion, Mr President, this is a serious matter, and one on which Unesco's own future success and effectiveness largely depends.
22.10 We know that others share our concern; the issue of the working methods of the General Conference has been canvassed many times, and it appears once again on the agenda for this session. Is there a solution? We believe there iszrand-that the key to it lies in the role of the Executive Board. Again, turning to the words of the Constitution, Article 5 states that "The Executive Board shall ... examine the programme of work for the Organization and corresponding budget estimates sub- mitted to it by the Director-General ... and shall submit them with such recommenda- tions as it considers desirable to the General Conference". This is a logical and appropriate role for the Board to play. The preparation of a C/5 document should involve unhurried and far-ranging discussions, including examination of alternative programme proposals. Such activities cannot be conducted satisfactorily within the context of a tightly scheduled General Conference session. But the Executive Board is well equipped to examine the draft, or drafts, as thoroughly as it likes, questioning, probing, suggesting alternative approaches, and generally subjecting the programme to the kind of detailed scrutiny which the General Conference attempts and is usually unable to achieve.
22.115 Enithis «context, Mr. President «I should like. .to express the concern which Australia feels at the prospect of a further increase in the size of the Executive Board. While we can understand the desire of countries to be represented on the Board as frequently as possible - a desire which we certainly share - we are conscious that, as the Board gains in size, its ability to discharge its constitu- tional duty as a major organ of Unesco is progressively weakened. In our view, this question of the Board's effectiveness is of such importance to the future of Unesco that it is in all our interests to approve no further increase in its membership at this session of the General Conference. Instead, we recommend that the question of the optimal size of the Board and the nature of its membership in relation to its constitutional responsibilities should be studied in depth and that the results of this study should be brought to the next regular session of the General Conference, together with appropriate recommendations. If other countries share our concern on this vital matter, we would hope that the various proposals for an increase in the membership of the Board might be withdrawn.
22.12 May I now turn to the Director-General's request to heads of delegations to focus their remarks on certain important matters related to the general policy of the Organization. The Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989 heads this list, and is surely the most significant of these items.
22.13 The first Medium-Term Plan, spanning a period now drawing to an end, is a valuable document but one cannot escape the conclusion that it was devised on the basis of the existing programme - in other words that the C/4 was fashioned to fit the C/5. The preparation of the next Medium-Term Plan, however, will provide the Organization with its best opportunity yet to take stock of what has been achieved and to rethink, in a profound manner, the future directions of the programme. In our view, one should follow from the other: by assessing the effectiveness of existing programmes, a firm basis can be established for giving priority to those activities that are most urgently needed by the world community and which Unesco has the capability to undertake.
22.14 It is pleasing to note the steps that the Director-General proposes for the
1981-1983 programme cycle, namely the introduction of an evaluation mechanism for the action set out in document 21 C/5. We were very pleased last week when Pro- gramme Commission II reaffirmed its wish, contained in a resolution of the previous session of the General Conference, that a high-level working group should review the progress and future directions of the science programmes, and we hope that this group will now be established immediately.
22.15 At the present session of the General Conference, Australia is proposing that a similar high-level working party should be established for the education pro- grammes. We would like to see the evaluation process further developed and accelerated, so that some of its results may be taken into account in the preparation of the next Medium-Term Plan.
22.16 Also to be taken into account are the views of Member States which will be canvassed by means of a questionnaire consultation due early next year. We urge Member States to participate actively in this consultation. Disappointingly few Member States responded to last year's questionnaire on the preparation of the Programme and Budget for 1981-1983, but each Member State, each region, must have its own ideas about the future directions of the programme. Let us make them known to the Director-General.
22.17 The National Commissions of the Asia and Oceania region have been examining the possibility of convening a meeting early next year to consider approaches to the next Medium-Term Plan; the National Commissions of the European region held such a meeting earlier this year. We hope that the Director-General will reap a rich crop of responses from such meetings, reviews and consultations so that they    can become the foundation on which the next Medium-Term Plan is structured. We hope that the new Plan will be a challenging document, focusing on major problem- based multidisciplinary objectives for Unesco's future work and providing a conceptual framework from which each biennial programme can be derived. Logically, each such biennial programme should follow closely the format of the Medium-Term Plan. In our view, this means that the C/5 document should be brought into line with the structure, by objectives, of the C/4 document.
22.18 Mr President, while we are aware that the present sectoral structure of the Secretariat has served the Organization well, we are conscious that the objectives of the new Medium-Term Plan are likely to pose exciting opportunities for inter- sectoral co-operation. It is possible that the present structure may inhibit rather than encourage the achievement of these objectives, and we hope that the Director- General will ensure that, if necessary, the Secretariat is restructured to enable it to work with maximum flexibility and effectiveness. In concluding my remarks about the new Medium-Term Plan, Mr President, I should like to sound a note of caution concerning the budgetary component of each of the future biennial programme documents. During the discussion on the draft budget for the forthcoming triennium in the Administrative Commission this week, it has become strikingly obvious that almost all Member States are at present encountering serious internal financial problems, and are concerned that these problems may become worse, rather than better, during the next few years. Consistent with Australia's domestic financial policies, we have maintained, in all international forums, that the budgets of international organizations should reflect, as far as possible; “zero or near-zero real growth; we are therefore concerned at the relatively high growth rates projected for Unesco in the present draft programme and budget.
22.19 We are not questioning the value of Unesco's programme objectives, Mr President, but rather stating that the Organization must work within the frame- work of funds that can realistically be made available, given the problems faced by Member States. Against this background, we consider that no target or indicative figures for real growth should be included in the new Medium-Term Plan, thereby allowing the prevailing world economic situation to be reflected in each future C/5 document. I shall turn now to some of the major programme issues which are before this session of the Conference.
22.20 The International Commission for the Study of Communication Problems pro- duced its report earlier this year, and Member States have been studying it with serious attention. In Australia, we have organized two seminars to consider the report, which is impressive in the scope of its coverage of information and communication issues.
22.21 As one might expect from a committee of sixteen members from a wide range of countries with different social and political systems and cultural traditions, the report cannot be expected to please everyone, and Australia has strong reserva- tions about a number of recommendations and about some passages of the report. Nevertheless, we would like to record our support for its overall thrust towards the democratization of communication, so that all sectors of society may partici- pate in the communication process. We endorse the Commission's recommendation that, for there to be the fullest and freest flow of information, between and within countries, there should be a variety of sources of information, and free access to those sources. We also support those recommendations which propose that, as censorship, or any arbitrary control of information flow, reduces the credibility of the media, it should be abolished, and that there should be no normative action with respect to the question of the responsibility and protection of journalists in the exercise of their profession.
22.22 We recognize that, although the MacBride Report has canvassed all these issues, as well as the various ideological and cultural factors that underlie the different national patterns of - and attitudes to - media ownership and organiza- tion, there may still be active debate on some of them at this General Conference session. However, we believe that the time has come when we should set aside some of these basic differences and, instead, shift our attention to the important problems of communication development on which we are all in substantial agreement.
22.23 On our agenda for this session, Mr President, we have the important recommenda- tions of the Intergovernmental Conference for Co-operation on Activities, Needs and Programmes for Communication Development, together with the Director-General's report and comments on the proposal to establish an Intergovernmental Programme for the Development of Communication, under Unesco auspices. We look forward to the approval of this programme by the General Conference and to its successful estab- lishment. The first task, as we see it, is for the proposed Intergovernmental Council to identify important practical problems which the programme should tackle. The second task is to encourage individual countries, institutions and people, as well as interested intergovernmental and non-governmental bodies, to develop a degree of commitment to the programme which will ensure its success.
22.24 In addressing itself to these tasks and the administrative and co-ordinating structures which will be required, we would encourage the Intergovernmental Council to examine carefully the working methods of some of the successful intergovernmental science programmes which have been able to develop major themes of activity and have obtained this necessary degree of commitment. As far as Australia is con- cerned, Mr President, its government and the organizations involved in the practice of communication stand ready to participate actively in this programme, bilaterally, regionally and internationally.
22.25 Another major event which has occurred since the last session of the Conference was the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Develop- ment (UNCSTD), held in 1979. As a member of the Australian delegation to that Conference, I should like to make some remarks about it and its implications for Unesco. In the first place, Mr President, let me say that Australia strongly supports the notion that each of the United Nations Specialized Agencies should play an active role in the follow-up to UNCSTD. Within the United Nations system, we consider that there is a very considerable degree of capability in the applica- tion of science and technology to development, and we are opposed to the creation of yet another United Nations agency, which we believe would only serve to duplicate many of the existing, ongoing, activities.
22.26 In consequence, we see an important role for Unesco in the follow-up to the Plan of Action adopted at UNCSTD. We are pleased that the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983 contains eight major projects which are designed to give specific attention to areas which received high priority at UNCSTD, and which lie very much within our Organization's area of competence.
22.27 We are conscious, Mr President, that six of these eight programmes are based on aspects of existing Unesco intergovernmental science programmes, and the remain- ing two on aspects of existing regional science networks. While we hope to see, in the next Medium-Term Plan, proposals for UNCSTD-related activity which are still more innovative, we consider that the intergovernmental science programmes and the regional science networks constitute the most effective formulae yet devised by Unesco to facilitate international science co-operation, both intergovernmental and non-governmental, to generate and catalyse bilateral and regional resources, both human and financial, and to strengthen progressively the endogenous capability of developing countries in the science and technology area.
22.28 We are also pleased to note that the exchange of science and technology information is being strengthened, both through UNISIST itself and through the development of pilot projects and regional science and technology information networks. Australia hopes to make a useful contribution in this field, particul- arly in the South-East Asian area. We also hope that the regional science and technology network, which has just been discussed in Bangkok, will lay the ground for an effective and mutually beneficial programme of activities.
22.29 Also in the Asian region, Mr President, we are looking forward to the forthcoming CASTASIA II Conference in 1982 as a vehicle for giving a direct impetus to science and technology in our region. Australia hopes to assist in the prepara- tions for this meeting, as well as in the follow-up. Together with our neighbours, we see considerable scope for the application of science and technology to deve- lopment in the Asia-Oceania region, and we will do what we can to ensure the success of this important Conference.
22.30 In the two areas I have talked about - communication and science and tech- nology - the role of Unesco within the United Nations system should be beyond question. It is of concern to my government that there have been, as the Director- General has pointed out, moves recently at the United Nations General Assembly which challenge, or compete with, Unesco's central role in these matters. We can only echo the Director-General's warnings that measures which upset the established co- ordinating mechanism within the United Nations system will inevitably result in duplication of efforts or even in conflicting activities.
22.31 In conclusion, then, Mr President, I offer my government's pledge of commit- ment to the maintenance of Unesco's unique role in the international community, and the Australian delegation's desire to co-operate with other delegations at this twenty-first session of the General Conference in the important work before us. Thank you, Mr President. \
(24.1) Mr EL HAG YOUSIF (Sudan) (Translation from the Arabic): Mr President of the Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, heads of delegations, distinguished delegates, my greetings to all of you. Mr President, the holding of the twenty-first session of the General Conference of the United Nations Educa- tional, Scientific and Cultural Organization (Unesco) in the capital of this great country, and your unanimous election to your exalted position, underscore afresh the esteem felt, by the international family for the great contribution made by the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to the strengthening of world peace and security, its pioneering role in helping just instances of liberation in all parts of the world, and its quick and generous effort to establish an economic order and international relations that are fairer and more equitable to the developing nations. Those efforts have become crystallized in the Non- Aligned Movement, of which Yugoslavia was and will continue to be one of the staunchest pillars, through its continuing effort to strengthen and generalize harmony in the world, so that it will develop into détente in international relations and a safe road to peaceful coexistence among the different states.
(24.2) Mr President, by the death of that great fighter and President, Marshal Josip Broz Tito, the world has lost one of its most prominent leaders, and the Non-Aligned Movement has lost its pioneer, the man who preserved its principles and prevented it from becoming weak or deviating from its course. Our consolation lies in the fact that the heritage of President Tito - in the form of his founding of national unity, the preservation of his country's inde- pendence, resistance to any attempts at domination or hegemony, and the building of the new state on firm bases of social justice and democratic practice, such as the way of self- guidance - this heritage will live on as a lamp for the peoples of the world, lighting the road ahead, and as a great human experiment for subsequent generations.
(2453) Mr President, as we enter the last two decades of the twentieth century, our world is convulsed with war and struggle, and the future appears dark with the menace of imminent catastrophe. We live in a period of uneasy peace based on a balance of terror between the two superpowers, and of wars whose fires blaze up in the Third World, creating tens of thousands of victims each year and leaving in their wake hundred of thousands of refugees, exiles and homeless people. Entire societies are destroyed; famines kill hundreds of thousands of people in Africa and Asia; human rights are violated daily under cover of empty claims about freedom and democracy; the arms race increases in intensity, and the money spent on it would suffice to feed all the world's hungry and care for all its sick.
855    The dialogue between North and South, which was a glimmer of hope that a better world might be established, has made no progress; on the contrary, it has been the ruin of a number of promising opportunities which have not been seized and of praiseworthy efforts which have come to nothing. The illiteracy figures are steadily growing, as the provision of educa- tional opportunity fails to keep pace with population growth. The world's economic system fluctuates between stagnation and unbalanced growth and suffers from monetary crises and fluctuating commodity prices. All this leads to declining standards of living in the developing countries, deterioration in their trade balances, the thwarting of their national development projects, waves of inflation which make it impossible for them to extend their educational and health services, and unemployment, both visible and hidden, which in turn creates difficult social problems. Future studies warn of a world overcrowded with people, a polluted environment, hundreds of millions of people sunk in abject poverty, a widening gulf between the world's rich and poor, the exhaustion of energy sources, a decline in soil fertility, spreading desertification, and large-scale changes in the world's climate.
(24.4) Mr President, the question of how all of us can strive to ward off these dangers and build a world ruled by peace and harmony, in which every person will be able to lead a life of dignity and security - this represents the greatest challenge facing both the present and the future. Mr President, many conferences have been held and many studies carried out under the auspices of the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies and in the framework of various regional organizations, and the outcome has been the emergence of an accurate picture of the problems in all their diversity, including their national, regional and international dimensions, as well as the way they are organically interrelated. Throughout its illustrious history, and more particularly since the nineteenth session of its General Conference in Nairobi, Unesco has been looking into a uniquely important matter, namely the tackling of these persistent issues which are of such concern to the entire world and represent such a threat to the future of its security, peace and stability, and whose negative effects will be felt both in the present and in the future by Member States. Unesco's approach to these issues has been a comprehensive one, embracing their political, economic and social aspects, and extending to their intellectual and ethical roots. Unesco has followed an unprecedented course in raising these matters in its General Conferences and subjecting them to in-depth study by specialists, thinkers and scientists from a remarkably wide range of cultures and different disciplines. This has been followed by publication of these studies and their widespread distribution in many languages, together with active participation by Unesco in the work of the United Nations system and national and regional organizations. Thanks to this judicious, indefatigable, continuing effort, Unesco has been able to score the impressive achievement of working out an accurate picture of the various aspects of these problems, revealing how their elements are interconnected, stating what is required in order to deal with them, and taking them as the pivot of its activities, the axis of its Medium-Term Plan, and the basis of its definition of programme objectives and an order of priorities. TI should like to take advantage of this opportunity to commend the profound and objective analysis of the world situation which the Director-General presents in document 21 C/4. Truly, as the Director-General says, the challenges which the world is facing are hedged about with acute, harsh social and psychological phenomena, so that unfortunately, narrow, short-term interests come to prevail, wresting priority away from long-range visions of the world as a whole. Mr President, there is no alternative, just as the Director-General says, to the coming of profound and radical changes, and we shall not be satisfied with temporary, fragmentary improvements if we want to put a stop to disputes and explosions.
(24.5) This analysis, Mr President, confirms Unesco's important and effective role, to which I have alluded: it is to awaken the conscience of the world and to provide opportuni- ties for reflection and quiet consideration, ‘Itis the role of a planner at the level of mankind as a whole, not on behalf of some particular segment of mankind, or in favour of the sovereignty of any one culture or civilization, and with no bias towards narrow interests that are bound up withsome specific political geography or history, from which none of us can escape. The questions taken up in document 21 C/4 and the depth of the subjects discussed in the fields of education, the natural sciences, culture and communication, and the role of the social sciences, these are issues which confirm the seriousness of the preparatory work which Unesco is about to undertake. There must be broadly based and beneficial partici- pation, and we are favourable to that. However, Mr President, these sectoral views must be crowned, as I have said, with a collective and integral viewpoint, one in which all sectors will work in a unified and coherent fashion. I am confident that the political leadership of our countries, when they wish, and radical change, when it comes, will enable us all to work together, with God's help, to contribute to the finding of solutions to the problems of this changing world, the ones to which I referred a few moments ago.
(24.6) I observe with a great deal of satisfaction that this session's draft programme has acquired a practical dimension which previous budgets have lacked for a long time: I mean the effort to concentrate activities in order to avoid wasting effort and money. At this point I must utter a warning against confusing concentration and change with cutting out certain activities in favour of other activities. Any activity has its own internal logic and its particular characteristics, however minor or marginal it may appear to some. How- ever, I note that some sectors which have increased in importance as a result of the appearance of new international circumstances, such as aid to refugees and liberation movements, have not grown enough to keep pace with the size of the problems in question and the extent of their scope.
(24.7) My own country, Mr President, the Democratic Republic of the Sudan, stands as an example of this. Despite the fact that we are a developing country and trying to create comprehensive social and economic growth, we are acting as host to over half a million refugees, with all the problems that that situation creates for our citizens in terms of obtaining necessary goods and services. We have tried, and continue to try, to persuade the international community to join with us in bearing the burden of this responsibility. We held a conference for the refugees in Khartoum in June of this year, in which the inter- national community took part, and at that conference many projects were studied; they only    await financing. As I speak to you here today, I should like to express my thanks to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the Economic and Social Council, United Nations Specialized Agencies, and the Director-General and Executive Board of Unesco for the great concern with this problem which they have demonstrated, and for the assistance which they have provided. I should also like to direct an earnest appeal to all the states of the world, assembled here in this hall, to join with Sudan in providing all these refugees with a life of dignity and stability, and helping to make it possible to implement the resolutions adopted by the Khartoum conference.
(24.8) Mr President, I should like to confirm, in this context, the interest taken by my country and by all Third World countries in the Organization's policies and programmes in the field of the social sciences and their application, particularly as they concern issues of development, notably integrated, balanced, self-sustaining development, and also as they concern the link between disarmament, the establishment of peace, and development, for there can be no peace without development and no development without peace. We were very pleased to note the new concentration on the sector of the social sciences and the philosphical bases on which its concepts and programmes rest. Those bases are the preservation of the cultural identity and political independence of every one of the world's states in the face of the manifold changes which development brings about in societies and the new values which arise in consequence, and in the face of an unfair and unbalanced information order which is consolidated by continuing development in the media and media technology, so that the peoples of the developing world are brought under heavy cultural pressure. In the light of these considerations, we call for attention to programmes in the field of the social sciences and their application in the next Medium-Term Plan.
(24.9) Mr President, the Executive Board of this distinguished organization has recommended a budget of $625,374,000 for the forthcoming three-year period, which is about $208 millions a year. Approximately one-third of this amount, Mr President, the share of one out of those three years, will be lost as a result of inflation or the currency's losing its value. Inflation and fluctuations in rates of exchange are two matters which are beyond the Organization's control. Mr President, the contributions which are assessed upon us are a burden which we all bear on a footing of equality, because they are based on the gross national product of each state. We in the developing nations bear a disproportionately large share of the burdens resulting from the current world monetary crisis. However, 1I should like to assure our friends of the developing nations that in contributing to Unesco they are contributing to our development, because the funds go to support Third World projects, even though a portion of the proceeds of this budget will go, as we all know, to pay for the expertise of the industrialized countries, since to date we have not yet found a formula for co-operation in the various areas involving the transfer of this expertise in such a way that obstacles to the development of Third World countries are not created, and they are not crushed beneath a mountain of debt. Mr President, we are pre- pared to approve this budget, and we recommend that others do the same, because it is the other side of the programme of which we have all expressed our approval. You cannot have a programme without also having a budget.
(24.10) May I be permitted to pause at this point to commend the efforts of the Director- General yet again, in ensuring that this amount included provision for necessary expenditure on two projects which are. important to all of us. These are the intergovernmental communica- tions development project and the project for an information network on new and renewable energy sources. These two projects will require some $3 millions. In general, this is a budget of stability, and the Director-General and his colleagues have worked to keep its rate of growth down to a minimum under circumstances of inflation and fluctuating currency rates. My country's delegation calls for approval of the draft programme and budget, and at the same time calls upon the competent commissions to introduce amendments concerning some of its priorities and the growth percentages characterizing certain sectors, in response to persistent conditions in the developing countries. In our view, these amend- ments should focus on (1) adult education, which should be strengthened, (2) studies and solutions in respect of problems pertaining to the situation of teachers, and development of integrated policies for those working in the field of education, (3) strengthening of the role of higher education in society, and (4) strengthening and promotion of exchanges of data with a view to the development of policies in the area of science and technology.
(24.11) Mr President, I urged at the twentieth session and I urge still that Unesco develop a variety of programmes in the field of education, the natural sciences, and the social sciences and their applications, with a view to helping Member States, particularly develop-
1ng states, to work out new educational strategies which will provide accurate and objective definitions of educational objectives, content and curricula that are consistent with the social and cultural characteristics of each state, avoiding the simple adoption of the practices of other states with different intellectual and cultural starting-points and different degrees of economic and social development. We must always strive to maintain the cultural identity of every nation by striking a careful balance between tradition and innovation. I called, Mr President, and I call still for closer co-operation between Unesco, other United Nations organizations and regional organizations to promote national capabilities in the field of the production and distribution of educational materials and equipment.
24512y ome President, Unesco has made the concept of a new world economic order the pivot of all its activities and programmes, and has given it a social dimension and an ethical basis. Nor has Unesco restricted this concept to a restructuring of economic relations, but rather it has broadened it and made it more comprehensive, establishing a link between it and contemporary world problems. I should like to commend the Director-General's report, document 21 C/12, which is a comprehensive document reflecting sustained effort and stimulat- ing thought.
(2488 ME President, the past few years have witnessed malevolent attacks upon Unesco by the media in a part of the world. These attacks have been so full of hatred and narrow- mindedness that they are lacking in objectivity and honesty. Most of the time they are    lacking in the most elementary common decency as well, consisting entirely or largely of abuse of the Director-General, not for any valid reason, but only because he is unwilling to compromise when it is a matter of carrying out the instructions of the General Conference and the Executive Board, and because he wants our Organization to play a leading and pioneering role in the field of ethics in all types of human relations, particularly in the field of information and the media. Indeed, one important media voice, one which occupies a prominent place in today's world, calls openly for the denial of any aid or contribution to Unesco, because it is suspected of working to restrict freedom, freedom of information in particular. Where is there a sign of any such restriction of freedom? Does it consist in the proclamation which we adopted unanimously at the twentieth session and which was designed first and foremost to protect and preserve that freedom and to give it its ethical dimension, not through a legally binding text, but through a moral and ethical commitment? Or does it consist in the report presented by a commission whose ranks included men from various parts of the world and with different cultural backgrounds, working in a purely personal capacity and in complete independence from the Organization? We, Mr President, regard these attacks as contemptible, and we are fully confident that the General Conference will disregard such petty trivialities with its well-known regard for the principles of this Organization, and that it will stand behind those principles and unanimously adopt the resolutions which direct its activities.
(24.14) I say this because this Conference, as many observers have agreed, will be a Conference on Information and Communication, in the sense that that vital subject, organic- ally bound up as it is with the new international economic order, will be the most prominent of the subjects considered at this session. We have before us the recommendations of the intergovernmental conference on communication development. That conference arrived at a formula which it:would have been unable to arrive at if it had not been for the readi- ness of all parties to make concessions in an effort to reach consensus for the benefit of all mankind, although I admit we still hope, more so than at any time in the past, for the establishment of an international communication development fund instead of the obscure financing mechanism adopted by the conference. We have before us the Director General's report on the study conducted by the MacBride Commission. That study is the result of years of deep thought which led the members of the Commission to the conviction that it will be necessary to work out an agreement covering many of the issues involved. With an honesty befitting wise men, for which they are to be commended, they have left the task of preparing such an agreement to us, since they were unable to do the job themselves. I consider that we will do it, with God's help - that we will shoulder our responsibility even as others have shouldered theirs in the past. However, this can be done only if, when we come to examine these documents, we divest oursleves of all considerations of narrow national or regional interests, and set before our eyes the advantage of all the peoples of the earth. Concerning my government's view, which my country's delegation will express in Commission IV, it is that the MacBride Commission performed its duties admirably, and the Director-General's report (document 21 C/85) and the remarks contained therein on the Commission's work is a reliable and responsible document which sets forth the facts of the issue in a clear and impartial manner. Now it is up to us to take all this material and make of it what we will. Regardless of the outcome of the discussions which take place in Commission IV - which need not necessarily result in a definitive resolution at this stage- specialists in the field of information and communication in the Sudan, after patient study of the MacBride Commission's Report, have noted its statement that the international com- munity has begun to realize how wide a gap there is between the developing and the advanced countries in the area of communication. That realization constitutes a healthy phenomenon in itself, and it marks a good beginning of positive practical action toward a restoration of the lost equilibrium, partially at any rate. One encouraging point, perhaps, is the fact that all the members of the Commission supported the final report and succeeded in working out a joint approach to an analysis of the current situation and defining ways and means of guaranteeing a free flow of information and encouraging democracy in information both at the international level and within each individual state. I myself, Mr President, agree with the Director-General in the esteem for the MacBride Commission which he expresses, and I should like to express my government's hope that this report will have all the influence it merits on the next Medium-Term Plan, so that we can begin to take perceptible steps in the direction of a new world information and communication order.
(24.15) Mr President, ever since its fifteenth session in 1968, right though to its twentieth session, the General Conference of Unesco adopted numerous resolutions proclaiming that the changes which Israel was bringing about in the Arab city of Jerusalem were null and void and demanding that Israel immediately rescind the measures it had taken and renounce all policies calculated to change the material character and the population pattern of the occupied territories. In addition, all Member States have been asked to decline to recognize Israel's actions, and to recognize the full rights of the Palestinian people. The Conference has adopted various resolutions inviting the Director-General to exercise full supervision of the operation of educational and cultural institutions in the occupied Arab territories, and to co-operate with the Arab States and the Palestine Liberation Organization in making the necessary means available to enable the inhabitants of the occupied Arab territories to enjoy their rights to education and culture while preserving their national identity. The United Nations General Assembly has adopted many similar resolutions. Israel's response to all this has been consistently to disregard the wishes of the international community. Indeed, its arrogance and contempt for that community have reached such a pitch that it recently adopted a decree making Arab Jerusalem its unified capital. The international community has responded to this unilateral action with outrage and condemnation, as may be seen from the relevant resolutions adopted by the United Nations and the Security Council. The few countries which had had their embassies in Jerusalem hastened to transfer them out of the Holy City, and in so doing those countries affirmed their position on the side of right and justice. The Israeli Military Governor recently issued two orders dated ;
6 July 1980; by these orders, the freedom of the universities in the occupied Arab terri” tories was restricted and they were made subject to the Education Officer in the military government. This act was flagrantly in defiance of all the resolutions adopted by the General Conference, and was an effort to obliterate the national culture of the Palestinian people and deprive them of their right to education.
(24.16) What I have just said, Mr President, makes it abundantly clear that this Conference 16 has resorted to every possible means to make Israel comply with its resolutions and respect the will of the international community. Is this Conference to continue adopting resolu- tions expressing disapproval and condemnation, as it has done hitherto, and then accept the situation? Surely not, Mr President. The international community today is not the same as it has been in the past. Mr President, I applaud the resolutions adopted by the world organization and its Specialized Agencies, and the decision taken by the World Heritage Committee, at its fourth session, to initiate action to place Jerusalem on the World Heritage List. 1] also applaud world opinion's growing awareness of the justice of the Palestinian people's cause and of their efforts, which have reached the point where they prick the conscience of every just person, and of the threat to world peace which will ensue if the Palestinian people are denied their full rights. I call upon this Conference to exercise its responsibilities by taking effective action to restrain Israel until it complies with the Conference's resolutions and submits to the will of the international community.
(24.17) Mr President, the past two years have seen the Organization undertake great and successful efforts in all its fields of competence and intensified activity which has been perceptible to all of us, in all the states of the world. The Organization has assumed a prominent position in the fields of education, science, culture and communication; Member States' participation in the Organization's work has increased, and their ties with it have grown stronger. In addition, the Organization's leadership has worked unremittingly: , I have followed these developments at close range, thanks to my position as a member of the Executive Board. The Organization has taken steps in the direction of decentralization by setting up the necessary structures gradually. Behind this substantial achievement stands Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, the Organization's Director-General, who gives Unesco all his thought, time and effort, adhering scrupulously to the Constitution, General Conference resolutions and Executive Board decisions, and striving tirelessly to create stronger ties between the Organization and the Member States. In this way he has earned, and has enabled Unesco to earn, the confidence and support of the Member States. I therefore salute him on behalf of my country and its President, Jaafar Muhammad Numeiry, and I applaud his great achievement. I should also like to express my admiration and thanks to Mr M'Bow's colleagues, the Organization's senior staff, and all those who work within it for their assiduous, unceasing, selfless labours, and offer my thanks and esteem to the Executive Board, its Chairman, and the Chairmen of its commissions and committees for their ceaseless endeavours and the substantial volume of work which they accomplish.
(24.18) Mr President, it gives me great pleasure to congratulate warmly those Member States which have recently joined our great Organization and welcome their help in bearing our burden of responsibility. In particular, I should like to extend my sincerest congratula- tions to our fellow state Zimbabwe for joining us as a new member of our Organization, in order to stress, once again, that we stand at the side of African liberation movements and will continue to do so until our continent is free from those pockets of hateful racism and colonialism that still remain in Namibia and South Africa.
(24.19) Mr President, the entire world is celebrating the beginning of the fifteenth century of the Hegira of the Prophet Muhammad (God's blessing and peace be upon him), who left his native place in obedience to his Lord's command and in order to secure the triumph of human rights, primarily freedom of belief. In the course of the past fourteen centuries the world has witnessed the flourishing of a mighty civilization characterized by a balance between the spiritual and temporal aspects of man, and by the raising of the banner of tolerance and human brotherhood. I am very pleased to note that our international Organiza- tion, with its various states and the many religious creeds of its members, is participating in the celebration of this major occasion in human history.
(24.20) In conclusion, Mr President, may I say that the issues which have been laid before us, and which embody the challenges confronting the present and the future of our world, are such as to arouse our uneasiness and concern. The degree of international co-operation which has been achieved to date is not equal to the scale of the problems we face. For despite the fact that the dangers looming over the human race as a whole, including both the advanced and the developing societies, are clearly perceived and understood, yet the political will is still lacking, both at the level of international and regional organiza- tions, and at the level of bilateral relations between states, to institute radical changes in our structures. It is beyond the ability of any state or group of states in isolation to institute the desired change. But this Conference, in view of the fact that it includes men of education, science, culture and communication, in view of the superb preparatory work that has gone into it, in view of the in-depth study which the Commissions are devoting to the framework of the Medium-Term Plan, this Conference has an opportunity to formulate adequate policies and to adopt many resolutions in all the Organization's fields of compe- tence that will undoubtedly take us some distance along the road to the defence of mankind, the provision of peace and security for all, the unfurling of the banners of brotherhood and tolerance, and the broadening of the scope of international solidarity and human co- operation in all fields. That will undoubtedly be a major contribution to the building of a better world. Let us all pray that God will guide our steps along the straight path, the path of truth and good and justice. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Sudanese delegation and I qivecthe EloorstomMr PJ. Pronk, Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference for Trade and Development (UNCTAD).
1 Mr PRONK (UNCTAD) : Mr President, on behalf of UNCTAD, I should like to start by congratulating M'Bow on his appointment for a new term as Director-General of Unesco. He has proven to be the right man in the right place, and we in UNCTAD wish him much Success in the forthcoming period.
26.2 Mr President, I think that it is only appropriate for me, representing a sister organization in the United Nations family, to support what the Director-General of Unesco said in his opening speech about the independence of international organiza- tions. We too in UNCTAD feel that international civil servants should serve the international community exclusively, and that Member States should not violate the immunity from legal proceedings enjoyed by international civil servants. We seriously hope that the efforts made by the Director-General of Unesco with regard to the specific case that he mentioned will prove to be successful soon. For we think that the very credibility of the fundamental rules to which states subscribe when they join an international organization is at stake.
26.3 As participants in this first session of a General Conference of Unesco to be held in a new decade, the decade of the eighties, we are inevitably conscious of the setting in which the session is convened. All of us are acutely aware of the crisis threatening the world. While all members of the international community are affected by this crisis, the developing countries are the main sufferers - their development efforts have been thwarted, their economic and social transformation jeopardized.
26.4 In the second half of the seventies this awareness led" to a more or less universal acceptance of the goal of a new international economic order, meant to establish equity among and within nations, and also meant to establish the efficient utilization of the world's scarce resources: natural resources, human resources and also man-made resources like capital and technology. This gave rise to many negotiations on many different issues without, however, too much success. We therefore have to bear in mind that in these negotiations we often tackled only fringe issues, and not the issues which really are at the heart of the present unequal distribution of economic, social, political, technological and cultural power in the world. A new international economic order can only be brought about if the structure of world society itself is changed. There are signs that the agenda of the eighties will include such fundamental issues. The new round of global negotiations will give the first opportunity because it will deal with financial and monetary systems, trade, production, investment and employment in products with a real surplus value, and also with energy. After the new round of global negotiations there will be many more negotiations in the forthcoming decade. Therefore there is a need to mobilize the various parts ofithe United Nations system, and I hope that both UNCTAD and Unesco can play a significant role in this respect.
26.5 Now I should like to touch briefly on some questions in the area octo operation between UNCTAD and Unesco. I will mention three: technology, communication and energy. Where technology is concerned, due to the lateness of the hour, I should just like to mention that both in the field of technology policies and planning, in the field of the follow-up to the UNCSTD Conference in Vienna, in the field of the reverse transfer of technology (the so-called "brain drain" problem), and also with regard to technological information, there is in our view scope for wider co-operation between UNCTAD and Unesco.
26.6 I now turn to energy. We have read with great interest the reports on inter- national information systems relating to new and renewable energy sources. In this area, as in the area of technology, UNCTAD is actively engaged. In 1978 we pre- pared a study on "Energy supplies for developing countries: issues in the transfer and development of technology" (part of this study is devoted to new and renewable sources). An UNCTAD resolution adopted at UNCTAD V in Manila in 1979 requested the Secretary-General of UNCTAD to convene expert meetings to identify problems and issues concerning the transfer, the application and the development of techno- logy in the energy sector. A report on major technology issues in the sector to be discussed by the UNCTAD Committee on the Transfer of Technology will appear in November this year. Undoubtedly UNCTAD has a task to fulfil in the field of energy in general: energy is a commodity and we deal with commodities. Developments in the energy field have important financial consequences for consumer countries, both in the short term - balance of payments consequences - and" inthe" long term = investment requirements for producing more and different sources of energy. IN UNCTAD we shall also have to study and discuss the problems of energy-producing countries, the value of whose assets and surpluses created for the benefit of the world as a whole is diminishing fairly rapidly due to inflation and due to the depreciation of convertible foreign exchange. There is also the problem of energy conservation and a necessary decrease in energy consumption in the industrialized countries as well as a necessary shift to new, safe and non-depletable sources of energy. These are major problems which can only be dealt with by the world community as a whole. UNCTAD, Unesco and other worldwide United Nations agencies should join their forces to take up this challenge and to assist governments in their efforts to cope with these problems.
26.7 Regarding the field of communication, Unesco is the leading agency on the road towards a new world information and communication order. We in UNCTAD are aware of the huge conceptual and political problems in this field, and I should like to express UNCTAD's appreciation of Unesco's work in it so far and our support
860    for its future activities. Both the International Commission for the Study of Communication Problems under the chairmanship of Mr MacBride and the Intergovern- mental Conference for Co-operation on Activities, Needs and Programmes for Communication Development have shown that the discussion has moved away from ideology to policy - policy to deal with concrete aspects of inequality in access to information. I agree with the Director-General of Unesco that the MacBride Commission Report has to be seen not so much as a conclusion as a starting-point. I am not in a position to comment on the report because I myself was a member of the Commission. I only want to say that the value of the Teport 15 that it pre- vides us, our organizations, the world community, with an inventory of the whole range of communication problems in contemporary society, and its value also lies in the fact that it proves that politicians and experts coming from different political backgrounds, from the North and the South, from the East and the West, can find a common denominator in their approach to new problems.
26.8 In our future work on communication we have to emphasize both the opportuni- ties and the dangers inherent in technological advancements in the field of communication. It is evident that the communication field reflects the same dis- parities that characterize the entire international scene. The enormous techno- logical advance in this field could open up new, vast opportunities for developing countries If an unequivocal and positive link is established between communication and development goals. But there are also dangers, such as the danger of being manipulated by means of free international data transmission, or of rising unemployment due to a "seller's market" approach to the introduction of new technologies in this field. Moreover, we must be aware of the fact that the control of these new technologies is at present mainly concentrated in a few developed countries, and in a few transnational corporations within them. Such a situation should be changed.
26.9 Indeed, we in UNCTAD feel that there is a close conceptual and political link between the new international economic order .(in the establishment of which there is a task for UNCTAD) and the new world information and communication order. Therefore, UNCTAD fully supports Unesco's policies imthis field, and offers to co-operate in the proposed Intergovernmental Programme for the Development of Communication.
26.10 Mr President, in my brief statement I have touched upon three major fields of common interest to Unesco and UNCTAD: technology in general, energy and communication development. There is, in my view, indeed great scope for co- operation which will enable our two Organizations to take the necessary action towards a more just, equitable, participatory and sustainable international society. Thank you.
27. The PRESIDENT: I thank the Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference for Trade and Development and I give the floor to Mr Mohieddine Saber, Director- General of the Arab Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization (ALECSO). TA)(مولعلاوةفاقثلاوةييرتللةيبرعلاةمظنملا)_رباصديسلا‏ ‏SSN*ماعلاريدملانيسلا7ىذيفنتلاسلجملاسيئرديسلا‏patسيئرديسلا L$,ةيحتلامكييحأ.اهؤاضعأودوفولا‏dass LT PET٠‏J Lal Stsسيكرلاةدايساب.‏CS‏ petنا..ةليلجلاةساسملاهذه «dialمولعلاوةفاقثلاوةيبرحللاةيبرعلا‏ ةمظنملا‏alg (uS If)‏ [zageىفةقحتسملاةقثلاىلع Lat, pil]نيرشعلاوةيداحلاةترودىفوكشنويللماعلا‏+RS‏ ىلعانوع“نانوكتس‏ENSRCESEةروطخبمستتةرود
(28.1) Mr SABER (Arab Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization) (Translationfrom the Arabic): Mr President of the Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, I greet you with all respect. On this    auspicious occasion, Mr President, may I congratulate you, on behalf of the Arab Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization (ALECSO) and on my own behalf, for the well-deserved confidence which led the delegates to elect you President of the twenty-first session of the Unesco General Conference. This session is marked by the gravity of the issues which it has to consider, and your varied experience and unique ability will help the Conference to carry out its work successfully.
(28.2) I should also like, Mr President, to join those who have spoken before me in this international forum and those who will speak after me in thanking the Government and people of the Federal Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia for their outstanding preparatory work in providing the services which have enabled the Conference to carry on its work in this world- renowned hall in comfort and security. And may I also, Mr President, remind the millions of people in the world who believe in freedom, justice, the dignity of man and the rightito life, of the memory of the late President, Marshal Tito, who as a fighter, a thinker and a man was and will always be one of the sources of pride of this age.
(28.3) On this occasion it is also my very pleasant duty to congratulate my friend and brother, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, Director-General of Unesco, for the unanimous confidence which the world has once again expressed in his leadership, courage, probity, dedication, good faith, responsibility, wisdom, tireless energy, and assiduity. These are qualities which are ordinarily found only in men who have a mission. I should also like to offer my congratulations to that distinguished lady, Mrs M'Bow, who is also a fighter, delicate as she looks, and who has continued to work with silent courage and faith by her husband's side ever since the beginning of their life together. And in congratulating Mr M'Bow for the richly merited worldwide esteem which he enjoys as a result of the heavy responsibility which he has borne and still bears, I am congratulating the Organization as well, and the governments of the Member States, for making the excellent choice they have made. I should also like to add that in making this choice they have taken responsibility upon themselves, for selection is not a matter of putting one person to the test, it is a matter of associating oneself with that person, and it follows that those who elect a person are responsible for the success of that person's work. This is a fundamental matter, and the members of this Organization have a duty in this respect which they have never renounced. We look hopefully towards the coming seven years, confident that they will constitute a marked advance towards the goals of this international organization, which represents mankind's conscience and mankind's hopes for peace, progress and justice.
(28.4) I should also like to express my thanks - again in the company of my colleagues - to the distinguished Executive Board, including its Chairman, members and Secretariat, for their unremitting work and serious follow-up efforts, and for their fruitful co-operation with the Director-General, who along with his colleagues deserves hearty congratulation and esteem for the excellent preparatory work that ’has gone into this Conference and the admirable documents which have been placed at its disposal, notably the draft programme and budget.
(28.5) Mr President, a new world has arisen out of the progress of science and technology, a world which tends towards homogeneity in the goals of life, the means used to attain those goals, and the social and political relations by which life is organized. Among the pheno- mena of this world were the establishment of the United Nations Organization in this compre- hensive form just after the Second WorId War and the growth of the Specialized Agencies which sprang up day by day as the need arose. This was an expression of the shared responsi- bility and common future of mankind, the problems of contemporary life being shared out with more justice, unfortunately, than the fruits of progress. Subsequently, permanent organiza- tions of one kind and another arose, geographical organizations, cultural organizations and so on. All these new entities constituted an expression of the need to co-operate, and the need for co-operation to become one of the fundamental realities of this interrelated and interdependent world. Now situations like this, with organizations and institutions working at different levels but in similar sectors of activity, implied a need for co-ordination. This was a functional and organic necessity in order to achieve success in carrying out the work and in order to save time, energy and money and to avoid duplication of effort and the danger of working at cross purposes. In brief, the point was to ensure that the similarity which arose as a result of the fact that different organizations were doing related types of work should serve as a force for integration through co-operation, rather than as a force for conflict through competition. This is a process which calls for a high degree of aware- ness, some wisdom, and above all the ability to be innovative; it is somewhat more than a matter of administrative organization, and much less than a matter of conceptual organization. Our experience in this area with Unesco in the course of five years has enabled us to establish many traditions, and much of the credit for this must go to Mr. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow and his colleagues, whose understanding and co-operation have made it possible to achieve an excellent level of co-operation in the work of Unesco and ALECSO programmes in the Arab world. The shared understanding on substantive matters, the common action which has been a feature of the work of the two organizations from an early stage, and the exchanges of views between Mr M'Bow and myself, all this has been immensely useful in furthering that co-operation which we hope will increase in scope and find expression in new forms in the years ahead, both in the area of practice and in the area of organization. It gives me great pleasure, on this occasion, to recall the agreement which ALECSO signed with Unesco this year, after it had been approved by the Executive Board of each organiza- tion. This in itself is evidence of the positive relationship which is developing between the two organizations. The current agreement replaces the former one, which had ceased to be adequate to cover the new fields of joint activity and the developing programmes of our two organizations in the Arab world.
(28.6) Mr President, the speakers who have preceded me, all of whom have been men of sound judgement, have reviewed the matter of the draft programme and budget for the next three years, 1981 to 1983, and the Medium-Term Plan covering the years 1984-1989, and other speakers are going to do the same after me. I should therefore like to touch only on some of the more important issues which have been submitted to us and the way they are handled, referring briefly to different questions in a variety of fields.
864    irmed and co unquest information +be basic rengthenir I с the forms Behaviour squarely Lt which does place aggre part €
29.1 The PRESIDENT: I thank the Director-General of the Arab Educational, Cultural and ScientificOrganization, who was our last speaker for today.