Twelfth plenary meeting
29 September 1980 at 2.15 p.m. President: Mr PORTER (Sierra Leone) Douzième séance plénière
29 septembre 1980 a 14 h.15 Président : M. PORTER (Sierra Leone) Duodécima sesiôn plenaria
86١iLلوديأ/ربمتبس4 alرهظلادعب‏ o‏ (نويلارييس)ريتربديسلا:سيئرلا RASصده-‏ A 29 H F426 198049‏154 EM: RELE ( ADA A)‏     GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued) /DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite) /DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuación) / OECYXIEHME BONPOCOB OBIEX NMONUTUKU /продолж. / ‎(عبات)ةماعلاةسايسلاةشقانم (SBAT (B) rl The PRESIDENT : The meeting is called to order.
1.2 To continue the general policy debate, I now call upon H.E. the Hon. M.L. Wellington, Minister of Education of New Zealand, and head of the New Zealand delegation.
2.1 Mr WELLINGTON (New Zealand): Mr President and fellow delegates, may I join with other delegations and - through you, Mr President - extend New Zealand's warm congratulations to Mr Margan on his election. May I also echo the comments made this morning applauding the re-election of the Director-General.
2.2 A founding member and the second country to sign the Instrument of Accession, New Zealand has a long-standing and deep commitment to Unesco, and that sense of commitment has grown with the passage of time.
2.3 We are delighted that the twenty-first session of the General Conference is being held in Belgrade. New Zealand is a miniature melting-pot of peoples - Maori and European, Asian and Polynesian - and our community has been enriched by the coming together of these different peoples. Among them are immigrants from Dalma- tia, who have become respected citizens of our country. Indeed, this year the first member of parliament of Yugoslav descent was elected to our House of Rep- resentatives. New Zealand salutes, too, the work and memory of the founder of Yugoslavia - the late Marshal Josip Broz Tito.
2.4 Mr President, we welcome the accession of new Member States and wish particu- larly to congratulate the Kingdom of Tonga on its admission to the Organization. Because of our close ties with the nations of the South Pacific, we hope that others will follow Tonga's example.
2.5 Mr President, we stand in the doorway of a new decade. For reasons which affect us all, this is a period of unprecedented soul-searching and questioning. Here at the twenty-first session, our attention is focused on the role of the Organization.
2.6 During its 34 years of existence, Unesco has accumulated a wealth of experi- ence on which it can draw to give help and guidance to its Member States in their own efforts to move forward.
2.7 The draft programme and budget before us represents the culmination of our collective contributions to the solution of major world problems, as outlined in the present Medium-Term Plan.
2.8 Mr President, it is notPmyl intention &o pass judgement on whether our past efforts have been successful or relevant to the solution of those problems: this is an exercise in which we shall all be involved over the coming months as we devel- op our detailed responses to the Director-General's preliminary report on the Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989. Let me say immediately, however, that we strong- ly support the view that Unesco should concern itself primarily with major pro- grammes of worldwide concern, in the execution of which the principal effort must come from the Member States themselves.
2.9 All issues affecting the Organization must be considered with particular reference to the availability of human and economic resources, and New Zealand shares the Director-General's contention that Unesco does not have the wealth of resources to contribute significantly to the quantitative development of its Mem- ber States. Because these resources are limited, choices must be made, and decisions - often difficult decisions - taken with regard to priorities.
2.10 Mr President, at a time of economic uncertainty, we must distinguish between that which is essential and that which is desirable, and we must focus more clear- ly on first principles. This is no more and no less than what each Member State is having to do in the national context, and New Zealand is no exception. Like most Member States, we are at a turning-point. Many of our major functions and enterprises are undergoing redevelopment - and there is a major reshaping of our endeavours at all levels.
2.11 This state of affairs has been brought about by the shrinking of our tradi- tional markets (a condition not helped by the policies of agricultural protection- ism practised by some developed industrial countries) and by a massive increase          in our import payments due to the second oil crisis. Caught between these two jaws of the economic nutcracker, we are being compelled to adopt more tightly re- fined budgetary techniques, while all of us who serve the major state enterprises such as education have to accept that we cannot neglect our role in the restruc- turing process. Indeed, that process is not merely one for the economist, but is very much the responsibility of leaders in the fields of education, science, cul- ture and communication.
2.12 Because of the slow rate of economic growth, the need for efficient and effec- tive personnel and resource management is imperative, and this is why New Zealand has sponsored item 61 on our present agenda, entitled "Review of budgeting tech- niques". The Executive Board should fully discharge its constitutional respons- ibility for examining the most effective ways of financing Unesco's budget, and assisting the Director-General to develop techniques which will ensure the cost- efficient implementation of the Organization's programme.
2.13 We also support the decentralization of Unesco's programme, including the strengthening of regional activities in which groups of Member States with an im- mediate commonality of interest can share experience, techniques, knowledge and expertise.
2.14 The Seventh Asian-Pacific Regional Conference of National Commissions held in Wellington last July meant much to the Member States because there could be and was a sharper focus and concentration upon the particular needs of the region. I believe that real progress was made. The establishment of the Regional Advisory Committee on Educational Co-operation, which held its first meeting in April of this year, the success of the Asian programme of educational innovation for the development of co-operative networks in the basic sciences and the vitality of the Regional Offices in the management of Unesco's activities within the region, all underline our view that increasing decentralization is a road Unesco must travel in the future.
2.15 Moreover, by adopting this approach, excessive duplication can be avoided, and we support the Director-General's efforts in this area. His presence enhanced the Asian-Pacific Regional Conference, and New Zealand is determined to support and back this strategy. The policy of decentralization has even wider implications, and this can be summed up in the view we expressed at the first session of the General Conference - one to which we even more strongly subscribe today given our financial and economic difficulties. It was then said and I quote: "The whole world is admittedly our province, but not all of the problems of the world are Unesco's problems ... As each problem comes before us we should ask ourselves, not only: 'Is this good?' but also two other questions: firstly, 'Is it a project that some other national body or bodies could undertake?'; and secondly, "Would it interfere with the small solid core of tasks which no one else can do and which are essential if Unesco is to justify its existence to the world?'".
2.16 That is probably more relevant in 1980 than at any other time in Unesco's
34 years of existence. Unesco's role should stop at the point where specialization begins, since other institutions and agencies, at both the regional and national levels, can take over from there, and so, by a more efficient linking and co- ordination of activities and programmes at regional and national levels, building on the rock of common interest, we shall not only achieve more, we shall do so more quickly and at less cost. In addition, we shall counteract the tendency to con- centrate excessive responsibility at the centre with its attendant bureaucracy. The human and financial resources tied up there are needed in the field. There is no place for grandiose systems and superstructures when, for example, in the towns and villages, in the streets and suburbs, there are empty classrooms because there are no trained teachers or no schools at all.
2.17 It is the field force that must be built up - not the servicing sector at the centre. This means that we should concentrate on strengthening the infrastructures of Member States, building up their delivery systems and improving their capability to provide basic educational, scientific and cultural services.
2.18 New Zealand therefore has serious reservations about the proposal to enlarge the membership of the Executive Board. Whilst wanting to see the Board as rep- resentative as possible of the growing number of Member States, we question whether an increase in its membership is not too high a price to pay. No hasty decisions should be taken at this Conference. A careful study of the matter should be made before a decision is taken on it at a future session.
2.19 And all this, Mr President, means concentration on a smaller range of activi- ties. For when the economic base contracts there is no place for adding more and more activities. If we do that, we only jeopardize the basic things. We must strive for qualitative - not quantitative - improvements. Qualitative improvements    such as better programmes to combat illiteracy; better vocational and technical programmes to create job skills for our young people in an age of employment un- certainty - and in that connection, it is interesting to see new emphasis within the draft programme for our young people; the refinement of curricula in the light of technological change; initiatives to develop resource-based activities, such as smaller energy schemes in rural areas at local levels; the stimulation of indigen- ous cultures (earlier this year the Director-General's presence provided much en- couragement to the South Pacific Arts Festival in Port Moresby); and the encourage- ment of a freer flow of communication, for, Mr President, when the world is seeking solutions to global problems, there is no place for intellectual, academic or technological isolationism.
2.20 In pressing for the limiting and concentration of Unesco's future programmes, New Zealand does not want to be misunderstood. We are not advocating zero growth, nor are we in any way suggesting that Unesco's contribution to international development in the fields of education, science, culture and communication has beeniiless than significant. "But itUis our belief that, to do its best, Unesco must concentrate all its energies on the solid core of tasks that belong to it alone, and that the world expects it to deal with.
2.21 We acknowledge that a greater degree of concentration has been achieved in document 21 C/5. But we also note the Director-General's comment in his Introduc- tion to the document that the full impact of this concentration will not be felt until the second Medium-Term Plan is prepared. Nevertheless, the introduction of coherent activities, and the regrouping of objectives has gone some distance.
2.22 The substantial reduction in programme activities - a reduction in the pres sent draft programme from 715 to 512 - and the fact that the average resource allocation per programme action has increased from $74,900 to $175,650 is perhaps the most tangible form of concentration and gives expression to the proper emphasis on qualitative, instead of quantitative improvements. We must not dissipate our efforts over too wide a field, and this is especially necessary in view of the pressing needs of developing nations. These need continued attention without los- ing sight of Unesco's other tasks.
2.23 Mr President, the state of the economies of developing nations and the well- being of their people are to an increasing extent keys to the health of global economies and the global community. This is something we often express, but it is also something we too seldom act upon.
2.24 New Zealand, which is classified as "developed", but which like many devel- oping countries makes its living from the sale of a narrow range of primary pro- ducts, feels strongly about this and, as I have said, about the agricultural pro- tectionism practised by some industrialized nations - policies, Mr President, which deny the developed world the economic tools to build strong education, scientific and cultural delivery systems.
2.25 The developed countries must accept that without growth in the developing world, their own future progress will be impaired. Just as there is no place for intellectual isolationism, so there is none for economic insularity.
2.26 Mr President, the efficacy of Unesco's programme depends in the last resort on the people who implement it. The Organization must ensure that its staff are of the highest calibre. They must be ensured not only the status but the protec- tion needed to enable them to perform their work effectively and impartially. We therefore view with distaste the imprisonment of Dr Percy Stultz, a senior member of the Secretariat, in defiance of international law. New Zealand totally supports the efforts being made by the Director-General to resolve this matter.
2.27 Mr President, Unesco's resources are limited. It must act as an "animateur" or catalyst, concentrating on those problems which are too vast for any one Member State to solve - are problems confronting mankind as a whole. By so acting, and by working together - the developed and the developing countries - in concert, we shall provide a fairer deal for all our people, and especially for our young people which is our first goal. By opening the doors of communication, we shall also strengthen the cultural and scientific links which do so much to break down national barriers. To this end, Unesco's role has already been a significant one, and so, Mr President and delegates, it can continue to be. Thank you, Mr President.
3. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the New Zealand delegation and I now give the floor te H.E. the Hon. Stephen Tago, M.P., Minister for Science and Culture of Papua New Guinea and head of the delegation of Papua New Guinea.
4.1 Mr TAGO (Papua New Guinea): Mr President, your excellencies, honourable delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Papua New Guinea delegation, may I join in extending congratula- tions, best wishes, and thanks to all those who have been elected to positions of trust and responsibility at this Conference.
4.2 May I, Mr President, also express our appreciation of the hospitality of the people of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and convey through you, Sir, our sorrow at the death of the great leader of this country, President Josip Broz Tito. Our country of Papua New Guinea respected his statesmanship and we flew our national flags at half-mast on his passing.
4.3 Mr President, may I also take this opportunity on behalf of our nation and of our delegation of commending not merely Unesco, but also the United Nations Organization and its founding fathers. Sir, when the very existence of the world seems to be at stake and when darkness and its doom seem to surround us, nature provides leaders who show the nations the right path to human destiny. This is what has been happening, both nationally and internationally, since the United Nations came into being. Mr President, on the recommendation of the Executive Board, the General Conference in its collective leadership and in its wisdom has unanimously re-elected Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow as our Director-General. To us in Papua New Guinea, Mr M'Bow is a man in whom nations will be blessed; moreover, all those who enter into individual contact with him will go away inspired, as differ- ent persons. He is - as one of the speakers this morning put it - "almost a super- natural man". We congratualte him, confident that he will humbly execute the heavy responsibility to which he has been called.
4.4 Mr President, Papua New Guinea is one of the thousands of islands in the South Pacific which are both ancient and young. Our cultures are strongly rooted in the traditions and wisdom of our ancestors, yet we are a nation of only five years! independence from colonial administration. We have three and a half million people in 1,500 tribes, speaking altogether 700 languages, which is one-fifth of the world total.
4.5 The integration of Papua New Guinea with the modern world is therefore a challenge, and we share with Unesco the will to achieve for our people, and indeed for all people, a better and happier world. Our Constitution makes promises to our people, promises which echo the goals and programmes of Unesco. We clearly support Unesco policies, and we will co-operate in the implementation of its programmes.
4.6 Mr President, the truth of our convictions remains to be proven in practice. Efforts to establish a new international economic order must be realized immediate- ly, in order to establish harmonious co-operation between the developed and the developing countries. The steps taken by this Organization to bring about econ- omic justice have our total support. The developed countries must, in a Spirit of international co-operation, respond generously to the needs of the developing countries in the training of personnel, in the provision of technological assist- ance, in according access to markets, and so on. The educational needs of each Member State are essential and their satisfaction constitutes an integral part of national development.
4.7 We are gratified that the educational priorities of Unesco are to a great extent in line with what we ourselves hope to achieve. Teacher education is a high priority. The importance of training planners and administrators cannot be overemphasized. The teaching of language, mathematics and science is given a worthy place in Papua New Guinea, as is the improvement of the quality of education.
4.8 Total educational needs for different types of education can only be met gra- dually, but we want to bring our most pressing need to the attention of the Confer- ence: the need for adult education. I call on this Organization to continue to contribute towards adult literacy. My delegation wishes to thank this Organization for its support for our educational requirements.
4.9 It would be irresponsible to overlook the important issue of the status of women. We fully support Unesco's call for the equal status of women and men in the development of a nation. This must be established from the local levels right up to the international level. It is all very well for us to talk about women's sta- tus and rights, about equality or equal participation by women, but if we do no more than talk about it, we, the men, will continue to dominate the world, and even domi- nate forums such as this. Papua New Guinea recognizes the importance ofsthisstopic, particularly in the socio-economic spheres. Before we joined this Organization, one of the five Directive Principles of our Constitution ahead was "equal oppor- tunity for all citizens". We are therefore pleased that Unesco proposes a substan- tial increase in the budget for women. We strongly believe that men and women should have an equal place in modern society.
4.10 In the field of communication, we support any moves by Unesco to establish an international communication organ. The advancement of technology which improves communication methods is acceptable, but this is particularly so in developing countries. Complex systems can cause too much confusion, when upgrading tradi- tional forms of communication is likely to be more effective. For the better as- similation of information and to achieve maximum results, we feel it is important to explore these avenues.
4.11 Mr President, the emphasis given in the draft budget to science and technol- ogy has our full support. Papua New Guinea needs a science policy, and we need to understand both the methods and the results of the transfer of technology. We shall look to Unesco for assistance. We acknowledge and support the call made on Friday by Malaysia for honesty on the part of some of our larger Member States. When promises are made, let us see them kept: give us access to technological knowledge so that we can be equals.
4.12 Mr President, the culture of any country is very important because it makes us what we are. My delegation wishes to remind the General Conference of resolu- tion 12.1 of its twentieth session, calling for the return of cultural property to the countries of origin. We have been the victims of foreign cultural invasion. We totally support this move and wish to call further on Member States to co= operate in the implementation of this resolution. Since the adoption of resolu- tion 12.1, some of us less developed countries have faced negative attitudes on the part of some of the richer nations. We further call for a positive and mean- ingful response from those states that have the custody of other nations' cultural property. We in Papua New Guinea will gladly return any cultural property in our custody that can be shown to belong to other countries. We at least will be honest and committed in our support for and implementation of Unesco policies.
4.13 Mr President, here we should like humbly to inform our brothers and sisters in Unesco's Member States that are concerned about the Holy Land, which includes the land where Abraham was called and where cur religion, whether Muslim or Christian, spread. As far as we in the Pacific, the South Pacific and Papua New Guinea in par- ticular; are.concerned, this land is still the Holy Land - the heritage of us all. We therefore call upon our brothers and sisters who are concerned about this to ensure that this common heritage remains free from conflict and accessible to us alle
4.14 Mr President, we believe that we in the Pacific have something to offer Unesco. We are the most peaceful part of this ever dwindling planet. We trust that the increasing participation by the South Pacific countries in Unesco's affairs will bring a sharing of their peace with Unesco. Only the interference of outsiders can disturb our way of life. And that is why Papua New Guinea res- ponded to the request of the government and people of Vanuatu to assist in main- taining the integrity of that new Pacific state against outsiders. In this spirit of peaceful Melanesian, Polynesian and Micronesian brother- anda sisterhood, we wel- come the admission to Unesco last week of our sisters and brothers of the Kingdom ofiTonga.
4.15 We look forward to further Unesco involvement in the South Pacific and, even more, we look forward to more South Pacific involvement in Unesco. Thank you, Mr President.
5. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the delegation of Papua New Guinea, and I now give the floor to Mr Baboorunjitsing Goordyal, Principal Education Officer of Mauritius, Secretary-General of the Mauritian National Commission for Unesco and alternate head of the Mauritian delegation.
6.1 Mr GOORDYAL (Mauritius): Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, dis- tinguished delegations, ladies and gentlement, allow me to follow in the wake of previous speakers in extending through you, Mr President, heartiest congratulations to Mr Margan on his election. We are confident that he will be able to discharge his heavy responsibilities during the coming triennium which indeed will be a crucial period for the future of our Organization. We are also confident that he will have the undivided support of the Executive Board and the Director-General, who will provide the necessary continuity, and help all of us to enable Unesco to fulfil its mission in its fields of competence.
6.2 It would also not be untoward, Mr President, to ask you to convey to the Government and people of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia our warmest thanks for their spontaneous kindness, affection, hospitality and understanding.
6.3 Mr President, the Mauritian delegation also wishes to welcome the new members, especially Zimbabwe and the Kingdom of Tonga, into the Unesco family. We are con- fident that their presence in our midst will add new dimensions to the activities of Our, Organization.
6.4 Mr President, may I begin my statement by commending the Director-General and his staff, who have discharged their responsibilities with great candour and skill. The Director-General deserves warm appreciation for his constant efforts to contain the effects of depreciation and other currency fluctuations; in spite of the vagaries of the international economic and social climate, he has managed to pre- sent realistic budget proposals which have already received the assent of the Executive Board.
6.5 The Mauritian delegation notes, however, with deep concern that the action- oriented approach so much desired by Member States cannot be translated into prac- tice except where solidarity dictates that those who can, should not grudge their financial, intellectual and moral. support in: giving more concrete effect to. our deliberations. Indeed, as the Director-General himself has stated, Belgrade should not be yet another lost opportunity; this occasion should provide us with the ways and means of transcending empty and purposeless rhetoric and effectively implement- ing Unesco's programme, both for the developed and the developing world.
6.6 The Mauritian delegation notes on the other hand, with great satisfaction, that during the past four years Member States have indeed concentrated their atten- tion not only on global problems but also on the effective implementation of all Unesco's programmes. This trend has also permeated the action of all the bodies associated with Unesco.
6.7 Mr President, if I may be allowed to refer to issues of specific concern to my country, may I thank Unesco for promptly coming to our help after a series of cyclones and other disasters struck Mauritius, and to commend the Organization for having provided assistance in the running of a number of seminars, conferences and round tables for the exchange of experience in the fields of education, science; culture and communication.
6.8 Mauritius still manages to run its Associated Schools and its Unesco Clubs, of which there are nearly 100 in our small country, and endeavours, in these as in all its other activities of concern to Unesco, to evaluate failures as well as succes- ses in a spirit of realism and pragmatism.
6.9 We are further gratified to note that Unesco will continue to provide valu- able assistance in the development of intercultural relations in the Indian Ocean area, which - may I suggest - deserves to be better known for its art, for its culture and for its rich intercultural history than as a part of the world where peace is threatened. May I also, in passing, suggest that the programme of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) for this area should be strengthened.
6.10 Mr President, the delegation of Mauritius looks forward to collaborating fur- ther with countries both within and outside the region, through the School of Mauritian, African and Asian Studies, which has now started its activities. We are still proud to call ourselves a microcosm of various cultures and civilizations, where a unique experiment of living in a plural society is being conducted. The fabric of plural societies is - of course - delicate, but we are confident that peace and harmony are assets too valuable to be destroyed by selfish fractional interest.
6.11 Mr President, distinguished delegates, Unesco has had its share of the ad- verse economic circumstances besetting the world. The budget proposals before us, though realistic, do not always answer the needs of developing countries, but my delegation nevertheless welcomes the Director-General's efforts to exercise all the necessary caution and prudence in his constant review of all the Organization's activities, and in his quest for ways and means of absorbing within the limits of the proposed budget the estimated costs of the new Intergovernmental Programme for the Development of Communication and International Information System on New and Renewable Energy Sources. If these new projects provide the developing countries with much-needed catalytic and infrastructural motivation, the effects for the world as a whole will be tremendous, and will enable us to transcend the purely commercial and narrow barriers built up by vested interests.
6.12 The programme and budget presented in document 21 C/5 has benefited from the advice and consideration of many parties. The Mauritian delegation believes that what is never lacking in the international community is, precisely, advice and Suggestions. The greatest challenge, however, remains financial. It is also true that quality of the work performed and the conclusions of an honest appraisal of all the activities of Unesco need be taken into account. In a word, even the best
12     programmes on paper must be translated into practice and implemented, and their impact must be evaluated. We believe therefore that our main task should be to achieve consensus on effective ways and means of implementing the programme.
6.13 More specifically, it is the view of the Mauritian delegation that apart from exchanging experience, the General Conference, which is an assembly represen- tative of the world of education, science, culture and communication, should con- sider practical ways and means of drawing the greatest benefit from existing pro- grammes and activities. Beyond the so-called "political" and "major" issues lie the more significant ones of planning, programming, implementation and evaluation. These are what we should be concerned with, and not the building of bureaucratic structures or the ceaseless call for still more "studies".
6.14 “Mr President, it is high time, especially at this juncture, that we all realized and re-echoed the Director-General's fervent wish that we should aim towards world co-ordination and solidarity. The Mauritian delegation feels that now that we have renewed our trust and confidence in the Director-General, we should also take into active consideration - and share - his perception of our Organization. Let us, as he has said, make our debate "escape the labyrinths of rhetoric and” the ‘abstractions of’ theory". ‘Let us look with realism’‘at "the adoption of practical decisions".
6.15 My delegation feels that the debate on decentralization and evaluation should also take into consideration the proper definition of the functions of the Regional Offices and of the role that they can play in the lengthy, but necessary process of evaluating all Unesco's activities.
6.16 Mr President, distinguished delegates, the Mauritian delegation would also like to point out that if the credibility of Unesco's image is to be maintained, and if its actions are to be sustained, its programmes must have a philosophical foundation, and must be based on living experience, grass-roots approaches and the perception of its image from different angles. At the same time, both its reflective and its operational action should be constantly accompanied by endea- vours to ensure that recommendations and resolutions which are sometimes couched in ritualistic terms are transformed into realities. Whether the aim is evalua- tion or concentration, diversification or decentralization, its techniques should be kept under incessant review.
6.17 Mr President, Unesco is not only in Paris, but also all over the world, in the hearts and minds of men, women and children everywhere. Decentralization should eventually also mean the flow of people, ideas and action from Headquarters to Regional Offices and vice versa. There is much to be learnt in the field, in on- the-spot action, and the accumulation of real-life experience will enhance the qua- lity and dedication of the personnel which Unesco needs.
6.18 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the preparation of the second Medium-Term Plan should not only provide Unesco and its Member States, as well as other organ- izations, including non-governmental organizations, with the opportunity to review methods of consultation and to examine our motivation; it should also constitute a golden opportunity to harmonize global with regional and national needs. This exercise should revolutionze and bring new energy to techniques of concertation. In this connection, and indeed more generally, the role of National Commissions should be further explored, because we have in them an instrument which is well known yet underestimated, and a source of a great many recommendations which need to be reviewed and restated in more functional and operational terms.
6.19 The quality of Unesco's action should be gauged in terms of its impact for youth, for the handicapped and for the disadvantaged elements of all our societies.
6.20 Programme support activities such as copyright, statistics and book develop- ment should also find their rightful place in the new Medium-Term Plan, since they all have a bearing on all the sectors of Unesco's programmes.
6.21 Mr President, in a world where, in times of crisis and often temporary ad- verse economic and social circumstances, many affluent and rich interests tend to become more selfish and self-centred, may I call upon Unesco to elicit the soli- darity of disinterested multilateral action and to foster a genuine spirit of interdependence and collaboration in all its fields of competence. For when it does so, and its efforts are crowned with success, we shall have transcended the plethora of words, and entered a domain where substance is more meaningful than intent. Thank you, Mr President.
7 & "Phe PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the delegation of Mauritius, and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Mohamed Fredj Chedly, Minister of Education of Tunisia and Chairman of the Unesco-ALECSO Tunisian National Commission, head of the Tunisian delegation.
(8.1) Mr CHEDLY (Tunisia) (Translation from the Arabic): Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure to express, at the beginning of my remarks, on my own behalf and on behalf of the Tunisian delegation accompanying me, my warmest congratulations on the occasion of the election of Dr Ivo Margan as President of the General Conference, which is holding its twenty-first session in his country, our host country. Similarly, it is a pleasure for me to extend my thanks to the Yugoslav authorities for the splendid reception which we have received ever since our arrival in this beautiful capital. There is no doubt that in view of Dr Margan's outstanding qualifications and exceptional ability, and in view of the sound preparations made by the Yugoslav Government, and the skilled advance work done by the Unesco Secretariat, the success of the work of this Conference is assured.
(8.2) I should also like to offer my congratulations, on behalf of the Tunisian delegation, to Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow for his re-election as Director-General of Unesco.
(8.3) We are gathered here to consider the Organization's draft programme of work for the coming three-year period, and to discuss the fundamental choices which will be the har- bingers of its activities and initiatives. I cannot refrain, Mr President, from extend- ing my sincerest expressions of esteem and heartfelt thanks to the leaders and workers in the various units of the Organization for the effort, perseverance and care which they have devoted to making Unesco's activities successful during the past biennium, and to prepar- ing the draft programme of its future work. If I may, I should like to express particular thanks to the Chairman of the Executive Board of the Organization, the members of the Board, and the Director-General and his colleagues of the Secretariat. In this connection,
629   I must express my admiration for the enormous amount of preparatory work which was done in advance of this Conference, especially with regard to the preparation of the document which sets forth the draft programme and budget, accompanied by the important Introduction writ- ten by the Director-General. In that Introduction, Mr M'Bow devotes particular concern to a discussion of the fundamental choices which the draft programme and budget takes up, and to an explanation of the methodology followed in preparing it. He also clearly sets forth the main lines of activity and the recommended work, and the requirements connected with that activity and work.
(8.4) After this brief introduction, which perhaps does not do justice to those who work for the Organization, in terms of the thanks and praise which they deserve, I shall ask your permission, Mr President, to take up the matter of the draft programme and budget which has been submitted to us, in order to make a few general remarks which are based on a study of it. Perhaps through these observations we shall be able to express some of the Tunisian delegation's points of view concerning the various questions and goals with which the Conference will be dealing in its deliberations over the next five weeks. The draft document before us, gentlemen, assumes substantial importance at this session of the General Conference. It is characterized by considerable originality in a number of respects, of which I shall mention the following:
(8.5) To begin with, the draft programme and budget extends over a period of two years,
1981 and 1982. These are the last two years of the six-year or Medium-Term Plan (1977-
1982), so that the efforts expended in the course of these two years will be the culmina- tion and conclusion of work and activities which have continued without interruption for six years. It is obvious “that this must be a factor of considerable weight when the time comes to evaluate the usefulness of the Organization's work and the extent to which it has been positive.
(8.6) Here we find a second characteristic aspect of the draft programme and budget sub- mitted at this session: it extends over a third year, 1983. This is in application of a resolution adopted by the General Conference at its twentieth session. The Conference decided to bring Unesco's programme and budget, in future, into line with those of the other agencies and organizations of the United Nations system, on the understanding that this measure would go into effect in 1984. It is worth noting that the extension of the programme to this additional year, 1983, will give the Organization a valuable opportunity to contemplate its previous work and to evaluate its achievements, while at the same time considering its future activities.
(8.7) A third aspect which endows the draft programme with even more importance is the fact that it will undoubtedly be the basis on which the new six-year plan will be con- structed, the plan whose activities will extend over the period from 1984 to 1989. Thus it is no exaggeration to say that the draft programme before us is simultaneously the culmination of a period of activity which is ending and the introduction to a period which will shortly begin. At the same time, it constitutes an opportunity for review, evalua- tion and a search for greater effectiveness.
(8.8) In view of these considerations, gentlemen, the General Conference would be well advisedto give the chapters and paragraphs of this document careful scrutiny, and to express its views on the options contained therein, the projects and new directions that it includes, and the desire to increase the means of implementing these satisfactorily. The Director-General is well aware of the particular significance that the draft pro- gramme and budget assumes for the Organization at this session, in view of the considera- tions to which I have just referred. I should like to inform him of the Tunisian delega- tion's satisfaction with the wise and fruitful methodology which has been followed in preparing this draft document and which he laid down for those responsible for carrying out the preparatory work. The result is that the general options of the draft programme have been incorporated in the context of the Organization's fundamental orientations and are consistent with those lofty principles and noble ideals for the sake of which Unesco was founded. In accordance with this direction, from which the Organization cannot deviate, all the proposed work and activity projects aim at achieving Unesco's participation in the establishment of greater educational, cultural and social advancement and progress, and greater justice and peace in the societies of this contemporary world of ours.
(8.9) In addition to the foregoing, I note the Director-General's unflagging zeal in applying the recommendations of the twentieth session of the General Conference, and his continuous and fruitful proposals to the distinguished Executive Board, asking it to de- fine objectives and select priorities in programmes of activities. I also note his re- liance on the results obtained from the answers provided by governments in response to consultation, and particularly the recommendations which emerged from that process concern- ing the nature of programmes and the effectiveness which they must possess. Owing to this desire for harmony with the resolutions of the General Conference and with the wishes and recommendations of governments, and also owing to the spirit of co-operation which prevails between the Directorate and the Executive Board of the Organization, the draft programme before us is distinguished by a number of positive features and important improvements. With your permission, Mr President, I shall deal with these, albeit briefly, because they command the assent of the Tunisian delegation and fulfil its desires with respect to the various aspects of co-operation and relations with Unesco which we should like to see.
(8.10) With respect to the distribution of financial resources, the Tunisian delegation supports the options presented in the draft programme and budget, the most important of which, in our view, are the following. In the first place, activities relating to science and technology, including technical and vocational education, are to receive the largest percentage increases arising out of new financing. In addition, the draft document allo- cates substantial financial resources to work associated with evaluation of the Organiza- tion's activities and achievements. Thirdly, the programme is especially characterized by    increased concentration and consolidation in the design of its work projects, in order to 12 avoid dispersal of effort and ensure greater effectiveness, by making adequate means available.
(8.11) Concerning the selection of the kind of projects which will receive the Organiza- tion's attention and support, the Tunisian delegation wishes to record its satisfaction that priority is to be given to activities which meet the needs expressed by Member States, especially developing Member States, and also notes in this connection that projects in whose implementation Unesco will be directly involved will be given a greater increase in financing hitherto. We are persuaded that in continuing to make assistance and support available to states which have a genuine and specific need for such assistance and support, Unesco will merely be acting in accordance with its noble mandate, participating in the task of creating a better balance among the nations of the world, and working to strengthen the means available to ensure progress towards development and advancement.
(8.12) After these considerations which I wished to express concerning the general charac- teristics of the draft programme, I shall now proceed, with your permission, Mr President, to deal with the four subject areas which constitute the main lines of the activities which it is proposed to undertake. And if I dwell on the most important options and directions underlying those activities, it is only because there are analogies between these and our activities in Tunisia, so that perhaps I shall be able to contribute to the deliberations of the Conference by making a few suggestions, which we hope will be in the interests of all:
(8.13) The first area is that pertaining to education. In this connection, we in the Tunisian delegation, and myself especially as the person responsible for this sector in my country, are pleased to express our profound satisfaction with the options and directions of the proposed activities indicated in the draft programme and budget. The continuing efforts to achieve the democratization of education; the struggle against illiteracy; the education of girls, since that is the most useful way to improve the situation of women and enable them to participate meaningfully in society and in the development process; en- couragement of specialization in scientific, technical and vocational courses of study; work to strengthen integrated education in rural environments; the ongoing effort to make the school open to its economic and social environment, so that the school becomes a focal point from which progress and development radiate out; continuing concern with the develop- ment of educational curricula, their renewal, and their association with the requirements of development; concentration of efforts on the upgrading of teachers" qualifications and enhancement of their capabilities in the areas of scientific and vocational education - all these options, which the draft programme sets forth as titles of Unesco activities over the next three years, coincide completely, and I might almost say absolutely, with our concerns, activities and objectives in the efforts we are making to benefit our educa- tional sector. To illustrate this congruence, which pleases us greatly, I need only mention, ladies and gentlemen, that the fundamental challenge which we in Tunisia have been striv- ing to meet ever since independence may be summed up in the statement that we are seeking to achieve the integral development of our country by educating the Tunisian people, raising them to a higher level, making them better qualified and improving their capabili- ties. We have over 1,300,000 children, both boys and girls (out of a total population of approximately six million) who in the course of the past few days have gone to their schools and institutes to. start a new school year. It may also be useful for me to men- tion that the percentage of girls is not very far removed from the percentage of boys in primary schools. Furthermore, Tunisian women are called upon to participate in working for the country's development; they are subject to no impediments in that task, whether at the level of legislation or at the level of practical action, so that under the law - and as our day-to-day reality shows - they can work in all sectors of activity, production and social services, and at all levels of responsibility. I may add at this point that we have incorporated training in various manual skills, both agricultural and industrial, in the content of our primary curricula, and we have set aside class periods for introductory scientific subjects beginning in the first year. We have encouraged vocational and tech- nical education and the various branches of science in our secondary schools, and we have striven energetically to make schools open to their environment, in an effort to link voca- tional and technical training with productive work in enterprises. All this, ladies and gentlemen, leads us to give our unreserved support to the proposals of the draft programme and the requirements associated with them, and we wish the Organization all success in car- rying them out. To conclude these remarks on education, I should like to take up the matter of physical education and sport. We are striving to ensure that this emerging aspect of education is given all the attention it deserves. Tunisia has participated in various acti- vities of the Intergovernmental Committee for Physical Education and Sport, supported its decisions, and contributed to the international fund which has been set up to develop this sector. Our hope is that various efforts will converge - with Unesco's encouragement - to promote this sector, especially with respect to the training of leaders.
(8.14) The second object upon which the Organization's attention is focused, after educa- tion, is the sector of the natural sciences. What is worthy of consideration with respect to this field is that the proposed activity projects related to it are consistent with the thinking and discussion which characterized the preparatory work of the conference held in Vienna in August 1979 under the auspices of the United Nations; its theme was the search for means of putting science and technology to work for development. We are gratified to observe that Unesco's concerns are consistent with the activities of developing countries, and are aimed at being responsive to their needs; that is to say, Unesco has chosen, in its activity programmes, to strengthen scientific and technological capabilities in spe- cific fields for the benefit of the developing countries. It is also proposing, for the implementation of these projects, to call upon the largest possible numbers of associates, experts and persons with scientific and technological skills from the ranks of citizens of the developing countries, on the widest possible basis. In addition, there is a wish to make it possible for the developing countries genuinely to benefit from imported tech- nologies, on a number of interlocking levels. The most important of these are scientific
631   research, the training of specialists, information transfer, exchanges of experience and capabilities, support for long-term scholarships, and the strengthening of scientific and technological education in these countries. The Organization has selected eight major regional field projects aimed, as noted a few minutes ago, at strengthening scientific and technological capabilities in the developing countries concerned, while helping to solve practical problems of economic and social development. We cannot refrain from men- tioning our unqualified support for these initiatives, especially since they correspond to needs which the countries in question have themselves expressed. In this connection, I should like to pause for a moment to consider the seventh regional project, which is con- cerned with the conservation, development and utilization of water resources in the Arab states. This project is one in which Tunisia is keenly interested, so much so that Tunisia has participated in the preparatory work which has paved the way for it. I wish to state that my country is devoting a great deal of attention to the progress of activi- ties related to the International Hydrological Programme, is following their implementa- tion, and calls for the strengthening of the National Committees for the IHP. We also support all initiatives designed to muster more co-operation to cope with this vital problem. Indeed, in November 1979 Tunisia acted as host for the first meeting ‘of National Commissions of the Arab world, which was held under the auspices of Unesco, and which fea- tured discussion of questions related to enhanced participation by Arab states in IHP pro- jects. In addition, we are co-operating with Algeria and Morocco under the United Nations Development Programme and the United Nations Environment Programme, in two projects re- lated to the use of water resources in North Africa. In general, I should like to express my conviction that co-operation in this field, in particular, serves to bring together people with various skills and abilities and harmonizes those skills and abilities at the regional level, making it possible to find appropriate solutions to many common problems. Nor must I omit to mention at this point the unflagging efforts which Unesco has devoted for the past fifteen years to the task of helping Member States to prepare technicians and specialists in the field of water resources, in order to enable the national authori- ties to take over their functions as ably as possible. We also support the Organization's project designed to organize post-university training courses in those Arab and African states which complain that they are short of experts in this field.
(8.15) The third section of the draft programme is the chapter on the social sciences. The Director-General states in his Introduction that of all the chapters of the draft pro- gramme, this is the one which differs most markedly from the corresponding text submitted to the twentieth session of the General Conference. At that session, the General Confer- ence asked the Director-General, on the one hand, to concentrate efforts on the strengthen- ing of social science institutions at thenational, regional and international levels, and on the other hand, to consolidate and combine action programmes in the fields of human rights, development, problems of the environment, and population. The purpose of taking this line was to avoid the dispersal of efforts and resources, and to achieve maximum bene- fit and effectiveness. In order to comply with these instructions, and after consulting the Member States and taking into the account the results of the deliberations of a com- mittee of experts, the Director-General finally decided to recommend seven complementary programme areas covering the major problems of our age. It is worth noting in this con- nection that more attention will be devoted to action projects related to the social sciences in themselves. However, we also note that at the same time, the consideration of these sciences has become firmly associated with questions of development and planning for it, questions of man's life in his environment, questions of human rights, the situa- tion of women and the role of youth. These are the most important substantive issues facing our contemporary world. But while we should like to see the funds earmarked for these activities grow by a larger percentage than has been proposed, especially in com- parison with the increases which have been made available to the education sector, the science and technology sector and the information sector, nevertheless we support the pro- posed programme and wish the Organization all success in carrying it out, hoping that social science activities will soon make a fresh start, and expressing Tunisia's readi- ness to co-operate to the limit of its ability with Unesco and other agencies concerned at the regional, supraregional and international levels.
(8.16) It remains for me to express a certain fear mingled with regret: we have observed that philosophy is losing the place which it formerly occupied in its own right among the social sciences, now that interest in it has declined in the past few years, and we fear that it may disappear altogether in the future, whereas we believe that it has a far- reaching impact and an important role to play in everything pertaining to matters of thought, civilization and education. To be sure, the Director-General says that all the questions put forward in the programme will be impregnated with philosophical reflection, and that it will be a study and research tool. But it is clear that Unesco's weight is a substantial factor in the decline of the identity of philosophy among the social sciences, whereas Unesco is the Organization which should be defending philosophy.
(8.17) The fourth and last of the subject areas with which the proposed activity projects in the draft programme are concerned is the one connected with culture and communication. As far as this goes, it seems to the Tunisian delegation that Unesco's work in these two fields requires all of us to provide more encouragement and support in view of the great importance attached to them by governments, and in view of their pronounced impact on the lives of societies and individuals. It also seems to us that the Directorate needs more clarity with respect to the fundamental orientations which it is deemed desirable to trace for programmes of activities in the field of culture and communication in future years, in order that they may follow the road of growth and provide the services and support which are expected of them. Perhaps the results of the deliberations and investigations undertaken by the International Commission for the Study of Communication Problems, and also the outcome of the work of the Intergovernmental Conference which was held in Paris in April 1980 to study issues of co-operation in the field of communication - perhaps such conferences and the consultations which have followed them will help us evaluate cul- ture and communication-related activities that have taken place in the past, and also give us a clearer idea of what the future may hold. This, in our view, must be the main subject    and the fundamental result of the work of the Second World Conference on Cultural Policies 12 which is to convene in 1982.
(8.18) Mr President, while the Tunisian delegation is, on the whole, in agreement with the proposals presented in this chapter of the draft programme, at the same time we should like to make a few remarks about all the culture and communication activities. Regarding communication, we are in agreement with the four themes which have been selected as axes or foci for programme actions (these are the themes stated in paragraph 199). Nevertheless, we should like, in accordance with the recommendations of the Intergovernmental Conference just referred to, to see efforts devoted to the following fields: development of communica- tion infrastructure in the developing countries; establishment of a new and better balanced international communication order; development of communication systems in the developing countries; a two-way flow of information between the developing countries and the advanced countries, and the establishment of ties of co-operation between them, instead of the re- lations of dependence which are the rule at present; strengthening of training activities and upgrading of skills for the benefit of journalists and specialists working in the developing countries.
(8.19) With regard to programme actions pertaining to culture, I should like, once again, to state that Tunisia supports the draft programme's main lines which are aimed at cul- tural development, regarding it as one aspect of development in general and a factor in growth and progress, not taking the termin its deeper general sense, which is further re- moved from the reality of life. We note with satisfaction that Unesco, applying the decisions of the first World Conference on Cultural Policies which was held in Venice in
1970, has set out, in its programme actions and aid projects, in a constructive direction, especially with respect to the developing countries, inasmuch as it is helping those countries to define cultural policies that are firmly associated with the objectives of social and economic development. Similarly, it is helping them to preserve their cultural identity and encouraging actions, studies and demonstrations by means of which that ident- ity can be made known. Furthermore, Unesco is participating in projects designed to pre- serve the cultural heritage in all its aspects, as well as projects which will result in the preservation of historic monuments and sites. How, ladies and gentlemen, could we fail to support such an initiative as this, when we in Tunisia are making redoubled efforts year after year to preserve our archaeological sites - which are very numerous - and co- operating in that endeavour with Unesco? Unesco has announced that three of these sites are to be regarded as monuments of the world's cultural heritage possessing unique human value, these sites being Qasr al-Jamm, the archaeological site of the city of Carthage, and the old Medina of Tunis, our capital. In addition, beginning this year we are co- operating with ALECSO to preserve the city of Kairouan and the Arab and Islamic archaeolo- gical remains which it contains. In this connection, I must speak to the Organization, in the person of its Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, of our abundant gratitude and sincere thanks for the varied help and assistance which we have received, particularly in view of the fact that Unesco is consolidating its efforts from one year to the next, and launched a broad international campaign, as you know, to preserve Carthage and its unique monuments, which enabled us to secure financing and substantial technical resources through the "World Heritage Fund". All this must truly be regarded as instances of initia- tives and exemplary work which Unesco undertakes in the service of culture and to preserve that heritage which must live on to bear witness to what the mind of man has produced, what his imagination has devised and what his genius has erected in all aspects of life.
(8.20) Mr President, I have been speaking for some time about the noble work performed by Unesco in the service of cultural identity and preservation of the cultural heritage of mankind in many parts of the world. But I would be remiss if I did not denounce the evil work being perpetrated by criminal hands against the cultural identity of certain peoples. In particular, I should like to mention the people of South Africa, who continue to groan under the yoke of colonialism and racial discrimination and to suffer the provo- cations and destructive actions which damage their cultural identity, to say nothing of the various forms of persecution and oppression to which they are subjected.
(8.21) The people of Palestine are another case in point: they were driven out of the land of their forefathers and have been subjected daily to the misfortunes of subjugation since the Zionist entity seized their lands and set up colonies there, seeking in a sys- tematic and persistent fashion to obliterate the country's historic features and make it entirely Jewish, disregarding the mutilation and destruction which they are visiting upon it, and heedless of the repeated resolutions and warnings issued by the United Nations and Unesco. Nor has the Zionist entity been satisfied with all this hideous oppression and this contempt for civilized values, or stopped with its objective of destroying the cultural identity of the Palestinian people, which necessarily involves depriving Palestinian children of their right to basic education; no, going further still, the Zionists have now decided to adopt the Holy City of Jerusalem as their eternal capital, so they claim, heedless of the rights of the Palestinian people in their own country and their own city, and estimating the sanctity of the Christian and Islamic heritage there as worthless. After all this, we call upon the General Conference to do everything in its power to impose respect for international law and the resolutions adopted by previous con- ferences, especially with regard to the Holy City of Jerusalem. We also call upon Unesco to continue its co-operation with the Arab states in the matter of supervision of the education of Palestinian children in the occupied territories, in the context of an educa- tion system which will guarantee the preservation of their unique cultural identity.
(8.22) Mr President, these have been a few of the observations and considerations which I thought it was my duty to share with you in the work of the General Conference. We are determined, at the level of the work of the Commissions and with regard to everything which might serve to strengthen our great Organization, to do everything in our power to help it advance in the service of those noble goals and lofty ideals for the sake of which it was founded, and which it has consistently striven to achieve and propagate, regardless of obstacles and difficulties. Thank you for your courtesy in listening to my remarks. Peace be with you.
633   Os. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Tunisian delegation, and I give the floor to H.E. Mr M. Mamadi Keita, Minister of Higher Education and Scientific Research of Guinea, head of the Guinean delegation.
10.1-M: KEITA ‘(Guinée).— Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Messieurs les ministres, honorables délégués, vous me permet- trez tout d'abord de rendre un sincère hommage à la mémoire de l'une des figures les plus prestigieuses de l'histoire contemporaine, dont la vie, entiërement vouée a la cause sacrée des peuples, fut un exploit constant au nom des plus nobles idéaux de l'humanité et dont l'oeuvre historique exceptionnelle a permis de tenir sur cette belle et héroïque terre de Yougoslavie le forum le plus représentatif de l'Unesco. Nous voudrions parler de ce fils du peuple, grand ami du peuple de Guinée, l'illustre président Josip Broz Tito.
10.2 Monsieur le Président, la délégation guinéenne, que j'ai l'honneur et l'in- signe privilège de conduire, se fait le grand plaisir de transmettre à la vingt et unième session de la Conférence générale les salutations chaleureuses et le mes- sage de solidarité active du peuple de Guinée, de son Parti-Etat et de son leader, responsable suprême de la Révolution, le camarade président Ahmed Sékou Touré.
10.3 Notre délégation tient aussi à adresser à M. Ivo Margan, ainsi qu'aux autres membres du Bureau, ses vives félicitations pour leur brillante élection et à lui dire combien elle est convaincue que sous sa direction, la Conférence prendra des décisions conformes aux aspirations et aux intérêts de nos peuples.
10.4 Monsieur le Président, des problèmes fondamentaux préoccupent et même in- quidtent à l'heure actuelle nos peuples. En effet, l'humanité vit une époque parti- culièrement significative, marquée contradictoirement par un puissant et irréver- sible mouvement des peuples luttant pour l'indépendance, la liberté, la justice et la maîtrise de leurs ressources nationales, en même temps que par la recrudescence de la réaction impérialiste qui cherche par tous les moyens, mais en vain, à con- trecarrer ce processus et à récupérer le terrain perdu.
10.5 La victoire totale du Front patriotique de Robert Mugabe et de Joshua N'Komo sur l'impérialisme et le colonialisme, suivie de la proclamation de l'indépendance du Zimbabwe, met suffisamment en lumière l'inéluctabilité de la victoire des peuples opprimés et marque une étape décisive dans la lutte de libération en Afrique australe. Nous saluons ici le courage et l'héroîsme du vaillant peuple zimbabwe et nous l'assurons de la totale et indéfectible solidarité de l'Etat popu- laire de Guinée.
10.6 Mais cette poussée irrésistible des peuples qui n'ira qu'en se développant inquiète et effraie l'impérialisme et le colonialisme qui déchaînent leurs forces agressives pour sauvegarder leurs positions. La discrimination raciale qui con- tinue de sévir en Afrique australe est un véritable crime contre la conscience et la dignité de l'homme. Les racistes de Pretoria lancent ainsi un défi que nous devons relever par diverses voies.
10.7 Monsieur le Président, l'obligation morale nous incombe d'exprimer notre satisfaction et nos encouragements à l'Unesco pour l'action courageuse et persévé- rante menée depuis la vingtième session de la Conférence pour le retour à ceux qui l'ont créé de leur patrimoine culturel irremplaçable. Depuis deux ans, en effet, que ce soit par l'intermédiaire du Comité intergouvernemental pour la promotion du retour de biens culturels à leurs pays d'origine ou de leur restitution en cas d'appropriation illégale où a travers les activités du Conseil international des musées et du Secrétariat de l'Unesco, nous avons enregistré de vigoureuses actions de sensibilisation de l'opinion publique internationale sur cette question.
10.8 11 faut, à l'occasion de cette vingt et unième session, réaffirmer notre détermination, en tant que victimes du pillage systématique des plus précieuses pièces de notre patrimoine culturel, à poursuivre et à amplifier notre action de récupération de nos biens culturels illégalement détenus par d'autres. Cette ques- tion pour nous primordiale doit être un des problèmes majeurs que notre Organisa- tion doit s'attacher à résoudre dans les années à venir, tant il est vrai que les peuples spoliés de leurs trésors culturels réclament avec de plus en plus d'insis- tance ce sans quoi ils ne sauraient maîtriser pleinement leur mémoire et leur cons- cience collective, et donc leur identité.
10.9 Monsieur le Président, c'est pourquoi, une nouvelle fois, la communauté in- ternationale tout entière est choquée dans sa conscience par la décision du parle- ment israélien de faire de Jérusalem, la "capitale éternelle de l'Etat hébreu". L'escalade d'Israël dans sa politique de modification de la configuration histo- rique et culturelle de Jérusalem a atteint cette année le seuil de l'intolérable. Notre Organisation doit se pencher au cours de cette session sur les voies et moyens les plus appropriés de ramener Israël à la raison, en tenant strictement
634      compte de l'expérience acquise. Le peuple de Guinée et son Parti-Etat, avec à leur 12 tête le président Ahmed Sékou Touré, s'associeront activement à tous les Etats et à toutes les organisations internationales qui chercheront les moyens les plus efficaces de dissuader l'Etat hébreu de persévérer dans sa politique injuste.
10.10 Les conflits en voie d'aggravation qui subsistent dans le monde constituent une menace à la paix qu'il faut annihiler. Il est particulièrement douloureux de constater qu'au moment où se tient notre Conférence, une guerre fratricide oppose deux pays frères membres de notre Organisation, guerre dont les conséquences sont incalculables pour la paix dans la région et dans le monde. C'est pourquoi ma délé- gation joint son appel à celui, si vibrant, qu'a lancé le Directeur général pour que cessent les hostilités.
10.11 Il est regrettable de voir que la course aux armements dans laquelle l'impé- rialisme a engagé pratiquement tous les Etats du globe a pris une ampleur sans précédent. Chaque jour apparaissent de nouveaux armements d'une puissance destruc- tive toujours plus grande.
10.12 Dans ce contexte d'agressivité permanente, l'évolution des événements com- porte des dangers imprévisibles pour la sécurité internationale et pour l'exis- tence même de l'humanité.
10.13 C'est le lieu et le moment de féliciter l'Unesco pour l'initiative qu'elle a prise d'organiser en juin 1980 un Congrés mondial sur l'éducation pour le désar- mement, qui aura permis aux responsables des politiques de l'éducation et aux spé- cialistes des questions relatives au désarmement et à la paix de nos Etats d'échan- ger leurs vues et leurs expériences. Nous sommes persuadés que l'Unesco entre- prendra d'autres actions dans ce domaine pour promouvoir le développement de l'éducation pour le désarmement dans l'enseignement scolaire comme dans le domaine de l'éducation extrascolaire.
10.14 Monsieur le Président, la République populaire révolutionnaire de Guinée se réjouit de constater que l'Unesco participe activement, dans le cadre de ses compé- tences, à la solution des problèmes majeurs de notre époque : renforcement de la paix, désarmement, lutte contre le colonialisme et le racisme, développement d'une coopération internationale sur la base de l'équité. La contribution de l'Unesco est d'autant plus précieuse qu'elle tient compte, pour reprendre les paroles de notre frère Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, "de deux éléments fondamentaux qui sont au coeur de la problématique actuelle du monde : la dimension mondiale des problèmes que marquent les liens de dépendance réciproque entre les différentes sociétés, et la diversité des situations qui est le reflet du génie propre de chaque peuple et l'expression de ses aspirations à l'identité, c'est-à-dire à lui-même".
10.15 Pour le Parti-Etat de Guinée, la lutte pour la paix est indissolublement liée à la lutte contre toute forme d'oppression et d'exploitation, car du succès de cette lutte se dégagent de nouvelles possibilités pour élargir la paix, la dé- tente et la coopération internationale. Il ne s'agit donc pas de perpétuer le statu quo politique, social et économique qui tenterait de maintenir la plupart des peuples dans le carcan de l'impérialisme, du colonalisme et du néo-colonia- lisme ; il ne s'agit pas non plus d'opposer la lutte des peuples pour leur émanci- pation à la détente internationale. La paix doit être universelle, une et indi- visible, donc applicable à toutes les régions du monde et au profit de l'ensemble des nations.
10.16 Voila notre conception de la paix, qui ne signifie pas seulement absence de guerre, mais aussi un nouvel ordre international se fondant essentiellement sur la volonté des peuples.
10.17 C'est pourquoi, Monsieur le Président, nous aurions une vision réellement étroite du désarmement si notre action pour la détente internationale se limitait à exiger l'équilibre des forces entre les grandes puissances ou les blocs politico-militaires. Autrement dit, l'effort commun pour atténuer, et finalement arrêter la course aux armements, doit aller de pair avec la réalisation d'actions concertées pour liquider le racisme, le colonialisme, le pillage des ressources matérielles et l'inégalité dans le monde qui sont autant de sources actives de conflits.
10.18 En tout cas, à un système économique international profondément injuste et incompatible avec la volonté de développement des nations, les peuples opposent de plus en plus des structures de lutte efficaces et opérationnelles.
10.19 Par son prestige, son expérience, notre Organisation peut renforcer sa con- tribution au règlement des problèmes essentiels de l'humanité. En tout cas, la République populaire révolutionnaire de Guinée fera tout pour soutenir et encou- rager l'effort de l'Unesco dont l'action normative et les activités opéra- tionnelles ne cessent de s'affermir sur tous les plans.
10.20 L'Unesco, en effet, doit compléter les efforts de l'ONU, de l'OUA et des mouvements de libération nationale dans le domaine de la lutte contre les derniers bastions du colonialisme en Afrique et pour la liquidation des foyers racistes dans le monde. Elle doit notamment effectuer des recherches lui permettant d'in- fluer plus largement et plus profondément sur l'opinion publique en vue de la mobi- liser contre ces iniquités historiques que sont le sionisme et l'apartheid.
10.21 Monsieur le Président, nous sommes persuadés qu'il faut ramener le problème de la lutte contre le racisme et les préjugés raciaux à celui de la protection de l'homme, de la non-discrimination, et qu'il faut instaurer l'égalité réelle des hommes au sein de la même nation. Nous considérons, en effet, que la liberté, la dignité, le droit à la vie, au travail, le droit d'élire et d'être élu, le droit à la prospérité, la démocratie sont des conquêtes et surtout des valeurs uni- verselles indivisibles.
10.22 Pour le Parti-Etat de Guinée, les "droits de l'homme découlent des droits du peuple et ne se comprennent, ne s'expliquent et ne se justifient que par eux". Or, aujourd'hui, en Asie, en Afrique et en Amérique latine, bref dans ce que l'on appelle le Tiers Monde, la lutte historique est celle de la reconquête, de l'élar- gissement, du raffermissement des droits des peuples dont ceux de disposer d'eux- mêmes, d'établir souverainement le régime de leur choix, de les défendre envers et contre tout, de prendre et d'appliquer toutes mesures propres à les sortir du sous-développement scientifique, technique et matériel, et ce, dans l'indépendance la plus complète.
10.23 Notre Parti-Etat considère aussi que, pour garantir l'application correcte et totale, dans tous les pays du monde, de l'article 55 de la Charte des Nations Unies portant sur le respect universel et effectif des droits de l'homme et des libertés fondamentales pour tous, sans discrimination de race, de sexe, de langue ou de religion, il y a lieu de faire en sorte que les grandes puissances indus- trielles cessent d'exploiter les ressources naturelles des nations non développées en compromettant leur équilibre interne et de favoriser l'instauration du nouvel ordre économique international pour une solidarité et une justice sociale plus effective entre les nations.
10.24 L'Unesco, dont le grand mérite est d'envisager les problèmes de la paix, de l'éducation, de la culture et de la communication dans leur interdépendance avec les exigences de la restructuration des relations économiques internationales, doit particulièrement aider les pays dominés et exploités à trouver la voie d'un développement indépendant.
10.25 En ce qui concerne l'Afrique, l'Unesco doit mettre à profit son expérience ainsi que l'expérience collective de ses Etats membres pour renforcer le processus d'intégration des économies africaines dont les bases ont été méthodiquement jetées lors du sommet extraordinaire de l'OUA à Lagos, en avril 1980.
10.26 Monsieur le Président, la lutte pour la paix, la sécurité et l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre international est étroitement liée à la lutte pour la promotion d'une éducation nouvelle et d'un nouvel ordre culturel dans le monde.
10.27 En effet, pour le Parti-Etat de Guinée, l'élévation du facteur éducation - conscience et compétence des masses - reste le moyen privilégié de contrer l'agressivité impérialiste et de construire une société nouvelle réellement paci- fique car basée sur l'exercice de tous les pouvoirs par le peuple. C'est pourquoi la promotion de l'éducation nouvelle n'est pas un thème de dissertation ou de spé- culation mais un impératif urgent qui doit se traduire par des solutions concrètes.
10.28 L'essentiel pour le développement économique des pays en développement est de mettre les masses dans les conditions qui leur permettent de se développer au plan de la production des biens matériels et non matériels. Nos masses doivent devenir productrices de techniques et de technologies nouvelles répondant mieux à leur situation, à leurs besoins et surtout à la vision qu'elles ont du devenir de la société et de l'homme. C'est pourquoi, en vue de l'établissement de stratégies éducatives plus complètes et plus efficaces, l'activité de l'Unesco doit tendre à articuler l'éducation scolaire et l'éducation non scolaire de manière originale et selon des démarches créatrices, ainsi qu'à assurer leur développement complémen- taire, pour une meilleure insertion de toutes les catégories et couches de la so- ciété dans les programmes nationaux ou régionaux.
10.29 Dans la perspective générale d'une profonde remise en question de systèmes éducatifs dépassés, un intérêt capital doit être porté à la recherche scienti- fique, à l'alphabétisation des masses et à la coopération scientifique et tech- nique, ainsi qu'à la promotion d'un nouvel ordre de l'information.
10.30 Monsieur le Président, nous tenons à dire une fois de plus, et de la façon la plus solennelle, que le Parti-Etat de Guinée partage entièrement le souci de
636    l'Unesco d'oeuvrer en faveur de l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre mondial de l'in- formation et de la communication plus juste et plus efficace.
10.31 Nous ne ‘dénoncerons jamais assez le déséquilibre de la circulation de l'in- formation, qui est toujours allée des centres hégémoniques vers la périphérie do- minée qu'est le Tiers Monde. Les méfaits de cette situation de dépendance de nos pays sont ressentis quotidiennement par les dirigeants et les peuples de nos Etats. En effet, la domination du système d'information par quelques pays et sur- tout par les sociétés transnationales exerce une influence manifeste et néfaste sur le caractère, le contenu et la valeur de l'information. Or, en dépit des ef- forts louables que déploie depuis plus d'une décennie l'Unesco, malgré l'effort de conscientisation qu'elle développe, nous sommes encore loin de corriger le déséqui- libre. Pire, les progrès spectaculaires de la science et de la technologie dans le domaine de la communication, surtout avec l'apparition des satellites, tendent à aggraver la situation. Car un grand nombre de pays n'ont pas les ressources néces- saires pour édifier une infrastructure adéquate pour la réception et la diffusion de l'information. Ainsi les pays se trouvent dans l'impossibilité d'influencer la circulation internationale de l'information en donnant un point de vue objectif sur leurs réalités et leurs situations. Notre pays, la République populaire révolu- tionnaire de Guinée, le sait plus que tout autre, depuis deux décennies qu'elle mène une révolution démocratique et populaire. La Guinée a été et reste en effet la cible permanente et privilégiée des médias dominés par l'impérialisme interna- tional. Tout a été mis en oeuvre pour dénaturer, calomnier l'entreprise révolution- naire guinéenne, aux seules fins d'en limiter la portée bénéfique pour l'Afrique et le reste du monde. Heureusement, comme aime à le dire le responsable suprême de la Révolution, le président Ahmed Sékou Touré : "Il en est de la Révolution comme de la vérité, personne ne saurait l'isoler". C'est pourquoi, Monsieur le Prési- dent, notre pays ne ménage aucun effort, au niveau national comme au niveau régio- nal et international, pour favoriser la réalisation concrète des principes fonda- mentaux concernant la contribution des organes d'information au renforcement de la paix, de la compréhension internationale, à la promotion des droits de l'homme et des peuples, à la lutte contre le racisme, l'apartheid et l'incitation à la guerre. De même, il agit aux plans national et international pour que les organes d'information jouent un rôle positif dans l'éducation des jeunes et des adultes et pour promouvoir le développement. Car, comme l'affirme à juste titre le président Ahmed Sékou Touré : "L'information, par ses capacités de propagation, constitue un puissant moyen d'évolution et de développement mais encore faut-il que le moyen soit employé selon des centres d'intérêt déterminés, en d'autres termes, que lui soit assigné un objet en rapport avec les conditions, les capacités et les aspira- tions évolutives du milieu social dans lequel elle doit être employée".
10.32 Monsieur le Président, l'importance capitale accordée à toutes ces ques- tions par le Parti-Etat de Guinée, le développement qui leur est donné dans le contexte de la démocratie populaire et révolutionnaire offrent un grand intérêt théorique, pratique et scientifique pour l'Unesco, dont l'un des objectifs primor- diaux est de renforcer la paix et la compréhension entre les peuples en dévelop- pant la coopération internationale dans les domaines de l'instruction, de la science, de la culture et de l'information.
10.33 En République populaire révolutionnaire de Guinée, l'éducation est un pro- blème central, une des préoccupations essentielles du Parti-Etat. Pour nous, le problème de la nécessaire "révolution de la culture" est un des points fondamen- taux du programme d'édification de la nouvelle société. C'est ce qui explique toute l'importance qui a été reconnue et accordée à l'éducation en tant qu'expres- sion de la culture sociale globale.
10.34 La mise en place d'un système d'éducation pertinent, enraciné dans les réa- lités populaires, adoptant progressivement les langues nationales comme véhicules et supports de la pensée scientifique, technique et philosophique et orienté vers le développement de toutes les branches du secteur économique et social a fait de l'école de la Révolution populaire en Guinée une arme directe de lutte contre le sous-développement, un facteur privilégié de promotion de l'identité africaine.
10.35 Prenant appui sur la Révolution culturelle socialiste, l'éducation en Guinée s'étend à l'ensemble du peuple, sans aucune forme de discrimination. Pour promouvoir cette civilisation de masse, le Parti-Etat fait intervenir toutes les Structures organiques et les institutions du pouvoir populaire. Ainsi, s'inspirant du programme général du Parti démocratique de Guinée, les organisations de masse des travailleurs, des femmes et des jeunes participent activement à l'éducation permanente de toutes les couches de la population. Les structures du Parti-Etat constituent pour le peuple une école irremplaçable, la condition réellement déci- sive de son intervention consciente dans tous les secteurs d'activité de la nation.
10.36 De même, en Guinée, l'information est au service du peuple. Ainsi, tous les Secteurs principaux comme la radio-télévision, le cinéma, les organes de la presse= écrite, les services de presse des organisations de masse, concourent à l'information
637    objective du peuple, a sa formation dans les disciplines scientifiques et tech- niques, a la transformation qualitative de son comportement social, humain et historique à l'égard de la nature et des autres peuples.
10.37 Voila pourquoi, Monsieur le Président, la République populaire révolution- naire de Guinée est devenue un rempart au service de la paix en Afrique et dans le monde.
10.38 Monsieur le Président, pour terminer, notre délégation voudrait signifier qu'elle approuve fondamentalement le Projet de programme et de budget présenté dans le document 21 C/5, document dont elle apprécie hautement le sérieux et la clarté et dont l'exécution correcte permettra, nous en sommes sûrs, de parvenir à une meilleure compréhension entre les peuples, à travers les progrès de l'éduca- tion, de la science et de la culture. Que M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, et l'ensemble de son Secrétariat en soient vivement félicités. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
11. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the delegation of Guinea, and I give the floor to H.E. the Hon. Louis Tull, Minister of Education of Barbados, and head of the Barbadian delegation.
12.1 Mr TULL (Barbados): Mr President, I am happy to associate myself with those who have already requested you to convey to Mr Ivo Margan their congratulations on his election as President of the twenty-first session of the General Conference of Unesco. I am confident that his capable leadership will contribute significantly to the success of our meeting. My confidence is strengthened by the fact that this session is being held in the land of the birth of Josip Broz Tito, whose death earlier this year robbed the world of one of its most famous stalwarts of non-alignment. It is my sincere hope that all that he held dear, justice, independence, mutual respect and peaceful coexistence, will influence our work and make this meeting, not only another important milestone in Unesco's history, but also a lasting memorial to the life of this great man.
12.2: I also wish to take this opportunity to convey through you, Mr President, the best wishes of the Government and people of Barbados to the President of the Presidency and the people of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
12.3 It is my further pleasant duty warmly to congratulate Mr Napoléon LeBlanc, whose excellent performance as President of the twentieth session of the General Conference and continued close association with the work of the Organization since that occasion clearly showed his deep knowledge of and commitment to the aims and objectives of Unesco.
12.4 Mr President, this year completes the second phase of the Organization's first Medium-Term Plan. We are therefore called upon, not only to consider and approve the programme and budget for the final phase of this Plan, but also to discuss and put forward some preliminary guidelines concerning the shape of the second Medium-Term Plan, which will provide the framework for the Organization's activities through the remainder of the eighties. It is therefore no exaggeration to say that this session is of particular importance for Unesco and indeed for all its Member States.
12.5 We meet against a background of severe global economic recession in which rampant inflation has reduced many developing countries to near-bankruptcy, in which the constantly escalating costs of energy negate development efforts and indeed in which the global implications of recent development are still being assessed.
12.6 “Needless to say, Mr President, that the developing countries are those which will first feel the effects of these latest developments.
12.7 Over the past two years, we have seen an almost complete breakdown in the North-South dialogue, culminating in the inconclusive Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly which ended in New York earlier this month. We have also witnessed the disappointing outcome of the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development in Vienna, and the failure of a number of countries to honour even those modest pledges which were made at that meeting. At the same time, we are witnessing a heightening of superpower tensions, and a frightening escalation in expenditure on arms. It is tragically ironic that those same countries which committed themselves in the sixties to the eradication of il- literacy by the eighties, are the same countries which now find it necessary to reduce the level of their assistance to the developing countries, but annually allocate a higher percentage of their national budgets to the manufacture or acqui- sition of weapons of destruction. It is not surprising, Mr President, that many    of us from the developing countries have reached a point of disillusionment, and question the utility of continued participation in international conferences which hold little prospect of producing positive action.
12.8 We nevertheless continue to look towards Unesco with some hope. For this Organization takes as its perspective man as the centre of development. Thus, it has perceived its role in pursuit of the goals of the international economic order to be not only one of facilitating the transfer of resources from the rich to the poor, but additionally of assisting the developing countries in acquiring a capa- city for self-development, and for utilizing this capacity to create a better social and cultural environment.
12.9 The present Medium-Term Plan, which was adopted unanimously in 1976, provided the blueprint for Unesco's contribution to the establishment of a new international economic order. The disturbing changes which have occurred in the international economic system certainly place a greater responsibility on Unesco and have forced some modifications to be included in the Medium-Term Plan to permit the programmes to be adapted to these changed circumstances.
12.10 But, Mr President, the Medium-Term Plan itself places constraints on the Organization. Thus we find that, at a time when there is an urgent need for the acceleration of activities, we are tied to a very modest growth rate of 6.5 per cent over the next three years - just over 2 per cent per annum! Even this modest growth rate is, I am informed, resisted by the more affluent countries, some of which would wish to have the Organization reduce its activities and adopt a zero growth budget! We must be led to question the commitment of these countries to the goals of the new international economic order, and indeed to the objectives assigned toiUnesco by. its Constitution.
12.11 Mr President; given the constraints to which I have referred, the Draft Pro- gramme and Budget for 1981-1983 is in my view generally satisfactory. The Director- General has faithfully attempted to comply with the various directives laid down by the last session of the General Conference and by the Executive Board for the final phase of the Medium-Term Plan. The additional emphasis and funding being provided for the struggle against illiteracy, the increased activities proposed for science and technology, including science and technology education, technical and vocational education, scientific and technological information, statistics on science and technology, are all of vital importance for endowing the populations of the developing countries with a capacity for endogenous development. The in- creased growth rate for these activities, regrettably resulting in the decrease of resources for other areas, is in keeping with the injunction contained in the Execu- tive Board's decision at its 108th session.
12.12 TI am especially pleased at the inclusion of proposals for a major project for the eradication of illiteracy in Latin America and the Caribbean as requested in the Mexico Declaration, and urge the Director-General to spare no effort in pricking the conscience of the international community regarding its responsibility for providing additional means for an all-out onslaught on this scourge, which af- flicts so large a part of mankind and inhibits its capacity to make optimal use of its resources, both physical and material.
12.13 A recent report by the World Bank (World Development Report, 119807 FThe World Bank/OUP) makes the point that every individual is born with a collection of abilities and talents, and that education, in its many forms, helps him to develop and apply them. It further demonstrates that in economic terms human development - defined as better education, health, nutrition and family planning - is as effec- tive in producing growth as capital investment in plant or infrastructure. The report finds that the rate of return on education in all developing countries taken as a group is as high as 24.2 per cent for primary education, 15.4 per cent for secondary education and 12.3 per cent for higher education. Needless to say, Mr President, we cannot consider potential returns on secondary and higher educa- tion if we cannot provide primary education for large numbers of our ‎ط0 8 major thrust must therefore be towards the provision of education at this level, and the consequent elimination of illiteracy.
12.14 This brings me to a feature of the programme and budget which causes me some concern. I note that, for a number of proposed activities, significant funding is anticipated from extra-budgetary sources, some $172 million of which should be from UNDP. Unesco's efforts in attracting funds from these sources are to be commended and, indeed, I urge the Organization to intensify its efforts as well as to diver- sify its contacts in this connection.
12.15 Recent trends, however, tend to highlight the uncertainties related to plan- ning on the basis of such funds. In fact the projects for the Caribbean dependent on UNDP funding in this biennium seem threatened to be severely pruned down because of the unavailability of expected resources.
12.16 The total estimated cost of projects to be funded from United Nations sour- ces in the 1981-1983 Programme and Budget is placed at slightly more than $259,000,000, an increase of almost 117 per cent over the last biennium. I must ask, Mr President, how realistic is this projection. I cannot envisage any sudden favourable reversal of trends to justify such an optimistic forecast. This is a matter of some importance. Most of these projects are in areas critical to the transformation of the societies of the developing countries, and budgetary uncer- tainty wreaks havoc on the planning processes of these countries.
12.17 The situation is bad enough when projects have not yet been commenced. It is almost disastrous when projects already under way have to be abruptly terminated or considerably scaled down as a result of the sudden disappearance of funds. In most cases, the countries involved have no say in the eventual decision on the termination or reduction of funding. In fact, it appears that Unesco, which is the executing agency for the projects, is also only slightly involved in such decisions.
12.18 This raises the fundamental question of the relationship between Unesco and another United Nations body at the decision-making level. Some mechanism must be established to ensure that, where cuts are necessary as a result of the lack of generosity on the part of the more affluent countries, consultations involving the affected countries, Unesco and the donor agency are adequate for an agreement to be reached on the least damaging way of accommodating those cuts.
12.19 This brings me on to another factor, which not only involves the distribu- tion of extra-budgetary resources, but also relates to the basic philosophy of Unesco's work. This Organization has progressively sought to recognize the increas- ing plurality and diversity of its membership and, in this connection, its efforts at decentralization have been commendable. It is my view, however, that the time has come for urgent and positive steps to be taken to ensure that, in its program- ming and budgeting, Unesco takes full acount of the specific interests and needs of subregional groups.
12.20 In Latin America and the Caribbean, we have seen the admission to this Organization, within the last six years, of four new Caribbean members. The indi- cations are that by the time we next meet there will be four or five more new mem- bers from the subregion, bringing the total number to thirteen out of a potential total of thirty-three - more than one-third of the Member States in Latin America and the Caribbean. Future planning must take account of this increased subregional membership.
12.21 Clear and distinct provision must be made for a people who, while sharing some common links with their neighbours, possess unique historical, cultural and political characteristics, whose development is at a different stage, and who, because of their recent advent on the international scene, require more special- ized individual attention from the Organization. The Director-General is not un- aware of the problems of the Caribbean. We were honoured to have the Director- General visit a number of Caribbean countries last year, and I am gratified that it was possible for him to include my own country in his itinerary. During his visit, he had the opportunity of holding discussions with the Ministers from nearly all the countries in the subregion, and in his subsequent report to the Executive Board at its 107th session he spoke of the sense of marginalization which the sub- region experienced, and indicated that steps would have to be taken to correct this situation, and to take account of the specificity of needs of the English-speaking Caribbean.
12.22 I am aware that some tentative steps have been taken. The Subregional Office in Kingston to which I referred at the twentieth session of the General Conference has been officially opened. We are, however, concerned that it is not yet fully equipped to cater to our needs. These are pressing, and Unesco must take immediate action to provide the necessary resources to meet them.
12.23 Unesco's activities during the period of the second Medium-Term Plan should continue to have as their main perspectives the concepts of cultural identity and development as a multidimensional, endogenous process centred around man, both as an individual and as a member of the community of nations. It should envisage giving greater emphasis to programmes geared towards the ultimate eradication of illiteracy: the teaching of human rights and mutual respect, the halting of the arms race through education for peace and the promotion of understanding of the cultural identity of others and of the interaction of different cultures.
12.24 The Plan must recognize the vital role of communications as a tool for the attainment of these objectives. For this reason, my delegation attaches great im- portance to the discussions which will take place during this session on the sub- ject. Unesco has played an active part within the United Nations family in stimu- lating international debate on the role of communications, and it is obvious that,      even now, despite the length and intensity of the deabte, there is no real identity of views on the role, manner of conduct or even the mechanics required for the rational and universal dissemination of information. I am not sufficiently naive to believe that these differences can be resolved at this session, but lt is my fervent hope that, in the spirit of compromise that has always characterized the General Conference, we can find common ground on which positive steps may be taken to redress the present imbalance in the flow of information.
12.25 My delegation has examined with interest the recommendations of the Inter- governmental Conference for Co-operation on Activities, Needs and Programmes for Communication Development which was held in Paris in April this year. we believe that these recommendations provide the basis for concrete action towards an improve- ment of the communication problems of the Third World. We therefore commend them to the General Conference for approval. Their adoption will clear the way for positive planning in the second Medium-Term Plan and will also, doubtless, contri- bute to the eventual establishment of a new international information order. It is much easier, Mr President, to reach agreement between parties which negotiate on the basis of comparability, even if not of equality.
12.26 The second Medium-Term Plan must also take cognizance of the need for a balance to be struck between reflection and action-oriented programming, between activities geared towards accelerating national capacities for economic develop- ment and those aimed at satisfying the spiritual and sociological aspirations of man. The interdisciplinary approach to programming must be encouraged so that Unesco's human resources are used to the best advantage. Above all, the move to- wards decentralization must not be sacrificed on the altar of programme concentra- tion. Unesco must bear in mind the pluri-cultural complexion of the totality of its Member States, as well as their infinite variety of degrees of development.
12.27 Mr President, the participation programme has proved its effectiveness during the course of this Medium-Term Plan as a mechanism for co-operation between Unesco and Member States. My delegation firmly recommends its retention and in- deed its expansion.
12.28 It is also essential that the next Medium-Term Plan, when devised, be flexible. We are living in an era of bewildering change, which has had'ÿts'im- pact on the present Medium-Term Plan. The experience gained should be reflected in the adoption of a less rigid structure for the new Plan so as to ensure that it can be adapted more easily to changed circumstances.
12.29 Two days ago this Conference explicitly expressed its confidence in Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow when it voted unanimously to re-elect him for a second term of office. Under his leadership this Organization has exhibited acute sensi- tivity to the global problems which have arisen in thei last sixiyears,;.and has played a significant role in the search for solutions to these problems.
12.30 I add my warm congratulations to those already expressed to him. My dele- gation is convinced that under his wise guidance Unesco will continue to play a positive role in mankind's search for a society built on social justice andrres- pect, in which, Mr President, universal education, the application of science and technology to peaceful purposes and mutual appreciation of the diverse cultural riches of all peoples will make a reality of the noble ideals enshrined in the Constitution of this Organization.
13. The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Barbadian delegation, and I give the floor to H.E. Mrs Maria Groza, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of Romania, and head of Romanian delegation.
14.1 Mme GROZA (Roumanie) .- Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi d'abord de vous demander de transmettre a M. Ivo Margan les félicitations cordiales de la délégation roumaine pour son élec- tion en tant que président de la vingt et unième session de la Conférence générale et de l'assurer de notre plein concours. Son élection, Monsieur le Président, à cette haute fonction ne représente pas seulement une reconnaissance de ses quali- tés personnelles mais est aussi un hommage à la République fédérative socialiste de Yougoslavie, pays voisin du mien, avec lequel la Roumanie entretient tradition- nellement des relations amicales de large coopération. Nous y voyons aussi le té- moignage de l'estime que la communauté internationale accorde à l'importante con- tribution que son pays apporte à l'action visant au développement de la coopéra- tion entre les peuples et au raffermissement de la paix internationale, action fondée sur la politique magistralement forgée par le Maréchal Tito, grand ami de la Roumanie, dont la mémoire restera toujours vivante dans nos esprits.
14.2 Qu'il me soit aussi permis, Monsieur le Président, de saisir cette occasion de féliciter chaleureusement le Directeur général d'avoir été unanimement chargé    de remplir un second mandat, de lui souhaiter plein succès dans l'action qu'il necesse de déployer en vue d'assurer le rayonnement de 1'Unesco dans la vie interna- tionale et le développement de la coopération entre les pays et les peuples du monde.
14.3 Monsieur le Président, la vingt et unième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco a lieu dans un contexte international complexe et contradictoire, à unmoment où la situation mondiale est marquée par des problèmes graves et profonds, par des phénomènes et des événements qui mettent toujours plus gravement en danger aussi bien la paix et l'indépendance des peuples que leurs cultures et leurs civilisations.
14.4 Les peuples du monde, l'opinion publique de partout se sont fermement élevés contre la politique de tension très grave qui pèse sur la vie internationale, tout en exprimant leur détermination de ne pas se laisser engager dans la voie des con- frontations, dont les conséquences seraient imprévisibles pour le destin de l'humanité.
14.5 Dès lors, nous pensons qu'il est nécessaire que tous les peuples et toutes les organisations internationales, dont l'Unesco, s'attachent à oeuvrer avec toute la détermination possible à ce qu'il soit mis fin à la tension internationale et à ce que soit reprise et poursuivie la politique de détente, de coopération et de paix, d'égalité et de plein respect de l'indépendance et de la souveraineté nationales.
14.6 Dans le cadre de cet effort général, un rôle très important est dévolu à notre Conférence, celui de contribuer par ses travaux au maintien et à la consoli- dation de la paix et à la promotion d'une coopération internationale fondée sur la justice et l'équité, à la mise en place d'un nouvel ordre économique interna- tional. Il appartient à l'Unesco de contribuer, par son action opérationnelle, éthique et intellectuelle, à l'instauration d'un climat de détente favorable au développement de la coopération entre les nations et à l'encouragement de l'échange des biens matériels et des valeurs spirituelles.
14.7 Monsieur le Président, il ne fait pas de doute que l'un des problèmes cru- ciaux du monde contemporain est la liquidation du sous-développement et l'élimina- tion définitive de la vieille politique impérialiste, colonialiste et néo- colonialiste, lesquels constituent des obstacles redoutables au développement despeuples et au maintien de la paix et de la coopération internationales.
14.8 C'est précisément pourquoi nous considérons que l'attention de la communauté internationale doit être centrée sur la mise en place du nouvel ordre économique international.
14,9. Selon la conception de. la Roumanie, l'instauration de ce nouvel ordre doit aboutir à la restructuration fondamentale du système actuel des relations entre les Etats, à l'élimination des graves anomalies sociales qui affectent la condi- tion humaine elle-même, au rattrapage des retards, au progrès de tous les Etats et de l'humanité tout entière.
14.10 Dans un monde où la famine et la malnutrition, les souffrances et les mala- dies, l'analphabétisme et l'ignorance frappent près des deux tiers de la popula- tion du globe, notre Conférence se doit de contribuer, - et ce dans un esprit de responsabilité - à l'élimination de ces graves phénomènes qui mettent en péril l'existence même de l'être humain.
14.11 La Roumanie, en tant que pays socialiste en développement, attache une im- portance particulière aux efforts déployés par tous les peuples pour la liquida- tion du sous-développement et l'instauration du nouvel ordre économique internatio- nal. Son expérience, ainsi que celle d'autres pays, est là pour prouver que la seule voie efficace pour abolir le sous-développement est l'effort de chaque nation pour mettre en place une économie moderne fondée sur l'accroissement du potentiel scientifique et technologique.
14.12 Mais il s'avère en même temps nécessaire de déployer une large coopération internationale, afin d'appuyer les efforts propres des pays en développement. Nous pensons que l'Unesco peut contribuer toujours davantage à promouvoir l'adoption des mesures appropriées pour que s'accélërent la croissance économique et la diver- sification des économies des pays qui accusent un retard, notamment en mettant en place des programmes de formation des cadres, en stimulant la recherche scienti- fique et en ouvrant à ces pays l'accès sans entraves aux conquêtes de la science et de la technologie modernes.
14.13 Monsieur le Président, mon pays considére que l'un des impératifs majeurs de la paix, de la sécurité, du progrès et de l'épanouissement de la civilisation est l'arrêt immédiat de la course aux armements, et surtout aux armements nu- cléaires. En effet, la course aux armements a atteint un degré d'intensité tel
642    qu'elle met en danger la paix mondiale et le droit méme de tous les peuples a l'existence, à la paix, au développement, à l'éducation et à la culture.
14.14 C'est une grave réalité de nos jours que d'énormes ressources financières, humaines et matérielles, tout comme les conquêtes de la science moderne, sont dé- tournées des objectifs du développement et destinées à des fins de destruction.
14.15 La croissance économique, le développement de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture et l'économie mondiale en sont perturbés, ce qui nuit profondément aux efforts visant à liquider le sous-développement. Par ses graves implications, la course aux armements déforme la conscience et le système même d'éducation et empêche la recherche scientifique de répondre à ses buts naturels et aux aspira- tions vitales de l'humanité au progrès matériel et spirituel.
14.16 C'est précisément en raison des graves dangers de la course aux armements et des effets nuisibles qu'elle engendre pour tous les peuples qu'il est néces- saire, et ce plus que jamais, que toutes les organisations internationales, dont l'Unesco, redoublent d'efforts pour que cesse la course aux armements et que L'on prenne, avant qu'il ne soit trop tard, des mesures de désarmement et, au premier chef, de désarmement nucléaire. Ainsi que le disait récemment le Président de la Roumanie, Nicolae Ceaucescu, "il faut dire un non décisif à la course aux arme- ments ; il faut tout faire pour que les peuples assument la responsabilité qui leur incombe de faire cesser la course aux armements. Mettons tout en oeuvre pour que les merveilleuses conquêtes de la civilisation puissent servir au progrès et au bien-être et pour que la guerre soit à jamais bannie de la vie de l'humanité tout entière". Il faut adopter d'urgence des mesures pour geler et réduire les dépenses militaires et utiliser les fonds ainsi libérés pour satisfaire les be- soins de développement économique, social et culturel de chaque pays et aider les pays en développement.
14.17 Le souci constant de la Roumanie et de son président d'oeuvrer dans ce sens s'est traduit par la décision récemment adoptée par le gouvernement roumain de réduire les dépenses militaires pour 1980. C'est la troisième mesure de ce genre prise ces dernières années par le gouvernement roumain, qui a utilisé les fonds ainsi libérés en vue d'accélérer le progrès économique et social du pays, et de mettre en oeuvre des programmes visant à élever le niveau de vie du peuple.
14.18 Monsieur le Président, il est dit dans l'Acte constitutif de l'Unesco que "les guerres prenant naissance dans l'esprit des hommes, c'est dans l'esprit des hommes que doivent être élevées les défenses de la paix". Partant de la vocation humaniste de notre Organisation, de son rôle dans le domaine de l'éducation pour la paix, le désarmement et le développement, nous considérons que l'Unesco peut apporter une importante contribution à la création d'une opinion publique active favorable à la cessation de la course aux armements - et, avant tout, de la course aux armements nucléaires - et au passage sans délai à des mesures effectives de désarmement.
14.19 Nous pensons qu'il revient à notre Organisation un rôle de premier plan dans l'action tendant à tenir l'opinion publique informée du danger que représente la poursuite de la course aux armements et du fardeau toujours plus lourd que fait peser l'augmentation continue des budgets militaires, une des causes principales, on le sait, de la crise économique actuelle.
14.20 Vu que c'est en Europe que sont concentrés les plus grands effectifs de troupes et d'armement, la Roumanie est profondément soucieuse de garantir la sécu- rité et la coopération sur le continent européen. C'est précisément cet objectif que notre pays poursuit avec toute la constance et la détermination possibles, considérant qu'il faut tout faire pour que la réunion de Madrid soit préparée et se déroule dans les meilleures conditions, de sorte qu'elle puisse donner une im- pulsion nouvelle aux efforts déployés en faveur de la politique de détente et de la mise en oeuvre unitaire des documents d'Helsinki. La Roumanie est donc favo- rable à la convocation d'une conférence européenne consacrée au renforcement de la confiance et du désarmement. La réunion de Madrid doit par ailleurs ouvrir la voie au désengagement militaire et au désarmement sur le continent européen, faute de quoi l'on ne saurait concevoir la paix et la sécurité en Europe et dans le monde, pas plus que le développement de la coopération internationale.
14.21 La délégation roumaine se plaît à saluer le programme de coopération euro- péenne entrepris par l'Unesco ces dernières années. Nous estimons qu'il est néces- saire à l'Unesco de redoubler d'efforts pour stimuler la coopération européenne dans les domaines de sa compétence, et ce avec la participation active de tous les pays de la région Europe, des commissions nationales et des organisations interna- tionales non gouvernementales à vocation européenne.
14.22) Nous jugeons nécessaire que l'Unesco s'attache à appuyer les efforts et l'action des gouvernements européens en vue de mettre en oeuvre les dispositions    de l'Acte final d'Helsinki. Nous attachons une importance toute particulière à la coopération dans le domaine de l'éducation, de la science, de la culture et de l'information aussi bien sur le plan régional que sur le plan sous-régional, coopé- ration appelée selon nous à contribuer à une meilleure connaissance des peuples et à leur rapprochement, tout en favorisant l'intensification et la diversification de leurs relations sur la base d'une confiance mutuelle accrue.
14.23 C'est dire que nous accordons également une importance toute particulière au développement de la coopération entre les pays balkaniques et à la transforma- tion des Balkans en une zone de paix exempte d'armes nucléaires, en une zone de bon voisinage, de confiance mutuelle et de coopération tant bilatérale que multila- térale, ce qui revêt une grande signification pour le développement de la coopéra- tion européenne.
14.24 La délégation roumaine se félicite de l'appui constant que l'Unesco n'a cessé d'accorder à la promotion de la coopération culturelle et scientifique entre les peuples balkaniques. Elle désire, dans ce contexte, attirer l'attention de la Conférence sur les mesures destinées à renforcer la coopération entre les commis- sions nationales des pays balkaniques pour l'Unesco, qui ont organisé l'été der- nier, sur la terre hospitalière de la Yougoslavie, leur huitième conférence. Par ailleurs, je voudrais mentionner l'activité que ne cesse de développer l'Associa- tion internationale du Sud-Est européen dont le siëge se trouve à Bucarest.
14.25 Monsieur le Président, dans l'approche des problèmes touchant à la coopéra- tion internationale dans tous les domaines, la Roumanie part de la nécessité du respect des principes de l'égalité pleine et entière des droits des Etats, de l'in- dépendance et de la souveraineté nationales, de la non-ingérence dans les affaires intérieures, du non-recours à la force et à la menace de l'emploi de la force. Notre pays, qui s'emploie activement à promouvoir de nouveaux principes démocra- tiques dans la vie internationale, considère que la solution exclusivement paci- fique de tous les différends et de toutes les situations de conflit et la recon- naissance du droit inaliénable de chaque peuplé de choisir librement, sans aucune ingérence extérieure, sa propre voie de développement constituent des conditions préalables essentielles si l'on veut promouvoir la détente et la coopération.
14.26 Monsieur le Président, pour ce qui est des problèmes de la paix et du déve- loppement, la Roumanie considère que l'Unesco est plus que jamais appelée äà ac- croître, par ses programmes et son action, sa contribution à la lutte des peuples pour leur développement libre et indépendant et à la liquidation de tous les ves- tiges du colonialisme, du néo-colonialisme, du racisme et de la politique d'apartheid et de toutes les formes de domination sur d'autres peuples, qui sont incompatibles avec la dignité humaine et avec le développement de chaque peuple.
14.27 La Roumanie est entièrement solidaire de la lutte des peuples de la Namibie et de l'Afrique du Sud contre la politique d'apartheid et de discrimination raciale.
14.28 C'est avec chaleur que mon pays et mon peuple ont salué la proclamation de l'indépendance du nouvel Etat du Zimbabwe, couronnement brillant de la lutte héroïque que n'a cessé de mener le peuple zimbabwe. Nous tenons à exprimer notre satisfaction devant l'admission au sein de notre Organisation de ce jeune Etat indépendant, dont la présence sera certainement bénéfique pour l'Unesco.
14.29 Nous saluons également les autres Etats membres qui viennent d'être admis à l'Unesco.
14.30 Par ailleurs, Monsieur le Président, je voudrais réaffirmer notre solida- rité pleine et entière avec la juste lutte menée par le peuple coréen pour réa- liser son idéal national - la réunification indépendante, pacifique et démocra- tique du pays par les Coréens eux-mêmes, sur la base des propositions construc- tives de la République populaire démocratique de Corée et des dispositions de la résolution adoptée voici cing ans par l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies.
14.31 Monsieur le Président, la délégation roumaine, appuie dans l'ensemble le programme de l'Unesco pour 1981-1983 présenté d'une manière si convaincante par le Directeur général et elle tient à souligner l'importance des innovations de struc- ture et de conception apportées au document soumis à la présente session, à partir des principes de la concentration, de l'approche interdisciplinaire et de la sim- plification de la présentation des activités de programme, ce qui confère équi- libre et clarté au Projet de programme et de budget.
14.32 En ce qui concerne l'éducation, le programme met l'accent sur les liens entre l'éducation et la vie active, le travail productif et la recherche scienti- fique, l'accroissement du rôle de l'enseignement en tant que facteur du développe- ment économique et social. Il met également l'accent sur la réalisation du droit à l'éducation et la démocratisation de l'enseignement, la modernisation et le perfec- tionnement des contenus, des méthodes et des techniques de l'éducation et, compte
644    tenu des exigences du progrès et de la vie active, sur l'articulation entre l'édu- cation scolaire et l'éducation extrascolaire.
14.33 Mon gouvernement soutient activement ces principes, qui vont dans le sens d'un renforcement des liens entre l'enseignement, la recherche et la production, et se préoccupe lui-même d'adapter en permanence l'enseignement aux exigences de la vie sociale.
14.34 Mon pays s'attache à promouvoir les principes de l'école ouverte et de l'en- seignement gratuit, en vertu desquels tous les jeunes, quel que soit leur natio- nalité, leur race, leur sexe ou leur religion, jouissent du droit à l'éducation.
14.35 L'enseignement obligatoire de 10 ans a été généralisé et celui de 12 ans le sera dans un proche avenir. Parallèlement l'enseignement secondaire et supérieur a été diversifié.
14.36 C'est dans ce contexte que je voudrais dire combien la délégation roumaine est satisfaite de l'activité déployée par le Centre européen de l'Unesco pour l'en- seignement supérieur. Nous pensons en effet que les thèmes que le Centre se pro- pose d'aborder entre 1981 et 1983 permettront un renforcement de son action en faveur du développement de la coopération européenne dans le domaine de l'ensei- gnement supérieur.
14.37 La délégation roumaine appuie les propositions du Directeur général tendant à ce que la lutte contre l'analphabétisme - ce fléau qui continue de frapper d'immenses zones du globe - soit encore intensifiée.
14.38 Dans le domaine des sciences exactes et naturelles, auquel notre pays attache également une importance toute particulière, je voudrais souscrire à l'ac- tion de l'Unesco concernant l'utilisation de la science et de la technique au ser- vice de l'homme et de la société, le développement et la recherche scientifique, la formation de cadres pour la science et la technologie, l'enseignement scienti- fique et technologique général, l'interaction entre l'homme et son environnement et le transfert et l'échange d'informations. C'est dans ce contexte que la déléga- tion roumaine voudrait saluer tout particulièrement la proposition relative au lancement de huit projets majeurs régionaux destinés à favoriser le progrès de la science et de la technique dans les pays en développement.
14.39 A notre avis, il est également nécessaire que l'Unesco continue d'accorder une très grande attention aux problèmes touchant au développement, à l'environne- ment, à l'énergie, à l'informatique et à la séismologie.
14.40 Dans le secteur, tout aussi important, des sciences sociales, la délégation roumaine apprécie vivement la place nettement plus importante faite dans le pro- gramme aux activités tendant à accentuer le caractère opérationnel des sciences sociales, et notamment la contribution de celles-ci à la solution des problèmes du développement en général et de ceux auxquels sont confrontés les pays en développe- ment en particulier.
14.41 ‘Aussi, la délégation roumaine appuie-t-elle pleinement l'action de l'Organi- sation centrée sur les problèmes fondamentaux qui se posent à l'humanité tels que l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international, la paix, le désarme- ment, la promotion des droits fondamentaux de l'homme, la jeunesse et la condition de la femme.
14.42 Le problème de l'éducation et de la formation des jeunes pour la vie trouve sa place naturelle dans le cadre des préoccupations de l'Unesco. Selon notre con- ception, il est nécessaire d'orienter l'énergie, l'enthousiasme et les capacités créatrices de la jeune génération non pas vers des fins militaires et destruc- trices, mais vers des tâches propres à assurer le progrès économique, social et culturel de chaque pays.
14.43 Monsieur le Président, depuis longtemps l'attention de la communauté inter- nationale est retenue par un problème majeur de notre époque, celui du développe- ment libre et complet de la personnalité humaine.
14.44 Nous pensons que la démocratie et l'humanisme sont incompatibles avec le maintien de graves inégalités économiques, sociales et politiques entre les êtres humains. Selon nous, il est indispensable que la communauté mondiale entreprenne une action visant à garantir ä la masse des travailleurs l'exercice de ses droits sociaux vitaux et à liquider les graves anomalies sociales qui affectent gravement la condition humaine dans différents pays. En effet, le respect et l'exercice de tous les autres droits et libertés de l'homme dépendent de la manière dont est garanti le droit fondamental de chaque être humain à la vie, à la paix, à l'éduca- tion et à la culture ainsi que le droit des nations à une existence libre et indépendante.
14.45 En ce qui concerne la culture et 1'information, la délégation roumaine appuie l'action et les propositions du Directeur général tendant à ce que l'Unesco apporte une contribution accrue au développement endogène des cultures et à une meilleure connaissance réciproque entre les cultures nationales dans leur identité et originalité spécifiques, en tant que facteurs importants de la compréhension et de la paix internationales et du respect mutuel des peuples.
14.46 Nous voudrions saluer les actions proposées par le Directeur général qui visent à la démocratisation de la vie culturelle, à la stimulation d'une partici- pation active et créatrice des masses à la culture, à la conservation et à la mise en valeur du patrimoine culturel des peuples.
14.47 Dans le domaine de l'information, la délégation roumaine voudrait souligner le rôle important qui incombe à l'Unesco en ce qui concerne /l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre de l'information, en tant que partie intégrante du nouvel ordre inter- national.
14.48 Nous considérons que l'Unesco est appelée à apporter une importante contri- bution à l'action visant à aider les pays en développement à se doter de leurs propres structures et à former des cadres dans le domaine de l'information.
14.49 La Roumanie considère que l'information doit contribuer à la promotion de l'identité nationale en garantissant le respect des valeurs culturelles et artis- tiques de chaque nation, ainsi qu'à une meilleure connaissance des peuples qui assurera une confiance accrue entre ceux-ci et favorisera le progrès de la coopéra- tion internationale.
14.50 Monsieur le Président, il est évident que pour accomplir dans de bonnes conditions les tâches qui lui sont confiées, notre Organisation a besoin de moyens matériels appropriés. Tout en recommandant d'utiliser aussi efficacement que pos- sible les ressources en question, la délégation roumaine appuie donc les proposi- tions du Directeur général concernant le budget pour l'exercice 1981-1983 et vo- tera en leur faveur.
14.51 Pour terminer, je voudrais vous assurer, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, que la République socialiste de Roumanie contribuera acti- vement à l'exécution du programme qui sera adopté par la Conférence générale et continuera, d'une maniëre générale, d'apporter sa pleine contribution aux efforts de la communauté internationale en faveur de l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre éco- nomique international, de la démocratisation de la vie internationale et de la promotion de la paix et de la compréhension dans le monde entier. Je vous remercie. Ds The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the delegation of Romania and I give the floor to H.E. Mr John P. Wilson, T.D., Minister for Education of Ireland and head of the Irish delegation.
16.1 Mr WILSON (Ireland): Mr President, your excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, first of ally; I should like to ask you, Mr President, to express to the President of this assembly my warm felicitations on his election to preside over our deliberations. He is, as you know, performing his task with courtesy and efficiency, and I should like you to covey my congratulations to him.
16.2 It goes without saying that any individual statement or any single address to a plenary session of Unesco can take within its purview only a small segment of a vast horizon of benign activity - so wide are the vistas of social, economic and cultural evolution, so many and so daunting the tasks that lie between us and the beckoning but remote perimeter. Hence this is surely one of those situations where, if the wider perspective tends to confuse or perplex, detached appraisal of separ- ate elements builds up to a more reassuring and indeed more accurate concept of the whole.
16.3 If, then, there be a case for selection from these elements - and I believe there is — I shall endeavour to focus on those aspects of education, science and culture which, from the point of view of my country, seem to merit our special attention in the years ahead. And, if I commence with education, I do so not be- cause of the nature of the ministerial portfolio with which I am entrusted, nor yet because of an earlier and deeply cherished personal involvement, but because education has a special and unique function in the grand design which brings us together.
16.4 To claim this distinction for the educational process is not to depreciate the other interests of Unesco — far from it. It is merely to reiterate a proposi- tion which is affirmed time and again in the valuable drafts which we have before us - a proposition which the Director-General categorically asserts in his splendid
646    Introduction to the Draft Programme and Budget for 1981-1983, when he declares that the education programme now proposed, like the programmes for previous biennia, "draws its inspiration from the principles embodied in Unesco's Constitution, and reflects the ethical and universal mission which the Constitution assigns to the Organization".
16.5 And if we are agreed - and I think we are - that the essence of Unesco can be expressed in one word: development, then the current Medium-Term Plan puts the situation squarely (page 59). "The extension and improvement of education and the installation of facilities for scientific activity ... are unreservedly acknowledged as integral parts of the development process itself, not because they are simply 'sectors', among others, of social life but because they are fundamental factors in the process as a whole."
16.6 There is, perhaps, nothing totally new in this. It was, after all, the Greek, Anaxagoras, who first enunciated the doctrine that Nous - Understanding generally, or Reason - governed the world, thereby, incidentally, earning himself from Aristotle the heady compliment that he was as a sober man among the drunken. Even if education were taken to mean nothing more than the mere dissemination of knowl- edge, it would still have a significance beyond measure. "Everything" says Professor Huxley "in psycho-social evolution which can properly be called advance, or progress, or improvement is due directly or indirectly to the increase or im= provement of knowledge".
16.7 But both documents stress a nobler and more ample purpose, that of "complete fulfilment". "The real problem" - I quote from the Introduction to the Medium- Term Plan - "is to know in what direction growth lies, what are its final aims, how is man to find self-fulfilment in the process".
16.8 We need no warning, at this point, against the illusion of the idealistic philosophers that self-realization can be achieved through intellectual insight alone, or against the Platonic fallacy that if people know the good, they are then virtuous. Things do not happen that way. And modern psychology is, perhaps, nearer the mark when, starting with the assumption that, in man, the impetus towards self- realization is a primal urge every whit as powerful and as deeply rooted as those instincts which derive from the physical side of his nature, it goes on to assert that man's interaction with other people and with the environment constitutes what has been described as the psycho-social dynamic of this realization; and that, therefore, in the words of one author, "to accept responsibility for others as well as for oneself is a prime condition of human fulfilment". And if, Mr Presi- dent, one tends to linger over those words - "responsibility for others as well as for oneself" - it is, I submit, because they strike a chord that is attuned to the heartbeat of this Organization, Unesco.
16.9 I note that the Preamble to Unesco's Constitution opens with the declara- tion that, since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed. I know that this statement has been criti- cized on the score of opacity and frothiness. But there is this to consider. Wars have been fought throughout history, for many diverse reasons - and not least to serve the selfish purposes of territorial or economic aggrandizement or of personal or dynastic ambitions. Nevertheless, it seems probable that, if the disaster of world conflict should strike again, its outbreak will be motivated not so much by greed or acquisitiveness, as by the fears and suspicions which have their origin in a sheer lack of understanding. This pernicious defect of understanding can be replaced by a political and social awareness and a generous insight which only edu- cation can generate: tout comprendre c'est tout pardonner. No praise can be too high for the invaluable work being done in this direction by the Joint United Nations Information Committee (JUNIC) and its member agencies. Nevertheless I can- not but feel that the time has come to intensify the emphasis on the humanizing, the liberalizing and the internationalizing of school curricula everywhere, and on the widespread publicizing of specific procedures with this purpose in view. What is aimed at is the educational concept of an all-subsuming global interrelatedness, an energetic and ubiquitous interplay of ideas, apperceptions, philosophies, made possible through a communication syndrome the discussion of which will occupy an important place in the deliberations of this General Conference session.
16.10 In this connection, I should like to avail myself of the opportunity to refer to the two reports in the question of international communications which the Director-General has placed before the Conference. These reports - on the findings of the MacBride Commission and on the proposed International Programme for the Development of Communication - are helpful and thought-provoking. They will nourish our discussions.
16.11 The report of the MacBride Commission - the International Commission for the Study of Communication Problems - has many insights and many creative proposals. The critique which it offers of international media relationships is stimulating
647    and wide-ranging. No doubt each delegation here would have wished for more or less emphasis on this or that aspect of the multi-faceted question which the Commission was asked to review. We have our varying preoccupations, our different perspec- tives. During the coming weeks we shall have ample opportunity to add, if we can, to the wisdom of Mr MacBride and his colleagues.
16.12 Today, I would simply suggest that delegates approach the debate in the same open and objective spirit as the Commission itself. There is a problem per- taining to the free and balanced flow of information in the world. That fact, if it was ever in any real doubt, has been clearly established by the Commission. But the Commission does not preted to have said the last word or to have found any instant global prescriptions. The report clearly states: "... it would be both impossible and undesirable to lay down any universally binding rules ... no single communication system could be devised that could be introduced in developed and developing, or in capitalist and socialist countries ...". Let us follow the Com- mission's example of modesty and objectivity. Let us attempt a genuine dialogue, an exercise in imagination, an effort of empathy. In a word, let us communicate.
16.13 It can be difficult for countries which have not themselves experienced colonization to understand the depth of the psychic wounds caused by cultural invasion which leave lasting scars long after formal independence has been achieved. Our task, in part, as a community of independent nations, is to try to heal those wounds, to erase those scars.
16.14 Countries which have had a long, imperial presence throughout the world or societies which are rich in the elaborate resources of communication, both "hard- ware" and "soft-ware", can usually be confident that the image of themselves which is projected on to international consciousness corresponds to a considerable extent with their own self-image. Their rayonnement - in the French idiom - goes out to the world with a certain éclat, a definite degree of precision. This is a satis- factory situation for those countries.
16.15 Not so satisfactory, however, is the position of those countries which are seen abroad through lenses which are not home-made, whose image is blurred, out of focus and often downright distorted: refracted through a prism of post-colonial prejudice.
16.16 It is not surprising that the developing countries, the ex-colonies rep- resented in this Organization, should be particularly sensitive to the defects of what has been called the free-market system of information. It is, after all, this system with which they are familiar, perhaps all too familiar. It is through the colonial operation of this system that they have so often seen their identity dis- torted and their self-image caricatured. It can be difficult for developing coun- tries fully to credit the disinterest of those who champion the freedom of a press which can at times descend to crude sensationalism and grotesque exaggeration, at the expense of former colonies.
16.17 We in Ireland can readily understand these feelings. They are part of our own experience. Nevertheless, I believe it would be a tragic mistake, in legit- imate recoil from the selective or prejudical operation of the freé press in the international domain, to turn to a system of exclusive, centralized state control of the media. We should not forget that there are peoples who have no voice in the fora of the United Nations and who live under regimes where the media are a simple instrument of the state, who envy us here our right to criticize the defects and abuses of the free press.
16.18 Let us not administer a cure which would be worse than the disease. Let us not throw out the baby with the bath water. The Commission clearly rejects this course when it speaks of the necessity to abolish political censorship and stres- ses that "free access to news sources is an indispensable requirement for accurate, faithful and balanced reporting".
16.19 I have concentrated in my remarks on the Director-General's report on the work of the MacBride Commission because it relates to new material. Delegations are familiar with the International Programme for Communication Development, since agreement on it was reached at the Conference of last April. The two reports, taken together, provide a broad base for constructive action and reform.
16.20 We want to get communities to know each other, to communicate with each other. But this communication, to be of any value, must finally include debate on the ultimate issues of life, and it is precisely the approach to these ultimate issues which shapes the various cultures. Through their cultures, then, must peoples speak to peoples? Some cultures are more advanced than others - more sophisticated, more serene, more influential. But that does not mean that they are, therefore, intrinsically more valuable, since each culture enshrines the optimum intellectual, ethical and aesthetic heritage of the community which lives within it. And it is surely a basic tenet of Unesco faith that no one community
648    is less valuable than another. Hence the aspiration, articulated in the Medium- Term Plan for 1977-1982, to a vigorous and open affirmation of individual and col- lective cultural identities and to the mutual appreciation of cultures.
16.21 Such appreciation will not come without scrutiny and reflection, and Unesco can pride itself on what has already been achieved by way of fostering regional studies of Arab, Slav, Oceanic and other cultures. The encouragement of greater knowledge of other cultures must also contribute to greater understanding among mankind and must be a part of any new international economic order. By continuing to discharge its responsibilities in the economic field, Unesco can make a signifi- cant contribution to the creation of a new international economic order.
16.22 I seize at this point the opportunity to mention, on behalf of the Irish delegation, our draft amendment to the draft programme and budget to be considered by the General Conference, the terms of which would authorize the Director-General to initiate a programme of studies into various aspects, both organizational and cultural, of the cultures of the Celtic peoples. We think that such a pro- gramme, by identifying and, so to speak, mapping another significant area of cul- tural research, would contribute a great deal to the general understanding of the interdependence and complementarity of all cultures, and so add a link to the golden chain of shared heritages which binds us all together.
16.23 When dealing with cultures, Unesco contemplates phenomena of slow growth and of gradual, almost imperceptible, maturation. Not so when it turns its eyes to science; here developments are characterized by meteoric speed and brightness - so much so as almost dazzle and bewilder us. Satellite engineering, micropro- cessing, digitalized telecommunication - each was a marvel in its own right. When the three prodigies converged, fused and imploded, the process signalled the birth of the micro-electronic era, with incalculable consequences for mankind.
16.24 Nobody can predict the outer limits of this development. There are those who visualize a complete spectrum of social and democratic reforms in a world sys- tem based on rational planning. It is a worthy and, I suppose, attainable long- range objective. At a more specifically educational level I believe that Unesco is in an ideal position to investigate on a truly worldwide basis the dimensions of an educational programme, both in terms of content and methodology, for young people up to the age of sixteen which will best equip them to meet the challenge of rapid and increasing technological change, and I would venture to suggest that Unesco should examine the most effective means available to it of elaborating such a course.
16.25 In the interim period, science, beset by many onerous and urgent problems - need I mention energy? - in the meantime, I repeat, science will also be pre- occupied with the processes involved in its own transition, with the charting of its own courses, with the recruitment and training of its own personnel and with the selection of outlets for its unique potential. To begin with, each country will need to develop an efficient telecommunications system. Here there will be a choice of paths to follow. In this connection I should like to mention a recent publication - issued entirely on its own initiative - by our National Board of Science and Technology in Dublin, and entitled "Telecommunications and Industrial Development". This is a wide-ranging and informative study designed to afford "a rational basis for choosing an optimal mix of telecommunications development, industrial development and technology transfer" over the years ahead. We think this is a useful contribution in an important area of decision-making.
16.26 There is another consideration. It is a truism to say that, hitherto, in the conduct of human affairs, wealth has been distributed, equitably or otherwise, through work. But the same has also been true of something more valuable and in shorter supply than wealth, namely time itself, the availability and expenditure of which have been determined by the necessities and the circumstances of produc- tive employment. That situation is rapidly coming to an end. Automation, to the extent that it dispenses with manpower, also attenuates industry's claim on man's time. Therefore leisure becomes an ever more significant element in the human condition, something that must be prepared for in the same way as people are wont to prepare for a profession or vocation. Leisure abides by its own skills, its own competences. Pasi passu, then with advances in scientific training, comes the need for a purposeful education for leisure — an education which will, I feel, dis- play, by and large, the characteristic features ascribed by the Medium-Term Plan to adult education,' namely spontaneity, diversity and the voluntary participation of those involved. We should remember that ancient Greek word for leisure, our very own word for schools; their purposes now converge.
16.27 While these considerations must constantly exercise our minds, our per- ception of future economic development must be sharpened by the recognition of the fact that even in 1980 millions of our fellow human beings in the Third World live at bare subsistence level, and that their basic human needs for adequate food,    health care, housing, education and employment are not met. It is even sadder to note that for many the combination of malnutrition, illiteracy, disease, unemploy- ment and underemployment closes the avenues of escape from their plight. While the principal aim of an international economic order must be the improvement of the economic situation of all the world's peoples, such an improvement must be ac- companied by greater opportunities for access to education, on which so much will depend, greater opportunities for improved communications between countries, both in the fields of information and transport, and greater opportunities for the development of a scientific knowledge which can be shared by all.
16.28 Mention of the Medium-Term Plan evokes recollections of the welcome with which this project was received at Nairobi in 1976. The acclaim was justified in the event. The Plan, with some adjustments, is still in operation, and indications of its effectiveness are sufficiently encouraging to warrant the preparation of a second similar document - a task in which, I believe, the Member States of the European region are actively involved. The report on the recent meeting of the Secretaries-General of the National Commissions of this region reflects the con- sensus opinion that the new Plan should be interdisciplinary and intersectoral in character; this is entirely consonant with Unesco's commitment to the integrated development of mankind.
16.29 No doubt the forthcoming Plan will incorporate some new features; here per- haps, one or two minor suggestions may not come amiss. To begin with, I should like to enter a plea for increased emphasis on the evaluative process. This is not to suggest that the idea of evaluation was not implicit in the original Plan; indeed, its formulation by objectives bespeaks evaluative intent. What I would hope for this time, however, is a more explicit commitment to the exercise.
16.30 In turn, it may well appear that the rigours of such evaluation postulate a higher level of ‘specificity in the statement of objectives, if only to offset the consideration that the quantitative measurement of developments largely con- cerned with the quality of life is going to prove an awkward process at best. At all events, it may be thought that there is something to be said for the establish- ment of an order of priority among objectives - bearing in mind, of course, the fact that correspondence between the priorities of different regions may be less than total. However, mere acceptance of the principle that objectives can indeed be ranked in order of importance may well lead to fruitful concentration on those areas of endeavour which are at once the most urgent and the most amenable to intervention.
16.31 Finally, a word on the draft resolutions proposed by the Director-General, which constitute the basis of our deliberations. In their totality these proposals prescribe for not just one, but for over 150 countries, and they do so with a tho- roughness and perspicacity which attest to the dedication of the Director-General, his staff and advisers as well as the awareness, the compassion, and the questing solicitude which inform their vision. May I say here that having listened to fellow delegates paying tribute to the Director-General on the occasion of his re- election, I should myself like to a take a slightly different stand, and congratu- late the delegates on having re-elected him. The fact that we have done so is a credit to ourselves, because it indicates that we are aware of his ability and - from experience - familiar with competence. His qualities of heart and mind warrant the hope that some day, still in the future, the inheritors of our purpose here will experience a pleasure not vouchsafed to us - that of posing, with а con- fidence born of proud achievement, a question which has withstood the test of time: "What place under the sun has not benefited to the full from our endeavour?" Quae regio in terris nostri non plena laboris? Thank you, Mr President.
17.1 ~The PRESIDENT: I thank the head of the Irish delegation.
17.2 Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, we have already exhausted the time allotted to us for the meeting this afternoon, but before adjourning I wish to join the earlier speakers in expressing our congratulations to the President on his election and to our Director-General on his re-election. We wish both of them every success in their respective assignments.
17.3 We shall meet again tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock. The meeting stands adjourned. The meeting rose at 5.45 p.m. La séance est levée a 17 h.45 Se levanta la sesión a las 17.45 Заседание закрывается B 17.45 ‎ءاسم del Ou ‎ىفةسلجلاتعفر zo