Fourth plenary meeting
24 November 1982 at 3.15 p.m.  President: Mr MARGAN (Yougoslavie)  Quatrième séance plénière
24 novembre 1982 à 15 h.15  Président : M. MARGAN (Yougoslavie)  Cuarta sesiôn plenaria
1. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can start our afternoon's work and I would like, before  continuing our discussion of the Draft Medium-Term Plan, to invite the Chairman of the  Credentials Committee to submit his second supplementary report.
2,1 Mr ARYAL (Nepal), Chairman of the Credentials Committee:  Mr President, in accordance with the authorization given to me by the Committee at its  first meeting, held on 23 November 1982, I have the honour to submit to the General Conference  the following information.
2.2 Since 1 made my first report, credentials in due form have been received from Colombia,  Comoros, Guatemala, Iran, Ireland, Madagascar, Mauritania, Netherlands, Portugal and United  Republic of Tanzania. In accordance with the authorization given to me by the Committee, I  propose to the General Conference that the delegations of these Member States be fully admitted  to take part in the work of the fourth extraordinary session of the General Conference.
2.3 Provisional credentials have been received from a number of Member States since the first  meeting of the Committee. They are: Albania, Cape Verde, Equatorial Guinea, Grenada, Guinea,  Honduras, Japan, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka and Trinidad and Tobago. In accordance  with the authorization given to me by the Committee, I propose to the General Conference that,  subject to later presentation of credentials in due form, the delegations of these Member States  be allowed to take part in the work of the fourth extraordinary session of the General  Conference.
2.4 Mr President, since I made my first report, J have received in my capacity as the Chairman  of the Credentials Committee two communications, respectively from the Heads of the Delegations  of the German Democratic Republic and of the Federal Republic of Germany.
2.5 The communication from the delegation of the German Democratic Republic, which is  dated 23 November 1982, reads as follows:  'Sir,  The delegation of the German Democratic Republic has just learned that Professor  von Simson who is domiciled in West Berlin is member of the delegation of the Federal  Republic of Germany to the fourth extraordinary session of the General Conference of  Unesco.  In this regard, the delegation of the German Democratic Republic to the twenty-first  session of the General Conference expressed in a letter addressed to you (see Proceedings  of the twenty-first session of the General Conference, page 344, paragraph 14.5) its  position which has not changed and which I have the honour to state again:  The delegation of the German Democratic Republic supports the statement made by  the delegation of the USSR. It is likewise of the opinion that, in accordance with the  quadripartite agreement of 3 September 1971, persons domiciled in West Berlin may  participate in international exchanges together with participants from the Federal  Republic of Germany, only on condition that no questions of status and security are  involved. Accordingly, persons domiciled in West Berlin may not be designated as  members of delegations representing the state or Government of the Federal Republic  of Germany. The inclusion of Professor Simson in the delegation to the conference is  therefore illegal.  Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my high consideration.  (signed) Peter Florin  Head of Delegation’
2.6 The communication from the delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany, which is also  dated 23 November 1982, reads as follows:  'Mr Chairman,  I have the honour to refer to the statement by the distinguished delegates of  Bulgaria and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in the Credentials Committee  concerning a member of the delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany with residence  in Berlin.  I wish to state that my government shares the position set out by the distinguished  delegate of the United States in the Credentials Committee as well as by the distinguished  delegate of the United Kingdom in the plenary, both speaking on behalf of the Three  Powers.  I regret the attempts of the distinguished delegates of Bulgaria and the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics to interfere with the appointment of a member of the delegation  of the Federal Republic of Germany to this Conference.  It is, as a matter of principle, for every member country alone to decide which  institutions or persons it wishes to involve in its contributions to the work of this  Organization.  May I mention for your information that the delegation member concerned, Professor  von Simson, is President of the German National Commission for Unesco.  May I ask you, Mr Chairman, to have this letter circulated to all members of the  Credentials Committee.  Please accept, Mr Chairman, the assurances of my highest consideration.  (signed) Lothar Lahn'
2.7 Mr President, it will be observed that the question evoked by the two communications was,  in its material particulars, the subject of statements made at this General Conference during the  persentation yesterday of the report of the Credentials Committee. For this reason, and bearing  in mind the fact that my present report, including the two communications which have just been  read out, will appear in full in the verbatim records of this General Conference, my  recommendation, as Chairman of the Credentials Committee, is that the Conference should take  note of the communications concerned.
2.8 Thank you, Mr Chairman.
3.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Aryal. Ladies and gentlemen, are you willing to accept the  second supplementary report of the Chairman of the Credentials Committee? I see no objection.
3.2 The report is acopted.
3.3 The distinguished delegate of Japan has asked for the floor.
4.1 Mr YAMAGUCHI (Japan):  Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. According to the report of the  Chairman of the Credentials Committee, Japan has only submitted provisional credentials, This  surprises me very much.
4.2 We presented our credentials in due form, by proper channels, last Friday, but I have  since learned that they have been mislaid. We have asked the Secretariat to investigate this  matter as soon as possible, but I understand that at this stage our credentials have not yet  been found. I hope that they will be found as soon as possible, and that our country will be  fully admitted as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr President.
5. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The Director-General has asked for the floor.
6. Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL. -  Je voudrais dire que je ne peux pas accepter le point de vue exprimé par le délégué du Japon.  Aucun pouvoir n'a été égaré par qui que ce soit. Je voudrais donc savoir à qui ont été remis les  pouvoirs de la délégation japonaise.
7. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. Could the distinguished delegate of Japan reply to the question by  the Director-General?
8. Mr YAMAGUCHI (Japan):  We presented our credentials through the normal channel. I myself wrote a letter to you,  Mr Director-General, which was carried to you by messenger from my office last Friday.
9. The PRESIDENT:  The Director-General will speak again.
10. Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL. -  Monsieur le Président, si les pouvoirs de la délégation japonaise ont été établis et envoyés  et qu'ils ne sont pas entre les mains du Secrétariat, il ne faut pas en conclure qu'ils ont été  égarés par le Secrétariat. Je doute en effet que le Secrétariat puisse égarer des pouvoirs car il  prend les précautions nécessaires pour que tous les pouvoirs envoyés soient reçus et enregistrés  comme il le faut. En tout cas, nous allons procéder à une enquête pour déterminer où les pou-  voirs du Japon ont pu être égarés.
11. The PRESIDENT:  Thank yo very much. We shall find out what really happened, and try to settle the  matter as soon a. possible.  GENERAL DEBATE ON THE DRAFT MEDIUM-TERM PLAN FOR 1984-1989 (continued)  DEBAT GENERAI SUR LE PROJET DE PLAN A MOYEN TERME POUR 1984-1989 (suite)  DEBATE GENERAL SOBRE EL PROJECTO DE PLAN A PLAZO MEDIO POR 1984-1989  (continuacién)  OBIIAST JIMCKYCCHST HO NPOEKTY CPEJIHECPOUHOI'O IJIAHA HA 1984-1989 T'OTkl (nponomkeHue,  (als) 19A9 — JAAE 3s ld Jo YU) dh gue dhs! Esybe) Bola GAL el
1984 — 1989 Æ Mf REF —ALEHFIR ( 5)
12. The PRESIDENT: 20  Now I think we can proceed with the general debate. The first speaker on my list is H.E.  Mr Daoed Joesoef, Minister of Education and Culture, Head of the Delegation of Indonesia. He  has the floor.
13.1 Mr JOESOEF (Indonesia):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of  the Indonesian delegation I have pleasure in congratulating you, Mr President, on your election.  We are sure that your competence, experience, and personal devotion to this important and vital  domain of human endeavour will guarantee the success of this fourth extraordinary session of the  General Conference.
13.2 May I also take this opportunity to congratulate the Director-General of Unesco and the  Unesco Secretariat on the excellent arrangements they have made and on their hard work in  preparing the Draft Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989, and to express our thanks for the  hospitality extended to the members of all the delegations, which will no doubt ensure fruitful  deliberations.
13.3 Mr President, Indonesia wishes to give its views on some of the problems described in the  recommendations of the Draft Medium-Term Plan, specifically those related to education, culture,  science and technology, youth, the role of women, communication and information. I should like  to stress in the first place that Indonesia considers culture very important indeed. This may be  seen from our Constitution, which was established in 1945 when Independence was gained, in  which one special article is devoted to culture and its development. In fact, for Indonesia,  culture lies at the basis of development in general. Indonesia therefore endorses the cultural  approach to development, acknowledging that culture produces the background as well as the  context in which all human activities interact.
13.4 With this philosophy in mind, I should like to add that education should be seen as part of  culture. For Indonesia, the ultimate aim of education is therefore to form a man of culture, the  all-round individual and 'whole man', secure in his place as a human being and as a member of  his community, conscious also of his duties icwards his nation as well as towards the human  race. The notion, therefore, of being 'educated' has become contingently but firmly associated  with knowledge and understanding. 'Education for all! is therefore an axiom Indonesia also  supports. For the developing countries, it should indeed be kept in mind that this idea is  closely linked with the need to develop national as well as regional plans in which the elimination
80   of illiteracy on a substantial scale should be foreseen by the year 2000. For only then can  programmes such as the APEID (Asian Programme of Educational Innovation for Development),  higher education and development, educational planning, administration and facilities, literacy  and adult education, and population education programmes be implemented with the greatest  chance of success. Indonesia takes part in all these programmes.
13.5 With regard to the cultural programmes outlined in Chapter IX, allow me to draw attention  again to the special article on culture in our Constitution which I have already mentioned. In the  explanation of this article, the development of culture is specified as concerning: the  preservation of the highlights of the national cultural heritage; the development of culture as  based on traditional elements; creative innovation; and advantageous use of foreign influence. As  may be seen, this corresponds to Unesco's programme on the cultural heritage, development,  creativity and intercultural rzlations, and anticipated this programme by several years.
13.5 The Indonesian Coat of Arms with its inscription Bhinneka Tunggal Ika (Unity in  Diversity), taken from an old Javanese manuscript of the eleventh century, subscribes, as it  were, to the view advanced in the Draft Medium-Term Plan that culture consists on one side of  universal oneness and on the other of diversity in content and forms. Oneness and diversity in  the Indonesian context applies to the basic similarity of Indonesia's provincial cultures and at the  same time of their diversity as a result of historical development. Within this context, the  Indonesian policy in cultural development is not to suppress the diversity of its culture for the  sake of unity, as may perhaps be expected. In fact, through diversity, basic unity is enhanced  and given the variety of colour which has made Indonesia's culture so interesting and dynamic.
13.7 I may say that in the Draft Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989, Chapter XI, 'Culture and the  future’, conforms in its pattern with Indonesia's national policy on culture. I should like to  stress here, however, that in our multinational and multilateral relations, the bilateral and  regional approach should not be disregarded. More specifically, with regard to the programmes  set out in this chapter, I would suggest that more emphasis be laid on the fact that the ultimate  goal is to create the socio-cultural conditions in which the individual may develop his optimal  potential so as to be able to cope with conditions involving both himself and the community he  lives in as a whole.
13.8 Mr President, speaking of education and its cultural background, permit me to touch on  the subject of science and technology, which creates problems in the national development of the  developing countries, such as Indonesia, with respect to the quality of human resources. To  improve this, special attention should be paid to educational programmes, equity in income and  development programmes providing more opportunities. In this respect, the role of research and  of science and technology is very important. With this consideration projected against the  background of the broad framework of our national goals and development objectives, we are  pursuing the objectives of increasing our national capability and implementing the transfer of  technology.
13.9 And, in view of the Indonesian geographical situation as an archipelago, it is imperative to  exert the utmost efforts in developing its ocean resources. Therefore, we in Indonesia stress the  importance of environmental studies. This means improving the quality as well as the quantity of  our research workers and strengthening research and development facilities, including all the  supporting units. In 1981, Indonesia's research and development budget was a mere 0.7 per cent  of our gross domestic product. We will strive towards a research and development expenditure of  around 1 per cent of our GDP, In order to absorb that 1 per cent of our GDP, our research  facilities and our research manpower have to be improved considerably.
13.10 Unesco plays a significant role in improving the competence of researchers in developing  countries through training and co-operation in research activities, and through specialized  education programmes in the field of research and technology set up by the developing coun-  tries. This may have a significant impact upon improving understanding and close co-operation in  the development of science and technology in the service of mankind.
13.11 In connection with Unesco, the establishment of an International Institute of Space  Sciences and Electronics involving the network concept, and the installation of a GERT (Giant  Equatorial Radio Telescope) in West Sumatra, are worthy of mention, as well as is the  implementation of Unesco programmes such as those based on the recommendations of the 1982  CASTASIA II Conference to assist developing countries in increasing their competence in  research and technology. 1 should therefore like to take this opportunity to request the  Director-General of Unesco to take the necessary steps to launch the GERT Project, and it is  only appropriate to express our gratitude for the trust shown in Indonesia in such an important  project.
13.12 Mr President, youth problems are faced by all nations in the world. Efforts to cope with  these problems have long been made, by both the developed and the developing countries. In  the last decade, Unesco has organized several seminars, discussions, meetings and other  activities in connection with youth problems. These activities have provided excellent  opportunities » learn about one another's problems and the means of overcoming or preventing  them. In Indonesia, youth affairs are given high priority as is evidenced by the nomination of a
81   »  junior Minister for Youth Affairs. We therefore believe in the importance of the United Nations  proclaiming a special year, 1985, as International Youth Year with the theme 'Participation,  Development and Peace’.
13.13 Having mentioned the problems of youth, we cannot possibly ignore the problems of the  status of women, without whom youth could not possibly exist. The role and status of women  remain a problem, discrimination against the female sex being a fact in many areas of ihis world.  As is often mentioned, the laws of modern states have not always proved to be adequate in  preventing discrimination. It more often happens that the specific cultural setting, especially  with regard to women's socially structured and determined role in the community, their position  within the family circle (be this the nuclear or the extended family) and vis-a-vis their kindred,  is decisive. It is obvious that the study of these cultural settings, and more specifically of  traditional values, is important, as is the dissemination of the findings. In this way, traditional  elements supporting and conducive to efforts to raise the status of women may be used produc-  tively. At the same time, programmes of education and the participation of women in development  as well as national, regional and international programmes should be enhanced. I may say that  Indonesia supports Unesco's efforts in this field.
13.14 Mr President, interaction between human beings would be unthinkable without  communication and information. Communication between peoples and cultures with the discoveries  of science and technology which enable man to cross time and space at a speed unthinkable to  most of us has created and will further create new dimensions in the life of human societies.  Indonesia belicves that communication and information as a cultural force, which also transmit the  cultural values and identity of every nation, deserve our earnest attention with a view to  developing them in such a way that services and support to the overall development plans of  Unesco's Mewber States may be provided.
13.15 I wish in this connection to underline Unesco's Major Programme on 'Communication in tre  service of man', which rightly aims at bringing about a more equitable situation regarding  communication and the media at the national as well as the international level. Indonesia offers  Unesco full collaboration in its efforts aimed at stimulating and supporting worldwide  communication development, particularly with regard to developing countries, and at promoting a  free flow and a wider and better balanced dissemination of information' conducive to the  promotion of a new world information and communication order.
13.16 Finally, Mr President. I should like to stress that the Draft Medium-Term Plan is not  contrary to our own ongoing as well as planned development efforts. Permit me, however, to  suggest that more attention should be paid to the improvement of planning, administration and  management in general since these are important as underlying factors in securing success.  Indonesia acknowledges the enormous growth of Unesco's activities and programmes since its  establishment which ic indeed on a par with the expanding desires of its Member States.  Indonesia therefore fully understands Unesco's need to increase its budget. An adequate budget  is a first requirement for Unesco to carry out its growing programmes correctly. Nevertheless,  the question may be raised as to whether, in the implemer tation of these programmes, Member  States have been involved to the extent of moving towards the major objective of raising nations  and peoples to self-sufficiency and thus reducing dependency.
13.17 It is therefore my firm belief that the implementation of Unesco's programmes can be  entrusted to member countries, through their public as well as national private agencies,  including national experts whose number is becoming more and more significant. Therefore, the  employment of Unesco staff can be reduced to a minimum, as well as the provision of funds that  goes with it. In short, problems and issues which are the responsibility of Unesco need not be  dealt with by Unesco itself, but could be implemented by member countries since the competence  of their experts has considerably increased. It is this only natural that greater financial  assistance should be granted to the implementing member countries. Mr President, ladies and  gentlemen, I thank you for your attention.
14. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Indonesia. I give the floor to H.E. Mr Bin Hamad  Al-Thani, Minister of Education, Chairman of the Qatar National Commission for Unesco, Head of  the Delegation of Qatar.
4   &_——w loi 31 pl ail on 9e BRE V1 gp gate 6 gas ploly pdlall pene le Glad 5 005 Lo gl lost  Oe SV el jie wo gb ge LS 9 paJLL Jos ti plac) say wp pl Ces ged ideal Lad ab dl papal  com pes LS Li 9 1 yo clade 158 pol dey oleae pe ASS 5 Lo Jody + peu aS) oe prions wma ELA SN  ida] GI +5 JL - pl ad) delbadl 75 Led Mote HG LES ain pd SI a Lagon pÉoLof Mile JIL  alpine JS 9 Asli olSliaadl cle (555 LaS + 33030 gl das, ool go Gomis *Lusg JLibl 50 Jyadl  wb vb pany yrediqes *Lybl 5 pueden go clad ll GYT Jnl 5 + noha lid] gal 5S 09 Lo ghao)i SI pe  Gas Le doles gatandl CJUanss an Las (dl 551 olen, ST Linobiso plata) ped adn $31 ofl 201 pei  + yrVäinotl ge dled as Gls Gio Ge pl pe GMb Blin LS Too yo olay  EI peg leaded] Whentlge tool Wanna) dealt lst 1 ch lll Gl sold! Lf Yo  v——— ale Lolçyuls dodmiedl al 195 ob plat] pS ashe of we ud) wl lal JS pi, wg TN 9 Judd  past Jotl jul 655 Laos sol J wld) ail 2B Ge an Vap 1535 + placdiGaisy edladl plu) Fol ana  « as 54Le MS. 551 509 Ses dll NS poled als) onde 5 Ll Las. Loan od wl JE ETES Geol all  + A LS MI el, leedl 5 LS LUN sag) Tas pas pals Jos 51551 Gea ade adadl  r——obaadl HL dle 8 JA pa Le jadi + glelSie glare pdt 5 Go mdl ty salad uf YoY  Ll aka, Lo F062 8 pdadl go gts + pal) GSNS Wb] Geis Lo jade eliog 655 aay, oS Log,
6 aan OI Sef gt dl pe Usd 5 ol 5,819 Bal GE put ge of ls Gl GSM 8 leds dl lama  pr Se annddl HL olesd oad 5 (plac) petaadl Open de pu le SLAM dj ad JU psa, CLE  «pl 9 detlabdl gel Glaluadt 5 AN    bobo Lyle 5 80e podall y BSLEST 5 a pul) Basar Bones godes Los ail O08), Gent ST AN YoY  gl deblioll sam 50459 + (Sawn ) pylatl y dSLEST pnt) odudl debe dl mye Lede! angel  hod) SLES peng edad! condi 9 BLES 9 AIN Goole 9 Flas Jaodl po alan] yes  IL Sag dl geal lied) ede oly + Aro M M pod OWL 5 radio ld dasa! alas  + pydatl y Balan 9 de nl wile 155 daul gol md ge Lad Las Liason ALSLSI debit! sin me  bobiodl yo IS 91 Bale go 3Selgdl one pe ptlEJl golendl Lal Lie af oslo) LeS NogNE  od Eyed] Joab) Ge EI GS 981 cafe Leda dl BSH send sal Gl Glas nga, ody Yolo  pris Gol wiley hedl boson 08 GP LAS, A JLns or etl G3 ge ad 1550 da gadl dias pe das) SSII ls  oan Lo Gba Jal go gl G3 JS les JI So Le peel padl Lisdle Gla pent SN a Yo  vrslsolly clawed) 5 tS Jeudi Lio clous 3,008 Lede BLE Le) Gd phue dls «paling pda ge Alas  FISH Goin Jal go Jerld Lax pSoeal gl aly ge $l olSedl 13a jolil Gf Jos oly + Less LS,  ph y + pl Godoy plac! od pStlacl 9 FH GES pS) Leno, Liu de doy aed! dhall Lessnoës oll  + AUS my alll des,y ps
(15.1) M. AL-THANI (Qatar). - (Traduit de l'arabe.)  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Messieurs les chefs et membres des délégations, je vous adresse le salut de  l'Islam ; le salut de l'Islam c'est la paix, cette paix dont notre rnonde a plus besoin que jamais aujour-  d'hui ; que la paix et la bénédiction de Dieu soient avec vous.
(15.2) Permettez-moi, au nom de la délégation de l'Etat du Qatar et en mon nom propre, de présenter  à M. Ivo Margan mes voeux les plus sincères de succès dans la direction des travaux de cette session  extraordinaire de la Conférence générale. Puisse ce succès être aussi grand que celui avec lequel il a  dirigé les travaux de la vingt et unième session. Quant 2 nous, nous sommes convaincus que grâce à sa  sagesse et à sa grande expérience, cette session atteindra les objectifs qui lui sont assignés.
(15.3) Permettez-moi aussi d'exprimer toute ma gratitude au Directeur général, M. Amadou-Mahtar  M'Bow, et à ses collaborateurs pour l'excellente préparation du document soumis à cette Conférence,  qui porte sur le projet du second Plan à moyen terme.
(15.4) Je voudrais égaler :ent remercier M. le Président du Conseil exécutif et les membres de ce  Conseil du travail assidu et des efforts qu'ils ont fnuriis pour l'élaboration du document aui fait l'objet  des travaux de la présente session extraordinaire, ainsi que de l'objectiviré qui a présidé à la préparation  du Projet de plan à moyen terme.
(15.5) Messieurs, l'objectif principal de cette session extraordinaire est d'étudier le Projet de plen à  moyen terme de l'Unesco. Mon intervention sera donc axée sur les idées contenues dans ce document et  sur les réflexions qu'elles inspirent à la délégation du Qatar. Nos remarques seront brèves et concises.  En premier lieu, nous constatons que le Projet de plan est dans une très large mesure conforme aux  directives formulées par la Conférence générale à sa vingt et unième session,dans sa résolution 100, de  sorte que le dccument que nous avons entre les mains est complet et bien structuré. En effet, le Projet  de plan proposé s'inscrit dans le cadre que les États membres ont assigné à l'action de l'Unesco en vue  de résoudre les problèmes et de relever les défis qui se posent à notre monde. Dans le cadre de ces  missions, le Projet a défini treize grands programmes dont la mise en oeuvre doit permettre de réaliser  les objectifs assignés au Plan. En second lieu, parmi les problèmes les plus importants, auxquels est  confronté le monde, et en particulier le monde en développement, figurent ceux du développement et de  la paix, Il y a longtemps déjà que le Tiers Monde est confronté au problème du développement, du fait  des énormes disparités qui existent entre les pays industrialisés et les pays en développement et qui se  manifestent dans tous les domaines de la vie, y compris ceux de l'éducation, de la culture et de la science.  Le Projet de plan présente une analyse exhaustive de ce problème, définit une stratégie fondée sur des  études et des recherches et propose enfin des programmes qui doivent directement contribuer à résoudre  ce problème et qui relèvent du domaine de compétence de l'Unesco, Education et science sont en effet doux  facteurs essentiels du développement. La multiplication des efforts en matière de recherche et de forma-  tion scientifique et technique revêt à cet égard une importance capitale et même vitale. Enfin, la générali-  sation et l'amélioration de l'enseignement ainsi que son adaptation aux besoins de la société sont indis-  pensables au progrès économique et social et elles donnent tout son sens à la notion d'enseignement en  tant que développement des ressources humaines.
(15.6) De même, le Projet de plan offre une analyse globale et objective de la question du nouvel ordre  économique international, examinant les contraintes imposées aux pays du Tiers Monde qui contribuent  directement à aggraver leur retard. Aussi voudrions-nous à notre tour souligner l'importance de la  Déclaration adoptée en 1974 par l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies concernant l'instauration d'un  nouvel ordre économique international qui permettrait aux pays en développement de tirer profit de leurs  richesses naturelles, favoriserait les transferts de technologies vers ces pays et permettrait à ceux-ci  de participer à la gestion du système monétaire international,
(15.7) Le second problème revêt la même importance que le premier, auquel il est du reste intimement  lié : c'est le problème de l'instauration de la paix partout dans le monde, de la lutte contre le racisme et  de la liquidation du colonialisme sous toutes ses formes, anciennes et nouvelles. La paix mondiale est un  tout indivisible ; elle signifie, selon nous l'absence d'agression contre les Etats, l'absence d'occupation  de la patrie ou du territoire d'autres peuples, la non-ingérence dans les affaires intérieures d'autres pays,  le respect de l'indépendance et de la souveraineté des autres, l'élimination de l'impérialisme et de la dis-  crimination raciale sous toutes ses formes et la mise en oeuvre du droit des peuples à l'autodétermination ;  elle signifie enfin qu'on se soucie des droits de l'homme à la vie, à l'éducation, à la culture et à la sécu-  rité et des droits sociaux. Telle est la conception globale de la paix mondiale à laquelle nous adhérons.
(15.8) Les programmes figurant dans le Plan qui nous est soumis comportent un certain nombre de  projets qui reflètent beaucoup de nos aspirations et contribuent dans leur ensemble à la réalisation de  l'objectif essentiel : la paix et les droits de l'homme. Nous aurions toutefois souhaité y voir figurer des  programmes prévoyant des recherches et des études qui visent à définir la notion de coexistence pacifique  et le phénomène de la violence et du terrorisme, ainsi que les moyens scientifiques susceptibles de per-  mettre cette coexistence et d'éliminer ce phénomène.
(15.9) La communauté internationale a été - et continue à être - la victime de l'imposture du sionisme et  des sionistes, qui falsifient les concepts afin d'y trouver des justifications à l'agression, à l'oppression, à  la répression, à l'assujettissement, à la dénaturation du patrimoine culturel et à la destruction de l'iden-  tité des habitants des territoires arabes occupés de la Palestine et du Liban, Tous ces actes ont effecti-  vement été commis en Palestine par Israël ; cet Etat s'emploie à déposséder le peuple palestinien de ses  droits les plus élémentaires : son droit à la vie, son droit à l'autodétermination, son droit à sa patrie et  à ses biens et même son droit de se défendre. Ne rencontrant aucun obstacle, l'agression israélienne se  poursuit implacablement. Commen, sinon, la communauté internationale peut-elle expliquer l'agression  éhontée commise contre le réacteur nutléaire irakien ? Comment peut-elle tolérer de tels défis qui, s'ils  se poursuivent, risquent de détruire entièrement la civilisation humaine ? Comment peut-elle expliquer  ce qui vient de se passer au Liban ?
(15.10) Ce qui est arrivé au Liban au vu et au su du monde entier n'est qu'une goutte dans l'océan des  crimes perpétrés par les sionistes contre le paisible peuple palestinien. Ils ont défiguré le beau visage  du Liban par le fer et par le feu et privé de toit des dizaines de milliers d'innocents en démolissant leurs  maisons. Sans doute avez-vous tous encore présents à la mémoire les massacres des camps de Sabra,  Chatila et Bir Hassan où l'horreur et le crime ont atteint des sommets sans précédent dans l'Histoire.  Des milliers de civils sans défense - femmes, enfants, vieillards - ont été massacrés sans la moindre  pitié ; des biens culturels, des centres d'infurmation et le centre de recherches palestinien ont été pillés ;  des milliers de jeunes - enseignants, médecins, ingénieurs, infirmiers, étudiants ... - ont été arrêtés.  Tous ces faits relèvent de la compétence de notre Organisation, qui doit contribuer à rétablir le droit et  exige de l'agresseur qu'il restitue les biens culturels dont il s'est emparé et libère les détenus qui sont  toujours en vie.
(15.11) Les autorités israéliennes iliégitimes n'ont jamais cessé de bafouer les valeurs sacrées, d'op-  primer, de tuer et de détruire, malgré tous les appels lancés, session après session par votre Conférenne  générale qui contribuait ainsi à la mise en oeuvre des principes de la paix mondiale et des droits de  l'homme. Il est donc indispensable de prendre des mesures efficaces contre Israël, qui doit être sanc-  tionné pour ne pas avoir tenu compte des résolutions le condamnant, pour ne pas s'être conformé a  l'éthique de la communauté internationale ni à aucun traité ou accord. Face à cette situation, il faut  absolument engager une action décisive pour rnettre Un terme à ces violations et à ces pratiques  inhumaines.
(15.12) L'éducation et la paix se complètent. En nous efforgant de former l'homme d'aujoud'hui dans son  esprit, son coeur et ses sentiments par l'éducation, nous garantissons à la paix un #ssor créateur. Cette  paix, les deux peuples musulmans de l'Irak et de l'Iran, qui subissent une effroyable hémorragie de vies  humaines, d'énergies et de ressources, en sont bien éloignés, Face à cette tragédie, notre devoir est de  souligner qu'il est urgent que la communauté internationale agisse pour mettre un terme à ce conflit,  afin que ces deux pays musulrnans jouissent de la sécurité, de la tranquilité et de la paix.
(15.13) Comme vous le savez, Monsieur le Président, une nouvelle organisation pour l'éducation, la  culture et la science a été créée ~écemment sous l'égide de l'Organisation de la Conférence islamique :  il s'agit de l'Organisation islamique pour l'éducation, la culture et la science (ISESCO). Cette organisa-  tion a pour objectifs de renforcer la coopération entre ses Etats membres dans les domaines de l'éduca-  tion, de la culture et de la recherche scientifique, de promouvoir la culture islamique et de préserver  l'identité islamique des musulm ins dans les pays non musulmans. Je profite de cette occasion pour inviter  l'Unesco à coopérer avec cette jeune organisation et à soutenir son action grâce à sa vaste expérience en  matière d'éducation, de culture et de science.
(15.14) Je voudrais aussi faire ici l'éloge de la coopération eaistant entre l'Unesco d'une part et l'Orga-  nisation arabe pour l'éducation, la culture et la science et le Bureau arabe de l'éducation pour les Etats  du Golfe d'autre part.
(15.15) Je ne manquerai pas non plus de saluer les efforts considérables déployés par le Bureau régional  de l'Unesco pour les Etats arabes du Golfe, dont le siège est à Doha et qui a fait la preuve de son effica-  cité et de sa compétence dans l'animation des projets que l'Unesco met en oeuvre dans la région.
(15.16) Monsieur le Président, notre monde a plus que jamais besoin de l'union de toutes les forces du  bien afin que triomphent la paix et le progrès que l'humanité appelle de ses voeux. C'est pourquoi nous  devons déployer dans tous les domaines une action qui soit à la hauteur de nos responsabilités. Avant de  quitter la tribune, j'estime de mon devoir de vous appeler tous à travailler à la réalisation des objectifs  contenus dans le Plan qui nous est soumis, et je forme le voeu que votre action pour le bien de l'humanité  et pour la paix suit couronnée de succès. Jz vous remercie.
16. The PRSIDENT: ;  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Qatar. I give the floor to H.E. Mr A. Majeed Khan,  Minister of Education, Religion, Sports and Cultural Affairs, Head of the Delegation of  Bangladesh.
17.1 Mr MAJEED KHAN (Bangladesh):  Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I consider it a great pleasure and a  distinct honour to represent Bangladesh at this fourth extraordinary session of the General  Conference of Unesco. Allow me, Mr President, to take this opportunity of renewing our  sincerest felicitations to you, and to express our confidence that, under the able guidance of a  personality of your eminence and erudition, the proceedings of this extraordinary session will be  conducted with vision, wisdom and objectivity. We can assure you, Mr President, of our best  possible co-operation in making the Conference a success.
17.2 We also extend our heartiest thanks and congratulations to our esteemed Director-General,  Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, for presenting a comprehensive and valuable report on the implemen-  tation of the first Medium-Term Plan, together with indications of the future role and respon-  sibilities that Unesco is expected to play and discharge in implementation of the Second Medium-  Term Plan (1984-1989), which is the main topic of discussion at this session.
17.3 Mr President, one of the founding principles of Unesco was, and I quote, that 'since wars  begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be con-  structed’. In pursuance of this objective, Unesco has, since its establishment in 1946, been per-  sistently endeavouring to secure the adoption of various programmes and measures in its dif-  ferent fields of competence, including education, science, culture and communication. Over the  years, the Organization has not only grown in wisdom, experience and resources, it has also  acquired a dynamic capacity for imaginative and relevant programme planning and implementation,  with a view to meeting the ever-emerging demands and aspirations of the world community which  it serves.
17.4 A question which can be genuinely posed here is: Are we really safe in the face of what is  happening around us in the form of blatant acts of naked aggression, violence, racial  discrimination and terrorism, carried out in total defiance of international law and world opinion,  and with scant regard for all canons of justice, morality, freedom and human dignity?
17.5 As people live on hopes, we must not be pessimistic. We must steer our way through all  obstacles and hurdles, and--in these days of growing interdependence among nations--aspire for  a better world. It is our sincere belief and hope that nothing may deter Unesco from pursuing  its objectives to maintain international peace, harmony, security and cohesion among nations  through the adoption and implementation of programmes designed to construct the defences of  peace in the minds of men.
17.6 It is indeed distressing to note that a great majority of the people of the world are still  beset with problems of poverty, hunger, disease, malnutrition, unemployment, illiteracy and very  high rates of population growth, which is now termed the 'population explosion'. The prevalence  of this hard reality in an increasingly complex world situation confirms the view that the existing  gap between the rich and poor is still widening from day to day.
17.7 The poorer nations have, however, identified their problems and demcnstrated great zeal,  fervour and commitment to their solution by drawing up various national development plans and  programmes. This is also a clear indication of their awareness of both needs and constraints,  and of their eagerness to solve these problems as quickly as possible. No lasting peace, harmony  and security of the world can be ensured unless the basic problems of the poorer nations have  been solved.
17.8 In face of this harsh reality of poverty and inequality on a worldwide scale, the developed  nations of the world are required to redirect their resources and capabilities to solve problems,  and to re-examine counter-productive traditional systems and structures of international  relations. In this cocess, it is expected that they will generate a new outlook with regard to  human and material development for all nations through the internal transformation and  reconstruction of their own values. It is for both techno-cultural and spiritual enrichment that  the developed and the developing nations must strive together in order to usher in a brighter  future of peace, security and progress on this earth.
17.9 Increased military expenditure has undoubtedly cost much in terms of social opportunity  costs, and the impact of this is felt in the developed and the developing world alike. The time  has therefore come to ask ourselves whether we should continue to prepare for new conflicts, or  direct the scarce resources towards the reduction of poverty and malnutrition, the prevention of  hunger and disease, the eradication oi illiteracy, the expansion of employment opportunities, the  creation of awareness of the threat posed by the population explosion, and the generation of  motivation among the people of the poorer nations to realize their goals of economic emancipation  and social justice.
17.10 Mr President, Bangladesh is a relatively small but densely populated country, whose  population is ethnically, culturally and linguistically homogenous in character. Since her  emergence as an independent nation in 1971, Bangladesh has been recasting her priorities in  almost all aspects of national development programme. This is reflected, inter alia, in the  educational system of the country, which has been gradually reoriented to meet the challenges of  modern life and to suit the economic and cultural needs of the country.
17.11 In keeping with the hopes and aspirations of the people and with present-day needs, the  government has recently announced a New Education Policy designed to make education available  to all people at all stages of their life. The entire educational system is intended to provide for  credit for work experience and for re-entry for all streams into higher education, in accordance  with individual needs and previous quali“cations. The new policy also places greater accent on  content, methodology and the process of implementation, and a special accent is laid on equal  educational opportunities for women.
17.12 The major thrust of the New Education Pnlicy will be in the direction of universal basic  (five-year) education, with emphasis on the training of primary teachers, the supply of  textbooks and school uniforms to students at government cost, and the provision of minimum  physical facilities in primary schools. Experience suggests that nothing concrete and substantial  can be achieved with regard to the removal of illiteracy from society without ensuring an  institutional base with built-up facilities. Thus, the new strategy for mass literacy and adult  education in Bangladesh is to develop institutional facilities for primary schools, and to support  mass literacy programmes and services, rather than to embark upon a separate mass education  programme in the country. We envision that we will be able to reach 100 per cent literacy before  the year 2000.
17.13 It is also our belief that, with a stronger base for a five-year basic education, a  congenial atmosphere will be created which will ensure substantial reduction in drop-outs at this  level, and which will arrest the inflow of uneducated people into the backwater of our illiterate  population.
17.14 To realize these objectives, the present allocation of resources for the development of  primary education in the annual development programme of the government amounts to more than
50 per cent of the total allocation for development in the field of education.
17.15 We have also embarked upon a new programme for the establishment of community learning  centres, where pre-vocational and low-level vocational skills for school drop-outs and  out-of-school youths, involving their parents and the community, will be introduced. The  innovative aspect of this programme is the formation of parent-teacher-student associations for  learning different trades and for overseeing the education of the youngsters.
17.16 At ‘ne secondary level of education, the present system of diversified courses is being  replaced by unified courses up to class X, or the tenth year of secondary education, which will  lay more emphasis on science and vocational studies. At the higher secondary level (classes XI  and XII), a more diversified programme of studies, including technical, business  management /commerce and secretarial skills, primary-teacher training, nursing and agriculture is  being introduced.
17.17 Furthermore, a consolidated programme of distance education with provision for printed  materials and electronic media is being prepared, in order to step up the training of  primary-school teachers, language teaching and also classroom instruction at both the primary  and higher secondary levels.
17.18 The technical and vocational stream of education is also being reorganized with the  introduction of basic courses for all, in order to make the output of this stream more mobile for  pursuing higher education according to their choices and options.
17.19 Educational management, being outmoded in pattern and having undergone little change,  can hardly cope with increased activities resulting from the expansion and reorganization of the  entire educational system. Steps are therefore being taken to establish a computer-based  management system in order to build up educational administration in Bangladesh on modern  lines. The modernization of the system has become all the more necessary by virtue of the fact  that the New Education Policy stands in need of planners, organizers and co-ordinators, for  implementing and controlling agencies, and urgently calls for reorganization of the whole system  and the reorientation of the personnel involved in it.
17.20 In pursuance of the broad objectives envisaged in the recently announced New Education  Policy, Bangladesh has embarked on massive and all-out efforts for the development of  education. In this respect, allow me, Mr President, to impress upon you the need for the  establishment of a subregional or area Unesco office in Dhaka. This office will not only be able  to accord due prominence to one of the largest basic education programmes proposed in the  region; under its aegis, it will be possible to exchange experience within the countries of the  subregion as well as with the other pedagogically less-developed countries in the world. It is my  sincere hope that this Conference will give due weight to this suggestion.
17.21 Mr President, my country is fully aware of the efforts being made by Unesco to establish  a new world information and communication order by removing the present imbalance in the flow  of information. We strongly believe that communication has a positive role to play in  socio-economic development and in fostering better understanding, mutual respect and support  among the nations. It is my hope that the creation of the Intergovernmental Council for the  International Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC) will go a long way towards  reducing present disparities in the flow of information, especially in the Third World.
17.22 As a member of the Intergovernmental Council of IPDC, Bangladesh will play its due role  in the meeting scheduled to be held here next month, just as it played an active role in the last  conference in Mexico.
17.23 It may be mentioned that in December 1981, Bangladesh hosted a regional seminar on  communication and development in collaboration with Unesco.
17.24 Permit me, Mr President, to refer to the draft resoluticn moved by the Bangladesh  delegation at the twenty-first session of the General Conference held in 1980 in Belgrade, urging  Unesco to assist in developing the Press Institute of Bangladesh into a regional institute for  printing media personnel.
17.25 In a world characterized by mutual distrust and lack of confidence, the importance of a  free flow of information and communication can hardly be over-emphasized. 1 would therefore like  to submit that a larger allocation of resources for implementing communication development  programmes with particular emphasis on the creation of infrastructure for both hardware and  software, including research and training at the interregional, regional and national levels,  should be made in the Second Medium-Term Plan, with indications for preferential treatment to  the least developed countries.
17.26 Turning to the field of culture, X.‘ President, my country appreciates the effort made by  Unesco in the field of culture, with particular emphasis on the preservation and presentation of  cultural heritages and the restitution of cultural property to its place of origin.
17.27 Bangladesh, though a new country, has a rich cultural heritage of very ancient origin.  The creation of a separate Cultural Division is a clear indication of the importance the  government now attaches to the development of cultural activities in the country and to the  process of exchange, dissemination and sharing of experiences with other countries.
17.28 In this connection, we may refer to our participation in the World Conference on Cultural  Policies in Mexico, where Bangladesh made her own contribution, apart from sharing the views  put forward by delegations from other Member States. Bangladesh firmly stands by the Mexico  Declaration, and is committed to act in accordance with its provisions.
17.29 Bangladesh wishes to place on record her deep appreciation of the adoption at the  twenty-first session of the General Conference of a resolution on the preservation and  conservation of the historical monuments of two sites of Bangladesh, namely the Paharpur  Buddhist Monastery and the Shait Gumbad Mosque of Bagherhat. The draft plan of action  prepared by Unesco for the purpose of launching an international appeal to Member States by  the Director-General is now under examination by the Government of Bangladesh, and the  government sincerely hopes that this appeal will arouse enough enthusiasm, interest and fervour  among Member States to support the programme of restoration and conservation of the two most  valuable and ancient cultural heritages of our country.
17.30 Mr President, the role of science and technology in the solution of the problems of  Bangladesh has been recognized by the government, and has also been included in the  framework of national economic development. A new national policy on science and technology is  under prepartion which would, inter alia, concentrate on: fostering conditions favourable to the  development of science and technology; identifying areas in which science and technology can be  effectively applied for socio-economic development; identifying the most appropriate technologies  for utilization of major indigenous resources; producing a pool of scientific and technological  manpower; and creating a scientific and technological infrastructure.
17.31 Allow me Mr President to state that Bangladesh also attaches a great deal of importance to  Chapter X of the Draft Medium-Term Plan, 'The human environment and terrestrial and marine  resources'. This programme has acquired an added significance and dimension, particularly for  the developing countries, in view of the new Convention on the Law of the Sea which has opened  up wide possibilities for the optimal use of marine resources. In this context, we welcome the  recent decision of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission to conduct a study with a  view to setting up an IOC Subcommission for the Central Indian Ocean.
17.32 Mr President, the international community has already resolved to give special support to  the least developed countries to enable them to acquire the necessary expertise and to stand on  their own. A firm base was laid by the United Nations Conference on this subject, held in Paris  in September last year, when the Substantial New Programme of Action for the LDCs was adopted.  My government fully endorses the decision adopted by the Executive Board at its 113th session  that the Second Medium-Term Plan should 'aim to satisfy the needs of all the Member States,  particularly those of the least developed countries’, and considers that the Plan should accord-  ingly reflect specific programme support and activities for implementation of the Substantial New  Programme of Action.
17.33 Mr President, while extending our strong support to the policy of decentralization of acti-  vities of the Organization, we affirm our belief that the interest of the LDCs and the developing  countries could be safeguarded by the establishment of new offices or the strengthening of old  ones. In this context, Mr President, allow me to reiterate my country's proposal for the estab-  lishment of a subregional, regional or area office at Dhaka, in any field of Unesco's competence  such as education, communication, culture, science, technology and the social sciences.
17.34 Before 1 conclude, Mr President, I wish to reiterate our abiding faith in an unflinching  support for the principles and ideals of Unesco, which are all aimed at conferring immense bene-  fits on the whole of mankind. May 1 take this opportunity of extending our sincere congratu-  lations to the Director-General of Unesco and his able colleagues for everything that has been  done to carry Unesco's contributions to the door-steps of all of us. I would also like to express  my profound sense of gratitude to you, Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, for  your kind and patient consideration. Thank you.
18. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Bangladesh. I give the floor to H.F. Mr Osman  Sid-Ahmed Ismail, Minister of Education and Guidance, President of the National Council for  Higher Educatin of Sudan and Head of the Sudanese Delegation.  { ol oged) ) Jus Lou! deal ane audi 19.)
55981 add Glogadl ady pulse 9581 slasly slush, Balade pladl moet) aqwdls Gut ST AJ  Jos dsl 5567 of Goss Sus Ls! 55 gode Lise ale dans + Gan oobi PLES PW by ge Sp EE LC J]  à il Ja¥l élan gio deasdl oS bul) adens nll detliacldl Bad) ede God tay Aube, Set gd] ma sd
4   Gr edl 9 15 75501 Le lhl pn BSD ede gle] Sea by ELS ylrols wael all ahi) ols © VAAY — 19AS  « yéts ati Lede pes Le JSY by, Alu dio, 175 (lon )t Lea Jado ge" Jedie dl alos debiell CLS  CGE pe gmat Lay * JaHl Ghugie hal Egyhe "Lee isl  ohn pid] G0 Seay 55501 Bide ar le 3 130 Lislonal o5Sn of Lal gm ofl 95 ped al VY  ola Gada Gadadl ede plo L,San pu Lo Wa) ends wll 6 Léné ko 9 glad] Ggdan OF usd Gb, 0  « 8L501 pl ga AcHls Gols  he Sect Gla y A0 VAS pela] SLEUI An le gd 981 flacly fla, pale pet Sa 1q,v  amy pdesy ob dag wal Jodie) JUST yea, las po ar 597 Led JBLasdl elie (ue 18 aSHey  pri pre lad pyladl y witha 5 bono dl wlbas a End oan Guob of Yatton; Glas p¥s as  ble 1 age Lislel yo ow go Lys Jb dal 9 Joes wd] jlo pte Su gud of 2050 Lead + Lrajoasy  cael Ll LlaSye pen dadlaed sr lus daSodl ge 50 Las, lias, aie  poh 085 — Gl len A tyhmotl y ALLOY y Gand GLE a8 om oe ated] Le per pent dl oe NDS  tele 8 aon Lao | 8S of (JI 7580 of = selon Vola Led van) ela Gi yhe bn y Fler poe Stas  + 425 pl US 350 a pe ped pli Le pds of Geli le es Gest oad) peasy GAB tn ppd  A5 Jledl jas ES LUS! op Loge pile MS Métis Aus Lu Oil 8 Loge t Lit ooh groded! Ls, 5)  la) aodis Lo tS Gade Los Boldly lead] JE Lu g slowly yoghog flan) bedydl 9 Sally  oben Mas Lad lil ps 2 poedt Jed! Clnd AINSI Gg ule pe ae pacs Log RAN JLa nd
4 Be 0 ale [Sing Jo bpman opi Gon loodl G5 ples asl ga phar placid 90 Ld cand elds ud  « y-——blioJI als + 59 JSLhoH sae F1 950 Ÿ Jessy hha of Leal 9 ol Boba old) pn ST Yy ce MS  PE WV V- SUN | J ICCC PR ECCS J IE) Bc) JPY WON | Pa WES | ISTRY ROSA Sls po be ui pe Lee Lud plie Ÿ9   &JLnôJl Lisghol ge delay] Ludong  Less 03a. Lod Logiloy Lagadg go fos of Linde ain G5dl y — Lie LioLol As gdgodl badly) 14_0  JY huge bobs Taed [AS 0s 1am JS (By + Gdsedy us gôge go Les Los Boe Gr qu ut La = 32 oo  ur yéaills Gold pladl asheldl oye (SSII 5 bbe duels! By 9 80 plead) jathedl 5 75m gi au SOLE) (SSII  red pl ogudl Ady Gly + Apollo Jl ISSN Gaar Jods go kin oF ge a) anf ohana ash eos  pS old dels, shai Ease Slasl aie pled) Joihedl wl PAS EAN pl 5091 fll Guendl aslon,l ge  lool odousl SAI) of Sl Ely Gupdedl yg Gola] as, 90 gS of palo pladl ested] sdanel Gad ye.  Leslanly dan Lalu] dog hod dhaldl sdb Jan, 130 JS + abled] dun de ASTON an) 90 of samen]  ¢ paid! 059 le Lin dlosdl ge doe ml hs 9 dent le OS sll = Lica Lise 14585 of 6,002  er 81 gluoll y Glad Gada Gls SSL 5e Bole ddor Leo dal ddl 9 dodged ge dant! le 50S nl
8S, Lie y pladl (le 951 5 do dl pT Boban ge pend] 5 pr gaedl Gere Flu Ja J Gee ae  elie dl y padiedl predladl po 159 Flow pan ¥ oll dnsnandl pllall dang tbl 8 la JS 2 bye wpa  bidhiall Grane] 3 Sdoll ppd edn pte LAV 159 Jl de Lesast odie of STI Gade esas) Jaa of  are dag hell Bbsdl ade wldgel ion le Leys EST: Liden, Tan JS 10 Cpunadl Joladt (JI del oi
1 ges Se  pe Le JS ptuio of G6 Jlas Ye 59550 + Las[ y flay, Balade platl ddl Sow: pet ST Soom 14,1  Slemsl Gle aetSYl IS addy + pal ple  alelad) bens Glisd AJ Las Judd [FEC EY EEN EN J
90   El que do le gelocielly patina dl pllall G96 onde elle (53 Lansl pli sla! 9 LS Gls pert Jl Samm LY  bol jo) elocedl 5 padinall gmedladl wl 5996 aetas cal yg edad PHASE JI AIN 5 poled JS oS oly  att CIE EY saa ol à Loysthas  eld end nl gl AN SUR pend) pained) pdlaldl 55 ESS Le JS ol obey Fletdl D 995 ad elise  + lads of LeS € Sydu0g hig Es Guob oF see 98 Led! Silent wld plenty ashe pl gal  ating toni élues of yet RON pdtadl le oly Doh solely deat ge J pluses pdladl Wd Lele pode  JS + tend only au sl 5 Say ddl cel Gis, Lo Lelilugy doeindl ILE po lus oly sll 58 ananlsy  JT 51 —umb IP SA LG — Lun (ASS + 5 Laon td Léo Jal oo Jo samy ALuinuo Jal ge ¥ alls  o—adi Oo Gol 501 ls band g Oulu 9 LS) EX BEY bas Losal 9 évolassl bol ue pois! pled boon Le  . VIS y TR W 9 Ogi o=adl 9 ugédes y ua y y gées  L0S Bans elas) jul 9 Ju 9 9 pul plad) YA LAIT Gud Jl polo, ooh Lo Lio 1 be Jol pe NALA  Login] 598 poh Tan JSy + éd Sued 9 dnellaldl Stas! Jodasg dul jo 5 gSa gol peter 51 5255  Led polos brosnd) 5lbieS poled! astiandl § és 1 cc NS ho HI  pate lS, CILISN plladl wad + pled) ols go Leas cas jsl ol 591 dl AOL col adi asl) 15.4  he Ld bbäoJl 9 GG gusnotl Letdiand 9 Les hu (pas byonie Goode! a l8T say aslo Lois JLaodi 100 5  yo éniole Lad és, Lig, alolS aided] 999 GAUSS Las sa,léee ayn Lo phase deed! ol poll JS  [DENSE] DEES] FEUER SP PUR JSR ISD SOCOM | Rp TEES [RE FADO JUL BE 9 AS ST GEST 9 JS  y Zable 15591 ald) Liotls (55 pMed) ol dered] Coon prit l GOUT Gohl GF 0m Onn  das TR OLIN JP ETE CU] PA | ss WORN hy Lo La  p5— JS Viens ol oged) 3 Ll opal slash 5 F Lay Sable pladl paedl Game pet 1 Gone MDN  calalieg eli plans doled] ates ol wa] 9 ele Uy Gls dl damned) LORS 55 esd JS LA 0  Wo? omy bhic Less gress — JS Lio ge Le JL 9 — STE Ledlisy égslot sl LUS Lio Joan of Ld 5 La oi  Cota Gus Bad) 9 pM) A SLi0 0 pd gus edd Lidds abd pool BI pSle pS) pds Clas Lads pS )t  fad oom plac + au dled doling Aya dl etl Laan B51 LeSa Lo Liesl 5 JAVT ple 158 adlasy hid)  penis pid Joli ends pS>Il Gobi 9A ple of Ladd Liao god dy 501 CS 595 9 Lune lid eu Los
8) JSC bmels dell le Jonsy Jo lend] plendl p5 Liga Log pe cGy des] pres I  hag pe BYl Éaols By sol G9 egiadl HAS deols Lu 95 S glossls JauSs ol wots jl elas ol as  Jostl y Gib gull iy plat 8 LeolSe Juan Bl jel) ot pd JS pubs yall ol al ed dann, Las LoÏ  + alelS Liban Led JASS onl 989 Synuadl ol eS. dole 5,90  ol Sell (5 Le yol Luar, Gootnll (y Léäs «pl judi yg das go 880 aa) go plogedl 9 Lil Goole 19,0)  AT Lass edad pall Joo pe baie AUS as — axl go LanSdy + eticed] Had Jo JS Jas, Js  oo bpd Grd) preted) VS Le lan Gel ge Sod sheet 5 loadin po pr sed 108 Liles pie  wld adel y gaadl Of de oledl (gi GILAS go slides Long deSodloyi intl gus lad uo gawd «Loads  tani al Loaded + pepe Hl AS ES Me petal) pe SIT wlied ald edd OS SOM JP PEN LPT a |  cola) Gos A dy 9 weal 550 Lis lo LSol Gob pdelddd Judo oo Gel gelling] eoloadl plat aly   j—00 3 Jladdl 155 Lis Liël ae JolS 59 Fly opted! OB Lungs] JS ae gales + pda Job poled) Lid  doliy mast AS 99 dhl dede Jal ge Lol a JS po OIL ge ple pam peal andl 5S of Le Jenny  pol iol ome lod lug ar! oF Cond] 9 peddle Pass adl patel LG LAS 3 Los as 91 + wl all  Pdi phy gol pis Lo JS Gadlany pyoytles dol gad pr JLibY wlilSodl 5959 cube Jomdl 9 prlanial y  pay prety 1399 pSaus gel hang aed) 150 pean of eli ge Le hal gg he pedis of oad of Lele  ood 13s de spall ge A750 alent Lo janhe plie pwns of Joly + AJS2 ON
91   aed Bann aby LAO + Blood] G5 sell axl 94 Le hilly Gud ade (580 YF pled gsSe ol egsate Nay  pps pe peslogny Ld Bal eb Jp) pa wlepSa amt Leta god Ligue Shiny dein JSLio pe  Lai pol CL yus eid Ladi, dl gin âgés alas Lo JS load] 5 peda G5 Jo pry SN had) 9 Gs yal
37 GLS ed — 3555 Liban ge Leas Log Wsltg | eo pd de da phe lad) cat dlian dl ob ls  Yl Glen puy Gob di) Gad) do of ab ihulds 90 Le JS ola Gas Jotl ju) dessa of — LAIT  EN Lal 55 abcd) Lae BIE Guy godl 9 peed) Gnd) pe dele adn dl Ge AS 5 ee SN 5  « g5lue 61,95 ÿ gle Logs a of @LolSH ai dial) 5 V9 Aan of Gada, Ÿ STs «andi  press ¥ gd ad Aidgl Loyx Ÿ loa Linde Lnlodghuo pin F1 50 dnlo bass ged Goon Lo of 18,1 °F  > sons ass of 39 Lie alain of Sen Le JI of + Jad Lo Juin of Jott sel Of 55 Led goiandl 5 so a!  mena pS od US 1998 Bl andga Gell uy ames dl hy ad, 9 Bloat i oh LEE LA  « géus gl plese) w¥low 150 uss pata ol astäste of aenndl of A0 TS Jw iobadall  Pao Bols, 99H01 55 piil 5 Bolawy ode dolaw or pSd rl ol pal G0 of cabin ppt pl Ge 1908  ad " MAL poy Moses probs - 01 a etme Lys pred pod) Leeds Bade) Golan es e))  eh Er ag df étés yl 9 gail srs lu Le Hla pas club Jad yo wold | a ON | za  © pled Bolo  sll ge ols Lil 9 + Basi HI debiiell edd pladl aed al Gl pert dl andl Las! 519 Ya 00  Loni 59 Lal a e Sol lise del ods. (WW || Elan! go eS 5 Lu pele As ll or bass 3 LA yf  + F Loos Actas) Lil el A5 " Jituotl alto Teale Gls Lossy  Läsgtyrl nues ldye9 bb Gold) Laas pSJgr Gdg5 JS Lo gauot 1 geal olbigmole Ly lelzsy 19,17  eo 0olS 59 ell des pss pdt 5 + LES sang ol
(19.1) M. SID-AHMED ISMAIL (Soudan). - (Traduit de l'arabe. )  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Messieurs les chefs et membres des déléga-  tions, je vous salue au nom de la délégation du Soudan à cette session extraordinaire de la Conférence  générale de l'Unesco et en mon nom propre. Je trouve un motif de joie et de fierté dans le fait que mon  premier acte de collaboration avec l'Unesco consiste à diriger la délégation de mon pays à cette session  extraordinaire réunie pour étudier le Plan à moyen terme pour la nériode 1984-1989. Ce Plan a été éla-  boré avec le plus grand soin et selon une méthode scientifique rigoureuse ; son cadre conceptuel et métho-  dologique est tiré du livre intitulé "Aux sources du futur" publié par l'Organisation, tandis que son pro-  gramme d'action est exposé en détail dans un document de base qui traite de toutes les questions qui  préoccupent notre monde contemporain, à savoir le "Projet de plan à moyen terme" et ses annexes.
(19.2) Je me réjouis également du fait que notre réunion se tienne à Paris, ville lumière et berceau de  la Révolution française qui a proclamé la nécessité de reconnaître les droits de l'homme et qui leur a  donné une formulation moderne. Paris est là pour nous rappeler que les droits de l'homme sont éternels,
(19.3) Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les chefs et membres des délégations, cette grande rencontre,  unique en son genre, qui se tient à l'Unesco suscite et conforte en moi un sentiment d'optimisme en  raison des idées, des indications et des espoirs dont elle est porteuse en ce qui concerne l'avenir de  l'humanité, Elle a lieu en effet à un moment où la seule voie de salut pour l'homme et son environnement  consiste à réformer, affermir et diffuser l'éducation, la culture et la science dans le but de sauvegarder  et de renouveler nos valeurs. Quoi qu'on dise de l'Unesco, elle n'en reste pas moins un refuge au milieu  de nos conflits et une tribune qui nous permet de dialoguer avec beaucoup de sagesse, essayant de  résoudre quelques-uns des problèmes de l'humanité.
(19.4) Monsieur le Président, j'ai parlé de joie et de fierté, mais la sincérité, l'honnêteté et le sens  des responsabilités m'obligent - alors que nous situons nos problèmes dans une perspective globale et  selon une méthode globale afin de leur trouver des solutions globales - à faire observer que ce qui se  passe aujourd'hui dans le monde suscite souvent de l'inquiétude et une profonde tritesse et exige de ceux  qui détiennent un pouvoir qu'ils agissent dans la mesure de leurs possibilités. Alors que le XXe siècle  touche à sa fin, les hommes s'entretuent ; il n'y a donc pas de paix, L'humanité dilapide argent, efforts,  intelligence et temps pour inventer, développer et acquérir des moyens de destruction et d'extermination  dont le coût dépasse de beaucoup les sommes qu'ils consacrent à l'élimination de la pauvreté et des tra-  gédies qu'elle engendre et à la suppression des causes de l'ignorance et de la maladie dont souffre la  majorité du genre humain ; il n'y a donc pas de développement. Mais ce n'est pas tout : l'homme nie le  droit de son semblable à la vie, à l'autodétermination et même sa qualité d'être humain ; il n'y a donc  pas d'amour et de fraternité entre les hommes. Messieurs, il est de notre devoir de tracer des plans  et de mener une action en vue de maftriser ces problèmes et de prévenir ces dangers. Le point de départ
92   de notre action ne peut être que l'affirmation des principes de liberté, d'égalité et de fraternité. l'huma-  nité est notre but et l'objectivité et l'efficacité sont nos critères.
(19.5) Le plan qui nous est soumis - et nous nous devons de féliciter ceux qui l'ont élaboré et rédigé  pour tous les efforts qu'ils ont déployés - est équilibré et clair, grâce À son objectivité et à son carac-  tère global, Il confirme le bien-fondé du principe de la planification à moyen terme, que la Conférence  générale de l'Unesco a adopté à sa quinzième session et qu'elle a encore renforcé à sa vingt et unième  session en affirmant que le point de départ du processus de planification devrait être l'analyse approfondie  des problèmes mondiaux. La délégation du Soudan est extrêmement satisfaite de constater que le Projet  de plan a été élaboré dans le respect scrupuleux des résolutions de la Conférence générale, notamment  la résolution 100 adoptée par la Conférence générale à Belgrade à sa vingt ct unième session, et de la  décision 4.1 adoptée par le Conseil exécutif à sa 113e session. Pour toutes ces raisons, le Plan qui nous  est soumis mérite notre approbation et mérite d'être l'objectif vers lequel doivent tendre nos cfforts.  Parce qu'il met l'accent sur l'éducation, sa planification et surtout son aspect pratique ; parce qu'il met  l'accent sur le développement, et surtout son caractère global et endogène ; parce qu'il insiste sur les  droits de l'homme, sur l'égalité entre les êtres humains. entre les hommes et les ‘emmes, entre les  handicapés et les non-handicapés ; parce qu'il prévoit une planification spéciale pour les zones rurales ;  parce qu'il veut favoriser la paix et la coopération entre les peuples ; parce qu'il situe tout cela dans le  cadre de la communauté de destin de la planète qui interdit au monde développé comme au monde en déve-  loppement d'ignorer les droits de l'autre et de prendre seul ses décisions ; parce qu'enfin il témoigne  d'un esprit de réflexion créateur, dynamique, qui invite à la recherche de solutions rationnelles, nous  sommes d'autant plus enclins à faire nôtres les principes de base de ce Plan.
(15,6) Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Messieurs les chefs et membres des  délégations, il est incontestable que la clé de la réalisation de tous nos objectifs est la mise au point des  méthodes les plus efficaces pour assurer le développement global du monde d'aujourd'hui, Nombreux sont  ceux qui considèrent que le problème du développement concerne uniquement les pays en développement,  oubliant les millions de personnes habitant les quartiers pauvres dans le monde industrialisé et les mul-  tiples formes de privation et d'inégalités qu'on y trouve et qui témoignent de l'existence d'un déséquilibre  malgré les progrès réalisés. Chez nous, dans les pays du Tiers Monde, ce déséquilibre se traduit par  l'hégémonie politique, économique et technique dont les instruments et les formes sont si divers que nos  problèmes de sous -développement deviennent nécessairement encore plus complexes ct durables.
(19.7 Monsieur le Président, s'il est vrai que l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international  est une nécessité pour les pays développés autant que pour les pays en développement, et s'il est vrai que  le transfert des sciences ct des techniques vers le Tiers Monde est un devoir imposé par la nécessité pour  les pays industrialisés et les pays en développement de concilier leurs intérêts à court terme d'abord et  à long terme ensuite, il nous semble cependant indispensable d'affirmer, nous qui voulons que le monde  en développement s'engage sur la voie du progrès et du développement, que tout ce qui se passe actuelle-  ment dans le monde développé montre que si ce dernier poursuit dans la même voie et continue à utiliser  les mêmes moyens, il va au-delà de difficultés et de dangers et risque de se retrouver dans une im-  passe ; de même, les philosophies qui sont à la base du monde développé ont besoin d'être révisées et  remises en question ; il faut que le monde en développement demeure fidèle à ses valeurs, à ses idéaux  et à sa philosophie de la vie et choisisse parmi les différents modes de développement celui qui est le  plus susceptible de lui permettre d'atteindre ses objectifs tout en affirmant sa personnalité et ses valeurs.  Il y va non seulement de son propre avenir mais de celui de l'humanité tout entière. Qu'il nous suffise  ici, Monsieur le Président, d'évoquer la crise économique, sociale, morale, politique, y compris celle  des valeurs, dont souffre le monde développé, et le fossé qui sépare les nantis des déshérités, ceux qui  détiennent le pouvoir de ceux qui n'en détiennent aucun.
(19.8) C'est pourquoi nous soutenons le grand programme VIII, intitulé "Principes, méthodes et stra-  tégies de l'action pour le développement’, de même que nous encourageons l'Unesco à continuer à étudier  et analyser les problèmes mondiaux actuels et à venir. Tout cela nous ramène tout naturellement aux  problèmes de l'éducation, de la culture et de la science, qui sont à la fois les points de départ et les  points d'aboutissement du développement.
(19.9) Une des questions importantes que je voudrais aborder ici est celle de l'information, La voix du  Tiers Monde est pratiquement étouffée dans ce domaine, tandis que s'affirme l'existence d'une puissante  minorité qui impose son hégémonie organisée et planifiée à tous les matériels d'information ; elle diffuse  ce qui lui plait, dissimulant la vérité sous des voiles épais et imposant au monde en développement des  valeurs futiles telles que le laisser-aller, les plaisirs bon marché et la consommation effrénée, qui  ébranlent ses propres valeurs, sapent sa structure sociale, le détournent de la voie qui conduit à un  développement sain et font perdre de vue la mission primordiale de l'information dans le Tiers Monde :  contribuer à la solution des problèmes du développement et enraciner les valeurs culturelles et humaines  les plus nobles,
(19.10) Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Messieurs les chefs et membres des  délégations, au Soudan, nous sommes chaque jour confrontés aux problèmes du développement, dans un  pays où il existe une grande diversité d'ethnies, de langues et de cultures, un pays très vaste offrant des  environnements et des climats très variés. S'il nous est permis de laisser un instant de côté nos pro-  blèmes économiques et notre retard technologique - aussi graves soient-ils - pour nous préoccuper des  plans et des décisions de l'Unesco, voici le message que nous voulons vous transmettre : nous avons  réalisé la paix en signant l'accord sur la paix et l'unité entre le sud et le nord du pays en 1972 et nous  avons institué un pouvoir régional dont l'expérience a démontré l'efficacité. Le succès de cette expé-  rience a renforcé notre conviction qu'il fallait l'élargir. Nous avons donc décidé en 1980 d'appliquer le  principe d'autonomie régionale à tout le pays, que nous avons divisé en cinq régions, sans compter celles
20.  du sud et de la capitale. Nous avons ainsi franchi des étapes importantes pour ce qui est de l'établisse-  ment des bases de la démocratie et de la participation du peuple au pouvoir. Grâce à ces mesures, le  pouvoir a été remis aux masses, pour qu'elles prennent en main le développement, la planification et  l'éducation, Ce sont elles qui maintenant supervisent toute cette action et se font rendre compte des  manquements et des insuffisances, Dans le domaine de l'éducation, nous concentrons nos efforts sur  l'enseignement de base pour tous afin de tarir l'analphabétisme à sa source et, si Dieu le veut, d'entrer  dans le XXIe siècle avec une société dont tous les membres auront reçu une éducation, Simultanément,  nous nous employons à assurer l'éducation des adultes en liant l'éducation au développement rural. Nous  suivons une voie audacieuse en matière d'éducation pratique. Bien plus, nous nous sommes fixé pour  objectif de créer une université dans chaque région, et les universités de Juba, capitale de la région sud,  et de Gezireh, capitale de la région centrale, sont terminées ou sur le point de l'être. En ce qui concerne  la condition des femmes, l'Etat met tout en oeuvre pour que la femme occupe la place qui lui revient dans  l'enseignement, la fonction publique et sur le marché du travail en général, En outre, tous ses droits  sont pleinement garantis par la Constitution et la législation.
(19.11) Messieurs, au Soudan nous sommes confrontés à plus d'un défi. Les problèmes du développement  sont au premier rang de nos préoccupations, comme dans tout pays en développement. Mais nous devons  aussi faire face - à l'instar de quelques autres pays du monde en développement - à un autre problème qui  nous impose des sacrifices et une responsabilité non négligcables : je veux parler du problème des réfu-  giés qu'accueille notre pays. Nous nous efforçons, en privilégiant les relations de bon voisinage, en fai-  sant preuve de bonne volonté et de sagesse, et en mettant à profit notre expérience, d'apaiser les querelles  et de surmonter les désaccords ; en même temps, nous ouvrons largement nos frontières A des centaines  de milliers de réfugiés, sans aucune discrimination, car notre pays est un pays où règnent la tolérance et  la coexistence harmonieuse des religions, des cultures ct des ethnies. Nous le faisons malgré la modestie  de nos moyens, car il s'agit pour nous d'un devoir, d'une responsabilité envers nos voisins. Notre grand  Nil est un fleuve de paix. Nous coopérons avec nos frères au sud et à l'est et aussi, dans un effort d'inté-  gration, avec nos frères du nord, en Egypte. Nous nous efforçons de faire de la mer Rouge un lac de paix.  Nous coopérons avec tous nos voisins pour sauvegarder l'environnement, lutter contre la désertification  et mettre en commun nos connaissances. Notre expérience des problèmes des réfugiés, à commencer par  leur accucil, la recherche des meilleurs moyens de faire en sorte qu'ils trouvent et puissent occuper  l'emploi qui leur convient, et la mise À leur disposition des possibilités voulues pour que leurs enfants  fassent des études et pour faire face à leurs problèmes, nous fait proposer que le Projet de plan prévoie  une assistance À cet effort, conférant à l'Unesco un rôle à la mesure du problème. J'espère que ler  débats de notre Conférence permettront de mieux éclairer cette question.
(19,12) Messieurs, la question de l'être ou du non-âtre de l'homme est la question la plus difficile et la  plus grave à laquelle chacun est confronté. Alors que nous discutons des problèmes du développement et  qu'ensemble nous établissons des plans en vue de les résoudre, les gouvernements de certains pays  cherchent à oppritner nos frères et à les priver de leurs droits légitimes à une vie décente et même de  leur droit à la vie. C'est de cela dont le gouvernement sud-africain est coupable vis-à-vis des peuples  d'Afrique du Sud et de Namibie ; en multipliant ses agressions contre ses voisins, ce gouvernement  menace gravement la paix. C'est aussi de cela dont le gouvernement israélien est coupable en Palestine  occupée vis-à-vis du peuple palestinien, les massacres de Sabra et Chatila et les enquêtes qui ont suivi  prouvent - à qui en doutait encore - que le gouvernement israëlien cherche à exterminer les Palestiniens  jusqu'au dernier, croyant que la solution du problème palestinien passe par une politique d'extermination,  de terreur et d'expulsion accélérée, et oubliant hélas l'expérience et les enseignements que l'humanité a  tirés de son histoire ancienne et récente. Mais le droit et la vérité ne peuvent que triompher ; un droit  n'est pas perdu aussi longtemps qu'il y a quelqu'un pour le faire valoir.
(19.13) Ce crime odieux, nous en portons tous la responsabilité et particulièrement ceux sans le soutien  matériel et moral desquels Israël n'aurait jamais osé faire ce qu'il a fait. Le moins que nous puissions  faire ici c'est d'affirmer avec encore plus de force le droit du peuple palestinien à vivre sur sa terre, à  l'autodétermination et à l'établissement d'un Etat. Sinon, il ne saurait être question pour le peuple pales-  tinien d'éducation, de développement, de culture ou de science, qui sont les domaines de compétence de  l'Unesco.
(19.14) Monsieur le Président, pour conclure, je voudrais vous dire que mon pays et moi-même nous  réjouissons de vous voir diriger cette session extraordinaire avec la même compétence que celle dont  vous avez fait preuve lors de la Conférence de Belgrade, Vous incarnez "l'esprit de Belgrade", cet  esprit admirable qui inspirait déjà les politiques de non-alignement, de libération des peuples, de désar-  mement et de paix,
(19.15) Permettez-moi également, Monsieur le Président, de rendre hommage au Directeur général de  cette Organisation d'avant-garde. Etant moi-même fils de l'Afrique, il ne sied pas que je fasse l'éloge  d'un grand homme de l'Afrique. Mais Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow n'appartient pas seulement à l'Afrique :  l'auteur de "Aux sources du futur'' appartient désormais à l'humanité tout entière.
(19.16) Je souhaite enfin plein succès à notre Conférence, et a vous tous, un excellent séjour ici et  un bon retour dans votre pays. Puisse Dieu nous assister et guider nos pas !  The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Sudan. I give the floor to H.E. Mr Ali Mohammed  Al-Jarwani, Under-Secretary to the Ministry of Education and Youth Affairs, Head of the  Delegation of Oman.
94   {oles ) Goll andl TY)  Fleury *WoyJl y 55381 plati aed] awl gaps Ty Gat; add OS ON Gent St  Sodiod! Byrne may Ile or Gols gles ible] Maes pS BIT GF 69m G51 90 ged axl iogddl slash,  cobs Bible 155 pyhatl y WILE 5 dm pul) dbl dial Gatos LIEN 9B 9 podandl 9 Bam Ls,  + Gedgadl 9 plan die pS enhed dSsLall oslsuol 9 as las FAI 5 pS) Jef of J bs  Linton Band 51 alumna dol) tus, oSolsanl doled pStonl of Got Bob Lr (5H 9 AAW
63e pSuoto (58 Lai 9 Guvgndl pl 53 psd  Lost prog Or oo LH alin Los ySury dl éobuot Lauds odo 788 ge Ye l GI Gd | goal TY  Joly + goladl golasdi 59) go bl (ge Le ghu y ALL ui bobs Lew lang Lo bols gas Ÿlnotil ais 3  Ayant Linas fl gd con Jas als JI Loltadhs G8, Los Ligue, 3153575 gates] lan ena, of  y——— ol lie 3tlty Asluo aul joy ols plosol, Lutols 559, ao gâJi sda peel of 52,0 Las TE  gy+——notl we HI ge pels 1941 — VVAE mal) Jo ¥) dha gue ahs gota éälanotl all Jd yt LOU Ÿ  JA gad ast Jl seal ole éobroll pladl aed) db (Se ÉBLodl das ds Gaels] an, 90 pF Gaadsl  ord sb Las By flo ladl 5 7 ,Shedi ge 3ylieedl ASH Osea Shells mally + Bh3Jl 630 gg te alas] 3  Jd oe Lestat 55 Jan SH sad wal yo pt dy peste s po Sd Gel Jt 829d adn F1 EU 3 | gap  Las mmr sl 33 Le Loe add SAT pend] pe 9 pes li ghey probands SNSI le do, Lo, Sudl Gib se  dl el pt I aes pdt Gaediiee ge ed = deBiadl ade mols 155 Gan) Gall ding paye  ogeiedly GOT Gos yo GRY + gepdadl 9 dal pl ET Glee got mesl 9 pul wi phi Lu, shin adage Geol]  gry Gt Jolin ge Gor gôgoy slot 155 lols Jylasge Gaäinotl jelaoll lull wlSte le fall ils  lilo Leflo ab ,Laedl wolS säJ + LY saan y elStall adn Glan le asl ads jolaedl glus¥) ball  Ala Lo ge VASE dl Loyang Sand Jl gol grand Glaal 5 Jol ge aS1 01 JI ras Le go lead)  JV 5 daledl ges peendl 9 wl Has D 905 ell 9 ah 0 gôgé + wioladl ode #151 alads 41 abus Los
(545 519 + peedl sland 8 Ghd ASIS Ga 7 tan Lid pla pe rete dl 5 Seed! 50 LYSE. (pe  Jor Hl aid eds las] 9 ae oe JS Le Jalo of gb Lisle, oS lie fle or res ol pe SE Bet  du gode Bilisy du guse ptlon 1581 Lys Lie on Joao Boley ola  Lybie Lou ele Eli ade Joe adie 51,5 Gue ul 9 abl 2d Gel gall els Logos put dl I Tio  JL dans Wd Gl, ley + jleedl poping égal SO 596 peitdl Glow] Leta Boys Lad pons als Ÿy  ABluotlge Lal Gh ee ALE Badly pu) Les g5d5 debhied] fgoloned Alon! ele, lesdl y  a andl asto¥in Jee of G90 es LSU pean dl Tan Boys ome of ol V5 + Leis seg Lens l 95  awd Jl Lyblons lbs, debiadl ade spas Wan algo Par JENS ped Jed MEN pel ans ast Le LS ETUI»
95   é_odloll dohiiall adn aul JU 830) JU Gg edt Jal oo of olantl Jed ge veste pt) andl TLV  A 9551 Je 989 Ve lc any glecdl 55 NET Ldasly Lesdiow pal JI Lach jon SSII 79 daha)  y 9 + anoïnog awit Joo ac ghee ehey olesdl slasl asg0s png ¥ G3 Sea] Jad op bony juts  ohn ge Leslie GMs | ls dpa] wlaetaedl 155 al deel Se 5 peat) Fa S OT wy asl  sal sl gay pol wl ge GLE deal) ÉLLSOII ede pe Liked axl A al Gf aS + padinly  abil pg yaad det I pel pad lean ad, Jelall alin y ylucil pos go Los pl godt he Jb Sil  ody = LI tae à hel al edd Le pol olSge gros ail ye Lat, Lao lo + Jo ¥1 dha ge  olan) ah, sod 59 of + ined) sme Jlowe 155 Lys MES IAE gael ogeadl atle Land 90 — HY GU  rE Ly Ea | FN a 55 SE) LS gs es. éhstl gd pied]  lanl JE dl go Syed] SLESSY gel nl HV 0 get SN CS 98 Go SI Le Jens 2) SENN EWR ŸI  dla) baad) op OS God) Aya dB Ag das] phd JE dele AUS CL hi ge Jlowdl Tae 9 Ge gisedl  bg ole oben phil ede ol + Lao jelaedl poles pls Jo of A5 delodl loll pen 8 Bom old  Grrl aS GE Leb, el gee JBL musi oF Lem Solana) Se idly dpe idl wi LS 081 pe Sté  « wlastowedl 03 8 Un dl GlSk go phe Stout) Alot Lglaty  dads pS éygsdl GROS VALS Jas plesedl dha ll 55 dnt SN Lo Lana lys puns I Kwa | TOA  oo Taal y JLasyl pas golauëil y Grlemall TI be oF shic danliy Gaels AJ prS poly + olay  ârau Si 55 Leb, 0 aed Loe of pledls JLasÿl abou, gad) edt hog das J aah gl Lusbolosal  o—— fod Band Unie lanes dhaJt Leo etal tt JLas)J basaett badd! Lely + LL) 5 Beto)  las a, ha $1 pleased, Co] Lcldela sal Lea gd pnSs lt laa di edlast 9e pgdadl y 5 aol  € A5 5 GG Jaw pd boli y dhl pg ,0e 5 elas  Say aha 3 pee LENS pall dl (He pt pd) Bl Le opi la gl gnSudl ye eal 5 TY8%  oma gd afd) pms bps GA etl of pe 5) 35 Yd Leys Li JS 9 ppladl pen jan Addn Jais  Ory Lines plosoil 5 03) 52d) bdo B85 05s La pd puSodl 5e 5, Las dSadl lolae Jl hs Jew!  * Josey mt ble wpdel Hl alan AGLES LapdyiSadl aman Vague Alan I we LILAS  dnble 9 bagandl Less an J 05 SL LS eal ofc get dl Le Lor bwlowdl adn J goons YY  À lt) Ll pol pian of VRAI ge idly ((GuaelS Baebes | Lod ob odp¥l Bela GES pase ples  eld émolati 38 (55 guasdl GLAST go Lao, gf go pi dloe Hla alll gale NAAT — MAO ou! yd! pls  Ln 99551 ga Jind 13m 9552 Yo p81 Ale 531: die Lioonol ads ÉLOLS An gta 829 dels dab  ssl giell Lunas oS Las! Las ytyuSilJlae Bo Joditeed) of Les I git TI LN | Ba pC | Re py Le)  by + La,l de 8 Los5 aed Bal 9 bwwBe Jo cou pladl poland rl da I (pans ue pea]  Sa 9 rlaadl $yladl podasdl gptue HI Gilat Goad! Lishi 6 dogs Bhs do Ti oder pds od  pL ul Ad pladt 55 Gendt Tae ple a Luse ol glossy alas Lullst  aS utoJl ad ape! 9 Wontadl hill ASH) Lode Blas tly dl gr cand) gle pent HI Row] Tion  span, Leblan,ly ahd) Jlow 9 aslalosl or polaldl ued Jl polo, dl oe aly + Gpelaed]l Laon)  oo Ly yet 9 Lus 58 oul 93 god aly + dyadly ball pm pteedl le Lu ba) y pool pd) 5 LBLESIN Ge  aa Jl 150 any Ati alan) by gedae and ppd Toa AJ ddyadl plead He of ples ath  ob Jhy9 ie LS At Lente 9 Il go I Ses ale bode ates ol ald aNd lal Wis dle  oid) ye GYYI wl is Llano yang choowll 9 po didl 9 Gebel! Letwor Ga II GTS 09 dryiie Gndle abl ge  Ld pd ol godt 9 LIN yo books JéLais aplalodl Lio dab jens eS + ple JS hadi, dled  dl adm le Blaadl 5 Lisl oy Lib) go 955 Lwlasl ol Lux poy + jolodl lead! Lodi as  Lo lSe ans of él 5 Gode Ïl 9 dog SM 9 all wha jolt Basu of Joloy goo) Lily» Lelong  * doles dclota¥l dasgidl 9 gmelaodl Slaclg Guyaedl podasdl aol po 8  ESR I SE PE | J rl | a LIB ER RAL  boon wld hus dll ge Lass dw Si pe G11 0m Pass Gana LIN gama le I ENT Let JS!
96   Jolly JelListt aSloy ete) poland! Jaw of éuotati Gand An D Leone Li ashen, d,) 5501 ode le  pt-—1 1A pladl GI planed Lit y + LSI lied] pny Lea, CRO Ry LS JU WENT | Ry Whe XN 1  Clea pe ena 5 + Jodeedl GUST LES pha ladle Le GB Banas EURE Gy (ola ld Gea!  go ball els elsetiae ld Gus JL, Jina] LS 13) 90 Gent SN Bobe Loe Jodie dl or pd I oasis  a 81 5 eS BLobno V9 dore 3,LA1 alco JS ¥gpeeddl aude Gite LAT Logy jute Gaeliadt b,LasI  y wal 1 alas] ages) aldig + Volt Ly,lés Lids tens CIS pda) snl pon lod dae  ot Slam] ge A5 V9 Ute ge Énil 9 Gi Lis Jediteedls Jotul poy Liadly ge Jods  «Lnodes ably Gye Lisboa ally be adS Lis 959 55 o¥lge Vas od puis of an V5 ame Giselle,  oe ge dads ome ay gd de ge Gl Lol 1 Lyshoy Lilas gs LSS a JU) ave oly LSS 2515 Gd  VAN ple ol pUaledt aia lad (ole plas l= of LU Ldso Lele 19A0 ple pain gSws go dl ge adh  SLT Jl an pd! bg ,05 LAS Gandhi godly Lolo) ge Wha! alld lead] CENT ple 9S  + debiadl Glos! ae Lolauti y Jwiiwod!  Luise, ol Jay 3e all geal LeSs pSublied edydl 130 Galsly pS,de daw pSd Sol. get dt awd TION  Lied pun Jamin dl ALI ALI fobaedl Fu Lol pdt JS Ge A dl md and Led Less  pol ad ghunll Gate aie Lilies aie EST Iola) cots of Goledl lol + dshiod oda f Lael yo  « aslS 9 all des y pSote pdudl 9 + pSb pus Aus 5 pMadly al azn ul Lillaenas
(21.1) M. AL JARWANI (Oman), - (Traduit de 1'arabe.)  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, chers collègues,  Messieurs les chefs et les membres des délégations, c'est un plaisir pour moi de représenter ici le Sul-  tanat d'Cman, au nom de S. Exc, M. Yahya Mahfoudh Al-Mandhari, ministre de l'éducation et de la  jeunesse et président de la Commission nationale d'Oman pour l'éducation, la culture et la science. Je  tiens en premier lieu à vous transmettre ses voeux de succès les plus sincères.
(21.2) Je voudrais également vous féliciter, Monsieur le Président, de votre réélection à la présidence  de la Conférence pour cette quatrième session extraordinaire et vous souhaiter un succès constant dans  l'accomplissement de votre tâche.
(21.3) Permettez-moi d'exprimer à l'Unesco la gratitude et l'estime de mon pays pour l'aide et le sou-  tien que cette Organisation accorde à nos efforts dans différents domaines et surtout en matière de planifi-  cation et de développement de l'éducation, dans un esprit de sincère coopération, Puisse cette coopération  se poursuivre, Se renforcer et nous permettre de satisfaire nos aspirations à une vie meilleure sous le  signe de notre renouveau.
(21.4) Ayant étudie avec beaucoup d'attention les documents de cette quatrième session extraordinaire  relatifs au Projet de plan à moyen terme pour la période 1984-1989, je voudrais joindre ma voix À celle  du Conseil exécutif qui, à sa 115e session, a félicité le Directeur général de l'Organisation pour le tra-  vail remarquable accompli à l'occasion de l'élaboration du Projet de plan, Je salue aussi les efforts  déployés par les penseurs, les scientifiques et les spécialistes éminents qui ont contribué à enrichir de  leur savoir et de leur expérience cet important document. Il me faut enfin saluer le travail accompli par  les fonctionnaires du Secrétariat, quels que soient leur spécialité, leur responsabilité ou leur rang. Je  dis cela, Monsieur le Président, parce que nous avons entre les mains un document d'une importance  considérable pour l'histoire de notre Organisation. Il porte en effet sur les six années a venir, ce qui nous  rapproche rapidement du seuil du XXIe siècle ; de plus, par ses objectifs et son contenu, ce document éclaire  les problèmes complexes auxquels doit faire face l'humanité, problèmes qu'il s'efforce d'analyser avec  pondération et objectivité et en évaluant la volonté et la capacité de l'homme contemporain de les affronter  et de les surmonter. La disparité entre nos espoirs, nos objectifs, à savoir améliorer la condition  humaine, d'une part, et les moyens dont nous disposons pour réaliser ces objectifs, d'autre part, a  toujours été évidente. La clairvoyance, la conscience de nos limites et la distinction entre les problèmes  urgents et ceux qui le sont moins ou entre les solutions possibles et celles qui ne le sont pas, représen-  tent déjà un pas dans la bonne direction. Si nous devions exprimer un voeu, Monsieur le Président, ce  serait que les efforts fournis pour l'élaboration de ce document aboutissent à une action sérieuse et  résolue qui permettra à tous ces projets d'atteindre des résultats perceptibles et de devenir des réalités  tangibles.
(21.5) Monsieur le Président, quelles que soient les raisons de procédure ou d'organisation qui sont à  l'origine de réunions comme celle-ci, ces réunions nous donnent une occasion - que nous saisissons - de  procéder à un examen de conscience, de dresser un bilan et de faire le point. Il nous incombe avant tout  de dévoiler les actes et les pratiques qui violent les principes de notre Organisation et ses idéaux de paix,  de liberté, et de fraternité entre les hommes, et qui sont en contradiction avec ses textes fondamentaux.  Je ne voudrais pas que nous laissions passer l'occasion offerte par cette réunion de proclamer que nous  condamnons les actes perpétrés par Israël il y a quelques mois ? cet Etat qui a l'honneur d'être membre  de notre Organisation et de faire partie de la communauté internationale a commis des crimes odieux  contre les peuples libanais et palestinien sans défense, au vu et au su du monde entier. Monsieur le  Président, ces actes doivent être considérés non seulement comme une agression contre un peuple mais
97   aussi comme une offense et un défi aux grands principes sur lesquels repose notre Organisation. Cela  prouve, s'il en est besoin, que la mission de cette Organisation demeure importante et difficile. Il faut  donc planifier et unir nos efforts, renforcer la volonté et la conscience de l'humanité et les orienter dans  un sens positif ; mais il faut en même temps demander des comptes à ceux qui veulent se soustraire à la  volonté des peuples et qui font fi des principes les plus nobles, il faut priver l'oppression et l'agression  de toute possibilité de prédominer sur la justice et la paix. De cette tribune, je lance un appel en faveur  du soutien et du renforcement de tous les moyens et instruments de contrôle, de prévention et de jugement,  et en premier lieu du comité du Conseil exécutif chargé de la protection des droits de l'homme, afin que  soient sauvegardés les principes de l'Unesco et dénoncées les pratiques de ceux qui les bafouent.
(21.6) Monsieur le Président, toujours dans le cadre des principes généraux qui guident les efforts de  cette Organisation et des objectifs majeurs vers lesquels tendent ces efforts, permettez-moi de m'arrêter  quelques instants sur les traits essentiels du Projet de plan à moyen terme soumis à cette Conférence. Je  le ferai en essayant de définir notre position sur ce Projet et en affirmant notre volonté résolue de le sou-  tenir, car nous sommes convaincus qu'il concorde avec nos plans nationaux dans les différents domaines  d'activité de l'Unesco.
(21.7) Monsieur le Président, ce n'est pas un hasard si la première lettre du sigle de cette grande  Organisation mondiale est celle qui désigne le plus important de ses domaines d'activité, celui qui a  l'impact le plus profond sur l'homme et son avenir, à savoir le domaine de l'éducation. Il s'agit en effet  de l'activité vitale sans laquelle on ne peut préparer l'homme à assumer ses responsabilités vis-à-vis de  lui-même et de la société dont il fait partie. Je ne gaspillerai pas le temps précieux de cette Conférence  en soulignant l'importance de l'éducation pour les diverses sociétés humaines, quel que soit leur niveau  de développement. Il me suffit de faire observer qu'à la base de cette place privilégiée de l'éducation, il  y a le besoin d'améliorer, de rénover et de créer, qui restera toujours un des principaux soucis de l'être  humain. Un des grands programmes du Projet de plan à moyen terme est intitulé "L'éducation pour tous" ;  le point essentiel qui frappe celui qui prend connaissance de ce grand programme est - et ce n'est pas  nouveau - que les efforts déployés dans le domaine de l'alphabétisation ont donné de maigres résultats.  La délégation de mon pays appuie l'orientation proposée dans le plan qui consiste à articuler la rénovation  de l'enseignement primaire avec l'éducation des adultes. C'est la stratégie actuellement mise en oeuvre  par mon pays. Toutefois, il serait souhaitable d'élargir l'éventail des solutions pratiques dans ce domaine ;  à cet égard, je crois qu'il faudrait se pencher tout spécialement sur les systèmes d'enseignement tradi-'  tionnels qui étaient la norme dans tous les pays en développement avant de céder la place au système édu-  catif actuel. En effet, les systèmes traditionnels offrent d'innombrables possibilités pédagogiques qu'on  peut mettre à profit pour diversifier les méthodes d'alphabétisation et les adapter aux conditions de travail  et aux modes de vie de l'immense majorité des populations rurales de ces pays.
(21.8) Monsieur le Président, un des principaux centres d'intérêt du Plan est la communication, activité  vitale au service de l'homme. En tant que pays en développement qui s'emploie à favoriser son renouveau  et suit la voie du changement social et économique, nous faisons de la communication une de nos préoccu-  pations principales, et nous attendons le jour où la communication et l'information pourront pleinement  jouer leur rôle dans le développement global de notre pays. Vu le caractère complexe de la communication  qui, selon le Plan, est un domaine interdisciplinaire par excellence, intimement lié à la technologie  moderne, nous nous félicitons de l'importance que lui accorde le Projet de plan, particulièrement en ce  qui concerne la recherche et la formation.
(21.9) Ce que je viens de dire de la technologie, Monsieur le Président, m'amène au grand programme V  du Plan qui a trait à l'enseignement des sciences et de la technologie. Je dois faire observer qu'il est  nécessaire d'élargir notre optique dans ce domaine pour nous préoccuper de l'adaptation de la culture à  la technologie et de la nécessité de préserver l'équilibre entre cette dernière et les cultures locales, afin  que la technologie ne devienne pas une culture de rechange ou un mode de vie caractérisé par l'aliénation.
(21.10) Permettez-moi à ce propos, Monsieur le Président, de décrire très brièvement nos dernières  expériences dans ce domaine au Sultanat d'Oman. Nous sommes en train de créer notre première univer-  sité (l'Université Qabous) qui devrait ouvrir ses portes au cours de l'année universitaire 1985-1986, si  Dieu le veut. Bien que quatre de ses cingfacultés soient appelées à avoir une vocation purement scienti-  fique et technologique, nous avons veillé dès le début à ce que ce choix n'entraîne pas de déséquilibre  culturel chez les futurs diplômés. Toujours dans le domaine de la technologie, notre modeste expérience  qui consiste à associer enseignement technique et enseignement général dans un même établissement se  poursuit avec succès. Nous sommes en train de franchir une nouvelle étape dans ce domaine avec notre  deuxième Plan quinquennal puisque nous étendons cette expérience à l'enseignement secondaire industriel ;  nous venons en effet de mener à bien la phase de mise en place du premier établissement de ce type, qui  doit commencer à fonctionner pour la prochaine année scolaire.
(21.11) Pour ce qui est de l'environnement et de sa protection, Monsieur le Président, je tiens à sou-  ligner que les risques et la responsabilité sont communs à toutes les sociétés modernes. Le grand pro-  gramme X expose les orientations du Projet de plan en matière d'environnement et relie ces orientations  à nombre d'activités, de programmes et de politiques aux niveaux national et international, Nous sommes  fiers, dans le Sultanat d'Oman de l'intérêt porté par notre gouvernement à l'environnement, intérêt si vif  qu'a été créé un Conseil national de la protection de l'environnement présidé par Sa Majesté le Sultan.  Notre pays a quelque 1. 700 kilomètres de côtes donnant sur des milieux m: rins très divers, puisqu'il est  bordé par le détroit, le golfe et l'océan, Des milliers de pétroliers transitent par nos eaux chaque année,  Quant à l'intérieur de notre pays, il s'y trouve des espèces végétales et animales rares dont une des plus  célèbres est l'antilope d'Oman (maha). Aussi l'action menée par les ciotyens de notre pays et par nos  voisins pour protéger et préserver cet environnement bénéficie -t-elle de nos encouragements, Nous  souhaitons que les études scientifiques, l'éducation et l'information relatives à l'environnement soient  intensifiées, qu'elles trouvent la place qui leur revient dans les programmes scolaires et dans la forma-  tion des enseignants et qu'elles servent de thème à des actions de sensibilisation.
(21.12) Monsieur le Président, la décision récente de confier au Ministère de l'éducation de mon pays  les questions de jeunesse ajoute une dimension justifiée à notre conception de l'éducation, Elle entraîne  de nouvelles responsabilités pour ce Ministère et montre que nous sommes fermement convaincus de  l'importance de l'expérience scientifique dans la formation permanente comme de l'importance de l'inter-  action et la complémentarité entre l'éducation scolaire et l'éducation extrascolaire qu'il s'agisse des  enfants ou des adultes. Nos regards sont tournés vers 1985 - l'Année internationale de la jeunesse - ct  nous espérons faire un nouveau bond qui permettra à notre jeunesse d'aborder sereinement l'avenir.  Puisque je parle de la jeunesse, je suis amené à parler de l'avenir, Ce terme, pour les sociétés qui ont  déjà un acquis sur le plan de la civilisation industrielle, évoque un jour nouveau et radieux dont l'avène-  ment ne représentera pas un bouleversement et ne revêtira pas de profondes significations, Pour nous,  peuples du Tiers Monde, il implique une évolution culturelle générale en raison de l'écart culturel qui  existe entre notre réalité d'aujourd'hui et notre avenir. Car l'avenir est une réalité tangible à laquelle on  ne peut sc soustraire, à laquelle il faut se préparer et s'adapter ; nous devons dès à présent lui ménager  une place dans notre existence tout entière, dans notre réalité quotidienne, dans notre enseignement et  dans notre réflexion ; nous devons nous y préparer sur le plan intellectuel, affectif et matériel car il est  À nos portes. Sans doute faut-il voir un signe de bon augure dans le parallélisme entre la décision de  l'Unesco de faire de 1985 l'Année internationale de la jeunesse et la décision de Sa Majesté le Sultan de  faire de 1983 l'Année de la jeunesse omanais e. Cette décision procède de notre foi dans le rôle d'avant-  garde de la jeunesse et de notre conviction qu'il faut la préparer à affronter l'avenir, conformément aux  objectifs de l'Unesco.
(21.13) Monsieur le Président, je vous remercie de votre patience et de m'avoir accordé ce temps de  parole. Je prie Dieu de nous guider tous vers le bien de l'humanité, par le respect des nobles principes  que nous nous sommes engagé à observer en tant que membres de cette Organisation, Je forme le voeu  sincère que nous prouvions, par l'action plus que par la parole, que nous sommes à la hauteur de nos  responsabilités vis-à-vis de nos sociétés, qui aspirent au bien et à la paix, et de la confiance que vous  nous témoignez. Je vous remercie.
22. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Oman. I give the floor to H.E. Mr Ernesto  Thalmann, Chairman of the Swiss National Commission for Unesco, Head of the Delegation of  Switzerland.
23.1 M. THALMANN (Suisse). -  Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi tout d'abord de vous féliciter pour votre élection au  poste de Président de Ja Conférence générale.
23.2 L'adoption du second Plan à moyen terme est un événement majeur dans la vie de notre  Organisation. Nos décisions détermineront la contribution future de l'Unesco au bien-être des  peuples et des individus, et sa place dans la coopération internationale, Cette responsabilité  exige de nous une grande rigueur intellectuelle. J'aborde donc dans un esprit de critique cons-  tructive les questions complexes qui nous sont posées, en regrettant que la limite de temps  impartie aux orateurs ne me permette pas d'être aussi nuancé que je l'aurais souhaité.
23.3 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais vous faire partager un souci de mes autorités. Dans  mon pays, l'intérêt voué à l'Organisation a tendance à diminuer, L'Unesco des projets concrets  utiles et réussis fait moins parler d'elle que l'Unesco des controverses stériles. D'autre part  les activités qui nous intéressent directement sont de moins en moins nombreuses. Le deuxième  Plan remédiera-t-il à cette situation ? 11 est juste que l'Unesco serve avant tout les populations  qui ont le plus grand besoin d'elle, mais elle n'en est pas moins une organisation à vocation  universelle.
23.4 Sa mission essentielle est clairement définie dans son Acte constitutif : l'Organisation a  pour fonction première d'encourager la coopération intellectuelle entre nations "afin d'assurer  le respect universel de la justice, de la loi, des droits de l'homme et des libertés fondamentales  pour tous". C'est ainsi qu'elle oeuvre en vue d'une finalité que nous faisons nôtre sans réserve  aucune : la quête d'une vraie paix qui repose sur le respect des droits de l'homme, Toute l'ac-  tion de l'Unesco doit s'enraciner dans ce respect. C'est l'homme que l'Organisation doit servir,  et non des idéologies. L'accent devrait porter sur les aspects culturels de la problématique  mondiale, et le centre de gravité future de l'Unesco se déplacer vers les sciences sociales et  la culture.
23.5 L'Unesco doit concentrer son action sur des problèmes relevant exclusivement de sa  compétence et sur des activités qui ont prouvé leur utilité. Elle doit également viser à satis-  faire en priorité les besoins les plus urgents des différents pays. Il est sans aucun doute urgent  de combattre la misère des populations déshéritées et trop souvent exploitées par leurs propres  dirigeants. Il est tout aussi urgent d'alphabétiser. Il est urgent d'adapter les systèmes éducatifs  aux réalités de notre temps. Il est urgent de rétablir l'équilibre entre les activités de l’homme  et la nature. Il est urgent de sauvegarder l'héritage culturel de l'humanité. Il est urgent d'élu-
4   cider et de maftriser les mécanismes du développement. Il est urgent de faire respecter l'apport  original des femmes au bien-être de l'humanité. Mais il n'est pas urgent de refaire des études  qui ont déjà été faites ailleurs.
23.6 Le Projet de plan, fruit d'un travail considérable de la part du Directeur général comme  du Secrétariat - auxquels je tiens à rendre ici hommage - part d'une analyse de la probléma-  tique mondiale. Nous avions espéré que cette analyse irait au-delà de l'analyse Nord-Sud clas-  sique, des schémas faciles (fossé entre peuples riches et pauvres, absence de solidarité, etc.),  d'un manichéisme idéologique primaire. Nous avons lu attentivement le texte du Directeur  général. Il rassemble certaines données intéressantes. Mais nous ne sommes pas en mesure de  suivre le Directeur général dans toute son analyse qui nous paraît mal fondée là où elle tend à  rejeter la responsabilité des grands problèmes existants sur un seul groupe de pays. S'il est  vrai que les séquelles du colonialisme ont traumatisé de nombreux peuples, on ne peut affirmer  que le colonialisme soit l'unique cause de toutes les situations de sous -développement. En  témoigne le développement étonnant de certains pays anciennement colonisés. Il existe en outre  de nombreuses causes endogènes de sous-développement. Les analyser objectivement rendrait  grand service à la cause du développement.
23.7 Monsieur le Président, de sérieuses inquiétudes avaient surgi «n nous à la lecture du  chapitre XIII du Projet de plan dans sa première version. Je remercie le Directeur général qui  a fait un pas important afin d'aller à la rencontre des préoccupations exprimées par le Conseil  exécutif. Les précisions et modifications apportées apaisent dans une large mesure les craintes  que nous avions nous-mêmes jusqu'à la réception du nouveau texte. Les questions traitées n'en  demeurent pas moins d'une gravité telle que j'exposerai aussi brièvement mais clairement que  possible nos vues en la matière.
23.8 Tout d'abord, nous ne partageons pas les thèses avancées en ce qui concerne la paix et  plus particulièrement le désarmement. La course aux armements est un symptôme des tensions  qui règnent dans notre monde et non l'inverse. Le gouvernement suisse est conscient de l'impor-  tance croissante du contrôle des armements et du désarmement en matière de politique inter-  nationale. Il prêtera son concours à toute initiative allant dans le sens d'une réduction simul-  tanée et générale des armements. Aujourd'hui comme hier, on ne saurait ignorer que la puis-  sance militaire et la course aux armements sont la conséquence de l'insécurité et des tensions  internationales. Ainsi le principe séquentiel "arbitrage - sécurité - désarmement" énoncé à  l'époque de la SDN par Nicolas Politis est toujours actuel. En effet, pour parvenir au désarme-  ment, il est essentiel d'instaurer d'abord sur le plan international un climat de paix et de con-  fiance. C'est seulement quand tous les Etats, grands et petits, pays développés et en développe-  ment, seront prêts à contribuer à cette instauration que le temps viendra où une part de plus en  plus grande des gigantesques sommes destinées aujourd'hui à l'armement pourra être consacrée  au développement de l'être humain. Je pense que, dans ce contexte, la vraie vocation de 1'Unescc  est d'oeuvrer en vue de cette confiance mutuelle par la promotion de la coopération réelle entre  les Etats membres, Elle doit par contre soigneusement éviter de se livrer à une propagande  partiale dans ce domaine.
23,9 Monsieur le Président, la portée de l'expression "Droits de l'homme" s'est considérable-  ment élargie au cours des vingt dernières années. On tend par là de plus en plus à rechercher  une sorte de protection contre un sentiment de profonde insécurité existentielle des individus et  des peuples.
23,10 Cet état de choses a diverses causes, dont bon nombre touchent directement l'Unesco.  Ce qui est en jeu, c'est notamment le libre épanouissement de l'individu. D'autres forces sont  également à l'oeuvre, sur lesquelles l'Unesco ne peut avoir aucune influence, Dans le domaine  de la course aux armements et du désarmement, elle ne dispose en effet d'aucun pouvoir déci-  sionnel - indépendamment du fait que ces problèmes n'entrent guère, si généreusement qu'on  puisse interpréter l'Acte constitutif, dans la sphère de compétence de l'Organisation.
23.11 Bien entendu, l'Unesco se doit, en vertu de cet Acte constitutif, de contribuer au main-  tien de la paix et de la sécurité - sans se transformer en institut de recherche sur la paix -  mais en s'attachant à favoriser la coopération internationale dans les domaines de sa compé-  tence, afin d'offrir à chaque être humain le bénéfice de la justice, de la loi et des droits de  l'homme. Toutefois ce n'est pas en premier lieu aux peuples, mais bien à la communauté des  individus que cette action doit s'adresser,
23.12 Or précisément, même après sa révision par le Directeur général, le Projet de plan met 4  davantage l'accent sur la paix, la course aux armements et le désarmement, ainsi que les droits  des peuples, qu'il ne s'interroge sur l'action à déployer afin de permettre à chaque individu de  jouir plus complètement de la paix, de la justice, du droit et plus particulièrement des droits de  l'homme, et ce, sans aucune discrimination. C'est la raison pour laquelle ma délégation demeure  préoccupée par l'orientation fondamentale de ce chapitre, et a formulé des propositions concrètes  en vue de l'amender.
23.13 Nous sommes d'avis que les droits de l'homme sont aujourd'hui plus actuels que jamais.  Il ne s'agit pas, à nos yeux, d'une relique léguée par la bourgeoisie du XIXe siècle. Mon pays  ne méconnaft aucunement les liens d'appartenance mutelle qui unissent l'individu à la société.  En même temps, il est persuadé qu'une insertion totale, tendant à une fusion de l'individu dans  la société à laquelle il appartient, ne peut constituer un objectif politique raisonnable. Car ce  qui fait l'identité spécifique et culturellement unique de chaque être humain ainsi que sa dignité  (sans lesquelles la paix n'est qu'un mot vide de sens) ne peut être préservé que si les droits de  l'homme reçoivent une réalisation individuelle, dans laquelle le bien commun doit certes égale-  ment être pris en compte.
23.14 Que l'Unesco contribue à l'entreprise commune visant à donner une meilleure définition  des droits des peuples, et nous soutiendrons cet effort, seuls le droit à l'autodétermination et  le droit de disposer librement de ses ressources naturelles étant aujourd'hui des droits des  peuples universellement reconnus. Mais nous ne saurions admettre qu'une telle démarche  implique une quelconque réduction des droits individuels.
23.15 Nous ne pourrions pas davantage accepter que ces droits tendent à être réduits à l'ex-  pression d'une culture particulière, c'est-à-dire, par ce biais également, relativisés. La  Déclaration universelle des droits de l'homme, dont les sources historiques sont certes claire-  ment identifiables, constitue l'unique code universellement reconnu, le seul système de valeurs  qui lie l'ensemble de l'humanité. Reconnaître l'obligation pour tous de respecter les droits de  l'homme et les libertés fondamentales de chacun constitue la raison d'être même d'une solida-  rité de toute l'Humanité, et son unique ciment. Faire des droits de l'homme tels que nous les  reconnaissons tous un simple accident de l'histoire mettrait en danger toute coopération inter-  nationale au sein du système des Nations Unies.
23,16 Monsieur le Président, je doute que le projet soumis à la Conférence générale fasse  droit aux vues que je viens d'exposer. Nous avons l'impression que l'individu y est de plus en  plus subordonné à la collectivité. A cette orientation correspond aussi une tendance croissante  à l'instrumentalisation de l'éducation, des sciences, de la culture et de la communication, au  service de l'Etat et en vue de finalités d'ordre purement politique : paix, désarmement, déve-  loppement, etc. Nous ne saurions nous y rallier et hypothéquer l'avenir des générations  montantes.
23.17 La dimension jeunesse n'apparait d'ailleurs nulle part explicitement dans le projet. Nous  le regrettons et croyons que les problèmes de la jeunesse - qui, dans de nombreux pays, repré-  sente une part importante de la population - mériteraient d'y trouver leur place, comme ceux  qui concernent la condition de la femme. Nous soumettrons donc à la Conférence générale un  projet de résolution invitant le Directeur général A ajouter à la version finale du Plan une note  sur les orientations dans le domaine de la jeunesse.
23.18 Monsieur le Président, comme la Conférence générale, nous avions souhaité que ce  nouveau Plan constitue un pas décisif vers une concentration des activités de l'Unesco, et per-  mette de trouver un meilleur équilibre entre les ambitions de l'Organisation et les moyens dont  elle dispose. Nous avions aussi espéré que le document soit succinct et rédigé dans un langage  accessible aux non-initiés. Nous constatons à regret qu'au contraire, le projet prolonge prati-  quement tous les objectifs et activités contenus dans le premier Plan, sur lesquels il greffe  quelques thèmes nouveaux, et qu'il ne dégage pas de priorités claires. A cet égard, les alloca-  tions de ressources envisagées ne nous satisfont pas. Une réduction des moyens alloués aux  programmes scientifiques n'est pas acceptable, non plus qu'une stagnation des ressources  affectées au grand programme XI,
23,19 J'en viens maintenant très brièvement aux grands programmes I, VIII et XII. Nous esti-  mons tout d'abord, comme le Directeur général, que la prospective devrait être une dimension  importante de l'action future de l'Organisation, du fait de sa vocation intellectuelle. Mais, plutôt  que de se traduire en un grand programme, la prospective ne devrait-elle pas constituer une  dimension inhérente à l'ensemble des activités de l'Unesco ? Une analyse des multiples études
101   prospectives faites ces dernières ann“es serait utile, mais nous nous interrogeons sur les moda-  lités de réalisation de l'étude proszcctive Flobale proposée car nous ne croyons pas que la créa-  tion d'une commission scientifique internaticnale s'impose. On ne peut prospecter l'avenir sur  la base d'un compromis entre scientifiques, si éminents qu'ils soient.
23.20 Pour ce qui est du grand programme VIII, ma délégation ne peut que se rallier aux  préoccupations exprimées dans le Projet de plan. Il est en effet certain que, malgré des pro-  grès indéniables réalisés dans beaucoup de pays, les résultats d'ensemble de l'effort de déve-  loppement entrepris par la communauté internationale sont encore très insuffisants. Il faut  admettre que nous n'avons pas encore une connaissance assez approfondie du processus de  développement, des évolutions sociales et politiques qu'il suppose, des interrelations entre  les éléments culturels, techniques et économiques. Nous saluons donc la ligne générale de ce  grand programme.
23.21 Nous souhaiterions toutefois que l'on souligne, davantage que cela n'est le cas dans le  projet actuel, la nécessité d'appuyer autant que possible la réflexion sur les expériences d'ores  et déjà faites par les pays en développement, Il serait fort utile que ces expériences soient exa-  minées objectivement, que les résultats en soient étudiés. De telles études fourniraient en outre  un apport intéressant à la coopération technique entre pays en développement.
23.22 Nous nous réjouissons, à propos du grand programme XII, que le concept de tolérance  ait trouvé droit de cité dans le vocabulaire de l'Unesco, puisqu'une délégation de notre pays  s'était vainement battue en 1974 pour que cette notion soit mentionnée dans la Recommadation  sur l'éducation pour la compréhension, la coopération et la paix internationales et l'éducation  relative aux droits de l'homme et aux libertés fondamentales. A notre avis, la question du ra-  cisme devrait toutefois être abordée au titre des droits de l'Homme, et le grand programme XII  être fondu dans le grand programme XIII. Il nous paraît en outre arbitraire de privilégier la  discrimination raciale - qui sévit malheureusement dans toutes les régions du monde - par  rapport à d'autres formes de discrimination d'une égale gravité telles que celles fondées sur le  sexe, la religion ou l'opinion politique. Je vous remercie Monsieur le Président.
24. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Switzerland. I give the floor to the  Director-General.
25.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL.-  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, j'ai demandé la parole,  contrairement à mon habitude de ne répondre aux observations présentées par les délégués  qu'une fois le débat terminé ; mais il me paraît extrêniement important de relever dès mainte-  nant un certain nombre d'affirmations faites par le délégué de la Suisse dans sa déclaration,
25,2 Je ne puis admettre que l'on dise que l'analyse que j'ai faite de la problématique mondiale  témoigne d'un "manichéisme idéologique primaire''. Je passe sur le qualificatif de primaire,  mais je ne peux pas admettre que l'on dise que cette analyse est marquée par un quelconque  "manichéisme idéologique". Je m'élève donc fermement contre l'affirmation que vient de faire  M. Thalmann, en attendant que la Conférence générale elle-même se prononce.
25.3 Je voudrais dire aussi à M. Thalmann qu'il m'attribue des idées ou des intentions que je  n'ai pas exprimées dans mon analyse quand il dit qu'on ne peut affirmer que le colonialisme soit  l'unique cause de toutes les situations de sous -développement ; je n'ai jamais dit cela dans  quelque texte que ce soit. Je me suis efforcé d'exposer la problématique mondiale et de dire  quels sont les facteurs qui maintiennent les pays en développement dans les situations qu'ils  connaissent actuellement. Je ne voudrais donc pas que M. Thalmann donne une interprétation  erronée de ma pensée et déduise de cette interprétation un certain nombre de conclusions qui  ne me paraissent pas correspondre à la vérité.
25.4 Quand le délégué de la Suisse dit que l'Unesco doit soigneusement éviter de se livrer à  une “propagande par*iale" en ce qui concerne le désarmement, je voudrais savoir de quelle  propagande il veut parler. Ce sont des formules de ce genre qu'utilise le plus souvent la presse,  et on sait quelle presse, pour tenter de dénigrer l'Organisation, et peut-être pour abcutir au  résultat simalé par M. Thalmann quand il dit que “'intérêt voué à l'Organisation a tendance à  diminuer dans son pays. Je pense qu'un président de commission nationale devrait rechercher  les raisons objectives de cet état de choses.
25.5 Je ne puis pas plus admettre qu'on dise que la démarche visant à donner une meilleure  définition des droits des peuples implique une quelconque réduction des droits individuels,  comme si cela était dit quelque part dans le Projet de plan. De plus, je n'ai émis nulle part,  dans les textes que j'ai présentés, l'idée que les droits de l'homme seraient "un simple acci-  dent de l'histoire".
25.6 Enfin, rien n'autorise à discerner dans le Projet de plan une "tendance croissante à  l'instrumentalisation de l'éducation, des sciences, de la culture et de la communication au  service de l'Etat et en vue de finalités d'ordre purement politique" ; cela ne me paraît absolu-  ment pas correspondre à la vérité. Je m'arrête là, Monsieur le Président, mais j'aurais pu  continuer. Je le répète, Monsieur le Président, je n'ai tenu à intervenir que parce que je  voulais dissiper d'ores et déjà tous les malentendus qui pourraient résulter de l'exposé que  M. Thalmann vient de faire. Cet exposé ne me paraît absolument pas conforme à une lecture  rigoureuse, objective et honnête du Projet de plan à moyen terme que j'ai proposé. Je vous  remercie, Monsieur le Président.
26. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Director-General. Our next speaker is H.E. Mr Jaime Arias,  Minister of National Education, Head of the Delegation cf Colombia. He has the floor.
(27,1) M. ARIAS (Colombie). - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués à la quatrième session extraordinaire  de la Conférence gériérale de l'Unesco, Monsteur le Directeur général, je voudrais d'abord féliciter le  Président pour sa réélection, due en grande partie à la façon remarquable dont il s'est acquitté de son  rôle à la dernière session de la Conférence générale, tenue à Belgrade.
(27.2) Mon pays et son gouvernement adressent, par votre entremise, un salut fraternel! à tous les  peuples de la terre, en particulier à ceux qui, comme la Colombie, livrent bataille contre l'ignorance,  l'injustice, les luttes fratricides et la pauvreté.
(27.3) Je viens d'un pays qui depuis qu'il a accédé à la liberté, voilà 160 ans, n'a cessé de poursuivre  son édification dans le cadre d'un système de démocratie représentative auquel président les principes  de liberté, d'égalité et d'ordre.
(27.4) Je viens d'un pays qui a compris qu'il n'était possible d'établir une démocratie politique, écono-  mique et culturelle qu'en adoptant une politique éducative permettant d'éliminer dès le départ les  inégalités.
(27.5) Dans mon pays, qui entre à peine dans la catégorie des nations semi-industrialisées, le nombre  des jeunes scolarisés a, en dix ans, été multiplié par deux dans le primaire, par cinq dans le secondaire  et par dix dans l'enseignement supérieur.
(27.6) Je viens d'un pays qui croit fermement que l'éducation est un instrument au service du bien mais  peut aisément se mettre au service du mal ; que, de même qu'elle sert à construire la liberté, elle peut  servir la tyrannie et la dictature ; qu'elle peut contribuer au changement social ou accroître l'injustice  et l'inégalité entre les hommes ; qu'elle peut favoriser la participation démocratique, mais aussi l'éli-  tisme. Notre éducation, en Colombie, est au service du changement social, de la liberté et de la paix.
(27.7) Je viens d'un pays qui, en se fondant sur la ioi et la raison, a décidé une amnistie politique géné-  rale pour permettre aux groupes armés insurgés de sc réintégrer à la vie civile normale,
(27.8) Je viens d'un pays où, dans le secteur public, près de la moitié des postes de direction sont  occupés par des femmes et dans lequel l'âge moyen des membres du gouvernement est inférieur à 45 ans,  autrement dit d'un pays quia fait sicns les principes proclamés par l'Unesco et l'Organisation des Nations  Unies en faveur des groupes économiquement faibles, de la femme et de la jeunes.e.
(27.9) Je viens d'un pays qui, au cours des deux prochaines décennies, va s'efforcer d'intégrer au  système éducatif toute sa population, sans distinction d'Age, de race, de région, de niveau économique  ou d'aptitude intellectuelle ou physique, grâce à l'application d'une politique générale faisant appel aux  méthodes de l'éducation non formelle et de la télééducation ainsi qu'à celles de l'université ouverte et  de la téléuniversité, politique en faveur de laquelle le peuple colombien s'est prononcé lors des dernières  élections, Un pays, en somme, qui aspire à devenir une grande école ouverte à tous.
(27.10) Je viens de Colombie, un pays qui est fier d'appartenir à la communauté latino-américaine et à  la région des Caraïbes et qui a compris la nécessité d'adhérer au groupe des pays non alignés pour y  défendre les intérêts des peuples de cette région et non pas ceux de puissances étrangères.
(27.11) Vous qui etes rassemblés ici, vous constituez l'Unesco ; autrement dit, celle-ci est ce que vous  voulez qu'elle soit. C'est vous et nul autre qui êtes responsables de ce qu'elle peut faire de bon comme de  mauvais.
(27,12) Après avoir étudié le Projet de plan à moyen terme, nous demandons à l'Unesco de s'efforcer,  grâce aux actions définies dans le Plan, de dépasser ses propres limites ; nous souhaitons que les  nombreux fonctionnaires qui ont été mis à sa disposition par les pays membres s'imprègnent des objectifs  du Plan et s'attachent à les réaliser et que l'Unesco profite de l'exécution de ce nouveau Plan pour rompre  avec un centralisme excessif qui, s'il persistait, risquerait de lui faire perdre le contact avec les pays  qui la composent.
(27.13) Nous qui venons du Tiers Monde, nous demandons à l'Unesco de rester le lieu privilégié où se  discute l'avenir de l'éducation, de la science, de la communication et de la culture dans la perspective  du progrès de l'humanité. Nous lui demandons également de continuer et d'approfondir l'analyse de la  problématique mondiale et de poursuivre ses études prospectives sur l'évolution du monde.
(27.14) Nous qui ne faisons pas partie de ceux qui dominent l'univers, nous demandons à l'Unesco de  continuer à s'efforcer de rétablir l'équilibre en permettant aux peuples sur lesquels pèsent l'ignorance,  la domination ou la guerre de faire entendre ici leur voix. Mais nous lui demandons aussi de ne pas  devenir seulement un lieu de récriminations politiques et militaires,
(27.15) L'action que vous proposez dans le Plan à moyen terme au titre de la seconde mission assignée  à l'Unesco, avec les grands programmes "L'éducation pour tous' et "La communication au service des  hommes”, doit demeurer la raison d'être fondamentale de l'Organisation et mérite un effort encore beau-  coup plus important et plus soutenu que ne 1'envisage le Plan,
(27.16) Au titre de la troisième session, nous demandons à l'Unesco, dans le cadre de son sixième  grand programme, "Les sciences et -leur application au développement'', d'éveiller la conscienze des  gouvernements et des peuples pour que l'informatique, avec les prodigieuses possibilités qu'elle offre,  ne franchisse pas trop tard les portes de nos écoles, des écoles du Tiers Monde, car il se créerait alors  un abîme infranchissable entre les pays développés et le reste du l'humanité.
(27.17) Nous demandons à l'Unesco de se souvenir que ce sont les enfants qui entrent cette année à  l'étole primaire qui obtiendront leur diplôme professionnel en l'an 2000 ; ils seront donc les derniers  produits du système éducatif du deuxième millénaire et c'est à travers eux que nous aborderons le  troisième millénaire. Cette génération et celles qui suivront comptent sur l'Unesco, sur nous et sur  le Plan à moyen terme. Puisse le Projet de plan dont nous discutons aujourd'hui porter des fruits qui  permettent à la société du troisième millénaire de vivre dans la paix et dans la liberté, sous le signe  d'une large coopération internationale qui rende possible une juste distribution de la richesse et per-  mette à chaque pays, à chaque communauté et à chaque individu de trouver le bonheur et la voie de son  développement propre. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.  Tha PRESIDENT:
1 thank the Head of the Delegation of Colombia. I give the floor to Comrade Goshu Wolde,  Minister of Education and Member of the Central Committee of COPWE, Head of the Delegation of  Ethiopia.
29.1 Comrade WOLDE (Ethiopia):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, fellow delegates, may I  begin, Mr President, by conveying the congratulations of the delegation of Socialist Ethiopia to  you on your uranimous re-election to the position from which you will have the responsibility of  guiding the work of this fourth extraordinary session of the General Conference of Unesco. This  Conference, Mr*President, is of great significance in the history of our Organization. Fourteen  years ago, at the fifteenth session of the General Conference, we embarked upon the task of  defining a framework within which the various programmes generated by Unesco in fulfilment of  its constitutional responsibilities could be considered in a more integrated way over a longer  period than the biennial programmes allowed.
29.2 Associated with the feeling that a longer term planning framework would give a clearer  sense of direction and purpose to Unesco's programme of activities was the thought that an  overall assessment should be made of the state of the world in areas relating to Unesco's special  fields of competence. It was considered that this assessment would lead to the identification of  particular problem areas which would be generally recognized by Member States as meriting a  sense of urgency in the search for solutions. Also associated with these generally felt needs for  the analysis of world problems and then agreement on an internally consistent plan of action,  programmed over a more realistic period of years, was the feeling that the definition of  objectives and the setting of targets would permit us to measure, from time to time, what has  been achieved, and to recognize the areas in which the allocation of resources in response to a  proposed strategy had not produced the desired results.
29.3 Mr President, the significance of this extraordinary session of the General Conference is  that we have now arrived at the situation where, having passed through the first experience of  plan formulation and implementation, having developed the first rudimentary tools of evaluation  and having applied experience and further scientific analysis to the task, we now have before us  carefully considered proposals for action taking us to the end of the eighth decade of this  century.
29.4 There is no doubt, Mr President, in the minds of the delegation of Ethiopia, that all this  effort has been very worthwhile indeed. The statement in the report on the evaluation of  activities carried out under the first Medium-Term Plan that Unesco's first Medium-Term Plan was  beyond any doubt the first attempt by an organization of the United Nations system to draw up  a systematic and coherent six-year plan with a fixed-term horizon for the whole range of its  activities is irrefutable and extremely encouraging. Today we embark on stage two.
29.5 In underlining the significance of this session, at which we will reach agreement on the  steps to be taken in ensuring continuing progress along the road on which we have embarked,  we must be sure to place a firm and clear mandate for effective action in the hands of our  Director-General. The central objective should be to bring tangible progress to the very wide  section of mankind which has yet to approach a level of existence which is meaningful in human  terms.
29.6 In line with the main purpose of this session, which is to consider the major lines of policy  and strategy which should guide Unesco in the years to come, I will confine my remarks to some  very general observations. Let me say first, however, that we have found the recommendations  by the Executive Board concerning the major issues related to the Plan, which are submitted in  document 4 XC/7, to be most useful and stimulating. Not only is it clear that the Executive  Board has conducted a very thorough study of the Draft Plan; it is also clear that the  Director-General, through his clear and frank explanations, has made a significant contribution  towards securing the broad basis of agreement and support for action which the Organization will  need during the coming years.
29.7 My delegation, in preparing for this General Conference, conducted its own review of the  Draft Plan and listed many points of concern, apparent omission, or what was thought to be  inadequate emphasis. However, we find that many of these points have been very adequately  covered in the Director-General's presentation to the Board and in his detailed reply to the  Board's discussion on the Draft Plan.
29.8 Consequently, the delegation of Ethiopia feels able to state very clearly here that the  Draft Plan, supported by the elaboration given at the 115th session of the Exeuctive Board and  reinforced by the presentation made by the Director-General in his opening address to the  Conference this morning, together define a very realistic plan of action which reflects very  closely the position of my government.
29.9 I should like to add that the Ethiopian delegation sees a great deal of innovation in  document 4 XC/4. Here also we find a noteworthy response to the wishes of the General  Conference. Of great interest is the innovatory major programme devoted to principles, methods  and strategies of action for development. In many ways, Mr President, we find this to be the  most effective piece of writing in a well-written document. Our delegation also welcomes the  efforts made in various sections of the Draft Plan's proposals to place the whole question of  cultural identity in a clearer and firmer framework in a way which leads to a far more balanced  approach to this issue. Thirdly, our delegation welcomes the innovative presentation in
106   Chapter XIV of questions related to the status of women, and the clear indication that these  questions permeate the whole range of Unesco activities.
29.10 The personal contribution made by Mr M'Bow in guiding the Organization to this level of  preparation is very great. It should receive the warm acclaim of the General Conference. Indeed,  it is our view that, in its final version, the Medium-Term Plan would be much enhanced by the  incorporation, at several points, of references to the positions taken by Mr M'Bow during his  discussions with the Executive Board.
29.11 May I now make a few general remarks concerning the analysis of the current condition of  mankind and the proposals for action developed for our consideration. I must stress,  Mr President, that none of the issues to which I shall refer very briefly have been excluded  from the proposals in the Draft Medium-Term Plan. They are all there. My remarks are designed  only to stress the importance of energetic action in some areas.
29.12 The first relates to the complex of questions which deal with peace, international  understanding, the freedom of the peoples, human rights and the elimination of prejudice,  intolerance, racism and apartheid. It is the view of my government that these acute problems,  which are adequately presented in the analysis of the world situation, should be given a more  prominent position in the Plan and reflect the priority which must be attached to concerted  action in these fields.
29.13 The seriousness of the problems with which mankind is now faced in ensuring the rights  of peoples has been forcefully and very unfortunately demonstrated to us in the actions this  year which led to the totally unwarranted massacres in the camps of Sabra and Shatila in West  Beirut. These were clearly directed at the elimination of a Palestinian community. Such acts call  for strenuous condemnation. They are in direct contravention of the very principles for which  Unesco stands.
29,14 It is our view that Unesco, which had its origins in an immediate reaction to the horror  of the experiences of the last global conflict, must now take an even more open and energetic  stand, as an organization, for peace, and the elimination of all forms of prejudice. For example,  on our own continent, Mr President, we are faced with the institutionalized racism of South  Africa, a state which defies the United Nations and which is daily waging war on the territories  of neighbouring Member States. Here lie the seeds of more extensive conflict andd human  suffering. We look to Unesco for an increase in pressure; not only on the apartheid rulers in  Pretoria but also on all other governments which associate with, and support this deplorable  regime. Nor should Unesco remain indifferent to attempts by certain circles in collusion with  racist South Africa to delay the independence of Namibia. The rights of the Namibian people to  speedy independence under the leadership of SWAPO, their sole and legitimate representative,  should be underlined by the General Conference at this session.
29.15 Our second major concern views another condition of mankind which affects all  programmes in the Draft Plan. This is the serious question of the state of our global information  system and the related question of access to knowledge. We are firmly of the opinion that an  essential task to be tackled in the Second Medium-Term Plan is to bring about a viable and  functional new information order, and to achieve a fundamental reordering of the present  inequitable system and flow of information. Specifically, we would wish to insist that close  co-operation continues between Unesco and the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) to  bring about the necessary reordering of infrastructures, including the revision of tariffs. We  strongly support activities which would strengthen the position of the International Programme  for the Development of Communication (IPDC).
29.16 In the field of culture, Mr President, as the Director-General has emphasized, we are  again involved in issues which have an impact on the whole Draft Plan. Our view is, however,  that this programme calls for closer examination of the actual problems faced by the majority of  the world's population, and it should identify a larger element of practical support in the  solution of these problems. 1 offer two examples, Mr President, one general and the other  specific, of areas where action should be taken. First, would it be too much to ask this global  gathering of Member States assembled in the interests of cultural co-operation to develop, with  the assistance of Unesco, a method of stirring the world's conscience so as to encourage the  voluntary return to their rightful owners of important cultural objects acquired in dubious  circumstances? Can such a movement be generated spontaneously, or do we have to ask Unesco  to include the compilation of an ‘inventory of illegal acquisition' in the Second Medium-Term Plan  in order to arouse our consciences? My specific example, Mr President, relates to the current  efforts we are making to prevent the rapid elimination of aspects of our national cultures. We  note that one institution established for this purpose, the East African Centre for Research of  Oral Traditions and National Languages, is now in an extremely difficult position due to lack of  adequate support. There must be many similar cases where the need is urgent and where greater  support would help the cause of cultural identity.
29.17 On education, Mr President, the issues affecting the African continent were thoroughly  explored at the recent MINEDAF V Conference in Zimbabwe, and the position of African Member  States has been clearly expressed in the resolutions stemming from that Conference. The African
4   Member States have demonstrated a consistency of purpose growing from the experience gained  since the first regional meeting in Addis Ababa in 1961. Education has been linked to the general  development framework not only at MINEDAF V but also through the importance given to human  resources in the Lagos Plan of Action. The problem is, of course, our shortage of economic and  technical resources.
29.18 The view of my government, Mr President, is that, although we are prepared to mobilize  our efforts to achieve self-reliance and to sacrifice current consumption for future benefit in the  development of programmes which reflect the objectives and policies developed in our Unesco  forums, there remains a large and growing resources gap. My government is therefore happy tu  see that careful consideration wili be given by the Secretariat to the recommendations formulated  at the recent meeting on the Least Developed Countries' Needs and Priorities in regard to  Education in Paris, as well as to the resolutions adopted in Harare. Specifically, it welcomes the  suggestion to launch a major project for the development of education in the African region. We  ask only that this will not be delayed until 1985.
29.19 On a more general level, our delegation has taken note of the discussion in the Executive  Board on the question of whether or not a special programme for the LDCs is required in the  Medium-Term Plan to reflect the objectives of the United Nations Substantial New Programme of  Action for the 1980s. We accept the position that such a programme does not perhaps require  separate definition. However, it will be necessary to ensure that, in all the areas listed by the  Director-General, and in other areas which may be identified at this extraordinary session of the  General Confrence, adequate support is given to the activities which are required in the LDCs.  The Ethiopian delegation therefore states that it will ask for a special analysis, as an integral  part of document 4 XC/4, which will indicate the degree to which the previously expressed  wishes of the General Conference have been met in this respect.
29.20 Our assumption is that the preparation and definition of future C/5 documents will stem  absolutely from the approved version of document 4 XC/4. We suggest that a logical extension  and an elaboration of the Unesco planning exercise would be the preparation of regional medium-  term plans, rtemming from the global objectives, strategies and programmes defined in docu-  ment 4 XC/4, but bringing the definition to the level of regional planning in the future. We hope  that such a possibility may be seriously considered by the Secretariat.
29.21 My last general comment, Mr President, is that the Government of Socialist Ethiopia very  much appreciates and supports the conceptual framework which has resulted in the identification  of five major tasks against which all other actions could be considered. The continuing thorough  study of the problems which face us, the widest possible participation by individuals and by  groups in the process of forward movement, the strengthening of problem-solving capacity, the  facilitation of the processes of change towards something better and the encouragement of human  unity and solidarity, as essential conditions for other tasks, is a noble eneavour. Reference to it  would perhaps merit inclusion in the Unesco Constitution, thus relating the goals of our  Organization more closely to current realities.
29.22 In facing up to these urgent responsibilities, Unesco has the full support of the  Government of Ethiopia, which has adopted in its national development strategy a framework  which reflects much of the basic thinking expressed in the Draft Medium-Term Plan. Ethiopia's  Ten-Year Development Plan thus provides an appropriate mechanism for full participation in  Unesco's future programme of activities. Thank you, Mr President.
30. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Ethiopia. 1 give the floor to the Honourable Mrs Jean  Broward Shevlin Gerard, Ambassador, Permanent Representative to Unesco, Head of the  Delegation of the United States of America.
31.1 Mrs GERARD (United States of America):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates: it was said, a generation ago,  that Unesco's mission was 'the noblest and most important... that men have been able to  conceive'. 1 believe this to be true, both personally and as the representative of a country that  can point with pride and satisfaction to thirty-seven years of commitment and support.
31.2 Since November 1945, when the Constitution of Unesco was adopted, my government has  supported the Organization both financially and intellectually, confident that it could strengthen  the possibilities for peace and security through education, science, culture and communication.  From the collaboration of the poet Archibald MacLeish in writing the stirring prologue of the  Constitution, to the ongoing contacts between Unesco and great numbers of American  intellectuals, the United States has proudly participated in the international dialogue that Unesco  was created to foster.
31.3 The membership of Unesco has grown, since 1945, from 26 to 158 nations, and the  Organization's programmes have become increasingly wide-reaching, catalytic, diversified and, at  times, controversial. They have brought the light of education, science, culture and improved  communications to all peoples and to all parts of the world.
31.4 Because the flame of hope and faith in Unesco's mission still burns brightly, we take  seriously the new beginning which the presentation of the Second Medium-Term Plan constitutes.  We stated our views on the Draft Plan quite clearly at the 114th session of the Executive Board,  and have since then pursued a constructive dialogue with other Member States, and the  Director-General, which we look forward to continuing during the days to come.
31,5 The First Part of the Draft Medium-Term Plan is a catalogue of contemporary world  realities. The emphasis upon individual human rights, upon the rights of peoples to  self-determination and upon the essential role of the individual in development is a powerful  reaffirmation of the values embodied in Unesco's Constitution.
31.6 But, here as elsewhere, people of goodwill can honestly differ on various points. While, in  a very large measure, we share the Director-General's vision of a better world, Major  Programme 1, 'Reflection on world problems and future-oriented studies', causes us some  difficulties. We continue to believe that Unesco's role is not so much theoretical as practical.  Strong support for Unesco will emerge when we promote concrete programmes of technical and  developmental benefit to peoples. The late Torres Bodet, the respected Mexican educator who  also served as Unesco's second Director-General, wisely said: 'We must find our way out of the  maze in which theorists might wish to keep Unesco indefinitely... The world is waiting while we  carry on our discussions’.
31.7 We would like to see a closer union of thought and action. We believe in the necessity of  serious study and reflection. However, we believe that this can and should be a normal, ongoing  part of the Organization's activity, and need not constitute a separate programme calling for a  global, future-oriented study that would embrace the whole range of world problems.
31.8 We propose making periodic reports on problems and trends, based on the Organization's  practical experience in implementing its approved programme, in the C/3 document or in the  C/5 document. We have submitted a draft resolution to this effect. We ask for your support for  it because we believe Unesco should reinforce its action-oriented programmes and funnel its  limited resources in the direction of the world's most pressing needs. It would be unfortunate if  we heeded the Appendix of the Draft Medium-Term Plan and reduced the budgets of such valued  activities as those reflected in Major Programme IV, on education policies, and in Major  Programme X, which is the major science programme, in favour of more theoretical programmes.
31.9 Mr President, Major Programme 11I, on communication, is being dealt with--as we know--in  Commission 1. However, 1 have two important comments to make here. First, 1 would like to  thank the Director-General for the flexible attitude he showed in responding to a number of  points which 1 and other members of the Executive Board made at the last session of the Board.  Second, there remain some very important problems in the field of communication which must be  resolved if we are to keep these programmes on a practical course, emphasizing programmes  which lead to the development of communication. Unesco must also promote the free flow of  information, recognizing that barriers are often imposed by the state itself. Here, we believe  some changes are important to bring Major Programme 111 into line with the views and values of  many Member States.
31.10 The obscurity of Major Programme VIII, 'Principles, methods and strategies of action for  development’, may be the result of the inherent complexity of development itself. But polemics,  and the antagonism in rhetoric which passes value judgements on certain systems, are distinctly  unhelpful and should be eliminated. The industrialized world is not the sole cause of the  developing world's problems, as such rhetoric would infer.
31.11 This programme, moreover, appears to sit within the Draft Plan as a set of disembodied  ideas without clear organic links to the sectoral mechanisms that will carry them out. Although  this is a policy document and not a draft programme and budget, we would nevertheless be well  served by a clear indication of how these principles, methods and strategies will be translated  from the rhetorical to the real.
31.12 Having said this, we believe that country profiles, project identification, pilot projects and  increased fellowships are sound initiatives. The substantial increase of Unesco fellowships from  the present 1,000 per year to 15,000 in 1989 is admirable in principle, but such a quantum leap  poses administrative problems. We can support it, on condition that adequate planning is done,  and that funding is found without a budget increase.
31.13 One of our major concerns about this chapter--namely that Unesco might be turning into a  funding agency--was alleviated in the Director-General's response to the Executive Board debate.  However, while there is a demand, both here and elsewhere in the C/4 document, for a massive  transfer of science and technology to the developing world, paradoxical recriminations are made  to the effect that that modernization brought about by such transfers erodes cultural identity.
31,14 We believe that progress in development requires an attitude of partnership, and this  chapter does little to encourage such an attitude. I represent a country which believes firmly in  development and in a better future for all of mankind. It also believes that the light of social  progress must include within its spectrum the colours of all the cultures of the world. We do not
4   believe this to be incompatible with scientific and technological progress, provided that the  process is undertaken in a spirit of goodwill and mutual trust.
31.15 Finally, we believe that the programmes in education and science presented in Chapters IV  and X have the potential of making a greater contribution to development than those in  Chapter VIII. We are opposed, therefore, to increasing the funding of Major Programme VIII at  their expense, as is proposed in the Appendix to the Draft Medium-Term Plan.
31.16 Mr President, our concerns with regard to Major Programmes XII and XIII fall into two  broad categories. The first is procedural and jurisdictional; the second is substantive. While  some overlapping in the responsibilities of various United Nations organizations is probably  inevitable, we must strive to avoid duplication if we are to make the best use of scarce  resources. Chapters XII and XIII both contain programmes which duplicate activities already  dealt with elsewhere.
31.17 On the matter of substance, Article I, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Unesco states  that our purpose is 'collaboration among the nations through education, science and culture in  order to further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for the human rights and  fundamental freedoms which are affirmed for the peoples of the world, without distinction of  race, sex, language or religion, by the Charter of the United Nations'.
31.18 These vital, universal goals of justice, the rule of law and human rights are the  perspective from which Major Programmes XII and XIII must be viewed. Discriminatory  selectivity, or a double standard in regard to these rights, have no appropriate place in Unesco.
31.19 Mr President, the United States shares the broad objectives contained in Major  Programme XII. My country has made it clear, time and again, that it abhors all forms of racism,  that it holds apartheid and all other forms of racial discrimination to be totally incompatible with  universal standards of justice and human dignity.
31.20 But there are, unfortunately, many other instances of discrimination based on race, ethnic  origin and religion which are not addressed in Major Programme XII. Nor does it address another  form of discrimination which is also expressly proscribed in the Universal Declaraticn of Human  Rights, but which is all too common: discrimination based on political or so-called 'deviant'  opinion.
31.21 My delegation believes that, on the one hand, a consolidation of those programmes in  Chapter XII which are redundant and which duplicate programmes in other forums and, on the  other hand, a broadening of the chanter to make it universal in application can remedy these  deficiencies. In addition, there are paragraphs dealing with communication which imply some  degree of control of the media which the United States opposes. Also, we have reservations on  those paragraphs which refer to co-operation with national liberation movements.
31.22 Turning to Major Programme XIII, 1 wish to emphasize that the United States has made  human rights the corner-stone of its foreign policy. From our early history, our founding  fathers emphasized that commitment. It reflects not only our national spirit but also our deter-  mination to defend and strengthen the enjoyment of freedom, not only for our own people but for  all human beings everywhere. We were also a colonoy of a great power; if we emerged first into  independence and later into a leading position in the world, it was primarily due to the heroic  efforts and very hard work of our people. We are, therefore, fully conscious of the needs, prob-  lems and opportunities of other former colonies, and the American people have participated in  large measure in the provision of aid to other countries. We trust that the sacrifices and en-  deavours of our people will help to expand the area of freedom and will make human rights more  of a reality tor all mankind.
31.23 Mr President, my Government has a number of problems with Major Programme XIII. We are  concerned that the priority which Unesco has traditionally assigned to human rights appears to  have been abandoned. Human rights now comes last instead of first.
31.24 Our second preoccupation is with the shift in focus away from those basic human rights  which have been recognized in the international human rights instruments and which should be  central to Unesco's concerns. Let me make it absolutely clear that among the basic rights to  which I refer, and to which the United States is firmly committed, are: the sovereign equality of  peoples; self-determination and the related concept of free disposition of natural wealth and  resources in accordance with the principles of international law; and popular sovereignty. These  universally accepted rights, rather than rights which are at different stages of elaboration and  on which there is not yet widespread agreement, should remain the focus of Unesco's concerns.  None the less, we should maintain our awareness and examination of the rights of individuals,  human beings and peoples as they are constantly evolving.
31.25 Another problem has to do with the different nature of what have been called economic and  social rights, on the one hand, and civil and political rights, on the other. International ;  documents reflect substantial agreement with regard to the 'core' of basic human rights, that is
110   to say individual political and civil liberties. Freedom irom violations by governments of the  integrity of the person and the right to enjoy traditional individual liberties such as freedom of  speech, the press, religion, assembly, movement and freedom from discrimination are among  those which make up this core and which governments have undertaken to respect.
31.26 The situation is quite different when one considers what have been called economic and  social rights. Here, rather than simply limiting their sphere of authority over the individual,  governments are expected to accomplish certain positive action such as providing jobs,  unemployment insurance, a healthy workplace and so on. These acts are important, but they are  quite different in nature from the core of political and civil liberties. To say that a government  should not abridge freedom of the press, which governments are all too capable of doing, is one  thing. To say it must provide full employment, which few governments can do, is quite another.
31.27 Furthermore, we are wary of equating economic and social rights with basic political and  civil rights, because many human rights abuses are committed in the name of the former by  repressive regimes. These regimes often argue that the main task of government is economic and  social development, and that traditional rights of the individual must be subordinated to this  goal. In practice, this often serves as a pretext for the repression of individual liberties.  Governments should exist for the people, not people for their governments.
31.28 Mr President, what I urge is simply that we abide by the Constitution of Unesco in  furthering respect for justice and for the rule of law.
31.29 As for those parts of Major Programme XIII which address questions of peace and  international understanding, the principle which must guide Unesco's actions in these areas is  that of strict respect for the limits of its competence and for the responsibilities of other organs  in the United Nations system. The United Nations itself, not Unesco, is charged with direct  responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security; nor is Unesco the organ of  the United Nations system specifically charged with responsibilities for disarmament. Unesco's  principal contribution to peace and international understanding must be through carefully  conceived, balanced, objective, non-partisan programmes within its spheres of competence.
31.30 Mr President, it ought not to be necessary to discuss budget levels here, since planning  is essentially a process of determining priorities and general avenues of approach, rather than  deciding on funding levels. My Government continues to believe that the Medium-Term Plan  should avoid any indication of budget levels, growth rate or other quantitative measure in  monetary terms. It is the purpose of the appropriations resolution to establish budget levels.  None the less, I feel that I must reiterate my Government's strongly held view, namely that  Unesco and other international organizations must adopt a policy of the strictest austerity. There  must be no real growth--and indeed there should be some absorption of the costs of inflation.  These are difficult times, economically, for virtually all the Member States of Unesco, and it is  only right that the Organization should share in the austerity that is forced on its Member  States and their peoples.
31.31 This said, Mr President, we are firmly convinced that Unesco's programmes need not suffer  just because of a budget which does not provide for additional real funds. On the contrary,  such a budget could provide an opportunity and a challenge to focus on the elimination of un-  necessary expenses and of programmes which have outlived their usefulness. We firmly believe  that, by a judicious selection of action-oriented programmes, Unesco can work effectively at  current budget levels to bring the advantages of education, science, culture and communications  to those who need them most.
31.32 I also wish to note the importance of Chapter XIV. We shall speak to its contents in Com-  mission I, but I should like here to underscore the point that caretul attention to the role of  women across the entire spectrum of Unesco's activities is of the utmost importance and will be  of benefit to men and women alike.
31.33 Finally, Mr President, let me assure all those who have worked so diligently and creatively  on the Draft Medium-Term Plan that we appreciate their efforts. It is a solid beginning which  will lead us, I hope, to a refined and streamlined document that will serve Unesco and its  Member States for many years to come. My understanding of the decisions taken yesterday in the  General Committee is that this extraordinary session of the General Conference will entertain  changes in the text of the Draft Plan which are of a policy nature or contribute guidance on impor-  tant issues of policy and direction. My government has directed me to suggest such changes in  the sincere hope that they will be fully considered in this meeting and later by the Director-  General as he continues to elaborate our Draft Medium-Term Plan.
31.34 We shall be particularly attentive to the manner in which the views expressed here are  translated into the final planning document. Even though this General Conference may not  abrogate its responsibility to consult and discuss this draft of the Second Medium-Term Plan, we  joined in the General Committee's decision with the clear understanding that we would all strive  for consensus once it is finally revised. In this way, we hope eventually to support programmes  and activities that will be of benefit to people everywhere in the world.
31.35 If, together, we work in this spirit here during the next two weeks, we shall ensure that  the hopes and expectations of so many people who look to Unesco as a beacon of truth and  mutual understanding ‘vill not be disappointed.
31.36 Thank you, Mr President.
32. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the Head of the Delegation of the United States of America I give the floor to our  last speaker, H.E. Mr Claudio Malo Gonzales, Minister of Education and Culture, Head of the  Delegation of Ecuador.
(33.1) M. MALO GONZALEZ (Equateur).- (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Monsieur le Président, après vous avoir félicité pour votre réélection et avoir remercié les respon-  sables de l'élaboration du Projet de plan à moyen terme, je formulerai quelques brèves remarques sur ce  document.
(33.2) La société statique dans laquelle la sagesse du groupe se transmettait de génération en génération,  et avec elle un ensemble structuré d'attitudes, de croyances et de valeurs destiné à maintenir un ordre,  d'autant meilleur qu'il était plus rigide, a vécu. Si le changement apparaissait autrefois comme un élé-  ment étranger et toujours suspect, il est aujourd'hui le pivot de nos sociétés, dont nous avons tendance à  mesurer la réussite à l'importance des changements qui s'y sont produits. Le progrès entendu comme un  ensemble et une succession de changements par lesquels les sociétés intègrent les réalisations de la  science et de la technologie, est quasiment devenu une religion.
(33.3) Les rêves et les prédictions des panégyristes du progrès, qui voyaient en celui-ci la panacée  capable de guérir tous les maux de l'humanité et un moyen infaillible d'égalité sociale, ont été radicale-  ment et parfois cruellement démentis par les faits. Le progrès technologique et scientifique, qui a  atteint des proportions gigantesques dans les pays qui disposaient au départ de bases plus solides, ne  fait que s'amorcer dans les pays qui se trouvaient dans une situation moins favorable. Le développement  scientifique et technologique n'a pas permis de combler le fossé entre pays riches et pays pauvres ; au  contraire, il a contribué à le creuser.
(33.4) Le développement de la science et de la technique n'a pas beaucoup contribué non plus, du moins  jusqu'à présent, à faire régresser l'oppression et le colonialisme et à renforcer l'indépendance et la  coopération internationale ; tout au contraire, en augmentant la puissance des forts, il tend à ruiner les  espoirs d'égalité des faibles. Quand un transfert de technologie a lieu, il s'effectue souvent dans des con-  ditions telles que, loin de réduire la dépendance, il l'accentue, Les possibilités de développement des  pays pauvres sont extrêmement limitées et, lorsqu'elles existent, les coûts économiques et culturels en  sont si élevés que la tentation d'y renoncer est grande.
(33.5) En outre, les stratégies du progrès sont unilatérales. La machine et la médecine arrivent dans  des communautés imprégnées de sagesse millénaire, où elles détruisent sans pitié et sans explication  ce que des générations ont façonné et préservé pendant des siècles, La toute-puissance de la technique  et des technocrates contemporains leur confère parfois une arrogance qui les empêche de voir les autres  cultures, de les respecter, de les expliquer et de concevoir des changements et des innovations à l'échelle  de l'homme, c'est-à-dire qui aillent de pair avec la compréhension et l'acceptation de ceux dont la vie  doit en être affectée.
(33.6) La structure du monde contemporair, avec les différences considérables et profondes qui le  caractérisent et les frustrations continues des pays pauvres, qui risquent d'exploser dans le sang et  la violence, rendent indispensable une planification à moyen terme. L'étendue des problèmes est telle  que tout retard dans l'action peut être tragique et que toute action entreprise insuffisamment planifiée  peut nous entralner à commettre des erreurs impardonnables.
(33.7) On ne saurait insister assez sur l'importance de la présente session, Par la planification à  moyen terme, les générations actuelles contribuent de façon décisive à l'édification d'une société juste,  égalitaire et respectueuse de la créativité de l'homme.
(33.8) L'Unesco, qui est née sous le signe de la paix, qui a lutté pour faire passer du domaine de  l'utopie à celui de la réalité un ordre international respectueux de la diversité des façons d'être et de  concevoir la vie des peuples de la terre, et qui a agi en même temps avec détermination pour que tous  aient une juste part des bienfaits de la science et de la technique - dont les réalisations, même nées dans  un lieu donné, font partie du patrimoine commun de l'humanité - constitue le cadre le mieux approprié  pour ce dialogue. L'Unesco doit plus que jamais, conformément à la mission qui est la sienne être un  authentique laboratoire d'idées où tous les peuples du monde puissent venir sans crainte et sans complexe  exprimer leur vérité et un lieu où s'opèrent des synthèses utiles à l'humanité entière.
(33,9) La paix a toujours été une des valeurs les plus chères au coeur de l'homme, C'est sans doute  celle dont les vertus ont été le plus vantées, mais les tentatives faites pour l'institutionnaliser se sont  presque toujours soldées par un échec, Cette paix si convoitée ne pourr régner que s'il se produit un  changement réel dans l'attitude des êtres humains en ce qui concerne la sauvegarde ne ieurs droits,  quand l'expression "respect des droits de l'homme" cessera d'être un thème inépuisable de discours, y  compris pour les despotes qui enfreignent ces droits consciemment et systématiquement, et qu'elle  deviendra une véritable règle de conduite. Bien entendu, les principes dont s'inspire l'organisation des  Etats font que la connotation et ln portée de ces termes varient d'un pays à l'autre, de même que, dans  les différentes sociétés, la priorité accordée aux divers aspects des droits de l'homme par rapport aux  objectifs politiques, sociaux, économiques et culturels, mais il est possible de parvenir à un accord  minimal, a des formules de base qui puissent être acceptées et appliquées partout, chaque pays se  réservant ensuite de mettre l'accent sur tel ou tel aspect particulier.
(33.10) Partant de cette vérité irréfutable que la force est la négation du droit, l'Equateur renouvelle  une fois de plus dans cette enceinte internationale son refus total et catégorique de l'usage de la force  comrie moyen de créer le droit. Le droit élémentaire des peuples à l'intéprité de leur territoire et de  leur nabitat ne peut en aucun cas être transgressé par ceux qui, profitant de la supériorité que leur  procure la possession d'instruments de aestruction, prétendent faire prévaloir la déraison de la force  sur la force de la raison.
(33.11) Jusqu'à une époque assez récente, on faisait une distinction arbitraire entre peuples civilisés  et peuples incultes, méconnaissant ainsi une vérité fondamentale : à savoir que l'homme, par le simple  fait qu'il est homme, est créateur et possesseur de cultu ve. Une déformation ethnocentrique limitait la  culture à certaines formes de celle-ci, ignorant les cultures différentes. Ces dernières années, un grand  progrès a été réalisé à cet égard et l'on est revenu de cette conception erronée qui servait à justifier des  systèmes d'exploitation dont cercains ont mené au génocide, Toute politique culturelle doit être fondée sur  le principe de l'universalité de la culture : er effet, l'homme en tant que tel produit une culture dont il  est en même temps le produit, et cette capacité débouche sur une diversité extrêmement riche et féconde.  Le respect de l'être humain et des peuples passe par l'élimination de toute forme d'impérialisme culturel  due au complexe de supériorité de certains pays qui tirent vanité de la situation plus favorable dont ils  jouissent au plan économique et technologique.
(33.12) Il convient de souligner l'importance qu'a la culture populaire dans la formation de l'Ame des  peuples. Parler de culture populaire il y a quelques années seulement eût été une contradiction dans les  termes, car le terme de culture était étroitement associé aux modes de vie, aux conceptions et aux  modèles d'expression esthétique des élites qui détenaient le pouvoir politique et économique et qui pro-  jetaient leurs structures mentales sur les pays dits développés. Populaire était au contraire synonyme  de grotesque, de grossier et d'inculte, Dans ce contexte faussé, diffuser la culture consistait à détruire  les formes d'expression authentiques et spontanées du peuple pour les remplacer par d'autres, étrangères  à sa réalité.
(33,13) Il importe de renforcer la culture populaire, d'en encourager les manifestations, d'en tenir  compte dans les politiques culturelles en lui accordant la dignité qu'elle mérite et à laquelle elle a droit,  de l'intégrer au système éducatif formel et de stimuler son développement. Ce n'est qu'ainsi que nous  maintiendrons une identité culturelle authentique qui permettra aux nations de conserver leurs caracté-  ristiques propres et leur spécificité, sans pour autant renoncer aux bienfaits de la science et de la  technologie.
(33.14) Concevoir le développement des peuples en termes exclusivement économiques et technolojiques,  c'est courir le risque de donner le jour à des géants sans Ame, qui seront perpétuellement la proie de  profondes contradictions. Les planificateurs du développement intégré doivent prendre en compte très  sérieusement le développement culturel qui fortifie l'esprit des peuples ; sans cette énergie, qui puise  ses sources dans la culture populaire, nous ne ferions que bâtir des colosses aux pieds d'argile inca-  pables de résister au moindre obstacle.
(33. 15) Dans le cadre d'une culture authentique et complète, il convient de souligner combien est impor-  tante la question de la préservation du patrimoine culturel, ce patrimoine comprenant non sculement les  monuments mais aussi les modes de vie, lvs techniques, les conceptions de l'existence et les comporte -  ments face à la nature et au monde surnaturel. La préservation du patrimoine culturel ne consiste pas  uniquement, comme peuvent le laisser croître certaines théories simplistes, à sauvegarder les vestiges  du passé par simple curiosité, mais à mainte' .. vivante la culture des peuples par-delà les variations  de formes, nécessaires et inévitables compte tenu des caractéristiques de l'espèce humaine. Nous consi-  dérons avec beaucoup de sympathie les mesures juridiques et les gestes de bonne volonté allant dans le
116   sens d'une restitution à leurs légitimes propriétaires - les peuples qui les ont conçus et créés - des  biens culturels qui, par suite de circonstances historiques se trouvent aujourd'hui en la possession  d'autres pays.
(33.16) Les poliiiques culturelles des différents pays doivent être le résultat d'un juste dosage de  valeurs universelles et de valeurs nationales. Il n'est ni bon ni souhaitable de s'isoler totalement sous  prétexte de conserver intacte son identité culturelle, en privant ainsi des êtres humains des bienfaits de  la science et de la technologie produits en d'autres lieux de la planète ; mais ce serait également une  erreur monumentale et impardonnable d'adopter la position inverse et de renoncer à une richesse cultu-  relle acquise au long des siècles en se retranchant derrière une notion à courte vue et simpliste du  progrès et de la modernisation.
(33,17) La science et la technique doivent être au service de l'homme et non l'inverse. Filles doivent  conduire à une amélioration matérielle et spirituelle de ses conditions de vie, et non à une détérioration  - ou pire encore à une destruction - de celles-ci, A ce titre, la course démentielle aux armements à  laquelle participent malheureuserr ent la plupart des pays du monde ne laisse pas d'être extrêmement  préoccupante. Il ne s'agit pas seulement d'un mal qui atteint les grandes puissances en quête d'hégémonie  universelle, qui gaspil'ent des ressources en oubliant que d'autres peuples meurent de faim. Le mal  touche aussi des pays plus petits qui consacrent leurs maigres ressources à l'achat de matériels mili-  taires, au détriment de programmes fondamentaux de santé, d'éducation, de développement agricole,  etc,
(33.18) En outre, il convient de rationaliser les systèmes de transfert de technologie, en tentant d'éti-  miner les mécanismes de domination qu'ils dissimulent, et de mettre l'accent sur la recherche et l'actua-  lisation de technologies appropriées qui, parfois, ont été déclarées obsolères et donc abandonnées sans  autre forme de procès mais qui peuvent aujourd'hui! retrouver leur actualité, certains facteurs ayant radi-  calement changé : le coût de l'énergie par exemple,
(33.19) Il est peu de domaines où le développement technologique ait commis autant d'errements que  dans le domaine des communications ; pourtant, là encore, le tableau est le même. Ceux qui contrôlent  les moyens de communication tendent à les utiliser pour transmettre et diffuser unilatéralement leurs  idées sur la réalité et la conception qu'ils s'en font, les pays pauvres ne bénéficiant pas des mêmes possi-  bilités et ne disposant pas des moyens nécessaires pour faire entendre leur voix et empêcher que l'image  que d'autres transmettent d'eux ne soit parfois gravement déformée, Nous croyons que, dans ce domaine,  il convient de lancer des politiques fondées sur une utilisation équitable et démocratique des moyens  d'expression,
(33.20) La société de demain sera dans une large mesure ce qu’est le système éducatif d'aujourd'hui.  Si nous voulons une société égalitaire, juste, libre et créative, nous devons faire en sorte que les sys-  tymes éducatifs y conduisent, L'éducation constituait dans le passé un moyen efficace de maintenir les  structures existantes, un moyen de contrôle social destiné A bloquer toute innovation. Aujourd'hui, l'édu-  cation ne peut avoir les mêmes motivations ; non seulement ce n'est pas souhaitable mais, quand bien  même ce le serait, les conditions prévalant dans la société contemporaine ne le permettraient pas. Le  système éducatif doit se structurer en vue du changement et il doit avoir pour objectif le développement  équilibré des facultés intellectuelles pour que, au contraire de ce qui se passait autrefois, l'individu,  loin de vivre sur l'acquis de l'école ou de l'université, puisse utiliser ses connaissances de façon créative,
(33,21) Il convient de démocratiser l'éducation et de permettre à tous les êtres humains de profiter de  ses bienfaits, Il faut que les millions d'adultes qui n'ont pas eu la possibilité de fréquenter l'école aient  accès à l'alphabétisation. Celle-ci ne se limite pas à un enseignement mécanique de l'écriture et du calcul  élémentaire : elle doit susciter l'éveil des consciences pour permettre à chacun de faire face aux circons-  tances de l'existence avec un esprit critique et de manière créative. L'alphabétisation n'est pas une fin  en soi mais un moyen, Un instrument que doit utiliser celui qui en bénéficie pour se libérer selon sa con-  science et les valeurs propres à sa culture. Alphabétiser pour endoctriner, c'est utiliser un bon outil à  des fins perverses,
(33.22) C'est avec satisfaction et sans vanité que mon pays peut révéler qu'il a, au cours des trois  dernières années, consacré l'essentiel de ses efforts et des ressources considérables à l'élimination de  l'analphabétisme. Les résultats qu'il a obtenus sont très prometteurs, L'Unesco, qui nous a fait l'honneur,  cette année, de nous attribuer le Prix Noma pour notre programme d'alphabétisation bilingue et bicultu-  relle, nous a d'ailleurs encouragés dans cette voie.
(33.23) Mais cet effort d'alphabétisation n'aurait que des effets de courte durée s'il ne s'accompagnait  pas de mesures visant à éliminer la déscolarisation. Nous ne voulons pas d'analphabètes aujourd'hui et  c'est pourquoi nous alphabétisons ; nous n'en voulons pas demain et c'est pourquoi nous scolarisons au  maximum.
(33.24) Nous apportons notre appui enthousiaste au projet majeur en éducation de l'Unesco dont l'objectif  estd'éliminer l'analphabétisme et la déscolarisation en Amérique latine et dans les Caraibes d'ici à l'an
2000. C'est Quito qui a été désignée comme siège de ce vaste programme et ce choix garantit l'appui sans  restriction de l'Equateur.
(33.25) Toute personne qui bénéficie d'une éducation contracte une dette importante envers la société  qui lui a assuré cette éducation ; aussi, le système éducatif doit-il être réaliste et répondre aux besoins  du pays, tant matériels, sur le plan du développement économique, que culturels, sur celui du dévelop-  pement spirituel,
(33.26) Le système éducatif doit aussi être universel ; l'isolement n'est plus possible ni souhaitable et  nous ne sortirons pas de notre état de dépendance en ignorant ce qui se passe dans le reste du monde  mais en nous attachant à mieux connaître sa problématique et en intégrant, avec un esprit critique, ses  réalisations et ses succès.
(33.27) Dans les circonstances actuelles, l'éducation ne peut dépendre uniquement des ressources et des  organismes spécialisés dont disposent les Ftats dans ce secteur. L'éducation revêt une telle complexité  et une telle importance qu'il est indispensable que tous les secteurs y participent : si l'un des objectifs  de l'éducation est le développement agricole du pays, par exemple, les organismes techniques agricoles  ne sauraient rester de simples spectateurs du processus éducatif ; s'il s'agit, grâce à l'éducation, d'amé-  liorer l'état de santé du peuple, il convient que les organismes de santé participent par des actions effi-  caces à la mise en oeuvre des programmes éducatifs ; ces exemples pourraient être étendus à tous les  secteurs dans lesquels l'Etat a un rôle à jouer.
(33.28) Le gouvernement équatorien appuie globalement le l’rojet de plan à moyen terme de l'Unesco  pour les années 1984-1989. Nous espérons que, plus riches des idées qui naftront de l'actuelle session  extraordinaire, nous pourrons définir avec lucidité les actions à entreprendre.
(33.29) Pour que les textes deviennent réalité, mon pays fera preuve de toute la vigilance dont il est  capable ; non pas d'une vigilance policière qui freine l'action mais de la vigilance de qui veut coopérer  avec les institutions internationales pour contribuer à les rendre plus efficaces : car cette efficatité  bénéficiera à tous, et en particulier aux pays qui, du fait de diverses limitations, se trouvent en position  d'infériorité par rapport aux pays nantis, Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
34,1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Ecuador.
34.2 Ladies and gentlemen, I would propose the adjournment of the meeting. As you know, we  agreed at our last meeting that tomorrow's morning meeting would begin at 9 a.m., since the  General Conference will have the privilege of receiving H.E. Mr Constantine Karamanlis,  President of the Hellenic Republic, who will address the plenary at 12.30. The morning meeting  will be suspended one hour earlier, at 11.30 a.m. Our debate will therefore only last for  two and a half hours tomorrow morning.
34,3 I must thank all the heads of the delegations who spoke today for respecting the time-limit  on statements. There were only one or two exceptions when statements exceeded the time-limit  by not more than one minute and twenty seconds. I am most grateful to you.
34.4 1 should also like to thank our technicians; the signalling mechanism functions perfectly.
34.5 We shall meet again tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock. The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 6.40 p.m.  La séance est levée à 18 h, 40  Se levanta la sesidn a las 18. 40