First plenary meeting
23 November 1982 at 10,10 a.m.  President: Mr MARGAN (Yugoslavia)  Première séance plénière
23 novembre 1982 à 10 h,10  Président : M. MARGAN (Yougoslavie)  Primera sesiôn plenaria
198211 H 23 HE 100 10 À  ER: HRHRE (RHE)   OPENING OF THE SESSION BY THE HEAD OF THE DELEGATION OF YUGOSLAVIA, TEMPORARY  PRESIDENT  OUVERTURE DE LA SESSION PAR LE CHEF DE LA DELEGATION DE LA YOUGOSLAVIE, PRESIDENT  PROVISOIRE  APERTURA DE I,A REUNION POR EL JEFE DE LA DELEGACION DE YUGOSLAVIA, PRESIDENTE  PROVISIONAL  OTKPHITHE CECCHH IJIABOR IEJETALUHKH IOTOCIABHH, BPEMEHHHM IMPENCENATEJEM  Ladd gf ge aby by + Bol ob pl GO US SP G90 dl plans  TER RE Lk ARR HD HK BTR A
1.1 Mr Ivo MARGAN (Yugoslavia), Temporary President:  Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, by virtue of the mandate which you conferred on me at the  twenty-first session of our General Conference, I have the honour and privilege of presiding at  the opening of the present session. In my capacity as Temporary President, I therefore declare  open this fourth extraordinary session of the General Conference of the United Nations  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
1.2 May I first extend a most cordial welcome to all of you, heads of delegations, delegates,  representatives, observers of non-Member States and international governmental and non-  governmental organizations, journalists and other representatives of the mass media and members  of the Secretariat.
1.3 It is also my special privilege to welcome here today Mr Miljan Komatina, President of the  Economic and Social Council of the United Nations. It is indeed a source of great satisfaction for  Unesco and in particular for the General Conference that the head of such an important policy-  making body of the international community is able to be with us for a part of our deliberations.
1.4 Ladies and gentlemen, before speaking about the main tasks with which we will have to deal  at this session, I wish to pay tribute to the memory of those who have left us since the last  session of the General Conference.
1.5 Several of our Member States have suffered the loss of their Heads of State. I refer to  President Ziaur Rahman of Bangladesh, President Mohamed Anwar El-Sadat of Egypt, President  Mohammed Ali Radjai of the Islamic Republic of Iran, President Jaime Roldos Aguilera of Ecuador,  Mrs Song Qing-Ling, Honorary President of the People's Republic of China, President Antonio  Guzman of the Dominican Republic, King Khaled of Saudi Arabia, President-elect Bashir Gemayel  of Lebanon, King Sobhuza II of Swaziland and Leonid Illyich Brezhnev, Chairman of the  Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR.
1.6 Around us we see a great number of familiar faces, of people who have followed the life of  the Organization for many years. But unhappily there are also-faces wkich we shall not see  again, such as those of former members cf the Executive Board, Mr Skeikh Mohammed Sharif  (Pakistan), Mr Odilon Mofo Seheri (Lesotho), Mr Hamid Frangie (Lebanon), Mr Luther Evans  (United States of America), who was also Director-General of Unesco from 1953 to 1958, Mr Paulo  de Berredo Carneiro (Brazil), member of the Executive Board since 1946, President of the  General Conference at its twelfth session and Chairman of the Drafting and Negotiation Group at  the twenty-first session, Professor von Merkatz (Federal Republic of Germany), Mrs Magda  Joboru (Hungary), President of the eighteenth session of the General Conference, Mr Archibald  Macleish (United States of America) and Mr Enrique Macaya-Lahmann (Costa Rica).
1.7 I now invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to observe one minute's silence in their memory and  in memory of all those whose names I have not mentioned and who contributed in some way to  furthering the ideals of Unesco.  (The Conference observed one minute's silence)
1.8 Permit me now, on a brighter note, to welcome into our Unesco family the new Member  States that have joined the Organization since the twenty-first session of the General  Conference: Antigua and Barbuda; Bahamas; Belize; Bhutan; and Western Samoa.  (Applause)
1.9 Today, Unesco numbers one hundred and fifty-eight Member States, and we are thus  moving ever closer to the true universality of our Organization. I hope that before long we will   be able to celebrate in this room the admission, as sovereign states, of those countries which are  not yet members.
1.10 In the past two years, the attention of our Organization has been concentrated on two  main tasks. The first has been the implementation of the programme and budget approved by the  General Conference at the twenty-first session. I have great pleasure in reporting that, thanks  to the dynamism of the Director-General and his Secretariat and to the active participation of the  Member States, the decisions of the last session of the General Conference are being successfully  implemented.
1.11 ~The second task has been the preparation of the second Medium-Term Plan. As you are all  aware, it is to discuss and approve the Draft of this Plan that the fourth extraordinary session  of the General Conference has been convened.
1.12 The resolution on the preparation of the Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989, adopted at the  twenty-first session of the General Conference in Belgrade, points out, and I quote, 'that many  global problems have now attained such a magnitude that they are increasingly affecting world  development, and that awareness of these problems has brought mankind new tasks in the cause  of preserving every opportunity for a decent life in the future and for further social progress'.  Unquote.
1.13 In this context, we particularly stressed at the Belgrade Conference that in the planning  process we have to proceed from the analysis of the international circumstances and conditions in  which the Medium-Term Plan is being adopted and at the same time determine the contribution  which Unesco should make to the solution of world problems.
1.14 The picture of today's world is indeed gloomy, especially in certain regions and in various  international relations. Let me only mention the existing chain of focal points of crisis, the arms  race, the sharpening of the world economic crisis and of the financial and monetary system in  particular, as well as the worsening of 'North-South' relations.
1.15 Elaborating further with respect to international relations today, we should particularly  emphasize the parallel and interdependent processes through which the world economic crisis is  acquiring ever broader and more dramatic dimensions, perhaps the broadest since the early  thirties. It is generally admitted that we are faced not with a merely cyclic phenomenon, but  rather with a more lasting crisis caused by deep changes in world economic and political  conditions and in the international balance of power.
1.16 Owing to the fact that international economic and political relations are mutually interlinked  and especially to the isolationism of certain groups, the conditions for internaticnal  agreement-making have deteriorated, and the framework of multilateral co-operation within the  United Nations system is facing new constraints.
1.17 Though this account of the facts may seem hard and pessimistic, we have to face the truth  and endeavour to draw the proper conclusions and lessons.
1.18 Something has to be done urgently to strengthen our international institutions and  multilateral mechanisms. We also need to develop new approaches which can prevent further  deterioration of international relations and lead to the more effective resolution of conflicts.
1.19 Indeed it is very obvious that one of the priority tasks of our time should be to strive to  endow the United Nations system with all the strength and capacities which would enable it to  fulfil its role of safeguarding international peace and stability, in the spirit of the United  Nations Charter.
1.20 Ladies and gentlemen, our Organization has for its part played the role of critic and  corrective agent in relation to many unfavourable developments in international political and  economic relations which have occurred since the twenty-first session of the General Conference.  Throughout this period, I have witnessed the decisive and persistent efforts of the  Director-General of our Organization, aimed at the proper and timely implementation of the  resolutions adopted by our General Conferences, as well as the steps he has taken to ensure the  implementation of the declarations, conventions and recommendations adopted by it. In the  preparation of the Draft Medium-Term Plan, the Director-General and his staff have in addition  succeeded in complying with a number of directives, those drawn up by the General Conference  at its twenty-first session and those formulated by the Board in 113 EX/Decision 4.1 adopted at  its 113th session. At the same time, the Director-General has given the fullest possible  consideration to the contributions made by individual Member States, by international  governmental and non-governmental organizations and by representatives of the international  intellectual community.
1.21 Having regularly attended the sessions of the Executive Board, I have been able to see for  myself the sincere commitment of the Chairman and members of the Board to the obligations and  responsibilities entrusted to them by the General Conference at its twenty-first session. Their   fidelity to the mission of Unesco in the contemporary world and their ability to give effect in  practice to the spirit and mesuing of the resolutions and decisions of the General Conference  have been a tremendous encouragement to me. The Board has been a source of optimism,  enabling me to believe firmly that Unesco, in spite of the difficult international political and  economic context in which it operates, honourably fulfils its share of responsibility in the  international community and, owing to the noble and peace-lovine character of its activities,  helps to reduce lack of understanding, intolerance or even hostility et the international level.
1.22 The Draft Medium-Term Plan is thus the fruit of the combined labours of Member States,  the Executive Board and the Director-General. It is, as you have been able to judge for  yourselves, a policy document of exceptional quality which clearly sets out the philosophy, the  priorities and the methods that should motivate and guide the Organization's activities during the  period 1984-1989, I wish to thank the Member States, the Chairman and members of the  Ex€cutive Board and the Director-General for this impressive result.
1.23 Ladies anc gentlemen, you are well acquainted with the international gatherings of a globe!  ‘and regional nature which have been held in recent years as well as with the resulting actions  and activities. These have clearly shown, once again, the strength of the ideals and aspirations  of those socio-political, educational, scientific and cultural circles in our Member States which  have worked to implement the programmes and policies elaborated and adopted by Unesco and  under its auspices. I am sure you will agree that Unesco should continue to seek the elimination  of all obstacles to the progress and development of mankind and also seek to make a substantial  contribution to the establishment of new patterns of international relations in all its fields of  competence. By their very nature, its activities in the fields of education, science, culture and  communication are inseparably linked to the development process itself; Unesco has thus, ipso  facto, become and asserted itself as a factor of peaceful international development.
1.24 If Unesco is really to contribute more effectively to the implementation of the century-old  endeavours of mankind to achieve peaceful development and prosperity, this should be clearly  stated again today in its second Medium-Term Plan, which we are discussing in the shadow cast  by an unprecedented arms race and deteriorated international relations. This Plan must mark and  determine a peaceful stage in world development and the promotion of international co-operation  in Unesco's fields of competence. It is thus that our Organization is sure to have a positive  effect on other areas of international relations and, hopefully, contribute to the relaxation of  international tensions, the elimination of threats to peace and the creation of the climate and  conditions in which international problems which today seem insoluble will one day be eifectively  solved.
1.25 By our decisions at this Conference, we must reinforce this essential international role of  Unesco and ensure the continuity of its activities. Hic et nunc!  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE/CONSTITUTION DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION  DES POUVOIRS/CONSTITUCION DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION DE PODERES/ CO3OAHHE KOMHTETA  MO MPOBEPKE MOJIHOMOUYHA / ,, nel BEL 5 dua) Ju ét / BAL @ATUER BR à
2,1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the establishment of the Credentials  Committee in conformity with paragraph 1 of Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference which reads as follows: "The Credentials Committee shall consist of nine members,  who shall be elected by the General Conference on the proposal of the Temporary President'. I  should thus like to follow the recommendation of the Executive Board contained in  paragraph 7.2 (b) of document 4 XC/2 and propose that the Committee have the same  membership as at the twenty-first session and consequently that the following countries be  re-elected to serve on this Commitee: Bulgaria, China, Gabon, Haiti, Iraq, Nepal, the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics, the United States of America and Zambia. Are there any objections to  the proposal that the Credentials Committee be constituted with the membership I have just  proposed?
2.2 There being no objections, it is so decided.
2.3 I recall that, in accordance with Rule 27, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference, the Credentials Commitee shall elect its own Chairman.
2.4 1 shall now suspend this plenary meeting so that the Credentials Committee may hold its  first meeting immediately in Room VI. It will present its first report as soon as it is ready to do  so.
2.5 Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is suspended.  (The meeting was suspended at 10.35 a.m., and resumed at 12.15 p.m.)   FIRST REPORT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE/PREMIER RAPPORT DU COMITE DE  VERIFICATION DES POUVOIRS/PRIMER INFORME DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION DE PODERES/  MEPBHA JIOKNALL KOMHTETA MO NPOBEPKE MOJIHOMOYHH folaesedl FEL0 5 pos ald JW mind)  ACER BR EF — KE
3. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is called to order. Unfortunately, we have encountered  a significant unexpected delay, and we should try and compensate somehow for the time lost. We  are now going to examine the first report of the Credentials Committee, and I give the floor to  its Chairman, Mr Krishna Raj Aryal.
4,1 Mr ARYAL (Nepal), Chairman of the Credentials Commitee:  Mr President, at its first plenary meeting on 23 November 1982, the General Conference,  in accordance with Rules 25 and 27 of its Rules of Procedure, established for its fourth  extraordinary session a Credentials Committee consisting of the following states: Bulgaria, China,  Gabon, Haiti, Iraq, Nepal, United States of America, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Zambia.
4.2 The Credentials Committee held its first meeting at 10.45 a.m. on the same day under the  temporary chairmanship of Mr Massuh, Chairman of the Executive Board. The Committee elected  as its Chairman Mr Krishna Raj Aryal (Nepal). In accordance with Rules 22 and 28 of the Rules  of Procedure of the General Conference, the Committee examined the credentials received by the  Director-General.
4.3 At the Chairman's request, the Legal Adviser informed the Committee in this connection that  the criteria for deciding whether credentials are in due form are laid down in Rule 22 of the  Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, which provides that the credentials of delegates  and alternates shall be issued by the Head of the State, the Head of the Government, the  Minister of Foreign Affairs or another Minister authorized by the Minsiter of Foreign Affairs to  issue the credentials.
4.4 The Committee was informed that in a communication addressed to its Chairman, the Head of  the Delegation of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam expressed reservations about the  participation of the delegation of Democratic Kampuchea in the work of the fourth extraordinary  session of the General Conference.
4.5 Speaking on behalf of all the Arab Member States of Unesco, the delegate of Iraq observed  that the credentials of Israel had been signed in the occupied City of Jerusalem. He stated that,  by so doing, Israel had contravened resolutions adopted by the General Conference. He  therefore expressed reservations about the credentials submitted by Israel. The delegations of  Gabon, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Bulgaria shared these reservations.
4.6 The delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics objected to the credentials submitted  in the name of Chile and Democratic Kampuchea. The delegate of Bulgaria also objected to them.  The delegate of China stated, however, that the credentials submitted in the name of Democratic  Kampuchea were in due form and should therefore be accepted.
4.7 The delegates of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Bulgaria observed that the  delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany included a person resident in West Berlin. They  said that his inclusion in the delegation constituted non-respect of the Quadripartite Agreement  concerning West Berlin. The delegate of the United States of America, however, disagreed with  this view. She stated that the Quadripartite Agreement had not in any way been violated by the  inclusion of the person in question in the delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany.
4.8 The Committee noted that reservations had been expressed by several delegations as to the  validity of the credentials of the delegation of Israel. The Committee further noted in this  connection that acceptance of those credentials cannot in any case be understood or interpreted  as recognition of the modification by Israel of the legal status of the City of Jerusalem.
4.9 The delegate of the United States of America urged the Committee to recommend to the  General Conference the accpetance of all creder*ials which satisfied the formal requirements laid  down in that respect by the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference.
4.10 Subject to what has already been stated concerning the credentials of Israel, the  Credentials Committee concluded that the delegations of the following Member States were duly  accredited in conformity with Rule 22 of the Rules of Prccedure of the General Conference by  documents issued by the Head of the State, the Head of the Government, the Minister of Foreign  Affairs or the Minister authorized to issue credentials by the Minister of Foreign Affairs:  Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas,  Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma,  Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Chad, Chile, China, Congo, Cuba,  Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea,   Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Dominica, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gabon,  Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guinea  Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jordan,  Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mali,  Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua,  Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Romania, Saint  Marino, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Socialist Republic of  Viet Nam, Somalia, Spain, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic,  Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern  Ireland, United States of America, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia  and Zimbabwe.
4.11 The Committee recommends that the delegations of the above-mentioned states be allowed to  take part in the work of the General Conference at its fourth extraordinary session.
4.12 The delegations of the following states have submitted credentials in the form of telegrams,  letters or other documents issued by a Minister other than a Minister of Foreign Affairs and not  so authorized by the latter by the head of a diplomatic mission, by a permanent delegate to  Unesco, or by a senior official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Botswana, Colombia, Dominican  Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, India, Madagascar, Netherlands, Norway, Peru, Rwanda,  Seychelles, Suriname, Tonga, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania.
4,13 The Committee, however, proposes that these documents be accpeted as provisional  credentials of the delegations of the above Member States, subject to later presentation of  credentials in due form, and that these delegations be meanwhile allowed to take part in the  work of the fourth extraordinary session of the General Conference.
4,14 The Committee then examined the credentials of the observers from the Holy See, a  non-Member State of the Organization. It recommends that these observers be admitted.
4,15 The Committee noted that a few Member States had not submitted credentials for their  delegations. The Committee decided to authorize its Chairman to report directly to the General  Conference on any credentials which might be submitted before it met again, on the  und«rstanding that the Chairman might convene the Committee when he considers it necessary.
4.16 Mr President, there was much goodwill and understanding in the Committee, and I am  grateful to all the Committee members. Thank you, Mr President.
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Credentials Committee and in particular its Chairman for the work  accomplished. Ladies and gentlemen, does anyone wish to speak? If not, ! take it that you wish  to adopt the First Report of the Credentiale Committee.
5.2 The report is adopted.
5.3 The delegate of the United Kingdom has the floor.
6.1 Mr FRY (United Kingdom):  Mr President, speaking on behalf of my government and of the Governments of France and  the United States of America, which are co-signatories of the Quadripartite Agreement of
3 September 1971, I wish to make the following statement in relation to the First Report of the  Credentials Committee.
6.2 Mr President, the three delegations concerned wish to observe that there is nothing in the  Quadripartite Agreement of 3 September 1971 which supports the contention that residents of  West Berlin may not be included in delegations of the Federal Republic of Germany to  international conferences. In fact, Annex 4 of the Quadripartite Agreement stipulates that,  provided matters of security and status are not affected, West Berlin residents may participate  jointly with participants from the Federal Republic of Germany in international exchanges.  Furthermore, as a matter of principle, it is for the Federal Republic of Germany alone to decide  on the composition of its delegation. Mr President, we would request that this statement be  recorded in the proceedings of the Conference. Thank you.
7. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you for your statement. The distinguished delegate of Syria has asked for the  floor.  RT 1 | Bp LB A AG)  [gout 105g pazfatl Balad] «pladl owt andl « Gambit doa ll punt) dl panBadl ent, Sod  IS sashoti |A) Locatio cB 001 030 gb yet) dE wid gl dl aye) Ge geredl pubs ST of J  + Jota)! Lod Lesalawy Leooding Alu il oad Jacl 5 las   Bin Jaw 55 Gadi 630 5 Ans yadl br gessedl Jiao ol olesedl Rly dad ods 9 fle add ALY  lon ole 3651 ca gai Grgeaedl pals iol 9 + Jott ml Slesst Glsl Joe le A mdl de peat  oid] LS doy anhalt (am 155 Jul pul JI al Js 130 Li gosse addin of gSar Lot Grol 155 kiss  ol pedi] aioe 98 aalifl ul Lane 51 Gal aoe — Vyl 1 Glo Los (pois 101 pale pause qi LeLu,SS  wl hiladl (pur du ,le «ian, gd] GV gti omis se san Last wad LoS spall fl 2b Lesnas Jott jul wads  el lS BLS, Wandin past _ Lls + pad gala) alll feat cpSupndl 5 Basia) po  tibia Lal Canal Gagan Gan, Lans doling « 390 Gd padl labial 5 wlinedl 5 sSusstl oe 3 uted]  Sa Sd! gall US GN dina fled yes) YBa) an CLobinoti p clin dl sae d3LS antral att 081  [ae + plSwdls ala¥l GSLOÏI 9 « GAY Gomi y © wy me Apte) Glogi diadldly « pL) Job) jul an cols  ol dal 5 Jylsol} sonnotl andi WIaSy Dogowty *Lusy JUibl pe Lybaadt SIT aioes wed SSII Gadd)  lao lad] 9 Gogol 561 yoy Guslitdl Lu ol 5 cha Lutin y SLY GS guy «bola ee Luehpotl 9 0 Lin odl 9  éshanotl 5 Gl ged! Golan Gru gid! ABS OH Ges pin arf and JS + gel add Lemar load) Les 9  GT Lion 105 idly die BUGS Leda pd Gut ally | ue vi Aa gl pol dell pn Ca ym  oh il aed] cam I) 13e ggedl 9 Flatt y JL ALI  LR LasSl pds 35 AS Go PE GR SN «à, yauatl 5 Gale di WLS YI ede JLo PPL RW ALY  Clo, oF Les sans Lu J5Y aS Le LUI GSI ge go épis | EL RY ll | _yado Bis JL,  edd pull debiied! se  ole Lie Loy> UIS5 a J 61 jul lane! Gls Jad de B,50d1 ode Gd bbs JS LadnsSt ad CCS 150, At  plat oF Lie Lolpol vo @dpandl Jysdl ds, ats Vey olan) anhed) 15) 5gased] wl gl  BL) ob Laden Basse Lua] Gls clea pe odie Gall Geld) abl ged] dadlae dod ad ptosdy jeshedl tos  + plati yosrels éooLäli 6,94) 9 Wold] ge adnate Los 115000 «fg gd gad  pra bad dL, lily gold 5 iemigmdl Slazdt lies GI SEL axpsl code uals pdf of Jo55 Ayo  a 59H SLasel Fol Jos ode hiss Go colezedl SI y5l ass dad gd sa padi ds gered] Joes  il Gaël Gay hale Goll Gal ge ppddeg | pads ond mer SSET LOS ejenbell Had lest ud  + bols pau LE SN  «14629 «pagel buds aoe 9 038 oe lS png Bis l zoe ol esadl gent, pus edl Ad! go 52,0 A
(8.1) Mr AHMED (Syrian Arab Republic) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates: I  should like to greet you on behalf of the Arab Group, of which I have the honour to be the Chairman at  this session, and to wish this Conference every success in its work for the good of mankind and its efforts  to achieve human progress and happiness and peace with justice.
(8.2) As noted in the report of the Credential Committee, the representative of the Arab Group on that  Committee expressed the reservations of the Arab Group about the acceptability of Israel's credentials. On  behalf of the Arab Group, I! should like to reaffirm those reservations as the minimum action this  Conference can take with respect to Israel's participation in the Conference, for the reasons which we  stated at the Belgrade Conference and which I may summarize as follows: first, the Israeli credentials were  issued in the City of Jerusalem, which Israel has annexed, just as it has subsequently annexed the Syrian  Golan Heights, in defiance of resolutions adopted by the United Nations and Unesco and in disregard of the  fundamental principles of international law; and second, Israel has consistently refused to abide by the  various resolutions adopted by Unesco and other international bodies and organizations, particularly  resolutions dealing with the rights of the Palestinian people; and this behaviour has been clearly and  unequivocally condemned by the bodies and organizations in question. We may add to the list the barbarous  assault launched by Israel against Lebanon and its savage bombing of the city of Beirut and other cities  and densely populated areas, to which bombing thousands of children, women and old men fell victim, and  also Israel's deliberate destruction of homes, schools, hospitals and other institutions, its pillaging of  archaeological artefacts, its looting of museums, cultural institutions, research centres and universities, and  its ruthless desecration of everything held sacred by a peaceful people whose ony crime is that they live  within the area included in the Zionist plan for colonialist expansion in the Arab world. Yet another factor  is the bloody massacres of Sabra and Chatila, which are unparalleled in history, and in which thousands of  children, women and old men of the Palestinian Arab people were put to death.
(8.3) Mr President, in vicw of such savage racist acts, of which I have mentioned only a few, it is clear  that by merely expressing reservations we were exercising great restraint in not taking positions which we  have taken previously, as we might rightly have done in response to these hideous crimes. However, we  have not abandoned those positions within this international Organization.
(8.4) The fact that we have merely expressed reservations, at this session, about the acceptability of  Israel's credentials is due to our wish to make good use of the limited time available to this extraordinary  session and our readiness to defer to the wishes of our fellow Member States, in order that we may help to  make this Conference a success, and in order that it may have a chance to deal with the important matters   for which it has been convened. We reserve the right, however, to raise the issue again, in all the detail  that it merits, at the next session of the General Conference.
(8.5) Before concluding my remarks, I should like to thank the representatives of the Soviet Union, Gabon  and Bulgaria for their support for the representative of the Arab Group in expressing reservations about  the acceptability of the credentials of the Israeli delegation to this Conference. I should algo like to thank  all those who have supported the rights of the Arabs generally, and those of the Palestinian Arab people in  particular, and those who may support those rights in future.
(8.6) Mr President, I should like to request that the reservations and the text of these remarks be  inserted in the record of today's meeting. Thank you.
9. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The next speaker on my list is the distinguished delegate of India.
10. Mr KAUL (India):  Mr President, we have learned with some surprise, as well as amusement that the  delegation of India has been only provisionally admitted to this session of the General  Conference. 1f this is due to the tardiness of the means of communication I can understand it,  because as far as I know our credentials were duly signed by the Foreign Minister of India and  communited to the Secretariat. I hope that this mistake will be rectified immediately. Thank you,  Mr President.
11. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Kaul. I think that in a very short time this will be settled. The  next speaker is the distinguished delegate of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
12. Mr MAKNOUN (Islamic Republic of Iran):  Mr President, in view of the outrageous, ruthless and inhuman deeds committed by the  occupying forces of Palestine, the Israelis, in their recent invasion of bleeding and suffering  Lebanon, we hereby ask the awakened conscience of participants and delegates: could the  so-called Israel, which--besides all its atrocities--has also destroyed the cultural heritage of the  Palestinian people before withdrawing from West Beirut, be a member of an organization of  international repute? We, however, go along with the Syrian suggestion, and think this is the  minimum that could be done. We would expect that, at the present time, such an honourable  stance would surely be inscribed in history as a courageous and human act. Thank you, Mr  President.
13. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The distinguished delegate from Guinea-Bissau has asked for the  floor.
14. M. da SILVA (Guinée-Bissau).-  Monsieur le Président, nous voudrions exprimer au nom du groupe africain notre appui aux  sentiments justement exprimés par le délégué de la Syrie. Nous constatons en effet avec amertume  et regret que les Israéliens veulent ignorer toutes les décisions et résolutions des organisations  du système des Nations Unies, organisations auxquelles pourtant ils tiennent à participer. Il  faudra que cette contradiction soit un jour résolue et ce jour, nous l'espérons, n'est pas éloigné.  Nous, membres du groupe africain, soucieux de renforcer le consensus auquel nous donnons notre  accord, estimons cependant qu'il est de notre devoir d'appeler l'attention de la communauté inter-  nationale sur ces faits importants. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
(14) M. PUTZEYS ALVAREZ (Guatemala) (président du Comité des candidatures).- (Traduit de l'espagnol.)  Monsieur le Président, la Commission II étant constituée et réunie, permettez-moi d'informer Mesdames  et Messieurs les délégués que le Comité des candidatures a décidé à l'unanimité de proposer la candidature  de M. l'ambassadeur Charles Hummel (Suisse) au poste de président de cette commission.
15. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. And now the distinguished delegate of Bangladesh wishes to take  the floor.
16.1 Mr MOMIN (Bangladesh}):  Mr President, the delegation of Bangladesh also wishes to support firmly the stand taken  by the Arab Group on the question of the acceptance of the credentials of Israel to the General  Conference. As these credentials are served in the City of Jerusalem, which was illegally  annexed, to which the General Conference took exception at its last session and raised  objections, and which the United Nations itself refused to recognize, we feel that these  credentials are not really valid. So we fully support the stand taken by the Arab Group in this  matter.
16.2 We also take this opportunity to point out the brutal aggression against Lebanon, the  destruction and inhumanities perpetrated there and the destruction of cultural monuments in  Lebanon. Thank you, Mr President.
17. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The distinguished delegate of Bulgaria has the floor.
18.1 M. MILANOV (Bulgarie).-  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais indiquer ici que la délégation de la République populaire  de Bulgarie à la session extraordinaire de la Conférence et celles des pays socialistes membres du  groupe électoral II, au nom de qui je parle, soutiennent le point de vue des pays arabes qui  vient d'être exprimé. J'ai eu l'occasion de faire connaître cette opinion au sein du Comité de  vérification des pouvoirs dont mon pays fait partie et dont nous venons d'entendre le rapport.
18.2 Il n'est pas du tout surprenant qu'une grande partie des Etats membres s'oppose à la recon-  naissance et à l'acceptation des pouvoirs d'Israël ; c'est, il faut le souligner, à juste titre, car il  ne fait point de doute que l'Etat d'Israël, et cela depuis bon nombre d'années, préconise et pra-  tique une politique de domination et de non-reconnaissance des droits légitimes du peuple arabe  de Palestine, une politique d'agression, d'occupation et d'annexion à l'égard des pays arabes  voisins. Le rôle qu'a joué Israël dans les événements tragiques récemment intervenus au Liban, sa  complicité avec ceux qui en sont responsables, confirment la nature agressive et inhumaine du  régime de Tel-Aviv.
18.3 L'opposition d'un si grand nombre d'Etats à la reconnaissance du droit d'Israël à participer  aux travaux de notre Conférence tient aussi au fait que cet Etat membre ne respecte pas les déci-  sions de l'Organisation des Nations Unies, ni celles de l'Unesco concernant différents domaines de  compétence de l'Organisation. Ainsi en est-il notamment des résolutions et recommandations adop-  tées par la Conférence générale ou par d'autres organes de l'Unesco en matière d'éducation, de  culture, de sciences sociales, etc. L'obstination avec laquelle Israël s'entéte à ne pas se conformer  aux décisions de l'Organisation est une conséquence logique et directe de sa politique agressive et  belliqueuse, une politique du fait accompli qui suscite l'indignation des forces progressistes du  monde entier ct mérite notre condamnation totale et sans réserve. C'est pourquoi je voudrais  m'associer à la proposition qui a été faite ici et qui tend à ce que soit rappelée dans le procès-  verbal de la séance la déclaration faite à ce sujet à Belgrade en 1980 lors de la vingt et unième  session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
19. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Milanov, The distinguished delegate of China now has the floor.
201 EX (FH):  TEAL, REKPBAEZAERELT FA.
902 HERE EA THF AF THM ERA Bg FUÉIE FAH ERE, RITR RH  Eide AR. EMA RA HM A EARR A Uap Re kerb, RP thie iL.
(20.1) Mrs YANG YUNG-YU (China) (Translation from the Chinese): i  Mr President, on behalf of the Chinese delegation, I should like to make the following statement.
(20.2) The Chinese delegation fully associates itself with the reservations expressed by the Syrian  delegate in the name of the Arab countries as regards the credentials of the Israeli delegation. We  resolutely support the Palestinians, the Lebanese and all the other Arab peoples in their struggle against  the invasion and expansion of Israel; we support all our Arab brothers.
(20.3) In the view of the Chinese delegation it is necessary to reiterate that the fact that the Afghan  delegation is being allowed to participate in this extraordinary session and to take the floor should by no  means be interpreted as acquiescence as regards the situation resulting from the occupation of Afghanistan  by foreign armed forces. Thank you, Mr President.
21. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The distinguished delegate of Cuba has asked for the floor.
(22) Mr GUEVARA (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the delegation of Cuba supports the proposals formulated by the  representatives of the Arab, African and socialist countries and reiterates its condemnation of a state  which, in presenting its credentials, once more violates agreements reached at international conferences. My  delegation declares its admiration for the countries which formulated the initial proposal and accompanied it  by a formal declaration of support for the conference and its work. Thank you, Mr President.
23. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. And now I have on my list the distin  of Soviet Socialist Republics. You have the floor.  guished delegate of the Union
24.1 T-H XWJIDBUEBCKHHN (Coins CopeTCKHX COUMAIIHCTHYECKHX Pecrnybnyi)  I'-H MpencegaTesrb, B CBH3H C HEOÔOCHOBAHHON MOMbITKOH OJHOH H3 NenerauxHH nocra-  BUTE MON COMHEHHE TONHOMOYH& NellerauHH 3aKOHHOTO TPABHTENBCTBA ApranncTaHa COBET-—  ckas nenerauns xoTesa 6H 3aHBHTb PelMTEJIbHEH MPOTECT MPOTHB Mo105Horo pona saxñBe-  HUN. Mm SHaem, YTO Heupyru aPraHCKOro Hapona MHTAal0TCH IMOMENATB CTPOHTENBCTBY  HOBO, IMONNHHHO MEMOKPATHYECKOÏ XH3HH B 3TOH CTPAHE. Ha CHoBpax OHM BLICTYnawT 3a  MONMTHYECKOS pelieHHe npobtjeMm, BC3HHKUMX BOKPYT AdraHucTaHa, à Ha nese npensar-  CTBYIOT ero MOCTHXEHHD, XOTH, Kak MOKAI3HBA@T XH3Hb, BO3MOXHOCTH [UIA TAKOTO  PEleHKH eCTh.
24.2 MaMATYS © NpH3HBE KO BCeM peneraraMm KOHPEPeHLHH SAHATBCH PACCMOTDEHHEM  OCHOBHEHX BOINMPOCOB, Halla Ererauxs xoTena 6H NHINb YkazaThk, YTO OHA pacueHHBAae@T  NOno6Horo pona BHCTYNJI@HHH KAK MOIIHTKH OTBJIEYb BHHMAHHE YYaCTHUKOB KoHdepeHuxH  OT pemeHUs Tex BaxHkIX SAMAY, KOTOPHE CTOAT B IMOBECTKE HA HAUEH CeECCHK. BHAroHapio  Bac, r-x llpencenaTtesb.
(24.1) Mr KHILTCHEVSKI (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr President, in connection with the unjustified attempt by one of the delegations to cast doubt on  the credentials of the delegation of the legal Government of Afghanistan, the Soviet delegation would like to  rasie a vigorous protest against this kind of statement. We know that the enemies of the Afghan people are  trying to prevent the construction of a new and genuinely democratic life in that country. They claim to  favour a political solution to the problems which have arisen in regard to Afghanistan, but in fact they are  preventing its achievement although, as practical experience shows, the potential for such a solution exists.
(24.2) Bearing in mind the appeal to all delegates to the Conference to concern themselves with basic  issues, our delegation would just like to point out that it regards statements of this kind as attempts to  divert the attention of participants in the Conference from the solution of those important tasks which are  on the agenda of our session. Thank you, Mr President.
25. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. And now I give the floor to the distinguished delegate of Mongolia.
26.1 LI-H BAH3AP (MoOHroyufa):  T-u lpencenaTens, neneraumsa MoHIOIBC KON HaponHoïn Pecny6HHKH BbCTYMA@T B MON  MEPXKY MOSHLUNH C'PYNNH APAÔCKHX DOCYMAPCTB, BHPAI3HBUNX CBOE HecornacHe Mo BOIPOCY  MNONHOMOUHH MPENCTABHTENH Hapauns. JMesrerauxsa MOHTONBLCKON Haponnoïñ Pecny6/HKH TAKKE  MPOTECTYET MPOTHB MPH3HAHHH MOJIHOMOYHH NpencTaBHTeseñ TaK Ha3bBA@MoH JlemoxrpaTHYe-  ckoû Kamnyuuu. Hawa cTpaHa, Haume MpaBHT@NBCTBO TIPL3HA@T TONBKO OOHO FMOCYNAPCTBO  KaMmnyuxnxn - HaponHylo Pecny6nnxy KamnydnH, KOTOpOe HMeeT 3aKOHHOe npaBo MNpencTras-  NATL KaMMyYUHÜCKHÉ HAPOU B MeXMYHAPONHEX ODrAHHSAUXAX, B TOM uncse H B IOHECKO.
26.2 Hawa nenerauns sasdBNHeT MPOTECT H NPOTHE 3asABIeHUA OOHOM H3 menerauxñ, KO-  Topas HHTA@TCH MOCTABHTB MON COMHEHHEe MOJTHOMOYHA IMP@TCTABHTEJIH JlemoxpaTHYecKoñ  PEcNny6HHKH AGraHHCTAH. CMACHÉO,T-H NpencegaTesb.
(26.1) Mr BANZAR (Mongolia) (Translation from the Russian): _  Mr President, the delegation of the Mongolian People's Republic wishes to support the position of the  Arab Group which voiced its disagreement regarding the credentials of the representative of Israel. The  delegation of the Mongolian People's Republic also protests against recognition of the credentials of the  representatives of so-called Democratic Kampuchea. Our country and government recognize only one state of  Kampuchea--the People's Republic of Kampuchea--legally entitled to represent the Kampuchean people in  international organizations, including Unesco.  st against the statement by one delegation which is attempting to
(26.2) Our delegation also wishes to prote ;  entative of the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan. Thank you,  cast doubt on the credentials of the repres  Mr President.
27. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The distinguished delegate of the Democratic Republic of  Afghanistan has the floor.
28. M. KESHTMAND (République démocratique d'Afghanistan) .-  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, au nom de la République démocratique d'Afgha-  nistan, je m'élève contre les assertions sans fondement proférées par la République populaire de  Chine au sujet de notre pays dans le but, il me semble, de détourner cette Conférence de son
10   objet qui est de promouvoir la coopération entre les nations et le développement culturel et éco-  nomique. Pour l'information de la délégation de la Chine, je voudrais dire ceci : c'est en appli-  cation de l'article 51 de la Charte des Nations Unies et du Traité de paix et d'amitié conclu entre  l'Union soviétique et l'Afghanistan qu'en décembre 1978, le gouvernement légal de la République  démocratique d'Afghanistan a fait appel à l'Union soviétique pour qu'elle vienne en aide à notre  pays. Merci.
29. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The distinguished delegate of Democratic Kampuchea now has the  fioor.
30.1 M. THIOUNN MUMM (Kampuchea démocratique).-  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais exprimer ma gratitude au Comité de vérification des  pouvoirs pour la juste décision qu'il a prise en faveur du Kampuchea démocratique et remercier la  Conférence d'avoir adopté à l'unanimité le rapport du Comité.
30.2 Toutefois, des réserves ont été exprimées au sein du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs  ainsi qu'en plénière à l'effet de contester la présence de ma délégation qui participe à la Con-  férence en faisant preuve d'esprit de coopération et de sens des responsabilités. Je suis donc  dans l'obligation de vous demander de faire la déclaration suivante.
30.3 Il y a maintenant quatre ans, puissamment soutenues et armées par une grande puissance,  les autorités d'un pays ayant des visées expansionnistes sur la région ont massivement envahi le  Kampuchea démocratique et installé à Phnom Penh une administration étrangère maintenue en place  grâce aux 250.000 soldats du corps expéditionnaire étranger, assisté de plus de 50,000 adminis-  trateurs civils étrangers. Le régime installé à Phnom Penh est entièrement entre les mains des  étrangers, ne représente que ces étrangers et ne survivra pas une seule seconde après le retrait  total des troupes étrangères. La communauté internationale dénonce et condamne l'agression étran-  gère au Kampuchea chaque année depuis l'invasion. L'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies a, à  une majorité sans cesse accrue, reconnu la représentativé du gouvernement du Kampuchea démocra-  tique et adopté des résolutions demandant le retrait de toutes les troupes étrangères du Kampu-  chea. Les autorités du pays ayant des visées expansionnistes sur la région refusent obstinément  d'appliquer ces résolutions. Les réserves émises par quelques délégations à l'encontre de notre  présence ici sont donc sans fondement ; ce ne sont que des manoeuvres pour tenter de faire accep-  ter par la communauté internationa!ls ic fait accompli au Kampuchea. D'autre part, aux grands  succès remportés sur le champ de bataille vient s'ajouter cette année un événement d'une grande  portée : la constitution d'un gouvernernent de coalition du Kampuchea démocratique rassemblant  toutes les forces patriotiques de la nation. La délégation du Kampuchea démocratique tient à re-  mercier tous les pays qui soutiennent la lutte du peuple du Kampuchea et le gouvernement du Kam-  puchea démocratique en se prononçant massivement à l'ONU pour que le Kampuchea démocratique  conserve son siège et en adoptant lu résolution demandant le retrait de toutes les troupes étran-  gères du Kampuchea. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
31. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. I now have on my list the distinguished delegate of Comoros.
32. M. AHMED ALI (Comores).-  Monsieur le Président, au nom de la délégation de la République fédéraie et islamique des  Comores, je me rallie pleinement à la position de la délégation de la Syrie. Déjà à la vingtième  session de la Conférence générale, ma délégation a condamné l'attitude d'Israël qui, malgré les  résolutions des Nations Unies, continue à agresser ses voisins arabes en général et le peuple  palestinien en particulier. Monsieur le Président, je vous remercie.
33. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The next speaker on my list is the distinguished delegate of the  Socialist Republic of Viet Nam.
34.1 M. CU-HUY-CAN (République socialiste du Viet Nam).-  Monsieur le Président, chers collègues, nous nous sommes contentés, pour ne pas faire  perdre du temps à la Conférence, qui doit centrer ses travaux sur le deuxième Plan à moyen  terme, d'adresser au Comité de vérification des pouvoirs une déclaration très brève et très  modérée pour marquer notre réserve de principe quant à la participation à la Conférence de la  délégation du Kampuchea démocratique, et nous avons fait savoir de vive voix au Comité que nous  n'avions pour cette raison nullement l'intention de prendre la parole en séance plénière. Mais tout  à i'heure, le représentant du soi-disant Kampuchea démocratique a eu des paroles très calom-  nieuses qui visaient, chacun a pu s'en rendre compte, notre pays. C'est pourquoi je me vois  contraint de prendre la parole au nom de la délégation du Viet Nam pour dénoncer comme falla-  cieuses et calomniatrices toutes ces assertions dont nous avons fait l'objet. Je n'en dirai pas plus  sur ce sujet par respect pour la Conférence générale.
34.2 Par ailleurs, la délégation du Viet Nam s'associe pleinement à la prise de position de la  Syrie et du groupe arabe en ce qui concerne les pouvoirs d'Israël, pays dont, avec nos amis  arabes et avec tout le monde, nous condamnons l'attitude. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
35. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The next speaker is the distinguisned delegate of the Central African  Republic.
36.1 M. BLAGUE (République centrafricaine).-  Monsieur le Président, je me suis vu obligé de prendre la parole en séance plénière pour  soulever deux points ; le premier a trait au fait que le nom de la République centrafricaine a été  omis de la liste des Etats membres autorisés a participer pleinement aux travaux de la Conférence  générale, et même de celle des Etats provisoirement autorisés à participer pleinement aux travaux.  Notre délégation, après avoir reçu un message du ministre des affaires étrangères de la Répu-  blique centrafricaine, a fait part à un membre du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs de son  étonnement devant cette omission, et elle espère que celle-ci sera rectifiée.
36.2 Je voudrais ensuite souligner, Monsieur le Président, que notre délégation est d'accord avec  la prise de position du groupe africain qui, par solidarité avec le groupe arabe, dont la Syrie  s'est fait le porte-parole, se range aux côtés du peuple palestinien et aux côtés des peuples  arabes pour émettre des réserves quant à la validité des pouvoirs présentés par la délégation  d'Israël en vue de participer à cette session de la Conférence générale. La délégation centra-  fricaine est entièrement en accord avec cette prise de position du groupe africain et considérerait  d'ailleurs comme absolument anormal que le groupe africain ne puisse pas prendre position dans ce  sens. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
37. The PRÉSIDENT:  ; Thank you very much. We shall look into the matter of your delegation's credentials  immediately, and you will be informed as soon as possible. I now have on my list the  distinguished delegate of Costa Rica.
(38) Mr NUNEZ (Costa Rica) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, I regret that the name of Costa Rica has not been mentioned--not even in the list of  those coutries whose credentials have been accepted provisionally. Our credentials were signed last Friday  in Costa Rica and were sent together with a telegram indicating the composition of our delegation and  announcing that the relevant documents had been dispatched the same day. I have been able to ascertain  that the telegram was in the hands of the Secretariat yesterday and I regret that the document has not  reached the Credentials Committee. I am sure that the Director-General will take all the necessary steps to  rectify this delay and to ensure that Costa Rica is at least included among those countries whose credentials  have been provisionally accepted. My delegation would furthermore wish to see this meeting direct its  attention to those matters for which it is here assembled and to avoid raising questions of a political nature  which could impede our work. Thank you, Mr President. ;
39. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The Director-General has informed me that he will look into the  matter which you have mentioned and you will be informed as soon as possible. Our next speaker  is the distinguished delegate of Pakistan.
40,1 Mr KAZI (Pakistan):  Thank you, Mr President. My delegation would like to associate itself with the stand taken  by the Syrian delegation as regards the credentials of Israel. This Member State has  continuously defied the various resolutions and recommendations of international forums, and we  whole-heartedly support the stand taken by our Arab bretheren.
40.2 As regards the situation in Afghanistan, we would like to support in unequivocal terms the  observation made by the Chinese delegation. The reality of the situation is very well known. It  has been discussed, debated, and deliberated upon in various international and regional forums  and it needs no further elaboration. Thank you, Mr President.
41. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very mcuh. The last speaker on my list is the distinguished delegate of the  United States of America. In the absense of further requests, I declare the list of speakers  closed. The distinguished delegate of the United States has the floor.
42.1 Mrs GERARD (United States of America):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 had really intended not to speak, because 1 think the work of  considering and debating the Medium-Term Plan is extremely important, and we have all too little  time for this. But I feel, in view of the number of statements, that we should again put  ourselves on record on behalf of the United States.
42.2 It seems to me that the report of the Credentials Committee has already been accepted.  The Committee has examined credentials according to Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference: all those presented were said to be duly in order, and have therefore been  accepted.
42.3 I do want to stress the importance that the United States, our President and our people  attach to the principle of universality, and to democratic participation by Member States in the  United Nations, in Unesco and in other international fora. This is fundamental to our very  existence and to our presence here, trying to work together. We should not lose sight of this,  and get bogged down in polemics. Let us set these matters aside now, and get down to the  business at hand. Thank you, Mr President.
43, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The list of speakers is closed, but we have one more speaker, in  accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. This is the distinguished delegate of  Democratic Kampuchea, who wishes to exercise the right of rep! He has the floor.
44.1 M. IM SARDEUN (Kampuchea démocratique).-  Monsieur le Président, je vous remercie de me donner la parole pour répondre aux alléga-  tions du représentant de Hanoï. Je voudrais être bref, mais je pense qu'il faudrait être clair une  fois pour toutes. Le délégué de Hanoï a qualifié de fallacieuse la déclaration de notre délégation.  Chacun sait qu'à l'heure actuelle 25 divisions dotées de 250,000 hommes, qu'appuient 50.000 conseil-  lers chargés de dominer le pays, occupent le Kampuchea. Il s'agit là de la plus grande concentra-  tion de forces d'occupation jamais vue dans le monde.
44.2 Cette armée d'occupation a commis et continue de commettre des crimes, un génocide, à  l'encontre du peupie khmer, du peuple du Kampuchea. Hanoi a utilisé toutes les armes, y compris  les armes chimiques et biologiques et l'arme de la famine, contre lesquelles les peuples du monde  entier se sont mobilisés. En ce qui concerne les armes biologiques, les Nations Unies ont créé une  commission d'enquête, mais Hanoï lui a refusé l'autorisation de se rendre sur place pour mener à  bien sa tâche. L'armée de Hanoï continue de tuer des civils par centaines de milliers. Aucune  exaction ne nous est épargnée : massacres collectifs, destruction systématique de notre infra-  structure économique, pillage de notre patrimoine culturel, tentatives de suppression de notre  identité, falsification de notre histoire, dans le but de faciliter l'assimilation et de créer, plus  tard, un grand Viet Nam sur ce qu'était l'ancienne Indochine française.
44.3 S'il est une preuve de l'occupation, c'est qu'à chaque session de l'Assemblée générale des  Nations Unies depuis l'invasion du Kampuchea par l'armée vietnamienne, la communauté internatio-  nale a toujours voté, avec une majorité chaque fois croissante, en faveur du Kampuchea démocra-  tique. L'Organisation des Nations Unies a voté de nombreuses résolutions, mais ces résolutions  sont toujours rejetées, traitées d'illégales, d'immorales, de nulles et de non avenues par le  gouvernement du pays occupant. Son ministre des affaires étrangères n'a-t-il pas déclaré derniè-  rement que "les Nations Unies votent trop de résolutions par où aucun problème n'est résolu". Il  a ajouté que "les changements dans le monde ont changé les Nations Unies, mais les Nations Unies  n'ont jamais changé le monde". Hanoï a refusé de participer à la Conférence internationale sur le  Kampuchea, comme le voulait l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, parce que l'imposition de sa  loi est sa seule ligne de conduite. Situation irréversible, répète Hanoï à qui n'arrive pas à  comprendre son langage martial. Hanoï a refusé obstinément de laisser la mission d'enquête de  l'Organisation des Nations Unies se rendre sur place parce que les crimes qu'elle commet contre le  peuple du Kampuchea, contre l'humanité, par l'emploi des armes biologiques, deviennent de plus  en plus évidents. Le Conseil économique et social des Nations Unies, la Commission des droits de  l'homme des Nations Unies ont adopté de nombreuses décisions et résolutions stigmatisant la vio-  lation des droits de l'homme au Kampuchea que constitue, je cite, "la persistance de l'occupation  étrangère” ; en particulier la résolution adoptée le 4 février 1982 par la Commission des droits de  l'homme à sa 38e session a ordonné d'examiner, je cite encore, "les pratiques des forces étran-  gères qui portent atteinte aux droits de l'homme du peuple kampuchéen et qui l'empéchent d'exer-  cer son droit à disposer de lui-même". Mais à ces résolutions, Hanoï continue à opposer une par-  faite indifférence et sa loi du fait accompli. La force brutale et les manoeuvres sournoises  constituent ses seules réponses au monde assoiffé de justice et de paix.
44.4 Autre preuve de nos dires : il s'est formé, il y a quelques mois, un gouvernement de coali-  tion du Kampuchea démocratique, rassemblant toutes les forces de résistance nationale et patrio-  tique. Hanoï a peur et n tenté toutes les manoeuvres, mais sa peur est telle qu'elle n'ose même  plus demander que ses fantoches, l'administration qu'elle a mise en place à Phnom Penh, occupent  le siège du Kampuchea à l'Organisation des Nations Unies. Elle n'a demandé que la vacance du
13   siège, mais la communauté internationale est au courant de ses manoeuvres et s'est toujours pro-  noncée, chaque fois à unc majorité accrue, pour le Kampuchea démocratique. Monsieur le Prési-  dent, il s'agit là d'une attitude toute de duperie, tout à fait déplacée dans une organisation  internationale telle que la nôtre. Est-il possible qu'un pays dont le comportement n'est fait que de  mépris, de défi de la Volonté si hautement exprimée par lu communauté internationale se fasse  passer pour un agneau ici et vienne ensuite perturber nos travaux en contestant sans cesse la  validité de notre présence, non certes, ici, mais aux réunions d'une commission. J'en ai terminé.  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
45. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have two additional requests for the right  of reply, from the distinguished delegates of Afghanistan and of Viet Nam. These will be the last  two replies. May I remind delegates that it is expected that replies will not comprise new  statements, that they will correspond to what was said by a previous speaker, and that they will  be brief. Thank you very much. The distinguished dclegate of the Democratic Republic of  Afghanistan has the floor.
46.1 M. KESHTMAND (République démocratique d'Afghanistan).-  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, je ne voudrais pas m'attarder sur un pays que  vous connaissez très bien ; il s'agit du Pakistan. Jc m'abstiendrai de dire que c'est un pays où  les violations des droits de l'homme sont flagrantes, un pays assujetti à un régime militaire depuis  des années. De plus, nous connaissons tous la triste histoire d'Ali Bhutto. pendu par un militaire  qui est actuellement au pouvoir. On peut dire que ce sont là des problèmes intérieurs au Pakistan,  mais je les évoque parce que le délégué du Pakistan a mentionné le problème que poserait  l'Afghanistan.
46.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, vous savez que le Pakistan commet des ingérences grossières dans  les affaires intérieures de notre pays. Ce pays a installé sur son territoire plus de 85 camps  d'entraînement militaire qui bénéficient du concours d'instructeurs venant précisément de la Chine  qui vient elle aussi d'évoquer le problème que poserait l'Afghanistan. de ne citerai que les  exemples de régions comme celles de Chitral, Parachinar, Puski, Nushki, Bajawal, Dir, Peshawar  ou Korm. Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, le Pakistan après avoir entraîné des  bandes armées sur son territoire, les envoie dans notre pays pour piller, pour tuer et pour  perturber la vie paisible de notre population.
46.3 Or nous pensons, Mesdames ct Mesieurs, que nous pouvons régler les problèmes posés à  propos de l'Afghanistan d'une manière pacifique, politique. C'est dans ce sens que nous avons  proposé au Pakistan à deux reprises, une première fois le 14 mai 1980 et une seconde fois avec  le concours du Secrétaire général des Nations Unies, de résoudre les problèmes d'une manière  pacifique et politique. Nous souhaitons que le Pakistan vienne s'asseoir avec nous à la table de  négociation, afin que nous puissions discuter et trouver ainsi une solution au problème, et nous  souhaitons que le Pakistan mette un terme à ses ingérences dans les affaires intérieures de notre  pays. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
47. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The distinguished delegate of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam  now has the floor.
48.1 M. CU-HUY-CAN (République socialiste du Viet Nam).-  Monsieur le Président, mes chers collègues, je suis navré de devoir reprendre la parole.  Tout d'abord, le mot "génocide" a été prononcé ; il y a bien eu un génocide admis par le monde  entier, attesté par des films, par des journaux et par l'opinion internationale. Un génocide tel  que l'ancien Kampuchea démocratique n'a plus le droit de sc faire entendre dans des organisations  internationales telles que la nôtre.
48.2 Deuxièmement, pour ce qui est de la situation réelle au Kampuchea, je vous engage, Mon-  sieur le Président ct mes chers collègues, À lire un livre intitulé "Le temps d'une résurrection"  dont l'auteur n'est ni un Vietnamien ni un Soviétique, mais M. Jacques Danois, auteur belge et  non communiste. À la première page de ce livre, publié par l'Unicef, on peut voir un enfant res-  suscité qui sourit et à la quatrième page de couverture un des charniers du Kampuchea de Pol  Pot. Je vous engage à lire ce livre très objectif pour connaître la situation réelle du Kampuchea,  la résurrection presque miraculeuse du peuple khmer et les relations véritablement fraternelles qui  existent entre le peuple du Kampuchea et le peuple vietnamien.
48.3 Troisièmement, nous avons lutté aux côtés du peuple khmer frère, que nous avons aidé à  mener deux guerres de libération nationale. Nous nous sommes retirés une fois l'indépendance  nationale reconquise. Si aujourd'hui des troupes vietnamiennes restent encore sur le sol de la  République populaire du Kampuchea, c'est avec l'accord de nos deux gouvernements souverains,  celui de la République socialiste du Viet Nam et celui de la République populaire du Kampuchea,  gouvernement authentique issu des élections populaires et légitimé par la Constitution du pays.  C'est sur la demande de la République populaire du Kampuchea que des troupes stationnent encore  un certain temps dans ce pays. Je profite de cette occasion pour porter à la connaissance de la
14   Conférence générale que nous avons retiré récemment certair.es unités du Kampuchea, estimant”  que la situation s'y est déjà améliorée grâce aux forces de la République populaire du Kampuchea  elle-même. Quant aux légendes inventées pour détourner l'attention du monde sur certains soulè-  vements, sur certaines infiltrations, je vous engage une fois encore à lire ou à relire le livre très  objectif, très pertinent, de M. Jacques Danois. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
49. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. At the end of the discussion on this subject, may I thank all  speakers. All the statements will, of course, be duly recorded in the proceedings of the General  Conference.  STATEMENT BY THE TEMPORARY PRESIDENT CONCERNING ARREARS OF CONTRIBUTIONS/ARRIERES  DE CONTRIBUTIONS : DECLARATION DU PRESIDENT PROVISOIRE/DECLARACION DEL  PRESIDENTE PROVISIONAL RELATIVA A LAS CONTRIBUCIONES ATRASADAS/ 3ASBJEHHE  BPEMEHHOMO MPEICEMATEJS OTHOCUTEJIBHO 3A/OJDKEHHOCTH TO BHINIATE B3HOCOB pase ga 1 ole  els) BEI ge aloe las  SH RAR: lé et HE oA
50.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, my next duty is to report to the General Conference on arrears of  contributions and their effect on the voting rights of Member States at the present session. The  documents for this item are 4 XC/8, together with 4 XC/8 Corr., dated 19 November 1982, and
4 XC/8 Add., dated 22 November 1982.
50.2 In Article IV, paragraph 8(b), of the Constitution, ihe right to vote is made conditional  upon the payment by Member States of their financial contributions. The text in question reads  as follows: 'A Member State shall no have note in the General Conference if the total amount of  contributions due from it exceeds the total amount of contributions payable by it for the current  year and the immediately preceding calendar year’.
50.3 At the present time, the provisions of this article are applicable to seven Member States,  since the amount of their arrears exceeds the amount of contributions due for the current  financial period. These states are: Bolivia, Chad, Comoros, Dominican Republic, Lebanon,  Paraguay and Sierra Leone.
50.4 On the other hand, paragraph 8(c) of Article IV of the Constitution provides that 'The  General Conference may nevertheless permit such a Member State to vote, if it is satisfied that  failure to pay is due to conditions beyond the control of the Member Nation'.
50.5 In accordance with Rule 79, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference, the Executive Board at its 115th session examined the communications received from  Bolivia, the Central African Republic, Chad and Lebanon, and adopted a recommendation to the  General Conference that these Member States be authorized to participate in the voting at this  fourth extraordinary session. Since the 115th session, however, the Central African Republic has  effected a payment covering the arrears outstanding at 31 December 1980, and should therefore  be deleted from the list of Member States currently in arrears.
50.6 At its third special session, held yesterday, the Executive Board examined a communication  received from the Dominican Republic and adopted a recommendation to the General Conference  that this Member State be authorized to participate in the voting at this fourth extraordinary  segsion.
50,7 If there are no objections, may I take it that these recommendations are adopted, namely  that Bolivia, Chad, the Dominican Republic and Lebanon be authorized to participate in the  voting at this session?
50.8 Thank you. The recommendations are adopted.
50.9 Now, 1 should like to inform you that, in my capacity as Temporary President of the  General Conference, I have received from the Director-General a communication emanating from  the Government of the Comoros, invoking the relevant provisions of the Constitution. The cable  received from the Government of the Comoros is reproduced in document 4 XC/8 Addendum.
50.10 Is it your wish that the Comoros should also be permitted to vote, in accordance with  paragraph 8(c) of Article 4 of the Constitution? I see no objections.
50.11 It is so decided.
50.12 I have also just received a communication emanating from the authorities of Sierra Leone,  invoking the relevant provisions of the Constitution. A document has been prepared on the basis
15   of this communication, and will be distributed to your shortly in order that the General  Conference may take a decision on the matter.  ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA/ADCPTION DE L'ORDRE DU JOUR/APROBACION DEL ORDEN DEL  DIA/YTBEPXIEHHE MOBECTKH HS fJles9t Jys> SLoset  M TX 42
51.1 The PRESIDENT:  We shall now move on to the adoption of the agenda. The provisional agenda is contained  in document 4 XC/1 Rev., dated 29 October 1982, which is before you. However, before giving  the floor to the Chairman of the Executive Board, I wish to suggest the deletion of the following  item: '8. Financial problems connected with the triennial Programme and Budget for 1981-1983  (if necessary)'. The Director-General informed the Executive Board at its 115th session, held in  September-October 1982, that there are no financial problems in connection with the triennial  Programme and Budget for 1981-1983 which require the decision of this Conference. As the  wording of the title of this agenda item suggests, there is no necessity for the Conference to  dwell on this matter and I accordingly suggest its deletion,
51.2 Is there any objection to this suggestion? I see none.
51.3 It is so decided.
51.4 I now give the floor to H.E. Ambassador Victor Massuh, Chairman of the Executive Board.  You have the floor, Sir.
(52) Mr MASSUH (Argentina), Chairman of the Executive Board (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, in accordance with Article V, paragraph 5(a) of the Constitution, the Executive Board  is responsible for submitting to the General Conference the provisional agenda of its meetings. The  provisional agenda of this fourth extraordinary session was adopted by the Executive Board at its 114th  session and was distributed as document 4 XC/1. Subsequently, at its 115th session, the Executive Board  decided to add a new item to the agenda, item 2.1, which reads as follows: 'Report by the Executive Board  on communications received from Member States invoking the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8(c), of  the Constitution'. The provisional agenda, including this additional item, has been distributed as  document 4 XC/1.Rev. Thank you, Mr President.
53.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Executive Board. Does anyone wish to speak on the subject?  Let me remind you, that according to Rule 18 of the Rules of Procedure, the agenda must be  approved by a two-thirds majority of the members present and voting. But, in the absence of  objections, may I take it that you unanimously approve the agenda, as ame’ “2d by the deletion  of item 8, as set out in document 4 XC/1 Rev.? Thank you.
53.2 The agenda, as amended, is adopted.
53,3 Now, ladies and gentlemen, I shall adjourn the meeting to enable heads of delegations to  attend the meeting of the Nominations Committee to prepare the lists of nominations for  membership of the General Committee, including the Chairmen of the Commissions. The first  meeting of the Nominations Committee will be at 2.30 p.m. in Room II.
53.4 May I recall that, in accordance with Rule 29 of the Rules of Procedure, the Nominations  Committee shall consist of the heads of all delegations entitled to vote in the Conference. The  head of a delegation may designate another member of his delegation to attend meetings and vote  in his place. The representative of each delegation on the Committee may be assisted by another  member of his delegation. Rule 29 also states that the Committee shall elect its own Chairman.
53.5 We shall resume our work this afternoon, at 3 p.m. The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 1.45 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h.45  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 13.45  Jacenanne saxphHsaercsa B 13.45  Sell sa, ELU 5 delat cas,  £o  UT 1245 04K