Sixth plenary meeting
25 November 1982 at 3.20 p.m.  President: Mr. MARGAN (Yugoslavia)  later: Mr. MAJEED KHAN (Bangladesh)  Sixième séance plénière
25 novembre 1982 à 15 h, 20  Président : M. MARGAN (Yougoslavie)  ‘puis : M, MAJEED KHAN (Bangladesh)  Sexta sesion plenaria
25 Hox6psa 1982 r. B 15.20  Npencenarenb: I'-H MAPDAH (lOrocHaBHs)  saTrem: r-H MAJXHI XAH (BaxrJaneu)  LoslJI II Led  HI an he LL VAAY HEIN pds) pads Yo  (Ld gts) vlayle Sul 1 omt I  (Godan) OL Sno Saud! a2  FERREL
149   SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE  RAPPORT SUPPLEMENTAIRE DU PRESIDENT LU COMITE DES CANDIDATURES  INFORME SUPLEMENTARIO DEL PRESIDENTE DEL COMITE DE CANDIDATURAS  MOMOJHHTEJBHHA MOKJAI MPENCEMATEMSHT KOMHUTETA IMO KAHJIHJIATYPAM  A ER & x JF WA TRE
1. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the sixth plenary meeting. Before we continue the  general debate, I shall call on the Chairman of the Nominations Committee to give a supplementary  report to the plenary. Mr Putzeys Alvarez, you have the floor.
(2) M, PUTZEYS ALVAREZ (Guatemala) (président du Comité des candidatures), - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Monsieur le Président, le Comité des candidatures a tenu ses deuxième et troisième séances le
24 novembre à 9 h, 15 et à 13 h. 20 respectivement, afin de recommander des candidatures aux postes de  vice-présidents ct de rapporteurs des Commissions I et II. Au terme d'un large et fructueux échange de  vues et après consultation des membres des délégations représentant les groupes régionaux, le Comité a  décidé de recommander les candidatures suivantes : pour la Commission I aux postes de vice-présidents,  les chefs des délégations de la Belgique, du Costa Rica et de l'Ukraine et comme rapporteur, M. Reza  Maknoun, de la délégation iranienne ; pour la Commission II, aux postes de vice-présidents, les chefs  des délégations du Bénin, des Emirats arabes unis et des Philippines et comme rapporteur, M. Hedi  Moussa Djarrara, de la délégation tunisienne, Ces recommandations ont été soumises dès hier aux com-  missions concernées, qui les ont adoptées à l'unanimité. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président,
3. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Putzeys Alvarez, for your information.  GENERAL DEBATE ON THE DRAFT MEDIUM-TERM PLAN FOR 1984-1989 (continued)  DEBAT GENERAL SUR LE PROJET DE PLAN A MOYEN TERME POUR 1984-1989 (suite)  DEBATE GENERAL SOBRE EL PLAN A PLAZO MEDIO PARA 1984-1989 (continuacion)  OBMASI IHCKYCCHS MO NPOEKTY CPEJIHECPOYHOI'O IJIAHA HA 1984-1989 TOJII (npononxennxe)  (als) VAAM — VAAE 5540 Il élu gino Bhidl Egyse) delall GLSLL0)I
4. The PRESIDENT:  We shall now continue the general debate and I give the floor to the first speaker on our  list, H.E, Mrs Kaarina Suonio, Minister of Science and Culture, head of the delegation of Finland.
5.1 Mrs SUONIO (Finland):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, on behalf of the Government of  Finland I would like to say how pleased we are to see you, Mr Margan, as President of this  Conference, The Second Medium-Term Plan of Unesco was already discussed under your  presidency in Belgrade. Your profound knowledge of this issue and the whole work of Unesco will  be of particular value to us in our discussions.
5,2 I should also like to express the appreciation of my government to the Director-General for  having carried out the difficult but challenging task of preparing the Draft Plan before us. For  the first time, planning in Unesco is harmonized so that the Medium-Term Plan constitutes the  basis for the biennial programmes and budgets. We believe that this will increase the  opportunities for the Member States to influence the activities of Unesco.
5.3 This Conference provides us with an outstanding opportunity to discuss the role of Unesco  in the 1980s and its contribution to the solution of the major problems of mankind. The analysis  of the major problems indicates clearly that we have more serious reasons than ever to focus on  these problems and to increase our cc-operation in efforts to solve them.
5.4 My government considers the work of Unesco to be extremely important because it paves the  way for the future perhaps more than any other of the United Nations organizations. Unesco has  the tools for shaping a new man and new co-operation between peoples. In this sense, Unesco is  an organization of hope. For this hope to become reality the Member States should also be  prepared to support Unesco financially. We should not arbitrarily limit the growth of Unesco's  activities, when they are relevant. That would be against those principles on the basis of which  Finland is seeking to strengthen the whole United Nations system.
5.5 Mr President, in my intervention I shall concentrate on the two interrelated goals--human  rights and peace, and a just and equitable development--which we consider to be the main  priorities of the Second Medium-Term Plan. These objectives should be translated into concrete  action. Let me explain how we see these priorities in Finland.
5.6 The ultimate goal of the Organization is to contribute to peace and security by promoting  collaboration among the nations through education, science and culture in order to further  universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for human rights and fundamental freedoms.  The purpose and aims of Unesco, so clearly stated in the Constitution, form a sound and valid  basis for the work of the Organization. By promoting co-operation between the Member States and  by supporting a more equitable and just development of education, science, culture and  communication, Unesco can contribute to the well-being, security and balanced development of  mankind.
5.7 Unesco's activities for the promotion of peace and human rights are based on the principle  that these two are interrelated and complementary. A just and lasting state of peace cannot be  achieved without social justice. We also support the principle clearly expressed in the Draft Plan  that human rights are equal in importance. Observation of human rights is not an option but an  obligation. The rights of man are not dependent on political or ideological considerations.  Elimination of prejudice, intolerance, racism and apartheid are essential for the realization of  human rights.
5.8 The objectives of peace and human rights should be reflected in all the activities of Unesco.  Unesco's policies to promote equal access to, and wider participation in, education and culture are  central in this respect. So is a more equitable distribution of scientific resources and findings.  Another important aspect is the promotion of a free flow and wider and better balanced  dissemination of information.
5.9 However, Unesco also has specific tasks for the attainment of the objectives of human rights  and peace: education for international understanding and research on peace and human rights  are some of the most important and challenging tasks entrusted to Unesco. Research on the  causes of conflicts and on the social and cultural impact of the arms race is necessary for  understanding the nature of these problems. Regular collection of information concerning the  violation of human rights is needed to promote strategies for the realization of human rights.  Education can play a vital role in providing the information necessary for identifying and solving  existing problems. Although we cannot solve the acute problems of international relations by  means of education alone, it is highly important that educators recognize their responsibilities.  They are influential shapers of opinion here and now. At the same time, they can develop an  active and conscious public opinion in the longer term. It is the duty of educators to bring up  youth in the spirit of international understanding. Unesco's Recommendation concerning Education  for International Understanding is highly topical and valid. My government gives its full support  to the strengthening of its implementation at all levels and in all forms of education. Major  Programme XIII proposes new target groups for education for international understanding. We  would like to add all those engaged in technical and vocational education to the gruops already  mentioned in this programme.
5.10 It is encouraging to note a growing consciousness of and concern with changes in  international relations among the general public. This concern has led to active support by artists  and scientists also for efforts to prevent nuclear war and to promote arms control and  disarmament. We support Unesco's active participation within its mandate in the World Disarmament  Campaign.
5.11 Mr President, 1 would now like to turn to the other main priority of Unesco's activities--the  promotion of an equitable and just development. Unesco has a particular responsibility within the  United Nations system as a whole for drawing the attention of international and national  decision-makers to the need for reviewing models of development. Balanced and harmonious  development should stem from the cultural foundations of each community and aim at the liberation  of human resources through the participation and self-realization of all its members. Unesco  should actively encourage the search for new models of development. These should be based on  cultural identity, a better quality of life, a balanced environment and a rational use of natural  resources. The new concept of development should replace development models which are  excessively characterized by economic growth and increasing consumption. This was also strongly  emphasized by the World Conference on Cultural Policies held in Mexico this year.
5.12 We note with satisfaction that the concept of the cultural dimension of development is one of  the principles on which the whole Medium-Term Plan is based and which gives it coherence. In  some parts of the Plan, the approach to culture is, however, too restricted. We would like to  emphasize cultural democracy and a broad concept of culture comprising also social, economic and  technological development.
5.13 Although the importance of the cultural foundations of development has been recognized, we  still lack the theoretical knowledge and the strategies for converting this approach into practical  action. The proposals in the Draft Plan concerning the study of the cultural dimensions of global  problems and the analysis of different theories and concrete development projects are of particular  interest. Studies concerning these questions should have high priority. We refer here specifically  to the relevant parts of Major Programmes 1 and VIII. The studies should, however, be combined  with action programmes and pilot projects, particularly in Major Programme XI on 'Culture and the  future'. The cultural dimension of development should also be integrated in all the other aspects  of the Organization's programme, in education as well as in the major programmes concerning the  sciences, technology and sociey.
5,14 Mr President, I hav« emphasized the role of Unesco within the United Nations system in  generating and promoting new objectives and models for a balanced development. Unesco can make  its most effective contribution to this process by participating actively in designing policies,  strategies and plans within the United Nations system and by assisting Member States in defining  their own strategies. The development of strategies and programmes should also include the  testing of various methods in practice. Our frequent calls for action-oriented research and  projects should be seen in this light.
5.15 The strengthening of the social sciences in Unesco's programme has for many years been  advocated by several governments, including my own. The very nature of the Second  Medium-Term Plan, which begins with an analysis of the global problems and defines Unesco's role  in solving them, is the best justification for a stronger emphasis on the social and human  sciences. We have also proposed an integrated development of policies in the natural, social and  human sciences. It is encouraging to note the movement towards such an integrated approach and  we will support all further steps in this direction.
5.16 Major Programmes VI, VII and IX on the sciences and information systems reflect a possibly  over-optimistic view of the potential contribution of science and technology to development and to  the solution of various problems related io this process. À more pronounced social science and  humanistic approach might help to set these problems in a wider perspective. There should be a  constant dialogue between the social and human sciences and science and technology lo ensure  that the focus is on man and his true needs and aspirations and not only on material, quantitative  development. Such a dialogue should take place both at the international and the national level.
5,17 Mr President, education and communication are essential for the harmonious development of  society. The members of my delegation will deal with these important questions in a more detailed  way in Commission I. We will also comment in the Commission on the human environment and  natural resources which we consider important for balanced development.
5,18 I will conclude my comments by discussing the contribution of women to the development  process. The problems related to equality between the sexes and the participation of women in  education, science, culture and communication are of central importance. Efforts to provide equal  access and opportunities constitute a positive strategy. It is necessary, however, to take account  of a basic change in the concept of equality. Women are no longer merc objects of benevolent  measures and programmes, We women do not want to be objects but subjects in our own lives as  well as in society and to be recognized as equal partners in planning and decision-making at all  levels. It is important to change basic attitudes by developing the content of education, r:search,  conrmunication and culture. The integration of such activities in all parts of the Draft Plan should
152   be strengthened. The experience of women themselves in various social fields should be utilized  and solutions to problems should be sought from their standpoint.
5.19 Mr President, I have examined some areas of the Second Medium-Term Plan to which we  given the highest priority. As a whole, we consider that the Draft Plan follows the guidelines laid  down by the twenty-first session of the General Conference. As regards structure, the Draft Plan  is also more concise and more readily accessible than the first Medium-Term Plan. We consider  that the task of this extraordinary session of the General Conference is to take the next step and  to give the Secretariat guidelines on how to turn the Plan into concrete programmes. The  proposals which we will make in the appropriate bodies of the General Conference are intended to  serve tnis purpose.
5.20 Our joint efforts to find solutions to the problems created by international development show  that Unesco can provide a fruitful forum for intensified international co-operation. The great  intere st shown by the Member States in the preparation of the Plan confirms this conclusion. This  forum is open equally to all Member States. It is also, consequently, a useful channel for the  continuation of the dialogue between the North and the South. The Second Medium-Term Plan has  clearly been drafted with a concern for the strengthening of this dialogue and for developing a  sense of common responsibility for a more just and equitable development that contributes to the  well-being, security and peace of all mankind.
6. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the Finnish delegation, and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Kasem  Sirisumpundh, Minister of Education of Thailand, Chairman of the Thailand National Commission  for Unesco and head of the delegation of Thailand.
7.1 Mr SIRISUMPUNDH (Thailand):  Mr President, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, the Thai  delegation wishes to join previous speakers in congratulating you, Mr President, on your election  to this high office of the General Conference. We also wish to express our confidence and trust in  your wisdom and guidance which will ensure the success of this session.
7.2 Mr President, my delegation considers the preparation of Unesco's Medium-Term Plan an  activity of great importance, not only at the international and regional levels but at the national  level as well. Since the period of preparation of the Draft Medium-Term Plan coincided with the  preparation and finalization of Thailand's Fifth National Social and Economic Development Plan
(1982-1986), we took the initiative of organizing a national seminar in June 1981 to consult the  members of Thailand's academic and intellectual community, as well as planners from the various  sectors, about it. It was felt that our seminar/consultation provided the various scholars and  institutions concerned with Unesco's areas of work with a useful opportunity to review the pro-  grammes and activities which Thailand had undertaken in co-operation with Unesco in the past  and to identify new needs for further co-operation in the future, in the light of current problems  and specific conditions, and using the problems already identified at the national level for the  Fifth Development Plan as a basis for consideration.
7.3 The Thai delegation is gratified to note that the world problems identified and discussed in  the First Part of the Draft Medium-Term Plan are broadly based and encompass all the major  problems of the developing countries, including those of Thailand. In the experience of Thailand,  in particular, the evaluation of progress achieved and obstacles encountered in the implementation  of our past national development plans has given rise to the identification of four current major  problem areas which urgently need to be tackled. These problem areas are: rural poverty,  urbanization, social disorder; employment, population, environment; energy; and solidarity,  harmony and peace.
7.4 All these problems, we feel, are interrelated and must be resolved by adopting  interdisciplinary approaches. Rural poverty is indeed the core or the root of all problems. In  fact, it was felt in Thailand that rural poverty reflects deficiencies in our past development  frameworks and practices and that without future effective rural poverty eradication programmes  it will be impossible to find appropriate strategies to deal with other development problems in the  long run.
7.5 Mr President, the Thai delegation is happy to note that the Draft Medium-Term Plan attempts  to redefine Unesco's role and tasks for the years 1984-1989 and to highlight certain lines of  emphasis and priorities, not only in terms of content and approaches but also in terms of  resource allocations in order to respond more positively to the great demands of current world  problems. However, considering the scope and content of the major programmes proposed in the  Draft Medium-Term Plan, Thailand feels particularly enthusiastic about a number of them, and  would like to see them given the highest priority in the Plan.
7.6 The two Major Programmes, 'Education for all and 'Education, training and society’, no  matter how you look at them, constitute an essential tool and a key to materialistic, humanistic,  social and cultural development. The subprogrammes and activities under them should be geared  towards promoting the capability of peoples in member countries and thus help them to solve their  problems themselves.
7.7 Regarding the Major Programmes, 'Science, technology and society' and 'The sciences and  their application to development’, Thailand calls for further encouragement of R&D co-operation at  the regional and subregional levels, as well as greater stress on action-oriented programmes and  activities, with international expertise called upon only to assist and encourage the relevant plan  and policies on certain new issues like energy, environmental problems, etc. These two  programmes should also help to bridge the scientific and technological gaps between developed and  developing countries.
7.8 As regards Major Programme X1, 'Culture and the future', we are particularly concerned  about the cultural heritage and the cultural identity vis-à-vis intercultural relations. We should  also like to stress that cultural development must include research on and the renewal of  traditional values, seeking cultural potentials which can lead to rural and naticnal development.
7.9 Major Programme X, 'The human environment and terrestrial and marine resources', is one of  the most important programmes as far as Thailand is concerned, and we would like to see  integrated themes and interdisciplinary activities undertaken by Unesco, which all those sectors  concerned with education, the natural sciences, the social sciences, communication and even  culture would take part in implementing. Thailand also considers the programmes as being of  great potential value in positively serving the course of rural and urban development, in  developed as well as in developing countries.
7.10 The Thai delegation places special emphasis on Major Programme III, 'Communication in the  service of man', and stresses the importance of Unesco's role in the development of  communication, especially with a view to promoting the creation, production and dissemination of  information, in developing countries and between developing and developed countries. This  programme will support and supplement the major programmes I have already discussed and  contribute significantly to Unesco's overall efforts to solve current world problems.
7.11 Mr President, the Thai delegation finds the Major Programme on 'Principles, methods and  strategies of action for development' extremely interesting and most thought-provoking. Like many  developing and developed countries, Thailand has had great doubts about its past development  and growth. We too have discovered that the economic problems and social ills that we have tried  to mobilize all efforts and manpower to solve since 1961--and have to a large extent succeeded in  solving in the framework of past development plans--have given rise to new social disparities and  cultural and mental ills and created many problems detrimental to the stability of the nation's  financial structure and deteriorating basic economic resources, including land, water resources  and forests. Most importantly, we have discovered that the development efforts made during the  past two decades have not affected for the better the great number of people living in rural  poverty.
7.12 In our country's current Fifth Development Plan, therefore, we stress the 'adjustment of  economic structure', rather than 'economic growth'; we stress ‘equality’ and ‘equity' as a goal for  all development efforts; we emphasize 'poverty alleviation’ for people in rural areas; and we  emphasize the closer co-ordination and integration of economic and social development efforts.
7.13 Mr President, we in Thailand see education, science and technology as having the special  mission of laying a firm foundation for overall development; at the same time we lay emphasis on  the cultural and economic self-reliance of people in rural areas using the mass media for  promoting their awareness and understanding and their participation in development.
7.14 It will therefore come as no surprise that Thailand welcomes Unesco's plans with regard to  the study and planning of development, as well as co-operation with Member States with a view to  identifying priority projects for development. We strongly believe that such programmes will be of  great benefit to developing and developed countries alike.
7.15 With regard to principles, methods and strategies of action for development, Thailand  further supports integrated and interdisciplinary approaches to the future implementation of  Unesco programmes. We also emphasize regional and subregional programmes, which, together with  the application of the principle of technical co-operation among developing countries (TCDC),  have proved to be acceptable and more useful to member countries in the developing world.
7.16 Mr President, the Thai delegation notes with great appreciation that Major Programmes XII  and XIII on ‘The elimination of prejudice, intolerance, racism and apartheid’ and on 'Peace,  international understanding, the freedom of the peoples and human rights' have been accorded  due prominence in the Draft Medium-Term Plan. Our country has always been against prejudices  and racism and has strongly condemned apartheid. In this area, we have co-operated with the  United Nations by making financial contributions towards education and training programmes and  to the United Nations Trust Funds; in 1978, we issued a special stamp to commemorate the  International Year against Apartheid. In Unesco's programme, we have participated in a number of  seminars and meetings, as well as study projects on teaching and the production of learning  materials on contemporary world problems, which include human rights and the struggle against  apartheid. We very much hope that Unesco's plans in the fields of education, science, culture and
154   communication will contribute further and positively to better understanding among peoples and  nations; and that ignorance and prejudices about inequality of men and races will, in the future,  cease to exist in all parts of the world.
7.17 Mr President, my delegation strongly believes that international understanding, the freedom  of the peoples and human rights will lead to peace in this world. We also believe that Unesco has  an important role to play in promoting international understanding concerning respect for human  rights through its programmes in education, science, culture and communication. This role has  been clearly defined and has, in the past, been manifested in the form of various declarations  adopted at various sessions of the General Conference. Here, in the Draft Medium-Term Plan, a  number of more concrete and concentrated subprogrammes have been proposed which will establish  guidelines for future biennial programmes and activities. My delegation reaffirms that Thailand will  continue to support and co-operate with the United Nations and Unesco in the promotion of  international understanding, respect for and understanding about human rights, particularly the  rights of women, youth, and handicapped people.
7.18 In this connection, the Thailand National Commission for Unesco has, following a resolution  of the Belgrade General Conference, set up a committee to co-ordinate the work being done by  various schoiars and institutions in Thailand on the teaching and dissemination of information on  human rights in our country. We have also prepared for publication a special Bulletin of the  Thailand National Commission for Unesco, devoted to the subject of the teaching of and infor-  mation about human rights teaching and research in Thailand, in commemoration of Human Rights  Day, which will be celebrated on 10 December next.
7.19 My delegation stresses here once again that education, science, culture, communication and  information are keys to better international understanding, the eradication of prejudice, and the  promotion of respect for human rights and of long-lasting peace in the minds of men.
7.20 Mr President, before I conclude, may I be permitted to take this opportunity to axpress my  delegation's congratulations to the Director-General and his staff for having faithfully followed the  guidelines and instructions of the last General Conference in preparing the present Draft  Medium-Term Plan. Although we received the document later than expected, we have been able to  appreciate the serious reflection and research, the hard work and the great intellectual care and  effort which have been put into its preparation by the Secretariat of Unesco, by the Member  States and by the other development agencies which participated in the Director-General's  consultation, as well as the inputs of the Executive Board in screening and giving preliminary  comments to the Director-General. All in all, my delegation feels that the Draft Medium-Term Plan  is a good and worthwhile document which, once adopted, will set a new tone tor the programmes  and activities of Unesco, in which the member countries which have adopted it will co-operate.
7.21 Mr President, my delegation takes this opportunity to extend its best wishes to all the  delegations participating in this General Conference, in the hope that together we can  successfully accomplish the task which we have gathered here to undertake.
7.22 Thank you, Mr President.
8. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Thailand, and I now give the floor to Mr Malcolm  Rifkind M.P., Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs,  Head of the Delegation of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
9.1 Mr RIFKIND (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, I am pleased to have this  opportunity of commenting on the long-awaited Draft Second Medium-Term Plan. This is a very  important document, and I would like to congratulate the Director-General and his colleagues on  its production. There are of course passages which we do not like, and my delegation will be  offering constructive criticism and amendments during the course of the Conference. But equally  the document has much to commend and to support in it.
9,2 May I begin with three preliminary comments concerning the form rather than the substance  of the Draft Plan. First, I am pleased to see that the question of resource allocations during the  period covered by the Plan is dealt with in an Appendix and does not form part of the Plan  proper. I suggest that, when the final version of the Plan is prepared after the Conference, this  Appendix should not be included. Second, the position of my government is clear on the related  question of finance for the first two years of the Plan. All United Nations bodies should submit to  the same financial disciplines as have been forced on Member States by the current international  economic situation. For this reason we cannot support any proposal which would imply real growth  for Unesco in 1984/1985. Third, we are disappointed that the Draft Plan omits the specific targets  for the various programmes and subprogrammes. The preparation of evaluation programmes with  the first draft programme and budget is obviously crucial. My delegation has therefore introduced  a draft resolution dealing with the preparation of such programmes.
9.3 As regards the content of the Draft Plan, I would like first to comment on the major  programmes concerned with education and science. We in the United Kingdom continue to believe  that these represent the most important and valuable side of Unesco's work and we find the  programmes in these areas broadly acceptable. Indeed, they show a marked improvement over the  corresponding texts in the first Medium-Term Plan. We welcome, in particular, the stress laid in  Major Programmes II, IV and V on practical activities aimed at helping developing countries to  meet their urgent educational needs, such as those concerned with literacy, primary education,  vocational training of all types and the production of teaching materials. At a different, but  equally important, level we are pleased to see recognition of the need for the educational sciences  and the integration of training and research to be given specific attention at the international  level, Similarly, in the science programmes we strongly support the twc main strategies for action  proposed, namely the underpinning of national training and research efforts, and the promotion of  international collaboration in science.
9.4 In this connection, I must stress our continuing support for the major intergovernmental  programmes concerned with the environment and with terrestrial and marine resources. These  continue to provide a fine example of international and regional co-operation, involving  governmental and non-governmental bodies. They also demonstrate that multiplier or catalyst  effect which we must seek to achieve throughout all Unesco's programmes.
9.5 Let me now turn to my main theme. I wish to concentrate on one aspect which is central to  the whole future of Unesco in the 1980s. This is the relationship of the individual to the society  in which he lives, and to the government under which he lives.
9.6 There is a dilemma, common to all cultures, of how to balance the collective wishes of the  community with the need to preserve individual freedom. We are quite sure that in striking this  balance, it is the latter--individual freedom-~that is, and which must always remain, paramount.  As President Karamanlis suggested in his excellent address this morning, it is the individual as a  free, logical being who stands at the core of civilization. Bearing this in mind, there are for us  aspects of topics dealt with by intergovernmental bodies such as Unesco which we do not believe  should be the concern of governments at all.
9.7 1 realize that this view will not be shared by everyone in this hall, coming from societies  where, for various reasons, there is a greater emphasis on the collective role of the community  than on the individual. Indeed, some may argue that my approach is a luxury which only a  relatively rich country can afford. To them, I would say two things. First, that the poorer the  society, the more urgent is the need to encourage creativity and inventiveness amongst its  citizens. Second, 1 would refer again to the document before us and in particular to  paragraph 185 of the First Part, which talks of the creative potential of mankind and of the  damage that would be caused to it by forced standardization.
9.8 This concept of individual freedom is fundamental, and should pervade all Unesco's  activities. What better message for the 1980s could Unesco give to the world in general than to  stress the prime importance of recognizing the infinite variety of human society and of the  individuals which make it up? What better message could Unesco give the rest of the United  Nations system and the other United Nations bodies with which it needs to co-operate? Our  Organization should seek not to duplicate work already being done elsewhere but to complement it  by stressing the responsibility of the international community for safeguarding the creative efforts  of the individual.
9.9 Let me turn now briefly to the four major programmes to be dealt with in the plenary. It  follows from what I have said that my government attaches importance to Major Programme XIII,  with particular emphasis on human rights, as defined internationally in the Universal Declaration  of Human Rights and the two Covenants. I stress this point of definition. It should not,  Mr President, be Unesco's role to extend the codification of human rights; this role should be left  to other United Nations bodies concerned specifically with human rights. Unesco's function must  be to promote their effective exercise, particularly within its own fields of competence.
9.10 The United Kingdom--may I stress this again--considers that the beneficiary of all human  rights--civil and political, as well as economic, social and cultural--must be the individual and not  the collectivity or the state. We also believe that the rights, as set out in the two United Nations  Covenants, should be pursued in parallel. Clearly, some rights are effectively realized by joint  action, for example, the right of people to periodic and genuine elections to express their will  and elect their government; but here again people are acting as individuals. The Covenants also  recognize that 'people' have rights and these are set out. But in much of Chapter XIII of the  Draft Medium-Term Plan, the impression is given that peoples' rights are in some way in  competition with individual human rights. This is not so, and cannot be so. The concept of  peoples' rights is meaningless unless it is intended to refer to individual human rights of people  as members of a particular group. Unesco must work on the basis of existing international human  rights instruments, and aim to promote among the peoples of the world an awareness of their  dignity and rights as individual human beings.
9.11 Paragraph 12016 of the document before us strikes the right note. It recognizes that 'the  problems arising from discrimination and prejudice are not matters which can be resolved by  legislation alone'. It is individual attitudes that have to be changed; and it is in this area, by  encouraging appropriate research and education, that Unesco's main task must lie.
9.12 Turning to Major Programmes I and VIII, 1 believe that if Unesco has a specific role in  these areas it is to act as a pressure group ceaselessly reminding other bodies and institutions  both within and outside the United Nations system that the particular interests of the individual  must not be ignored when consideration is given to the problems of the future and to development  in particular. This is what I hope the fashionable catch phrase, 'the cultural dimension of  development' actually means.
9.13 This principle, that the interests of the individual are paramount, applies to almost all  areas of Unesco's activities and should never be overlooked. Its importance must not be  underestimated when we are charting Unesco's future action and future progress in education,  science, culture or communication. I want to highlight the last of these, that is, communication,  and say something about Major Programme III, 'Communication in the service of man'. This is the  area of Unesco's work which worries us most in the United Kingdom. I believe that the direction  of the Organization's work in this area must be both specific and carefully defined. Its aim in  this field should be to promote understanding. Some of its present activity has tended to promote  division.
9,14 Let me spell out a little further what I mean. We shall have more to say about this in the  appropriate Commissior, but I should make a few points clear now. We in the United Kingdom  cannot tolerate ambiguities of definition as far as communication and the media are concerned. We  believe that a plurality of opinion should be allowed full expression in the media. Public opinici,  the barometer of the voice of the individual, always exists independently of the government, and  is often at variance with it. Some governments find this impossible to accept, and the temptation  to impose controls impossible to resist. We all know only too well the weapons they have at their  disposal: censorship; closure of newspapers; expulsion or imprisonment of journalists; the jamming  of radio transmissions. This sorry catalogue represents action which governments, not the  independent media, can inflict. Who then poses the greatest threat to the free and unrestricted  flow of information that we all seek as the key to greater international mutual understanding? 1 do  not believe that the text of Major Programme III reflects this adequately. We cannot ignore the  potential threat of government to the individual, whether a professional working in the media or a  consumer of information. It is Unesco's essential task to see that their interests are fully  safeguarded.
9.15 1 would make two further general points about Major Programme III. First of all it should be  free of any suggestion whatsoever that it is in any way Unesco's role to concern itself with the  content of news flows, or to be the arbiter of what the media should or should not do. Nor  should it, in the language it uses, appear to be condoning activity by governments which would  subject the media to control of this kind.
9,16 My second point goes wider, and I should like to conclude with it. We all recognize the  strenuous efforts which Unesco and the Director-General, in particular, have made to accommodate  the views of Member States. In his comment on Major Programmee III, the Director-General said  many things which reassured us, particularly his condemnation of censorship and self-censorship  in all its forms. He also made the valuable point that, if journalists are not allowed to exercise  their profession with complete honesty and freedom, freedom of information cannot be said to be  ensured. These are clarifications for which my government in particular is most grateful.
9.17 I single out these remarks because they illustrate a more general point. This is that what  Unesco says about its work in this and other areas is of most value when it can be free of all  ambiguity. This is the aim to be pursued. But, in the world as it is, its achievement is not  always possible. Let us take the new world information order. If it is to be anything, it must be  an evolving concept. Experience has shown that attempts to fix principles or guidelines in this  sort of crea are likely to divide us to no useful purpose. How, for example, can one seek by  lans,uage alone to bridge a gap between governments which practise jamming and censorship and  thuse which--like that of my country--regard such activities as wholly abhorrent? 1 do not believe  that attempts to reconcile the irreconcilable are useful. They breed misunderstanding and  mistrust.
9.18 In conclusion, Mr President, I believe that the high reputation which Unesco enjoys rests  upon its many achievements in areas far removed from the ideological battleground; and where its  concern is above all shown for the creative potential of individuals,
9.19 Thank you, Mr President.
10. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Head of the Delegation of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern  Ireland. I give the floor to H.E. Mr Alfonso Camacho-Peña, Minister of Education and Culture,  Head of the Delegation of Bolivia.
(11.1) M. CAMACHO PENA (Bolivie), - (Traduit de l'espagnol, )  Monsieur le Président, je tiens tout d'abord à vous féliciter de votre réélection à l'unanimité.  J'adresse également mes félicitations au Directeur général de l'Unesco, M, Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, pour  la façon brillante dont il administre cette organisation internationale et pour son discours plein d'enseigne-  ments qui approfondit et éclaire le Plan à moyen terme, dont nous approuvons le contenu,
(11,2) Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Messicurs les ministres et chefs des dé-  légations, Mesdames, Messieurs, la présente session couvre une série impressionnante d'activités me-  nées depuis plus de 35 ans par les Etats membres en coopération avec l'Unesco dans les domaines de  l'éducation, de la science, de la culture et de l'information,
(11,3) Je parle ici au nom d'un pays dont la marque, vue de l'extérieur, paraft être la discontinuité sur  le plan gouvernemental, bien que par ses traditions culturelles et son caractère national, il fasse preuve  d'une grande constance et d'une forte vitalité,
(11.4) D est certain que la plupart des Etats membres de l'Unesco peuvent faire état avec une juste fierté  des bons résultats qu'ils oni obtenus grâce aux politiques qui ont été appliquées tout au long des années  passées dans les domaines de compétence de l'Organisation,
(11.5) Pour notre part, nous venons annoncer un changement intervenu récemment en Bolivie et qui est  particulièrement digne d'être signalé à notre Organisation, Au mois d'octobre dernier, les Boliviens sont  parvenus, par des voies totalement pacifiques, à mettre en place un gouvernement démocratique représen-  tatif alors que, depuis près de vingt ans, un régime militaire détenait le pouvoir et n'avait pas permis au  pays de connaître autre chose que de brefs interrnèdes démocratiques,
(11.6) Les deux dernières années, en particulier, ont été très dures pour le peuple bolivien, qui a connu  une répression politique d'une intensité et d'un type inhabituels et qui a été victime d'un véritable pillage  économique, Depuis l'arrivée au pouvoir du nouveau gouvernement, de dures restrictions ont été imposées  au pays tout entier, Ayant pris acte de la situation catastrophique dans laquelle se trouvait la nation, le  Président de la Répub':que légitimement désigné, M, Hernän Siles Zuazo, a instamment demandé au peuple  d'accepter les privations d'une économie de guerre.
(11.7) Pour mener à bien ce gigantesque effort national visant à donner définitivement au pays une assise  constitutionnelle et à rétablir les fondements de son économie, la Bolivie va avoir besoin de toute l'aide  que pourra lui apporter la solidarité internationale,
(11.8) En même temps que nous affrontons cette crise si grave, nous devons reprendre le cours de nos  préoccupations les plus profondes et les plus durables, qui correspondent aux objectifs définis par l'Unesco.
(11.9) Bien entendu, pour la Bcsivie comme pour beaucoup d'autres Etats du Tiers Monde, il existe un  décalage important entre ces objectifs essentiels et les réalités du pays dans le domaine de l'éducation,  de la science, de la culture et de l'information.
(11.10) Aujourd'hui plus que jamais, nous sommes conscients de l'importance de l'éducation - condition  indispensable à l'exercice des droits civiques dans un pays démocratique, Nous devons toutefois reconnaître  que le taux d'analphabétisme est très élevé et que la situation est rendue plus complexe par l'existence des  diverses langues et cultures indigènes des communautés nationales qui sont les plus nombreuses car la  culture dominante - la culture hispanique - est, à peu de chose près, celle d'un tiers seulement de la  population, Nous savons varfaitement que la Bolivie est depuis très longtemps une communauté pluricultu-
161   relle quéchua, aymara, guarani et espagnole qui doit donc se nourrir de chacune de ses composantes sans  qu'aucune soit mise en position d'infériorité, En fait, nous constatons chaque jour le caractère dominant,  au plan culturel et linguistique, de la langue espagnole, seul moyen, pour mes concitoyens, d'accéder au  système éducatif et d'améliorer leurs conditions de travail et d'existence,
(11.11) Nous souhaitons, nous aussi, que la science et la technologie aident le pays à se développer de  façon autonome, mais nous savons que le niveau technique et scientifique de nos établissements d'ensei-  gnement et de recherche est insuffisant pour qu'il soit possible de choisir efficacement les connaissances  et les techniques les mieux adaptées à nos besoins, Par ailleurs, les individus exceptionnels qui se dis-  tinguent dans ces domaines ont tendance à quitter le pays, contribuant ainsi à l'exode des cerveaux.
(11.12) Nous nous associons aux réflexions et aux efforts menés en vue de créer un nouvel ordre inter-  national de l'information car nous pensons que les moyens de communication modernes doivent être des  instruments au service de la libération politique, de l'avancement de l'éducation et du développement éco-  nomique, La presse, la radio, la télévision et les sources dont elles dépendent sont la preuve que, dans  notre pays, l'information reste avant tout une marchandise, Il faut reconnaître toutefois, qu'au cours des  dernières années, la presse et la radio ont joué un rôle décisif dans la démocratisation du pays, malgré  les nombreuses campagnes de désinformation orchestrées depuis l'étranger,
(11,13) Notre nouvelle politique vise à combler ces lacunes, Pour assurer une participation active au  processus démocratique, l'éducation doit d'abord préparer à la vie professionnelle, c'est-à-dire, prati-  quement, alphabétiser, Nous devons contrôler les innovations techniques importées de l'étranger à des  fins commerciales, si nous voulons élever le niveau de nos établissements d'enscignement supérieur et  faire en sorte que les techniciens boliviens puissent déterminer la valeur de ces connaissances et les ap-  pliquer dans l'industrie et l'agriculture nationales.
(11,14) Nous devons tenter de rétablir un équilibre entre les cultures en donnant leur chance rion seule-  ment aux hispanophones mais aussi aux communautés - majoritaires - qui parlent aymara et quéchua, En  matière de communication au niveau international, nous devons devenir des acteurs au lieu de rester de  simples consommateurs, Dans chacun de ces domaines, nous sommes au début d'un nouvel effort pour  lequel l'aide de l'Unesco peut être décisive,
(11.15) En même temps, en assistant à cette session, nous sommes préoccupés par l'avenir de 1'Orga-  nisation, Nous ne voulons pas nous borner à évoquer nos difficultés et nos problèmes, Nous espérons fer-  mement les surmonter, g"%ce à de nouveaux sacrifices de notre peuple,
(11,16) L'Unesco réunit une vaste somme d'expérience accessible à tous les Etats membres et qui ré-  sulte de plusieurs décennies d'études ct d'activités réalisées en coopération dans différentes régions du  monde, Nous appuierons les efforts visant à la création, dans différents secteurs utiles, de centres d'ex-  périmentation régionaux intégrés au milieu environnant et qui seront en mesure de tirer parti de l'expé-  rience acquise par l'Unesco sans donner l'impression d'être des éléments étrangers destinés à exporter  des expériences vers les seules métropoles sans laisser beaucoup de ressources durables dans le pays.
(11.17) En Bolivie, nous avons pris conscience de la nécessité d'élargir les cadres d'activité dans les-  quels l'éducation, la science et la culture sont habituellement cantonnées, Dans mon pays, 30 % environ  du budget national est consacré à l'éducation, Pourtant 48 % seulement de la population bolivienne d'âge  scolaire est effectivement scolarisée, Le taux d'analphabétisme de la population adulte, en particulier  dans les campagnes, atteint 35 % et la plupart des analphabètes sont des femmes, Les ressources humaines  du pays sont limitées ; malgré un taux de croissance de 2, 62 % par an, la Bolivie ne compte qu'un peu plus  de 5 millions d'habitants, soit une densité de cing habitants au kilometre carré.
(11,18) Le gouvernement constitutionnel de la Bolivie voit dans le projet majeur en éducation pour  l'Amérique latine et les Caraïbes et dans ses objectifs pour l‘an 2000 : alphabétisation généralisée, sco-  larisation complète et amélioration qualitative de l'enseignement, une source réelle d'inspiration dans le  combat u'il mène pour éliminer l'analphabétisme et ouvrir l'école à tous,
(11.19) La sous-utilisation des ressources de l'Etat est évidente. Le nombre d'élèves par maître est de
19 dans le cycle élémentaire et de 17 dans les cycles intermédiaire et moyen, Lz moyenne est d'un pro-  fesseur pour 18 élèves du secondaire, ce qui devrait se traduire par un bon taux de réussite au baccalau-  réat, Pourtant, tel n'est pas le cas et beaucoup de ces élèves n'entrent jamais à l'Université ou dans  d'autres établissements d'enseignement supérieur,
(11,20) Il faudra que les écoles normales soient plus efficaces et moins nombreuses, Les enseignants  en activité ont besoin de cours de recyclage et de perfectionnement, Il est certain qu'un bon maître joue  un rôle décisif dans la formation d'un bon citoyen, Les plus compétents doivent pouvoir exercer leur p:a-  fession au niveau universita/ re,
(11,21) Notre première priorité en matière d'éducation est l'aiphabétisation, Celle-ci doit être fonc-  tionnelle et s'inspirer des expériences menées en matière d'éducation bilingue ; elle doit combiner l'em-  ploi de méthodes classiques et de méthodes modernes,
(11,22) Notre deuxième priorité est la formation des enseignants, Les maîtres et le personnel adminis-  tratif forment une sorte de grande armée civile de 70,000 membres, Il faut que la routine, les préjugés  et l'ignorance soient bannis de la pratique quotidienne de l'enseignement,
(11.23) Notre troisième priorité doit être l'éducation accélérée des adultes, notamment grâce aux moyens  de communication de masse,
(11,24) En ce qui concerne la politique culturelle, le gouvernement démocratique bolivien place au pre-  mier rang la conservation de notre patrimoine ainsi que l'étude et la diffusion de nos valeurs culturelles ;  cette politique vise en outre à encourager la création artistique et à favoriser la mise en place d'une vé-  ritable démocratie culturelle,
(11,25) L'approfondissement de notre identité culturelle passe par le respect des cultures ct des langues  autochtones, leur intégration et leur participation à la vie d'un pays qui ne sera vraiment lui-même que  s'il accepte démocratiquement la diversité culturelle ct linguistique de ses différentes communautés  nationales,
(11,26) Cette recherche d'une identité doit être complétée par la promotion des échanges interculturels,  un dialogue entre les cultures fondé sur des rapports d'égalité et par d'autres pratiques qui rompent avec  la dépendance, l'aliénation et le colonialisme.
(11.27) Pour toutes ces raisons, notre politique culturelle correspond bien à ce que l'Unesco prévoit en  matière de culture dans le Projet de plan à moyen terme, Nous approuvons sans réserve la partie du do-  cument dans laquelle il est dit que la sauvegarde du patrimoine implique également la restitution des  oeuvres, monuments et biens culturels pillés par les puissances coloniales, Il est évident que la Bolivie  a souffert elle aussi de ce pillage, Nous nous rallions totalement à la proposition que les pays qui dé-  tiennent des oeuvres d'art prélevées illégalement les restituent par un acte élémentaire de réparation  historique,
(11.28) Il semble étrange qu'une ville comme Potosi ne soit pas encore inscrite sur la Liste du patrimoine  culturel mondial, L'éminente assemblée que vous constituez ici en connaît l'histoire, La contribution de  cette ville coloniale au développement économique - et donc culturel - de l'Europe occidentale est dans la  conscience des Etats membres, Point d'origine d'un minerai d'argent extrait de ses mines et exporté par  milliers de tonnes vers le Vieux Continent, Potosi constitue aujourd'hui un témoignage d'un grand intérêt  culturel, Le gouvernement démocratique bolivien se propose de réparer cette omission en recherchant  tout l'appui nécessaire pour restituer à Potosfl'importance historique et artistique qu'elle a pour l'humanité.
(11.29) La domination culturelle exercée par les grandes puissances tient, pour une part non négligeable,  au fonctionnement injuste et inéquitable du système mondial d'information qui existe actuellement, Nous  ne tolérons plus de n'obtenir des nouvelles et des commentaires qu'en fonction du bon vouloir de ceux qui  dominent le monde sans se préoccuper de nos caractéristiques et de nos besoins propres.
(11.30) Nous constatons qu'il existe tout vn système transnational de l'information reposant sur la situa-  tion de monopole de certaines agences de presse et sur l'existence de programmes de radio préfabriqués  et de programmes vidéo "en boîte". Les peuples ainsi alimentés perdent leur personnalité pour devenir  les instruments indifférenciés de la consommation de masse, Il est indispensable que l'Unesco contribue  à faire cesser cette forme de domination culturelle, car beaucoup des pays concernés ne disposent pas  individuellement des moyens de défense nécessaires,
(11,31) La liberté d'entreprise pour les sociétés transnationales du secteur de la communication ne sau-  rait être confondue avec la liberté de la presse et la liberté d'opinion que chaque peuple peut et doit reven-  diquer, Il est donc urgent que l'Unesco et les pays victimes de la manipulation de l'information constituent  un front unique de défenses des valeurs asservies, en consacrant leurs efforts communs à l'instauration  d'un nouvel ordre international de l'information, tâche à la réalisation de laquelle la Bolivie apporte tout  son appui,
(11,32) Monsieur le Président, au début de l'année 1983, le Vice-Président constitutionnel de la Répu-  blique bolivienne, M. Jaime Paz Zamora, se rendra dans divers pays européens pour coordonner les  actions de solidarité internationales avec le programme d'urgence national dit "Accidn Bolivia",
(11,33) Nous savons que l'instauration d'une démocratie durable en Bolivie suppose un redressement  économique rapide et un développement soutenu des forces productives du pays.
(11,34) Après tant d'années de régime autoritaire pendant lesquelles la politique nationale était soumise  à lu force, nous devons entreprendre une campagne d'éducation politique ; pour que la démocratie puisse  survivre ef Bolivie, il faut maintenant donner une large diffusion à divers modes de participation politique  dans le cadre d'un système représentatif, déterminer les limites dans lesquelles pourront s'exercer la  concurrence et la coopération avec l'adversaire politique, et établir un ordre de succession constitutionnel  qui soit respecté, La création d'habitudes de conduite politique dans un cadre démocratique constitue ac-  tuellement une tâche prioritaire pour le peuple bolivien, Nous pensons que l'Unesco pourra aider la Bo-  livie à mettre en place des structures permettant de tirer parti d'expériences positives dans ce domaine,
(11.35) II est au moins aussi urgent que nous nous engagions dans une campagne d'éducation politique  pour la démocratie et les droits de l'homme en nous appuyant sur des institutions appropriées et en ayant  recours aux moyens de diffusion de masse,
(11,36) Monsieur le Président, les idéaux de l'Unesco sont actuellement mis à l'épreuve de la réalité  en Bolivie, L'apport de notre pays est, comme toujours, l'immense sacrifice consenti par le peuple lui-  même, En cette heure difficile, qui est aussi celle de l'espoir, non seulemes.t pour la Bolivie mais aussi
163   pour les autres peuples d'Amérique qui suivent l'expérience bolivienne avec intérêt, nous nous adressons  A cette assemblée et à la communauté internationale pour qu'elle soutienne nos efforts pour consolider une  démocratie qui reste exposée à des dangers intérieurs ct extérieurs et pour mettre en place un système  de gouvernement qui respecte les droits de l'homme et qui rendra possible l'épanouissement de la science,  de la culture et de l'éducation dans un climat de liberté, de justice sociale et de tolérance politique, Je  vous remercie,
12. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Bolivia, I give the floor to H.E. Mr Franck Saint-  Victor, Secretary of State for Education, Head of the Delegation of Haiti.
13,1 M. SAINT-VICTOR (Hafti), -  Merci, Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président, je voudrais en tout premier lieu  vous adresser mes plus chaleureuses et mes plus sincères félicitations pour votre réélection  à la présidence de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco,
13,2 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les dé-  légués, j'ai l'honneur et le plaisir de vous apporter le salut fraternel de la République d'Hafti  et de son peuple, Je me réjouis de ma participation à cette réunion de sages, qui n'ont comme  moyens d'action que l'esprit, dont l'objectif est d'agir sur les esprits, les consciences et les  - coeurs et qui sont appelés à chercher, dans les voies de l'esprit, des solutions aux plus urgents  problèmes auxquels se trouve confrontée la communauté internationale,
13.3 Dans la préface de "L'esprit des lois'', Montesquieu suppliait le lecteur "de ne pas juger,  par la lecture d'un moment, d'un ouvrage de vingt années ; d'approuver ou de condamner le livre  entier, et non pas quelques phrases", Avec la distance, et abstraction faite de certaines erreurs  d'interprétation dont l'ouvrage a été l'objet, cette précaution semble une coquetterie de la part  du baron de La Brède, car la solidité, la cohérence de "L'esprit des lois', la nouveauté de son  contenu à l'époque interdisaient toute lecture désinvolte et tout jugement hâtif, Le Directeur  général de l'Unesco et son Secrétariat n'ont pas besoin de faire précéder d'une précaution sem-  blable le Projet de plan à moyen terme pour 1984-1989 que nous examinons à cette quatrième  session extraordinaire, Riche de l'expérience du Plan à moyen terme pour 1977-1982 qui  s'achève, ce nouveau document s'impose au lecteur par sa conception, sa densité, la hauteur  des vues qui y sont exprimées et le réalisme des solutions qu'il propose, De plus, en abordant  les problèmes de notre temps dans une vision planétaire, en recherchant les relations mutuelles  entre les diverses questions qu'affronte l'humanité, ce document témoigne que notre XXe siècle  finissant mérite et méritera sans doute dans l'avenir le norn de siècle de la structure, soucieux  au plus haut point de considérer les problèmes dans leur totalité et de tenir les détails pour  partie intégrante du tout,
13.4 Dans les années 50 de ce siècle, un homme d'Etat américain, Wendell Wilkie, publiait  un livre au titre alors percutant : "Le monde est un", En effet, les progrès de la navigation  aérienne stimulés par la Deuxième Guerre mondiale permettaient de toucher en quelques heures  des points de la planète qu'on n'atteignait auparavant qu'après plusieurs jours ou même plusieurs  semaines de navigation maritime ; les séquelles de la guerre se manifestaient même dans des  pays restés en dehors du conflit, Et pourtant les avions à réaction ne s'étaient pas encore multi-  pliés ; la télévision n'était pas devenue commerciale ; l'homme n'avait pas encore conquis  l'espace,
13,5 Aujourd'hui, les nouveaux progrès de la science et de la technologie et certaines évolu-  tions intervenues dans le commerce mondial et dans les relations internationales nous donnent  une perception et une conscience aiguës de J'unité de notre planète, On ne peut mesurer les  conséquences d'un accident atomique ; la télévision, en projetani sous nos yeux les visages dé-  solés des réfugiés de tous pays, nous interdit de rester indifférents à leur sort.
13,6 L'unité du monde et la montée des interdépendances mettent davantage en évidence les  contrastes et les inégalités qui caractérisent notre époque, D'un côté, au Nord, des hommes  et des femmes sont obligés de recourir aux médecins parce qu'ils sont surnourris ; de l'autre,  au Sud, des populations entières mènent une existence amoindrie par la faim, la sous-alimentation  et la malnutrition, D'un côté, au Nord, on en est au point d'organiser l'Université du troisième  âge, alors que de l'autre, au Sud, des millions d'enfants et d'adultes sont privés de la formation  la plus élémentaire et sont condamnés à être broyés dans l'engrenage du sous-développemer:t et  du chômage, D'un côté, au Nord, des sociétés sûres d'elles-mêmes et qui, prenant fortement  appui sur leurs connaissances, leurs réalisations techniques, leurs traditions et leurs croyances,  poursuivent allègrement leur développement ; de l'autre au Sud, des sociétés timides ou plutôt
164   intimidées, victimes d'un processus d'uniformisation des modes de vie ci de pensée, ct qui se  perçoivent dans l'ensemble telles que les voient les autres, qui ont honte de leur culture, de  leur langue, de leurs traditions el qui sont par conséquent incapables d'en faire "un moteur de  leur histoire'', d'y voir "une dynamique interne, un processus de création continue d'une société  par elle-même"
13.7 Dans ce monde déchiré par des asymétries et des inégalités, des sociétés sont dressées  les unes contre les autres, rivalisent d'ardeur dans la course aux armements et consacrent à  des engins de destruction des sommes fabuleuses dont la dixième partie pourrait permettre de  faire face aux problèmes fondamentaux qui se posent à l'humanité et en particulier à celui d'un  développement envisagé suivant une vision planétaire. La menace atomique fait planer le spectre  de la peur sur tous les peuples, sous-dév-loppés, développés et surdéveloppés, sur les derniers  surtout qui sentent qu'ils ont tout à perdre dans une catastrophe mondiaie,
13.8 Dans cette situation complexe et préoccupante, l'Unesco pense qu'il es. non seulement  possible, mais indispensable et urgent de surmonter les oppositions de notre époque, car les  multiples frictions qui déchirent notre monde doivent le céder aux raisons de coopérer, Tel est  le fondement des treize grands programmes élaborés par le Directeur général et le Secrétariat  de l'Organisation et sur lesquels notre assemblée est appelée à se prononcer,
13.9 Les treize grands programmes forment un bloc infrangible : il semble difficile de sup-  primer aucun d'entre eux sans porter atteinte à la totalité. De plus l'ensemble des treize grands  programmes n'est pas loin de réaliser ce qu'un savant de notre époque, Louis Hjelmslev, appelle  la simplification idéale : en partant de tel ou tel d'entre eux jugé essentiel, par exemple, le grand  programme I : Réflexion sur les problèmes mondiaux et études prospectives, le grand pro-  gramme XIII : Paix, compréhension internationale, liberté des peuples et droits de l'homme, ou  encore le grand programme II : L'éducation pour tous, on arrive à expliquer aisément tous les  autres,
13,10 Si les treize grands programmes constituent un tout inséparable, il n'en reste pas moins  qu'à l'intérieur du tout, certains déplacements et regroupements paraissent souhaitables, Ainsi  le grand programme VI : Les sciences et leur application au développement, et le grand pro-  gramme IX : Science, technologie et société gagneraient à être rapprochés, car si le grand pro-  gramme VI a le mérite de faire ressortir la nécessité de recourir à toutes les sciences, les  sciences sociales et humaines tout comme les sciences exactes et naturelles, pour avoir une vue  totale de l'homme, et de réhabiliter ainsi les sciences sociales et humaines, le grand programme IX  reprend et continue le VI en soulignant toutefois que la science et la technologie doivent servir  l'homme au lieu de l'asservir, en mettant les jeunes sociétés en garde contre une importation  sauvage de la technologie, en insistant sur la nécessité d'un équilibre entre la technologie im-  portée et les pratiques et savoir-faire traditionnels pour un véritable développement endogène,
13,11 Le grand programme III : La communication au service des hommes et le grand pro-  gramme VII : Système d'information et accès à la connaissance ont également entre eux une liai-  son étroite et méritent d'être rapprochés, D'ailleurs, il est dit dans le Projet même que la com-  munication et l'information sont ''liées entre elles'', mais diffèrent surtout parleurs destinataires,  La problématique de la communication est "celle des médias, axée sur la collecte et la circula-  tion des nouvelles, ainsi que sur la production et la diffusion des messages auprès du grand pu-,  blic'' tandis que "l'information spécialisée (est) destinée notamment aux chercheurs, aux savants",  Il est évident que lz communication et l'information sont des armes à double tranchant, Nés du  savoir et source de nouveaux savoirs, source aussi de pouvoir culturel, économique et même  politique, les moyens de communication et d'information peuvent accentuer les inégalités déjà  existantes, porter atteinte à l'identité culturelle des peuples récepteurs en leur présentant une  image déformée d'eux-mêmes ; paralyser, sous leur forme populaire - radio, télévision -, la  réflexion et le choix, pour aboutir à être, comme le dit Georges Duhamel, la négation de ce  qu'on a nommé jusqu'ici la culture, Mais aussi quelle ressource pour la formation continue,  pour la rénovation des méthodes et des contenus de l'éducation, pour le rapprochement et la  coopération entre les peuples, si l'on parvient à édifier un nouvel ordre mondial de la commu-  nication et de l'information !
13.12 Le grand programme II : Education pour tous ; le grand programme IV : Conception et  mise en oeuvre des politiques de l'éducation et le grand programme V : Education, formation et  société méritent aussi d'être rapprochés et valent quelques brefs commentaires, Ces trois  grands programmes doivent être rangés, à mon avis, parmi les plus importants du Plan à  moyen terme ; si le but final de l'Unesco est le développement envisagé dans une vision plané-
165   taire, comment l'atteindra-t-elle si elle n'encourage pas une expansion et une amélioration  continues des systèmes éducatifs dans les Etats membres et principalement dans les pays dé-  favorisés ; si elle ne pousse pas à la généralisation de l'école fondamentale et à une lutte  acharnée contre l'analphabétisme des adultes ; si elle ne suscite pas une rénovation des mé-  thodes et des contenus de l'éducation de façon que, dans les pays en développement surtout,  l'apprenant soit doté de savoirs et de savoir-faire qui lui permettent de s'adapter d'abord à son  environnement physique, social et culturel, puis d'assurer la continuité et lc renouvellement de  la société ? Comment affronter les obstacles et créer les conditions d'une éducation pour le dé-  veloppement humain sans adopter une politique d'ensemble qui prend appui sur la planification,  l'administration et la gestion de l'éducation ?
13,13 En dépit de ces déplacements, les treize programmes, dans leur ensemble, resteront  liés aux cinq missions de l'Unesco : une réflexion continue sur les problèmes du monde actuel ;  l'élargissement de la participation des individus et des groupes à la vie des sociétés ; le renfor-  cement de la capacité d'utiliser les savoirs et le développement de ces savoirs eux-mêmes ; la  coopération en vue de faciliter les évolutions et les transitions ; le renouvellement des valeurs  et la promotion de la compréhension en‘re les peuples, de la paix et des droits de l'homme,
13,14 Les grands programmes I : Réflexion sur les problèmes mondiaux et études prospec-  tives ; VIII : Principes, méthodes et stratégies de l'action pour le développement ; XI: La cul-  ture et l'avenir ; XII : Elimination des préjugés, de l'intolérance, du racisme et de l'apartheid  et XIII : Paix, compréhension internationale, liberté des peuples et droits de l'homme sont aussi  d'une pertinence indiscutable et leur distribution au début, au milieu et à la fin du Plan est par-  ticulièrement significative : ils représentent les fondations et les colonnes de soutien de l'édifice,  La réflexion sur les problèmes mondiaux sert de support à tout l'ensemble, tandis que la paix,  la compréhension internationale, la liberté des peuples et les droits de l'homme constituent lo  condition sine qua non de la mise en oeuvre des autres grands programmes,
13,15 Sur les indications de ressources, je crois qu'il est sage de ne pas me prononcer et de  faire confiance aux experts financiers de l'Organisation,
13.16 Si achevé que soit le Plan à moyen terme pour 1984-1989, il appelle cependant de sérieux  ajustements en ce qui concerne les pays en développement, Bien que le Directeur général ait  consulté tous les États membres et tenu compte de leurs réponses, la stratégie d'action corres-  pondant à certains grands programmes semble quelque peu difficile à mettre en oeuvre pour bon  nombre de pays qui en sont à l'ABC de la planification, de l'administration et de la gestion de  l'éducation par exemple, ou dont un cinquième seulement des enseignants sont qualifiés, ou qui  possèdent à peine cinq archivistes ou bibliothécaires professionnels.
13,17 Il reste aussi souhaitable que l'action de l'Unesco soit mieux connue de ceux pour qui  elle agit. En dehors de certaines grandes commémorations comme la Journée internationale de  l'alphabétisation, les activités de l'Organisation ne touchent en général que les cadres des com-  missions nationales. Puisse l'Unesco profiter des grands moyens populaires de communication  pour faire connaître aux masses des Etats membres ce qu'elle peut pour elles, car c'est en fai-  sant prendre conscience au grand nombre qu'elle s'assurera du meilleur soutien à son programme,  Merci, Monsieur le Président,
14. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Haiti. I give the floor to i!,E. Mr Cayetano Licciardo,  Minister of Education, Head of the Delegation of Argentina.
(15.1) M. LICCIARDO (Argentine), - (Traduit de l'espagnol.)  Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi de joindre mes félicitations à celles qui vous ont été adressées  pour votre réélection méritée à un poste où vous faites preuve de tant de sagesse et de compétence,
(15,2) Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif,  Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, Mesdames, Messieurs, je tiens tout d'abord à souligner que mon  gouvernement et moi-même approuvons le contenu du Plan et des documents qui l'accompagnent, lesquels  forment ensemble un cadre conceptuel définissant les caractéristiques d'une éducation tournée vers l'ave-  nir et d'inspiration moderne. Je voudrais aussi féliciter le Directeur général et ses collaborateurs, le  Conseil exécutif et le Secrétariat pour leur sens de la coopération, qui montre, une fois de plus, l'intelli-  gence et la générosité avec lesquelles ils s'attachent à trouver des moyens efficaces pour atteindre des  objectifs bien définis,
(15,3) La problématique mondiale et ses diverses manifestations sont décrites et analysées dans l'en-  semble des textes soumis à notre examen, Cela me dispensera d'évoquer tout ce qui permet d'affirmer  que l'homme moderne court le risque de se fondre dans la multitude, de perdre sa personnalité et même  de disparaître totalement s'il n'est pas préparé à assumer les conséquences du progrès technique et de  la spécialisation,
(15, 4) Nous qui nous occupons d'éducation et qui avons des responsabilités politiques dans la gestion des  moyens nécessaires à l'accomplissement des fonctions culturelles, nous sentons et nous constatons que,  si nous ne réussissons pas à agir sur les causes, la préparation dont j'ai parlé ne suffira pas.
(15,5) Car, s'il est certain que l'homme moderne est préoccupé, il n'a peut-être pris pleinement cons-  cience de la gravité de ce qui peut arriver si l'on continue de sacrifier sur l'autel du progrès ce qui fait  la substance même de l'être humain, La spécialisation nous rapproche dangereusement de l'éclatement  de la personnalité, L'homme intégral est de moins en moins demandé, On ne fait appel à lui qu’en fonc-  tion de la place qu'il peut occuper ; non comme à un être qui partage et s'associe, mais comme à un  rouage d'un engrenage colossal, à un élément d'un mécanisme composé de pièces que l'on peut changer  quand elles ne fonctionnent plus,
(15.6) La surinformation et la propagande, quant à elles, éloignent l'homme de la réalité, ce qui justifie  le bien-fondé du grand programme III : La communication au service des hommes", Les hommes qui ré-  fléchissent sont rares, Nombreux sont, au contraire, ceux qui règlent leur conduite sur l'opinion des  autres ou qui souscrivent passivement à des slogans et, par suite, manquent de conviction, Ds s'installent  dans une sorte d'univers des lieux communs, confondant l'ordre pratique et la réalité et se qualifiant eux-  mêmes de réalistes sans se rendre compte qu'ils sont immergés dans un faux réalisme parce que, sans  chercher à connaître les causes, ils vivent perpétuellement à la surface et fuient toute réflexion, Ils  sombrent dans la frivolité et dans la médiocrité.
(15,7) Sollicités par des problèmes pressants, combien de fois, sous prétexte d'attendre une meilleure  occasion, qui ne se présente jamais, ne renonçons-nous pas à l'approfondissement qui conduit au coeur  des choses et à la réflexion qui, à partir de là, aide à mieux percevoir la réalité, Nous nous contentons  alors d'une vision unilatérale ou partielle, ou bien nous nous cantonnons dans une spécialisation qui ne  répond qu'à des objectifs immédiats.
(15,8) C'est pourquoi, bien que les textes qui composent le Plan le disent explicitement ou implicitement,  j'ai tenu à prendre la parole pour tenter une réflexion que je souhaite partager avec ceux qui occupent des  fonctions identiques ou semblables aux miennes, et pour mettre en lumière une obligation fondamentale  qu'il ne faut pas négliger même si elle paraft évidente : la formation de l'intelligence au service de la  vérité et celle de l'Ame et du coeur au service du bien,
(15.9) Car la vérité ouvre la voie A la justice, comme celle-ci est la condition de la paix. C'est la vérité  qui fait de nous des êtres libres, parce qu'elle nous affranchit de l'erreur, Et la justice, la paix et la  liberté sont l'aspiration permanente de l'homme car c'est en elles que résident le respect de sa dignité  et sa relation vitale avec la société, qui le porte à respecter les autres, à se sentir solidaire du corps  social et à travailler pour le bien commun, objectifs sur lesquels tendent les grands programmes XII  et XIII,
(15,10) Le jour où, au lieu de nous demander : que dois-je faire pour vivre mieux ?, nous nous deman-  derons : que puis-je faire pour que les autres vivent mieux ?, nous saurons par surcroft si nous avançons  ou reculons sur la voie du développement, Mais passer d'un interrogation à l'autre risque d'être difficile  sans une recherche préalable de la vérité, qui est l'élément essentiel de l'unité, Ce n'est qu'à partir de  l'unité dans la vérité que l'on peut avancer vers la concorde dans la diversité, C'est la discorde - et non  la diversité - qui cause les mésententes et la désunion,
(15.11) I convient donc d'appuyer résolument tous les efforts entrepris pour que l'éducation contribue à  la découverte des valeurs, comme le dit fort bien le grand programme V : "Education, formation et so-  ciété''. La découverte des valeurs, depuis les plus directement utiles jusqu'aux valeurs morales et reli-  gieuses, que l'on découvre selon une progression bien connue vers le haut qui nous conduit, après avoir  fait entrer l'activité économique dans le domaine de la culture, à relier le spirituel au temporel, consé-  quence normale de la relation que nous établissons entre notre foi individuelle et notre vie quotidienne,  Efforgons-nous de ne pas justifier par notre comportement le dicton selon lequel à force de ne pas penser,  à force de ne pas vivre comme on pense, on finit par penser comme on vit :  Ainsi la lumière si rapide  Cherche où rebondir.  Ainsi l'interminable lac gris  A la nostalgie d'un rivage.  chantait le poète Ddmaso Alonso,
(15.12) Si nous partons du principe que l'homme doit se respecter lui-même, nous donnerons un sens  réel et authentique à notre désir d'étzblir un lien entre le système éducatif et la famille et les efforts  visant à la sauvegarde du rôle socio-éducatif de l'institution de la famille afin de garantir une socialisa-  tion harmonieuse du citoyen", comme le dit la recommandation n° 94 de la récente Conférence mondiale  sur les politiques culturelles, après avoir mentionné la Charte africaine des droits de l'homme et des  peuples, et comme cela ressort du grand programme dont je viens de parler.
(15.13) Ca” c'est au sein de la famille que se transmettent en premier lieu les valeurs, à commencer  par la.vérité. C'est dans la famille que se produit le miracle de l'amour et que naissent les premiers  liens de solidarité qui, plus tard, uniront les peuples s'ils restent fidèles à ces principes, à ces notions  premières, qui ne se discutent pas parce qu'ils nous viennent de nos ancêtre et nous rappellent à chaque  instant la preuve que les plantes qui n'ont pas de racines sont soumises au moindre souffle du vent. C'est  dans la far:lle que l'on apprend le respect de la parole.
(15,14) Rviouissons-nous alors de la place rendue aux Anciens - qui sont la mémoire des peuples et dont  il est également question dans la recommandation citée plus haut, où l'on peut lire que les États membres  doivent ‘’oeuvrer à la préservation de la place des personnes Agées dans la famille",
(15.15) Ce sont les formes sans contenu qu'il faut modifier lorsqu'on s'aperçoit qu'elles sont dépourvues  de sens pour qui les regarde. Par exemple, si l'on se préoccupe du progrès de l'éducation en milieu rural,  dont il est question dans l'un des sous-programmes, on ne peut se fonder seulement sur des considérations  techniques, didactiques ou même scientifiques, Ce qui compte, c'est l'identification du paysan avec sa  terre et, au-delà, la valorisation de la famille paysanne, qui sait apprécier la vérité que lui offre la na-  ture et, dépassant les préoccupations individuelles, éprouve le besoin de consolider les liens de solidarité,
(15,16) Avant de conclure, je voudrais présenter quelques réflexions sur les orientations définies par  le Plan dans le domaine de la condition de la femme, Si nous sommes convaincus de la nécessité d'amé-  liorer la condition de la femme, ce que personne ne met en doute aujourd'hui, la sauvegarde du rôle socio-  éducatif de la famille pourrait prendre un aspect nouveau si elle débouchait sur une revalorisation du rôle  de la mère - chef-d'oeuvre de la création - qui n'acquiert pas forcément ou seulement sa dimension dans  la maternité physique, mais dans la réalisation de son inclination naturelle vers le don total de soi, le  désir de répandre le bonheur et l'art de persuader,
(15,17) Tel est le sens de la dignité de la femme, qui ne doit pas être mesurée par comparaison avec  celle de l'homme, mais s'impose tout naturellement par elle-même, On a dit à juste titre qu'il n'y avait  pas l'univers de l'homme et celui de la femme, mais que l'un et l'autre se coutenaient mutuellement,  Meme si elle remonte à plusieurs décennies, on peut citer la remarqu de Gertrud von le Fort selon la-  quelle, bien que par ses talents la femme apparaisse comme l'égale de l'homme, clle trouve son épa-  nouissement au-delà de sa propre personne, En effet, la femme transmet ses talents à la génération qui  suit, Née pour être la gardienne du mystère de la vie, le monde lv, appartient de façon naturelle et elle  rend possible la rencontre du verbe et de l'esprit. La sagesse est sa vocation car c'est en elle que s'ac-  complit la parole, Le même auteur a très bien souligné que le meilleur moyen de détruire le monde est  de dénaturer la femme, puisque cela revient à méconnaftre la loi de l'amour et l'existence du mystère,
(15.18) Hans Moritz l'a très bien dit : du fait de l'industrialisation, la famille a perdu le père, qui a dû  quitter la maison pour la faire vivre, Depuis le début du siècle, elle est en train de perdre la mère, par-  tie ~-mvent par nécessité mais parfois volontairement, Il convient donc d'orienter l'effort en matière  da .on vers une valorisation du rôle de la femme qui lui permette de se réaliser, qui ne la dénature  pas, qui ne l'empêche pas de remplir son rôle, afin qu'elle soit respectée dans sa réalité de femme et non  par l'effet d'une comparaison fallacieuse avec l'homme,
(15,19) Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, le Plan à moyen terme qui a été soumis à notre  attention et dont j'ai mentionne plusieurs éléments - quelques-uns seulement, en raison du délai imparti -  pourrait être l'outil approprié pour accomplir ce "retour A l'essentiel", malgré les conditionnements qui  semblent parfois l'affaiblir,
(15,20) Souhaitons que cette session contribue à nous rassembler autour des valeurs essentielles et  qu'une fois rentrés dans nos pays, nous constations qu'elle a été porteuse d'action et de vérité. Car la  vérité a plus de valeur que l'efficacité et le succès.
(15,21) Ce qui importe c'est que les jeunes, garçons ou filles, ne se laissent pas séduire par les solu-  tions les plus faciles : celles de la frivolité ou du pessimisme qui, par les voies de l'insouciance ou du  conformisme, les conduisent à la médiorrité, ou les poussent par désespoir à rechercher la vérité dans  les extrêmes au lieu de la trouver en eux-mêmes en sachant transcender ces extrêmes. Puissent cette  session et ces réflexions faire vibrer en nous la belle question que posait Rabindranath Tagore :  Existe-t-il dans cette ville une maison,  Dont la porte se soit ouverte ce matin,  A tout jamais,  Au soleil de l'aurore,  Où se soit accompli le message de la lumière ?  Fleurs ouvertes des haies et des jardins  Existe-t-il un coeur qui ait rencontré ce matin,  En vous, le don qui était en route  Depuis l'aube des temps ?  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président,
16. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Argentina. I give the floor to H.E. Mrs Fausta  Morganti Rossini, Minister of Education and Culture, Head of the Delegation of San Marino.
17,1 Mme MORGANTI ROSSINI (Saint-Marin). -  Monsieur le Président, au nom de la délégation de Saint-Marin, je tiens a vous féliciter  de votre élection à la présidence de cette Conférence ; comme à la Conférence de Belgrade,  nous souhaitons à cette assemblée d'aboutir aux meilleurs résultats possibles,
17,2 Je désire aussi rernercier le Directeur général et lui dire, ainsi qu'au Secrétariat, com-  bien nous sommes satisfaits de l'intense travail accompli pour élaborer le Projet de plan à  moyen terme,
17.3 A notre avis, cette Conférence représente une étape importante sur la voie suivie par  l'Unesco, car elle nous permet de concentrer notre attention sur les grands problèmes qui do-  minent notre époque et dont la solution est devenue désormais un but essentiel à atteindre,
17,4 Dans cette discussion sur le Projet de plan à moyen terme, par la précision des objectifs  définis et par la méthode de programmation de l'emploi des ressources financières, scienti-  fiques et humaines qu'elle propose, l'Unesco nous invite à nous interroger sur les processus  de développement économique, social et culturel de nos Etats, dans une perspective d'enrichis-  sement des valeurs authentiques de nos propres identités nationales.
17.5 La République de Saint-Marin, en tant qu'Etat appartenant à l'Europe «. a la région médi-  terranéenne, si riche de potentiel pour l'avenir de l'humanité mais certainement pas à l'abri  des risques qui menacent la planète, considère son existence comme étroitement liée à la situa-
6   tion internationale. L'attention que nous portons aux thèmes abordés par le Directeur général ne  saurait donc être de pure forme, et notre adhésion aux buts de l'Unesco nous inc'*~ à réfléchir  constamment à la cohérence de nos actions politiques et à notre capacité de relie. »>tre dévelop-  pement interne à l'évolution mondiale,
17,6 Nous croyons donc qu'il revient à l'Unesco d'impulser le débat et de faire des propositions  et nous pensons qu'il est essentiel que les actions de l'Unesco soient coordonnées si l'on veut  qu'elles contribuent à la réalisation des objectifs fondamentaux de l'humanité,
17.7 Le premier objectif est celui de la paix qui est devenue aujourd'hui l'exigence commune  des peuples devant le danger toujours présent de conflits plus ou moins étendus dans les diffé -  rentes régions du monde, devant la menace d'anéantissement,
17,8 L'engagement de Saint-Marin vis-à-vis de l'Unesco s'est concrétisé ces dernières années  par une série d'initiatives prises avec le soutien de l'Unesco, C'est ainsi qu'a été organisé ré-  cemment le Colloque international d'experts sur les droits de solidarité et les droits de peuples,  à la suite d'une proposition présentée à Belgrade qui avait recueilli un accord général.
17.9 Le thème des droits des peuples retient toute notre attention aux niveaux théorique et pra -  tique, Au niveau théorique, afin de mieux élucider les rapports existant entre liberté, droits  individuels et institutions, de même que leur interdépendance avec la situation économique, cul-  turelle et internationale, Au niveau pratique, afin que le droit de chaque peuple à l'autodétermi-  nation non seulement dans le domaine politique mais aussi dans celui du développement écono-  mique et scientifique puisse devenir le fondement d'une identité nationale comme celle sur laquelle  reposent la dignité et la séculaire autonomie de notre petite République.
17.10 Ces dernières années, la logique de l'abus de position dominante régit de plus en plus le  fonctionnement des grands systèmes de pouvoir du monde industrialisé, ce qui a gravement com-  promis la stabilité internationale et conduit à la répression des droits à la liberté et à l'auto-  détermination : toute revendication de justice est étouffée ou déformée, toute révolution qui essaie  de s'écarter de la logique préétablie des systèmes politiques est assiégée et encerclée,
17,11 Au moment où le Projet de plan à moyen terme est en discussion, nous voulons insister  sur ce point parce que nous croyons que savoir cela est indispensable à la compréhension et à la  coopération internationales dans les domaines de la culture, de l'éducation, de la science et du  progrès humain,
17.12 Le lien étroit qui existe entre les peuples, entre la liberté ou l'oppression de tel ou tel  peuple et le choix de système de pouvoir de tel ou tel autre, est désormais reconnu.
17,13 L'interdépendance des économies et des cultures s'est affirmée à l'échelle mondiale,  Elles sont devenues les éléments d'une mosaïque où chaque changement, chaque vibration se  répercute, et au sein de laquelle il est possible d'identifier des parties différentes, voire op-  posées, mais appartenant néanmoins au même système : pays riches et pays pauvres, monde  industrialisé et sous-développement, cultures occidentales et cultures des pays neufs,
17.14 Du point de vue historique, le grand cycle de l'Etat-nation paraît achevé, même si le  nationalisme subsiste et se manifeste encore avec force, alimentant comme par le passé des  processus régressifs qui aboutissent à la guerre, Toutefois, dans une logique différente, ce  même nationalisme pourrait au contraire se transmuer en renforcement de l'identité de chaque  peuple, devenir une conscience culturelle qui s'enrichit au contact des autres peuples et des  autres cultures,
17.15 Les processus politico-institutionnels sont en retard par rapport à l'exigence réelle,  depuis longtemps apparue, de la mondialisation, mais là n'est pas la seule contradiction de nos  sociétés,
17.16 Nous devons donc centrer toute notre attention sur un phénomène très important et très  actuel : le processus qui tend à une unification culturelle grandissante du genre humain, phéno-  mène sans précédent dont les modalités et les contenus demandent à être élucidés,
17.17 Nous souhaitons que les obstacles politiques qui s'opposent à cette évolution soient ¢li-  minés, mais nous ne pouvons pas nous arrêter à cela, Nous devons aussi nous demander si  l'affirmation, partout dans le monde, des mêmes modèles et valeurs et de la même conception
172   de la vie, apporte un début de solution aux problèmes de notre époque ou bien constitue plutôt 6  une perte de richesse humaine, Par l'emploi unilatéral des énergies qu'elle suppose, elle me-  nace la créativité dans ses bases, car celle-ci, dans l'histoire, s'est toujours affirmée a travers  la variété des cultures, la libre circulation des idées plutôt qu'à travers l'hégémonie d'un modèle,
17,18 Seule la mise en valeur d'une pluralité d'histoires et de cultures permettra d'utiliser à  plein, et dans un sens dynamique, les grandes possibilités du progrès technologique qui ne  peuvent aujourd'hui venir s'inscrire que dans une perspective de développement de l'humanité  tout entière. S'ouvrir à ces possibilités qui ne peuvent s'épanouir que dans un contexte de sta-  bilisation politique signifierait valoriser au maximum, au niveau de la culture et de la connais-  sance, toute réalité historique déjà existante ou en voie de formation qui enrichit et diversifie  un panorama mondial qui se borne trop souvent à rendre compte de ce que font, à l'intérieur et  à l'extérieur, les grandes puissances, Cela empêche tout apport nouveau et substantiel à la  recherche dans les domaines culturel, scientifique et, de façon encore plus marquée, dans celui  de l'éducation,
17,19 C'est pourquoi nous croyons que le Projet de plan à moyen terme, dans l'articulation de  ses analyses et de ses propositions, nous offre la possibilité de dégager une contre-tendance, la  seule, aujourd'hui, qui nous donne les moyens d'entreprendre une réflexion commune sur laquelle  les Etats que nous représentons puissent appuyer leurs efforts, dans l'action politique qu'ils  mènent à tous les niveaux,
17.20 Aussi la République de Saint-Marin se sent-elle tenue de poursuivre ses recherches daus  cette direction et nous souhaitons que cette assemblée leur accorde toute l'attention qu'elles mé-  ritent, Merci, Monsieur le Président.
18. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Head of the Delegation of San Marino. I give the floor to H.E. Mr Humald Bin  Nasser Al Owais, Minister of Water and Electricity, Head of the Delegation of the United Arab  Emirates.  (Booed) an yall wl lod) Grose)! ood 19)  av 35] Ele (551 due pladl oad swt ginal Gta I pet Some]! 0 jesBaldl pent, ddl  no oy GA 19S od Lot] Godl do Il ead GRAIN 550 Lan oe asl ol sds V0 NS Jesus  PURE ES PCPS SINE XCCUN | BE SURES | Rt) RUST RU PRUE Spa FEU 5 WEN | Rp DU FRE TR ow |  à,pL5 Ug kb anjhal of V5) dwliell edn Joe sigan I sng 9 LS PS5 155001 jengadl 13a JI Load ody  bm el led go puls Joyal SJL pain Ÿ de, ddl ede ans of idm ail 9 co) 8 FLE  sda dl Balam dl 9 agi piste gd Il slash gps, Gly anim flash y jetBadl 1am gent Soul] dasa ll  cl Jad 59 habia] el 515 AAs anse 175 SP UP odie Le Gls cheb aL Sly pln J  ed Sze l Jaden I att, (STE BBA AIN pee Fee Guess pd asl ge pid Glee ert pd andl 90  aha olasy pladl andl of VV GAY J2¥ dha ge Bhat Slasl ans Letps Lies NI gS dalla!  JlaSiwl 5 adnludl oo laadt Go asl 9 Ie¥1 GRAIN GS aid! obl se Wl a5 35 119A — VASE Jaÿl db gue  cba ansotl bobäiH Ados 5 edad eMSiell Judas ole GJs¥ Ga 50 JL 5S, a8 dled dha SNA  Je gSusgtl hehe sendin oi Sen Lo Sydas y 6 wMSEedl 6 Gan SY) col JT gles GN aslo  pi ds olans¥l G5 Boliy [3405 Lasbby 895 Lalhel ab abil) aad] pd] 13e gl + wlSSell oun  a ala 9 évelue)l 9 debated] col gad Gls SIL, sha tlaldl SSI wlSae ll 5 slog ul pl  +1 edly ebiall IS pe w¥Stedl 030 Ja Jl Gays Gidl Seed] aioany Geely as guy dl 9 dsLES  Lp joo! idl ela gnll ae dlelineg mS a> JI 3550 ge dhiJ! ode wf la a8), + Losesas dl KR CON |  Ign Ld ds (gl 9 Lets cain ol ondl ao lladl 9 1100 pl, Sl EI cages SI pels oS plaldi ashe!  «abil an go Jeodl Leadon Gud Goal Gades ÉOLSol 9 dan )N
173   pl Leg adladl sal G5 VS loll pas of Les lo go 800138 01 go 9 el ob go wlboall 5  chao, BSN ae lan 3!  als &LoLEH deenndl plie ob dnl of Les dios ¥ Gad Lo a ÏN eo pet SN Game 19,8  YL ts edad casts oa glad! dpens Ji Bled 0 As Lans Ÿ) 9 Au ll 5 Rola) Looe  en pad Jal ey + Gdbiadl Jae pad led Lads Lago dyn dl desl Gog 558 ple ol pedis  Ll pd ge BILIW 9 Le Bland) gSuvy Jl debe, Jase opadasdl py Gull 5,0 55 wjole Lada gs  IV[EPES TUNA By PCTRMFCIRE PAPE RECON | I Se rt IT I SPR i ER Ba Gps Fi T= TES  ell oY) ada sal Ledde Gull geal] adind 008 9 + NAVA ple ui lad) ea) Bulan ads  Oo JS5 pladl Le any pS gudl Aline GH Liat 9 Sale pada of YI Laan dys Bassadl a yall  choles) Lebo olas God] ENST) Ja oF paluss pole  Oo 98 aod) 9x0 LS hn y Slow 155 pads JST petal DATI ge ddl GLS PSN 6 pet dl SAIT 190  SN ping AUS PAIE Geist ÉLSLEIN Gn get ânonl de 2555 Lob GILESSI Glas 1559 + dailss pal  é&—Jys oo Lily lan + poil Ge Baan gee Flic Jaf ge cls LEU y wl pant deel ley ets gon  le Bliss 5 gail go SI glaadl 9 Hlac¥l Gods falas. Lawl, Lilost Gof daniel de pell wl lal  BLEU Yow pluël, wlliy sprl y ui laaldl Sy ans) SLES lf od Ji Jase oF da EN joan elslinl  dhol) 13e Gey «G3 pall ÉVLLEH Lidtog Lueusy Litalae po pole Tang ICUS EN J I SRC | BY 00 CS  Gila 6 Ji Got LT Lai 51 wpe 9 Belay 0 GLS Lans] Gael] aan) Jusal ass oon Les  coral JUBH coded Gras LeS  ge Gad Lal 9 (55 LE GI ed yn Goloay pol de go € lind G3 Gas Le gl 6 pet pd awd) 390  Le Sul dl oleadl 5 piladl Glad ull gs glols 15571 ILE jas Lol 2 adS allel pase  aa ll) ALES dn gedl grab Jaf ge oS 5 1 pet dl Gane cpt] GATE san gl 0 edt sg) call se  dy 59 Ball poil Goll 507 abla Tang + AUS 7 gl wld) SOLE dng Jl geeb Mel dan Lal  eal) GT säs + adey Manly | yasse ui plied GF waa Le Si LS ssbb lac!  cpdladl go, ols Glas plat pla) Lad, lutd) Gadad Lipo gataedl ary gi Ging Joie of Gedladl  Joliifl po LaslS 1455 yasfhadl LS Landy seal S31 2 gedl po dod So yanse € sb | pan WV aE  pladl Jee G9 751 ley lelanal Lots tof Gull wll Glalonl) bly 5,50 pun God! CLÉ Lon I 9  Le po Gl elgmall y Got gall 5 el paced! pal pind) Han eds aS < BSLELN 5 Bully Loe pd yasadl  A Shy Lesbiby Laban JSS Jlaadl Van qi said! Lae oo le jenball pllb) Gls Lio Lo»  + Lynch g (5 SH aa TLo SE IS LOST Span 5 desl)! Jal go allay (dally dw! 5 JT Go Sao  JL eYl y polly dm ul 9 5 9 9 GLEN AL Le 59 pdt 5 deat, pos Lands yt pet 51 Sad 1q A  Lsôl 9 tla [ke JS) + poïnatl Gating diol plosotl g l ull y aeslindl doped] Gls dbstoadly pled,  a paës Le de 0 y$t5 Lol + Julldl ayn 85 ob La sey badly olS pladl oaedl acwdly shall GÉ  clesl asl 75 pale ge JS Sau, Lda T 50 pana Gal BA ad) apd ge  a staal Godan dl gas 138 Jar of damsel dn edt wl jledl ads Jel 4 gent dl andl 1g 4  coed ol 1,885 + AS ndedl Godly CUITE FL GUST GE ous oT dal abo
(19.1) M. AL OWAIS (Emirats arabes unis), - (Traduit de l'arabe, )  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais tout d'abord dire combien je suis heureux de  l'occasion qui m'est donnée par mon collègue et ami Safd Salman, ministre de l'éducation des Emirats  arabes unis, de conduire à sa place la délégation de notre pays à cette importante Conférence, Il n'aurait  certes pas voulu manquer pareil événement, si d'impérieuses nécessités ne l'avaient retenu, Je tiens  à remercier vivement, au nom de mon gouvernement, le Président de cette Conférence, les membres du  Bureau, le Président et les membres du Conseil exécutif, le Directeur général et les membres du Secré-  tariat, des efforts qu'ils déploient pour assurer l'application des décisions de l'Organisation et l'exécu-  tion de ses activités, :
(19.2) Monsieur le Président, la méthode de planification fondée sur l'analyse des grands problèmes  mondiaux n'a été appliquée que de manière partielle lors de l'élaboration du premier Plan à moyen terme.  Dans la préparation du deuxième Plan (1984-1989), en revanche, on a pu mettre à profit l'expérience  acquise et corriger les défauts du plan précédent. Le processus de planification adopté a pour axe princi-  pal l'analyse des problèmes mondiaux, y compris de leurs aspects rérionaux, ainsi que la détermination  de la contribution que l'Unesco peut apporter à leur solution, Cette approche nouvelle imprime au Plan  une vigueur et une marque nouvelles, notamment parce qu'elle repose sur une appréciation réaliste des  situations et des grands problèmes mondiaux, qui sont examinés sous leurs aspects sociaux, politiques,  scientifiques, culturels, éducatifs et informationnels, De même les objectifs que l'Organisation doit pour-  suivre pour contribuer à leur solution sont définis, ainsi que les programmes spécifiques qu'elle doit  adopter. Les directives données par la Conférence générale de Belgrade dans la résolution 100 ont été lar-  gement suivies et dans le Plan et dans les projets élaborés à partir de ses dispositions pour en assurer  l'exécution et garantir la réalisation des objectifs qu'à travers lui se proposent d'atteindre les Etats.
(19,3) Monsieur le Président, comme on le sait, mon pays est situé dans la région du Golfe ; nous  sommes donc des gens de la mer, Aussi voudrais-je attirer l'attention sur l'Assemblée de la Commission  océanographique intergouvernementale, qui s'est tenue récemment au Siège de l'Unesco et s'est achevée  le 20 novembre. En tant que membre de la Commission, nous avons participé à cette Assemblée et pris  connaissance de ges résolutions finales, que nous approuvons, Nous souhaitons que l'Unesco apporte tout  son appui à cette Commission, car les mers et les océans recelent des richesses et des ressources nutri-  tives qui peuvent grandement contribuer au bien-etre de l'humanité ct combler le déficit alimentaire dont  souffre la planète,
(19.4) Monsieur le Président, l'éducation, nul ne le conteste, est la clé du plein développement écono-  mique, politique et social, comme de l'épanouissement individuel, Nousne saurions donc trop insister sur  l'importance qu'elle revêt, C'est ce qui a poussé notre Ministère de l'éducation à demander à bénéficier  de l'aide et de la vaste expérience de l'Unesco pour entreprendre une rénovation complète de l'éducation  dans les Emirats arabes unis, En conséquence, un accord a été signé en 1979, Nous saluons ici le travail  accompli par les experts mis au service de notre pays ; nous nous devons d'exprimer nos remerciements  et notre reconnaissance à l'Unesco et à son Directeur général, ainsi qu’à tous ceux qui ont contribué et  contribuent encore à résoudre les problèmes auxquels l'humanité est confrontée,
(19,5) Monsieur le Président, si la paix est la condition sine qua non de tout progrès dans le domaine de  l'éducation, l'alphabétisation en est un des principaux fondements, Dans le domaine de la culture, nous  voudrions insister sur l'importance de l'identité culturelle et de l'épanouissement ‘e la personnalité et  sur la nécessité d'encourager le dialogue entre les cultures ; d'où l'intérêt des séminaires et des rencontres  qui permettent de tisser des relations nouvelles entre les nations, Nous sommes profondément attachés  aux principes des droits de l'homme et de l'égalité entre les peuples ; nous pensons qu'il faut préserver  toutes les cultures et améliorer l'éducation pour assurer la transmission du patrimoine cultur 'l et le re-  nouvellement des connaissances et des valeurs, Aussi faisons-nous une large place à l'éducation morale,  fondée sur nos principes, nos valeurs et les idéaux auxquels nous sommes depuis toujours fidèles, Nous  condamnons par conséquent toutes les formes de discrimination raciale, où que ce soit, particulièrement  en Afrique du Sud et dans les territoires arabes occupés, de m@me que nous condamnons toute forme de  génocide,
(19,6) Monsieur le Présid nt, les massacres perpétrés contre les peuples libanais et palestinien, au vu  et au su du monde entier, ont ému le monde libre qui a condamné l'agression brutale et la tuerie dont  Israël s'est rendu coupable contre un peuple innocent et paisible, Ces crimes, Monsieur le Président, sont  commis dans le but d'étouffer l'identité culturelle du peuple palestinien et, par-delà, celle du peuple arabe  tout entier, en violation de la Charte des Nations Unies et de la Charte internationale des droits de l'homme,  Messieurs les délégués, chacun se souvient de ce qui s'est passé au Liban, dans les camps de Sabra et  Chatila, Il est temps que l'opinion mondiale réagisse et se dresse contre l'agresseur, pour défendre les  droits de l'homme et faire flotter la bannière de la paix sur l'ensemble de la planète,
(19.7) Monsieur le Président, on trouvera dans le rapport succinct présenté par notre pays à cette Con-  férence un certain nombre de données et de statistiques qui permettent d'avoir une idée claire des options  fondamentales de notre pays, notamment dans les domaines de la science et de la technologie, de l'éduca-  tion et de la culture, Ce rapport résume nos réalisations, nos échecs et les difficultés auxquelles nous  sorames confrontés. Nous avons voulu soumettre à la Conférence le bilan de notre jeune expérience dans  ces domaines, en en signalant les aspects positifs aussi bien que négatifs avec le maximum d'objectivité  et de précision, afin de contribuer à la définition des grands problèmes mondiaux,
(19.8) Monsieur le Président, le développement, la paix, la jeunesse, la recherche, l'éducation, la  science, la communication, l'information, la préservation de l'identité culturelle et du patrimoine, la  protection de l'environnement et le développement social sont autant de questions qui intéressent mon  pays et qui sont toutes traitées avec clarté et dans le Plan et dans le rapport fort complet du Directeur  général, Nous tenons à remercier ce dernier pour les explications qu'il a fournies à propos du Plan,  objet de notre réunion et nous remercions aussi tous ceux qui ont participé à son élaboration,
(19.9) Monsieur le Président, les Emirats arabes unis souhaitent à la Conférence d'atteindre ses objec-  tifs, pour que l'humanité puisse espérer accéder au bien-être, à la paix et à la sécurité collective, Je  vous remercie, Monsieur le Président,
175   (Mr Majeed Khan, Bangladesh, took the Chair)
20. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Head of the Delegation of the United Arab Emirates. I give the floor to the  Hon. Billie A. Miller, Minister of Education, Head of the Delegation of Barbados.
21.1 Miss MILLER (Barbados)  Mr President, permit me first of all to extend a warm welcome to two sister states from the  Caribbean, Antigua and Barbuda and the Bahamas, to membership of this distinguished Organ-  jzation. This event, which has passed almost unnoticed, is of great significance, not only for the  Caribbean itself but for Unesco as well. It is a matter of regret, Mr President, that it was nct  even considered worthy enough for the Journal. The English-speaking Caribbean countries, which  now number eleven, bring to this Organization the special attributes and contribution of a dis-  crete group within the Latin America and Caribbean region.
21.2 The greater majority of these states are island developing economies, with problems such as  limited natural resources, high population densities, small scale, and varying degrees of literacy  and development.
21.3 It is ironic that despite our geographic proximity to Latin America, with which we share  many common features, we have as a result of historic ties been exposed to the influences of the  North American continent. We have imported from our northern neighbours a style of living which  our economies cannot support.
21.4 It is against this background, Mr President, that we have approached the Draft Medium-  Term Plan for 1984-1989.
21.5 Unesco's Second Medium-Term Plan, which will take us up to the end of the 1980s, comes at  a time when the world is experiencing diverse problems of recession, inflation, racism, violations  of human rights, the inequitable distribution of food, energy problems and poverty. These, to-  gether with the continuing degradation of the environment, the over-use of renewable and non-  renewable resources, and growing protectionism, constitute major problems which--unless they are  urgently addressed--will threaten democracy and peace and inevitably lead to a breakdown in  society.
21.6 Indeed, all of these problems are recognized in the First Part of the Draft Plan, which  emphasizes most forcibly the need for the international community to combine its resources and  embark on a sustained programme aimed at achieving a greater equilibrium in the distribution of  the world's wealth, so that developing countries in particular may realize their full potential.
21,7 Mr President, Unesco has an active role to play in all this. Within its field of competence,  the Organization should not only seek to promote research activities and the dissemination of  information, but must also pursue action-oriented programmes which will assist Member States in  general and the English-speaking Caribbean in particular in strengthening national and regional  institutions. In the case of the Caribbean, agencies such as CARICOM, the Caribbean Develop-  ment and Co-ordinating Committee, the Caribbean Broadcasting Union and the regional universities  readily come to mind as institutions which could be involved i. this collaborative process. Unesco  must also see as part of its role the identification and mobilization of additional financial resources  for projects which cannot be accommodated within its regular budget.
21.8 The importance of this activity cannot be overstated, especially in the case of a country  like Barbados--and there are others--which is categorized by the international financial community  as a so-called 'middle-income' country and is thereby barred from access to funds at reasonable  terms. My country has in many forums reiterated its concern about the inadequacy of per capita  income as a measure for determining the need for continued access to assistance on concessional  terms.
21.9 This concern could bear repeating in this forum. It must be recognized that there are many  countries which, because of size, limited resources and other constraints, will continue to require  aid from the developed countries in order to sustain the relative growth they have so far managed  to achieve. To penalize them for such growth would be to halt their momentum, and I need not  stress here the ripple effect that is inevitable in the light of the interrelatedness of our eco-  nomies in the Caribbean in particular, and of the fact of interdependence as a whole.
21.10 Barbados also supports the view that the Organization should continue to strengthen re-  gional and technical co-operation among developing countries in the implementation of Major Pro-  grammes II, IV, V and VI.
21.11 To return more specifically to the Draft Medium-Term Plan, the priority areas in the field  of education lie in re-examination of educational systems at both the national and regional levels.  The countries of the region are all committed to the idea that the educational system must play a  far greater role in equipping our societies with the knowledge, skills, attitudes and cultural en-  vironment which will respond to the new demands of the technological age. The right of access to
176   education as one of the fundamental human rights, and the elimination of illiteracy, have been  recognized as areas requiring highest priority in the context of the democratization of education  and the right to education.
21.12 The objectives of the Major Project in the field of education in Latin America and the  Caribbean are accommodated in the Draft Mecium-Term Plan. In this connection, Mr President, I  would wish to draw attention to the resolution adopted by the Ministers of Education of the  English-speaking Caribbean, which calls on Unesco to continue to give support to the Major Pro-  ject and to provide the Caribbean Network of Educational Innovation for Development (CARNEID)  with the necessary resources to enable it to carry out activities relevant to the objectives of the  Major Project. Our countries are fully committed to the development of this network which,  because of its location in Barbados, can easily respond to the needs of the majority of the  participating states.
21.13 Barbados considers Major Programmes II, IV and V as being complementary in nature, and  my delegation wishes to give its full support to the lines of emphasis particularly in relation to  the programmes concerning: co-ordination between formal and non-formal education; the relation-  ship between education and work; renewal of educational structures, contents, methods and tech-  niques; lifelong education; furthering of early childhood education; and expansion of the role of  technical and vocational education.
21.14 Barbados recognizes that increased use of technology has the potential to improve the  quality and relevance of education. For these reasons, it is considered that distance education,  through educational television programmes, could effectively enhance the content and expansion of  education both as a tool in the formal education system and through adult education programmes.
21.15 Mr President, my delegation feels strongly that support should be given to the strcss  placed on mastery of science and technology as being essential for the processes of national  advancement.
21.16 In Barbados and the Caribbean, governments in their national science policies are now  attaching great importance to creating the requisite domesti. conditions for scientific development  and its subsequent promotion. The newly formed Caribbean Council on Science and Technology  has a mandate for supporting these policies. However, Unesco over the next decade should con-  centrate on assisting in the examination of specific problems which seem capable of solution within  a relatively short time frame. This appears to be consonant with the proposals contained in Major  Programme IX, and particularly the activities envisaged under Programme IX.2. It is noted that  the allocation of the budget to this activity is at a low level of about 3.3 per cent, and it is  hoped that this is not intended to indicate that it will receive low priority by the Secretariat.
21.17 Barbados supports the lines of emphasis of Major Programme X on 'The human environme:  and terrestrial and marine resources' which, as its title indicates, is interdisciplinary in nature.  Of particular interest is Programme X.9 on environmental education and information, with its three  subprogrammes on: the production and dissemination of scientific information on the environment;  the development of general environmental education; and the promotion of awareness of environ-  mental problems in vocational training. In the Caribbean, the three campuses of the University of  the West Indies are currently examining ways of introducing studies in the broad environmental  field, and Unesco may very well be approached for assistance in this area.
21.18 Mr President, it is increasingly recognized that the strengthening of national identity  through culture is a prerequisite for social and economic progress. We certainly support the view  expressed in the Plan that 'the survival of a culture depends on its adaptability, that is to say  its ability to integrate and assimilate new inputs, whether of endogenous or exogenous origin--  while retaining its natural balance and its individual personality’. In the Caribbean, where nearly  all the countries have recently emerged from colonialism, governments have recognized that it is  essential that the importance of cultural development be not lost in the pursuit of economic  well-being.
21,19 The four programmes dealing with the preservation and presentation of the cultural heri-  tage, the promotion of cultural identity and intercultural relations, creation and creativity, and  cultural development have much relevance for the Caribbean and are consistent with the principles  set forth in the Mexico City Declaration.
21.20 Mr President, another important activity which is apparently not directly addressed in the  Draft Plan is that pertaining to population dynamics--a matter which in my view is critical to the  entire question of development in the areas of Unesco's mandate. Population activities are a sig-  nificant element of many of the major world problems; and high, or indeed low, growth rates have  serious implications for socio-economic development. It is essential that Unesco design effective  programmes in population education to assist member countries in tackling this area of immediate  global concern.
21.21 Any programmes aimed at the elimination of prejudice, intolerance, racism and apartheid  and the promotion of peace, international understanding, the freedom of the peoples and human  rights would receive the active support of Barbados.
21.22 Barbados lauds Unesco's suggestions to work closely with governmental and non-  governmental women's organizations and with the institutions set up at the national, regional and  international levels,
21.23 Mr President, this extraordinary session of the General Conference also has on its agenda  the related questions of the future presentation of the UC/5 documents and methods of work of the  General Conference. The Government of Barbados has already communicated its views on both  matters and there is therefore no need for me to elaborate on them further here.
21.24 Nevertheless, I consider it necessary to reiterate one aspect of our comments.  Mr President, the costs of participation in international conferences such as this constitute a  severe drain on the limited resources of developing countries. Many of these countries new find it  difficult to attend, and, if they do, are forced to depart before the end of the Conferen z or to  reduce their level of representation to the print where it is hardly effective.
21.25 My delegation therefore considers that the General Conference should not exceed three  weeks. We have taken the salutary step at this meeting of imposing a time-limit on our contri-  butions to the general debate, and I am convinced that this has not adversely affected the quality  or value of these cortributions. Let us not lose sight of the fact that time is indeed our most  precious commodity.
21.26 Mr President, in closing I wish to state that I find the Draft Medium-Term Plan for 1984-
1989 to be a unified and well-organized document which not only follows closely the indicators of
21 C/Resolution 100, adopted at the twenty-first session of the General Conference, but also goes  far towards meeting the concerns of the majority of Member States.
21.27 Let us hope that the spirit of consensus which has always characterized our decisions in  the past will also result in the adoption of the Draft Medium-Term Plan at this Conference, thus  paving the way for another major step in the direction of realizing Unesco's goals of mutual under-  standing among peoples, co-operation among nations and the achievement of global peace which we  so fervently seek.
21.28 Thank you, Mr President.
22, The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the Head of the Delegation of Barbados. 1 give the floor to Mr Silvester Ugoh,  Honourable Minister for Education, Head of the Delegation of Nigeria.
23.1 Mr UGOH (Nigeria):  Mr President, 1 should like through you, Mr President, to join with previous speakers in  congratulating Mr Margan on his re-election as President of this fourth extraordinary session of  the General Conference. His experience in successfully guiding the work of the twenty-first  session of the General Conference in Belgrade will be valuable to him in piloting the deliberations  of this fourth extraordinary session devoted essentially to consideration of the Second Draft  Medium-Term Plan, which is to be a frame of reference for the work of our great Organization for  the period 1984-1989,
23.2 Permit me, Mr President, to convey to this august assembly the warm and personal felici-  tations and fraternal greetings of His Excellency Alhaji Shehu Shagari, the First Executive  President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as well as the best wishes of the peoples of Nigeria  as a whole.
23.3 It is my honour and privilege, on behalf of the delegation of Nigeria, to greet all the other  distinguished delegates to this Conference and to thank them for re-electing me as one of the Vice-  Presidents of the Conference. We are indeed glad to be able to participate in the consideration of  the 1984-1989 Medium-Term Plan.
23.4 The document itself has had a fairly long history. Beginning in 1980, when the twenty-first  General Conference adopted its resolution 100 on its preparation, through the massive consul-  tations of Member States, National Commissions, international governmental and non-governmental  organizations and the successive meetings of the Executive Board since its 112th session, and cul-  minating in its submission to this august assembly, it has indeed undergone the necessary process  of academic refinement and maturation enabling us to consider and adopt it at the present  session. Viewed as a whole, one could say that the document takes account of the requirements of  the General Conference at its twenty-first session and of the replies of Member States, National  Commissions and of international governmental and non-governmental organizations, 1 therefore  commend the untiring efforts of the Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, and members of  his Secretariat for the systematic work of synthesis which they have done. 1 also note, with a  great deal of satisfaction, the excellent attempt made to concentrate the programmes by limiting  them to thirteen major programmes only without losing sight of either the global needs of Member  States or the directives of the General Conference and the Executive Board. A closer study of  the programmes reveals a great deal of intersectorality and interdisciplinarity of approach, both  of which are indispensable to the solution of the problems affecting the majority of Member States.
23.5 The Plan has three broad components: an analaysis of world problems; thirteen major  programmes plus two chapters on the status of women and programme support; and an appendix  on resource indications. Since other members of my delegation will deal with the details of the  Plan in Commissions 1 and 11, 1 shall confine myself to the four main topics assigned to the  plenary meeting.
23.6 Major Programme 1, 'Reflections on world problems and future-oriented studies', consists of  a strategy of action and two subprogrammes which are welcomed by my delegation. The definition  of world problems contained therein is neither exhaustive nor definitive. The analysis of them is  an ongoing process which will be affected by changing circumstances and by time and place.  Every day opens a new vista in the march of human civilization and, with each new chapter that  opens, we are faced with a new challenge to our human capacity for receptivity and change.  Since we acknowledge the changing nature of these problems, both as regards their substance  and their scope, it is important that we make their study a permanent feature of our programme.  Besides, Unesco as the intellectual warehouse of the United Nations system should make available  to Member States and other United Nations Specialized Agencies its reflections, research findings  and the conclusions of conferences and meetings with a view to contributing to the solutions of  their individual problems in its fields of competence.
23.7 Of the many problems besetting the world, there is none, Mr President, which lends itself  to easy solution by any one nation acting alone. Each problem is of such magnitude that it  requires the concerted efforts of the entire international community to find a lasting solution to  it. ls it possible, for example, to imagine the harmonious growth of one half of the world without  any thought being given to the other half languishing in poverty? Is there really hope for the  solid and lasting recovery of the developed economies without the help of new markets and new  partners with whom to co-operate, trade and communicate on a basis of sovereign equality? A  spirit of solidarity between the so-called developed and developing countries is, to my mind, the  key to the future and a necessity for the survival of humanity.
23.8 The peoples of developing countries do not have ready access to the means, personnel and  research centres to engage in the continuous process of reflection required to find solutions to so  many challenging problems. We therefore believe, Mr President, that the present programme will  be a fitting response to the yearnings of all those who look to Unesco for assistance in the intel-  lectual field.
23.9 I turn now to Major Programme VIII, 'Principles, methods and strategies of action for devel-  opment'. The present world economic crisis demonstrates unmistakably that underdevelopment is at  the root of much of our present malaise. While the technologically advanced countries are facing a  certain economic decline, the underdeveloped world is confronted with a crisis of choice regarding  its development model. One thing is very clear: the problem of one country is the problem of  another, because 'underdevelopment', which is at present the bane of the developing countries,  has tremendous repercussions on the so-called developed 'world'. Hence, it is my submission that  we need to find a common solution to the question of an alternative model of development, parti-  cularly in the light of recent findings “hat illiteracy, youth unemployment and violence, which are  symptoms of a decadent society in crisis, are no longer limited to the developing countries. The  social mark of development is something much more than material well-being. Human dignity is at  least as important an element of development as happiness, and dignity is meaningless except in  relation to those values which make life worth living. Culture is both the custodian and the  critic, the repository and the originator of the values in question. This cultural dimension en-  sures that man is made the agent as well as the true goal of development.
23.10 The international crisis in development is that of a system of unequal economic relations  between a few dominant countries and the majority of dominated ones. A broad agreement seems  however to be emerging on the need to seek a new international economic order bascd not only on  economic considerations, but also on ethical requirements consonant with the fundamental mission  of our Organization. In my view, Unesco's efforts to analyse development problems in collaboration  with Member States is the very least it should do to assist Member States in this area.
23.11 I come now to Major Programme XII, 'The elimination of prejudice, intolerance, racism and  apartheid'. The desire of all right-thinking people, Mr President, is for a world community {ree  of prejudice of any kind; and hence we believe that the greatest challenge facing mankind as we  approach the twenty-first century is the elimination of prejudice, intolerance, racism and  apartheid. lntolerance, racism and prejudice are all bad enough, but the worst is apartheid which  has continued to defy all the rules of civilized society, to impose obnoxious policies of repression,  torture and other forms of human degradation on the black people who constitute more than 70 per  cent of the population of South Africa. The practice of apartheid is a violation of the Charter of  the United Nations, the Unesco Constitution, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the  conscience of humanity. Nigeria, in concert with the five frontline states and other countries, will  continue to fight against the evils cf apartheid in all its ramifications both within the Organization  of African United and the United Nations. In this regard, Unesco should spare no efforts within  its fields of compctence until this cankerworm is eliminated in its entirety. The death of the  children of Soweto and other places, who fell because they claimed the right to learn in a langu-
6   age other than that of those who have made them outcasts in their own land, cannot but remind  us of the many daily infringements, in Africa and elsewhere, of the most elementary human  rights. The list of intellectuals, artists, writers and ordinary people who have been thrown into  prison, who have been forced into exile or who have disappeared into thin air, the victims of  intolerance and suppression, grows ever loi.ger. It is also pertinent to stress that the domination  of one people by another should be intolerable to this community. It is in any case contrary to all  the principles underlying the establishment of Unesco and which still govern the Organization's  activities. llence, we in Nigeria feel it the cardinal responsibility of Unesco to put its intellectual  weight behind all studies and research work designed to expose all the evils and consequences of  apartheid with a view to removing them. Major Programme XII, therefore, constitutes the least  that Unesco should do in the face of the injustices, cultural degradation and manifest brutality to  which a large part of the African continent and people are subjected through the practice of  apartheid.
23.12 With regard to Major Programme XIII, 'Peace, international understanding, the freedom of  the peoples and human rights', its title faithfully reflects the preamble to the Unesco Consti-  tution, part of which states--and I quote--that the wide diffusion of culture and the education of  humanity for justice and liberty and peace are indispensable to the dignity of man and constitute  a sacred duly which all the nations must fulfil in a spirit of mutual assistance and concern; that  peace based exclusively upon the political and economic arrangements of governments would not be  a peace which could secure the unanimous, lasting and sincere support of the peoples of the  world; and that the peace must therefore be founded, if it is not to fail, upon the intellectual  and moral solidarity of mankind. Unquote. The realization of this goal set forth more than  thirty-seven years ago is still a far cry. The world is daily faced with pockcts of crisis and  conflict which threaten peace and security everywhere. Peace and security are in the interest of  all and yet there is a minority who labour to ensure that the military machine is constantly  fuelled. It should be of interest to Unesco to analyse the causes and consequences of this  paradox with a view to informing the international community of the dangers it runs every day  from the annual investment of over $500 billion on the acquisition and stockpiling of weapons of  destruction. New arrangements offering adequate guarantees of peace and good-neighbourliness  should be made to ensure the security of states. One of the major obstacles to disarmament has  been the lack of political will, due to the fear and mistrust which rule the minds of men. More  campaigns should be mounted to mobilize public opinion in favour of peace; for, once there was a  durable peace, there would hardly be any need for armaments or the arms race.
23.13 In support of the programme, which in my estimation serves to promote self-determination  for those who, under one pretext or another, are still denied their human rights, one need do no  more than refer to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Charter of the United Nations  and the Charter of the Organization of African Unity. For greater peace and understanding and  the rights of individuals, peoples and nations are complementary to one another. Respect for the  dignity of man and the rights of peoples and nations call for greater international understanding  and solidarity. All actions indicated in Major Programme XIII are therefore welcomed by my  delegation.
23.14 In conclusion, Mr President, let me say briefly what we consider should be the continuing  role of Unesco in the world of today and of tomorrow. At the outset, Unesco had the modest task  of co-ordinating and facilitating co-operation among its founding Member States, with a view to  raising the standard of education, science and culture throughout the world. At that time, there  were about fifty Member States, whose sole preoccupation was the reconstruction of Europe.  Today with 158 Member States distributed all over the globe, and in the face of rather complex  and growing needs, Unesco has to combine reflection with action if it is to minister to the needs  of all its members who are at varying stages of development. Unesco, in my view, cannot rest  content with engaging in activities whose scope is deliberately limited. It is duty bound to be in  the vanguard of world thinking and to direct its work with reference to the values that its ethical  mission requires it to apply. Hence, Mr President, it is my belief that Unesco should effectively  contribute to the building of infrastructures, the creation and strengthening of endogenous  capacity for research and the promotion of scientific and technological development in the devel-  oping countries to enable them to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century.
23.15 And it is in this regard that I! wish to place on record Nigeria's unflinching support for  the mode and manner in which our indefatigable Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, has  been carrying out the onerous and thankless responsibilities that devolve on him as the intel-  lectual guide of this Organization. With these few remarks, Mr President, I wish the Conferene  success in its deliberations. Thank you.
24. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Nigeria. I give the floor to H.E. The Hon. Onofre D.  Corpuz, Minister of Education, Culture and Sports, Head of the Delegation of the Philippines.
25.1 Mr CORPUZ (Philippines):  Mr President, distinguished delegates, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the dele-  gation of the Philippines will vote for the adoption of the Draft Medium-Term Plan for the period
1984-1989, subject to the amendments to perfect it that the General Conference approves.
25.2 The concepts that governed the formulation of the Draft Plan, pursuant to the wise decision  of the General Conference, and the procedures followed in its preparation, admirably led by the  Director-General, have resulted in an enormous improvement in Unesco's definition of the mission  entrusted to it.
25.3 The analysis of world problems that constitutes the First Part of the Plan provides a clear  intellectual perspective of the problems that haunt and burden our lives, our lives. that are be-  coming increasingly similar every day. This intellectual perspective, which is intrinsic to Unesco's  nature, has had to be fashioned, woven and articulated because it is the only rational basis for  identifying the Organization's major programmes and subprogrammes. In the event, my delegation  observes that this rational procedure has resulted in some major programmes that have sharpened  the outlines of Unesco's role as the collective and organized conscience of mankind.
25.4 Now, Mr President, we have a few observations to present to the General Conference. The  first refers to the matter of evaluation, which is important for obvious reasons. Evaluation is  discussed in the Foreword to document 4 XC/4 (paragraphs 46-50) and in document 4 XC/7, and  it is stated, inter alia, that an evaluation plan will be drawn up for each major programme, the  purpose of which will be to define detailed, specific targets for each subprogramme. We submit  that it will be extremely difficult to apply this type of evaluation to some programmes and sub-  programmes. For example, it would be inadvisable to do so in the case of Major Programme I,  "Reflection on world problems and future-oriented studies', and the first subprogramme of Pro-  gramme XIII.1, 'Reflection on the factors contributing to peace'. How do we evaluate reflection?  By its quantity? Or its quality? And against what targets? 1 should therefore like to draw atten-  tion to this issue, particularly in the light of the Director-General's assurance that evaluation  activities will continue to be largely decentralized within the Secretariat. Indeed, if the Sec-  retariat were to participate prominently in the formulation of reflection activities, it would not be  altogether proper for it to engage in self-evaluation.
25.5 Next, Mr President, we wish to address the concept of the 'globalization' of human life.  There is, of course, abundant evidence of this trend in the form of information flows, commodity  flows, financial flows and movements of individuals. Perhaps it is natural for my delegation to be  concerned with the phenomenon of globalization, and I shall explain why. My country's con-  figuration blesses us with more than 7,000 islands, and it is inevitable, as well as linguistically  accurate to say, that many communities are isolated from these world flows. Indeed, isolation does  not proceed solely from geographical insularity, Not all isolated communities are surrounded by  the seas and oceans; there are 'islands' of people, poor and bereft of social services, surrounded  by the seas of technological and material progress in many big cities of the world.
25.6 Without denying the reality and increasing existence of globalization, whose manifestations  not only touch but are part of the lives of many people, we nevertheless submit that the great  world flows do not yet form part of the lives of millions of people. This constitutes another form  of disparity in our world, exactly of the same nature as the other inequalities that concern  Unesco. My delegation is aware that the concept of 'globalization' is not intended to ignore the  many cases of communities that are isolated from the great world flows. But we are obliged to  register the observation that while the increasing tempo of globalization proceeds the condition of  isolation persists.
25.7 We welcome the undertaking of an international future-oriented study. The established view  is that the present shapes the future, that tomorrow is shaped by what we are and do today.  There is truth in this common-sense notion, but there is in fact more to the future than this  simplistic idea. For example, it is impossible to paint a portrait of the future simply by projecting  or extrapolating the present. If it were so, the future would merely be a continuous reproduction  of the present, of poverty for millions, tensions gripping us all, disparities dividing us. We must  regard the future by definitions that embody our ideals and aspirations, our resolve to attain a  better life, in peace and in the unity of mankind. The point is that, if our view of the future  reflects our human ideals and aspirations, then this future will influence us, affect our decisions  and our actions today. Thus, Mr President, it can be said that our view of the future contributes  to the shaping of our present, that what we want to be and what we want to do tomorrow affects  our life today. Another aspect of the future, of course, is that there are many possible futures  in the future, precisely because human beings have free will and the capacity to choose, within  the context of their various cultural perspectives, their objective circumstances and their varied  visions of a better life.
25.8 Our next observation refers to Major Programme 111, 'Communication in the service of man’.  It is difficult to take exception to its presentation in the Draft Plan, because it appears to be  very proper, very correct. My delegation observes, nevertheless, that the language used in this  major programme has become very tame. It is technical rather than purposeful. Mention is made of  "better balanced dissemination of information' and of the ‘free flow of ideas and knowledge'. But  the text does not, in our opinion, reflect an earnest effort to examine freedom deeply. It is our  view that freedom alone, without equality, is not enough. The validity of this view was con-  clusively demonstrated over a long era of history, happily now past, when freedom coexisted with  human slavery, precisely because human freedom can never survive unless it is linked with
6   equality. Therefore, if we are to make communication serve mankind, we must purposefully safe-  guard the freedom of communication flows, but we must also resolutely strengthen that freedom,  which will inevitably be corrupted unless we bring about an increasing measure of equality.  Increasing equality in information flows and exchanges touches the essence of communication. Com-'  mu iication, in its essence, is based on a community of some sort between persons or peoples; com-  munication is impossible between two complete strangers--contact, yes, but communication, no.  Thus, efforts to increase reciprocity of information flows essentially are an expression of our  community and expand rather than threaten our intercommunication. '
25.9 We subscribe without reservation to Major Programme XII and, with a special sense of urgency,  to Programme XI1.3, 'The struggle against apartheid'. That there are human beings who are daily  oppressed by apartheid is tragedy enough. But, for us, those who suffer from the indignity of  racism are not the only victims. Those who impose apartheid on their fellow humans in fact un-  wittingly corrupt and brutalize themselves. Worse,.they will ineluctably transmit this corruption  and brutalization to their children, condemning them to an institutionalization of ignorance and  intolerance without allowing them the privilege of choice.
25.10 Mr President, it is neither necessary nor wise to comment on all parts of so comprehensive  a document as the Draft Medium-Term Plan. My delegation is profoundly impressed by the thoughtful  ideas and elevated sentiments expressed by the previous speakers. Doubtless the wealth of the  ideas and suggestions presented will improve a document which is in itself the product of much  reflection. When the time comes to formulate the biennial programme for 1984-1985, we are entitled  to expect that our implementing activities will reflect the co-operation and diligent work that  produced the landmark document that Unesco's Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989 will surely be.
25.11 It remains for us to acknowledge the excellent contributions made by the Director-General,  the Executive Board and especially the President of the General Conference to the efficient work-  ing of this session. Thank you, Mr President.
26. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the Head of the Delegation of the Philippines. 1 give the floor to H.E. the  Hon. Mavis Gilmour, Minister of Education, Chairman of the Jamaican National Commission for  Unesco, Head of the Delegation of Jamaica.
27.1 Mrs GILMOUR (Jamaica):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, distinguished delegates, on behalf of  the Jamaican delegation, it gives me great pleasure to congratulate, through you, Mr President,  Mr Ivo Margan on his election as President of this extraordinary session of the General Con-  ference. We also wish to extend a special welcome to Bhutan and Western Samoa and to our fellow  Caribbean states, the Bahamas, Belize and Antigua and Barbuda, on their admission to this family  of Member States of Unesco.
27.2 Seen at the end of 1982, world problems are overwhelming, in terms of economic crises, the  formidable problems of the development of human resources and the frightening prospects for inter-  national relationships. Unesco has a fundamental role to play in seeking solutions to all these  problems, through the control of agression, the elimination of prejudices and intolerance, in-  creased human productivity leading to the removal of poverty, and the promotion of international  understanding.
27.3 These can only be achieved by the concentrated will of man, and that can only be attained  through education, through the application of science and technology and through appreciation of  the diversified cultural experiences of mankind. The Member States of Unesco must regard this as  the basis of our meeting--education, science and culture as the means to human unity.
27.4 It is with this consciousness that Jamaica wishes to give its support to the Draft Medium-  Term Plan for 1984-1989. The fact that the Draft Plan has been formulated on the basis of a  detailed analysis of present world problems makes it not only relative but functional, and my  delegation wishes to congratulate the Director-General and his staff on their uncompromising  analysis of world problems, especially those relevant to education, science and culture, and their  presentation of a co-ordinated and workable text which provides an area of choice and emphasis  for each Member State, whether that state belongs to the developed or the developing world.
27.5 My delegation is most concerned with Major Programmes II, IV and V as bases for the elimi-  nation of the tensions and conflicts which we are asked to reflect upon. As part of the developing  world, we must keep our eyes on the practical and perhaps leave the philosophical and esoteric to  the developed countries! With this in mind, and in accordance with Major Programmes II, IV and  V, Jamaica wishes to affirm our policy-decision to make primary education universal, concomitantly  with our best efforts to tackle adult illiteracy, and to keep the year 2000 as the target date for  these achievements, as was agreed in the Mexico City Declaration.
27.6 The two most difficult obstacles Jamaica faces in the achievement of this programme are,  firstly, the provision of a nutritious meal, hygienically prepared and hygienically served to all  our 423,146 primary-school children; and, secondly, the universal and unsolved problem of the
182   disposal of human waste, which constitutes a serious problem for developing countries, where  domestic water supply is not always available. Such serious social and health problems plague the  efficiency of our school programme, especially at the primary level, and we would recommend that  Unesco undertake special research, especially where the second of the above-mentioned issues is  concerned.
27.7 Mr President, Major Programme V is of particular interest to us as it concerns regional co-  operation and technical co-operation among developing countries. Such co-operation is vital if  basic work is not to be repeated in every Member State and if we are not to invent the wheel  over and over again. For example, we in Jamaica have spent some three years and many man-  hours of work in producing a curriculum for our primary schools which, 1 am sure, could be used  in other parts of the Caribbean. There must be other Member States that have achieved equally  significant developments which we in Jamaica could use. It is therefore to be recommended that  Unesco act as a data bank, so that Member States might be informed of the availability of solu-  tions to some of our common problems.
27.8 Mr President, Jamaica is about to embark on the restructuring of our secondary-school  system, and we would surely benefit from the knowledge of work done in this area in other devel-  oping countries whose situations are similar to ours. Can we look to Unesco for such information  and guidance? In this connection, we wish to record our thanks to Unesco for having just com-  pleted the survey of our present secondary education system, which will provide us with the base  working document for the restructuring of that area of our school system.
27.9 Major Programme I1I, 'Communicatic: in the service of man', is relevant to our present plan-  ning in Jamaica, and its emphasis on the development of the developing countries' own capacity  through the strengthening of infrastructures and the training of personnel is the only policy that  could wisely be pursued if we are to maintain and encourage our cultural differences and to con-  tain the cultural shock' that our countries must suffer in this age of satellite transmissions from  the highly developed and industrialized countries. The impact of satellite transmissions and other  means of rapid communications on our appetite for consumer goods and on the heightened social  aspirations of our people are enough to cause serious dislocations in our country.
27.10 Under Major Programme III, we fully endorse the Director-General's intention to examine  the possibility of recommending to the General Conference a separate subprogramme for books,  since book development and printing are formidable hurdles for most developing countries; this is  particularly true in the Caribbean, with our lack of financial and human resources in this field.
27.11 Mr President, Major Programme XI is of paramount interest to Jamaica. Emphasis on the  protection of the cultural heritage, both physical and non-physical, is of special concern to the  Caribbean as we begin to prepare for the celebration of the 500th anniversary of the discovery of  the Americas. We have already taken steps to have New Seville, the only place in the New World  where Columbus lived for nearly one vear, recognized as a historic site in the Americas. We seek  the support of international agencies and of other nations in our effort to restore the archaeo-  logical site of New Seville to its original sixteenth-century configuration.
27.12 I should like to take this opportunity of launching a new appeal for voluntary contri-  butions to the International Fund for the Promotion of Culture. This Fund was set up as a result  of a proposal from the Prime Minister of Jamaica, the Hon. Edward Seaga, as long ago as 1970; it  was given the blessing of the First Werld Conference on Culture in Venice, endorsed by the  General Conference during the same year and finally became a reality in 1974.
27.13 Major Programme XII has the commendation and full support of Jamaica; while in respect of  Major Programme XIII, I need not remind this august body that it was a Jamaican initiative at the  United Nations which resulted in the launching of Human Rights Year in 1968.
27.14 Mr President, the role and status of women must be of special concern for Unesco, if for  no other reason than that the culture of a nation cannot be understood without reference to  family life and the role of women in that nucleus of human existence. Nor can Unesco ignore the  changing status of women or turn a blind eye to education as it affects women. Surely a compre-  hensive plan drawn up in 1982 must give the whole problem of womanhood a significant place. I  therefore recommend to the Organization that a major programme be designed to address the  various aspects of the role and status of women.
27.15 Mr President, the Jamaican delegation endorses the Draft Medium-Term Plan and  encourages each Member State to identify the areas in the Plan that relate to its specific needs,  to proceed to obtain national policy consensus with their own special plan and then begin the  hard work necessary for a successful outcome, despite the serious economic recession which is  now plaguing each and every one of our Member States.
27.16 Thank you, Mr President,
28. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Jamaica. I give the floor to H... Mr Carlos  Tunnermann Bernheim, Minister of Education, Head of the Delegation of Nicaragua, who will be  our last speaker for today.
(29.1) M. TUNNERMANN BERNHEIM (Nicaragua), - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général de l'Unesco, Mesdames et Messieurs les dé-  légués, le 19 juillet 1979, le peuple du Nicaragua, sous la conduite du Front sandiniste de libération natio-  nale, est parvenu à renverser l'une des dictatures les plus brutales et les plus longues de l'histoire de  l'Amérique latine. Depuis lors, le Nicaragua s'efforce de mener à bien sa révolution populaire sandiniste  qui se caractérise par le plein rétablissement de la souveraineté nationale, le pluralisme politique, une  économie mixte et le non-alignement en matière internationale, Notre révolution se caractérise aussi par  sa voca.ion populaire, démocratique et anti-impérialiste.
(29.2) Mais, depuis le moment où il a recouvré la liberté et le droit de décider de son destin, après une  gurre de libération sanglante qui nous a coûté plus de 50, 000 vies humaines, notre pays n'a cessé d'être  hr rcelé par ceux qui dénient aux petites nations le pouvoir inaliénable d'être les acteurs de leur propre  histoire et les seuls responsables de leur projet politique,
(29.3) Depuis le 19 juillet 1979, nous nous efforçons de construire une société plus juste, plus humaine  et plus fraternelle, mais depuis la même date, nous sommes obligés aussi de maintenir notre peuple en  état d'alerte et de l'inciter à demeurer constamment vigilant et prêt à défendre ses conquêtes car nous  sommes presque chaque jour victimes d'agressions de toutes sortes de la part des forces réactionnaires  de la contre-révolution encouragées par l'impérialisme nord-américain.
(29.4) Malgré les actions de harcèlement menées quotidiennement à ses frontières et les mesures visant  à freiner son développement, le Nicaragua a traduit dans les faits sa volonté politique de faire du droit à  l'éducation une réalité pour son peuple, La croisade nationale d'alphabétisation, qui a réduit sensiblement  le taux d'analphabétisme en le faisant tomber de 50,3 % à 12,9 %, a valu au Nicaragua l'attribution du Prix  international d'alphabétisation "Nadejda K. Krupskata'' pour 1980, Les efforts que nous avons faits pour  continuer cette grande oeuvre, en lançant un programme d'éducation des adultes, dont la caractéristique  essentielle est une large participation populaire, nous ont valu cette année une mention d'honneur du Prix  Irak,
(29.5) Je ne saurais passer sous silence ici, car ce serait faire peu de cas de la détermination héroïque  du peuple du Nicaragua et en particulier de sa jeunesse, le fait que ces résultats extraordinaires ont été  obtenus malgré l'action des bandes contre-révolutionnaires qui ont assassiné neuf alphabétiseurs pendant  la campagne l'alphabétisation,\et presque chaque mois exécutent ou séquestrent des enseignants populaires,  ces nouveaux éducateurs forgés par la révolution et dont la mission est de faire progresser l'éducation  des adultes,
(29.6) Nul n'ignore que le Nicaragua vit sous la menace d'une invasion imminente, Cette menace n'est  pas un produit de l'imagination de notre gouvernement, Les principaux magazines et quotidiens des Etats-  Unis, ainsi que les agences transnationales d'information ont eux-mêmes dénoncé ce risque et souligné  l'indéniable participation de conseillers nord-américains à la préparation d'actes d'agression contre mon  pays. Ceux-ci utilisent les restes de l'armée génocide du dictateur Somoza et les lancent contre un peuple  qui voudrait reconstruire dans la paix son pays dévasté lors de la guerre de libération, Ils se servent de  ces éléments misérables, qui ont écrit la page la plus déshonorante de l'histoire de mon pays, pour les  jeter contre notre révolution qui, solidement enracinée dans la réalité actuelle, construit un avenir  prometteur,
(29.7) Nous sommes donc un pays harcelé par la contre-révolution et par l'impérialisme nord-américain,  Nous sommes contraints de consacrer une grande partie de nos efforts à la défense de la souveraineté ue  la patrie et de la révolution,
(29.8) Mais ces harcèlements quotidiens n'ont pas empêché le Nicaragua de mettre en oeuvre ses grands  projets de transformation socio-économique, Au contraire, stimulés par ce défi, nous sommes prêts au  sacrifice pour transformer notre pays et surmonter les difficultés héritées du passé,
(29.9) En matière d'éducation et de culture, nous avons obtenu en moins de quatre ans plus de résultats  que les gouvernements précédents en un demi-siècle, Nous consacrons près de 15 % du budget national à  l'éducation, qui représente, avec la santé, plus du quart du budget de l'Etat, Conformément aux directives  fixées par le Conseil de gouvernement de la reconstruction nationale et en nous inspirant des résolutions  et recommandations de l'Unesco, qui coopère avec nous depuis que la révolution a triomphé, nous sommes  parvenus à faire en sorte que l'éducation ‘:vienne un droit pour tous, qu'elle cesse d'être le privilège de  quelques-uns et qu'elle perde la teuaance élitiste qui ia caractérisait auparavant.
(29.10) C'est dans ces circonstances difficiles que notre délégation assiste à cette quatrième session  extraordinaire de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco, animée d'un grand désir de contribuer elle aussi  à l'analyse d'un document ayant la qualité et la valeur conceptuelles qui sont celles du Projet de plan à  moyen terme qui nous est proposé par le Secrétariat.
(29.11) Mais si tout le Plan repose sur une analyse approfondie et brillante de la problématique mondiale  faite par un homme que nous admirons, notre ami le Directeur général de l'Unesco, M, Amadou-Mahtar  M'Bow, une partie de cette problématique est constituée par la situation de pays comme le Nicaragua, que  l'on tente d'empêcher, par des moyens violents, d'appliquer leurs plans de développement et de réforme  éducative, leurs politiques de démocratisation de la culture et de progrès scientifique et technique, enfin  leur projet révolutionnaire, qui est dans notre cas, l'instrument par excellence grâce auquel notre peuple  se propose d'atteindre les buts élevés qu'il s'est assignés, Ne s'agit-il pas là précisément d'un exemple  d'atteinte à la liberté des peuples qui semble tellement préoccuper certains délégués ? C'est donc dans  cette perspective que nous analyserons les projets de l'Unesco pour la présente décennie,
(29.12) I faut d'abord reconnaitre au Directeur général le mérite d'avoir tenu à faire de la rédaction du  Plan un "effort intellectuel collectif", Jamais auparavant un document de l'Unesco n'avait donné lieu à  autant de consultations et à une participation aussi importante re le Plan soumis à l'attention de notre  assemblée, D'autre part, il est facile de constater que les principes généraux et les orientations approu-  vés lors de la vingt et unième session de la Conférence générale ont été soigneusement pris en considéra-  tion, Il avait été précisé à cette occasion que "le point de départ du processus de planification devrait être  l'analyse des problèmes mondiaux, y compris de leurs aspects régionaux, ainsi que la détermination de  la contribution que l'Unesco aura à apporter à leur solution, conformément à ses domaines de compétences”.  Ainsi, le Plan soumis à notre examen est fondé sur une analyse de la problématique mondiale, cadre con-  ceptuel général qui, tout en respectant la diversité des points de vue, offre un schéma de référence com-  mun permettant de définir les principales lignes d'action de l'Unesco dans ses domaines de compétences,
(29,13) L'étude des résultats de cette analyse, en fonction des objectifs que son Acte constitutif assigne  à l'Organisation, nous conduit à définir les cinq missions clés de l'Unesco et à poser sur des bases s0-  lides les principes de son action pour la présente décennie, C'est donc à juste titre que cette analyse est  qualifiée de "pierre de touche de tout l'édifice de la planification" dans le Plan lui-même dont elle est une  partie intégrante et fondamentale, Nous approuvons en cela le point de vue du Directeur général selon  lequel considérer cette analyse comme une activité extérieure au Plan serait en nier la logique interne,
(29.14) La délégation du Nicaragua exprime ses félicitations les plus vives au Directeur général pour ce  remarquable cadre général de référence qui, selon ses propres termes, est plus une "meéditation'' sur les  problèmes mondiaux qu'un exposé systématique de ces problèmes mais qui par sa profondeur, sa valeur  conceptuelle, sa précision et son élégance de langage, nous permet de voir clairement quelles sont les  questions qui préoccupent l'homme d'aujourd'hui,
(29.15) L'un des paradoxes du monde actuel est que les pays sont de plus en plus proches, reliés par  un ‘réseau de rapports vitaux et de dépendances réciproques", mais de plus en plus éloignés les uns des  autres par leurs niveaux de développement et par la part qu'ils reçoivent des avantages qui en découlent,  Il existe entre les peuples d'énormes inégalités qui compromettent les perspectives d'instauration d'une  communauté mondiale solidaire capable d'assurer à tous les hommes une vie meilleure, de les affranchir  des contraintes qui accablent une grande partie de l'humanité et de favoriser le plein épanouissement de  leurs capacités créatrices,
(29,16) Il est évident que l'avenir des sociétés contemporaines s'inscrit dans un espace qui s'élargit dé-  sormais aux dimensions de la planète, que les influences réciproques se multiplient et que l'interdépen-  dance devient multidimensionnelle, Mais, comme le souligne ce document, ce processus est à la fois une  source d'enrichissement mutuel mais aussi une source de graves frustrations, car il s'accompagne de  l'aggravation de la condition de certains peuples,
(29.17) En matière commerciale, les termes de l'échange continuent d'être défavorables aux pays sous-  développés ; l'expansion industrielle des pays riches entraîne une dégradation de l'environnement dans les  pays pauvres, Dans le domaine culturel, la contradiction est frappante car, comme le fait observer le  document, les échanges et les contacts s'accompagnent d'une tendance croissante à l'uniformisation des  goûts et des comportements, à l'homogénéisation de certaines normes de vie, de pensée et d'action, de  production et de consommation,
(29.18) Les indicateurs économiques et sociaux de la situation mondiale révèlent des disparités criantes  entre les nations et même entre les différents groupes sociaux d'un même pays. Ce sont les pays du Tiers  Monde, et dans ces pays les secteurs marginaux, qui connaissent les conditions les plus lamentables en  ce qui concerne le niveau de vie, l'emploi, le logement, l'éducation, l'alimentation ou l'accès à la culture  et à la création artistique,
(29.19) Pour toutes ces raisons, la délégation du Nicaragua considère que l'Unesco peut jouer un rôle  déterminant dans l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international, non seulement par le travail  de sensibilisation qu'implique cette tâche, mais aussi par les mesures concrètes qui s'inscrivent dans sa  stratégie et qui correspondent à ses domaines de compétences,
(29.20) Ces mesures reposent sur le principe d'un développement intégral pour tous les pays, qui englobe  toutes les dimensions de la vie, notamment la dimension culturelle, On aboutit ainsi à une conception huma-  niste du développement, dont la culture fait partie intégrante, Un tel type de développement implique aussi  une modification des structures sociales qui contribuent à marginaliser le plus grand nombre et à le main-  tenir dans la misère,
(29.21) Pour favoriser l'établissement de ce nouvel ordre économique international, l'Unesco doit agir  comme la conscience critique de l'humanité en dénonçant ce qu'il y a d'inadmissible dans la situation ac-  tuelle, reflet d'un état de choses qui ne peut ni ne doit continuer, et qui ne saurait même être qualifié  d'ordre économique car il est caractérisé par le désordre moral et économique, la domination arbitraire  et l'exploitation de peuples entiers, On peut résumer simplement le désordre actuel en disant que certains  pays gagnent toujours et que d'autres ne cessent de perdre, L'Unesco doit susciter une prise de conscience  de ce que l'on a appelé l'ordre international de la misère et la misère de l'ordre international actuel, car,  en l'absence de relations économiques internationales plus justes, les fondements mêmes de la paix demeu-  reront fragiles. Or la promotion de la paix constitue le but suprême de toute l'action de l'Unesco, comme  l'énonce clairement son Acte constitutif.
(29.22) On ne peut séparer le thème de la paix des préoccupations relatives à la réduction des tensions  qui existent dans diverses parties du monde, notamment en Amérique centrale où ces tensions sont actuel-
189   lement très vives, ainsi que des efforts entrepris en vue de ralentir la course aux armements et de lutter  contre la discrimination, le néo-colonialisme, le racisme et l'apartheid,
(29,23) Faire de la recherche permanente de la paix l'objectif ultime de tous les efforts de l'Unesco dans  les domaines de sa compétence c'est donner à son action non seulement une dimension morale essentielle  mais également l'orienter vers le plus strict respect des nobles objectifs qui ont présidé à sa création,  Nous ne pouvons tolérer que la terre devienne le cimetière flottant de notre civilisation, ce ‘Vaisseau fan-  tôme"' peint par Gustave Doré, qui erre à travers la voûte infinie du ciel sans mémoire, sans histoire. Il  est indispensable aussi d'établir un équilibre entre les impératifs respectifs du développement, de la pro-  tection de l'environnement et de la conservation des ressources naturelles renouvelables,
(29.24) Dans ces conditions, nous souscrivons au principe d'un écodéveloppement dont l'objectif fonda -  mental est d'utiliser les ressources pour satisfaire les besoins de la population en améliorant la qualité  de la vie des générations présentes et futures, Cela implique une bonne connaissance et un souci de la  réalité de la nature et une véritable symbiose entre la population et l'environnement, faute de quoi on ne  saurait obtenir un développement soutenu.
(29.25) Qu'il s'agisse de l'hécatombe nucléaire ou de la dégradation de la nature provoquée par un déve-  loppement vorace et égofste, si l'humanité ne s'attache pas avec détermination à éliminer ces dangers,  un échec de nos efforts conduirait à la disparition de "l'homme planétaire",
(29.26) Les aspirations définies dans le grand programme "L'éducation pour tous'' ne peuvent qu'être  partagées par les pays qui, comme le nôtre, ne sont pas encore parvenus à scolariser l'ensemble de la  population et en particulier par les pays d'Amérique latine qui, dans la déclaration adoptée à Mexico en  décembre 1979, ont pris l'engagement d'adopter une politique pour éliminer l'analphabétisme avant la fin  du siècle, étendre le bénéfice de l'éducation aux adultes, donner à l'ensemble de la population un niveau  minimal d'éducation générale de huit à dix années et faire entrer dans le système éducatif tous les enfants  d'Age scolaire avant 1999, Les principes et objectifs du grand programme “L'éducation pour tous” corres-  pondent aux objectifs du projet majeur en éducation pour l'Amérique latine et les Caraïbes que nous, Etats  membres de la région, mettons actuellement en oeuvre avec la collaboration de l'Unesco,
(29.27) Les contenus de l'éducation contemporaine seraient sans consistance s'ils n'étaient pas étroite-  ment liés aux grands problèmes auxquels l'humanité doit faire face aujourd'hui, L'homme doit être cons-  cient des dangers qui le guettent ; il doit connaître les causes des grandes disparités économiques d'où  procèdent la misère, la maladie, l'ignorance et la guerre, Ce n'est qu'avec une connaissance précise,  réelle et scientifique du contexte qui conditionne la politique et l'économie mondiale que les peuples pour-  ront participer en pleine connaissance de cause à une lutte destinée à mettre fin aux inégalités, aux con-  flits, à la marginalisation, à l'ignorance, aux discriminations et aux autres maux du monde actuel.
(29,28) Au Nicaragua, dès les premiers jours de la révolution, nous avons pris conscience de la néces-  sité de donner cette dimension à l'éducation car nous sommes obligés de tenir notre peuple informé pour  qu'il comprenne les difficultés que nous connaissons dans le domaine économique, qu'il participe avec luci-  dité aux tâches de reconstruction et de défense et qu'il sache bien ce que signifierait une guerre, qu'elle  soit nationale, régionale ou univergelle, Nous ne partageons pas le point de vue de ceux qui pensent que  l'Unesco doit être un simple organe d'exécution, car ce serait nier sa fonction intellectuelle et amoindrir  son rôle, Affirmer que l'Unesco n'a pas de vocation théorique mais une simple mission pratique c'est  dénaturer l'esprit de son Acte constitutif et renier le sens profond du très beau préambule de ce document  que nous a légué le grand poète nord-américain Archibald MacLeish.
(29.29) Les pays du Tiers Monde, dont le Nicaragua fait partie, militent pour que s'établisse entre les  nations un système mondial fondé sur les valeurs morales les plus élevées,
(29.30) L'Unesco s'est toujours efforcée de libérer l'information de toute limitation due aux préjugés,  à la volonté de puissance ou à la cupidité, Le Nicaragua apporte tout son appui à cette politique et croit  que la coopération internationale ouvrira des perspectives fécondes dans ce domaine d'une importance  vitale pour les pays du Tiers Monde, En résumé, le Nicaragua soutient les efforts visant à l'instauration  d'un nouvel ordre mondial de l'information et de la communication.
(29.31) En conclusion, Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi d'insister sur ce qui nous paraft plus im-  portant que tout, Le Nicaragua veut la paix, Nous voulons la paix parce que nous en avons besoin pour  reconstruire notre patrie dévastée par la guerre, mise A sac pendant des siècles par des impérialismes  voraces, trahie par certains de ses dirigeants traditionnels et ravagée par une nature aveugle, Nous vou-  lons la paix parce que nous vivons dans la guerre depuis des siècles, depuis les rébellions de l'ère colo-  niale jusqu'aux guerres fratricides de l'indépendance, Nous voulons la paix pour éduquer les générations  nouvelles, pour mettre la culture à la portée des ouvriers et des paysans, pour construire des écoles,  des terrains de sport, des dispensaires et des logements, Nous voulons la paix pour pouvoir exploiter nos  terres fertiles et pour que le Nicaragua redevienne le "grenier de l'Amérique centrale” qu'il fut autrefois,
(29.32) Telle est l'aspiration suprême de notre peuple, telle que l'a exprimée le Coordonnateur de notre  Conseil de gouvernement, commandant de la révolution, le camarade Daniel Ortega Saavedra, le 18 mars
1982 au sein même de l'Assemblée des Nations Unies, où il a déclaré : "En mémoire des millions d'hommes  morts dans les guerres au cours de l'Histoire, en mémoire des millions d'hommes torturés et assassinés  dans les camps de concentration nazis de la Deuxième Guerre mondiale, en mémoire des milliers de pa-  triotes tombés lors des luttes de libération contre le colonialisme, le racisme et toutes les formes d'op-  pression, en mémoire des patriotes d'Amérique centrale morts en combattant pour l'indépendance, pour
190   la justice et pour la paix, au nom du droit des peuples à être libres, souverains et indépendants, du droit  de l'humanité à chérir la paix et à l'exiger : au nom de ce droit, que la paix règne en Amérique centrale!"  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
30.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Nicaragua. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are coming  to the close of this afternoon's meeting, and of a fruitful day. Thanks to everybody's co-  operation we are, I think, getting along quite well as far as time is concerned.
30.2 The meeting is now adjourned. We shall meet again here tomorrow at 9.30 a.m.  The meeting rose at 7,05 p.m,  La séance est levée à 19 h, 05  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 19,05
3acenante sakpuBaeTCcs B 19.05  Flae BEL (75 Badal and  SNF 9 HÉ59 EX