Third plenary meeting
26 October 1983 at 10.15 a.m.  President: Mr MARGAN (Yugoslavia)  later: Mr TELL (Jordan)  Troisième séance plénière
3aMeCTHT-b: r-H TEJIb (WOpnaHHÆ)  iipencenaTenb: r-H MAPrAH (iûrocnamfi)
341    ARREARS OF CONTRIBUTIONS: STATEMENT BY THE TEMPORARY PRESIDENT/  ARRIERES DE CONTRIBUTIONS : DECLARATIONS DU PRESIDENT PROVISOIRE/  DECLARACION DEL PRESIDENTE PROVISIONAL RELATIVA A LAS CONTRIBUCIONES ATRASADAS/
3AaOJïTEHHOCTM no BbIïiJIATE B3HOCOB: 3ARBJïEHklE BPEMEHHOTO ìlPEaCEmTEJïR/
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Good morning ladies and gentlemen, I declare open ttiis third plenary meeting.
1.2 Firstly, I should like to inform you that in my capacity as Temporary Presi-  dent, I have received from the Director-General a communication emanating from El  Salvador invoking paragraph 8 (c) of Article IV of the Constitution. Is it your  wish that El Salvador should also be permitted to vote in accordance with this  Article of the Constitution?
1.3 I see no objections: it is so decided.  ELECTION OF THE PRESIDENT AND VICE-PRESIQENTS OF THE CONFERENCE/  ELECCION DEL PRESIDENTE Y DE LOS VICEPRESIDENTES DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL/  M3BPAHME iIPEaCEaATEJIR M 3AMECTMTEJIEm lTPEaCEDATEJIR rEHEPAJIbHOm KOHOEPEH4MM/  ELECTION DU PRESIDENT ET DES VICE-PRESIDENTS DE LA CONFERENCE/  'L.IJLs ?LJi ++JI &>?GzI  &+h4*RMiJ &/%
2. The PRES IDENT : . .   Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now take up item 5 of our agenda, beginning  with the election of the President. I give the floor to Mr Ndinga Oba, Chairman  of the Nominations Committee.
3.1 M. NDINGA OBA (Congo), président du Comité des candidatures :  Monsieur le Président, le Comité des candidatures qui, à sa première séance,  m'a élu à sa présidence, a examiné les recommandations du Conseil exécutif rela-  tives aux candidatures aux fonctions de président et de vice-présidents de la Con-  férence générale.
3.2 Le Comité a décidé par acclamation de recommander à la Conférence générale  d'élire S. Exc. M. Said M. Tell, ministre de l'éducation de la Jordanie, président  de la vingt-deuxième session de la Conférence générale, conforrn6ment à la proposi-  tion du Conseil exécutif.  (Applaudissements prolongés)
4.1 The PRESIDENT:  approval of the nomination of H.E. Dr Said Tell, head of the delegation of Jordan,  as President of the twenty--second session of the General Conference and I declare  him elected by acclamation.
4.2 Dr Tell, in transmitting to you the powers of President of the General Con-  ference, I should like to congratulate you most warmly on your election. At the  twenty-first session in Belgrade I had the occasion of making your personal  acquaintance, and was able to appreciate the qualities of leadership and intel-  lectualdistinctionwhich - together with your experience of the General Conference  and other international gatherings - will ensure that this session of our General  Conference is in the best possible hands.
5.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :  pendant trois ans, je voudrais le reme.rcier en votre nom à tous et lui remettre en  témoignage de reconnaissance la médaille d'or de l'Unesco. Cette médaille, vous le  savez, a été créée par le Conseil exécutif pour rendre hommage à des personnalités  qui se sont particulièrement distinguées au service de l'Organisation.
5.2 M. Margan, je n'ai pas besoin de le rappeler, a assuré à la grande satisfac-  tion de tous la présidence de la vingt et unième session de la Conférence générale  à Belgrade. Tous ceux qui ont participé Fi cette session de la Conférence générale  se souviennent de la maîtrise avec laquelle il a mené les débats et de la chaleu-  reuse hospitalité que leur ont réservée le peuple et le gouvernement de la  Yougoslavie.  Ladies and gentlemen, your sustained applause indicates quite clearly your  Mesdames, Messieurs, avant que M. Margan quitte les fonctions qu'ilaoccupées
5.3 M. Margan a aussi eu la lourde tâche d'assurer la présidence de la quatrième  session extraordinaire de la Conférence générale au cours de laquelle a été adopté  le Plan à moyen terme et, malgré les difficultés que beaucoup pressentaient, il a  réussi 2 préserver le climat nécessaire pour que les Etats membres puissent se  mettre d'accord par consensus sur les orientations qui guideront la vie de l'Orga-  nisation pendant six ans.
5.4 Depuis hier, M. Margan dirige les travaux de la Conférence ggnérale, en qua-  lité de président provisoire. En lui remettant cette médaille, je voudrais donc le  remercier au nom de tous les Etats membres de l'Organisation et aussi lui exprimer  la gratitude du Secrétariat pour les liens de coopération étroite qu'il a noués  avec lui depuis qu'il a été porté à ses hautes fonctions.  l'Organisation à M. Ivo Margan.)  (Le Directeur général remet la médaille d'or de
6.1 The PRESIDENT:  rostrum, allow me to say a few parting words. Let me thank you first of all very  deeply for this handsome medal; I shall always cherish it as a souvenir of three  important and enriching years of my life. In these past three years I have had the  special privilege of presiding over one ordinary session and one extraordinary  session of the General Conference; whatever success I may have achieved from the  first to the last day of my mandate, from 24 September 1980 in Belgrade to today,
26 October 1983 in Paris, is due to a collective effort. It is therefore not in  my name alone, but on behalf of all those who have contributed to our work, that  I most gratefully accept this Unesco medal.
6.2 First, I must pay a tribute to the Executive Board as a whole, to each of  its members and to its distinguished Chairman,' Ambassador Massuh, for the careful  attention they have always paid to questions of concern to our General Conference,  for the guidelines they have issued and for the hospitable welcome they have  extended to me during all their sessions.  Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, before I step down from this
6.3  ation for his statesmanship, his intellectual and moral authority and his tireless  energy, qualities of which he has given unstintingly to our General Conference.  Through you, Mr Director-General, I should also like to thank your colleagues in  the Directorate, who have always facilitated the work of our Conference with skill  and dedication.  Next, I must thank the Director-General very warmly and with sincere admir-
6.4 For guiding me so patiently and ably in all the mysteries of conference  procedure and ensuring the smooth organization of our Conference, I must reiterate  the thanks I already expressed at Belgrade to Mr Vladimir Stepanek and to his  dynamic successor Mr Thomas Keller, as well as his deputy, Mr Jean Millerioux and  all the other men and women who make up the central Secretariat of the General  Conference.
6.5 I should also like to record my gratitude to Miss Judith Horner, my Secretary,  and Mr Y.R. Isar, my Assistant, for their competent and devoted services which have  helped me very considerably in fulfilling my responsibilities with confidence and  serenity.
6.6 There are many other members of your Secretariat, Mr Director-General, who  ensured the success of the Belgrade session and the fourth extraordinary session  and whose arduous task has begun once again: interpreters, translators, technicians,  documentalists and others in different fields, visible and invisible, who achieved  marvels at Belgrade and miracles during the fourth extraordinary session. This  medal has been earned by all of them as well.
6.7 Ladies and gentlemen and, as I can now say once again, fellow delegates, to  you who elected me at Belgrade three years ago, I must express my appreciation of  the determination and stamina you have shown. You too deserve this medal for sheer  endurance. And I cannot forget the goodwill and co-operation you have always dem-  onstrated towards me. Throughout the past two sessions I have been honoured and  assisted by the loyal and constructive support of my colleagues in the General  Committee. I thank them all wholeheartedly.
6.8 I am sure that you will be as obliging and co-operative towards your new  President. I leave you in his capable hands and wish him, in closing, all success  in the conduct of this twenty-second session of the General Conference. Once again,  thank you all, thank you very much.  (Mr Margan left the presidential chair and resumed his seat as head  of the delegation of Yugoslavia. Mr Tell, head of the delegation of  Jordan, assumed the presidency)
(7.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  the General Conference of Unesco, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I am indeed greatly honoured that you have  seen fit to entrust me with the presidency of this, the twenty-second session of the Gen-  eral Conference. Out of deference to the desire of the Conference that I assume this task,  I shall endeavour to act with courage tempered by humility and with a profound awareness  of, my responsibility, relying upon Almighty God and upon your generous co-operation in  bearing this burden of trust and discharging the duties of my office.
(7.2). I also see this election as a mark of honour for my country, Jordan, which, like  many small developing countries, has enjoyed membership of Unesco for nearly thirty years  now. During that time it has been faithful to the Organization's CPnstitution, principies  and objectives and has worked quickly to spread education, science and culture throughout  its territory. In the course of the past'three decades it has made great strides in all  areas, despite the terrible events by which it has been afflicted, and it continues today,  under its wise leadership, to advocate peace, justice and progress, not only for itself  but for all the peoples of the world.
(7.3) In addition, I regard this election as a mark of honour for the Arab world as a  whole, for my nation, the Arab nation, and its culture. That nation has contributed to  human civilization the eternal cultural values of the revealed religious and the scien-  tific knowledge that was so influential a factor in the rise of the modern world; today  it is striving to assert its personality and 'to forge an indissoluble link between tra-  ditional and contemporary ways as it moves in step with the march of civilization. Accord-  ingly, on behalf of Jordan, on behalf of the Arab nation and its culture, and on my own  Mr President of the twenty-first session and the fourth extraordinary session of
345    behalf', I extend to you my sincere thanks and profound gratitude, and I offer you a sin-  cere pledge and solemn promise that I will proceed in accordance with the admirable tra-  dition established by the former Presidents of the General Conference and do my utmost to  make the work of this Conference a success.
(7.4) In this connection, I cannot but pay tribute to Dr Ivo Margan, President of the  twenty-first session and the fourth extraordinary session of the General Conference of  Unesco. By his wisdom and his country's heritage, he has exemplified Unesco's principles  in the areas of co-operation, peace and justice, thereby helping, in the course of the  past three years, to keep Unesco in a position where it can'hold its course and continue  its record of achievement. One of the most impressive achievements, of course, is the  Second Medium-Term Plan, to .the preparation, formulation and adoption of which all of you  contributed.
(7.5) Similarly - speaking of this Plan - I cannot forbear to pay tribute to the efforts  of the Executive Board and its Chairman and those of the Secretariat of Unesco and its  intellectual leadership personified in the Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, who  has consistently exercised and continues to exercise worldwide responsibility. I should  like to say to the Director-General that I hope to co-operate with him and his colleagues  of the Secretariat in fulfilling the tasks that have been entrusted to me, as my predeces-  sors have done.
(7.6) Ladies and gentlemen, the picture of today's worl'd outlined in Unesco's Second  Medium-Term Plan does not inspire great optimism. Unesco, which has striven since its  founding to propagate education, science and culture and to build the defences of peace  in the minds of men, now faces the challenges of a world divided against itself. The gap  between wealth and poverty, and between the advanced and the less advanced societies, is  widening every day. The numbers of people suffering from disease or afflicted by hunger  and malnutrition is growing constantly. The fruits of scientific and technological progress  continue to be the prerogative of a small number of States. Human rights and the rights  and culture of peoples continue to be violated in many parts of the world. The information  media, both official and unofficial, continue to present a one-sided view. Racial discrimi-  nation in its vilest forms continues to be practised in some parts of the world. Local  wars continue to destroy innocent lives, cause utter destruction and sweep away flourishing  communities and development projects. The arms race and the stockpiling of conventional,  biological and nuclear weapons is proceeding apace. We must ask ourselves: are we following  the road of light or the road of darkness? The road of construction or the road of destruc-  tion? The road.of survival-or.the road of annihilation? The road.af life or the road of  death? Or, to put the matter in the words of a well-known quotation., are we 'to be or not  to be'? These fateful questions are not only relevant to decision-makers among politicians  and military men: we who are concerned with education, science and culture must consider  them too. Just as these challenges confront the United Nations, so also they confront  Unesco and its General Conference, making it incumbent upon us to strive for greater co-  operation in support of Unesco's efforts in its fields of competence, in education,  science, culture, communication and information, and its contribution to the strengthening  of peace, human rights, the rights of peoples and cultural rights.
(7.7) Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think I need recall the importance of the present  session of the General Conference, which is the first ordinary session since approval of  the Second Medium-Term Pian for 1984-1989. The Programme and Budget for 1984-1985 which  are before this Conference constitute the first of the three stages in the implementation  of that Plan. It is thus essential for us to look at document 22 C/5 from this specific  standpoint when we examine the programmes it contains and consider the financial resources  required to implement them. I find some reassurance in the fact that the resolutions in  this connection that were adopted by the fourth extraordinary session of the General Con-  ference will serve to guide the measures taken by this Conference as regards the adoption  of appropriate resolutions. It would also be a good idea for us to renounce, at this ses-  sion, certain 'sectoral' practices, if I may so put the matter, when examining document
22 C/5, for that document has been i-ecast: it is not organized by programme sectors, as  has been the case heretofore, but by major intersectoral programmes which support the  interdisciplinary approach.
(7.8) Ladies and gentlemen, Unesco's strength resides in our belief in the ethical role  played by our Organization and in its ability to accept and respect a variety of opinions  in many matters. The mere fact that we are gathered together here at this meeting is in  itself conclusive evidence that it is within our power to prevent our differences of  opinion from constituting a barrier to constructive dialogue starting from the belief held  by all of us that it is essential to respect the opinions of others and to search for  agreement, work out solutions, and adopt acceptable resolutions. I say this because it is  obvious tnat my success in performing my task depends, first and last, on God's help, to  be sure, but also on your assistance and co-operation in reaching a consensus, especially  in instances where mutual concessions are required in order for that consensus to be  attainable. I am well aware that in some cases this objective will not be easy to reach,  and I also realize that on occasion there may be genuine difficulties that will make it  nearly impossible to achieve consensus. However, I also know that the General Conference  has always emerged from such difficulties stronger and greater than before, and I promise  .you that I, for my part, will devote all my efforts to ensuring that this will continue to  be the case.
(7.9) In its Medium-Term Plan Unesco has addressed the conscience of the world in setting  forth its intellectual, operational and ethical tasks, and I shall not be exaggerating  when I say that there is general agreement on the need for Unesco to participate in various  activities, including: carrying out studies on the contemporary world and honestly putting  the findings of those studies into practice, respect for international organizations and  adoption and implementation of their decisions, support for a new economic order based on  justice, a flow of funds to the least developed countries, and technology transfer on a  basis of mutual advantage, the eradication of bias and falsification in the media, both  official and unofficial, an end to arming and arms stockpiling, and the diversion of some  of the resources currently used for those purposes to international development and the  .  .
346    effort to eradicate poverty, ignorance and disease, the establishment of a new humane  ethical order that will strengthen human dignity and which emphasizes mankind's exercise  of its rights and safeguards the rights of peoples. If we really believe in one world,  with all humanity having the right to dignity, security and prosperity, the attributes of  trustworthiness, truthfulness, culture, wisdom and morality which you possess as represen-  tatives of your respective States and of the peoples and communities of the world consti-  tute the surest guarantee that our dialogues will be responsible and that our optioiis will  be in favour of agreement, co-operation and peace. May the voice of conscience and wisdom  that we heard yesterday in the address of the President of the French Republic be a model  which is imitated in international co-operation and in support for our old-established  Organization as it continues to carry out its exalted mission under the most difficult  conditions.
(7.10) Let the principles of Unesco guide our steps and let the spirit of Unesco, based on  mutual understanding, be our road, and let us provide our Conference - through your co-  operation - with every posslble factor conducive to success, and let our watchword be the  divine words of the Holy Koran: 'We have created you from a male and a female and divided  you into nations and tribes that you might get to know one another. The noblest of you in  God's sight is he who fears him most'. This'is God's truth. Peace and the mercy and bles-  sing of God be upon you.  :&>I A  . &dl -1s; "CZïI UL ë;-l .-l+D* pl;J .-L=++I 'L+l G,, +LI 'UI ,+t "31,
(8.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  the Committee's recommendations with regard to the election of the Vice-presidents.  I now give the floor to the Chairman of the Nominations Committee, who will present
9.1 M. NDINGA OBA (Congo), président du Comité des candidatures :  du Comité des candidatures, permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, de m'associer aux  félicitations qui viennent de vous être adressées pour votre élection.  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Avant de poursuivre la présentation du rapport
9.2 Monsieur le Président, le président du Conseil exécutif a informé le Comité  des candidatures que le Conseil exécutif avait proposé de porter de 32 à 34 le  nombre des vice-présidents de la Conférence générale. A cet effet, il convient de  suspendre pour la durée de cette session, conformément à l'article 108 du Règlement  intérieur de la Conférence générale, l'application des articles 25.1 et 38.1 de ce  Règlement qui précisent le nombre des vice-présidents.
9.3 Le Comité, après avoir entendu les propositions du Conseil exécutif relatives  au nombre des vice-presidents de la Conférence générale, a décidé de recommander à  la Conférence générale de suspendre l'application des articles 25.1 et 38.1 du Re-  glement intérieur de la Conférence générale, et de porter de 32 à 34 le nombre des  vice-présidents de la Conférence générale pour sa vingt-deuxième session.
(10.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  to suspend Rules 25.1 and 38.1 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference for the  purposes of this session, in accordance with the provisions of Rule 108 of the Rules of  Procedure, to enable us to approve the recommendations of the Nominations Committee con-  cerning the Vice-presidents. Do you agree to this proposal?  I thank the Chairman of the Nominations Committee. You have just heard a proposal
(10.2) As I see no objections to this proposal I declare the said rules suspended during  this session of the General Conference.
(10.3) I now give the floor to the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
11. M. NDINGA OBA (Congo), président du Comité des candidatures :  comme vice-présidents de la Conférence générale les chefs des délégations des Etats  Le Comité a également décidé à l'unanimité de recommander que soient nommés
347    membres suivants : République fédérale d'Allemagne, Australie, Bénin, Brésil,  Burundi, Chine, Equateur, Etats-Unis d'Amérique, Ethiopie, France, Ghana, Guinée,  Inde, Irak, Jamahiriya arabe libyenne populaire et socialiste, Japon, Lesotho,  Nicaragua, Nigéria, Norvège, Pakistan, Pays-Bas, Pologne, Portugal, République do-  minicaine, République islamique d'Iran, République-Unie de Tanzanie, Sainte-Lucie,  Sac Tomé-et-Principe, Tchécoslovaquie, Thaïlande, Union des républiques socialistes  soviétiques, Uruguay et Yémen.
(12.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Chairman of the Nominations Committee. You have heard the list of  Member States whose heads of delegation the Nominations Committee is recommending as Vice-  Presidents of this session of the General Conference. Do you agree with these nominations?
(12.2) Thank you. As I see no objections to these nominations, I hereby declare the afore-  mentioned heads of delegation elected Vice-presidents.
(12.3) I give the floor to the representative of Cuba, who wishes to speak.
(13.1) Mr HART DAVALOS (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, fellow delegates: peace means respect for the rights of others, to  quote the Mexican patriot Benito Juárez. The hero of Cuban independence, José Marti, said  that silence in the presence of a crime is tantamount to complicity. At this Conference  the Cuban delegation firmly denounces the outrageous invasion of the .Republic of Grenada  by the United States Marines, and CaTls for solidarity with its people. Nothing can justify  the invasion of this small Caribbean island, which has never constituted a threat to its  neighbours, still less to the largest and most important military power in the western  hemisphere.
(13.2) Cuba has collaborated most willingly and at some sacrifice to itself in the devel-  opment of Grenada, especially in the fields of education, culture, public health and  construction. Here Cuba has been complying not only with the resolutions of Unesco and  other international organizations which call for co-operation among developing countries,  but above all with the dictates of conscience, making available its slender resources in  order to further the development of other countries in the Third World. I must point out  that Cuban voluntary workers were directly attacked by the troops that invaded Grenada and  that their resistance was, and is, heroic proof that the arrogance of aggressors will not  easily triumph over the determination of the peoples of Latin America and the Caribbean to  be independent.
(13.3) By what right was Grenada attacked and invaded? Is there any Security Council res-  olution to justify this act? The only explanation is the self-appointed role of the present  Government of the United States, representing the American military machine, as a world  police force. This is not an isolated case. Since the beginning of the century, on äozens  of occasions, the United States has intervened in the Caribbean and in Central America,  and even today United States Marines are unlawfully present in this region of the world.
(13.4) Mr President, fellow delegates: a precedent is being set which deserves to be  analysed with the utmost calm, because tomorrow the next victim could be any of the States  represented here. I should like this fact to be taken fully into consideration in the name  of the principles set forth in the Charter of the United Nations, in the Constitution of  Unesco and in the resolutions approved by this Organization in defence of sovereignty,  independence and the right to development. We ask for this Conference's solidarity with  the people of Grenada, the cessation of foreign intervention and the withdrawal of the  invading troops.
(13.5) I should like to give delegates some additional information so that they may appreci-  ate the calm with which Cuba has reacted in this matter. In recent declarations our Govern-  ment pointed out, among other things, that we had done all in our power to forestall the  intervention. In our note written on Saturday we explained that no United States or other  foreign citizen was as far as we know in any kind of danger; we also expressed our willing-  ness to co-operate in a non-violent solution of problems. We stated that the intervention
349    was absolutely unjustifiable, since we had abstained from interfering in the internal  affairs of Grenada, despite our ties of friendship and fellow-feeling. The reply to this  constructive note, delivered on Saturday 22 October, arrived on Tuesday 25 October at
8.30 a.m.. when our personnel and installations at the airport had already been under  attack by United States troops for an hour and a half. We had no soldiers in Grenada, only  genuine civilian construction workers and assistants, apart from a few dozen military  advisers working with the army and the security forces. Our people had instructions to  fight only if attacked, and they were not the first to fire; they had also been instructed  to do nothing to hinder any action to evacuate United States citizens. In today's fighting  the total of our casualties, including dead and wounded, is not yet known. The attack by  the United States troops was a surprise attack, with no previous warning whatsoever: and  although the Cuban personnel still resisting are very much outnumbered, and technically  and militarily at a disadvantage, their morale is good and they are determined to go on  to defend themselves if the attacks continue. Our Government has said that if further  bloodshed is to be avoided, the attacks on the Cuban and Grenadian personnel still fighting  must cease, and a äignified end be sought to hostilities which in no way redound to the  honour of the United States. A tiny force is involved, which, while militarily unable to  resist the overwhelming superiority of the United States or inflict a large-scale defeat,  is nevertheless about to inflict a moral defeat on the world's most powerful country,  caught up in hostilities against one of the smallest countries on earth. The head of the  Cuban community in Grenada has instructions to receive overtures from any parliamentarian,  note his conditions and transmit them to Cuba. It must be borne in mind that a number of  Grenadian units are also still fighting, and that the treatment meted out to Cubans should  be the same as to Grenadians.
(13.6) Mr President, this situation, serious in itself, is still more serious by impli-  cation. As was pointed out at the beginning of this Conference, the world is faced with  very serious problems indeed. Today, however, as regards this particular problem, I ask  the countries gathered together here to show their solidarity with the people of Grenada,  whose right to independence and territorial integrity has been violated by the militaristic  government which represents the United States military machine - a violation of the very  principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
(14.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  difficulties in directing these'proceedings and make a few slight mistakes.
(14.2) I now give the floor to the delegate of the United States of America on a point of  order.  I thank the representative of Cuba. I hope you will forgive me if I have some initial
15.1 Mr PHILLIPS (United States of America) :  been employed at this Conference this morning. I think that if we abandon our  procedures this early in the Conference it bodes very ill indeed for the next six  weeks when we shall be meeting here in Paris. When one raises a point of order,  it is procedurally correct to interrupt the speaker who is speaking, because the  purpose of the point of order is precisely to try to determine whether what the  speaker is saying is germane to the agenda item or whether the form in which he  is making his comments is acceptable.
15.2 Clearly, I wanted to make the point that the delegate of Cuba was not ad-  dressing any item on our agenda this morning: he should consequently have been  interrupted and the matter handled quite differently. I apologize for bringing  this to your attention so early in your term as President, but feel compelled to  do so.
15.3 I, of course do ask for and insist upon a right of reply to what the del-  egate of Cuba has said. I can mention some facts about the situation in Grenada  at this moment, if I am-permitted by the Chair to do so. I would like to say, for  example, that the United States acceded to a formal request from the Organization  of Eastern Caribbean States to support and participate in the collective security  effort that those States are undertaking in pursuance of their charter to restore  peace and order in Grenada. Barbados and Jamaica, to which the request was also  made, have also responded favourably. Security forces from OECS Member States plus  the United States, Barbados and Jamaica make up the combined forces that is attempt-  ing to restore order in Grenada.
15.4 The United States and other participants in this collective security force  do not take this situation lightly. What we were faced with was an unprecedented  breakdown of public order of grave concern to the neighbouring countries in the  region. The United States has over a thousand citizens in Grenada whose lives were  Thank you, Mr President. I do have to object to the procedures that have
350    in serious danger. We are in close consultation with Grenada's Caribbean neighbours  and, as the situation deteriorated and culminated most recently in the barbaric  murder of Prime Minister Bishop and others in his entourage by members of the Army  whose chief visible act of government so €ar has been to declare a shoot-on-sight  curfew in that Caribbean country, Caribbean leaders expressed shock and disgust  at the unfolding events and this led to the intervention which is now taking p.lace.  As soon as order is restored it is the intention of the United States to withdraw  its forces from that is1an.d as expeditiously and quickly as possible. That is my  reply, Mr President, thank you.
(1 6.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  of the USSR.  I thank the delegate of the United States and I now give the floor to the delegate
(17.1) Mr KHILTCHEVSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr President, the Soviet delegation had requested the floor in connection with  today's business for the purpose of speaking on the question of approving nominations for  the vice-presidency of the Conference. We should like, however, to state our position as  regards the remarks made by the previous speaker, the delegate of the Uniteä States of  America.
(17.2) We are addressing the meeting in connection with extraordinary circumstances.  Yesterday, on the day of the opening of our Conference, one of the States taking part in  this session of the General Conference - namely the United States - committed an act of  direct and quite unprovoked aggression against a State that is a full and equal member of  the United Nations and of Unesco.
(17.3) Having unceremoniously flouted the principles of the United Nations Charter and the  elementary norms of international law, the United States Government is demonstrating its  total disregard for the world community, which is also represented in this forum in par-  ticular. This is fresh confirmation that in pursuing its imperial aims and seeking to im-  pose its diktat on other countries it relies on armed force alone. The United States'  invasion is a totally unjustified act of aggression, whatever the fig-leaves used in the  attempt to cover it up.
(18.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  this matter we shall stray too far from our agenda. Let us please continue with the matter  at hand, as otherwise we shall not have time to discuss our main business, which is essen-  tial for the work of the Conference. Would you please postpone your statements until the  preliminary procedures have been completed. Let us return once again to our agenda. I draw  your attention to document 22 C/2 which contains the recommendation of the Executive Board  regarding the establishment of five Programme Commissions and an Administrative Commission  for this session of the General Conference. Does the Conference agree with this recommen-  dation? I trust the head of the USSR delegation will permit me to remark that the matters  which are now being examined are not really points of order. They are simply dialogue and  discussion. We have not yet finished with our main discussions. Let us continue this meet-  ing as we began it and proceed with our work. I shall give the floor to all of you in due  course. The representative of Cuba has spoken and the United States representative has  replied. Let us allow the matter to rest there and proceed with our main work. I trust the  head of the delegation of the USSR will agree that we should continue our discussion of  the subject at hand. I shall give the floor to all those who wish to speak on that subject  once we have completed our procedure. If there are no objections to this proposal I shall  consider it accepted by the Conference.
(18.2) We must now return to our agenda and proceed with the matter at hand. In case I have  forgotten to congratulate those of you who have been elected Vice-presidents, please accept  my congratulations.  I hope the delegate of the USSR will forgive me for interrupting. If we go into  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES/  CONSTITUTION DES COMMISSIONS ET COMITES/  CONSTITUCION DE LAS COMISIONES Y LOS COMITES/  C03nAHME KOMklCCMm M KOMMTETOB/  &ic @E 4m$-r-I %K 4 )I . '&
(1 9.1 ) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  Committees. I would like to mention that under Rule 47 of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference, each Commission elects its Chairman. In accordance with the procedures  observed at previous sessions of the Conference, I shall suspend the plenary meeting and  call in this room, one after the other, the first meetings of the five Commissions of the  Conference as well as the Administrative Commission. There will be only one item on the  agenda of the meeting of each of these Commissions, namely the election of its Chairman.  I now suspend the third plenary meeting.  We now move on to another item, namely the establishment of the Commissions and  (The plenary meeting was suspended)
(19.2) I hereby declare open the first meeting of Commission I.
(19.3) I give the floor to the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
20. M. NDINGA OBA (Congo), président du. Comité des candidatures :  l'unanimité l'élection de M. Alberto Wagner de Reyna (Pérou) au poste de président  de la Commission I.  Monsieur le Président, le Comité des candidatures a décidé de recommander 2
(21.1) The PRESIDENT -(Translation from the Arabic):  unanimously elected Chairman of Commission I. I congratulate him upon his election.
(21.2) I declare the first meeting of Commission I adjourned and open the first meeting of  Commission II. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.  I believe you agree to this proposal. I therefore declare Mr Alberto Wagner de Reyna
22. M. NDINGA OBA (Congo), président du Comité des candidatures :  Monsieur le Président, le Comité a décidé à l'unanimité de recommander  L'électiondeM. TchavdarKuranov (Bulgarie) auposte deprésident dela CommissionII.  AíJ . .wL?JI .i+-iJ JsYi .*I F A +  &I i-& I 'GUI 'w JsYi '+I ,p, &í yr,y  . ci;- . +i '44, +"JJ
(23.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank and congratulate him.
(23.2) I declare the first meeting of Commission II adjourned and declare open the first  meeting of Commission III. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.  Since there are no comments I declare Mr Kuranov elected Chairman of Commission II.
24. M. NDINGA OBA (Congo), président du Comité des candidatures :  Monsieur le Président, le Comité a décidé à l'unanimité de recommander  l'élection de M. Erdal Inönü (Turquie) au poste de président de la CommissionIII.
(25.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Turkish delegation should be elected Chairman. Since you agree to this proposal - there  have been no comments - I declare Mr Inönü elected Chairman of Commission III. I congratu-  late him on his election.
(25.2) The first meeting of Commission III is adjourned. I now declare open the first meet-  ing of Commission IV. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.  You haveheardthe recommendation of the Nominations Committee that Mr Inönü of the
26. M. NDINGA OBA (Congo), président du Comité des candidatures :  l'élection de Mme Hanne Sgíndergaard, de la délégation du Danemark, au poste de  président de la Commission IV.  Monsieur le Président, le Comité a décidé à l'unanimité de recommander
(27.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Mrs Hanne Sdndergaard of the Danish delegation should be elected Chairman of Commiscion IV.  Since you agree to this proposal, I hereby declare Mrs Hanne Sdndergaard elected Chairman  of Commission IV. I congratulate her.
(27.2) I declare the first meeting of Commission IV adjourned and open the first meeting  of Commission V. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.  You have heard the recommendation of the Chairman of the Nominations Committee that
28. M. NDINGA OBA (Congo), président du Comité des candidatures :  l'élection de M. iba Der Thiam, chef de la délégation du Sénégal, au poste de pré-  sident de la Commission V.  Monsieur le Président, le Comité a décidé à l'unanimité de recommander
(29.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  You have heard the recommendation of the Nominations Committee that Mr Iba Der Thiam  of the delegation of Senegal should be elected Chairman of Commission V. Do you agree to  this proposal? Since you agree, I declare Mr Iba Der Thiam elected Chairman of Commission V  and congratulate him on his election.
(29.2) I declare the first meeting of Commission V adjourned and open the first meeting of  the Administrative Commission. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Nominations  Committee.
30. M. NDINGA OBA (Congo), président du Comité des candidatures :  l'élection de M. Azzedine Guellouz, chef adjoint de la délégation de la Tunisie,  au poste de président de la Commission administrative.  Monsieur le Président, le Comité a décidé à l'unanimité de recommander
(31.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Guellouz, of the Tunisian delegation, be elected Chairman of the Administrative Commission.  Do you agree to -this? Thank you. I declare Mr Guellouz elected Chairman of the Administrat-  ive Commission and congratulate him.
(31.2) I declare the first meeting of the Administrative Commission adjourned.  You have heard the recommendation of the Nominations Committee that Mr Azzedine  (The plenary meeting was resumed)
(31.3) We shall now return immediately to the third plenary meeting. I would like to remind  you that the Chairmen of the Credentials Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Head-  quarters Committee have already been elected. All that remains is for us to elect the  Chairman of the Legal Committee in order to complete the formation of the General Committee  of the General Conference. I therefore give the floor to the Secretary of the General Con-  ference, who will make a statement regarding the election of the Legal Committee.
32. The SECRETARY:  Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, the Legal Committee will now meet in  Room VI to elect its Chairman. May I remind you that the following countries were
354    elected members of the Legal Committee at the twenty-first session of the General  Conference: Argentina, Canada, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, El Salvador, Ghana,  Nepal, Nigeria, Netherlands, Islamic Republic of Iran, Socialist People's Libyan  Arab Jamahiriya, Sweden, .Switzerland, Togo, Tunisia, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela and Yemen. Thank you,  Mr President.
(33.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  have been mentioned please send a representative to the Legal Committee which will meet in  Room VI.
(33.2) I now give the floor to the Chairman of the Nominations Committee, who will submit  a proposal regarding the number of vice-chairmen in the commissions and committees of the  Conference .  Thank you Mr Secretary of the General Conference. Will the delegations whose names
34. M. NDINGA OBA (Congo), président du Comité des candidatures :  Monsieur le Président, en vue d'assurer une meilleure répartition géogra-  phique au sein des bureaux des commissions, le Comité des candidatures a adopté
2 l'unanimité la proposition du Directeur gé/néral figurant dans le document 22 C/  NOM.l et visant a ce que le nombre des vice-présidents de chacune des cinq commis-  sions du Programe, de la Commission administrative et du Comité des candidatures  soit porté de 3 2 4. A cet effet, le Comité recommande de suspendre l'application  de l'article 47.1 du Reglement intérieur de la Conférence générale, conformément  aux dispositions de l'article 108 de ce Règlement. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le  Président.
(35.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  proposal approved.
(35.2) I must thank Mr Ndinga Oba, Chairman of the Nominations Committee, as well as the  members of the Committee, for the excellent report they have presented and the admirable  work they have done.  I believe you agree to this proposal? As I see no objections. I shall consider the  ADMISSION OF THE NETHERLANDS ANTILLES AS ASSOCIATE MEMBER TO THE ORGANIZATION/  ADMISSION DES ANTILLES NEERLANDAISES COMME MEMBRE ASSOCIE DE L'ORGANISATION/  ADMISION DE LAS ANTILLAS NEERLANDESAS COMO MIEMBRO ASOCIADO DE LA ORGANIZACION/  llPMHRTME HMAEPJIAHACKMX AHTBJIbCKklX OCTPOBOB B YJIEHH - COTPYDHMKM OPïAHM3AuBM/  :&jl Y7  + '&d&l &b'I ,2 JA #i J L g l  JJ+ 3.0 17 UI J i  VpI ++I 9 3 1   >dl u iiYl 'LJcJI . 'LalSJl &lJ91 'as. cljLl $& -1 I& c>3f -"s ''U  . pLdi
(36.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  ing the admission of the Netherlands Antilles as Associate Member to the Organization.  This item was included in response to a proposai from the Netherlands. I now give the floor  to the Director-General.  I call upon this distinguished conference to examine item 66 of the agenda regard-
37.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :  de l'article 11.3 de l'Acte constitutif, "les territoires ou groupes de territoires  qui n'assument pas eux-mêmes la responsabilité de la conduite de leurs relations  extérieures peuvent être admis come Membres associés par la Conférence générale
2 la majorité des deux tiers des membres présents et votants, si cette admission  a été demandée, pour le compte de chacun de ces territoires ou groupes de terri-  toires, par 1'Etat membre ou l'autorité, quelle qu'elle soit, qui assume la res-  ponsabilité de la conduite de ses relations extérieures". Cet article dispose en  outre que la nature et l'étendue des droits et des obligations desMembres associés  sont déterminées par la Conférence générale, ce qu'elle a du reste déja fait en
1951, lors de sa sixième session.  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Pxésident. Je voudrais rappeler qu'aux termes
37.2 Monsieur le Président, nous avons reçu une demande des Pays-Bas en vue de  l'admission des Antilles néerlandaises comme Membre associé de l'Organisation, de-  Rande fondée sur les dispositions de cet article. Vous trouverez cette demande  dans le document 22 C/108. C'est par un télégramme, qui m'a été adressé le 14 juil-  let 1983, qu'elle a été formulée. Voici le texte de ce télégramme : "AU nom du  gouvernement du royaume des Pays-Bas, l'ai l'honneur de demander, conformément a  l'article 10 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale, l'inscription du  point suivant 2 l'ordre du jour de la vingt-deuxième session de la Conférence gé-  nérale : "Admission des Antilles néerlandaises come Membre associé de l'organisa-  tion". Ce point a été inscrit à l'ordre du jour, et il s'agit maintenant pour la  Conférence générale de l'examiner et de prendre une décision.
31.3 Monsieur le Président, comme il est indiqué dans le document 22 C/108,"aux  termes de la Charte adoptée en 1954, le royaume des Pays-Bas est composé de deux  territoires : les Pays-Bas, situés en Europe, et les Antilles néerlandaises, si-  tuées dans la région des Caraïbes. Ces deux territoires sont membres égaux et à  part entiëre du même Etat souverain. Les Antilles néerlandaises jouissent donc  d'une pleine autonomie gouvernementale." Le gouvernement des Antilles néerlandaises  a exprimé le souhait d'être associé aux activités de l'organisation et surtout 2  celles qu'elle mène dans la région de l'Amérique latine et des Caraïbes, où se  trouvent les Antilles néerlandaises.
37.4 Je désire ajouter, Monsieur le Président,-que si la Conférence générale dé-  cide d'admettre les Antilles néerlandaises comme Membre associé, il lui faidra en-  suite se prononcer sur une autre question - celle de la participation des Antilles  néerlandaises aux activités du groupe régional de l'Amérique latine etdes Caraïbes,  quirelève d'une autre procédure. Au stade actuel, il lui est seulement demandé de  se prononcer sur l'admission des Antilles néerlandaises et tant que Membre associé  de l'Organisation. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
(38.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Netherlands.  I thank the Director-Generai and give the floor to the representative of the
39.1 Mr KRAKK (Netherlands) :  Let me first congratulate you, Mr President, on your election.
39.2 Thank you for giving me the opportunity to say a few words to item 66, pro-  posing the admission of the Netherlands Antilles as an Associate Member of Unesco.  Mr President, since 15 December 1954 the Netherlands Antilles have been fully self-  governing in all internal matters. According to the Charter of the Kingdom of the  Netherlands, formal responsibility for the foreign policy of both partners, that  is to say the Netherlands in Europe and the Netherlands Antilles in the Caribbean,  rests with the Kingdom. However, on the basis of mutual respect and full consul-  tation, the Antilles shape in practice their own foreign relations, specifically  with the countries of the region. They are part of the Caribbean and of Latin  America and - let me say-an active member of that region. It is therefore at the  request of the Government of the Netherlands Antilles that the Government of the  Kingdom of the Netherlands has proposed that the twenty-second session of the  General Conference admit the Netherlands Antilles as an Associate Member of Unesco.
39.3 The Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands is making this application  in accordance with Article 11.3 of the Constitution, as the responsible Member  State as is required by Rule 92.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Conference.
39.4 Mr President, the Netherlands Antilles is a country with a highly developed  educational structure, and its university has numerous contacts in both the social
356    and natural sciences with universities in other parts of the region. My delegation  is pleased to mention that the Government of the Netherlands Antilles is fully  aware of its cultural identity and of its cultural links with neighbouring coun-  tries. Situated geographically on centuries-old trade routes, it has a deep under-  standing of what communication means. I trust that Unesco will be able to provide  assistance and a network of contacts in its fields of competence that will be of  great importance to the Government of the Netherlands Antilles in implementing  its educational and cultural policies.
39.5 Mr President, I am confident that if accepted into the Unesco family, the  Netherlands Antilles will further enrich this Organization. On behalf of the  Government of the Kingdom, I wish to move formally that the Netherlands Antilles  be admitted to Associate Membership of Unesco; I do so with great pleasure, know-  ing that all citizens in both parts of the Kingdom will applaud this admission  wholeheartedly and with deep satisfaction. Thank you, Mr President.
(40.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  the head of the Haitian delegation.  I thank the representative of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and give the floor to
41. M. GUERRIER (Haïti) :  Monsieur le Président, je vous remercie. Comme l'orateur qui m'a précédé,  je commencerai par vous présenter mes plus vives félicitations pour votre élec-  tion à la présidence de la vingt-deuxième session de la Conférence générale de  l'Unesco. Mon intervention sera très brève. Je voudrais simplement appuyer la de-  mande formulée par le représentant des Pays-Bas et tendant à faire des Antilles  néerlandaises un Membre associé de notre Organisation. Je vous remercie, Monsieur  le Président.
(42.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  the delegation of Dominica.  I thank the head of the Haitian delegation and now give the floor to the head of
43.1 Mr MAYNARD (Dominica) :  Mr President, I would like, as Chairman of the English-speaking Caribbean  subgroup, to endorse the proposal for the admission of the Netherlands Antilles  as an Associate Member of this Organization. Yesterday afternoon, as we watched  the audio-visual presentation on Unesco, what struck me was that the lofty ideals  could only effectively be implemented to the extent that there was effective par-  ticipation of all the countries so entitled to the benefits of membership of  Unesco. We in Dominica have had very good contact with the Netherlands Antilles  over a long period of time: many of our people from that part of the Caribbean in  fact live in the Netherlands Antilles; there have been some cultural and other  contacts: and we have no doubt that the participation of the Netherlands Antilles  will enhance the activities of Unesco.
43.2 May I add, Mr President, that membership of the Organization has nothing to  do with size, geography, or any of the other particular characteristics which dis-  tinguish countries from each other. What counts is whether the country has the  ability to participate. I would therefore like on behalf of the English-speaking  Caribbean subgroup to endorse fully the request for admission of the Netherlands  Antilles as an Associate Member.
43.3 Before I conclude, Mr President, I should like to join in the congratulations  on your election, and to promise you our full co-operation. Thank you.
(44.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  the representative of Venezuela.  Thank you, and thank you for your kind congratulations. I now give the floor to
(45.) Mr PLANCHART (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, I welcome the proposal by the Netherlands to include the Netherlands  Antilles in this community of fellow States. Venezuela considers that the time has come  to accept by acclamation the admission of a neighbour so dear to us and held in such high  esteem, and whose admission we consider to be very important and useful to the Latin  American and Caribbean group. Thank you, Mr President.
(46.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  of India.  I thank the representative of Venezuela. I now give the floor to the representative
47.1 Mr KAUL (India) :  Antilles as an Associate Member of Unesco, I should like to express the hope that  in the not too distant future we shall have the pleasure of welcoming the Netherlands  Antilles as a full member on itsattainment of full sovereignty and independence.
47.2 I should like to take this opportunity, Mr President, of expressing our con-  gratulations to you on your election, because like your predecessor you represent  not only an important country but also a non-aligned country. We are proud that  two successive Presidents of the General Conference have come from the non-aligned  world. Thank you, Mr President.  Thank you, Mr President. While welcoming the proposal to admit the Netherlands
(48.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  give the floor to the head of the delegation of the Dominican Republic.  I thank the representative of India. Thank you for your kind congratulations. I now
(49.) Mrs PRATS DE PEREZ (Dominican Republic) (Translation from the Spanish):  On behalf ofthe Dominican Republic which, as a mernber of the Spanish-speaking com-  munity of the Caribbean, firmly believes in the admission of new countries, since it is  this that gives reality, force and hope to our Organization, I wish to express our satis-  faction at the entry of the Netherlands Antilles as an Associate Member of Unesco. The  representative of Venezuela, who requested that the admission of the Netherlands Antilles  should be approved by acclamation, enjoys the distinction of being a compatriot of the  Liberator Simón Bollvar, whose centenary is being celebrated this year throughout the  world, and who actually lived for some time in the West Indies and is a symbol of the  integration which we all need and seek. Thus, transcending language barriers, which is  another way of achieving real integration, I welcome you on behalf of my country.
(50. ) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  the head of the delegation of Honduras.  I thank the head of the delegation of the Dominican Republic and give the floor to
(51.) Mrs Alma RODAS DE FIALLOS (Honduras) (Translation from the Spanish):  be left unheard on this occasion, especially in respect of a nation which forms part of  the Caribbean group of countries, with which.we have fraternal relationships because we  feel that they, like us, the Central American countries, have the same needs and are  engaqed in a joint struggle to solve the same problems. The Central American countries,  especially Honduras, heartily welcome the admission of the Netherlands Antilles into the  concert of nations that make up the great family of Unesco. We endorse the statement by  the delegate of Dominica, and in association with all the peoples of the Caribbean we  today celebrate the arrival of our sister country, the Netherlands Antilles, and welcome  her to Unesco. I thank you.  Thank you, Mr President. It would not be right for the voice of Central America to
(52.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  the Colombian delegation.  I thank the head of the delegation of Honduras and give the floor to the head of
(53.) Mr ESCOBAR NAVIA (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish) :  After adding the voice of my country to those who have already expressed their  satisfaction at your election to the Presidency, I wish, with other delegations, to express  our pleasure at the admission of a new Caribbean country, the Netherlands Antilles.  Colombia considers it vital that the entire Caribbean region should join in the great  entreprise of co-operation for the development of education, science, technology and  culture in general, to which it is prepared to contribute, as it had the opportunity to  state at the recent meeting in Jamaica. We extend a welcome to the Netherlands Antilles,  and the rich culture it brings with it, without which ours would be the poorer. Thank you,  Mr President.
(54.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the head of the Colombian delegation.
(54.2) After these kind supportive statements I put the question to you, ladies and gentle-  men: do you agree to the admission of the Netherlands Antilles?
(54.31 I therefore declare the Netherlands Antilles admitted and would like, on your  behalf, to welcome it as an Associate Member of Unesco. I am confident that its admittance  will enrich our Organization with its experience, and that we shall benefit from its  expertise. I am now happy to invite the delegation of the Netherlands Antilles to take  its assigned seats, and I call upon the head of the delegation to come to the main rostrum  to place the flag and address the Conference.
55.1 Mr VEERIS (Netherlands Antilles):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, now that the Gen-  eral Conference has admitted the Netherlands Antilles to Associate Membership of  Unesco, it is my privilege to say a few words on behalf of the Government of my  country. I wish first to extend our sincere appreciation and thanks to the acting  head of the delegation of the Kingdom of the Netherlands for his kind words when  proposing the admission of the Netherlands Antilles as an Associate Member of  Unesco. I also wish to express my warm appreciation to all other distinguished  delegates to this Conference for their kind words and support.
55.2 Mr President, my Government considers this solemn moment of becoming an  Associate Member of this most prestigious world Organization of great importance  at the present stage of our national development. Permit me, in this light,  Mr President, to be more specific about our particular constitutional status  within the Kingdom of the Netherlands, our position in the region and the develop-  mental challenges we face.
55.3 Our country consists of six islands. Three of them, Aruba, Bonaire and  Curaçao, are close together some 30 kilometres north of the Venezuelan coast.  The common language spoken there is Papiamento, a creole developed by early  African, Portuguese and Spanish inhabitants. The other three islands, namely  St Maarten, Saba and St Eustatius, are located about 900 kilometres to the north-  east in the Caribbean Sea, not far from Puerto Rico. The vernacular of these three  islands is English. The official language of the Netherlands Antilles, though, is  still Dutch.
55.4 Our 250,000 inhabitants, as in most Caribbean island countries, are multi-  racial and multilingual. The largest concentration of the population lives on the  largest island, Curaçao, which has an area of 144 square kilometres and a popu-  lation of 160,000.
55.5 After their occupation by Spain in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries,  our islands were conquered by the Dutch during the first half of the seventeenth  century. It was not until 1845, however, that the six islands were constituted as  one administrative entity, known since 1951 under the present title of Netherlands  Antilles, with Curaçao as the seat of the Central Administration. In 1954, a  Kingdom Charter gave the islands full autonomy in all domestic affairs, sharing  foreign affairs and defence with the equal European partner, the Netherlands. This  full self-governing status through which the Netherlands Antilles acquired, among  others, full competence in the main fields of activity of Unesco was recognized  by the United Nations in 1955.
55.6 At present, Mr President, we have arrived at a very crucial stage in our  history, marked by a process of profound re-evaluation of the political structures  within the Kingdom and within our six-island country. At the same time we have to  deal with the repercussions of the world recession on our open and fragile economy,  rising unemployment and an unexceptable number of failures in our educational system.  In the Netherlands Antilles we are nevertheless determined to face these problems  and the challenges of preparing for our full independence by mobilizing all possible  national, regional and international resources.
55.7 In the specific fields of culture and education, long-term policy designs  and frameworks have been put to national discussion, involving the participation  of all relevant groups and institutions of the country in the formulation of new  national policies on culture and education. These policies will be strongly sup-  ported by the passing of a law in the very near future granting official status  to both native languages, Papiamento and English, alongside Dutch.
55.8 Mr President, we are fully aware that the only realistic chance of small,  vulnerable, political entities in the Caribbean to maintain a viable state of  sovereignty lies in regional co-operation and integration. We have therefore set  out to broaden and deepen our co-operation with the countries of the region. With  this in view we take part in most of the regional activities of Unesco, the Economic  Commission for Latin America (ECLA) and the Caribbean Development and Co-operation  Committee (CDCC). The Netherlands Antilles recently hosted a conference of the  Caribbean Council for Science and Technology, and Co-sponsored a regional workshop  of the CDCC on the removal of language barriers in the Caribbean. The co-ordination  of the follow-up of this regional workshop by the preparation and execution of  national workshop throughout the whole region is currently taking place under the  presidency of the Netherlands Antilles.
55.9 Mr President, from what has been mentioned about our regional involvement,  it may be noted that, although foreign affairs is a Kingdom matter, the Netherlands  Antilles enjoy authorization by the Kingdom to deal with specific international  affairs, especially those concerning our relations in the Caribbean and Latin  American region. It is this flexible stand of the Government of the Kingdom that  enables us to work out a systematic approach in developing our own international  identity and relations. In accordance with this policy the Netherlands Antilles  requested and acquired Associate Membership of the World Tourism Association (WTO)  in 1979, followed by full membership of the World Postal Union and of the World  Meteorological Organization, Latin American Region. In 1981 we became an Associate  Member of ECLA which led to Associated Membership of CDCC.
55.10 All this, Mr President, is proof of our will not to succumb to despair or  to the pressure of mounting national problems, but actively and creatively to  strive for national, regional and international co-operation and solidarity in  dealing with out developmental challenges.
55.11 Mr President, the Netherlands Antilles has attended all sessions of the  General Conference of Unesco since 1974, through representation in the delegation  of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. We are on our way to independence through a  process of careful preparation at the political, socio-economic and cultural  levels. The desire to play an active role, together with our experience of Unesco,  has led us to seek the ways and means of a more direct and autonomous participation  in the activities of the Organization, pending a decision concerning the moment  for full independence. Our desire has been realized today through your acceptance  of my country, the Netherlands Antilles, as an Associate Member.
55.12 Mr President, if it is true, and I am personally convinced it is, that the  essential dimension of development is cultural, then our direct participation in  Unesco will grant us the greatest confidence and security for the future of the  people of our country.
55.13 One of the most complex areas we will have to tackle forcefully in the near  future is our educational system, which, modelled on the European, Dutch system,  corresponds neither to the needs nor to the social, economic and cultural structure  of our Antillean-Caribbean society. In particular, the native languages have been  completely neglected. A 1976 report by Unesco pointed out very clearly the issues  and priorities for a constructive educational policy; I am pleased to announce  here today that the decision has been taken to introduce Papiamento as a subject  and as the language of instruction at the primary level in Curaçao.
55.14 Mr President, as we see, Unesco has already been assisting us in the process  of reviewing our educational system. We are eager to continue to receive this kind  of support and are ready to contribute whatever is of value to international and  regional co-operation for development.
55.15 Mr President, I am sure that the Netherlands Antilles will be able to offer  some assistance to other Member States. Considering our historical and cultural  ties with both the Latin American and the Caribbean countries - our neighbours -  and considering our geographical position between Dutch, English, French and  Spanish-speaking countries, the fact that most of our experts are multilingual,  together with the willingness of the Netherlands Antilles to intensify their  relations in the region, our country can and will play an important role in facili-  tating activities in several fields within the region. We have a network of good  air and marine transport besides modern radio-communication facilities which,  together with its location, offers the Netherlands Antilles exceptional potential,  even for hosting conferences such as those of Unesco.
55.16 Mr President, before I conclude, and in order to comply with the objectives  of our association, may I state that my Government would like my country to be  permitted to take part in Unesco activities as part of the Latin American and  Caribbean region.
55.17 Finally, may I express my sincere hope that the discussions in the coming  weeks will contribute towards a successful outcome of this Conference. My delegation  is looking forward to fruitful co-operation with all of you, in pursuit of this  final goal. Thank you, Mr President.
(56.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  congratulate him once again on the admission of the Netherlands Antilles to Unesco. I also  thank him €or his congratulations.  I thank the head of the delegation of the Netherlands Antilles for his address and
361    ADMISSION TO THE TWENTY-SECOND SESSION OF OBSERVERS FROM INTERNATIONAL  NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS/  ADMISSION A LA VINGT-DEUXIEME SESSION DE LA CONFERENCE GENERALE D'OBSERVATEURS  D'ORGANISATIONS INTERNATIONALES NON GOUVERNEMENTALES/  ADMISION A LA 22a. REUNION DE OBSERVADORES DE ORGANIZACIONES INTERNACIONALES  NO GUBERNAMENTALES/  AOiIYCK HABJIKIaATEJIEm OT MEmYHAPOAHbIX HEiIPFBBTEnbCTBEHHhIX OPI'AHA3~BR  HA ABMuATb BTOPYKI CECCMKI/  \ p U l  -w +I> '&U1 id>-Ji dyad .&*I 'dsdi G U I  + &I* J+
(57.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  We now move on to item 7 of the agenda regarding the admission of observers from  international non-governmental organizations to the twenty-second session of the General  Conference, on the basis of the recommendations of the Executive Board and the relevant  document, namely document 22 C/10.
(57.2) I give the floor to the Chairman of the Executive Board.
(58.1) Mr MASSUH (Argentina), Chairman of the Executive Board (TranslationfromtheSpanish):  Executive Board, on your election as President of this Conference. I also wish to congratu-  late the new Associate Member, the Netherlands Antilles, which has just joined the  Organization.
(58.2) It is my task now, Mr President, to comply with the provisions of Article IV, para-  graph 13 of the Constitution, and of Article 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference, in respect of requests from international non-governmental organizations other  than those in categories A and B wishing to send observers to the twenty-second session of  the General Conference.  Thank you, Mr President. First of all I wish to congratulate you, on behalf of the
(58.3) I should like to recall, Mr President, that the General Conference, in welcoming a  recommendation made by the Executive Board at its 88th session, decided for the first time  at its nineteenth session to admit as observers representatives of international non-  governmental organizations in category C.
(58.4) The Executive Board at its 117th session examined various requests and decided to  recommendthattheConference admitas observersthe representativesofthe following international  non-governmentalorganizations incategory Cand authorize their representatives to participate  as requested by those organizations, in tne discussion of major programmes falling within  their fields of competence: Lions International., authorized to participate in the discus-  sion of Major Programme X; World Press Freedom Committee, which wishes to participate in  the discussion of Major Programme III; and International Radio and Television University,  which has expressed the wish to participate in the discussion of Major Programmes III  and VII.
(5ß.5) On behalf of the Executive Board I submit this recommendation, which appears in  document 22 C/10, to the General Conference: Thank you, Mr President.
(59.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  clarity and precision of his presentation of this item.
(59.2) We can now vote, if you so wish, on the Executive Board's recommendation contained  in paragraph 8 of document 22 C/10. I would like to remind you that, according to the pro-  visions of Rule 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, the agreement of  two-thirds of the members is required for the recommendation to be approved. Does any del-  egation wish to call for a formal vote on the matter? Since no one has requested the floor,  I declare the recommendation approved.
(59.3) Finally, before concluding this meeting, I recall that the head of the delegation  of the USSR requested the right of reply. I invite the head of the USSR delegation to  proceed, should he still desire to do so, but would ask him to take the time factor into  account. I give him a short time for this purpose and I will also give the head of the  United States delegation an equal amount of time if he should wish to deliver a rejoinder,  thereby exhausting the right of reply on this matter as regards this meeting. Does the  delegate of the USSR still wish to exercise this right?  I thank the Chairman of the Executive Board for his kind words to me and for the
(60.) Mr KHILCHEVSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr President, in view of your pressing appeal I shall not continue my statement now,  since most of what we considered needed saying we have said. However, the Soviet delegation  reserves the right to revert to this matter in the subsequent debate. I thank you.
(61 .l) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :
(61.2) Ladies and gentlemen, we have now completed our agenda for this morning. The meeting  is adjourned.  I thank the delegate of the USSR.  The meeting rose at 12.05 p.m.  La séance est levée à 12 h.05.  Se levanta la sesión a las 12.05