Second plenary meeting
25 October 1983 at 3.10 p.m.  President: Mr MARGAN (Yugoslavia)  Deuxième séance plénière
25 OKTR6pR 1983 r. B 15.10  npencenaTenb: r-H MAPFAH (Drocnamx)
333    PRESENTATION OF AN AUDIO-VISUAL PROGRANME ABOUT UNESCO/  PRESENTATION D'UN PROGRAMME AUDIOVISUEL SUR L'UNESCO/  PRESENTACION DEL PROGRAMA AUDIOVISUAL SOBRE LA UNESCO/  AEMOHCTPAJJMR AYnBOBM3YAJIhHbN MATEPMAJIOB O rOHECKO/ ++I creo, &y /  $$kkxrB@x~HR@!JB!%y Eil
1.1 Mr Ivo MARGAN (Yugoslavia), Temporary President:  meeting.
1.2 Before proceeding with our business, I should like to invite you to watch a  short audio-visual presentation about Unesco, prepared by the Office of Public  Information.  Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I declare open the second plenary  (A tape/slide programme was presented)  FORMAL WELCOMING OF SAINT VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES AND OF FIJI AS NEW MEMBER  STATES OF UNESCO  ACCUEIL SOLENNEL DE SAINT-VINCENT-ET-GRENADINES ET DE FIDJI, NOUVEAUX ETATS  MEMBRES DE L'UNESCO  SOLEMNE BIENVENIDA A SAN VICENTE Y LAS GRANADINAS Y A FIJI COMO NUEVOS  ESTADOS MIEMBROS DE LA UNESCO  TOPTECTBEHHHn iiPMEM B iûHECKO ABYX HOBbIX rOCYnAPCTB-WIEHOB CEH-BMHCEHTA M TPEHAHMH  M oiIniKM  ++i 'i+ J i  d3 (J+'J+>3ru;4&L" CFJS'J pLM=,l+ c-91  E a k3& Z % ~ ~ ~  %$k ii4 J $44 u B%& %&& Z 2H R %ia E El
2.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I now have a happy task: that of welcoming into our  Unesco family two new Member States which have joined the Organization since the  fourth extraordinary session of the General Conference. The two countries con-  cerned are Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, which became a member of the Organi-  zation on 15 February 1983; and Fiji, which joined Unesco on 14 July 1983.
2.2 I now have the pleasure to announce the ceremony of flag hoisting. May I  invite the head of each delegation in turn to come to the rostrum to place the  flag of his country. The delegation of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.  (Applaus e )
2.3 The delegation of Fiji.  (Applause)
2.4 Ladies and gentlemen, today Unesco numbers 160 Member States, and your  applause shows your pride and pleasure in these significant additions to the  Unesco family. We are thus moving ever closer to the true universality of our  Organization.  the admission as sovereign States of those countries which are not yet members.  I hope that before long we will be able to celebrate in this room  FIRST REPORT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE/  PREMIER RAPPORT DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES POWOIRS/  PRIMER INFORME DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION DE PODERES/  ~ E P B H ~  AOKJIAA KOMMTETA no IIPOBEPKE ~OJIHOMOW~/  &4xZ=wE&%---%k@++  ' J b 9 ~  &IdJi 4 .+-u j39i >+I
3. The PRESIDENT:  tials Committee. I give the floor to its Chairman, Mr Nadarajah Balasubramaniam.  Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now examine the first report of the Creden-
4.1 Mr BALASUBRAMANIAM (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Credentials Committee:  ing held on 25 October 1983, the General Conference of the United Nations Educa-  tional, Scientific and Cultural Organization, in accordance with Rules 25 and 27  of its Rules of Procedure, established for its twenty-second session a Credentials  Committee consisting of the following Member States: Algeria, China, Colombia,  Gabon, Jamaica, Sri Lanka, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United States of  America and Zambia.  Mr President, excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, at its first plenary meet-
4.2 The Credentials Committee held its first meeting at 12.15 p.m. on the same  day.
4.3 The Committee elected as its Chairman H.E. Mr Nadarajah Balasubramaniam (Sri  Lanka).
4.4 In accordance with Rules 22 and 28 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference, the Committee examined the credentials received by the Director-General.
4.5 At the Chairman's request, the Legal Adviser informed the Committee in this  connection that the criteria for deciding whether credentials were in due form  are laid down in Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference,  which provides that credentials of delegates and alternates shall be issued by the  head of the State, the head of the Government, the Minister of Foreign Affairs or  another Minister authorized by the Minister of Foreign Affairs to issue the  credentials.
4.6 The Secretariat then read out the names of Member States which had communi-  cated to it credentials which are in conformity with these formal requirements.  At the Chairman's request, the Secretariat read out to the Committee a letter  received by the Chairman of the Committee frpm the head of the delegation of the  Socialist Republic of Viet Nam. The text of the letter, the original of which is  in French, reads as follows:  Paris, 24 October 1983  Mr Chairman,  On behalf of the Delegation of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam  attending the twenty-second session of the General Conference of Unesco, I  feel it necessary to submit the following statement to the Credentials  Committee :  The Delegation of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, while expressing  its highest consideration to the twenty-second session of the General Con-  ference of Unesco, notes with great regret the presence of a delegation from  so-called 'Democratic Kampuchea', a genocidal regime which was overthrown by  the Kampuchean people in January 1979 and which, for that reason, is in no  way qualified to represent the people of Kampuchea.  It is public knowledge that from that date onwards, the Khmer people  has returned to a normal life and has had phenomenal success in rebuilding  and defending the country under the direction of the Government of the  People's Republic of Kampuchea, the sole legitimate and authentic represen-  tative of the Kampuchean people.  Over the last four years, the Non-Aligned Movement has taken informed  and wise decisions concerning the representation of Kampuchea. Last March,  the Heads of State and Government of ninety-nine countries attending the  Seventh Summit Conference of the Non-Aligned Movement in New Delhi did not  recognize the so-called 'coalition government' of Silhanouk and decided to  leave Kampuchea's seat empty.  The Delegation of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam considers that it  would be illogical to allow the so-called 'Delegation of Democratic Kampuchea'  to take its seat at the present session of the General Conference of Unesco,  the great majority of whose members belong to the Non-Aligned Movement.  As the Delegation of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam does not wish  to take up time which should be devoted to the work of our Conference and on  account of the respect due to the eminent delegations present, it is address-  ing this statement to the Credentials Committee so that the Committee may  take such action on it as it considers possible in accordance with its powers.  CÚ Huy Can  Head of the Delegation of the  Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
4.7 Another letter addressed to the Chairman of the Committee by the Head of the  Deleqation of Democratic Kampuchea was also read out to the Committee. The text  of this letter, the original of which is in French, is as follows:  Paris, 25 October 1983  Your Excellency ,  My Delegation has come to take part in the twenty-second session of the  General Conference of Unesco in the constructive spirit that my country has  always adopted. Its policy is accordingly to refrain from doing anything  which might interfere with the normal progress of our work.  Nevertheless, since the Vietnamese Government persists in raising the  question of the representativeness of Democratic Kampuchea, which is a  sovereign State, a member of the United Nations and of Unesco, my Delegation  finds itself compelled, to its great regret, to express in its turn grave  reservations regarding the participation of the Socialist Republic of Viet  Nam in the twenty-second session of the General Conference of Unesco. If  any country is entitled to express reservations about the participation of  the aggressor Viet Nam in our General Conference, it is indeed Democratic  Kampuchea, the victim of the aggression. Our Delegation is all the more  entitled to do so in that the war of aggression perpetrated by Viet Nam has  been condemned at the United Nations, while Viet Nam continues to defy United  Nations resolutions demanding the total withdrawal of its troops from  Kampuchea. It is all the more entitled to do so in that Viet Nam, in the  course of its war of aggression and genocide, is engaged in the merciless and  systematic destruction of the Khmer culture and civilization with a view to  expunging Kampuchea's national identity for the ultimate purpose of annexing  that country and incorporating it, with Laos, into a greater Viet Nam.  In consequence, Viet Nam cannot make a sound contribution to the work  of our General Conference.  The administration established in Phnom Penh by the Vietnamese occupy-  ing forces is but the shadow of those forces. It represents nobody. The  Socialist Republic of Viet Nam is using it as a screen at the international  level in an attempt to secure acceptance of its aggression, as a fait accompli.  This year, at the United Nations, the credentials of Democratic Kampuchea  were accepted without a vote by the 38th session of the General Assembly on
20 October 1983.  My Delegation requests you to bring these reservations regarding the  participation of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam in the twenty-second  session of the General Conference of Unesco to the notice of all the members  of the Credentials Committee for consideration during the Committee's dis-  cussions. It also requests you to have these reservations recorded in the  official documents of the General Conference and to bring them to the atten-  tion of all the delegations.  Please accept, Your Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration.  For the Delegation of Democratic Kampuchea,  Keat Chhon  Head of the Delegation
4.8 Speaking on behalf of the Arab group, the delegate of Algeria expressed  reservations over the credentials submitted by the Delegation of Israel. In this  connection, he remarked that Israel has systematically refused to respond to or  implement the resolutions adopted by the United Nations General Assembly and also  the decisions of the Unesco Executive Board relating to the occupied territories.  The delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics associated himself with  these reservations. In answer to a question from the delegate of Algeria, the  Secretariat informed the Committee that the credentials submitted in respect of  the Delegation of Israel contained no indication as to the place where they were  signed. It was added, however, that the credentials which were signed by the  Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Israel had been transmitted to  the Secretariat by the Permanent Delegate of Israel under cover of an accompanying  letter, dated in Paris.
4.9 The delegate of the United States of America as well as the delegate of  Colombia suggested that the Committee should avoid making any political apprecia-  tion which would complicate its work. In the view of these delegates, the Commit-  tee should limit itself to examination of whether or not credentials submitted in  respect of delegations complied with the formal requirements specified in the appli-  cable provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference.
4.10 The delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics objected to what he  considered to be slanderous allegations contained in the letter of Democratic  Kampuchea which had already been referred to. He said that the Government of the  People's Republic of Kampuchea is the only government that is exercising authority  in the territory, and therefore it was logical for that government to represent the  country in question at Unesco. The delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics also referred to the improvement in the economic, cultural, educational and  social field which the Government of the People's Republic of Kampuchea has made  since it came to power.
4.11 The delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics also observed that  the Delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany included a person who is resi-  dent in West Berlin. He stated that the inclusion of this person in that celega-  tion constituted a non-respect for the Quadripartite Agreement of 1971 concerning  West Berlin. The delegate of the United States of America, however, disagreed  with this view. She stated in this connection that the Quadripartite Agreement  of 1971 contains a provision that no objections would be made to the representation  of West Berlin by the Federal Republic of Germany in international organizations or  to the inclusion of persons with permanent residence in West Berlin in delegations  of the Federal Republic of Germany.
4.12 The delegate of China stated that it was unreasonable for the USSR to object  to the credentials of the Delegation of Democratic Kampuchea which is an indepen-  dent non-aligned country recognized both by the United Nations and Unesco. Refer-  ring to the fact that the credentials of the Delegation of Democratic Kampuchea  were accepted by the United Nations General Assembly at its current 38th session,  the delegate of China declared that objection to the credentials submitted to  Unesco by Democratic Kampuchea would be tantamount to interference with the terri-  torial integrity of that country. He recalled that foreign troops still occupied  the territory of Democratic Kampuchea in s6ite of resolutions of the United Nations  General Assembly calling for their withdrawal. In a concluding remark, the dele-  gate of China informed the Committee that the fact that the Delegation of Afghanistan  is participating in the work of the General Conference does not mean China's indif-  ference to the situation in Afghanistan which is occupied by foreign troops.
4.13 On the credentials of Afghanistan, the delegate of the USSR expressed the  hope that nothing will be done by the General Conference which might adversely  affect the ongoing negotiations for a return to normalcy in that country. The  delegate of the USSR also expressed reservations about the credentials submitted  for the Delegation of Chile. To a question from the delegate of Jamaica, the  Secretariat informed the Committee that the credentials of Grenada were signed on
10 October 1983 by Mr Unison Whiteman, Minister of Foreign Affairs, and that the  instrument had been communicated to the Secretariat under cover of a letter dated
12 October 1983.
4.14 Observing that the credentials of Israel were not stated to have been signed  in Jerusalem, the delegate of Gabon proposed that all credentials which met with  the formal requirements laid down by the Rules of Procedure of the General Confer-  ence should be accepted.
4.15 Subject to what has already been stated concerning the credentials of certain  Member States, the Committee decided that the delegations of the following Member  States were duly accredited, in conformity with Rule 2 2  of the Rules of Procedure  of the General Conference, by documents issued by the head of the State, the head  of the Government, the Minister of Foreign Affairs or another Minister authorized  to issue credentials by the Minister of Foreign Affairs: Afghanistan, Algeria,  Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, Bahamas, Bahrain, Barbados, Belize, Benin,  Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Congo,  Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic People's Republic  of Korea, Denmark, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia,  Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Germany (Federal  Republic of), Greece, Grenada, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary,  Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Islamic Republic of Iran, Israel, Italy,  Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia,  Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritania, Mexico, Monaco,  Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,  Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Romania,  Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe,  Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland,  Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Togabo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,  Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United  Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic  of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen,  Yugoslavia and Zimbabwe.
4.16 The Committee recommends that the delegations of the above States be allowed  to take part in the work of the General Conference at its twenty-second session.
4.17 The Committee informs the General Conference that formal credentials were  also submitted on behalf of the Holy See and proposes that they be accepted.  Furthermore the Committee wishes to inform the General Conference that Saint  Christopher-Nevis, which is not a Member State of Unesco, has also submitted  formal credentials.
4.18 The delegations of the following States have submitted credentials in the  form of telegrams, letters or other documents issued by a Minister other than a  Minister of Foreign Affairs and not so authorized by the latter, by the head of a  diplomatic mission, by a permanent delegate to Unesco, or by a senior official of  the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Albania, Argentina, Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium,  Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Democratic Yemen, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ghana,  Guatemala, Guinea, Kenya, Mali, Mauritius, Mozambique, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,  Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Tonga, United States  of America, Zaire and Zambia.
4.19 The Committee proposes that these documents be accepted as the provisional  credentials of the delegations of the above Member States, subject to later presen-  tation of credentials in due form, and that in the meanwhile these delegations be  allowed to take part in the work of the twenty-second session of the General  Conference.
4.20 The Committee noted that a few Member States had not submitted credentials  for their delegations. It decided to authorize its Chairman to report directly to  the General Conference on any credentials which might be submitted before it met  again, on the understanding that the Chairman might convene the Committee when he  considered it necessary.
4.21 Thank you, Mr President.
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  work accomplished. Does anyone wish to speak? If not, I take it that you wish to  approve the first report of the Credentials Committee.  I thank the Credentials Committee, and its Chairman in particular, for the
5.2 It is so decided.  STATEMENT BY THE TEMPORARY PRESIDENT CONCERNING ARREARS OF CONTRIBUTIONS/  ARRIERES DE CONTRIBUTIONS : DECLARATION DU PRESIDENT PROVISOIRE/  DECLARACION DEL PRESIDENTE PROVISIONAL RELATIVA A LAS CONTRIBUCIONES ATRASADAS!
3MBJlEHME BPEMEHHOrO iiPEACEAATEJIR OTHOCMTEnbHO 3AAOJIXEHHOCTM II0 BbIIIJlATE B3HOCOB/
6.1 The PRESIDENT:  arrears of the contributions and their effect on the voting rights of Member  States at the present session of the General Conference. The document for this  item is 22 C/37.  Ladies and gentlemen, my next duty is to inform the Conference on the
6.2 In Article IV, paragraph 8(b) of the Constitution, the right to vote is  made conditional upon the payment by Member States of their financial contribu-  tions. Article IV, paragraph 8(b) reads as follows: 'A Member State shall have  no vote in the General Conference if the total amount of contributions due from  it exceeds the total amount of contributions payable by it for the current year  and the immediately preceding calendar year.
6.3 At the present time, the provisions of this article will be applicable to  six Member States, since the amount of their arrears exceeds the amount of contri-  butions due for the current financial period. These States are: Chad, Comoros,  Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guinea-Bissau and Paraguay. I have been informed  by the Director-General that Sao Tome and Principe, Samoa, Sierra Leone and Zaire  have effected the relevant payments and should therefore be deleted from the list  of Member States currently in arrears given in document 22 C/37.
6.4 On the other hand, paragraph 8(c) of Article IV of the Constitution provides  that 'the General Conference may nevertheless permit such a Member State to vote,  if it is satisfied that failure to pay is due to conditions beyond the control of  the Member Nation'.
6.5 In accordance with Rule 79, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference, the Executive Board at its 117th session examined the communi-  cations received from Chad., the Dominican Republic and Paraguay and adopted a  recommendation to the General Conference that these Member States be authorized to  participate in the voting at this twenty-second session.
6.6 If there are no objections, this recommendation is adopted, namely that Chad,  the Dominican Republic and Paraguay be authorized to participate in the voting at  this session.
6.7 It is so decided.
6.8 Furthermore, I should like to inform you that, in my capacity as Temporary  President of the General Conference, I have received from the Director-General a  communication emanating from Guinea-Bissau,'the text of which is reproduced in an  annex to document 22 C/37, invoking the relevant provisions of the Constitution.
6.9 Is it your wish that this State should also be permitted to vote in accordance  with paragraph 8(c) of Article IV of the Constitution?
6.10 I see no objections: it is so decided.  ADOPTION OF THE AGENDAI ADOPTION DE L'ORDRE DU JOUR/ APROBACION DEL ORDEN DEL DIA/  YTBEPXZEHME IIOBECTKM. AHFI/ J k g i  JS+ A-.(/ j&s$xE
7. The PRESIDENT:  is contained in document 22 C/l dated 26 July 1983, which is before you. I now  give the floor to H.E. Ambassador Massuh, Chairman of the Executive Board, who  will inform you of the Board's consideration of the provisional agenda. Mr Chair-  man, you have the floor.  We shall now move on to the adoption of the agenda. The provisional agenda
(8.1) M. MASCUH (Argentine), président du Conseil exécutif (traduit de l'espagnol) :  tutif, il appartient au Conseil exécutif de soumettre à la Conférence générale l'ordre  du jour provisoire de ses réunions. Pour cette vingt-deuxième session ordinaire, le  Conseil executif a approuvé l'ordre du jour provisoire 3 sa 116e session. Ensuite, 2 sa
117e session, il a pris note de trois nouveaux points que le Directeur générai y avait  inclus en vertu des dispositions de l'article 9 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence  générale, et il les a répartis, pour examen, entre les divers organes de la Conférence.
(8.21 Le document 22 C/l, qui a été distribué aux Etats membres le 26 juillet, contient  l'ordre du jour provisoire de la présente session. Merci, Monsj-eur le Président.  Conformément a l'alinéa (a) du paragraphe 5 de l'article V de notre Acte consti-
9.1 The PRESIDENT:  the subject? No. Then I take it that the Conference wishes to adopt the agenda,  as set out in document 22 C/i.
9.2 The agenda is adopted.
9.3 I wish now, ladies and gentlemen, to close this plenary meeting, to enable  the heads of delegations to attend the first meeting of the Nominations Committee.  This Committee will prepare the lists of nominations for membership of the General  Committee, including the Chairmen of the respective Commissions and other organs.  I thank the Chairman of the Executive Board. Does anyone wish to speak on
9.4 I recall that, in accordance with Rule 29 of the Rules of Procedure, the  Nominations Committee shall consist of the heads of all delegations entitled to  vote in the Conference, The head of a delegation may designate another member of  his delegation to vote in his place. The representative of each delegation on the  Committee may be assisted by another member of his delegation. Rule 29 also states  that the Committee shall elect its own Chairman, The Nominations Committee will  meet in Room IV. May I wish it every success in its deliberations.
9.5 We shall meet again in this room tomorrow morning at 10 a.m., to take up the  next item on our agenda, item 5, which concerns the establishment of the General  Committee. I declare the meeting closed.  The meeting rose at 4 p.m.  La séance est levée à 16 h.00  Se levanta la sesión a las 16 h