Seventh plenary meeting
28 October 1983 at 10.05 a.m.  President: Mr NAHIMANA (Burundi)  later: Mr TELL (Jordan)  Septième séance plénière
1. Le PRESIDENT :  m'a demandé de présider cette septième séance plénière de la Conférence générale  afin que puisse se poursuivre le débat de politique générale. Je donne donc la pa-  role au premier orateur inscrit sur la liste, S. Exc. M. Adesanoye, secrétaire per-  manent au Ministère fédéral de l'éducation et chef de la délégation du Nigéria.
2.1 Mr ADESANOYE (Nigeria) :  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, may I, on behalf of  the Nigerian delegation, associate myself with previous speakers who have con-  gratulated H.E. Mr Said Tell on his well-deserved election to preside over the  twenty-second session of the General Conference. This election no doubt is a  tribute to his personal qualities, background and experience in Unesco's work and  to his country's commitment to its ideals. Through you, Sir, I wish to assure him  of my delegation's constant support and co-operation throughout the Conference.  Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, M. Tell, retenu par la séance du Bureau  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,
2.2 Fir President, I bring to you and members of this august assembly fraternal  greetings and warmest felicitations from Alhaji Shehu Aliyu Shagari, the Executive  President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of  Nigeria and from the entire people of Nigeria. I should like to take this  opportunity, Mr President, to extend a warm welcome to all Member States and hearty  congratulations to the new members who have joined the Unesco family since the  twenty-first session. This continuing increase in membership reflects the confi-  dence in and importance which the world community attaches to Unesco and its work  and achievements.
2.3 My delegation wishes to place on record our appreciation of the thought-  provoking ar.d inspiring address delivered during the opening ceremony by the  President of the French Republic, Mr Franqois Mitterand. Member States at this  Conference will no doubt reflect on the topical issues raised in that address. We  also take this opportunity to thank the government and people of France for their  continued support to and co-operation with our Organization.
2.4 Mr President, the main business of this Conference is the examination and  approval of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985. I shall make a few  general remarks in this connection, leaving its detailed consideration to the other  members of my delegation and concentrating on some of the topics to be considered  here in plenary.
2.5 Document 2 2  C/5 is the result of the combined efforts of Member States and  non-governmental organizations which has been faithfully translated into the five  main tasks and fourteen major programmes which are before us. I wish to congratu-  late the Director-General on the structure and presentation of this document which  conforms to the mandate given to him in Belgrade in 1980 by this august assembly.  Its contents reflect the 1981 ConsultatiQnswith Member States and the Second  Medium-Term Plan as approved at the fourth extraordinary session of the General  Conference. Mr President, my delegation's assessment of the document is that it  is logically prepared and preâented; it is coherentandwell co-ordinated and thus  facilitates easy evaluation of the range of programme activities. We are convinced  that it is worthwhile to execute the excellent programmes that are proposed without  exception since, in our view, they are addressed to the pressing problems of Member  States and offer opportunities for international co-operation aimed at solving such  problems, all of which fall within Unesco's field of competence. My delegation is  particularly pleased with Major Programmes I, VIII, XII, and XIII, which effectively  pose important questions reqarding the prevailing world situation and human problems  and contain programmes of action for tackling such problems.
2.6 . Mr President, permit me to rëfer briefly to certain problems which consti-  tute major challenges to mankind in general and to our Organization in particular.  The economic crises which began in the seventies has continued unabated. The poor  continue to live below the subsistence level and the rich continue to become richer.  Despite a series of conferences such as those held in Cancun, Caracas and Belgrade,  the world has been unable to find a way out of the economic impasse because of  enlightened self-interest. This is why, Mr President, not withstanding political  independence, most developing countries remain economically dependent, and their  efforts continue to be obstructed by the unfavourable international division of  labour and distribution of bargaining power. Such dependence is sustained and re-  inforced by the system of international co-operation. The functioning of the
496    world economy has encouraged unbalanced production and market structures, which in  turn promote unequal distribution of gains from trade and investment. Some of the  major consequences of this situation are the inequalities and structural imbalances  which characterize different sectors of economic activity and the distribution of  economic resources, misallocations of such resources and finally, the worldwide  recession in which we now find ourselves.
2.7 From the foregoing it appears to my delegation that the most urgent  problems facing mankind today are: the need to redress existing inequalities in  the distribution of world resources, the need to end the misallocation of re-  sources so as to ensure that mankind's most pressing needs are met and the need to  lay a foundation of international co-operation and solidarity which would make it  possible to end the recession we all now seem trapped in.
2.8 Unfortunately, this is not the first time that these problems have been  identified. The original call of the General Assembly of the United Nations for  a new international economic order was based on an analysis which fully recognized  these problems and the urgent need to solve them. The fact that very little, if  anything, has been achieved in restructuring international economic relations to  ensure greater equality, equity and efficiency would seem to suggest that the  biggest problem of all is to be found at the level of political will not at that  of technical analysis. When one considers the growing needs of all nations of the  world and, in particular, those of the developing countries with regard to access  to food and nutrition, shelter and health facilities, the existence of widespread  illiteracy and poverty and the growingdeficiencies in the school systems, one  realizes that the solution to these needs requires the mobilization of energies  and resources in all countries and an approach which is global, based on co-  operation and solidarity. And, in the light of such a need for urgent concerted  action, one is even more grossly disappointed by the lack of political will. Yet,  Mr President, we must not despair, My delegation is particularly happy that the  initiatives of Unesco give good cause for hope.
2.9 This is why,Mr President, my delegation would wish to encourage Unesco to  continue its efforts to make a realistic appraisal and assessment of all the major  obstacles and difficulties impeding theachievement of the objective of establishing  a new and equitable economic order, and subsequently prepare a blue-print for over-  coming them. It would also be desirable to carry out research into the forces and  factors militating against the establishment of a new international economic order  in different regions of the world. Unesco should assist developing countries in  promoting the creation and development of infrastructures for research and develop-  ment.
2.10 In considering the current international economic crisis, one cannot fail  to note the vast resources earmarked for armaments and the arms race. It is  baffling that some countries, especially the superpowers, continue to perpetuate  the arms race on the present scale and to neglect basic human needs. One wonders  for which war they are preparing. Since the end of the 1939-1945 War, no two major  military powers have been at war with one another, but eachhas steadily increased  its arsenal and military expenditure year by year at a time when millions of people  are living in abject poverty. Overall annual military expenditure is estimated at  US $830 billion, yet the requirements to finance development programmes throughout  the world are only a small fraction of this. One can quote countless examples of  the way in which the arms race retards the progress of mankind. Suffice it to say,  Mr President, that the continuation of the arms race seem to us a kind of collec-  tive insanity which ought to be halted without further delay. Towards this end,  the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies have an important role to play in  awakening public opinion and the conscience of the world to the need to establish  lasting peace throughout the world. In this regard, Unesco has the specific  mission of helping to eradicate the causes of wars from the minds of men.
2.11 Secondly, Mr President, mankind has yet to discover an instrument more  powerful than education in influencing people, awakening their conscience and  intelligence against prejudice, misconceptions and feelings of hatred, intolerance,  greed and avarice which give rise to aggressiveness and war. We have to inculcate  positive ideas and feelings in the peoples of the world. There is no better way  of doing this than through education, the age-old means of spreading knowledge,  culture and information and bringing about a change both in behaviour and attitudes.
2.12 In the next biennium therefore Unesco should continue its efforts to imple-  ment the decisions and conclusions of the World Congress on Disarmament Education  held in June 1980 as well as the Recommendation concerning Education for Inter-  national Understanding, Co-operation and Peace and Education relating to Human  Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, with a view to developing a climate of opinion  favourable to the strengthening of security and disarmament.
2.13 Mr President, my delegation is seriously concerned about the continued  violations of human rights, especially in Third World countries, and in particular  in southern Africa. First, there is the nagging Namibian question which has not  been resolved in spite of worldwide condemnation of the illegal occupation of  that territory by the South African apartheid regime. what is even more puzzling  is the role of the so-called contact group which has behaved like a toothless bull-  dog that can bark without biting. We reject the latest attempts to delay the  independence of Namibia by the manoeuvres to link it to the existence of foreign  troops in the independent neighbouring State of Angola.
2.14 Secondly, apartheid, the evil system of economic exploitation and racial  oppression, still exists in southern Africa. Unfortunately, without any conscience,  the so-called free world perpetuates the situation and the denial of human rights  which it entails as a way of preserving its own advantages. We in Nigeria condemn  the white racist regime in South Africa both for its inhuman treatment of the black  citizens of that country and for its role in inducing fear in all the nations of  Africa and also, in particular, for its policy of destabilizationof some States.  We are indeed appalled by the excellent relations which that regime seems to enjoy  with some of the Member States represented here, and we sincerely regret the lack  of unanimity in efforts to change the situation in South Africa. For our part, we  shall continue to strive for the freedom of Namibia and all the various racial  groups in South Africa.
2.15 Mr President, in the view of my delegation, the proposals for action against  apartheid contained in Major Programe XII are the minimum that Unesco could con-  tribute to efforts being made to combat this evil.
2.16 Finally, Mr President, we have some observations regarding resource support  for Unesco. From what I have said so far it is clear that we believe strongly that  Unesco is a vital organization and that it is addressing urgent problems facing  mankind. We wish to reaffirm our belief in Unesco, its ideals and its mission. We  are convinced that the Organization is striving to fulfil the hopes and aspirations  of all its Member States. Because we feel this way about Unesco, Mr President, we  are truly worried about the resource problems which the Organization seems to be  facing at the moment, and would like to appeal to all Member States to resolve the  question of the budget ceiling for 1984-1985 in a spirit of co-operation and soli-  darity and on the basis of the values which Unesco represents. We appreciate the  need for the Organization to continue to ensure maximum economy in its operations,  especially in view of the prevailing worldwide economic difficulties, but at the  same time we would urge Member States to note that, if the Organization is to  survive and discharge its important functions with reasonable effectiveness, then  Member States still need to view its budgetary proposals generously, present economic  difficulties notwithstanding. Hence, my delegation fully supports the present  budget ceiling placed before this august assembly, as already adopted by our Execu-  tive Board.
2.17 I cannot conclude this address Mr-President, without paying a glowing  tribute to our distinguished and indefatigable Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar  M'Bow, for his exceptional intellectual capacity and capability in giving tireless  leadership, with drive and matchless devotion and unalloyed faith in and unswerving  dedication to the ideals of Unesco and the solidarity of mankind. He is indeed  a distinguished ci-cizen of the world whose rare personal qualities have won him  universal appreciation and renown. On behalf of myself, my delegation and the  people of Nigeria I sincerely salute and congratulate our Director-General and his  staff for a very difficult job very well done. Mr President, thank you for giving  me the floor.
3. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Nigeria et je donne la parole à  S. Exc. M. Lothar Lahn, directeur général des affaires culturelles au Ministère  fédéral des affaires étrangères et chef de la délégation de la République fédé-  rale d ' Al lemagne.
4.1 Mr LAHN (Federal Republic of Germany):  President and on behalf of my delegation, to congratulate H.E. Mr Said Tell on his  election. He may rest assured that the delegation of the Federal Republic of  Germany will make every effort to facilitate his task through constructive contri-  butions and trusting co-operation.  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, permit me first of all, through you, Mr
4.2 This session of the General Conference is faced with a heavy wo,rk-load, as  is demonstrated only too well by the agenda. The very thoroughgoing impessive  preparations by the Director-General and his staff--,whom I should expressly like  to thank at this point--and the early presentation of the basic documents, make
498    it considerably easier for us to aspire to concrete results. However, the attain-  ment of such results depends, in the final analysis, on whether or not a will for  businesslike and constructive participation prevails. The existence of a large  potential of goodwill for co-operation on substantive issues was impressively  demonstrated at the fourth extraordinary session in November/December 1982. I  would like to see the present session entering the annals of Unesco as a successful  and productive event that helps to improve the international climate.
4.3 Mr President, the public, not only in my country, expect Unesco  worth as a forum to our mutual advantage and not to degenerate into an  battlefield. At a time--and particularly in these days--when political  are accumulating, it should be more than ever our mutual desire to keep  and ideological confrontation out of the Specialized Agencies which are  carry out practical work benefiting mankind and promoting international  unders tanding.
4.4 The programme for the 1984-1985 biennium, which is the focus of  session's work, shows in an impressive manner that it is possible to un  to prove its  deological  conflicts  pol it ical  expected to  this  te the  ideas of some one hundred and cixty member countries unde; a common denominator.  We are particularly happy to stress the high degree of concurrence between the  Medium-Term Plan and the draft biennial plan. The Draft Programme before the  General Conference is based on the more or less detailed comments submitted by  Member States which have been painstakingly compared, evaluated and combined into  a unified whole by the Director-General. Such a task cannot, of course, do justice  to all wishes. It should be acknowledged that the Director-General has kept open  every opportunity for member countries to have further ideas or wishes incorporated,  be it during the period leading up to this session or at the meetings of the five  Programme Commissions during the Conference. My delegation intends to use these  opportunities in a sensible manner. The programe, which represents a self-contained  whole, is convincing in its basic structures. None the less we deem certain modifi-  cations necessary and shall put them forward for discussion in the Commissions.
4.5 Ourevaluationof the Draft Programme for 1984-1985 was determined, among  other things, by the criterion of whether it helped to intensify the dialogue  between industrial and Third World countries. The Federal Republic of Germany  attaches the utmost value to this dialogue. In particular we want it to be con-  ducted not just bilaterally but also at the multilateral level. Unesco is one of  the main forums for this purpose. The basis of this co-operation is mutual respect  and understanding, preservation of one's own identity and respect for that of others.  The problems faced by Third Worldcountries, such as the promotion of development,  energy supplies and environmental protection, appear only at first glance to be  purely economic in nature. They cannot be solved without measures from Unesco's  specific spheres of activity, such as education, especially primary education and  vocational training, promotion of sciences, preservation of the cultural heritage  and the improvement of communications.
4.6 The proposals for 1984-1985 include, in our view, some programmes of great  importance. We strongly support the long-term scientific programmes which are  held in high regard by the countries of the Third World. They are founded on co-  operation in a spirit of partnership and represent a unique form of international  collaboration in the field of research. We also regard Unesco's literacy and post-  literacy programmes as being of the utmost importance, and my country's contribu-  tion here is an additjDnal programme involving collaboration between the Unesco  Institute for Education (Hamburg) and our National Commission. This Institute  which, asyouknow, devotes its efforts to the problem of life-long education and  has met with great acclaim, is located in and largely funded by the Federal Republic  of Germany. We hope that an increasing number of interested Unesco members will  heed the Director&General's appeal for support so that its efficiency can be en-  hanced and its orbit enlarged.
4.1 Mr President, we note with satisfaction that ir, the Draft Programme for
1984-1985 many of the points about which we voiced misgivings during the delibera-  tions on the Second Meaium-Term Plan, especially with regard to individual programmes,  have been eliminated. In particular, this applies to Major Programme III, 'Communi-  cation in the service of man', which now contains wording based on the 1978 Media  Declaration that we support. For instance, the development of a new world informa-  tion and communication order is described as an evolutionary process which is largely  dependent on the elimination of internal and external obstacles to the free flow of  information. This corresponds to our own viewpoint on this subject. The Federal  Republic of Germnay has already actively promoted the development of independent  media structures in numerous developing countries. We intend in the future to im-  plement funds-in-trust projects in the field of the media through the International  Programme for the Development of Communication which plays an important co-ordinating  role in this context.
4.8 We feel, however, that some of the concepts and terms contained in this  programme still require further discussion and definition. This applies, for  example, to such terms as 'democratization of the media', "participation' and  "responsibilities" as well as 'the right to communicate', especially when the  latter is linked with the vague expression "rights of solidarity". These concepts  and terms will have to be thoroughly reviewed if they are to evolve into forward-  looking principles. We are prepared to participate constructively in such a review.
4.9 A very important element of Major Programme III is, in our view, Programme  ïII.2 which aims at promoting the free flow and wider and better balanced dis-  semination of information as well as increased exchanqes of news and programmes. At  this point reference should be made to one aspect of the matter which has been  largely ignored until now in the discussion on media policy, and which the Medium-  Term Plan takes up in paragraph 3035 with the observation: 'The mass media could  have an important role to play in scrutinizing all actions which might lead to  abuses of power'. It would be worthwhile, we feel, examining the extent to which  the press already performs this function. We have submitted a draft resolution to  this effect which has been circulated among Member States. We consider it a  necessary supplement to the programme on communication.
4.10 Concerning Major Programme XII, I should like to stress that we fully back  its goals of eliminating prejudice, intolerance, racism and apartheid. But we have  misgivings about the abundance of studies which are hardly likely to produce new  insights or to make a genuine contribution to solving the problem. We welcome the  fact that the Director-General expressed the same view in his commentary. It is  essential that objective information be gathered and disseminated on the actual  circumstances of all forms of prejudice, intolerance and racism. A one-sided  approach must be avoided.
4.11 In the case of Major Programme XIII, and I refer especially to the proposals  for research into the causes and consequences of the arms race, the question again  arises as to thepre-conditionsfor the preparation of studies by Unesco in accord-  ance with its mandate. For instance, paragraph 13125 envisages studies on a topic  on which a detailed study has already been submitted by the United Nations and on  which further studies are being prepared by the United Nations Institute for Dis-  armament Research (UNIDIR). Apart from the duplication of work which Unesco is  thus causing, one has to ask what purpose and use this subprogramme serves, which  aims in paragraph 13122 to name but one example, at the 'publication of a work on  alternatives in military strategic doctrines'! Here Unesco is entering a field  which is not only entirely outside its ambit but also ignores its true task and  alienates the mandate given to it by all Member States.
4.12 Major Programme VI11 also goes beyond Unesco's purview in several cases.  Here too, a critical examination is urgently needed with due regard for Unesco's  spheres of competence. The programme covers issues such as those relating to the  world economy, debts, transnational corporations as well as food and agriculture  which are clearly the province of other international bodies and organizations. In  the opinion of our experts there is, furthermore, some room for a more modern con-  ceptualization of various aspects of development.
4.13 Mr President, my critical remarks have been directed mainly at Major Pro-  grammes VIII, XII and XIII. But in the other programmes too we should examine in  each individual case whether the large number of studies demanded are actually  necessary and useful, and whether the problems are not already adequately eluci-  dated and documented by studies prepared by other organizations of the United  Nations system or by other internationalor national institutions. The intended co-  operation and complementary activities of international organizations are, in our  opinion, both necessary and useful. But there is still a lack of co-ordination.  Duplication of work must be avoided.
4.14 The review needed here appears to be all the more urgent since, at a time  of great economic difficulties, we are faced with a high growth rate of programme  expenditure which is a cause of serious concern for the Federal Republic of Germany  and for other industrial countries as well. The domestic problems encountered by  my government as a result of the need to make drastic budget cuts directly and  gravely affecting a large part of our population are sufficiently well known. I  therefore trust you will appreciate that my government is unable to support  decisions by international organizations which ignore existing economic constraints.  We are convinced that cuts can be effected in theprogrammeswithout causing any  genuine loss of substance, if the criteria I listed are observed.
4.15 Mr President, at the outset I stated that the Federal Republic of Germany  regards Unesco as an important forum for the dialogue with Third World countries  in particular. This dialogue has until now been continuous and fruitful. Only in  difficult times does it become clear whether genuine partnership can be attained  which can withstand strains and permit solutions that do justice to each other's
5 O0    interests and are mutually acceptable. In underlining the Federal Republic of  Germany's positive attitude towards Unesco, I would point out that this attitude  is geared to the goal of a useful and effective programme, and is also reflected in  the fact that we rank first among those paying extra-budgetary contributions to the  Organization. The Federal Republic of Germany fully backs Unesco. My remarks are  intended to be constructive and help to improve still further Unesco's work and  fruitful co-operation amorig all members.
4.16 Let me return now to Major Programme XIII, 'Peace, international understand-  ing, human rights and the rights of peoples', which, as the Director-General has  stated, has been placed at the end of the Draft Programme as its crowning element.  Peace and human rights are inextricably linked. A nation cannot find peace at home  if the rights and dignity of the individual are trampled underfoot. Likewise  genuineinternational understanding is dependent on respect for human rights and  fundamental freedoms. It is therefore essential to promote worldwide respect for  human rights, be they civil and political or economic, social and cultural.
4.17 This year marks the 35th anniversary of the proclamation of the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights. We must perseveringly continue along the path which  this Declaration opened up and on which the two human rights Covenants have been the  most important milestones so far. It is an arduous path because we are still a long  way from respect for human rights in all parts of the world.
4.18 Peace does not just imply the prevention of war. It presupposes justice--  justice for each individual, each group, each state. Peace means shaping a world  in which human rights and dignity are the paramount criteria. This calls for in-  ternational co-operation, that is to say co-operation among the regions of the world  with their different cultural and legal traditions. A particularlyfine model  for promoting this form of co-operation is the symposium 'Sagesse et Vie Quoti-  dienne en Afrique' which was held in Kigali early in August with ünesco's support  and was attended by six African countries and our own National Commission. This  example should be followed.
4.19 Mr President, I hope that the twenty-second aession of the General Conference  will be marked by this spirit of understanding and co-operation in difficult ques-  tions as well. My delegation will do its part to ensure that this is indeed the  case. Thank you, Mr President.
5. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la République fédérale d'Allemagne  et je donne la parole à S. Exc. M. Bela Kopeczi, ministre de la culture et chef de  la délégation de la Hongrie.
6.1 M. KOPECZI (Hongrie) :  Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, au moment de sa constitution, l'Unesco s'était  fixé pour but de promouvoir la connaissance réciproque, la compréhension et la co-  opération internationales dans les dcmaines de l'éducation, de la culture, de la  science et de la communication. Les années de la détente ont vu s'épanouir l'acti-  vitédenotre0rganisation.L'apportnotabledesEtats ayantnouvellementaccédéà l'in-  dépendance y a contribué beaucoup. La détente servait, l'en suis convaincu, les  intérêts de tous les pays, ne portant préjudice à aucun d'entre eux. Elle a aussi  favorisé le développement des relations scientifiques et culturelles.
6.2 Aussi la tension internationale et son extension nous préoccupent-elles  à juste titre. A ce propos nous ne pouvons pas passer sous silence l'int-ervention  militaire des Etats-Unis à la Grenade, qui contribue à l'aggravation de la situa-  tion internationale et qui est à juste titre condamnée par la communauté interna-  tionale, condamnation à laquelle s'associe la délégation hongroise.
6.3 Pour les organisations internationales, la coopération est un élément vital,  une raison d'être, mais elle est aussi une condition primordiale du maintien de la  paix pour toute l'humanite. D'où l'obligation de tous les hommes de bonne volonté,  de tous les gouvernements, d'élever leur VOiX contre les entreprises qui attisent  la psychose de guerre et augmentent la tension, et de contribuer activement à la  compréhension internationale.
6.4 Une organisation comme l'Unesco ne saurait, de par sa nature et sa missj.on,  rester indifférente devant la détérioration des rapports internationaux. Tout en  consacrant son activité au développement de l'éducation, de la science, de la cul-  ture et de la communication, elle se doit de s'occuper des problèmes najeurs de  l'humanité dont la solution est la condition même des progrès de toute activité de  l'esprit. Si elle négligeait de le faire, elle se trouverait en contradiction avec  sa vocation et finirait par perdre ssn indépendance. Le gouvernement hongrois, qui  axe ses relations internationales sur le dialogue et le maintien des échanges, de  Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation,
501    la coopération, souhaite ardemment que notre Organisation se penche, conformément  à sa mission, sur cette question cruciale de notre époque, sur le problème de la  paix. L'Unesco doit, par les moyens qui lui sont propres et dans tous ses domaines  de compétence, affronter les grands problèmes d'ensemble qui nous préoccupent tous.
6.5 Nous sommes d'accord avec le Directeur général, M. M'Bow, qui, dans son  étude intitulée "Aux sources du futur" (1982), évoquant la menace de la guerre  nucléaire qui pèse sur le monde, y voit le danger d'un anéantissement total de la  civilisation. Aussi approuvons-nous qu'un des 14 grands programmes du Plan à moyen  terme, intitulé "Paix, compréhension internationale, droits de l'homme et droits  des peuples" prévoie des Etudes visant à identifier et analyser les facteurs con-  tribuant à la paix, les causes et les conséquences de la course aux armements et  les relations entre désarmement et développement dans tous les domaines de l'acti-  vité humaine. A notre avis, il est souhaitable que lors de la mise en oeuvre de ce  grand programme - et ce dès l'exercice biennal 1984-1985 - suite aux prcpositions  et initiatives présentées par les Etats membres, l'accent soit mis davantage sur  le rôle et la responsabilité qui incombent aux chercheurs et artistes, aux person-  nalités de la culture et de l'éducation qui peuvent informer l'opinion publique  au sujet du danger qui nous menace tous. I1 y a 12 une tâche propre à l'Unesco  qui ne saurait être prise en charge par aucune autre organisation internationale.
6.6 Nous espérons que le forum culturel prévu pour 1985 dans le document final  de la Conférence de Madrid sur la paix et la sécurité en Europe servira cette même  cause, celle de la compréhension et du rapprochement. Comme c'est la République  populaire hongroise qui aura l'honneur d'accueillir cette rencontre, je saisis  cette occasion pour inviter de cette tribune l'Unesco 2 se faire représenter au  forum culturel qui doit avoir lieu en 1985 à Budapest conformément au voeu exprimé  par la Conférence de Madrid, et à y exposer sa position au sujet des questions im-  portantes et actuelles intéressant la création et la propagation de la culture,  ainsi que la coopération internationale qui s'impose dans ce domaine. Ce souhait  que je viens de formuler est en quelque sorte explicité par l'amendement que nous  proposons au paragraphe correspondant du Projet de programme de l'Unesco pour 1984-
1985, concernant la participation de cette Organisation aux travaux du forum.
6.7 Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais vous faire part des observations de  notre délégation sur les programmes et projets de l'Unesco pour l'exercice biennal  à venir, mais comme je dispose d'un temps limité, je me bornerai à mentionner  quelques problèmes qui me paraissent essentiels, tout en réservant le droit de nos  experts d'interveEir sur d'autres points lors des débats des différentes commissions.
6.8 Tout en reconnaissant l'activité que l'Unesco a déployée jusqu'ici dans le  domaine de l'éducation, nous sommes d'avis que la garantie d'une éducation dans la  langue maternelle pour chaque communauté et couche de la société, en particulier  dans le cas des minorités ethniques et nationales, mérite davantage d'attention.  Laisser scmbrer la culture - fût-ce celle d'une seule tribu - serait infliger une  perte à toute la civilisation, et que dire d'un éventuel échec de la préservation  du patrimoine plusieurs fois millénaire de nombre d'ethnies et de peuples ? Je  crois que c'est un devoir important de l'Unesco de contribuer à la réalisation de  ce but - l'enseignement dans les langues maternelles et la diffusion de la culture  dans les langues maternelles.
6.9 "La culture et l'avenir" - tel est le titre du grand programme relatif à  la culture. En conformité avec sa mission définie dans le Plan à moyen terme,  l'Unesco pourra, à l'avenir, lutter avec plus d'efficacité pour mettre en oeuvre  les principes de la démocratie dans le domaine culturel aussi, consacrant une plus  grande attention aux couches sociales défavorisées pour diverses raisons, aux mi-  norités ethniques et nationales, ainsi qu'aux cultures véhiculées par des langues  peu répandues. Soucieuse d'activer ce processus, notre délégation a dépcsé un pro-  jet de résolution sur l'observation des principes de la démocratie dans la coopé-  ration culturelle internationale. Notre proposition est conçue dans l'esprit de la  Déclaration de Mexico, des principes et des recommandations adoptés par la Confé-  rence mondiale sur les politiques culturelles.
6,lO A propos de l'identité nationale, je voudrais insister sur l'importance de  l'art populaire, qui pour beaucoup de pays est une forme de manifestation cultu-  relle. de tout premier ordre. I1 constitue non seulement un héritage du passé, mais  aussi une partie intégrante de la culture populaire de notre temps, stimulant l'ani-  mation culturelle et la créativité dans divers domaines : musique, danse, arts plas-  tiques et décoratifs et autres.
6.11 Le Projet de programme accorde une attention plus grande qu'auparavant aux  sciences et en particulier à l'analyse de l'interaction entre développement scien-  tifique et technique et progrès social.
6.12 Nous nous félicitons de la prcposition tendant à augmenter, à l'intérieur  du budget, la pcirt des sciences exactes et naturelles. Une telle augmentation est
5 02    susceptible de rehausser l'efficacité et le prestige de l'Unesco, puisque la réali-  sation des programmes relatifs à la recherche, tant fondamentale qu'appliquée, est,  parmi toutes les activités de l'Organisation, celle qui exige le plus de ressources.
6.13 I1 convient d'amorcer, en toute responsabilité et dans un esprit d'analyse,  le débat sur le grand programme III intitulé "La communication au service des  hommes". Nous sommes en pleine Année internationale de ia communication. C'est,  d'autre pzrt, le dixième anniversaire de ce sommet d'Alger des pays non al.ignés  où s'est exprimée pour la première fois l'exigence d'un nouvel ordre international  de la communication. Enfin, voilà cinq ans que, sur l'initiative des pays socia-  listes et grâce au soutien actif des pays en développement, la Conférence générale  de l'Unesco a adopté sa Déclaration sur les organes d'information.
6.14 Nous sommes globalement d'accord avec le grand programme III. Force nous  est cependant de signaler ici qu'à notre avis, il ne reflète pas assez fidëlement  la réalité historique que nous rappelle ce double anniversaire. Nous estimons en  effet que ce chapitre du Projet de programme et de budget ne développe pas assez  explicitement les potentialités que recèle le Plan à moyen terme, OU sont à juste  titre mises en évidence les notions de démocratisation, de participation et de  diffusion dans l'intérêt de la coopération internationale.
6.15 Tout en nous prononçant pour le grand programme III, nous ne pouvons man-  quer de noter que les attaques dirigées contre lui, qui prennent souvent le carac-  tère d'une querelle de personnes, n'agissent pas dans le sens de la coopération si  nécessaire dans ce domaine. D'une manière générale, nous réprouvons les attaques  contre les différentes organisations internationales, telle l'Unesco, dont il faut,  certes, améliorer le travail, mais qui sont d'importants instruments au service de  la coexistence pacifique dans ces temps difficlles.
6.16 Permettez-moi de passer maintenant, selon l'usage, aux conditions qui carac-  térisent la vie culturelle de mon pays. Nous considérons comme une réussite majeure  d'avoir créé, pendant ces trente et quelques dernières années, les conditions juri-  diques - et aussi économiques - deladémocratisationdel'accès à laculture. L'Etat  subventionne largement l'éducation, la création artistique et l'action culturelle.  En Hongrie, 90 % des 14 à 35 ans ont suivi jusqu'au bout le cycle de l'école pri-  maire générale de huit classes, 45 % celui de l'école secondaire de quatre classes,
50 % celui des centres de formation professionnelle de trois classes. Les diplômés  de l'enseignement supérieur représentent 8,3 % de l'effectif des tranches d'âge  concernées. De nos jours, c'est essentiellement du degré de scolarisation que dé-  pendent les activités culturelles postscolaires des différentes couches de popu-  lation, ce qui revient à dire que le sexe, le lieu de résidence et la situation  matérielle de chacun ne priment plus sur le reste. Le fait est capital. Aussi  plaçons-nous l'éducation au centre de nos préoccupations et avons-nous fait de son  développement et de sa modernisation une cause nationale, ce dont témoignent les  propositions de réforme actuellement en discussion,
6.17 De larges couches de population ont recours aux moyens de la culture extra-  scolaire et les connaissances utiles, les grandes valeurs classiques de la littéra-  ture et des arts alimentent la culture des masses dans un sens socialiste. Cette  activité orientge vers les valeurs est une des caractéristiques de notre politique  culturelle. Loin de nous d'affirmer par 12 que chaque couche de la société se cul-  tive dans la même mesure, ni qu'il n'y ait nulle contradiction entre exigences et  possibilités du point de vue de la réception des valeurs.
6.18 Ce qui caractérise aussi la vie culturelle hongroise, c'est sa diversité,  laquelle se manifeste tout autant dans les questions idéologiques que scientifiques  et esthétiques. I1 est naturel que dans ces conditions des débats se poursuivent  et même que des conflits apparaissent. Nous ne dissimulons pas pour autant que les  principes fondamentaux de notre politique culturelle sont déterminés par l'huma-  nisme marxiste, ce qui veut dire que la fonction de la science, des lettres et des  arts, à notre avis, est de contribuer à la grande tâche stratégique qu'est la mise  en oeuvre d'une société nouvelle, la formation de l'homme, de son système de valeurs  et de son mode de vie. En arrêtant notre choix parmi les valeurs hongroises et  étrangères, nous ne nous laissons pas guider par des considérations politiques au  gré de l'actualité, mais par l'aspiration à connaître et à faire connaître les va-  leurs authentiques, et cela même quand nous critiquons la conception du monde sur  laquelle repose telle ou telle expression.
6.19 La recherche de l'universalité, la volonté de diffuser largement les grandes  valeurs culturelles du monde, indépendamment du lieu OU elles sont nées, caracté-  risent également cette vie culturelle. I1 n'est certainement pas déplacé de men-  tionner ici, à Paris, capitale de la France, qu'il n'y a guère d'oeuvres littéraires  françaises de valeur, depuis la Chanson de Roland jusqu'au "nouveau roman" qut  n' aient été publiées er: hongrois , généralement dans les interprétations d' écrivains  et traducteurs de grande notoriété.
6.20 La recherche de l'universalité ne saurait se traduire par l'octroi du "feu  vert" aux tendances qui prônent le militarisme, le racisme, l'approche inhumaine  des rapports humains ou qui inspirent le mépris des valeurs de la vie. De même,  nous nous démarquons de cette "culture de consommation" diffusée par le "show busi-  ness" multinational, cette soi-disa-nte industrie culturelle, que nous considérons  comme une diversion, car en faisant semblant de propager la culture authentique,  elle nous inonde de produits de pacotille. C'est dire que nous nous plaçons du  côté de tous ceux qui entendent préserver l'identité culturelle de leur peuple  dans la culture des masses, continuer les traditions en les développant, tout en  étant prêts à assimiler et à diffi;ser les valeurs universelles. Démocratisation de  la culture, recherche des valeurs authentiques, renforcement de l'identité cultu-  relle nationale et aspiration à l'universalité, tels sont les principes directeurs  de notre vie et de notre politique culturelles.
6.21 En fin de compte, pour nous, la culture -,et je paraphrase ici la défini-  tion qiie l'éminent philosophe hongrois GyÖrgy Lukács (dont nous célébrerons en
1985 le centenaire de la naissance) donna de la littérature universelle - "la  culture est le reflet du processus historique du devenir du genre humain et par  là un élément actif de la lutte pour sa réalisation". I1 n'est peut-être pas inu-  tile de rappeler combien dans ce monde plein d'inquiétudes, de scepticisme et  même de peur, nous avons besoin d'une culture qui contribue à la prise de con-  science et à la confiance en soi de l'homme.
6.22 Je salue, dans cet esprit, la vingt-deuxième session de la Conférence géné-  rale de l'Unesco et je lui souhaite d'oeuvrer, en favorisant le développement et la  coopération culturels, pour les progrès de l'homme, la solidarité humaine et la  paix du monde. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
7. Le PRESIDENT :  et je donne la parole à S. Exc. M. Hasan Saglam, ministre de l'éducation nationale,  et chef de la délégation de la Turquie.
8.1 Mr SAGLAM (Turkey) :  behalf of the Turkish Government I should like to extend to the President of the  Conference, H.E. Mr S. Tell, my warmest congratulations on his election to this  high office.  statesman will greatly contribute to achieving the objectives of this General Con-  ference session and I can assure you all that my delegation stands ready to co-  operate with him to this end.
8.2 I wish to pay a tribute to his predecessor, Mr Ivo Margan, who presided with  diligence over the work of the two previous General Conference sessions, sometimes  in difficult and strenuous conditions. I take this opportunity to extend my appre-  ciation and thanks to Mr Victor Massuh who for three years has ably and successfully  presided over the Executive Board with his experience and great knowledge, enabling  it to give useful guidance to the General Conference. I also wish to reiterate our  highest esteem for and confidence in our distinguished Director-General, Mr Amadou-  Mahtar M'Bow. His wisdom, experience and determination are great assets for Unesco.  Under his leadership, our Organization has acquired new dimensions and dynamism,  expanding its horizons and enlarging its sphere of activities. His official visits  to my country constituted occasions for closer and fruitful collaboration between  Unesco and Turkey.
8.3 I should like to welcome the new Member States of Unesco, Saint Vincent and  the Grenadines, Fiji and Saint Christopher-Nevis.  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la République populaire hongroise  Mr President, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on  I am confident that his extensive knowledge and experience as a
8.4 Mr President, the twenty-second session of the General Conference of  Unesco is being held at a time when mankind is confronted with a multitude of  world problems against the background of an increasingly unstable and unpredictable  international situation. The arms race continues unabated, decreasing prospects  for world peace and absorbing resources urgently needed by the developing countries.  The world economy is going through its worst crisis since the Second World War. A  low rate of economic growth, unemployment and large-scale indebtedness are the  order of the day. I should also like to stress that international terrorism is  becoming increasingly a serious threat to world peace.
8.5 The problems confronting us do not seem to be temporary but lasting, impos-  ing the necessity for finding comprehensive solutions to be worked out through  collective efforts. Indeed, Mr President, at no timehas interdependence among nations  been more evident and at no time has there been greater need for the formulation of  collective solutions in a spirit of international solidarity. The problems each  nation faces today are so closely interlocked that effective international co-  operation alone can provide an adequate and efficient answer to them.
8.6 Unesco has a constitutional responsibility to contribute to the solution of  world problems by promoting collaboration among nations in the fields of education,  science, culture and communication. We therefore find it quite appropriate that  the first item concerning. general policy questions on our agenda is Unesco's con-  tribution to the attainment of the objective of a new international economic order.  Indeed, we totally agree that the social and economic imbalances and disparities  caused by the existing international economic and social order resulting in large-  scale poverty, ignorance and despair in some parts of the world, necessitate urgent  consideration of the issue.
8.7 In his report to the General Conference, the Director-General comprehen-  sively reviews the activities carried out by Unesco during the preceding budgetary  period to attain the objective of establishing a new international economic order.  We fully support these activities and express the hope that they be given new  impetus during the execution of the Second Medium-Term Plan.
8.8 The maintenance and strengthening of world peace has always been one of  the main concerns of this Organization. The halting of the arms race is possible  only as far as nations feel that their security is guaranteed. International  security can be obtained by creating a climate of mutual confidence and trust among  nations. We strongly believe that Unesco should continue its action for peace  through education, culture and the broadest possible dissemination of information.  It should bring its influence to bear upon the conscience and intelligence of  individuals and peoples so that they can overcome prejudices, misconceptions and  the feelings of hatred and intolerance which often constitute threats to world  peace. We therefore consider the Unesco Recommendation concerning Education for  International Understanding, Co-operation and Peace and the Unesco Declaration on  Fundamental Principles concerning the Contribution of the Mass Media to Strengthen-  ing Peace and International Understanding as highly influential instruments in the  efforts of our Organization towards the strengthening of peace and international  understanding.
8.9 In his report to the General Conference the Director-General reviews the  Unesco activities carried out in the fields of education, science and culture with  a view to strengthening world peace by promoting human rights and eliminating  colonialism and racism, by sensitizing world public opinion to the dangers of the  arms race and by fostering international cultural and scientific co-operation. We  entirely support all these activities, considering them to be fully in conformity  with the desires and aspirations of member countries.
8.10 We are also particularly happy to see that the Director-General has given  special attention to programmes concerning women and youth. For these are the two  categories, especially in the developing world, who most need facilities for edu-  cation, health and cultural activities as well as suitable employment openings.
8.11 Mr President, this session of the General Conference is to examine and  adopt the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985, which covers the first biennium  of the Second Medium-Term Plan. This document deserves the highest praise for  offering a skilful balance between reflection and action. I wish to express our  appreciation to the Director-General and the members of the Secretariat of the work  accomplished. The Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985 is based on an analysis  of world problems, prepared on the basis of an interdisciplinary and intersectoral  approach, and for the first time presented by major programmes. All this must have  required very effective co-ordination between the numerous administrative units  of the Secretariat.
8.12 In our opinion the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985 is in perfect  conformity with the lines of emphasis of the Second Medium-Term Plan and the  resolutions adopted by the General Conference at its fourth extraordinary session.
8.13 I should now like to comment on the major programmes. As regards Major  Programme I, 'Reflection on world problems and future-oriented studies', we entirely  approve this task of continuous thinking on global issues that our Organization is  to undertake, and agree with the proposal to set up a decentralized international  institutional network and an international committee for future-oriented studies,  the composition of which we consider to be of the highest importance.
8.14 Mr President, Major Programmes II, IV and V on educationcomply strictly with  the directives of the Second Medium-Term Plan. They respond to the needs and con-  cerns of Member States, and particularly of the developing countries. We whole-  heartedly support them. We consider that the programme on the eradication of  illiteracy is of special significance. The Director-General stated at the 117th  session of the Executive Board that the number of illiterates and semi-literates  in the world, who so far were estimated at some 800 million, had reached one billion.  He also pointed out that the scourge of illiteracy was not confined to the develop-  ing countries hut that, even in industrialized countries from which illiteracy had  been eradicated, there was a relapse into illiteracy.
8.15 This statement clearly underlines the gravity of the p.roblem yet again.  We highly appreciate the initiatives and efforts undertaken by the Director-General  for the promotion of literacy in the world. The Turkish Government is very keen  to support all Unesco activities aimed at eradicatinq illiteracy. My government  launched a nationwide campaign in March 1981 as part of its efforts to eliminate  illiteracy. By 1 June, 3,000,190 persons were attending the 138,338 literacy  courses organized in all parts of the country.
8.16 We are most satisfied to see that Major Programme II, 'Education for all',  is given high priority in the Draft Programme and Budget, especially in the alloca-  tion of funds. All the programmes and subprogrammes contained in this major pro-  gramme are action-oriented and deserve our full support. We have noted with special  attention the activities of this major programme concerning migrant workers and  their families. The education of migrant workers and their families, especially  those of the second generation, is one of the main concerns of the Turkish Govern-  ment. It is essential for us to integrate migrant workers' children into the  educational, social, cultural and economic systems of the country in which they  reside while maintaining their links with Turkish culture so as to facilitate their  reintegration, should they wish to return to Turkey. We appreciate Unesco's  assistance in supporting our efforts for the education of Turkish migrant workers.  We believe that Unesco's technical and financial assistance in this regard should  be continued and further strengthened.
8.17 I am pleased to state that we also fully support Major Programmes IV and V  on education. The activities envisaged in these major programmes are perfectly in  keeping with the accomplishment of the third task assigned to Unesco.
8.18 Major Programme III, 'Communication in the service of man', also deserves  our full support. Unesco's action towards achieving the objectives of a free flow  and wider and better balanced dissemination of information and increased exchange  of news and programmes should be continued and strengthened. We have always main-  tained that limited, biased and incorrect information encourages prejudice and  hostile attitudes. The developing countries should be provided with the necessary  means of diffusing their own views, giving an objective and correct image of their  own values and ways of life. We therefore fully support the efforts towards the  establishment of a new information and communication order. An essential means of  achieving this is to strengthen the communication infrastructures of developing  countries. Turkey is favourably impressed by the significant progress the inter-  governmental Council of the International Programme for the Development of Communi-  cation has made towards the realization of its objectives. In view of its keen  interest in this field, the Turkish Government has submitted its candidacy for a  seat on the IPDC Council.
8.19 An international symposium on the socio-cultural impacts of the new communi-  cation techniques was organized recently in Istanbul by the Turkish National  Commission for Unesco. The highly interesting results of this symposium, attended  by several eminent personalities from the world mass media, will be published and  diffused very soon.
8.20 We entirely support Major Programme VII, 'Information systems and access  to knowledge', and are eager to see all its programmes and subprogrammes fully  implemented.
8.21 Major Programme VI, which we also support, groups action-oriented pro-  grammes in all branches of science and gives Unesco the possibility of contributing  in a concrete manner to the strengthening of endogenous scientific infrastructures  in Member States, which is particularly important for the developing countries.  The other major programmes in the field of science receive our full support as  well.
8.22 Unesco has acquired a wide range of experience in the process of developing  its major intergovernmental scientific programmes which are of great significance,  particularly to the developing countries, and we fully support them. It is our  hope that these scientif.ic programmes will be allocated increased resources.
8.23 . My government welcomes Major Programme VIII, 'Principles, methods and  strategies of action for development', considering its importance especially for  developing countries. The proposed allocation of funds reflects the high priority  it deserves.
8.24 As regards Major Programme XI, 'Culture and the future', I should like to  commend the Director-General and his collaborators on the extent to which the  recommendations of the World Conference on Cultural Policies held in Mexico in 1982  have been incorporated into this programme.
8.25 Turkey had the pleasure of hosting the third session of the Intergovern-  mental Committee for Promoting the Return of Cultural Property to its Countries of  Origin or its Restitution in Case of Illicit Appropriation which took place in  Istanbul from 9 to 1 1  May 1983. The Director-General personally attended the clos-  ing meeting of this session, a gesture which emphasized the importance attached  to the activities of the Committee. The recommendations adopted by the Intergovern-  mental Committee concerning the return of cultural property to countries of origin  has a special significance to Turkey, which is one of the countries which suffered  most from the phenomenon of illicit traffic in cultural property. Therefore, in  order to contribute in a concrete manner to the work of the Intergovernmental Com-  mittee, Turkey has submitted its candidature for a vacant seat on the Committee.
8.26 Turkey attaches particular importance to the activities carried out by  Unesco in the field of the cultural heritage, and strongly maintains that world  public opinion should be made more conscious of the importance of international co-  operation in this field. With this conviction, the Turkish Government has ratified  the Convention concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage  and has submitted its candidature for a vacant seat on this committee as well.
8.27 It is my pleasure to pay a tribute to the continuous action taken by the  Director-General to inform world public opinion and increase its awareness of the  necessity to safeguard the cultural heritage. I should like to express here the  gratitude of the Turkish Government to the Director-General for launching the  international campaign for the safeguarding of the historic parts of Istanbul and  the site of Göreme on 13 May 1983. I reiterate here the determination of the  Turkish Government, personally witnessed by the Director-General in Turkey, to  achieve all the objectives of this campaign, the total cost of which would be a  considerable financial challenge for any country. We sincerely hope that the  international community will respond positively to the Director-General's appeal  on behalf of the historical monuments of Istanbul and the site of Göreme which  form part of the cultural heritage of mankind as a whole.
8.28 We whole-heartedly welcomeMajor Programme XII, 'The elimination of preju-  dice, intolerance, racism ana apartheid', and commend Unesco's determined efforts  to tackle in a coherent and concerted manner the complex problems raised by the  persistence of prejudices and the emergence of new forms of intolerance and racism.
8.29 Turkey has been following with deep interest the activities carried out by  Unesco with a view to the revision of textbooks and manuals so as to bring about  better understanding between nations. In fact, the Turkish National Commission  for Unesco, in close contact with other National Commissions of the Balkan States,  has been engaged in the studies in this field. We hope that co-operation in this  respect will be further promoted.
8.30 Major Programme XIII, 'Peace, international understanding, human rights  and the rights of peoples', comprises a number of activities which are certainly  among the foremost concerns of all Member States. Unesco, by virtue of its  Constitution, is called upon to promote universal respect for justice, the rule of  law and human rights and fundamental freedoms without distinction of race, sex,  language and religion. We are firmly convinced that an international order based  on peace, justice and equality cannot be conceived without respect €or and the  effective protection of human rights. On the occasion of the 35th Anniversary of  the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, I should like to reiterate here Turkey's  full commitment to the principles laid down therein. It is, Mr President, with  this understanding that we endorse Major Programme XIII in its entirety. Among the  activities planned under this major programme, we attach particular importance to  promoting the teaching of international law and the implementation of the 1974  Recommendation concerning education in the fields of peace, human rights, the  elimination of racism and apartheid and the follow-up activities of the Intergovern-  mental Conference on education for international understanding organized in 1983,  notably in the field of the improvement and revision of school manuals and textbooks
8.31 Being among the first countries to have taken important steps for the  emancipation of women, we are happy to see that a major programme has been estab-  lished in the Second Medium-Term Plan to bring together programmes specifically  designed to improve the status of women and that the Draft Programme and Budget  accordingly comprises important activities in this field.
8.32 The problems facing the international community today are so interrelated  and complex in nature that satisfactory solutions to them can only be sought  through collective efforts. We are firmly convinced that Unesco, through its pro-  posed Programme and Budget for 1984-1985 and the determined efforts of its Director-  General and secretariat, will make important contributions to the solution of these  complex problems. This is why we sincerely trust that the Draft Programme and  Budget will receive the unanimous approval of the General Conference. This being  said, we are also aware that the activities envisaged in the Draft Programme and
5 07    Budget cannot be implemented without the political will of Member States. Let me  conclude, Mr President, by expressing my conviction that the deliberations of this  General Conference will yield fruitful results. Thank you, Mr President.
9. Le PRESIDENT :  au chef de la délégation de la Barbade, S. Exc. Mme Billie Miller, ministre de
1' éducation.  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Turquie et je donne la parole
1 O. 1 Mrs MILLER (Barbados) :  The task before him is not an easy one, but we are confident that under his guidance  the deliberations of this Conference will arrive at a successful conclusion.
10.2 May I also take this opportunity, Mr Director-General, to congratulate you  on the excellent manner in which you have conducted the work of the Organization  since the twenty-first session of the General Conference. The oral introduction  to the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985 is yet another example of your com-  prehensive understanding of the role Unesco must play in seeking solutions to  global problems, especially as they relate to developing countries.  Mr President, may I, through you, congratulate Mr Tell on his election.
10.3 Mr President, this is the second successive year in which I have had the  extreme pleasure of welcoming not one but two neighbours from the English-speaking  Caribbean into full membership of the Organization. I welcome them to Unesco: I  welcome them to the Latin America and Caribbean group; I welcome them to the new  Caribbean sub-group. Words of welcome are also extended to our Dutch-speaking  Caribbean neighbour from the Netherlands Antilles on its admission to Associate  Membership. And we are happy to welcome all of the other new members who are attend  ing the General Conference for the first time.
10.4 Mr President, one of the most tragic events ever to have occurred in the  Caribbean has resulted in the absence of a delegation from our sister island,  Grenada. Miss Jacqueline Creft, the late Minister of Education of Grenada, with  whom I spoke some three weeks ago, was scheduled to attend this Conference. Our  colleague discussed with great eagerness her plans and propsals for participating  in this meeting and the work of Unesco generally. Indeed as recently as April this  year she chaired a meeting of Ministers responsible for Unesco affairs of the  English-speaking Caribbean group at which co-ordination of our participation in the  work of this General Conference was discussed. With great sorrow and regret it  must be recorded that on Wednesday, 19 October, Miss Creft was brutally murdered,  together with her Prime Minister and other Ministers of the Cabinet, by political  assassins. These assassinations, Mr President, followed the liberation of these  members of the Grenada Cabinet by a popular uprising of the people of Grenada.  This young women of 32, this mother, this Minister of Education, who sat with us  last year and would have sat with us again this year, was restrained in the most  dehumanizing circumstances: naked and without food for an entire week prior to the  cold-blooded murder.
10.5 Mr President, situations such as that which developed in Grenada call for  frankness.  very fabric of coexistence in a region as homogeneous as the Caribbean is threatened.  The small island states of the English-speaking Caribbean have for long been linked  by a common historical and cultural experience. In the field of education, we sup-  port a regional university. We are members of a common economic organization. The  internal problems of any one state affect the well-being of all other states in the  region. Just as importantly, Mr President, the peoples of the English-speaking  Caribbean fully believe in the principles of democracy and the maintenance of insti-  tutions which provide for the free expression of the will of our peoples.  against this background that events in Grenada must be seen, and the distant cries  of self-righteous indignation assessed.
10.6 On the morning of i9 October 1983, the people of Grenada spontaneously  acted to free their Prime Minister, Maurice Bishop and other members of his Cabinet  who had been detairied for a week by a repressive faction. The response of that  gang of terrorist thugs was to shoot these leaders down in cold blood and, in the  course of doing so, to take the lives of innocent civilians. But that was not all.  Surviving members of the Cabinet were arrested, some at dead of night, and they  have not been heard from, even now. This was followed by the institution of a  draconian curfew for 96 hours, during which the entire populace was confined under  threat of being shot on sight. The sick could not be attended. The dead could not  be buried.  We must eschew platitudinous rhetoric and cold war polemics when the  It is
10.7 Mr President, these were the conditions which led the Governor-General, Sir  Paul Scoon, to make his urgent appeal to the other members of the Organization of  Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) for assistance in bringing the situation of anarchy
508    and repression to an end. This appeal itself, had to be carried secretly out of  Grenada, since the Governor-General himself was under restraint. The states con-  cerned are committed under the treaty establishing the Organization to mutual  assistance when the security of any one state is threatened.
10.8 Barbados is similarly committed under a subregional security agreement.  Barbados shared the concern of the OECS at the horrendous turn of events in Grenada.  When to this was added the certainty that there existed large quantities of sophis-  ticated military equipment and support personnel in Grenada, it was obvious that  the limited resources available to Caribbean States would be totally inadequate to  restore normalcy in that country. Barbados therefore joined in an appeal to the  United States of America and other powers for assistance in removing the terrorist  regime through a preemptive defensive strike. Subsequent events have justified our  concern at the existence of this equipment.
10.9 Today, Mr President, we are happy to state that the Governor-General and  people of Grenada are free of that tyranny and will in the very near future be  enabled to elect a government of their choice.
10.10 Barbados is firmly committed to demccratic principles and will continue to  exert all its efforts to promoting the application of these principles in our  region.
10.11 Mr President, Barbados wishes to express its general satisfaction that the  action proposed in document 22 C/5 responds closely to the objectives of the Second  Medium-Term Plan. We observe with approval that an attempt has been made to bring  about a better balance between action-oriented programmes and reflection. We note  the allocations made in the Draft Programme and Budget for the eradication of illi-  teracy under the Major Project on Education in Latin America and the Caribbean.  There are, of course, some concerns which this delegation will raise in the appro-  priate Commissions relating to specific activities in the Draft Progamme and Budget.  There is, moreover, one particular matter which Barbados wishes to stress here.
10.12 One of the fundamental approaches to the question of illiteracy is the  development of and support for indigenous and endogenous institutions. It is  against this background that Barbados and other Caribbean Member States affirmed,  both at Quito in April 1981 and St. Lucia in July 1982, that CARNEID - the Carib-  bean Network of Educational Innovation for Development - would be the organization  responsible for major project activities relating to the Caribbean. Barbados is  disappointed that nowhere in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985 is this  clearlystated. it recognize^^ that mention is made of CARNEID in a number of  paragraphs, but there is no organized programme of activity clearly identified for  CARNEID under Major Programme II.
10.13 In its contribution to the discussions on the Second Medium-Term Plan, the  Barbados delegation had occasion to draw attention to the role CARNEID should be  playing within the framework of the Major Project. I would consequently invite  the Director-General to review the proposals in document 22 C / 5  so that all acti-  vities relating to the Caribbean can be decentralized with adequate funding to  CARNEID.
10.14 Mr President, Barbados is also ccmcr::rned about the problem of lapsed lit-  eracy. We note in Major Programme II that Unesco proposes to address this matter  in a limited way. However I consider it necessary for Unesco to present more pre-  cise outlines of action-oriented activities to confront these problems and to re-  duce the increased numbers of those who come out of our school systems ill-equipped  to move on to productive activity.
10.15 The field of technical education and vocational training is recognized as  a priority area in the Caribbean. At present the formal education systems arc not  meeting the challenge. Some work has already commenced on reshaping the systems  to orient them more closely to the world of work and Unesco's assistance in this  area is acknowledged. Funds allocated in the Programme and Budget appear woefully  inadequate, and it is recommended that serious efforts be made to attract increased  funding, perhaps from extra-budgetary sources, during the biennium 1984-1985 for  the development of technical and vocational training.
10.16 Mr President, our University of the West Indies in the Caribbean has been  engaged in a project aimed at preserving the rich dialects of the region. We note  with interest the proposals for case studies on national languages and mother  tonques and wish to participate in the workshops which are planned on this subject.
10.17 I should. mention further that the project referred to has been the subject  of previous discussion with Unesco, and we had hoped that appropriate funding would  have been provided in this biennium for advancing the work already under way. It  is our intention to seek an amendment to the relevant paragraphs in the Draft Pro-  gramme and Budget so that funds may be made available for this important activity.
10.18 Barbados gives its support to the actions proposed in document 22 C/5 for  the sciences and their application to development. We consider the activities  contained therein not only support national priorities but also make significant  contributions to the emerging regional policy directions. The small size of many  of the Caribbean Member States imposes a limit on the nature and scope of national  efforts and thus makes recourse to regional and international co-operation a vital  necessity.
10.19 Barbados and the Caribbean will propose in the relevant Commissions that  steps be taken to ensure that the subregion obtains adequate participation in post-  graduate and training courses, particularly in solid physics, micro-biology and  biotechnology; we will give strong support to the introduction of new training  courses in the science Qf materials and solar energy conversion, iiparticular.
10.20 Mr President, given the serious economic difficulties which the contributing  countries to Unesco are now facing, the Director-General must be complimented on  arriving at a budget ceiling which, while satisfying the aspirations of member  countries as set out in the Second Medium-Term Plan and the Draft Programme and  Budget, does not place a strain on Member States in finding additional resources  to carry out the activities of the Organization. We express the hope that all  member countries will support without reservation the proposed ceiling for 1984-
1985, as set out under Alternative I in document 22 C/5 Rev.2.
10.21 The escalating expenditure on arms is the subject of extensive discussion  at each General Conference session. More often than not the rhetoric is confined  to the arms build-up by the superpowers. I consider, however, that the time has  come when attention must be focused on the significant sums of money which are  being expended in the provision of arms and military hardware to small developing  countries. The value of the arms so generously supplied to and found in Grenada  would have been far more beneficial if it had been given for improving the edu-  cational infrastructure in that country. Then, perhaps, we might have been moving  closely to the concepts of Unesco in creating a climate conducive to peace in the  minds of men.
10.22 In conclusion, Mr President, may I recall that the Credentials Committee  has examined the credentials of the Grenada delegation and found them to be in  order. These credentials were signed by Mr Unison Whiteman, Foreign Minister. He  is now dead, murdered. Miss Jacqueline Creft, Minister of Education, was head of  the delegation. She is now dead, murdered. I crave your indulgence and that of  the General Conference in asking that one minute's silence be observed in tribute  to the memory of the Hon. Jacqueline Creft. Thank you, Mr President.  (Mr Tell took the Chair)  . u '+a i>3i &LIJ \l J , r   (The Conference observed one minute's silence)
(11.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the head of the delegation of Barbados for her remarks.
(11.2) Let us. now rise and observe one minute of silence.
(11.3) I t.hank the heads of the delegations of Nigeria, the Federal Republic of Germany,  Hungary and Turkey for congratulating me - in my absence - on my election as President of  the Conference.
(12.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, before I give the floor to the next  speaker, I would like to inform you that the General Committee, at its second meeting,  examined ways of distributing the reserve in the amount of one million dollars included in  the Draft Appropriation Resolution in document 22 C/5 for draft resolutions submitted by  Member States. The General Committee recommends the following: First, that US $750,000  out of the US $1 million reserve be distributed to Programme Commissions on the basis of  the proportion of draft resolutions presented to each Commission within its competence.  Second, that the remaining US $250,000 be distributed, pursuant to Rule 78 A, paragraph 2  of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, at the end of the seventh day of the  General Conference, i.e. 2 November, which is as you know, the deadline for the submission  of draft resolutions which do not involve new activities but entail an increase in budget-  ary expenditure which is not considered substantial within the meaning of paragraph 1.  Third, that each Commission dispose of the funds up to the amount available to it. Fourth,  that the General Committee re-examine the matter at its session of 4 November so as to  submit to the plenary meeting its final recommendations regarding the remaining amount of  US $250,000. The percentages allocated to each Commission will be published in the Journal.  May I consider the recommendation approved?
(12.2) Since I see no objections, the recommendation is approved.  COMPOSITION OF THE DRAFTING AND NEGOTIATION GROUP/  COMPOSITION DU GROUPE DE REDACTION ET DE NEGOCIATION/  COMPOSICION DEL GRUPO DE REDACCION Y DE NEGOCIACION/  COCTAB FPYiinbI II0 PEAAKTBPOBAHMD M COrJIACOBAHMK)/ \&.gUIg .&-I &y  &&& $ -$ & igj Ml
(13.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  zation of the work of this session of theGeneralConference, your third plenary meeting  also decided to establish a Drafting and Negotiating Group, specifying the members of this  group and the distribution of membership amongst the electoral groups.
(13.2) I shall now give the flcor to the Secretary of the General Conference, who will  read out the list of representatives of each of the electoral groups on the Drafting and  Negotiating Group as proposed by the General Committee.  Ladies and gentlemen, when it adopted document 22 C/2 Rev. concerning the organi-
14.1 The SECRETARY:  Drafting and Negotiation Group are the following: for.Electora1 Group I: Finland,  France, Federal Republic of Germany, Switzerland, United States of America: for  Electoral Group II: Bulgaria, German Democratic Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics; for Electoral Group III: Brazil, Chile, Cuba, Mexico: for Electoral  Group IV: China, India, Japan arid the Philippines: for Electoral Group V, for  which nine members altogether are foreseen (four for the Arab States and five for  the African States), the four Member States proposed for the Arab States are:  Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic and Tunisia,  and the five proposed for the African States are: Gabon, Lesotho, Mozambique,  Senegal and Zaire.
14.2 Thank you, Mr President.  Thank you, Mr President. The Member States proposed as members of the
(15. i) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr Secretary.
(15.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider the composition of the Drafting and  Negotiating Group, as recommended by the General Committee, approved.
(15.3) I give the floor, once again, to the Secretary of the General Conference.
16.1 The SECRETARY :  graph 73 of document 22 C/2 Rev., which reads as follows:  Thank you, Mr President. May I draw the attention of delegations to para-  'The States designated as members of the Drafting and Negotiation Group  are invited to select the member of their delegation who is able to follow  its proceedings throughout the period of the General Conference, bearing in  mind that, as a general rule, members of the group should be replaced only  in exceptional circumstances. Each member may be assisted by a deputy'.
16.2 May I consequently ask the delegations concerned to let me know before the  end of this morning's meeting the names of the persons representing them in the  Drafting and Negotiation Group.
16.3 The Nominations Committee will meet for its third meeting this afternoon in  order to consider its recommendation concerning the election of the Chairman of  the Drafting and Negotiation Group.
16.4 Thank you, Mr President.
(17) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr Secretary.
(18) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  the Arab Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, H.E. Mr Mohieddine Saber.  I now give the floor to the sixth speaker at this meeting, the Director-General of
(19.1) Mr SABER (Arab Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization - ALECSO)  (Translation from the Arabic) :  Mr Director-General, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr President, Your  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, observers and representatives of governmental and  ~~?-qc:er-r.ent-l =rqY-izations, ladies and gentlemen, I greet you on behalf of the Arab  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (ALECSO) and on my own behalf. We would  like to pay tribute to the fundamental role played by Unesco in the promotion of culture,  knowledge and scientific progress, a role supported by you through your close co-operation  in its policy-making and in the strengthening of its projects and programmes. Such a role  aims at overall human and social development, as well as the preservation and promotion of  world peace by awakening the conscience of mankind to its importance as a fundamental pre-  requisite for human rights and the rights of peoples. Foremost among these rights are  freedom, culture and equity, including freedom of opinion and belief, and equal right to a  life free from such unacceptable priniitive propensities as racial discrimination, a life in  which the cultural iäentity, unique achievements and creative oatlook of civilized com-  munities - the very diversity - of which is enriching to numanity are safeguarded against  attempts to impose other cultures, trends and beliefs upon them by means of directed mass  media, blind force or faulty education.
(19.2)  different peoples and cultures through mutual esteem and discerning awareness of human  responsibility towards life and civilization is a source of great hope for mankind in this  era. The present meeting is proof of our willingness to shoulder this responsibility.
(19.3) Mr President, I should like to take advantage of this opportunity to join previous  speakers in congratulating you on the unanimous and well-deserved vote of confidence ex-  pressed in your election as President of the twenty-second session of the General Confe-  rence of Unesco. This session is of particular importance, in view of the seriousness of  the subjects with which it has to deal. Consequently, such great confidence is also a  great responsibility. We know you to be capable of carrying it with competence, impartia-  lity and wisdom. You, Mr President, are one of the most prominent and learned educational  figures in the Arab world, whose knowledge is backed by great experience in high-level  public positions. Apart from such personal distinction, your election as president is a  positive sign, both at the international level and at the level of Unesco. For your  unanimous election, coming at a time in which political tension prevails and worldwide  problems abound, emphasizes an important fact, namely that culture is still the common  ground of different peoples and Unesco the forum for dialogue and focal point of hopes for  peace and international co-operation.
(19.4) Your unanimous election also constitutes an affirmation of mutual esteem between  the world's different cultures within their shared human matrix. In addition, it is a  generous international tribute to Arab culture and its values, and to the spiritual  guidance, sclentific stock and development efforts which that culture has contributed and  with which it has participated in the shaping of human civilization in general, in the  Third World in particular.
(19.5) I would like to thank the Member States gathered at this conference, represented  by the regional groups, the Group of Seventy-Seven and the Non-Aligned group, as well as  the Chairman and membem of the Executive Board, and the Director-General, for their stead-  fast co-operation in accordance with the principles of Unesco, as well as for the manner  in which the President of the Conference - whose background of knowledge and experience  qualify him for a position of such international responsibility - was elected.
(19.6) In this connection, I also extend my thanks to Mr Margan, President of the twenty-  first session and the fourth extraordinary session of the General Conference, during whose  term of office important historic work took place under Unesco's auspices, including the  adoption of the Medium-Term Plan. Mr Margan's wisdom, ability, impartiality, humane rela-  tions with his colleagues and co-operation with the Director-General, the Secretariat and  the Executive Board, all played an important role in the international achievements of  Unesco. If man's greatest joy lies in the fulfilment of his duties to the best of his  abilities and the enjoyment of the fruits of his labour, then Mr Margan succeeded in accom-  plishing just that. We express our appreciation of his efforts, which will be recorded  forever in the annals of this Organization and go down in history as a meritorious chapter  in the life of nations.
(19.7) Mr President, the General Conference opens up a new era in its discussion of the  first draft programme to be prepared by the Secretariat of Unesco on the basis of the  Medium-Term Plan. This last is distinguished, amongst other things, by its universal and  comprehensive handling of contemporary issues, both in terms of the examination and analyses  it undertakes and in terms of the solutions it offers. The Director-General, the Executive  Board and the members of the Secretariat deserve congratulations for their efforts in the  preparation, elaboration and completion of that document. In addition, tribute must be  paid to the role of the Member States, the specialized committees and the experts and  technicians from all over the world who helped produce this important document. The effort  required to implement the lines of emphasis of the document must be worthy of the objectives  in view. Furthermore, co-operation between the Member States and Unesco, which is growing  stronger day by day, is a sure guarantee of the success of these programmes and projects.
(19.8) Among the most important concepts dealt with in the Medium-Term Plan is the concept  of peace, the legal, political and practical prerequisite of human rights. In this con-  nection, it is essential to strive to put an end to racial discrimination, all forms of  which are offensive to humanity, as well as to put a stop to military aggression, the dis-  persal of peoples, the encouragement of civil war and the nuclear arms race. All these  are, in the final analysis, directed against human life itself, against the life of each  individual, against human civilization and the civilization of peoples. It is also essen-  tial to oppose the tendency for nations to resort to unjustified aggression against smaller  nations, a phenomenon which is becoming a threat to world security and peace, affecting, in  turn, international responsibility, world political ethics and civilized forms of behaviour.
(19.9) Mr President, we pin high hopes on this part of Unesco's programme and on the acti-  vities it proposes, for they constitute an important factor in the achievement of under-  standing among peoples and the reinforcement of the human values endorsed by international  principles.
(19.10) When we speak of world peace, it is essential that we condemn the discriminatory  practices of the South African racist authorities against the African peoples, their conti-  nued occupation of Namibia, and their tyrannical aggression against independent African  States by means of unjustifiable raids.
(19.11) We also strongly condemn the position taken by Israel in pursuing its policy of  aggression against the Palestinian people in an effort to obliterate that people's historic,  cultural, spiritual and moral characteristics. It still persists in its refusal to imple-  ment United Nations resolutions - to one of which it owes its very existence - and in its  disregard for Unesco's resolutions, with respect to both Jerusalem and the occupied terri-  tories, seeking to alter their legal status and present the international community with a  fait accompli.  The role ,of Unesco in promoting world peace and achieving understanding between
(19.12) Israel's settlement policy in Occupied Palestine and its transformation of  Jerusalem's features by encircling it with settlements of armed civilians who carry out  assaults on the Al-Aqsa mosque and the isolated Arab population, is visible proof of the  Zionist authorities' determination to exterminate the Palestinian people and obliterate  its history, culture and heritage. Therein lies one of Unesco's and your own great.univer-  sal responsibilities.
(19.13) In this connection, I must pay tribute to Unesco's efforts and endeavours, through  its Executive Board and Secretariat, under the leadership of the Director-General, to up-  hold the truth and implement as many of its resolutions as possible. We also commend the  World Heritage Committee's resolution to place the Old City of Jerusaiem'on the List of  World Heritage in Danger.
(19.14) Mr President, in addition to its actions in Occupied Palestine and in the occupied  Arab territories, Israel continues to pursue its policy of aggression in Lebanon. We  refer with condemnation to the killing and dispersal of the population through Israeli  attacks on Lebanon, as well as the sabotage.of its educational and cultural institutions  and the various assaults on its historical and artistic monuments. We demand an end to  this tyrannical aggression.
(19.15) Peace is the necessary condition of the achievement of human progress and develop-  ment. From this universal forum, we call for an end to the bloodshed and psychological  and material devastation resulting from the fierce war between Iraq and Iran. We pray that  logic, reason and the interests of both the peoples concerned will lead them to make peace.  For peace does not imply the defeat of one party, but a calming of emotions and an assump-  tion of responsibility. The voice of reason must triumph in order for that region to  resume its participation in the shaping of world civilization through its human, material  and cultural resources.
(19.16) Mr President, I hereby express my satisfaction with the fields level of co-operation  between Unesco and ALECSO in various fields as a result of the agreement between the two.  Most of the credit for this is due to the collaboration of the Director-General. Great  headway has been made in the co-operation between the two organizations, which began years  ago and has continued to increase with unvarying success. By virtue of such co-operation,  the two organizations have been able to realize joint projects in the Arab region which  have been real examples of integration, leading to savings of time, effort and money.
(19.17) A number of joint committees have been established, joint studies in various fields  carried out and joint conferences and seminars organized. It gives us great pleasure to  express our complete confidence in this co-operation and our determination to pursue it.  Here, I must not neglect to emphasize the fact that we welcome projects aimed at achieving  wider use of the Arabic language as an official language in Unesco. We in the region hope  that this language, with its unique cultural history, its extraordinary potential and  genius, and its spiritual influence on thousands of millions of people, may take its place  among the languages more frequently used in Unesco in its various fields of activity.
(19.18) Mr President, I should like, in this connection, to convey special greetings to  the Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow,whose ability, performance, impartiality,  courage and wisdom have consistently shown him to be worthy of his responsible position.  With his leadership qualities, and with the assistance of Member States that fully compre-  hend Unesco's mission and the effectiveness of its universal activities, he has been able  to make this Organization one of mankind's hopes of salvation. And although this great  Organization may, from time to time, be the target of biased media campaigns<dealing with  marginal aspects of the life of the Organization in an attempt to tarnish its reputation,  .our absolute confidence in its-role and in the leadership of the Director-General, who has  demonstrated his objective ability to perceive the real needs of peoples and his under-  standing of elevated human aspirations, will be a strong support against all attempts to  weaken the international work directed by this capable and courageous man committed to the  causes of nations.
(19.19) Thank you for your attention. Peace and God's mercy and blessings be upon you.
(20.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  kind congratulations and hope I shall live up to his expectations.
(20.2) I now give the floor to the head of the Spanish delegation, H.E. Mr José María  Maravall, Minister of Education and Science.  I thank the Director-General of ALECSO for his remarks. I also thank him for his
(21.1) Mr MARAVALL (Spain) (Translation from the Spanish) :  should like to begin by extending to you, Mr President, Spain"s hearty congratulations on  your election to preside over the discussions of this twenty-second session of the General  Conference of Unesco. In electing you the Organization's Member States rightly show their  recognition of the role conferred by history to your country within the group of the Arab  countries. For Spain, this recognition is both intellectual and emotional, based on  feelings of fraternity.  my delegation to the countries that have recently joined Unesco in its task and whose  presence will enhance our activities.
(21.2) The tasks before us, Mr President, are set in a context that is all the more dra-  matic since, in the words of the Director-General of our Organization, 'while more and more  voices can be heard insisting on the need for global, concerted action associating all  countries on a worldwide scale,actual events are ceaselessly multiplying the causes of  tension and disquiet'.
(21.3) It is somewhat difficult for Spain and its government to pronounce on all the indi-  vidual proposals made by the Director-Generai in the Draft Programme and Budget for execu-  tion in the important first biennium of the Second Medium-Term Plan without first re-stating  in the presence of all Member States the question which is basic to our activity: do we all,  as Member States of Unesco, have the firm determination to maintain inviolable a ,sphere of  international collaboration in the fields of education, science, culture and communication?  This is not simply a rhetorical question. Only if the answer is in the affirmative can our  work bear fruit and successfully create the climate of opinion we seek to promote from  Unesco throughout the world.
(21.4) My Government is naturally convinced that the answer to this question can only be  in the affirmative and that we should continue to interpret in the most liberal possible  way the principles underlying the agreement which established our Organization at the end  of the Second world War.
(21.5) There is no doubt that in the years that have passed since 16 November 1945, when  Unesco was born, our search for intellectual and moral solidarity has suffered severe trials  and setbacks. In an effort to put our Organization's lofty ideals into practice we have  all too often sacrificed the persevering search for basic solidarity on the altar of 'poli-  tical and economic agreements between governments'. We can view with pride the beneficial  effects on coexistence and international understanding obtained as a result of large-scale  decolonization, challenged only by a very small number of territories, anachronistic relics  of past injustice and purblindness. But it must also be admitted that action to promote  development, far from becoming the great adventure of the century and a prelude to a new  era for mankind, has degenerated into parsimonious 'agreements' grudgingly negotiated and  frequently submerged in a sea of recriminations.  harsh and persistent) have sufficed to divert our energies from seeking bases for solidarity  on to the shifting sands of isolationism and protectionism. This situation has been com-  pounded by an international context of growing tension and alarming threats to an interna-  tional community whose foundations should be peace, solidarity, mutual respect among peo-  ples, the promotion of collective development and well-being, which should be guided, in  short, by reason, culture and the paramount principles of equity and freedom. In this  international forum of education, culture and science, my delegation reiterates its condem-  nation of all violations of human rights, of all interference in the internal affairs of  peoples against their free own will or against their right to self-determination.  violation of these principles is symbolized not only in the violent and tragic death of the  Prime Minister of Grenada and several of his ministers, including the Minister of Education,  but also by the invasion of his country, which has led to an increase in international  tension which we must all denounce.
(21.6) Mr President, on this subject my country wishes to offer a few words of encourage-  ment and hope. Though a latecomer to the dialogue which gave birth to Unesco, Spain never-  theless believes that historically speaking the time has now come for it to respond to  doubts, hesitations and inpending dangers by reformulating the answer to the question. I  stated above. While at the end of the war the countries of the world were laying the foun-  dations of a new world order, Spain was experiencing in isolation the after-effects of a  deep and agonizing tragedy, resulting in years of silence and unproductiveness. But Spanish  society succeeded in recovering its strength and laying the foundations of a mere worth-  while future. The word of encouragement and hope that Spain can now cffer, at a time when  intellectual and moral co-operation among the peoples finds itself at the crossroads, stems  precisely from Spain's own recent history. If Spain today declares itself unequivocally in  favour of broad and mutually supportive international co-operation in the intellectual  Mr President, Mr Director-General, heads of delegation, ladies and gentlemen: I  I should also like to extend greetings and a welcome on behalf of  The winds of economic 'crisis (admittedly  The
522    field, it is because it is aware that its regained democracy,is neither an inexplicable  miracle nor simply due to the passage of time; it is, first and foremost, the result of a  long struggle to achieve human rights and recover freedoms, to put an end to prejudices and  dogmatism, to libera-te the forces of the spirit, to restore their full dignity to workers  and to listen to the voice of intellectuals. Thus Spain has today fully cleared the way  for its determination to achieve democracy, diversity and progress under a constitutional  monarchy. It is exactly one year ago today that the Spanish people registered their  massive support for a socialist government: a government led by young people but one which  is heir to the traditions of dialogue, social progress and cultural advancement which  should guide us in solving our problems today.
(21.7) Let us look on co-operation not as a battlefield in which opposing ideologies and  interests cancel each other out, but as offering a horizon full of hope, in which we shall  overcome our narrow views and pool our efforts and wills to bring about juster and more  worthy societies.
(21.8) Since the Spanish Government considers Unesco as a specially suitable forum for  international co-operation, it has paid great attention to its position on the various  items of the agenda of this twenty-second session of the General Conference.
(21.9) The Spanish Government declares itself on the whole in favour of the proposals  made by the Director-General, and takes this opportunity of expressing to him again its  confidence and gratitude. While Spain has always seen in Mr M'BOW an indefatigable servant  of the international community working for a juster future, today more than ever it wishes  to pay tri.bute to his deep intellectual and moral qualities.
(21.10) In my Government's view, the problems of education, science and culture are of  particular importance. Hence it is not surprising that there exists a special concordance  between the tasks Unesco has set itself and our own priorities. Our President, Felipe  González, has said time and again that if there was one thing he would like his Government  to be remembered for it would be for its action in the field of education.
(21.11) I now propose precisely to draw attention to the convergence between some of  Unesco's activities and our own action, at the same time making comments on the programmes.
(21.12) It is our conviction, and one shared by all nations which today identify themselves  with a model of advanced democracy, that educational action should not reproduce privilege  and inequality,andthatthe greatest benefits provided by the State should not be aimed at  the higher income groups in a society. In the view of the Government of which I form a  part, this widely recognized principle should be reinforced.by another principle, namely  that education has an important responsibility in combating social inequality and in pro-  viding equal opportunities for children and young citizens. It is not enough to mete out  equal treatment to all, equal and unequal alike. We musttake determinedaction toconcentrate  our efforts on those most in need of them. In this way we shall succeed abolishing a  law which has never been committed to writing, but which unfortunately applies throughout  the world, dividing citizens into two categories: those who look forward to a promising  future thanks to thgir educational opportunities and those who are condemned from birth to  be educational dropouts with no future before them. Poor educational facilfties are con-  centrated in 'pockets' that can be precisely defined, either socially or geographically.  To deal with them we are introducing a number of programmes from which we hope to obtain  not only useful results for our country but experience that could be of value to others.
(21.13) Another of 'our objectives, entirely in keeping with Unesco's tasks, is ?he eradi-  cation of illiteracy. Although this problem is possibly not as acute in our country as in  other Member States, it does exist as a social scourge which deprives many of our citizens,  usually elder citizens, of the most basic right and the most fundamental freedom, namely  the ability to make out the written word and understand for oneself what is going on  around one. The socialist Government will not cease its efforts until it has extended the  right to education to these citizens.
(21.14) Turning to another topic, the establishment of an institute for women's studies,  planned for the beginning of next year, will provide for institutional consideration of any  action required to end discrimination between the sexes.
(21.15) All the foregoing activities are very closely related to Major Programme II, and  in our view, as I stated earlier, they meet one of my Government's major priorities, which  is the provision of a worthy education to all, of a type which will be instrumental in  redressing social inequalities based on pupils' backgrounds. The Spanish Parliament is  at present debating a bill on the right to education, which should be decisive for the  harmonious development of all the rights and freedoms embodied in the structure of the  educational model established by the Spanish Constitution: these are in the first place  the rights and freedoms of pupils, but they are also inseparable from the participation of  parents and teachers in the management and supervision of establishments financed from  public funds. We believe that active parent and teacher participation provides the best  'I-ULULLCLL ~c:~c::rupiiirii~ üí iiir rights anã freedoms related to education and that it  should result in improving the quality of education.
(21.16) Improving the quality of education is the second of the two corner--tones on which  our activity is based. It is not enough to extend education to cover a wider public, its  quality must also be improved. More effective teacher-training processes; action, either  spontaneous or sponsored by State institutions to encourage the regeneration of educational  practice; adequate remuneration for teachers and the provision of improved facilities, are  all required to contribute to the attainment of this end.
(21.17) In this connection, I should say that we have embarked on a number of activities  connected with Major Programmes IV and V, in particular the reforms which we have intro-  duced in the training and further training of teachers. The application of the educational  sciences to the renewal of the education system is in our view one of the best means of  achieving the desired improvement. Our activities include support for and assistance to  ,-,7,3-2-L?,- s-- CL.. ;I ---- 7------.
523    the work of movements for the renewal of education which, originating with teachers them-  selves, are achieving results which are not only qualitatively worthy of the greatest res-  pect but have recently also substantially extended their quantitative coverage. Experience  has shown us that self-training is one of the most effective forms of further training,  provided it is accompanied by the necessary support, not only as regards teaching materials  and other facilities but also as regards incentives of all kinds.
(21.16) Another of the major tasks in which we are involved is the reform of all types  of secondary education in order to attain an improvement in quality and more adequate pre-  paration for the passage to adult life and integration into the world of work. The aim is  to provide young people with a type of education as individuals, citizens and vocational  workers, that is adapted to the requirements of modern times: also to do away with dis-  crimination at an early age due to the twofold system which separated general education  from vocational education from the age of fourteen onwards.
(21.19) As re'gards higher education, our Parliament has recently passed a University Reform  Law which is also aimed at establishing a framework for the renewal of academic life, at  both the teaching and the research levels, which are inseparable, so as to raise the intel-  lectual and scientific level of our universities and be more responsive to the needs of a  rapidly developing society.
(21.20) My country is also involved in a vast process of decentralization and transfer of  responsibilities in all areas to the Autonomous Regions. I consider this to be in many  ways unique experiment, which will take a long time to complete, and which profoundly  affects the fields of education, science and culture.
(21.21) One aspect of this process is the revitalization of culture and the languages of  the various nationalities, in particular Catalan, Basque and Galician.
(21.22) Education, science .and culture should be first and foremost a vehicle for under-  standing and communication between men and women and as such one of the best ways of pro-  moting freedom. Hence the exceptional value of Major Programmes XII and XII1 and the over-  rididg need to implement them effectively. Education for peace and international under-  stánding is a solid bulwark and the best investment in the struggle against all forms of  oppression and in settling conflicts among nations. But to achieve this,men and women  must be provided with the instruments that will enable them to form their own judgements  and make rational choices. Here the teaching of science at all levels is of paramount  importance, provided that science is understood not as a mere accumulation of knowledge  or-the acquisition of a set of techniques, but above all as an instrument for understanding  both the physical and the social world. We think therefore that Unesco should strengthen  its activity on these lines, promoting programmes which will help to introduce and dis-  seminate scientific thought and the scientific spirit at all educational Levels, as a form  of 'scientific literacy education', not aimed .solely at producing better scientists and  more efficient technicians, but also at training citizens better equipped to think for  themselves, to understand the environment in which they live and to make their choices with  a maximum of freedom. Unreserved support should be given to everything that can contri-  butetopromoting education that makes people freer, more capable of judgement and more  rational.
(21.23) My country attaches particular importance to co-operation among countries as  regards education, science and culture, both bilaterally and multilaterally. While such  co-operation should not exclude any country, I hope you will understand that the Spanish  Government lays special emphasis on its co-operation with the Latin American countries,  which are sisters in language, culture and outlook.
(21.24) In respect of the Latin American nations, I should like to mention the offer that  .Spain made in Saint Lucia of a special contribution to the Major Project on Education in  Latin America and the Caribbean. I am also pleased to recallhere that at the lastmeetingof  the Ministers of the 'Andrés Bello' Convention my country's delega5ion offered to sponsor  a meeting for joint consultation among the specialized international bodies of the area.  This meeting took place very recently in Madrid and was attended by representatives of the  'Andrés Bello' Convention, the Central American Educational and Cultural Co-ordination  .%stem, the Ibero-American Bureau of Education, the Organization of American States and  Unesco-OREALC.
(21.25) Mr President, my Government and the Spanish scientific community have read with  pleasure the Director-General's proposals in the field of science, not only the natural  sciences but also the social and human sciences. This emphasis on the importance of  science as basic to'ünesco's activity is, indeed, found throughout the activities proposed  within each of the major programmes. What is mostoutstanding in Unesco's work is precisely  the effort to endow all aspects of its action with a sound scientific basis. Programmes  such as the International Geological Correlation Programme, the International Hydrological  Programme and the Programme on Man and the Biosphere, among others, represent outstanding  successes for Unesco, their achievements being fully appreciated by Member States in view  of their many and varied applications. Convinced of the importance of this task of Unesco,  undertaken joiatry with the scientific community, my Government views with great hope the  renewed impetus given in the Programme and Budget for 1964-1965 to scientific co-operation  in the field of the social sciences.
(21.26) A great deal still remains to be done in the field of scientific co-operation.  The preparation of plans for major regional scientific prcNgrammes has not met with full  succ,ess, nor has sufficient progress been made in the field of devising joint schemes for  the'natural sciences and the social and human sciences. Unesco, in its comparative isola-  tiofi from events in national academic communities, has all the basic arguments and reasons  for giving greater impetus to scientific activities in aspects which require a comprehensive  and forward-looking view. We cannot allow the new international society and the new inter-  national economy that will be born from the scientific revolution now in progress to pro-  duce even greater division or differences among the community of nations, or new forms of  dependence and marginalization actually within individual national cultures.
(21.27) On another subject, the Spanish Government welcomes Unesco's plan for a Major  Programme devoted to peace, international understanding, human rights and the rights of  peoples. Moreover, I should like to underscore the enormous importance it accords to the  effective extension and consolidation of freedom of expression as a basic individual human  right, including freeäom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and  impart information and ideas regardless of frontiers.
(21.28) My Government is also aware of other aspects which have points of intersection with  the lines of the Organization's programmes, especially those relating to special population  groups which for structural or historical reasons find themselves excluded from society or  which have special problems. Here special attention should be paid to youth. We should  have a clear awareness of the fact that the problem of young people is indissociable from  the society in which they live, the society which we will bequeath to them. In many of  our countries there are dangers of a split between the aspirations of young people, the  world of culture, and the world of politics, often widely separated from each other, and  with which young people have difficulty in identifying. The danger is even greater in a  situation of profound economic crisis such as the one we are now experiencing. We cannot  allow this split to occur. It is not a question of 'saving' young people from a problem  which lies with them, but of integrating them in the context of a freer, more creative,  more enriching and shared culture which will give new meaning to a civilization that will  emerge beyond the difficulties of the present time. With International Youth Year ahead,  the success of which calls for a particularly well prepared contribution from Unesco, we  wish to express our special appreciation of the work conducted by the Director-General in  summarizing in a separate document all the activities relating to youth in the Medium-Term  Plan. My Government wishes explicitly to endorse the activities planned in this field, and  at the same time to inform the Director-General of its proposal that the International  Youth Congress planned for 1985 should be held in Spain. I take this opportunity of offer-  ing our maximum co-operation to this end. 5-
(21.29) To conclude, Mr President, I should like to revert to the ideas that I expressed  at the beginning of my speech. Unesco's possibilities for action are great, as great as  the possibilities of progress for mankind, but the scarcity of available resources con-  strains us in the selection and formulation of programmes. In this connection, Spain  supports the alternatives proposed by the Director-General, always provided that their  implementation respects the universal principles of the Constitotion. Lastly, may I reite-  rate my faith in the intellectual and moral values that guide the Organization's action.  My country would like to express again its confidence in the Organization and to repeat  its Government's offer of firm co-operation. Thank you, Mr Presidelit.
(22.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  his congratulations.
(22.2) I would like to ask delegates, once again,to limit themselves to the time allotted  for each speaker, in pursuance of the objectives of the General Conference.
(22.3) I now give the floor to the last speaker at this meeting, the head of the Italian  delegation, Mr. Dominico Amalfitano, Under Secretary of State for the Ministry of Education.  I thank the head of the Spanish delegation for his remarks. I al50 thank him for
23.1 M. AMALFITANO (Italie) (discours prononcé en italien, texte français  fourni par la délégation) :  Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi en prenant la parole de vous exprimer  mes félicitations les plus chaleureuses pour votre élection au poste de président,  d'où vous dirigez nos travaux avec autorité et courtcisie. Avant de présenter les  commentaires de la délégation italienne sur l'ensemble des proqrammes de l'Organi-  sation, je voudrais rendre hommage à celui qui, avec foi, lucidité et courage,  assume de si lourdes responsabilités dans l'élaboration et la mise en oeuvre de  ces programmes, M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, dont le Président de la République fran-  çaise a si bien dit qu'il est à la fois homme de culture et homme des cultures.
23.2 A sa vingt-deuxième session, la Conférence générale est appelée å se pro-  noncer sur le premier programme biennal qui permettra d'entamer concrètement la  mise en oeuvre du deuxième Plan à moyen terme de notre Organisation. C'est là un  acte de foi, un engagement å regarder hardiment vers l'avenir, à prendre la mesure  du long terme, qui est celle du développement de l'homme et de tout ce qui se ré-  fère à l'homme, et à repousser ainsi la tentiation du découragement, du vil repli  sur 1 ' immédiat , le contingent , le "particulier".
23.3 Cet acte de foi revêt plus de signification encore si l'on considère que  le deuxième Plan à moyen terme a été rédigé en ayant présents à l'esprit les pro-  blèmes du monde actuel et qu'il veut être une contribution à la solution de ces  problèmes. C'est là une vision du monde qui suppose une volonté d'agir dans le  monde non pas en usant de moyens purement techniques, mais en faisant appel à  toutes les ressources de l'homme.
23.4 Voilà un défi, une confrontation avec la réalité, pour une organisation  qui depuis bientôt quarante ans s'est donné pour tâche institutionnelle de cons-  truire les défenses de la paix dans le plus profond des consciences, là où s'enra-  cinent les préjugés, les égoïsmes qui empêchent de percevoir et de respecter les  droits de l'autre, donc de comprendre l'autre, de dialoguer et de coopérer avec lui.
23.5 La construction de la paix sur la base solide du respect des droits de  l'homme, dont on ne saurait se passer, reste donc le point de repère, la pierre  angulaire de la mise en oeuvre du programme de l'Unesco, de son ensemble comme  de ses différentes parties. C'est elle qui donne une finalité claire et évidente,  un poids spécifique aux différents projets entre lesquels le programme est articulé.
23.6 La construction de la paix ne doit pas s'épuiser en conjurations rhéto-  riques, en une invocation arbitraire ou déformante, qui engendrent réactions ou  différends, ni se laisser décolorer par les ambiguïtés au point d'aplatir les dif-  férentes réalités. Elle requiert au contraire une force lucide de jugement, condi-  tion d'une généreuse ouverture à la collaboration entre des réalités différentes,  à la coexistence entre des réalités qui s'opposent, C'est donc de cette conception  que doit s'inspirer toute initiative de l'Unesco visant à créer les bases d'une  authentique culture de paix, acceptable par les opinions publiques de tous les  pays. Or, ces dernières sont au contraire parfois soumisesà des campagnes de pro-  pagande ayant un contenu principalement émotionnel. Vivre et agir dans une réalité  pluraliste est l'un des engagements fondamentaux que les Etats ont pris quand ils  ont créé l'Unesco ou en sont devenus membres.
23.7 Les problèmes des droits de l'homme et de la paix revêtent, par leur nature,  un caractère global, et c'est la globalité du programme de l'Unesco qui doit, d'une  manière concrète et active, leur apporter une réponse. Les projets qui se rapportent  spécifiquement à ces problèmes retiennent notre attention sans la monopoliser, sans  toutefois nous faire oublier l'apport irremplaçable d'autres projets dans différents  secteurs, lesquels concrétisent l'aspiration commune à la justice, à la liberté, à  une égale dignité.
23.8 C'est dans cet esprit que nous nous réjouissons de l'accent mis sur l'éduca-  tion dans le Projet de programme. Face à la dramatique augmentation du nombre des  analphabètes dans le monde, par suite du développement démographique et malgré les  grands efforts que l'Unesco déploie en permanence pour l'endiguer, le problème qui  se pose - problème qui nécessite une action de longue haleine au plan politique -  est d'offrir comme but essentiel à la formation humaine, sous toutes les latitudes,  ce que je me permettrai d'appeler le savoir minimal garanti, c'est-à-dire la pos-  session des connaissances indispensables pour vivre en homme libre dans le monde  d' aujourd'hui.
23.9 Pareil objectif vaut aussi pour les pays industrialisés qui pourraient  paraître à l'abri d'un tel danger, si ce n'est que la complexité même des situa-  tions sociales des pays avancés engendre des analphabétismes nouveaux auxquels il  faut faire face. Ils s'étendent du Nord au Sud à tous les pays et, partant, touchent  les surfaces les plus grandes du monde. Elaborer une stratégie programmée est donc,  de l'avis de l'Italie, une tâche prioritaire pour laquelle nous sommes prêts à ap-  porter notre contribution.
23.10 C'est dans ce contexte que se situe le thème important de la révolution  informatique qui a été illustré avec vigueur par le Directeur général. Mon pays  a déjà, depuis longtemps, élaboré Urie culture de l'infcrmatique. Nous considérons  en conséquence que nous devons non seulement appuyer toute initiative de l'Unesco  dans ce domaine, initiative qui, nous en sommes certains, ne se déploiera pas au  détriment d'organismes qui existent déjà comme l'IB1, mais au contraire viendra  l'enrichir encore de ce que l'on appelle l'informatique diffusée. C'est en effet  celle-ci qui, se servant des résultats de la technologie la plus avancée, met la  machine, par elle-même aliénante, au niveau de l'homme. Le secteur de l'éducation,  de plus en plus touché par le développement de micro-informatique, sera la pierre  angulaire d'une formation où l'homme domine la machine et ne soit pas dominé par  elle.
23.11 En ce qui concerne toujours le domaine de l'éducation, je voudrais me ré-  férer à un point spécifique, particulièrement significatif : les Ecoles associées.  Nous suivons cette expérience avec intérêt, car nous pensons qu'elle peut effica-  cement stimuler la formation des générations nouvelles dans un esprit de compré-  hension et de solidarité.
23.12 Dans le même esprit, je voudrais aussi souligner l'importance, pour ce qui  concerne l'éducation, des activités prévues dans le cadre du grand programme XII,  relatif à l'élimination des préjugés. I1 s'agit d'une lutte qui a accompagné et  qui accompagne la prise de conscience, au niveau mondial, de la dignité de chaque  homme et de l'intangibilité de ses droits.
23.13 La première apparition historique de cette prise de conscience coïncide  avec l'affirmation du concept de tolérance, qui est élaboré et développé au cours  du XVIIIe siècle, quand, au nom de la raison, les philosophes des lumières invi-  taient les gouvernements despotiques ou tyranniques à faire des concessions dans  le domaine des droits de l'homme et cherchaient à se gagner comme alliée, dans une  telle action, une opinion sensible éclairée. Ceux qui soutenaient les conceptions  nouvelles se trouvaient face, d'une part, à un pouvoir despotique qui ne connais-  sait pas de limites à ses droits et de l'autre à des masses analphabètes qui  n'avaient même pas la notion juridique de leurs propres droits.
23.14 Aujourd'hui, par rapport à l'universalité des droits proclamés par la  Déclaration universelle des droits de l'homme et consacrés dans la Constitution  de différents Etats, la notion même de tolérance apparaît dépassée.
23.15 Comme l'a soutenu devant le Conseil exécutif M. l'ambassadeur Pompei, il  semblerait opportun de remplacer cette notion par celle du respect mutuel, fondée  sur l'égale dignité de tous les êtres humains.
23.16 La notion de respect est à la base d'uneméthodologie de confrontationcor-  recte, qui est le dialogue entre les personnes et les grclupes. Le respect de  l'autre suppose que l'on prête attention aux raisons de l'autre sans pour autant  perdre de vue ses propres raisons. Cette manière de poser le problème permet de  passer d'une attitude négative à une attitude positive et d'établir sur des bases  correctes à la fois la confrontation et la coopération entre individus, groupes,  peuples.
23.17 Une des réalités sociales, humaines, culturelles OU le saut qualitatif que  représente le passage du concept de tolérance à la pratique du respect pourrait  trouver une occasion privilégiée de vérification expérimentale, de mise er. oeuvre  et d'un nouvel essor, est celle qui découle de la présence d'importantes communau-  tés d'émigrants dans des pays étrangers. I1 s'agit là d'un phénomène répandu,  d'une considérable importance humaine, politique et culturelle, plus encore qu'éco-  nomique, auquel l'Unesco depuis plusieurs années attache une attention à laqEelle  je tiens à rendre hommage en tant que représentant d'un pays qui est fortement  touché par le phénomène de l'émigration.
23.18 Le saut qualitatif dans l'approche de la problématique complexe des commu-  nautés migrantes consiste à cesser de les enfermer dans des qhettos et d'en faire  des groupes marginaux. Cela ne doit pas se faire par une simple intégration OU un  nivellement, mais à travers la mise en valeur de la culture dont les émigrants sont  porteurs et, partant, à travers la promotion d'une éducation interculturelle qui,  fondée sur le respect des valeurs culturelles d'origine du migrant, les considère  comme un enrichissement et un complément de celles de la société hôte. La théma-  tique des problèmes des émigrants est dans une large mesure valable aussj en ce  qui concerne les réfugiés, auxquels à juste titre l'Unesco accorde la plus grande  attention.
23.19 Je voudrais maintenant consacrer quelques considérations à une thématique  à laquelle mon pays a toujours accordé la plus grande importance - celle qui a  trait au patrimoine culturel. Une longue et intense communion d'idéaux culturels  et d'impératifs pratiques a vu l'Italie associée à l'action de l'Unesco et l'Unesco  à l'action de l'Italie. I1 suffit de penser à Venise, qui est devenue avec Abou  Simbel presque une référence symbolique pour l'ensemble des activités de sauvegarde  inspirées et promues par l'Unesco dans le monde entier.
23.20 Ces dernières années, nous avons assisté à une prise de conscience, d'une  part, de l'universalité du patrimoine culturel et! de l'autre: du lien trBs @+roi+  entre le patrimoine culturel et l'identité culturelle. Cette prise de conscience  a aussi été stimulée par l'action normative de l'Unesco, particulièrement valable  et éclairée dans ce domaine.
23.21 I1 s'agit maintenant de faire encore un pas en avant, sur le plan qualita-  tif, par un approfondissement du concept même de bien culturel, considéré non pas  comme un objet isolé digne d'étude et d'une protection amoureuse, mais comme l'ex-  pression d'une plus vaste aire géoculturelle homogène.
23.22 Nous savons d'expérience combien il est difficile, quand on est dépositaire  d'un patrimoine culturel, artistique et naturel considérable, de le défendre des  assauts conjugués du temps et de la spéculation.
23.23 Les biens culturels pris individuellement pourront en conséquence être rat-  tachés à un ensemble grâce à une idée guide, à un fil conducteur qui puisse révéler  comment ils s'insèrent organiquement dans l'histoire de la culture, ouverte vers
23.24 Les différents projets feront ainsi partie de programmes plus amples, soli-  dement étayés par une documentation historique et scientifique. Ils engendreront  aussi bien des centres de documentation que des centres de formation de spécia-  listes, ils pourront être eri liaison avec l'artisanat traditionnel - constituant  un ensemble d'activités cohérentes et organiques desquelles tout le prctgramme de  l'Unesco dans ce domaine pourra tirer un essor ultérieur.
23.25 A nos yeux, la région de la Méditerranée assume une importance et un rôle  significatifs à cet égard. En effet, le passé, dont témoigne un patrimoine artis-  tique inestimable, y est rendu toujours actuel par une remarquable continuité  culturelle qui permet des rencontres et des collaborations riches de promesses.
23.26 C'est dans cette optique et même avec des finalités plus vastes que  l'Italie a manifesté son intérêt pour la création d'un bureau de liaison de  l'Unesco à Rome, auquel elle est disposée à apporter la contribution nécessaire.
23.27 Dans son action de sauvegarde, d'une part, et de prise de conscience,  d'autre part, l'Unesco répond aux finalités de son Acte constitutif et aux attentes  que son action même a suscitées. Elle se montre telle qu'elle doit être au service  de la culture, une culture qui doit être toujours plus rigoureusement défendue  contre toute tentative d'exploitation. La culture est en effet une fin mais n'est  jamais un instrument, fût-il le plus noble.
23.28 Ce rappel ne doit pas être considéré comme un pléonasme, puisque nombreux  sont ceux qui craignent à juste titre, même sur le plan international, l'interven-  tion des pouvoirs d'Etat qui, à une époque de développement technologique prodi-  gieux, peuvent disposer d'instruments de contrôle toujours plus sophistiqués.
23.29 Cette importante réflexion s'applique au même titre et sans doute à plus  forte raison à l'intervention de 1'Etat dans le domaine de la communication, qui  peut servir à manipuler l'opinion.
23.30 D'autre part je me réjouis de l'importance que le programme accorde à la  communication, convaincu que je suis qu'il est prc'bablement vrai, comme on le dit,  qu'après l'ère de la consommation nous allons vivre l'ère de la communication.
23.31 Ce que je viens de dire au sujet du patrimoine culturel commun de l'huma-  nité nous amène forcément à évoquer notre non moins commune appartenance au milieu  naturel. A juste titre, l'Unesco ne sépare point ces deux aspects et accorde une  grande importance au développement du Programme sur l'homme et la biosphère (MAB)  qui relève du secteur des activités scientifiques, mais qui est inspiré et motivé  par une conception largement interdisciplinaire. Je voudrais saisir ici l'occasion  d'exprimer ma pleine adhésion non seulement au Parograme MAB, mais aussi à l'en-  semble des activités scientifiques de l'Unesco.
23.32 Je viens de faire allusion à l'approche interdisciplinaire et je voudrais  ajouter quelque chose à ce sujet. Une des caractéristiques principales, et la vraie  nouveauté de ce vingt-deuxième programme biennal de l'Unesco, est qu'ai: lieu d'être  articulé en secteurs disciplinaires, il regroupe les activités, en fonction de leur  convergence, au sein de grands programmes.
23.33 Ce regroupement a été opéré pour mettre en oeuvre la résolution adoptée  par la Conférence générale, fruit de débats compliqués et de réflexions approfon-  dies, qui demandait précisément que le programme ait une structure interdiscipli-  naire. Un pas important, certes, a été fait dans cette nouvelle direction, mais il  nous semble qu'il s'agit plutôt d'un effort de liaison intersectorielle que d'une  véritable approche interdisciplinaire.
23.34 C'est comme si on avait habilement tenté de tisser des liens entre les  problèmes, alors que c'est de l'analyse de la globalité complexe des problèmes  en question que devrait jaillir la globalité articulée de la réponse. L'approche  interdisciplinaire doit être fonction du problème et être inspirée et dictée par  lui,
23.35 Je voudrais à ce propos citer l'exemple des trois grands programmes rela-  tifs à l'éducation, qui portent des titres particulisrement évocateurs : "L'éduca-  tion pour tous" , "Conception et mise en oeuvre des politiques de 1 ' éducation" ,  "Education, formation et société".
23.36 Ces trois titres découpent une thématique qui, par sa nature, est globale  et exige partant une réponse globale, comme celle qui trouve sa substance et son
528    expression dans l'idée d'éducation permanente, la seule qui, à notre avis, peut  concilier d'une manière logique, d'une part, l'ensemble des formes et modules édu-  catifs et, de l'autre, leur interpénétrabilité et leur interdépendance. Celle-ci  caractérise en outre les rapports entre l'homme et la nature, l'homme et la cul-  ture, l'homme et la société, l'homme et la production, tout cela dans le contexte  concret des différentes situations historiques, géographiques et sociales.
23.37 I1 nous semblerait opportun d'élaborer pour la prochaine session de la  Conférence générale de nouveaux projets relatifs à l'éducation ayant comme point  de départ la globalité des thématiques évoquées. Ces projets devraient être éla-  borés en tenant compte de l'ensemble des rapports entre l'éducation, la science,  la culture et la communication. Sur ce point précis, ma délégation a élaboré un  projet de résolution à soumettre à l'instance compétente.
23.38 Dans son effort pour élaborer des projets interdisciplinaires, l'Unesco  tient compte de l'évolution culturelle en cours. On peut en dire autant de l'en-  gagement de l'organisation dans la recherche de formules nouvelles d'action et de  collaboration susceptibles dans la pratique de saisir les problèmes et les tra-  duire en actes.
23.39 A cet égard, je voudrais réaffirmer que mon gouvernement envisage avec un  vif intérêt la perspective d'entreprises conjointes ("joint ventures"), déjà expé-  rimefitées avec de bons résultats dans les domaines de la science et de la techno-  logie. Elles doivent permettre d'asseoir sur 1' intérêt objectif ccimmun la collabo-  ration entre travailleurs et entreprises de pays industrialisés et de pays en  développement.
23.40 En ce qui concerne le Centre international de physique théorique de  Trieste, qui a accumulé une vaste et positive expérience, nous sommes heureux  que ce centre puisse offrir un exemple lumineux et utile. Nous disons cela avec  la conviction que la recherche du bien-être commun est la condition du bien-être  individuel et qu'il n'y a donc ni contradiction ni antagonisme dans la poursuite  du progrès commun.
23.41 En ce qui concerne le grand programme VIII, "Principes, méthodes et stra-  tégies de l'action pour le développement", il est évident que le passage de la  phase conceptuelle à une phase opérationnelle ne peut se faire qu'à travers une  approche intersectorielle et interdisciplinaire.
23.42 L'Unesco assume une tâche difficile et ambitieuse : être à la fois un  "laboratoire d'idées" et un instrument de vérification et de mise en oeuvre de  ces idées. C'est pour cela que le grand programme VI11 est un élément fondamental  dans cette grande structure d'ensemble qu'est le Projet de programme et de budget  que nous sommes en train d'examiner.
23.43 C'est en effet dans une action pour le développement harmonieuse et con-  centrée que le "projet politique" de l'Unesco, qui vise à établir la paix dans  l'esprit des homes, pourra trouver son épanouissement..
23.44 Car le plus grand danger d'une action pour le développement fondée unique-  ment sur l'aspect économique est qu'elle se limite à une aide ne consistant qu'en  apports de capitaux, sans tenir compte du facteur humain. Le facteur humain, en  effet, et la composante endogène doivent se voir accorder la plus grande attention  si l'on ne veut point aller au-devant de déceptions inexplicables et frustrantes  aussi bien pour les pays en développement que pour ceux qui ont consenti des ef-  forts et des sacrifices importants.
23.45 C'est dans cette optique qne le gouvernement italien a adhéré au Programme  des experts asscciés, a conclu des arrangements relatifs à des fonds-en-dépôt et  s'apprête à financer d'importants projets dans les secteurs de la communication et  des sciences. D'ailleurs, l'intérêt du gouvernement italien pour les problèmes de  développement est attesté par le fait que le budget du Département de la coopéra-  tion techniqiie, malgré l'austérité, n'a pas subi d'amputation et que les contri-  U~tiûzs w=lcztsiïzs Ss l' Italie au Tî;üû ont ~ürisidGr&ierrient augmenté, de même que  sa contribution au Centre de Trieste.
23.46 Monsieur le Président, c'est dans cet esprit de vive appréciation de l'en-  semble de l'oeuvre réalisée au service de l'humanité par l'Unesco, parlement cultu-  rel du monde entier, que nous exprimons la certitude qu'à l'avenir encore, notre  Organisation continuera à apporter une contribution toujours plus décisive à la  promotion sociale et culturelle des citoyens du monde que nous sommes tous.
(24.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  his congratulations.
(24.2) I declare this meeting adjourned.  I thank the head of the Italian delegation for his remarks. I also thank him for  The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h.30  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.30