Twenty-seventh plenary meeting
21 November 1983 at 10.15 a.m.  President: Mr TELL (Jordan)  Vingt-septième séance plénière
21 HORBPR 1983 r. B 10.15  IIpencenaTenb: r-H TEJIb (MopnaHWff)
1227    REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE: COMMISSION/  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION ADMINISTRATIVE /  INFORME DE LA COMISION ADMINISTRATIVA/  AOKJIAn A,JlMMHBCTPATMBHOl? KOMMCCMM/  ?+ w .&-,I~~I bj-u~ k,. j+ +ai .UJI ,at .i + I +  , J I-G \,i  . '+-u1 3F
(1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I declare the twenty-seventh plenary meeting open.
(1.2) I would like to say at the beginning of this meeting that we have now entered the  last stage of this General Conference. I hope that we shall be able to continue our work  in the same manner that has characterized it from the beginning.
(1.3) We shall now take up the first item on our agenda, which is the adoption of the  report of the Administrative Commission. We shall first consider the narrative part of the  report. Part I of the report, which deals with item 10 of the agenda of the General  Conference (Adoption of the provisional budget ceiling for 1984-1985), was, as you will  recall, adopted on 16 November 1983. We shall therefore now take up the text of Part II  and Part III, Sections 1 and 2 of document 22 C/113.
(1.4) Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to invite Mr Azzedine Guellouz, Chairman of the  Administrative Commission to introduce the Commission's report.
(2.1) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr President. I have the honour to present to the plenary meeting of  the General Conference the substance of the deliberations of the Administrative Commis-  sion. As you know, the Administrative Commission had 33 items on its agenda, but it has  nevertheless succeeded in completing its work withir the allotted time. This was due to  the spirit of co-operation exhibited by all its members, to whom I wish to extend my  congratulations and sincere appreciation.
(2.2) Mr President, at its second meeting the Commission proceeded to the election of  its Bureau, which is composed of four vice-chairmen and a rapporteur. The Vice-  Chairmen are Mr Krishna Raj Aryal (Nepal), Mr Hector Estrella-Polanco (Dominican Republic),  Mr Jean-Félix Loung (United Republic of Cameroon) and Mr P.A. Pavolovic (Yugoslavia),  On occasions when over short periods of time other pressing duties prevented me from  presiding over the Commission's deliberations, I was very ably replaced by each of the Vice-  Chairmen, taking the chair in rotation, for which I thank them sincerely.
(2.3) The Commission then elected as its Rapporteur Mr Carlos Neves Ferreira (Portugal).  It is no mere diplomatic courtesy but a statement of fact when I say here that it is due  to the efforts of Mr Neves Ferreira that I am able today to present to you a report which,  in my opinion, is a full and faithful account of the work of the Commission. The text  of the report was discussed in the Commission and adopted unanimously with only a few  minor amendments, which will be published in an addendum and corrigendum to document
(2.4) It is thus with a feeling of gratitude towards all the members of the Commission,  Mr President, that I introduce to the plenary meeting the narrative part of the report  of the Administrative Commission. This part is contained in documents 22 C/113,
22 C/113 Part II along with its Addendum and Corrigendum and 22 C/113 Part III,  Sections 1 and 2 which are now before the plenary meeting for its approval.
(3.1 ) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  the Administrative Commission for his clear and concise introduction of the Commission's  report.
(3.2) I now invite you to take note of the Introduction and Parts II and IIï of the  report as contained in document 22 C/113 and its Addendum and Corrigèndum, i.e. the  narrative part of the report.
(3.3) As there are no objections, I consider that the Generai Conference takes note  of the report.
(3.4) We shall now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the recommendations formulated  by the Administrative Commission.
(3.5) You will recall that the recommendation on budgeting techniques, which contains  the provisional appropriation figures for Parts VI1 and VI11 of document 22 C/5  and which is set forth in document 22 C/113 Annex-Aecommendations~, Part I, was adopted  at the plenary meeting on 16 November 1983.
(3.6) You will have noted, furthermore, that the recommendations of the Administrative  Commission concerning item 1 1  Consideration of the Draft Programe and Biidget for
1984-1985) are contained in the narrative text of Part II of the report. These recommend-  ati'ons relate to the appropriation figures for Parts I, IV, V and VI of document 22 C/5.  The Chairman of the Administrative Commission made it clear to the Commission that  its approval of the appropriation figures, .including those for Parts VI1 and VI11  of document 22 C/5, was conditional upon their being adjusted at the time of the final  adoption of the appropriation resolution, after examination by a joint meeting of the  Administrative Commission and the Programme Commissions. This is explicitly stated in  the narrative part of the report.
(3.7) May I thus assume that you wish to adopt these recommendations subject to any  adjustments which may be made when the Administrative and the Programme Commissions  meet jointly to consider the final appropriation resolution?
(3.8) It is so decided.  Ladies and gentlemen, on your hehalf P would like to thank the Chairman of
(3.9) Ladies and gentlemen, we can now turn our attention to the recommendations  contained in document 22 C/113 Part III, Annex-Recommendations, Sections 1 and 2  and Addendum and Corrigendum.
(3.10) I give the floor once again to Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative  Commission.
(4) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr President. I would like to point out here that, thanks to the  general spirit of understanding and co-operation which charact$rized our meetings  and deliberations and to which I referred earlier, the Commission was able to adopt ail  the recommendations before you, with only three exceptions, without a vote, either  unanimously or by consensus. The reservations that were voiced are recorded faithfully  and clearly in the narrative part of the report. Thank you, Mr President.  Item 35.1 - Wider use of the Russian language
(5.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):
22 C/113 Annex-Recommendations.
(5.2) I now give the floor to Mr Guelouz to introduce the recommendations on  item 35.1.  We shall first consider the recommendations contained in Section 1 of document
(6.1) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr.President. Under this item the Commission considered a draft  resolution submitted by the Soviet Union and a draft resolution proposed by the  Director-General. As further evidence of the spirit of co-operation that characterized  the work of the Commission, these two draft resolutions were amalgamated into the single  resolution which is contained in document 22 C/113 - Annex-Recommendations, Part III,  Section 1 - and more specifically as the text bearing the number 1 in document 22 C/ADM/2  Annex-Recommendations, Part III, Section 1, pages 1-2 - and which the Commission has  recommended for adoption by the General Conference.
(6.2) Allow me, Mr President, to give at this point an explanation that may help the  plenary meeting in using the documents and references before it. Document 22 C/113  Annex-Recommendations to which we are referring in fact contains the text of a part  of our draft report submitted to the Administrative Commission under the reference
22 C/ADM/2 Annex-Recommendations. Owing to the heavy work-load and the lack of time, the  draft resolutions adopted for the respective agenda items were listed in a non-consecu-  tive and imperfect order in this provisional document. I think that it would therefore  help for the delegates to locate the texts referred to if I indicated in each case the  number of the text and the page number - on the understanding that these numbers are  unofficial and provisional and that the texts should be identified by the General  Conference agenda item under which they are adopted. The draft resolution under  present consideration is the one submitted for agenda item 35.1 and my reference to page  and number is only to facilitate its identification. Thank you Mr President.
(7.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you for this clarification.
(7.2) As regards the subject of the wider use of the Russian language, if there are no  objections, I shall consider the draft resolution on item 35.1 as adopted.
(7.3) It is so decided.
(7.4) I now invite Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, to  introduce the recommendation concerning item 35.2.
27  Item 35.2 - Wider use of the Arabic language
(8 ) Mr GUELLOUZ, Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation from the  Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr President. The Commission has unanimously recommended that the  General Conference adopt the draft resolution on item 35.2 which bears the number 3  and appears on page 2 of the aforementioned document. Thank you, Mr President.
(9 ) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Germany.  Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Federal Republic of  IO. Mr GRUEBER (Federal Republic of Germany):  Mr President, with reference to document 22 C/113 Add. & Corr., Part III,  I find in this document under item 35.1--Wider use of the Russian language. report  by the Director-General, instructions to insert in paragraph 1 1 ,  before the last  sentence: 'He said that Unesco should be careful to avoid new forms of what he  tenred, "language hegemonialism" when introducing the use of. new languages'. This  refers to my comments in the Administrative Commission. In this Commission the  use of new languages was never discussed, and what I wanted to say was that we  should avoid anything that could be misunderstood as language hegemonalism when  expanding the use of the existing working languages. I think it is obvious  that the wider use of any language will automatically put at a disadvantage all  other languages which are not working languages of this Organization. That is  what I intended to say, and I find that what I said in the Commission and what  I said also when the report of the Commission was adopted has not been correctly  reflected here. So I suggest that this new sentence in paragraph 1 1  be reworded  to read: 'He said that Unesco should be careful to avoid new forms of what he  termed "language hegemonialism" when expanding the use of existing working  languages'. Thank you, Mr President.
(11.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  been noted.
(11.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider this draft resolution as adopted  by the General Conference.  (i 1.3) It is so decided
(11.4) I call upon Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Cornmission, to introduce  the recommendation on item 36.  I thank the representative of the Federal Republic of Germany. His comments have  Item 36 - Reduction of the volume of documentation for the General Conference
(12 ) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Arabic) :  Thank you Mr President. As is clear from the narrative part of the report on  this item, some members of the Commission expressed reservations regarding paragrauhs 4 (a)  and 4 (b) of the draft resolution. In fact, a vote was taken on paragraph 4 (b), which  was adopted by a majority of 14 to 9, with one abstention, following which the draft  resolution as a whole was adopted by 14 to O, with 10 abstentions. The text bears the  number 4 and appears on page 2 of the above-mentioned document. Thank you Mr President.
(13.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  against this draft resolution, may I take it that it is adopted by the plenary meeting as  well?
(13.2) It is so decided.
(13.3) I call upon Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, to introduce  the recommendation on item 37.1.  I thank the Chairman of the Administrative Commission. As no vote was cast  - Item 37.1 - Finaricial report and audited financial statements relating to t&  - accounts of Unesco for the financial period ended 31 December 198C,  and report by the External Auditor
(14 ) Mr GUELLGUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Arabic) :  Mr President, the Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference  adopt the draft resolution on item 37.1 which bears the number 5 and appears on page 3  of the document. Thank you Mr President.  ( 1  5.1 ) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  item 37.1 as unanimously adopted.  Thank you. If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolution on
(15.2) It is so decided.
(15.3) I now call upon Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, to  introduce the draft resolutions on items 37.2 and 37.4.
27  - Item 37.2 - Financial report and audited financial statements relating to the  United Nations Development Programme as at 31 December 1980, and  - Report by the ExternLAuditor,
1233    and  Item 37.4 - Financial report and auditedfinancial statements relating to  the United Nations Development Programme as at 31 December 1981,  and report by the External Auditor
(16 ) Mr GEULLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Arabic) :  Thank you Mr President. I must point out here that the documents relating to  these two items were already examined and approved at the 113th and 115th sessions of  the Executive Board in amordance with the authority granted by the General Conference to  the Executive Board in this regard. The Administrative Commission took note of these  documents and unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt the two draft reso-  lutions on items 37.2 and 37.4 respectively, the texts of which bear the numbers 6 and 8  and appear on page 3 of the above-mentioned document. Thank you Mr President.
(17.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  resolutions on items 31.2 and 37.4 as unanimously adopted.
(17.2) It is so decided.
(17.3) I now call upon Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, to  introduce the draft resolution on item 37.3.  Thank you, Mr Guellouz. If there are no objections, I will consider the draft  Item 37.3 -  ~ I _   Financial report and auditedinterim financial statements relating  - to the accounts Unesco as at 31 December 1981 for the financial  period ending 31 December 1983, and report by the External Auditor
(18 ) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr President. The Commission unanimously recommended that the General  Conference adopt the draft resolution on item 37.3 which bears the number 6 and appears  on page 3 of the same document. Thank you, Mr President.
31.3 as
(19.4)  I 9Ji  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  Thank you Mr Guellouz.  As there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolution on item  unanimously adopted.  It is so decided.  I call upon Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission to introduce  the recommendation on item 37.5.  Item 37.5 Financial report and audited interim financial statements relating to  the accounts of Unesco as at31 December 1982 for the financial period  ending 31 December 1983, a n d e p o r t  by the External Auditor
(20 ) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr President. In this regard, the Commission recommended unanimously  that the General Conference adopt the draft resolution on item 31.5 which bears the  number 9 and appears on page 3 of the same document. Thank you Mr President.
(21.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you Mr Guellouz.
(21.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolution on item
37.5 as unanimously adopted.
(21.3) It is so decided.  (;!1.4) I now call upon Mr Guellouz, Chairnian of the Administrative Conunission, to  introduce the recommendation on item 31.6.  Item 37.6 - Financial report and audited financial statements relating to the  United Nations Development Programme as at 31 December 1982, and  report by the External Auditor
(22 ) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic) :  Thank you Mr President. I should point out that the document concerning this  item has already been examined and approved at the 111th session of the Executive Board,  in accordance with the authority granted by the General Conference to the Executive  Board in this regard. 'The draft resolution on this item bears the number 10 and  appears on page 4 of the same document. Thank you Mr President.
(23.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  Thank you Mr Guellouz.
(23.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft'resolution on item 37.6  a5 unanimously adopted.
(23.3) It is so decided.
(23.4) I cali upon Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, to introduce  the recommendation on item 38.1.  Item 38.1 - Contributions of Member States: Currency of contributions -
(24 ) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic) :  Thank you Mr. President. The Commission unanimously recommended that the  General Conference adopt the draft resolution on item 38.1 which bears the number 9  and which is contained on pages 4-5 of the same document. Thank you, Mr President.
(25.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr Guellouz.
(25.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolution on item 38.1  as unanimously adopted.
(25.3) It is so decided.
(25.4) I call upon Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, to introduce  the recommendation on item 38.2.  - Item 38.2 - Contributions of Member States: collection of contributions
(26.1) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman Of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr President.
(26.2) In fact there are three draft resolutions relating to item 38.2, and the  Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt all of them. They  bear the numbers 10(1), (2) and (3) and appear on pages 5-6 of the same document. Thank  you, Mr President.
(27.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr Guellouz.
(27.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider the three draft resolutions on  item 38.2 as unanimously adopted.
(27.3) It is so decided.
(27.4) I call upon Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, to introduce  the recommendation on item 38.3.  Item 38.3 - Contributions of Member States: scale of contributions of Member  States
(28.1) Mr Guellouz (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr President.
(28.2) As is evident from the text of the report on this item, not all members of the  Commission felt they could accept paragraph 4 (a) of the proposed draft resolution. Thus  a vote had to be taken, whereupon the Commission recommended by 42 votes to 4, with 8  abstentions, that the General Conference adopt the draft resolution on item 38.3 which  bears the number 1 1  and appears on pages 6-9 of the above-mentioned document. Thank  you, Mr President.
(29.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr Guellouz.
(29.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolution on item 38.3 as  adopted. If, however, there is a request from the floor for a vote, I shall, of course,  entertain this and we shall then proceed to vote on the draft resolution.
(29.3) As no such request has been made, I consider the draft resolution as adopted.
(29.4) I call upon Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, to introduce  the recommendation on item 39.  Item 39 - Working Capital Fund: level and administration
(30 ) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Comthission (Translation  from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr President. In fact, two draft resolutions were presented under  this item and the Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt  both draft resolutions on item 39, which bear the numbers 2 and 13 and appear respectively  on pages 9-10 and 10 in the above-mentioned document. Thank you, Mr President.
(31.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr Guellouz.
(31.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resblutions on item 39  as unanimously adopted.
(31.3) It is so decided.
(31.4)  the recommendation on item 40: Proposals of the Director-General concerning the appoint-  ment of the External Auditor or the renewal of his tenure of office.  I now invite Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, to introduce  Item 40 - Proposals of the Director-General _____ concerni-ment ofkhg  External Auditor or the renewal of his tenure of office -
(32 ) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr President. The Commission unanimously recommended that the General  Conference adopt the draft resolution on item 40, which bears the number 14 and appears on  pages 10 and 1 1  of the same document. Thank you, Mr President.
(33.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr Guellouz.
(33.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolution on item 40  as unanimously adopted.
(33.3) It is do decided.
(33.4) I now invite Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, to introduce  the recomiendation on item 41.  Item 41 - Amendment of the Financial Regulations--abolition of audited i n t e e   accounts
(34 ) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr President. The Commission unanimously recommended that the General  Conference adopt the draft resolution on item 41, which bears the number 15 and appears  on pages 1 1  and 12 of the same document. Thank you, Mr President.
(35.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr Guellouz.
(35.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolution on item 41 as  unanimously adopted.
(35.3) It is so decided.
(35.4) I call upon Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission to introduce  the recommendation on item 42: Unesco Staff Compensation Fund.  Item 42 - gnesco Staff Compensation Fund
(36) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Arabic) :  The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt the draft  resolution on item 42, which bears the number 16 and appears on page 12 of the same  document. Thank you, Mr President.
(37.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  Thank you Mr Guellouz.
(37.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolution as unanimously  adopted.
(37.3) It is so decided.
(37.4) I call upon Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, to introduce  the recommendation on item 48: the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund.  General -___
(38 ) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr President. The Commission recommended unanimously that the General  the draft resolution on item 48 which bears the number 32 and Conference adopt  appears on page
(39.1) The PRZSIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr Guellouz.
(39.2) If there are no Objections on item 48, I shall consider the draft resolution as  adopted.
(39.3) It is so decided.
(39.4) I call upon Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, to introduce  the recommendation on item 49.  Item 49 - Unesco Staff Pension Committee: election of representatives of Member -___  States for 1984-1985
(40 ) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr President. The Commission unanimously recommended that the General  Conference adopt the draft resolution on item 49, which bears the number 24 and appears  on page 13 of the same document and is accompanied by the amendment contained in document
22 C/113 Addendum and Corrigendum,Part III, Section 1 .  Thank you Mr President.
(41.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you Mr Guellouz.  If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolution on item 4 9  as (41.2)  unanimously adopted.
(41.3) It is so decided.
(41.4) I call upon Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission to introduce  the recommendation on item 50: Medical Benefits Fund.  Item 50 - Medical Benefits Fund: Report by the Director-General on the State of  of the Fund
(42 ) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic):  Thank you Mr President. The Commission unanimously recommended that the Generai  Conference adopt the draft resolution on item 50, which bears the number 25 and appears  on page 13 of the same document. Thank you Mr President.
(43.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you Mr Guellouz.
(43.2) If there are no objections I shall consider the draft resolution on item 50  unanimously adopted.
(43.3) It is so decided.
(43.4) I invite Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, to introduce the  recommendation on item 53.1.  Item 53.1 - Headquarters premises: extended medium-term solution--sixth  building: report by the Director-General:
(44 ) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr President. In this regard, the Commission recommended Unanimously  that the General Conference adopt the draft resolution on item 53.1 which bears the  number 27 and appears on pages 13 and 14 of the same document. Thank you, Mr President.
(45.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr Guellouz .
(45.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolution on item 53.1  as unanimously adopted.
(45.3) It is so decided.
(45.4) I call upon Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, to introduce  the recommendation on item 53.1: Headquarters premises: extended medium-term solution -  improvement and expansion of conference facilities and expansion of office accommodation  at Headquarters.  Item 53.2 - Headquarters premises: extende medium-term solution--improvement  and expansion of conference facilities and expansion of office  accommodation at Headquarters: report by the Director-General
(46 ) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Arabic) :  ThanK you, Mr President. The Commission recommended unanimously that the General  Conference adopt the draft resolution on item 53.2 which bears the number 28 and appears  on pages 14 and 15 of the same document. Thank you, Mr President.
(47.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr Guellouz.
(47.2) If there are no objections on item 53.2, I shall consider the recommendation as  unanimously adopted.
(47.3) It is so decided.
(47.4) I invite Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, to introduce  the recommendation on item 54.  Item 54 - Headquarters premises: long-term solution: report by the  Director-General
(48 ) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr President. The Commission recommended unanimously that the General  Conference adopt the draft resolution on item 54, which bears the number 29 and appears  on page 16 of the same document. Thank you, Mr President.
(49.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr Guellouz.
(49.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolution on item 54  unanimously adopted.
(49.3) It is so decided.
(49.4) I cali upon Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission to introduce  the recommendation on item 55.  Item 55 - Terms of reference of the Headquarters Committee
(50 ) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr President. In fact two draft resolutions were presented under  item 55 and the Commission unanimously recommended that they be adopted by the General  Conference. The draft resolutions bear the numbers 30 and 31 and appear respectively on  pages 17 and 18 of the above-mentioned document. Thank you, Mr President.
(51.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr Guellouz.
(51.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolutions on item 55  as unanimously adopted.
(51.3) It is so decided.
(51.4) Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now consider the recommendations which are  contained in Part III, Section 2 of document 22 Ç/113 Annex-Recommendations.
(51.5) I call upon Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, to introduce  the recommendation on item 43: Staff Regulations.  Item 43 - Staff Regulations
(52 ) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic) : '  Thank you, Mr President. The Commission unanimously recommended that the General  Conference adopt the draft resolution on item 43, which, as you have pointed out, is  contained in the other document i.e., 22 C/113 Part III, Section 2, Annex-Recommendations -  more specifically in document 22 C/ADM/2 Annex-Recommendations, Part III, Section 2,  page 1 ,  and it bears the number 17. Thank you, C@ President.
(53.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr Guellouz.
(53.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolution  on item 43 as unanimously adopted.
(53.3) It is so decided.
(53.4) I invite Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, to introduce  the recommendation on item 44.  Item 44 - Administrative Tribunal: action to be taken for the extension of  its period of jurisdiction
(54 ) Mr GUELLOZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr President. On this question, the Commission unanimously recommended  that the General Conference adopt the draft resolution on item 44 which bears the number
18 and appears in the aforementioned document on page 1. Thank you, Mr President.
(55.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr Guelloùz.
155.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolution on item 44  as unanimously adopted.
(55.3) It is so decided.
(55.4) I cali upon Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission to introduce  the recommendation on item 45.1.  Item 45.1 - Salaries, allowances and other benefits of staff: staff in ~- the Professional category and above
(56 ) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr President. The Commission unanimously recommended that the General  Conference adopt the draft resolution on item 45.1 which bears the number 19 and appears  in the aforementioned document on pages 1 and 2. Thank you, Mr President.
(57.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr Guellouz.
(57.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolution on item 45.1  as unanimously adopted.
(57.3) It is so decided.
(57.4) I call upon Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, to introduce  the recommendation on item 45.2.  Item 45.2 - Salaries, allowances and other benefits of staff: staff in the  General Service category -
(58 ) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr President. Actually, the Commission had before it two draft  resolutions on this item. The Commission decided to amalgamate them into one draft
1245    resolution, which bears the number 20 and appears on page 2 of the same document.  The Commission recommended by consensus, that this draft resolution be adopted by the  General Conference. Thank you, Mr President.
(59.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr Guellouz.
(59.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolution on item 45.2  as unanimously adopted.
(59.3) It is so decided.
(59.4) I invite Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, to introduce  the recommendation on item 46.  Item 46 - International Civil Service Commission: report by the  Director-General
(60 ) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. The Commission unanimously recommended that the General  Conference adopt the draft resolution on item 46, which bears the number 22 and appears  on page 3 of the same document. Thank you, Mr President.
(61.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr Guellouz.
(61.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolution on item 46  as unanimously adopted.
(61.3) It is so decided.
(61.4) I invite Mr Guellouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, to introduce  the recommendation on item 47.1.  Item 47.1 - Personnel policy: recruitment and renewal of the staff: Long-term  overall plan for the recruitment and renewal of the staff and  geographical distribution of the staff
(62.1) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr President. In its consideration of this item, the Commission had  before it two documents, 22 C/56 and its Addendum. Neither of these documents contained  a proposed resolution, but two draftresolutions on this item were submitted by delegations.
(62.2) The first draft resolution, 22 C/ADM/DR.3, was the subject of considerable debate  followed by a paragraph-by-paragraph vote. A full account of the separate votes is given  in paragraph 28 of the narrative part of the report (22 C/113 Part III, Section 2).  The draft resolution, as ameneded, was then put to a vote and the Commission recommended  by a majority of 72 in favour and none against, with 2 absentions, that it be adopted by  the General Conference, This draft resolution is contained in paragraph 23 of document
22 C/113 Annex-Recommendations,Part III, Section 2, on page 3.
(62.3) The second draft resolution, 22 CIADMIDR.4, was also put to the vote and it  was recommended for adoption by the General Conference by 40 votes in favour to 17 against,  with 6 abstentions. It is contained in paragraph 23bis of document 22 C/113 Annex-Recom-  mendations, Part III, Section 2, on page 4. Thank you Mr President.
(63 ) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I call upon the deleuate of the Soviet Union to take the floor.
(64.1) Mr VINOGRADOV (Union of Soyiet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  gress accomplished during the discussion of document 22 C/56 and its Addendum, and the  examination of the accompanying recommendations, which are now submitted for our consider-  at ion.  Thank you, Nr President. I should like first of all to note the substantial pro-
(64.2) I should also like to draw your attention to the following. Under item 47.1, we  obviously have before us two draft resolutions. One of them, submitted by the Soviet  delegation, appears in paragraph 23 and the second in paragraph 23bis. It seems to me  preferable to consider the first draft resolution at once, especially bearing in mind  that, as you know and as the Chairman of the Administrative Commission explained, it  was adopted virtually by consensus: 72 votes in favour and none against, with two  abstentions.
(64.3) AS regards the draft resolution contained in paragraph 23bis of this adopted draft  is also wholly acceptable to our country and my delegation. At the same time, we should  like to submit an amendment for the attention of distinguished delegates. However,  this will naturally require time. We would therefore suggest setting aside considera-  tion of the draft resolution in paragraph 23bis until such time as the distinguished  President and members of delegations deem appropriate. Thank you for your attention.
(65.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  mitted in writing and we shall consider this matter at a forthcoming meeting of the  Conference in the light of the proposed amendment.
(65.2) I now give the floor to the delegate of Ghana.  I thank the delegate of the Soviet Union. I ask that this amendment be sub-
66.1 Mr CLELAND (Ghana) :  I should like to point out, however, that we had two different draft resolutions  before us when we were considering item 47.1. Procedurally, it was decided that  we had to deal with them consecutively and not concurrently. AS a result of  this, some contradictions have become apparent in some of the preambular  paragraphs of the draft resolutions contained in paragraphs 23 and 23 bis of  document 22 C/113--Annex-Recommendations, Part III, Section 2.  Mr president, I am very sorry that I have to take the floor at this stage.
66.2 To remove these contradictions, which would be invidious in two  resolutions which we hope the General Conference will adopt by consensus,  my delegation has some amendments to propose to harmonize the texts which  I am ready to present whenever you deem suitable, Mr President.
(67.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the delegate of Ghana.
(67.2) I give the floor to the delegate of Guinea.
68. M. XAMARA (Guinée) :  résolution, je me permets de rappeler qu'ils ont donné lieu à un très long débat  en Commission. Comme le délégué du Ghana vient de la dire, la Conférence pourrait  peut-être adopter de légers amendements au projet de résolution figurant au para-  graphe 23 du document 22 C/113 Annexe-Recommandations, Partie III, Fascicule 2,  afin de tenir compte de l'esprit du débat. Quant à l'autre projet de résolution  qui se trouve au paragraphe 23 bis, je ne pense pas qu'il soit souhaitable d'en  modifier le texte. Je voudrais donc que la Conférence puisse l'adopter dans sa  forme actuelle. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. S'agissant de ces deux projets de
(69.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic)  I thank the delegate of Guinea.
(69.2) Would all those who spoke please submit their proposals in writing. I also submit  for your approval the suggestion that consideration of this matter be postponed until  after we have received the written amendments in question.
(69.3) I call upon the delegate of India.
70. Mr KAUL (India) :  paragraph 23, may I suggest the insertion in subparagraph 4 after the phrase  'presenting more candidates', of the words 'especially women'. The Director-  General has been good enough to assure us several times that he is making the  best efforts he can to recruit more women, particularly in the higher categories,  but that unfortunately Member States have not been recommending an adequate number  of qualified women candidates. Thank you, Mr President.  Thank you, Mr President. Kith regard to the draft resolution contained in
(71.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the delegate of India and have taken note of his comments.
(71.2) I now give the floor to the Director-General.
72. LE DIRECTEUR GENERAL :  d& la parole à ce stade de vos débats pour informer la Conférence générale que,  comme je m'y étais engagé lors des échanges de vues qui avaient eu lieu dans le  cadre du Bureau, je présenterai au Conseil exécutif un rapport sur le problème de  l'utilisation de la langue portugaise comme langue de travail au sein de l'Organi-  sation. Vous vous rappelez que cette question a été très longuement évoquée par le  Bureau et que j'ai moi-même suggéré qu'elle ne fût pas inscrite à l'ordre du jour  de cette session de la Conférence générale, étant donne qu'elle faisait l'objet  de divergences au sein du Bureau et qu'en tout état de cause, je dois présenter  un rapport à ce sujet au Conseil exécutif, qui pourra l'examiner, puis le trans-  mettre éventuellement à la Conférence générale. Je voulais en informer la Confé-  rence générale et confirmer aux auteurs de ce projet de résolution que je ferai  ce que l'ai suggéré et qui n'a pas soulevé d'objection au sein du Bureau. I1 est  entendu que cela ne préjuge en rien de la décision qui sera prise par le Conseil  exécutif, puis, éventuellement, par la Conférence générale. Merci, Monsieur le  Président.  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, l'ai deman-
(73.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr Director-General.  On your behalf and my own, I wish to thank Wr Guellouz, Chairman of the Admini- (73.2)  strative Commission for his efforts and those öf his Commission and for the lucid way  in which he presented the Commission's report.
(73.3) I give the floor to Mr Guellouz.
(74.1) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic) :  Thank you, Mr President. It is not for me to comment on the kind words which  you expressed because the work done by this Commission, particularly within its Bureau,  was a collective effort. I would like to acknowledge your words of thanks with full  humility as regards myself and with a feeling of considerable pride in my colleagues  of the Bureau and the Commission.
(74.2) I would like to express my appreciation of the helpful and competent work done by  the various working groups which the Secretariat put at the disposal of the Commission.  I would also like to thank the distinguished representatives of the Director-General,  whose helpful clarifications made it possible for the Commission to reach clear and  well-informed decisions.
(74.3) It would seem that we have not concluded consideration of this report as we have  postponed the response of the plenary meeting concerning an entire item of the report, item
47. The proposals put forward, respectively by the distinguished delegates of the Soviet  Union and Ghana, require that we wait to see what amendments to the two draft reso-  lutions they may wish to submit, hoping that it will all be for the good. As Chairman  of the Commission, I would have been displeased if anything in the Commission's  resolutions that did not enjoy full agreement had been allowed to remain. I trust that  this postponement will give all colleagues who wish to put forward proposals enough  time to do so and that their proposals will be referred to the Director-General for his  valuable advice. I trust that we will be given a few moments at the next meeting to  submit new ideas that may enjoy wider and more general agreement. Thank you very much.
(75 ) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I thank Mr Guellouz for the comments he has just made.  REPORT OF COMMISSION II/RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION II/INFORME DE LA COMISION II/  \ 'GUI ë;-l >p nowma KOMMCCMH II/
44 II. g?$fi&&tB++
(76.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  Ladies and gentlemen, our task now is to take note of the report of Commission  II which is contained on document 22 C/122, Part I, and its Addendum and Corrigendum, and  to consider the recommendations of Commission II contained in document 22 C/122 Annex-  Recommendations, Part I, Section 2 and Addendum and Corrigendum, Annex-Recommendations.
(76.2) Allow me to invite the Acting Chairman of Commission II, Mr Rwodzi, to introduce  the report of the Commission and its recommendations.
77.1 Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe) , Acting Chairman of Commission II:  Thank you, Mr. President. It is an honour to present the report and  recommendations of Commission II which is the result of excellent teamwork on  the part of the delegations of Member States, members of the Secretariat and  the officers of the Commission, and in particular of the rapporteur whose dedication  to her task was unbounded. Through you, Mr President, I wish to commend to the  plenary all those involved for their valuable contributions, their hard work  and above all the friendly enthusiasm which permeated our meetings and which  created an excellent atmosphere of co-operation and understanding-.
77.2 Mr President, delegations have the report before them and have had time  to study it and it does not seem necessary for me to make a detailed presentation  of it, but I should like to make a few general remarks.
77.3 Following what I have just said about the friendly spirit of co-operation  (which I am sure will have left a lasting impression on all those who participated  in our work), I should like to inform you of the general consensus of opinion  endorsing the appropriateness and quality of the three major programmes we  examined. There was unanimous support for 'Education for all', 'The formulation  and application of educational policies' and 'Education, training and society',  and only a few proposals for relatively minor moditications in the activities.  I personally welcomed the stress that the Commission placed on primary education,  apart from its importance with regard to the democratization of education, as an  essential component in the fight against illiteracy. I also much appreciated  the strong emphasis given to technical and vocational education which in the  current world economic situation may open possibilities for increased productivity  in many Member States. I also hope that you will all take note of the various  references made in our report to the importance of the activities for the  education of women and girls. Finally, as far as my general remarks are concerned,  I wish to say how encouraging it was that, in spite of the financial constraints  which are always with all of us, many Member States made offers to be of assistance.  to others and to co-operate with the Secretariat in the execution of the programme.
77.4 Mr President, as you have already indicated, the material which Cornmission  II brings to plenary for its consideration today consists basically of a report on  our discussions and a series of recommendations. The General Conference takes note  of the narrative report of our work but considers each recommendation separately.
77.5 I therefore first invite the General Conference to take note of the  narrative part of the report of Programme Commission II, as contained in documents
22 C/122 and 22 C/  . '&&I '+I
(78.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I thank Mr Rwodzi, Acting Chairman of Commission II.
(78.2) Can I consider that the distinguished heads and members of delegations have taken  note of the report of Commission II?
(78.3) AS there are no comments, the General Conferences takes-note of the report  of Commission II.
(78.4) I now give the floor to the Acting Chairman of Commission II so that he can  introduce the first of the Commission's recommendations.
79.1 Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe), Acting Chairman of Commission II:  documents 22 C/122--Annex-Recommendations, Parts I and II and 22 C/122 Add.  and Corr.--Annex-Recommendations, Parts I and II and Add.2 and Corr.2, which  concerns the English, Arabic and Russian only.
79.2 The Commission unanimously recommends that the General Conference adopt  for Ma'jor Programme II, 'Education for all', the resolution proposed in  paragraph 1 of document 22 C/122--Annex-Recommendations, Parts I and II. You  will note in the Addendum and Corrigendum a minor modification to the French  vers ion.  Mr President, the Commission's recommendations are to be found in
(80.5)  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.  DO you wish to adopt resolution 3.1?  If there are no objections, I shall consider that this resolution is adopted.  It is so decided.  I give the floor now to the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
81. Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe) , Acting Chairman of Commission II:  Conference adopt the resolution proposed in paragraph 2 of document 22 C/122--  Annex-Recommendations concerning the Draft Statutes of the Intergovernmental  Regional Committee for the Major Project in the Field of Education in Latin America  and the Caribbean.  Mr President, the Commission II unanimously recommends that the General
(82.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
(82.2) Ladies and Gentlemen, do you wish to adopt this resolution?
(82.3) If there are no comments, I shall consider this resolution as adopted.
(82.4) It is so decided.
(82.5) I give the floor to the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
83. Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe), Acting Chairman of Commission II:  Conference adopt the resolution concerninq the regional programme for the  Mr President, Commission II unanimously recommends that the General
1252    eradication of illiteracy from Africa, which is set out in paragraph 3.of  document 22 C/122--Anne~-Recornmendations, Parts I and II.
(84.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
(84.2) If there are no objections to the statement of the Acting Chairman of Commission  II, I shall consider this resolution as unanimously adopted.
(84.3) It is so decided.
(84.4) I give the floor to the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
85. Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe), Acting Chai-rman of Commission II:  Conference adopt the resolution proposed in paragraph 4 of document 22 C/122--  Annex-Recommendations concerning the development and renewal of primary education.  You will note in the Addendum and Corrigendum a minor modification in the French  vers ion.  Mr President, the Commission unanimously recommends that the General
(86.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation flrom the Arabic) :  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
(86.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider the resolution before us as unanim-  ously adopted.
(86.3) It is so decided.
(86.4) I give the floor to the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
87. Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe), Actin? Chairman of Commission II:  adopt the resolution Concerning international assistance for Honduras in the  implementation of its National Literacy Plan contained in paragraph 5 of document
22 C/122--Annex-Recommendations, Parts I and II.  Mr President, Commission II recommends that the General Conference
(88.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
(88.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider this resolution as unanimously  adopted.
(88.3) It is so decided.
(88.4) I give the floor to the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
89. Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe), Acting Chairman of Commission II1  Recommendations, Parts I and 11,Commission II recommends that the General Conference  take note of the Work Plans, modified in accordance with the 'Note of the Director-  General' on relevant draft resolutions, for Programme 11.1 through 11.6.  Mr President, with regard to paragraph 6 of document 22 C/l2Z--Annex-
(90.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
(90.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider that you have  of the work plans for Programmes 11.1 through 11.6.
(90.3) It is so decided.
(90.4) I give the floor to the Acting Chairman of C O ~ i S s i o n  11.  agreed to take note
91.1 Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe), Acting Chairman of Commission II.:  Mr President, we come now to the budget provisions for Major Programme  II. As delegates may recall, the plenary, in accordance with established procedure,  is called upon on the one hand only to take note of the budgets recommended for  the individual programmes in document 22 C/5 and on the other hand to approve  the overall provisions for the Major Programmes. Let me add for your information  that the fi.nal recommendations concerning all programmes and Pajor Programmes  examined by the five Programme Commissions and the Administrative Commission  are determined by a joint meeting of those bodies. As that meeting has not yet  taken place, the plenary is at present called upon to take action of an interim  nature on the basis of the figures contained in document 22 C/5.
91.2 After the joint meeting of the Commissions, you will be invited to  take a final decision on the buduet of all Major Programmes. It is expected  that some changes will be made in the budgets of Major Programmes II and V in  accordance with the action taken by Commission II, as recorded in paragraph 86  of the report on Discussion Unit 8 in document 22 C/123.
91.3 Consequently, and on the understanding that the budget figures may  subsequently be modified for the reasons I have just explained, Commission II  unanimously recommends, as indicated in paragraph 7 of document 22 C/122--Annex-  Recommendations, Parts I and II that the General Conference take note of the  budgets for Programmes 11.1 through 11.6.
(92.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
(92.21 I would like to remind the Acting Chairman of Commission II that the Conference  has taken note and adopted the budgets for Programmes 11.1 through 11.6.
(92.3) I give the floor to the delegate of India.
93. Mr KAUL (India) :  the schemes formulated for wiping out illiteracy and for the universalization of  primary education in Latin America, the Caribbean and Africa, I should like  to make the brief comment that, although the education ministers of our region  have not presented any similar scheme, illiteracy rates and the question of the  universalization of primary education raise very serious problems in our region.  I hope that the Director-General will bear this. in mind in the future as far as  our budget will allow him to. Thank you, Mr President.  Thank you, Mr. President. While expressing our high appreciation of
(94.1) Th2 PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the delegate of India for his comments.
(94.2) I invite the Acting Chairman of Commission II to continue his report.
95.1 Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe), Acting Chairn of Commission II:  Parts I and II, you will see that the budget figure has been left blank; a  footnote explains that the figure will be inserted after the joint meeting  of the Programme and Administrative CoF:.missions. At the time of preparation of  this text it was foreseen that the joint meeting would have taken the necessary  action before the plenary met to consieer the recommendations of Commission II.
95.2 As this has not been the case, you will find in the Addendum and Corrigen-  dum to document 22 C/122--Annex-Recommendations, Parts I and II, a modification  to the paragraph in question. Taking that modification into account, Commission II  unanimously recommends that the General Conference approve for Major Programme II  an appropriation under the regular programme of a sum of $24,014,500 pending the  recommendations of the joint meeting of the Programme and Administrative Commissions  to the General Conference, it being understood that this budget figure is expressed  in 'constant dollars' and that it will subsequently be adjusted to account for infl-  ation during the triennium 1981-1983.  Mr President, in paragraph 8 of document 22 C/122--Anne~-Recomrnendations,
(96.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
(96.2) I would like to ask the distinguished heads of delegations if they approve the  budget as presented subject to the observations made by the Acting Chairman of Commission  II?
(96.3) If there are no observations, I shall consider the budget as adopted.
(96.4) It is so decided.
(96.5) I invite the Actinq Chairman of Commission II to continue his statement.
97. Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe), Acting Chairman of Commission II:  Mr President, Commission II unanimously recommends that the General  Conference adopt for Major Programme IV, 'The formulation and application of  education policies', the resolution contained in paragraph 9 of 2.2 C/122--Annex-  Recommendations, Parts I and II together with modifications to some of the  language versions, particularly the French version, as recorded in the Addendum  and Corrigendum to that document.
(98.1 ) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
(98.2) If there are no objections to the statements by the Acting Chairman of Commission  II, I shall consider resolution 4.1 as adopted.
(98.3) It is so decided.
(98.4) I call upon the Acting Chairman of Commission II to continue his report.
99. Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe), Acting Chairman of Commission II:  the General Conference adopt the resolution concerning the International  Bureau of Education contained in paragraph 10 of document 22 C/122 -  Annex-Recommendations, Parts I and II.  Thank you, Mr President. Commission II unanimously recommends that
00.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
00.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider the resolution as adopted.
00.3) It is so decided.
(100.4) I invite the Acting Chairman of Commission II to continue his report.
101. Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe), Acting Chairman of Commission II!  Mr President, Commission II recommends by a vote of 19 in favour, 1  against and 9 abstentions that the General Conference adopt the resolution  concerning the International Institute for Educational Planning contained in  paragraph 1 1  of document 22 C/122--Annex-Recommenda"ons, Parts I and II.
(102.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
(102.2) If there are no objections, I shall consider this resolution as adopted
(102.3) It is so decided.
(102.4) I invite the Acting Chairman of Commission II to continue his report.
103. Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe), Acting Chairman of Commission II:  Conference adopt the resolution concerning the Unesco Institute for Education pro-  posed in paragraph 12 of document 22 C/122--Anne~-Recommendations, Parts I and II.  Mr President, Commission II unanimously recommends that the General
(104.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Acting Chairman of Comission II.  ( 1 0 4 , ~ )  As there are no observations or objections, I shall consider this resolution as  unanimously adopted.
(104.3) It is CO decided.
(104.4) I invite the Acting Chairman of Commission II to continue his report.
105. Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe), Acting Chairman of Commission II:  Conference adopt the resolution concerning the third Report of the Joint  ILO/Unesco Committee of Experts on the Application of the Recommendation concern-  ing the Status of Teachers proposed in paragraph 13 of document 22 C/122--Annex-  Recommendations Parts I and II.  Mr President, Commission II unanimously recommends that the General
(106.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
(106.2) If there are no observations or objections from the floor, I shall consider  the resolution as unanimously adopted.
(106.3) It is so decided.
(106.4) I invite the Acting Chairman of Commission II to continue his report.
107. Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe), Acting Chairman of Commission II:  of document 22 C/122--Annex-Recommendations, Parts I and II that the General  Conference take note of the Work Plans modified in accordance with the 'Note  by the Director-General' on relevant draft resolutions, for Programmes IV.l  through IV.4.  Mr President, Commission II unanimously recommends in paragraph 14
(108.2)  with Mr
(108.4)  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.  If there are no observations or objections, I shall consideï that you agree  Rwodzi's remarks.  It is so decided.  I invite the Acting Chairman of Commission II to continue his report.
1U9. Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe) , Acting Chairman of Commission II:  the final budget figure to be inserted after the consultations held today  and inform them that Commission II unanimously recommends, as indicated in  paragraph 15, document 22 C/122--Annex-Recommendations, Parts I and II, that  the General Conference take note of the budgets for Programmes IV.l through  IV.4.  Mr President, may I remind delegations of my explanation concerning
(110.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
(110.2) If there are no observations or objections, I shall consider that note has been  taken.
(110.3) It is so decided.
(110.4) I invite the Acting Chairman of Commission II to continue his report
1 1 1 .  Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe), Acting Chairman of Commission II:  Recommendations,Parts I and II, Commission II unanimously recommends that the  Mr President, as shown in paragraph 16 of document 22 C/122--Annex-
1258    Gcnsral Conference take  International Bureau of  Planning and the Unesco
(112.4)  Mr  Mr  the absence  note of the recapitulations of the Work Plans for the  Education, the International Institute for Educational  Institute for Education.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.  If there are no observations, I shall consider this has been noted.  It is so decided.  I invite the Acting Chairman of Commission II to continue his report.  RWODZI (Zimbabwe), ACtinq Chairman of Commission II:  President, concerning the overall budget for Major Programme IV and  of the budget figure in paragraph 17 of document 22 C/122--Annex-  Recommendations, Parts I and II, may I call your attention to the  reference to that paragraph in the Addendum and Corriqendum.. In the li-ht of  that reference and as a consequence of the action taken by Commission II as  recorded in paragraph 87 of its report on Discussion Unit 6, the Commission recom-  mends by 49 votes to 1, with 19 abstentions, that the General Conference approve  for Major Programme IV an appropriation under the Regular Programme of a sum of  $27,186,100 pending the recommendations of the joint meeting of the Programme  and Administrative Commissions to the General Conference, it being understood  that this budget figure is expressed in 'constant' dollars and that it will  subsequently be adjusted to account for inflation during 1981-1983.
(114.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
(114.2) If there are no observations or objections, I shall consider that this has  your approval.
(114.3) It is so decided.
(114.4) I invite the Acting Chairman of Commission II to continue his report.
115. Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe), Acting Chairman of Commission II:  Recommendations, Parts I and II the resolution on Major Programme V, 'Education,  training and society' and in the Addendum and Corrigendum an amendment to  paragraph 8 of that resolution. Commission II unanimously recommends that the  General Conference adopt this resolution as aiizended.  Mr President, you will find in paragraph 18 of document 2.2 C/122--Annex-
(116.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
(116.2) If there are no observations or objections, I shall consider resolution 5.1  as amended, adopted.
(116.3) It is so decided.
(116.4) I invite the Acting Chairman of Commission II to continue his report
117. Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe) , Acting Chairman of Commission II:  Conference asopt the resolution concerning a possible convention on technical  and vocational education contained in paragraph 19 of document 22 C/122-Annex-  Recommendations, Parts I and II.  Mr President, Commission II unanimously recommends that the General
(118.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II
(118.2) If there are no observations or objections, I shall consider the resolution as  adopted.
(118.3) It is so decided.
(118.4) I invite the Acting Chairman of Commission II to continue his report.
119. Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe), Acting Chairman of Commission II:  Mr President, Commission II unanimously recommends that the General  Conference adopt the resolution concerning the United Nations University proposed  in paragraph 20 of document 22 C/122--Annex-Recommendations, Parts I and II.
(120.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
(120,2) If there are no observations or objections, I shall consider the resolution  as adopted.
(120.3) It is so decided.
(120.4) I invite the Actiiïg Chairman of Commission II to continue his report.
121. Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe), Acting Chairman of Commission II:  Mr President, Commission II unanimously recommenda that the General  Conference adopt the resolution concerning the social and educational problems  of delinquents proposed in paragraph 21 of document 22 C/122--Annex-Recommendations,  Parts I and II.
(122.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
(122.2) If there are no observations or Objections, I shall consider the resolution as  adopted.
(122.3) It is so decided.
(122.4) I invite the Acting Chairman to continue his report.
123. Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe), Acting Chairman of Commission II:  Conference adopt the resolution concerning international support for Suriname  in implementation of its National Literacy Plan which is proposed in paragraph  i2 of document 22 C/122--Annex-RecommendationI Parts I and II.  Mr President, Commission II unanimously recommends that the General
(124.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
(124.2) If there are no observations or objections, I shall consider the resolution  as adopted.
(124.3) It is so decided.
(124.4) I invite the Acting Chairman of Commission II to continue his report.
125. Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe), Acting Chairman of Commission II:  of document 22 C/122--Annex-Recommendations, Parts I and II that the  General Conference take note of the Work Plans, as modified in accordance with the  V.l through V.6.  Mr President, Commission II unanimously recommends in paragraph 23  'Note of the Director-General' on relevant draft resolutions, for Programmes
(126.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
(126.2) If there are no observations or objections, I shall consider that these  work plans have been noted.
(126.3) It is so decided.
(126.4) I invite the Acting Chairman of Commission II to continue his report.
127. Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe), Acting Chairman of Commission II:  nature of the action taken today on the budget, Commission II unanimously recommends  in paragraph 24 of document 22 C/122--Annex-Recommendations, Parts I and II that  the General Conference take note of the budgets for Programmes V.l through V.6.  Mr President, bearing in mind my explanation concerning the interim
(1 28 .I) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
(128.2) If there are no observations for objections, I shall consider  that these budgets have been noted.
(128.3) It is so decided.
(128.4) I invite the Acting Chairman of Commission II to continue his report.
129. Mr RWODZI (Zimbabwe), Acting Chairman of Commission II:  Mr President, concerning the overall budget for Major Programme V and  the absence of the budget figure in paragraph 25 of document 22 C/122--Annex-  Recommendations, Parts I and II, may I call your attention to the reference to  that paragraph in the Addendum & Corrigendum. In the light of that reference  and consequent to the action by Commission II as recorded in paragraph 89 of  its report on Discussion Unit 8, the Commission recommends by 47 votes in favour  to 1 against, with 17 abstentions, that the General Conference approve an  appropriation of a sum of $13,236,700 under the regular programme pending the  recommendations of the joint meeting of the Programme and Administrative  Commissions to the General Conference, it being understood that this budget  figure is expressed in 'constant' dollars and will be subsequently  adjusted to account for inflation during 1981-1983.
(1 30.1 ) The PRESIDENT (Transi-akion from the Arabic) :  I thank the Acting Chairman of Commission II.
(130.2) If there are no observations or objections, I shall consider the budget presented,  subject to the conditions stated, as adopted.
(133.3) It is so decided.
(130.4) Ladies and gentlemen, heads and members of delegations, we have now completed  taking note of the report of Commission II and adopting its recommendations. I should  like, personally and on your behalf to thank Mr Rwodzi, Acting Chairman of Commission II  and its Rapporteur, Mrs Deble, for the excellent work they have done.  SECOND REPORT OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE/DEUXIEME RAPPORT DU COMITE JURIDIQUE/  SEGUNDO INFORME DEL COMITE JURIDICO/BTOPOn AOWIAA DPB,lJMYECKOFO KOMBTETA/
(131.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Ladies and Gentlemen, distinguished delegates, you may remember that the General  Conference decided to refer agenda item 22 to the Legal Committee for examination. This  item concerns the study of the procedures currently used by Unesco to monitor the appli-  cation of the standard-setting instruments adopted within the framework of the Organization.  The Committee has examined this item and its findings are set forth in the second report  of the Committee - document 22 C/114.
(131.2) You will also recall that the General Conference has already considered the first  report of this Committee, which dealt with a 'Draft amendment to Article V of parayraph 1  of the Constitution (item proposed by Australia and New Zealand)'.
(131.3) I would now like to invite the Chairman of the Legal Committee, Mr. Santillán,  of Argentina, to present the second report to the Conference. Mr Santillán.
(132.1) Mr SANTILLAN (Argentina), Chairman of the Legal Committee (Translation from  the Spanish) :  Mr President, the second report of the Legal Committee (document 22 C/114)  concerns the procedures currently used by Unesco to monitor the application of the standard-  setting instruments adopted within the framework of the Organization. As stated therein,  the Director-General's study was prepared in pursuance of resolution 16.1 adopted by  the General Conference at its twenty-first session. It comprises three sections:  the first, on the various types of standard-setting instruments in Unesco, is descriptive;  the second is a brief analysis of the procedures in force in other Specialized Agencies  of the United Nations; and the third sets out eight considerations to be taken into  account in defining new procedures.
(132.2) The Director-General wondered whether it would be advisable to envisage setting  up a committee of experts, whose members would be independent of governments. The  Committee, which would be responsible for making an initial examination of the reports  submitted by States, would be required to deal, in principle, with reports relating to all  instruments. It would be provided with such resources as would allow it to enter into  and maintain discussions with States concerning the implementation of the instruments.  It would report to the Committee on Conventions and Recommendations of the Executive Board,  to the Executive Board itself and to the General Conference.
(132.3) This report by the Director-General submitted to the Executive Board at its 116th  session was examined by the Legal Committee and is now submitted to the General Conference.  Like the Executive Board in its decision 116 EX/5.0.1, the Legal Committee recommends that  the study undertaken be continued in greater depth, given that improvement of the current  procedures for examining the application of standard-setting instruments raises !>articul-  arly complex problems, as the Director-General's study has clearly revealed.
(132.4) At the end of the discussion, the Legal Committee decided to recommend that the  General Conference adopt the draft resolution contained in document 22 C/114, while  expressing the hope that the Director-General and the Executive Board would take account,  in the studies that they might be asked to undertake on the subject, of the considerations  and suggestions appearing in this report by the Legal Committee. Thank you, Mr President.
(133.1) The President (Translation fhom the Arabic) :  I thank the Chairman of the Legal Committee for his presentation.
(132.2) May I consider that the General Conference is ready to take note of the second  report of the Legal Committee?
(133.3) If there are no observations, I shall consider the report as noted.
(133.4) It is so decided.
(133.5) .The Conference must now decide on the draft resolution proposed by the Legal  Committee, as contained in paragraph 7 of document 22 C/114.
(133.6) May I consider that you approve the draft resolution?
(133.7) If there are no observations or objections, I shall consider the resolution as  adopted.
(133.8) It is so decided.  THIRD REPORT OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE/TROISIEME RAPPORT DU COMITE JURIDIQUE/  TERCER INFORME DEL COMITE JURIDICO/TPETMn AOKJIAJI DPBJIWIECKOrO KOMBTETA/
(1 34.1 ) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, we shall now proceed to another  part of item 22 which the Conference decided to refer to the Legal Committee for examina-  tion. This item concerns the document entitled 'Report on the study of procedures for  reporting on the application and implementation of the Revised Recommendation concerning  Technical and Vocational Education'. The Committee has examined the item and the results  of this examination are contained in the third report of the Committee in-document
(134.2) I would now like to invite the Chairman of the Legal Committee, Mr Santillán, to  present this report to the Conference.
(135.1) Mr SANTILLAN (Argentina), Chairman of the Legal Committee (Translation  from the Spanish) :  The third report of the Legal Committee, contained in document 22 C/115, deals  with the second study submitted to the General Conference concerning item 22 of its agenda.
(135.2) It concerns a particular instance of the more general question dealt with in  document 22 C/21, which was the subject of the Legal Committee's previous report. The  Director-General in document 22 C/115 suggested that the General Conference should invite  Member States to report on the application of the Revised Recommendation concerning  Technical and Vocational Education, which dates from 1974. To that end, the Director-  General proposes a procedure and time limits which are to be found in the draft resolution  that the Legal Committee submits to the General Conference in paragraph 4 of its report.
(135.3) The Representative of the Director-General said that the following purposes of  the implementation procedure by means of reports were as follows: a) to provide Member  States with information about other Member States, having regard to the application of the  instrument in question; b) to encourage States to apply the instrument; c) to check whether  the instrument was being applied correctly; d) to identify any obstacles to the implement-  ation of the instrument so as to determine whether any measures should be taken by Unesco  to assist Member States in overcoming such difficulties.
(135.4) I wish to point out, Mr President, a minor formal error, and I therefore take  the liberty of reading out the draft resolution paragraph by paragraph.  "The General Conference,  Having examined the study contained in document 22 C/104,  Finding the proposed procedures acceptable and desirable,  Invites the Director-Gqneral to prepare a questionnaire or form to be used by  Member States to report on their implementation of the Revised Recommendation  concerning Technical and Voca,tional Education,  Further invites the Director-General to send this questionnaire or form to  Member States in 1985, after having submitted it for approval to the Executive  Board's Committee on Conventions and Recommendations, and to request Member  States to reply thereto within ten months."
(135.5) An error has crept into this last paragraph that I would ask the President to have  rectified by this assembly. The Committee on Conventions and Recommendations is a subsi-  diary body of the Executive Board,which alone is empowered to submit the proposai for  the approval of the Committee. Consequently, the correction to the paragraph that I  Drouose involves deleting the reference to the Committee on Conventions and Recommenda-  tions so that the paragraph in question reads as follows: "Invites the Executive  oar-  to entrust to its Committee on conventions and Recommendations the task of examining and  improving the questionnaire to be sent to Member States and of examining the replies to  that questionnaire."
(135.6) To conclude, the final paragraph of the draft resolution reads: "Decides  that analytical summaries of the reports of Member States, along with the correspond-  ing report of the aforementioned Committee, shall be submitted to the twenty-fourth  session of the General Conference." Thank you Mr President.
(1 36.1 ) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I thank the Chairman of the Legal Committee.
(136.2) I invite the Director-General to take the floor.
137.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :  Je vous remercie,Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais d'abord présenter mes  excuses à la Conférence générale pour la formulation inadéquate de ce projet de  résolution, intégralement repris du texte qui avait été proposé dans le document
137.2 Monsieur le Président, j'ai demandé la parole pour formuler une observa-  tion allant dans le même sens que la modification que le Président du Comité juri-  dique vient de proposer concernant le deuxième paragraphe du disposi.tif de ce pro-  jet de résolution. En effet, le Comité sur les conventions et recommandations est  un organe subsidiaire du Conseil exécutif et le Directeur général ne peut pas  prendre en considération une proposition d'un organe subsidiaire du Conseil exé-  cutif sans qu'elle ait été au préalable approuvée par celui-ci. Aussi, Monsieur  le Président, suis-je parfaitement d'accord avec le Président du Comité juridique  sur le fait qu'il conviendrait d'insérer "après l'avoir soumis 2 l'approbation du  Conseil exécutif" au deuxième paragraphe du dispositif.
137.3 Mais pour la même raison, je voudrais dire au Président du Comité juridique  qu'il ne me semble pas souhaitable que la Conférence générale invite le Conseil  exécutif à saisir de la question son Comité sur les conventions et recommandations.  Je pense que le Conseil exécutif le fera, mais il serait, me semble-t-il, plus con-  forme aux textes réglementaires de lui laisser le soin de décider s'il renvoie OU  non l'examen d'une question 2 l'un de ses organes subsidiaires. C'est la raison  pour laquelle je suggère, si le Président du Comité juridique n'y voit pas d'incon-  vénient, de supprimer, au deuxième paragraphe du dispositif, l'invitation au Conseil  exécutif de consulter son Comité sur les conventions et recommandations. Je vous  remercie, Monsieur le Président.  ( 1  38.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I thank the Director-General.
(138.2) May I consider that the Conference has taken note of the third report  of the Legal Committee?
(138.3) If there are no observations, I shall consider the report as adopted.
(138.4) It is so decided.
(138.5) The Conference must now decide on the draft resolution proposed by the Legal  Committee, which is contained in paragraph 4 of document 22 C/115, as amended by the  Chairman of the Committee.
(138.6) May I consider that you approve the draft resolution?
(138.7) I give the floor to the representative of Egypt.
139. M. EL WAKIL (Egypte) :  vient de faire le Directeur général : le projet de résolution que nous sommes in-  vités à adopter doit en tenir compte, si le président du Comité juridique est  d'accord. Merci.  Monsieur le Président, il me semble qu'il y a aussi la proposition que
(140.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the delegate of Egypt.
(140.2) The Conference must now decide on the proposal submitted by the Chairman of the  Legal Committee, as clarified by the Director-General. Are there any observations or  objections concerning this matter?
(140.3) I give the floor to the Chairman of the Legal Committee.
(141 ) Mr SANTILLAN (Argentina), Chairman of the Legal Committee (Translation from  the Spanish:  I only wish to say that I am in total agreement with the Director-General's  remarks. In this way, the problem would be resolved. Thank you very much.
(142.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Chairman of the Legal Committee.
(142.2) May I now invite the Secretary of the Conference to read this proposal in  its final form.
143. Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Le deuxième paragraphe du dispositif, qui  est le quatrième paragraphe du projet de résolution, se lit alors comme suit :  "Invite en outre le Directeur général à adresser ce questionnaire ou formulaire  aux Etats membres en 1985, après l'avoir soumis à l'approbation du Conseil exécu-  tif, en leur demandant de le remplir et de le retourner dans un délai de dix mois."  Merci, Monsieur le Président.
(144.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Secretary of the Conference.
(144.2) Are there any observations? If none, I shall consider that you are in agreement  and that the proposal is adopted.
(144.3) It is so decided.  FOURTH REPORT OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE/QUASRIEME RAPPORT DU COMITE JURIDIQUE/  CUARTO INFORME DEL COMITE JURIDICO/9ETBEPTbltl ,QOKJiAa iûPi4~i49ECKOrO KOMMTETA/
(145.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, we shall now take up a matter  relating to agenda item 23 concerning the initial special reports submitted by Member  States on the action taken by them on three recommendations which were adopted by the  General Conference at its twenty-first session. These reports had to be submitted to  the Legai Committee in accordance with Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference. The Committee has studied these reports and the results of its study are  presented in the fourth report of the Committee in document 22 C/116.
(145.2) I would like to invite the Chairman of the Legal Committee, Mr Santillán, to  present this report to the General Conference.
(146.1) Mr SANTILLAN (Argentina), Chairman of the Legai Committee (Translation from  the Spanish) :  As you have said, Mr President, we are here concerned with the initial special  reports submitted by Member States on the action taken by them upon the Recommendations  adopted by the General Conference at its twenty-first session. In accordance with  Article IV, paragraph 4, of the Constitution, each of the Member States shall "submit  recommendations or conventions to its competent authorities within ia period of one year  from the close of the session of the General Conference at which they were adopted".
(146.2) In addition, Article 16 of the Rules of Procedure concerning Recommendations to  Member States and International Conventions covered by the terms of Article IV, paragraph 4,  of the Constitution stipulates that "Member States shall submit to the General  Conference special reports on the action they have taken to give effect to conventions  or recommendations adopted by the General Conference". The number of States having sent  the Secretariat initial special reports on the Recommendations aäopted at its.twenty-  first session is as follows: Recommendation concerning the Status of the Artist, 29  States; Recommendation for the Safeguarding and Preservation of Moving Images, 26 States;  Recommendation concerning the International Standardization of Statistics on the Public  Financing of Cultural Activities, 23 States.
(146.3) Extracts from these reports setting out the action taken to give effect to  these Recommendations in the Member States concerned can be found in documents 22 C/22 and  Add., 22 C/23 and Add., and 22 C/24. These figures show that, despite the emphasis laid  the vital role of this procedure in monitoring the application of the standards laid down  in the Conventions adopted by the General Conference, the majority of Member States have  not transmitted to the Organization the reports required by the Constitution and the Rules  of Procedure.
(146.4) Under Article 18 of the Rules of Procedure concerning Recommendations to Member  States and International Conventions covered by the terms of Article IV, paragraph 4, of  the Constitution, the General Conference must embody its comments on the action taken by  Member States in pursuance of a convention or recommendation in one or more general reports.  The Committee therefore submits to the General Conference a draft report containing consi-  derations of a general nature, most of which are based on the comments made by the General  Conference at previous sessions. The Committee agreed to recommend unanimously that  the General Conference adopt the draft resolution regarding the adoption of the general  report, which is to be found in paragraph 10 of document 22 C/116 before the meeting.  Thank you very much, Mr President.  ,by the General Conference at its twenty-first session on the reports procedure and on
(147.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I thank Mr. Santillán for his presentation.
(147.2) May I consider that the General Conference is ready to take note.of the fourth  report of the Legal Committee?
(147.3) As there are no observations or objections, I consider the report as adopted.
(147.4) It is so decided.
(147.5) The Conference must now decide on the draft resolution proposed by the Legal  Committee in which the General Conference is invited to adopt the general report  containing the Committee's observations on the initial reports. The text of this  resolution is contained in paragraph 10 of document 22 C/116, while the text of the gen-  eral report is contained in an annex to that document.
(147.6) May I consider that you approve the draft resolution? If there are no comments  or objections, I shall consider the resolution as adopted.
(147.7) It is so decided.
(14j.8) Lastly, I should like, personally and on your behalf, to thank the Chairman  of the Legal Committee, Mr. Santillán, for his presentation and all the members of  the Committee for this excellent report.
(147.9) I give the floor to Mr Santillán, Chairman of the Legal Committee.
(148) Mr SANTILLAN (Argentina), Chairman of the Legal Committee (Translation from  the Spanish) :  I should like, Mr President, to take this opportunity to offer my sincerest thanks  to the Legal Adviser, without whose valuable assistance, underskanding and clear-  sightedness we should have had great difficulty in achieving unanimity and consensus. I  am also grateful to Mr Keller and to the Secretariat, who placed themselves at the  disposal of the Legal Committee and thus made it possible to produce the report that we  have submitted. Many thanks, t.hen, to all those concerned. Thank you, Mr. President.
(149.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I thank Mr Santillán for the statement he has just made.
(149.2) I declare this meeting closed, and I thank you all for your co-operation.  The meeting rose at 12.35 p.m.  La séance est levée à 12 h.35  Se levanta la sesión a las 12.35
3aCeAaHHe 3aKpbiBaeTCÇi B 12.35