Thirty-f irst plenary meeting
24 November 1983 at 5 p.m.  President: Mr TELL (Jordan)  Trente et unième séance plénière
1321    FIFTH SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE/  CINQUIEME RAPPORT SUPPLEMENTAIRE DU PRESIDENT DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES  DE PODERES/IIRTbIn AOIIOJIHMTEJIbHbln AOKJIAJI IIPEJICEAATEJLR ICOMMTETA II0 IIPOBEPKE IIOJIHOMOWIn/  POUVOIRS/QUINTO INFORME COMPLEMENTARIO DEL PRESIDENTE DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACI~N  (i. i) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :
(1.2)  inviting the Chairman of the Credentials Committee to present his fifth report.
2. Mr BALASUBRAMANIAM (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Credentials Committee:  subsequent to the submission of my fourth report, credentials in due form have  been received from a number of Member States which had previously submitted pro-  visional credentials. They are: Argentina, Bolivia, Guatemala, Lesotho, Mauritius,  Namibia, Paraguay, Peru and Tonga. I recommend to the General Conference that these  credentials be formally accepted. Thank you, Mr President.  I declare the thirty-first plenary meeting open.  Ladfes and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, we shall begin this meeting by  Mr President, I have the'honour to inform the General Conference that
(3.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Chairman of the Credentials Committee.
(3.2) Ladies and gentlemen, do you approve this report? If there are no observations,  I shall consider these credentials as formally accepted.
(4. i) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  the British Virgin Islands as Associate Member to the Organization. The document on this  topic is 22 C/110 and the item, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, has been proposed by  the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
(4.2) I give the floor to the Director-General to introduce this item.  Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to Agenda Item 69 on the admission of
5.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENErlAL :  de l'Article II, paragraphe 3, de l'Acte constitutif, "les territoires ou groupes  de territoires qui n'assument pas eux-mêmes la responsabilité de la conduite de  leurs relations extérieures peuvent être admis comme membres associés par la Confé-  rence générale à la majorité des deux tiers des Membres présents et votants, si  cette admission a été demandée, pour le compte de chacun de ces territoires ou  groupes de territoires, par 1'Etat membre ou l'autorité, quelle qu'elle soit, qui  assume la responsabilité de la conduite de ses relations extérieures". Tel est,  Monsieur le Président, le cas des iles Vierges britanniques, dont le Royaume-Uni  de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord - qui assume la responsabilité de la  conduitede leurs relationsextérieures -ademandéparlettrel'admission &l'Unesco  en qualité de Membre associé. Dans sa lettre, le gouvernement du Royaume-Uni de  Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord précise qu'en vertu de la Constitution de 1976,  les ministres élus du gouvernement des iles Vierges britanniques ont reçu par délé-  gation la responsabilité des questions concernant notamment l'éducation, la science  et la culture. Le gouvernement du Royaume-Uni demande aussi que, si elles sont  admises comrnei4embre associé del'Organisation, les ilesvierges britanniquespuissent  participer aux activités de l'Unesco dans la région de l'Amérique latine et des  Caraïbes.
5.2 Monsieur le Président, il s'agit donc pour la Conférence générale de se  prononcer d'abord sur l'admission des iles Vierges britanniques comme Mernbre associé  de l'organisation et ensuite, si cette admission est décidée, sur la participation  de ce pays aux activités de l'Unesco dans la région de l'Amérique latine et des  Caraïbes. Je vous remercie.  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, aux termes
(6.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I thank the Director-General.  I give the floor to the delegate of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and (6.2)  Northern Ireland.
7.1 Mr DODD (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland):  to propose the admission of the British Virgin Islands to associate membership of  the Organization. The British Virgin Islands is a dependent territory of the  United Kingdom. Under the terms of the Virgin Islands (Constitution) Order 1976,  responsibility has been delegated to elected ministers of the Government of the  British Virgin Islands for the conduct, inter alia, of educational, scientific and  cultural matters.
7.2 Accordingly, the Government of the British Virgin Islands has expressed  the wish to participate in a more autonomous way in the work of this Organization.  Moreover, the Government of the United Kingdom deems it desirable that the British  Virgin Islands take part directly, and as a separate entity, in the activities of  Unesco in the Latin American and Caribbean region.
7.3 The General Conference of Unesco is consequently requested to admit the  British Virgin Islands as an Associate Member of the Organization.
7.4 Mr President, may I inform the General Conference that the British Virgin  Islands has long and deep cultural links with the other island states in the  Eastern Caribbean; it also sends its young people for higher education to other  states throughout the Caribbean. The British Virgin Islands is a small country,  where skilled manpower is scarce. Its Government has not, therefore, sent a  delegation to this General Conference as its application is still pending.
7.5 I am confident that if accepted into the Unesco family, the British Virgin  Islands will be an asset to the Organization. I therefore wish, on behalf of its  Government, formally to move that the British Virgin Islands be admitted to  associate membership of Unesco. Thank you, Sir.  Thank you, Mr President. It is with great pleasure that I take the floor
(8.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I thank the delegate of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
(8.2) The representative of Jamaica now has the floor.
9. Miss RICHMOND (Jamaica) :  Jamaica endorses the proposal by the United Kingdom for the admission of the  British Virgin Islands as an Associate Member of Unesco. The group of English and  Dutch-speaking Member States welcomes this strengthening of their membership of  Unesco. As the distinguished delegate of the Commonwealth of Dominica noted when  he expressed support for the admission of the Netherlands Antilles as an Associate  Member earlier on the proceedings of this session, the lofty ideals to which  Unesco is committed can only be given meaningful expression in the presence of  effective participation by all countries entitled to the benefits of membership.  We are convinced that the participation of the British Virgin Islands will enhance  the activities of the Organization. Thank you very much.  Thank you, Mr President. It is with a great sense of satisfaction that
(10.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the representative of Jamaica.
(10.2) I give the floor to the representative of Panama.
(11) Mrs PRADO (Panama) (Translation from the Spanish) :  Mr President, the Republic of Panama welcomes the proposal of the United Kingdom  to admit the British Virgin Islands as an Associate Member of the community of Member States  of this organization for education, science, culture and communication. It is not simply  its 200 nautical miles of coast on the Caribbean sea that gives my country its Caribbean  dimension: it is, perhaps, above all the whole cultural heritage which we have in common  that accounts for the deep feeling and joy with which Panama greets this fellow country  from the region, a country which will make an important contribution to the work to which  we attach so much importance, in the Latin America and Caribbean group. I request, Mr  President, that the proposal be approved by acclamation. Many thanks.
(12.1) The PRESIDENT ‘(Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the representative of Panama.
(12.2) Your applause indicates that you accept the proposal; I therefore declare that it  is approved.
(12.3) Now can I also consider that you are agreed that the British Virgin Islands, as  an Associate Member of the Organization, may participate in the activities of the Latin  America and Caribbean Region? If there are no observations, I shall consider that you  are so agreed.
(12.4) It is so decided.  REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION (continued)/RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION  ADMINISTRATIVE (suite)/INFORME DE LA COMISION ADMINISTRATIVA (continuación)/  AOKJiAJI KOMMCCML? IiO AJI,MMHL?CTPATMBHblM BOIiPOCAM (rrpoaonmeHae)/  (@L) '&JIJrI 'L+.LJl >+ / fi$E% E.4?&*& $it 1
(13.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the next item on our agenda for this evening,  the report of the Administrative Commission. You may remember, ladies and gentlemen, that  when we postponed action on the report and recommendations of the Administrative Commission  three days ago we took note of the narrative part of the Committee's report and we unani-  mously adopted all the draft resolutions contained in it, with the exception of two draft  rcsolutions on Item 47.1 of the Agenda of the General Conference entitled "Recruitment and  rcncwal of the staff: Long-term overall plan for the recruitment and renewal of the staff  and gcographical distribution of the staff I'.
(13.3) The reason that we deferred this part of our work on Item 47.1 was that amendments  to the draft resolutions were proposed from the floor and I deemed it advisable, before  proceeding further, to have these amendments to the draft resolutionsavailable in written  forni and in the six languages. Meanwhile,.the amendment submitted by the Soviet Union  lias been withdrawn. Thus we have only the written amendment proposed by Ghana and Guinea  which has now been circulated in the appropriate languages and is ready for your  Consideration.
(13.3) Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore suggest that we proceed in the following  manner. We could first consider the draft resolution contained in paragraph 23 of  document 22 C/113, Annex-Recommendations, Part III, Section 2. You will recall that an  amendment to this draft resolution was proposed by the delegate of India to the effect  that the phrase "especially women" be inserted after the word "candidates" in the penulti-  mate line of paragraph 4 of the draft resolution.
(13.4) I invite the Secretary to read the revised text.
14. The SECRETARY:  as amended by India reads as follows: 'Requests Member States to assist the  Director-General in improving equitable geographical distribution within the  established quotas by presenting more candidates, especially women, with qualifi-  cations which correspond to the requirements of vacant posts'.  Thank you, Mr President. The text of paragraph 4 of the draft resolution
(15. i) The PRESIDENT (Trailslation from the Arabic) :  I thank the Secretary of the Conference.
(15.2) I find that there are no observations or objections to this amendment proposed by  India.
(15.3) It is therefore adopted.
(15.4) Ladies and gentlemen, the second amendment to this draft resolution has been pro-  posed by Ghana and Guinea. It has been submitted under reference number 22 C/PLEN/DR.33.  I would propose that we first deal with this amendment by Ghana and Guinea and then take  up the draft resolution itself. After this, we could proceed to examine the draft  resolution contained in paragraph 23 bis of document 22 C/113, Annex-Recommendations, Part  III, Section 2.
(15.5) Since I see no objection to my proposals, we shall now proceed to consider the  resolution contained in paragraph 23 of document 22 C/113, Annex-Recommendations, Part III,  Section 2, as amended by India.
(15.6) I would like to invite the delegate of Ghana to introduce his amendment as contained ’  in document 22 C/PLEN/DR.33. You have the floor, Sir.
16.1 Mr CLELAND (Ghana) :  Guinea and Ghana to present draft resolution 22 C/PLEN/DR.33 which proposes amend-  ments to the draft resolution on item 47.1 which is contained in document 22 C/113  Annex-Recommendations, Part III, Section 2, paragraph 23. The amendment was  based on the need to refine the text and to harmonize it with that contained in  paragraph 23 bis. The text has now been amended to reflect more truly the spirit  of the debate that took place. We have thus proposed the insertion in paragraph 1,  after the words ‘Takes note’, of the words ‘with appreciation‘ and, as the  majority of speakers who discussed the question of personnel matters believed that  the changes that have occurred in the recruitment of personnel since the twenty-  first session of the General Conference have been positive, we have proposed the  insertion of the word ‘positive’ before the word ‘changes’.
16.2 As regards paragraph 3, we propose that the words ‘Expressing concern over  the fact that a great number of’ be deleted and replaced by the words ‘Further ~  notes that some’. We understand that it is not correct to state that a great  number of states are under-represented or unrepresented in the Organization; only  a few Member States fall into those categories. The text of the original resolu-  tion might give the erroneous impression that the Director-General had not done  enough to improve the representation of those Member States which are still not  represented in the Secretariat or which are under-represented. We know, on the  contrary, that the Director-General has done a great deal to improve the situation.  It was also stated by the representative of the Director-General during the debate  on this item that representation is a difficult and complex issue, a matter that  is frequently complicated further by the fact that some Member States are not yet  in a position, given domestic constraints, to release their best qualified staff  for international service. There are also constraints such as the policy of double  Thank you, Mr President. I have pleasure on behalf of the delegations of
1326    taxation imposed by some Member States and insufficient employment opportunities  in Paris and elsewhere for the spouses of those being considered for international  service.  being made by the Director-General to improve the representation of all states  including those which are now not represented or are under-represented. If this  new formulation is accepted, the original paragraph 5 will be renumbered paragraph6.  The new proposed paragraph 5 recognizes the commendable continuing efforts
16.3 Most of us have, of course, held serious consultations on these amendments  with the Soviet delegation, the author of the draft resolution in question, and I  am happy to announce that we have been able to secure a broad consensus. On  behalf of the co-sponsors, therefore, I wish to take this opportunity to thank the  Soviet delegation for their spirit of understanding and co-operation. In view of  this broad understanding, Mr President, may I suggest that we accept the amend-  ments on the basis of consensus, without further debate if possible? Thank you,  Sir.
(17.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the delegate of Ghana for his presentation.
(17.2) As you know, the Director-General has commented on this amendment and finds no  difficulty with the proposals.
(17.3) I give the floor to the deleqate of the Soviet Union.
(18) Mr VINOGRADOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. The Soviet delegation is indeed in agreement with the  amendments that have just been spoken about. At the same time we would like to emphasize  the fact that our resolution was prepared and submitted solely on the basis of document
22 C/56 which was thoroughly discussed by the Executive Board and which Member States had  ample timc to study. Thank you.
(19.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the delegate of the Soviet Union.
(19.2) If there are no observations or objections, I shall consider this amendment adopted.
(19.3) It is so decided.
(19.4) We shall now take up the draft resolution as a whole, as contained in paragraph
23 of document 22 C/113, Annex-Recommendations, Part III, Section 2, and as amended,  first by the delegation of India and then by the delegations of Ghana and Guinea.
(19.5) If there are no observations or objections to the Generai Conference adopting this  draft resolution, I shall consider it adopted.
(19.6) It is so decided.
(19.7) Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now take up the draft resolution contained in  paragraph 23 bis of document 22 C/113, Annex-Recommendations, Part III, Section 2.
(19.8) I invite Mr Gueiiouz, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, to introduce the  recommendation of his Commission on this draft resolution.
(20.1) Mr GUELLOUZ (Tunisia), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation  from the Arabic) :  Thank you Mr President. Before I accept your invitation to introduce the recom-  mendation of the Commission on this draft resolution, I should like to say a few words of  appreciation, with my apologies for their personal nature.
(20.2) As I said before, Mr President, I have full confidence in the Commission at whose  head you were kind enough to place me. The frankness with which we conducted our delibera-  tions was a source of reassurance and sense to which we could resort whenever difficulties  and conflicts came up. The decision which you made on Recommendation 23 and the mutual  understanding exhibited by the delegations concerned now fills me with pride. I consider  the results to be a reflection of the spirit of mutual understanding which characterized  the work of the Administrative Commission. The seeds of mutual understanding which we  deliberately sowed are now being harvested in work expedited and time saved: and, in all  humility, that spirit may help account for the climate of goodwill that has prevailed at  the Conference as a whole.
(20.3) Mr President, the Administrative Commission recommended by 40 votes to 17 with 6  abstentions that the General Conference adopt the draft resolution contained in paragraph
23 bis of document 22 C/113, Annex-Recommendations, Part III, Section 2. After the vote,  some delegates explained their vote and these explanations are recorded in paragraphs 32  to 34ofthe Commission's report in document 22 C/113, Part III, Section 2. Thank you Mr  President.
(22.1) Mr VINOGRADOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, the Soviet delegation would like to  express its gratitude to you for the opportunity to give further study to resolutions 23  and 23 bis which were submitted to the plenary meeting for examination. This is especially  important in view of our feeling that adoption of the proposals they contain requires  thorough and careful study taking into account all the consequences that the implementa-  tion of those resolutions might lead to in the future.
(22.2) I should like especially to single out that aspect in the light of the fact that  the Director-General's report on that matter (I have in mind document 22 C/56 Add.) is  preliminary, I repeat, preliminary. That document--and I should like to draw particular  attention to this fact--was not published until 3 November and my delegation received it  just one day before the discussion in the Administrative Commission.
(22.3) The time you allowed, Mr President, was used for additional consultations among  the authors of the above-mentioned resolutions, consultations which made possible the  further clarification of the positions of the countries concerned and the Unesco  Secretariat. In that connection we should like to mention the useful role played by Mr  Guellouz in the search for an acceptable consensus in these talks.
(22.4) As a result of these consultations, the Soviet delegation agreed to the amendments  concerning the recommendation submitted by our country, qs I have already said. As for  the amendment proposed by the Soviet Union to draft recommendation 23 bis, we endeavoured,  without making any change in paragraph 6 of that amendment, to maintain the situation that  exists at the present time with minimum quotas for a number of States making the largest  contribution to Unesco's budget. Realizing that the admission of new members to the  Organization leads to the natural lowering of the average quotas, we did not raise any  questions concerning that issue. However, the Soviet delegation did feel it necessary, as  a matter of principle, to express its views about the lowering of our minimum quota.
(22.5) As we have repeatedly said in our statements and, in particular, in the statements  by the head of our delegation at this session of the General Conference, from the time the  Soviet Union joined Unesco it has been and continues to be under-represented, i.e. it has  never attained its minimum quota. The purpose of the present amendment was therefore to  draw the attention of Conference participants to the need for taking fully into account  what in our view is this abnormal situation 'in the implementation of the proposed recom-  mendation. We are compelled to say that in our talks we were unable to work out a  mutually acceptable formula on this question.
(22.6) Since, in the implementation of the present recommendation, a great deal will  depend on account being taken of the interests of all the Organization's Member States,  particularly those that are at present under-representedl the Soviet delegation does not  insist on the official submission of its amendment and a vote being taken on it. At the  same time we hope that the views we have expressed on the content of the recommendation  in question will be taken into account by the Director-General in implementing the plan  for the recruitment and renewal of senior staff of the Unesco Secretariat. I shall be  grateful to you, Mr President, if this position of principle of my country finds reflec-  tion in the minutes of the present meeting. Thank you.
(23.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the delegate of the Soviet Union and his statement has been noted.
(23.2) I give the floor to the delegate of Czechoslovakia.
24. Mr SMïD (Czechoslovakia) :  are under-represented in the Secretariat, and I would like whole-heartedly to  support the main ideas which are expressed in the statement by the representative  of the USSR. My delegation is faced with a difficult problem in that the document  was presented rather late; I believe that such a complex issue requires a thorough  study and that we should avoid any hasty decision. At the same time, I have a  feeling that a decision of this character and the magnitude of the question  perhaps call for co-ordination or consultation within the United I;ations system.  Therefore I would like to have my statement duly recorded in the minutes of our  plenary meeting. Thank you, Sir.  Thank you, Mr President. My delegation also belongs to those states which
(25.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the delegate of Czechoslovakia and his statement has been noted. '
(25.2) I give the floor to the delegate of the United States of America.
26.1 Ms MOODY (United States of America) :  Mr President, the proposed resolution in paragraph 23 bis was voted upon  hastily without debate by the Administrative Commission. It was based on a pre-  liminary report on staff quotas (document 22 C/56 Add.) which was distributed only  very shortly before the Commission was to consider it. For 'these reasons, I fear  that there has been very little true consideration of the effectofthis resolu-  tion, and a study on personnel questions would be welcomed by our delegation.
26.2 Mr President, the proposed resolution in paragraph 23 bis raises the  present mid-point of 4 (minimum 3 and maximum 5) to 5 (minimum 2 and maximum 8)  as a quota. The folly of this new formula is that it will not decrease the  number of unrepresented and under-represented Member States. Let me explain.
26.3 Table V in the Annex to document 22 C/56 notes that 810 positions subject  to geographical distribution were filled as of 1 July 1983. Comparing this to the  numerical basis of 950 posts, there is a vacancy rate of approximately 15 per  cent. By projecting this lapse rate of 15 per cent against the new numerical  basis of 1,100 posts in the proposed resolution in paragraph 23 bis, we actually  realize approximately 935 filled posts. From a realistic point of view, we would  still be dealing with a figure of about950 posts despitethe 1,100 basis mentioned  in this resolution.
26.4 To change the formula as we are called to do in the proposed resolution  will, therefore, actually lead to an increase in the number of unrepresented and  under-represented Member States.
26.5 Table IV in the Annex to document 22 C/56 lists 6 Member States as over-  represented by five or more. By plain addition, this equals 57 posts. The first  step in achieving equitable geographical distribution should be to fill these  posts when vacated with candidates from unrepresented or under-represented Member  States, not to make the present quota even more unfair, as we fear that the pro-  posal before us does. It is ironic that this resolution, if adopted, will make  under-representation even more inequitable. We request that our statement be  included in the record. Thank you, Mr President.
(27.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  noted.
(27.2) I give the floor to the delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany.  I thank the delegate of the United States of herica and her statement has been
28.1 Mr VESTRING (Federal Xepublic of Germany):  thirty-four countries are under-represented and thirty are not represented at all.  This makes a total of sixty-four, and I would say that the statement in the 'Note  by the Director-General' to draft resolution 22 C/PLEN/DR.33 moved by Ghana to  the effect that, and I quote, 'only some Member States are presently under-  represented or not represented in the Secretariat at all' seems to me a little  inadequate to describe the position of sixty-four unrepresented or under-  represented countries. I would, therefore, have preferred to express concern  over this fact, as had been proposed by the Administrative Commission in its draft  resolution. I understand that delegations of over-represented countries might  prefer to delete the reference to concern. But I must say that my delegation is  more in favour of continuing efforts to fill the Secretariat with personnel from  those member countries which are under-represented or not represented at all.
28.2 I am extremely unhappy with the text before us in paragraph 23 bis of  document 22 C/113--Annex-Recommendations, Part III, Section 2, and particularly  with paragraph 6 whichmodifies the lowest quotas from 3-5 to 2-8, altering other  quotas in consequence. We have already expressed our concern with regard to  attempts to change the existing system at the 117th session of the Executive  Board. We see no need to change it now. We would have preferred the Secretariat  to continue first to make serious efforts to comply with existing regulations.  The new proposed system is clearly in favour of those small contributors which  were over-represented under existing regulations and many of which will now be in  line under the new regulations. At the same time, however, the new regulations  put at a disadvantage all other small contributors who are not represented or are  under-represented. Ail those Member States which under the existing system had  reason to complain as long as they had not filled their minimum quota of 3 would  in future have reason to complain only if they had not yet reached a minimum quota  of 2. And, on the other hand, the larger contributors are put at a disadvantage  because their mid-points are reduced. I must also add that my delegation very  much regrets the undue haste with which this resolution was put forward. Geo-  graphical distribution of staff is a question which would have merited more  thorough consideration, not only here in Unesco but also in our capital cities.  We do not consider it appropriate for such an important decision to be taken by  consensus. Thank you, Mr President.  Mr President, may I draw your attention to the fact that at this moment,
(29.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  noted.
(29.2) I give the floor to the delegate of Japan.  I thank the delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany and his statement has been
30. Mr OMURA (Japan) :  the United States and the Soviet Union when this draft resolution was put to the  vote in the Administrative Commission. My country is one of the most under-  represented and we have never reached the minimum quota of Secretariat staff, We  consequently attach much significance to the programmes in question, whose impor-  tance is such they should be discussed somewhat cautiously, and we think that such  programmes should have been examined in the Executive Board before being put to  the vote in that Commission. So when this draft resolution was put to the vote  my delegation voted against, which means we are not satisfied with it. I therefore  wish my remarks to be recorded. Thank you, Sir.  Thank you, Mr President. My delegation had the same difficulty as those.of  : &>i T\J\  .aLLJI "9L Cq-Il @i  . JUI b9h -..A &I +r yl3Y
(31.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the delegate of Japan.
(31.2) I give the floor to the delegate of Senegal.
32.1 M. THIAM (Sénégal) :  Monsieur le Président, je vous remercie de me donner la parole. Monsieur  le Président, je suis un peu étonné d'entendre de respectables délégués auxquels  je voue la plus sincère admiration pour leur compétence et leur sérieux mais sur-  tout pour leur intégrité morale, affirmer que la question qui nous occupe ici n'a  pas fait l'objet d'un débat au niveau de la Commission administrative. I1 n'était  pas nécessaire, pour que cette question soit traitée, qu'elle ait au préalable été  soumise au Conseil exécutif. I1 suffisait, conformément aux dispositions statu-  taires, qu'un projet de résolution ait été présenté dans les délais requis et exa-  miné par les instances appropriées. De ce point de vue, je pense que personne n'est  en droit de contester la procédure qui a été suivie par les Etats membres.
32.2 I1 y a là une question essentielle puisqu'elle met en jeu la démocratisa-  tion des institutions internationales. A quoi assistons-nous ? Nous assistons à  une situationqui faitque tousles pays arrivé stardivement sur la scène internationale  ont du mal à jouer un rôle important dans ces institutions en raison de leur faible  représentation au sein des secrétariats. Or, de très nombreux pays ont maintes fois  mis l'accent sur le fait que l'Unesco était une école de formation, qu'elle per-  mettait à des cadres extérieurs d'enrichir leurs compétences et leur expérience  et qu'en tant que telle, elle offrait sur le plan qualitatif des perspectives de  promotion dont les pays en développement pouvaient tirer profit pour accomplir  d'énormes progrès.
32.3 Compte tenu de ces considérations, les pays en développement, soucieux de  jouer au sein de l'Organisation un rôle accru, ont élaboré un projet de résolution  qu'ils ont soumis dans les délais requis à l'appréciation de la Conférence générale.  Ce projet de résolution, il faut le dire une fois encore, ne vise nullement à ré-  duire les quotas des Etats membres auxquels sont demandées les contributions les  plus importantes. Nous n'avons jamais eu l'intention de réduire les quotas de qui  que ce soit. Notre intention est d'essayer de faire en sorte que le nombre des pays  qui sont sous-représentés diminue et que la représentation des autres pays soit  élargie, de façon qu'il soit possible de faire appel àtoutesiescompétences, étant  entendu que le savoir, 'expérience et la compétence ne sont l'apanaqed'aucune race,  d'aucun pays, d'aucune civilisation, d'aucun hémisphère. C'est la raison pour la-  quelle nous n'avons pas hésité à rappeler la disposition pertinente de l'Acte cons-  titutif mettant l'accent sur l'importance qu'il y a, en matière de recrutement du  personnel, à se conformer scrupuleusement à des critères tels que l'expérience, la  compétence, le sérieux et l'adhésion aux idéaux de l'Acte constitutif.
32.4 I1 restait à proposer une fourchette. Le Secrétariat, qui avait été invité  à se pencher sur cette question, nous a fourni des hypothèses de travail que nous  avons examinées en toute indépendance ; nous avons fini par retenir l'une d'elles  qui présente à nos yeux l'avantage considérable de ne défavoriser personne et de  trouver un juste milieu entre la situation dans les autres institutions du système  des Nations Unies telles que l'ONU, OU la fourchette va de 2 à 14, et la situation  à l'Unesco où elle a jusqu'ici été fixée à 3-5. Nous avons donc proposé une four-  chette de 2 à 8 et nous nous sommes limités à cela : tel est le sensduparagraphe 6  du projet de résolution.
32.5 Nous avons alors été contactés par certains délégués de pays amis qui nous  ont fait part de leur préoccupation en ce qui concerne ce paragraphe. Nous leur  avons indiqué que nous étions disposés à accepter de donner à ce paragraphe le  libellé suivant : "Décide de faire passer de 3-5 à 2-8 les quotas les plus bas",  en supprimant le reste de la phrase, ce qui aurait peut-être permis de dissiper  les appréhensions de certaines délégations.
32.6 Cela dit, je tiens à souligner une fois de plus que notre proposition pro-  cède du seul souci de démocratiser les institutions internationales en offrant aux  Etats en développement la possibilité d'obtenir une représentation conforme à leurs  aspirations et aux espoirs qu'elles placent dans l'organisation. Elle n'a pas  d'autre but et ne vise à léser personne. Aussi insistons-nous pour que la Confé-  rence générale accepte ce texte, en lui apportant éventuellement la modification  que ]'ai proposée. Je vous remercie beaucoup, Monsieur le Président.
(33.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I thank the delegate of Senegal.
(33.2) I give the floor to the delegate of Cameroon.
34. M. LOUNG (Cameroun) :  faire partie de la Commission administrative, dont j'étais même l'un des vice-  présidents. Je suis donc un peu étonné que dans cette salle, certaines délégations  disent que le projet de résolution a été déposé très tard et examiné à la hâte. I1  me semble au contraire que, d'une part - cela avait d'ailleurs été admis-ce projet  a été déposé dans les délais réglementaires et que, d'autre part, nous y avons con-  sacré tout le temps nécessaire. Evidemment, comme cela s'est produit pour d'autres  points délicats dont était saisie La Commission administrative, il y a eu des dis-  cussions assez longues, des points de vue assez divergents se sont exprimés : il  est certain que chaque groupe a essayé de défendre sa position - tout au moins les  groupes actuellement favorisés ont essayé de défendre la leur. Ce que certains des  membres de la Commission ont proposé, compte tenu, d'ailleurs, de la situation dans  les autres organismes du système des Nations Unies, vient d'être très clairement  et très précisément exposé par M. Thiam. Je voudrais souligner, Monsieur le Prési-  dent, que la majorité des membres de la Commission administrative s'est prononcée  très clairement en faveur du projet de résolution qui est actuellement soumis à la  Conférence générale et qu'elle l'a fait en pleine connaissance de cause. I1 est  donc étonnant que certains prétendent qu'ils seront défavorisés. Ceux qui ont pro-  posé la fourchette qui figure au paragraphe 6 du deuxième projet de résolution re-  latif au point 47.1 et ceux des membres de la commission - et ils ont été majori-  taires - qui ont approuvé cette proposition avaient de bonnes raisons de le faire.  Je soutiens donc fermement ce que M. Thiam a dit et j'espère que la Conférence  générale se prononcera dans sa majorité en faveur du projet de résolution. Je VOUS  remercie, Monsieur le Président.  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, j'ai eu l'honneur de
(35.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic);  I thank the delegate of Cameroon.
(35.2) I give the floor to the delegate of India.
36.1 Mr KAUL (India) :  Thank you, Mr President. I think we should be grateful to the Administra-  tive Commission for producing a draft resolution which, though it may not be fully  satisfactory to all, seems to cover the most common ground, especially as regards  the considerations in favour of the unrepresented and the under-represented  countries.
36.2 I should like to invite special attention to paragraph 1 of this draft  resolution and, in particular, paragraph 7. We must have full faith and confidence  in the fairness, impartiality, integrity and efficiency of the Director-General  and his staff, who have been given enough flexibility to implement this resolution,  since paragraph 7 reads: 'Requeststhe Director-General to take such steps as may  be required to implement this decision, progressively, if necessary'. This resolu-  tion is a kind of guide and quotas are a kind of yardstick which the Director-  General I am sure will take into consideration bearing in mind Article IV,  paragraph 4,of the Unesco Constitution which is referred to in paragraph 1 of  this resolution. I would therefore suggest that we support this resolution whole-  heartedly and leave it to the wisdom of the Director-General to implement it as  much as hecanprogressively and as much as is necessary in order to redress the  imbalance that at present exists between various Member States, many of whom are  under-represented and some of whom are unrepresented. Thank you, Mr President.  : &>I TV,\  .dl "JJ-;" Q I  $i
(37.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I thank the delegate of India.
(37.2) And now, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, after having heard the  statements of a number of colleagues and in the absence of other observations, can we  decide on the adoption of this recommendakion? If there are no objections, I shall con-  sider this recommendation adopted.
(37.3) It is so decided.
(37.4) NOW ladies and gentlemen, permit me to give the floor to the Director-General.
38.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, je n'ai  pas voulu prendre la parole au cours du débat sur le projet de résolution figurant  au paragraphe 23 bis, mais il me semble qu'il y a eu confusion entre deux ques-  tions : celle des quotas attribués aux Etats membres et celle du recrutement, à  propos de laquelle il s'agit d'assurer aux Etats membres non représentés ou insuf-  fisamment représentés une représentation normale au sein du Secrétariat. Ce sont  là deux questions absolument distinctes, et je voulais le préciser à ceux qui sont  intervenus à ce sujet.
38.2 Le 10 octobre dernier, le Conseil exécutif, après avoir examiné un rapport  qui était destiné à la Conférence générale, m'a invité à ajouter à ce rapport uns  étude préliminaire sur la question des quotas. Cette étude devait inclure des ren-  seignements concernant la pratique suivie dans les autres institutions du système  des Nations Unies. Dans un délai extrêmement rapide, en une vingtaine de jours, et  malgré Is charge de travail du Secrétariat, il a donc fallu faireune enquêteaupres  de toutes les institutions du système des Nations Unies, préparer un document et  l'imprimer pour qu'il soit mis à ia disposition de 1aConférencegéngraledanstoutes  les langues de travail. Peut-être certains délégués ne se rendent-il pas compte de  l'effort considérable qu'il a fallu déployer et de la charge que l'accomplissement  de cette tâche a imposée à mes collègues du Secrétariat. Je voudrais donc dire que  le Secrétariat s'est parfaitement acquitté de samission - je souhaiterais d'ailleurs  que l'on recherche auprès d'autres institutions du système des Nations Unies si une  telle diligence y a son pareil. Voilà, Monsieur le PrésidentIrna premièreobservation.
38.3 La deuxième concerne la sous-représentation des Etats membres. Nous avons  déployé des efforts énormes pour essayer de résoudre ce problème. Si vous comparez  les chiffres, vous remarquerez que la plupart des Etats - je ne dis pas la totalité,  mais la plupart - qui ne sont pas encore représentés au Secrétariat sont des Etats  qui ont adhéré à l'organisation depuis peu de temps. Parmi les autres, qui sont  membres de l'Organisation depuis longtemps, il en est qui ne nous fournissent au-  cune candidature. I1 va de soi que le Directeur général ne peut pas se substituer  aux gouvernements des pays intéressés lorsqu'ils ne présentent pas eux-mêmes de  candidatures à des postes.
38.4 D'autres pays encore sont sous-représentés pour des raisons qu'ils connais-  sent fort bien eux-mêmes. Ce que je viens d'affirmer ne vise pas à excuser la per-  sistance de leur sous-représentation, mais il faut que ces Etats prennent aussi des  dispositions au niveau national pour que cette sous-représentation puisse dispa-  raître. Monsieur le Président, si les Etats membres en question le veulent, je suis  prêt à leur donner des informations très claires sur les raisons de leur sous-  représentation. Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi simplement d'ajouter que le  Secrétariat fera tout ce qui dépend de lui pour,que la sous-représentation des Etats  soit corrigée, mais il ne pourra y parvenir sans la coopération des Etats membres  intéressés. J'ai l'intention, en tout état de cause, d'Etudier la question systéma-  tiquement, pays par pays ; je serai prêt, lors de la prochaine session de la Confé-  rence générale, à examiner sur pièces, avec chaque Etat qui le souhaiterait, les  raisons de sa sous-représentation.
38.5 Par ailleurs, certains postes vacants du Secrétariat n'ont pas pu être  pourvus pour la simple raison qu'il était nécessaire de les "geler" ou, en tout  cas, de différer le recrutement - ce ne sont pas toujours les mêmes ; ils changent  périodiquement. I1 fallait en effet tenir compte du fait que l'Unesco était la  seule organisation du systeme des Nations Unies à appliquer le principe du budget  semi-intégral. Grâce à l'adoption du système du budget intégral, je pense que nous  allons pouvoir' maintenant accélérer le recrutement. Cela permettra d'améliorer la  situation des pays qui sont sous-représentés, à condition bien entendu que ceux-ci  proposent des candidats qui répondent aux critères des descriptions de poste ainsi  qu'aux exigences définies par l'Acte constitutif. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
(39.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Director-General for these valuable clarifications.
(39.2) I now ask the delegate of Guinea to take the floor.
40.1 M. KAMARA (Guinée) :  Mercie, Monsieur le Président. Je ne pensais plus devoir prendre la parole  ici. De quoi s'agit-il ? I1 faudrait peut-être revenir très rapidement à la genèse  du problème, même si le Directeur général l'a déjà évoquée avant moi. Notre Orga-  nisation est une organisation qui existe depuis longtemps déjà : c'est une Orga-  nisation qui a évolué dans le temps et qui continue à évoluer encore aujourd'hui,  avec notre concours. A sa création, l'écrasante majorité des Etats membres d'au-  jourd'hui n'étaient pas encore indépendants et il est donc normal que ses struc-  tures soient progressivement adaptées aux nouvelles situations. L'action du Direc-  teur général, du Secrétariat et du Conseil exécutif ne pouvait qu'aller dans ce  sens ; c'est dans cet esprit, dans cette optique, qu'à sa 117e session, le Conseil  exécutif, où toutes les régions sont représentées, après avoir exprimé sa satis-  faction des progrès réalisés en matière de recrutement et de renouvellement du per-  sonnel, a, par sa décision 8.6, invité le Directeur général à soumettre à la Confé-  rence générale à sa vingt-deuxième session un rappcrt préliminaire sur la possi-  bilité de revoir les quotas attribués aux Etats membres afin de permettre à l'Orga-  nisation de poursuivre les progrès réalisés dans le sens d'une plus grande équité.  C'est dans cette optique que les différentes hypothèses figurant dans le document
2 2  C/56 Add. nous ont été présentées. I1 est donc clair qu'il s'agissait bien pour  la Conférence générale - qui, je le rappelle, est souveraine - de choisir entre  ces différentes hypothèses.
40.2 Je voudrais ensuite dire un mot du projet de résolution 22 C/ADM/DR.4 que  certains ont voulu à tout prix amender et qui a été contesté ici. Dans les para-  graphes 1, 2 et 3 de ce texte, nous relevons les idées suivantes : obtenir que le  recrutenent se fasse sur une base géographique aussi large que possible, garantir
1335    une répartition géographique équitable afin, non seulement d'accroître l'effica-  cité du travail du Secrétariat, mais aussi de renforcer la coopération internatio-  nale eu égard à la nécessité d'instaurer un nouvel ordre économique international.  Quant aux paragraphes 4 et 5, ils insistent sur la notion d'équité dont j'ai déjà  parlé et que tout le monde ne peut qu'approuver.
40.3 Le libellé du paragraphe 6 montre que nous avons retenu une des hypothèses  formulées dans le document 22 C/56 Add. Vous pouvez constater que la sagesse a  conduit les très nombreux auteurs de notre projet de résolution à choisir la four-  chette 2-8 qui nous donnait un mid-point de 5, soit une progression d'un point seu-  lement en sept ans, alors que, d'un seul coup, à Nairobi, une progression d'un  point et demi avait été décidée comme je l'ai déjà fait observer à la Commission  administrative. De plus, en acceptant le quota minimal de 2, nous baissions volon-  tairement notre minimum sans que personne nous l'ait demandé. Du reste, le para-  graphe 32 du document 22 C/56 Add. a pris comme hypothèses les fourchettes 3-8,
4-7 et 5-6 avec un mid-point de 5,5, qui nous rapprochait davantage de l'équité,  laquelle n'a pas pour but, il faut le souligner ici, de supprimer les avantages  mais de réduire des écarts qui sont, il faut le reconnaître, trop considérables  actuellement. En faisant cette concession qui ne nous avait pas été demandée, nous  voulions montrer notre souci de nous conformer aux directives du Conseil exécutif  et de répondre aux aspirations légitimes des Etats membres, dans le but d'obtenir  dès le départ un consensus. Le paragraphe 7 de notre projet de résolution témoi-  gnait du même souci d'entente, de la même volonté de souplesse puisqu'il priait le  Directeur général d'appliquer cette décision de manière progressive.
40.4 D'autre part, il ne faut pas oublier que nous avons pris pour assiette un  chiffre de 1.100 postes au lieu de 950. I1 faut en effet attirer ici l'attention  sur un autre facteur : un certain nombre de postes pourraient être ajoutés à ceux  qui sont actuellement soumis à la répartition géographique. Tel peut être le cas  de certains postes dits "linguistiques" qui ont en fait un caractère plus adminis-  tratif que linguistique.
40.5 Mais ce qu'il ne faut surtout pas oublier, c'est que notre projet de réso-  lution concernait 145 Etats membres sur 161, c'est-à-dire les Etats 2 faible repré-  sentation - je dirais même 156 ou 158 Etats puisqu'un des amendements proposés ne  concernait que trois Etats, les trois plus gros contributeurs - les Etats-Unis,  l'URSS et le Japon - et un autre amendement concernait cinq Etats : aucun autre  des 161 Etats, je dois vous le dire, n'est concerné par les amendements proposés.  Voyons cela de plus près : dans le cas du projet de résolution 22 C/ADM/DR.4, le  quota minimal des 145 Etats à faible représentation diminue, passant de 3 à 2 ;  quant au quota minimal des trois plus gros contributeurs, il tombe de 92 à 85 dans  le cas des Etats-Unis, soit une diminution de 7 points, et de 41 à 35 dans le cas  de l'Union soviétique, et reste de 35 dans le cas du Japon. Seuls deux Etats su-  bissent donc en fait une diminution. Considérons maintenant l'amendement proposé  par l'Union soviétique : alors que les 145 Etats membres à faible représentation  verraient toujours leur minimum tomber de 3 à 2, celui des deux plus gros contri-  buteurs passerait de 92 à 97 dans le cas des Etats-Unis, soit un gain de 5 points,  et de 35 à 39 dans le cas du Japon, soit un gain de 4 points, tandis que l'Union  soviétique elle-même, paradoxalement, perdrait un point, puisque son minimum passe-  rait de 41 à 40. Je pense avoir montré que cet amendement, qui n'intéresse en fait  que deux Etats membres, ne résout nullement le problème qui nous est posé, celui  de la réduction des écarts, c'est-à-dire de la recherche de l'équité.
40.6 I1 faut certainement éviter de confondre les intérêts majeurs avec les  questions de détail. En effet, les trois plus gros contributeurs ont chacun des  relations privilégiées avec les pays à faible représentation et en particulier  avec les pays en développement. En tout cas la fructueuse coopération que nous  entretenons avec ces trois grands contributeurs dans tous les domaines ne permet  pas d'attacher tant d'importance à de tels détails.
40.7 Quant aux critères à prendre en considération pour la fixation des quotas  dans l'intérêt de l'évolution de notre Organisation et de son adaptation aux  réalités nouvelles, je n'en retiendrai que deux : le critère culturel et le critère  éthique. Pour que la diversité culturelle puisse effectivement enrichir notre Orga-  nisation en créant et en préservant l'harmonie au sein de son Secrétariat, il est  éminemment souhaitable que celui-ci bénéficie d'une présence plus nombreuse et plus  diversifiée des cadres des pays à faible représentation qui sont animés du profond  désir de mettre leurs potentialités intellectuelles, leur génie spécifique, à la  disposition de l'Unesco, car la culture c'est avant tout la polyphonie. Du point  de vue éthique, il faut avoir constamment à l'esprit le principal objectif que  poursuit notre Organisation : la compréhension internationale par l'éducation, la  science, la culture et la communication pour le bonheur de nos peuples dans la paix.  Le Secrétariat doit être le creuset au sein duquel doit se forger ce noble idéal.
40.8 Monsieur le Président, pour terminer, je voudrais clairement dire ici que  l'enjeu n'était pas poux nous la victoire, car sur qui l'aurions-nous remportée ?  Le combat que nous avons mené a été un combat pour l'équité, pour réduire les  écarts, et dans un tel combat personne ne peut être perdant. Je crois que cette  victoire que nous avons recherchée a été la victoire de tous. J'ai été peut-être  un peu long, mais il le fallait, car notre projet de résolution s'est heurté à de  telles oppositions que nous nous devions de clarifier certaines choses. Quand les  intérêts de 145 Etats sont en jeu, ne faut-il pas prendre la parole pour souligner  que des injustices ont été commises et que les choses n'ont pas été faites comme  elles devaient l'être. C'est pourquoi je tenais à porter ces éléments à la connais-  sance de tous. Merci, Monsieur le Président.  : 421 t\,\  .- "Jb &I _sui
(41.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I thank the delegate of Guinea.
(41.2) And now ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work on the report  and recommendations of the Administrative Commission. Accordingly, I must extend once  again, personally and on your behalf, my profound thanks and appreciation to Ambassador  Azzeddine Guellouz and the members of his Commission for the excellent and competent way  in which the work of the Commission was conducted.  ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF COMMITTEES FOR THE TWENTY-THIRD SESSION OF THE GENERAL  CONFERENCE (agenda item 57) AND ELECTION OF MEVBERS OF OTHER BODIES (agenda  item 58)  SESSION (point 57 de l'ordre du jour) ET ELECTION DES MEMBRES D'AUTRES ORGANISMES  (point 58 de l'ordre du jour)  ELECCION DE LOS MIEMBROS DE LOS COMITES DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL PARA LA 23a.  REUNION (punto 57 del Orden del Día) Y ELECCION DE LOS MIEMBROS DE OTROS ORGANOS  (punto 58 del Orden del Dia)  BMEOP YJIEHOB KOMMTETOB ABAnUATb TPETbEn CECCMM rEHEPAJIbHOn KOHOEPEHUMH  ELECTION DES MEMBRES DE COMITES DE LA CONFERENCE GENERALE POUR LA VINGT-TROISIEME  (nYHKT 57 nOBeCTKH AHR) M BbEOPbI qJIEHOB APYrMX OPïAHOB (rIyHKT 58 IIOBeCTKEi AHR)  +.~i;i.~~ (JLPSSI jS+ ip ov +,JI) +I= .WL^JI %,>,LU -+I fur +,-I  ( J u g 1  JJ+ ip oh MI) ~ j - b l i  G ~ I  GLI  ~*h&%.=-f--BBìx&%E&%E (ìxjEEaB 5 7 1 $Pi&+g~$L&&j$?!?i ($xggï€l5 8 1
(42.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  of the Nominations Committee. We shall take up Items 51 and 58 which are entitled, respec-  tively, 'Election of members of committees for the twenty-third session of the General  Conference' and 'Election of members of other bodies'. I would like to draw your atten-  tion to the French text of document 22 C/126 and 22 C/126 Addendum and Corrigendum which  contain the third report of the Nominations Committee on these two items.
(42.2) I now invite the Chairman of the Nominations Committee, Mr Antoine Ndinqa Oba, to  introduce the report to the General Conference. The Chairman of the Nominations Committee  has the floor.  Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to consideration of the third report
43.1 M. NDINGA OBA (Congo), président du Comité des candidatures :  le troisième rapport du Comité des candidatures, que je vais présenter, figure  dans le document 22 C/126.  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Comme vous venez de l'indiquer,
43.2 Le Comité a tenu ses 6e, 7e, Be et 9e séances les 16, 18, 21, 22 et 23 no-  vembre 1983 afin d'adopter ses propositions relatives 2 la composition d'organismes  dont les membres doivent être élus ou désignés d'une autre manière par la Confé-  rence générale, conformément 2 l'article 30, paragraphe 5, du Règlement intérieur  de la Conférence générale.
43.3 Le Comité a examiné les nombreuses candidatures présentées aux différents  comités, conseils et commissions. Le débat qui a eu lieu a montré l'intérêt crois-  sant des Etats membres pour ces organes et leur désir d'y participer de plus en  plus activement.
43.4 La répartition géographique équitable des sièges du Comité intergouverne-  mental intérimaire d'informatique a suscité un très large débat, auquel un grand  nombre de délégations ont participé. Tout en reconnaissant qu'ilyavaitdescomités  ou commissions composés de 30 membres - comme il était proposé pour ce Comité -  plusieurs délégations ont fait observer que le nombre d'Etats membres avait changé  et que, par conséquent, le nombre d'Etats membres dans certains groupes était très  différent de celui qui existait lors de la répartition initiale.
43.5 Plusieurs délégations ont appuyé la proposition visant 2 fonder sur une  proportion arthmétique la répartition des membres du Comité intergouvernemental  intérimaire d'informatique. Un délégué, appuyé par quelques autres, a estimé qu'une  solution pourrait consister à augmenter le nombre de sièges.
43.6 Plusieurs délégués ont également attiré l'attention du Comité sur la néces-  sité d'un réexamen approfondi, 2 la lumière de la situation actuelle, de la répar-  tition géographique entre les groupes dans tous les différents organismes.
43.7 En conséquence, le Comité a chargé le Président et les chefs des groupes  électoraux de se consulter pour trouver une formule qui tiendrait compte des opi-  nions exprimées au cours du débat.
43.8 Ces consultations ont abouti à la répartition géographique suivante :  groupe I - 7 membres ; groupe II - 3 membres ; groupe III - 6 membres ; groupe IV -
6 membres et groupe V - 11 membres.
43.9 Cette répartition tient compte de toutes les déclarations faites lors de  la 7e séance du Comité, concernant notamment le respect de la répartition propor-  tionnelle, avec les aménagements convenus entre les chefs de groupe. L'accord qui  a présidé 2 cette répartition a dûment tenu compte du caractère intérimaire de ce  Comité, lequel est appelé à élaborer le projet de statuts du programme intergou-  vernemental d'informatique, qui seront présentés par le Directeur général 2 la  Conférence générale 2 sa vingt-troisième session. Ce consensus, qui a pu être ob-  tenu grace 2 la coopération et 2 la compréhension du Directeur généra!., a permis  de porter le nombre de sièges de 30 à 33.
43.10 Après le retrait d'un certain nombre de candidatures, lors de la Be séance,  le Comité a adopté à l'unanimité la composition de six organismes.
43.11 Au titre du point 57 de l'ordre du jour, le Comité a adopté 2 l'unanimité  la composition suivante pour le Comité juridique (21 membres) : Argentine, Australie,  Chili, Egypte, Equateur, Etats-Unis d'Ar;érique, Ghana, Grèce, Liban, Nigeria, Pays-  Bas, Philippines, République démocratique allemande, Sri Lanka, Suisse, Togo,  Tunisie, Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yémen.
43.12 Le Comité a également décidé 2 l'unanimité de recommander la composition  suivante pour le Comité du S m  (21 membres) : Australie, Bangladesh, Belgique,  Bénin, Côte d'Ivoire, Emirats arabes unis, Etats-Unis d'Amérique, Finlande, France,  Inde, Irak, Kenya, Nigéria, Panama, République centrafricaine, République domini-  caine, République socialiste soviétique d'Ukraine, Royaume-Uni, Sénégal, Suisse,  Togo.
43.13 Au titre du point 58 de l'ordre du jour et 2 la suite du retrait d'un cer-  tain nombre de candidatures, le Comité a décidé 2 l'unanimité de recommander 2 la  Conférence générale ia composition suivante pour les quatre organes ci-après :  Conseil du Bureau international d'éducation (10 membres) : Brésil, Chine, Inde,  Japon, Nigéria, Oman, République-Unie de Tanzanie, Sénégal, Suisse, Union des Répu-  bliques socialistes soviétiques. Conseil international de coordination du Programme  sur l'homme et labiosphère (15 membres) : Canada, Colombie, Cuba, Etats-Unis d'Amé-  rique, France, Inde, Italie, Kenya, Malaisie, Yexique, Népal, Nigéria, République-  Unie du Cameroun, Union des république socialistes soviétiques, Zambie. Comité  exécutif de la Campagne internationale pour la création du Musée &la Nubie4  Assouan et du Musée national de la civilisation égyptienne au Caire (15 membres) :  Allemagne (République fédérale a'), Belgique, Côte d'Ivoire, Egypte, Equateur,
1338    Etats-Unis d'Amérique, France, Italie, Népal, Panama, Pays-Bas, République centra-  fricaine, République-Unie du Cameroun, Soudan, Suède. Commission de conciliation  et de bons offices chargée de rechercher la solution des différeequi naîtraient  entre Etats parties à la Convention concernant la lutte contre la discrimination  dans le domaine de l'enseignement (4 membres) : M. Ismael Antonio Vargas Bonilla  (Costa Rica), M. Vincent Depasquale (Malte) , M. Fawzi Abdel Zahir Khamis (Egypte) ,  Mlle Margaret Joan Marshall- (Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord).
43.14 Pour les autres organismes, tous les groupes, sauf le groupe I, ont pré-  senté un nombre de candidats correspondant exactement à celui des membres sortants  pour chaque groupe.
43.15 Le Comité a donc procédé à un scrutin secret pour le groupe I, où le nombre  de candidats était supérieur à celui des sièges à pourvoir.
43.16 En raison d'un vice de procédure qui est apparu lors du dépouillement de  ce scrutin, le Comité a décidé de procéder 2 un nouveau scrutin secret qui a eu  lieu à sa 9e séance, le 22 novembre 1983.
43.17 Après proclamation des résultats du scrutin secret, le Comité des candida-  tures a décidé de recommander à la Conférence générale la composition suivantepour  les organismes ci-après : Comité intergouvernemental pour l'éducation physique et  -___ le sport (15 membres) : Allemagne (République fédérale d') , Angola, Arabie Saoudite,  Belgique, Chine, Congo, Espagne, Etats-Unis d'Amérique, Malawi, Nicaragua, Répu-  blique de Corée, Royaume-Uni, Suède, Suisse, Zambie. Conseil intergouvernemental  du Programme hydrologique international (15 membres) : Australie, Brésil, Cuba,  Egypte, Espagne, Norvège, Ouganda, Pologne, République arabe syrienne, Cao Tomé-et-  Princi-pe, Thaïlande, Tunisie, Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques, Vene-  suela, Zambie. comité intergouvernemental pour la promotion du retour de biens  culturels à leur pays d'origine ou de leur restitution en cas d'appropriation illé-  __ gale (10 membres) : Canada, Danemark, Irak, Italie, Malawi, Nigéria, République  dominicaine, République islamique d'Iran, Roumanie, Zaïre. Conseil intergouverne-  mental du Programme international pour le développement de la communication (17  membres) : Algérie, Allemagne (République fédérale d'), Antigua-et-Barbuda, Argen-  tine, Bénin, Bulgarie, Canada, Ethiopie, France, Mozambique, Nigéria, Norvège,  Ouganda, Pays-Bas, République-Unie du Cameroun, Sénégal, Yémen. Conseil intergou-  vernemental du Programme général d'information (15 membres) : Afghanistan, Belgique,  Chili, Chine, Colombie, Congo, Egypte, Etats-Unis d'Amérique, Japon, Kenya, Mada-  gascar, Qatar, République-Unie de Tanzanie, Royaume-Uni, Uruguay. Comité intergou-  ~. vernemental intérimaire d ' i n f o r m a t a  (33 membres) : Algérie, Allemagne (République  fédérale d'), Argentine, Autriche, Bangladesh, Brésil, Chili, Colombie, Congo, Cuba,  Danemark, Etats-Unis d'Amérique, France, Gabon, Haïti, Inde, Italie, Kenya, Maroc,  Mozambique, Nigéria, Pakistan, Pologne, République islamique d'Iran, République-  Unie de Tanzanie, Royaume-Uni, Soudan, Sri Lanka, Tchécoslovaquie, Thaïlande,  Tunisie, Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques, Zaïre.
43.18 Monsieur le Président, le rapport que je viens de présenter est le fruit  de la collaboration et de l'entente qui ont marqué les travaux du Comité. Qu'il  me soit permis ici de remercier de leur collaboration tous les chefs de délégation  membres du Comité ainsi que leurs suppléants. Je voudrais en outre les féliciter  de leur volonté de parvenir à des accords par consensus ou au moyen de négociations,  ce qui a été une des caractéristiques de cette session de la Conférence générale.  Je remercie les vice-présidents du Comité et les chefs desgroupes électoraux qui,  par leur soutien et leurs conseils, ont aidé le Comité à parvenir à des accords  acceptables. Je voudrais également remercie M. Gratton Wilson, de l'Australie, qui  a veillé au bon déroulement des élections au sein du Comité, ainsi que les délé-  gués qui ont exercé les fonctions de scrutateurs. Je souhaite enfin exprimer ma  profonde reconnaissance à Mlle Maria Cilia, secrétaire du Comité, et au personnel  du Secrétariat pour le travail qu'ils ont accompli, ainsi qu'aux interprètes pour  le concours qu'ils nous ont apporté. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.  _____--  _I-____- : E ¿ > \   . d>+ C,lc LWAI ,I ö J L  $i ,-L3 +&
(44.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Nominations Committee for his report.
(44.2) I suggest that the Conference approve the membership of the different organs in  the order in which they appear on the Agenda of the General Conference.
(44.3) If it meets with your approval, let us first take up Item 57.1: Election of members  of the Legal Committee. The Nominations Committee recommends that the Conference elect  the twenty-one members whose names are listed in paragraph 10 of document 22 C/126. Do  you approve this recommendation? If there are no observations, I shall consider that  you approve this recoymendation.
(44.4) The recommendation is adopted.
(44.5) We shall turn now, ladies and gentlemen, to Item 57.2: Election of members of the  Headquarters Committee. You will find in paragraph 11 of document 22 C/126 the names of  the twenty-one members recommended by the Nominations Committee. If there are no objec-  tions to these, I will consider that you are in agreement and that you have decided to  approve this recommendation.
(44.6) The recommendation is adopted.
(44.7) We shall now proceed to Item 58.1: Election of members of the Intergovernmental  Committee for the Development of Physical Education and Sport. In paragraph 21 of 22 C/126  the Nominations Committee has listed the names of fifteen members whom it recommends for  this Committee. If there are no observations or objections I shall consider that you  approve the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
(44.8) The recommendation is adopted.
(44.9) Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now consider Item 58.2: Election of members of the  Council of the International Bureau of Education. In paragraph 13 of document 22 C/î26,  you will find the list of ten members recommended by the Nominations Committee. If there  are no observations or objections on this matter I shall consider this recommendation  adopted by the General Conference.
(44.10) The recommendation is adopted.
(44.11) We shall turn, ladies and gentlemen, to Item 58.3: Election of members of the  International Co-ordinating Council of the Programme on Man and the Biosphere. The  Nominations Committee has recommended fifteen members whose names are listed in paragraph
14 of document 22 C/126. If there are no observations or objections, I shall consider  that this recommendation has your approval.  On behalf of you all and on my own behalf I wish to thank the Chairman of the
(44.12) The recommendation is adopted.
(44.13) Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to Item 58.4: Election of the Intergovernmental  Council of the International Hydrological Programme. In paragraph 22 of document 22 C/126,  you will find the list of fifteen members recommended by the Nominations Committee. If  there are no objections, I shall consider that the recommendation of the Nominations  Committee is approved.
(44.14) The recommendation is adopted.
(44.15) We shall now consider Item 58.5: Election of members of the Intergovernmental  Committee for Promoting the Return of Cultural Property to its Countries of Origin or its  Restitution in Case of Illicit Appropriation. You will find in paragraph 23 of document
22 C/126 a list of the ten members recommended by the Nominations Committee. If there  are no observations or objections, I shall consider that this recommendation is approved.
(44.16) This recommendation is adopted.
(44.17) Now ladies and gentlemen, we shall consider Item 58.6: Election of members of the  Executive Committee of the International Campaign for the Establishment of the Nubia  Museum in Aswan and the National Museum of Egyptian Civilization in Cairo. The Nomina-  tions Committee has recommended the election of the fifteen members listed in paragraph 15  of document 22 C/126. If there are no objections, I shall consider that you approve this  recommendation.
(44.18) The recommendation is adopted.
(44.19) Now ladies and gentlemen, we shall turn to Item 58.7: Election of members of the  Intergovernmental Council of the International Programme for the Development of Communi-  cation. The list of seventeen members recommended by the Nominations Committee for this  Council is to be found in paragraph 24 of document 22 C/126. If there are no observations  or objections, I shall consider that this list has your approval.
(44.20) The recommendation is adopted.
(44.21) Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now consider Item 58.8: Election of members of the  Intergovernmental Council for the General Information Programme. You will find the list  of nominees under paragraph 25 of document 22 C/126. If there are no objections or  observations, I shall consider that this list has your approval.
(44.22) The recommendation is adopted.
(44.23) Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to Item 58.9: Election of four members of the  Conciliation and Good Offices Commission responsible for seeking the settlement of any  disputes which may arise between States Parties to the Convention against Discrimination  in Education. The names of these four members appear in paragraph 16 of document 22 C/126  If there are no objections or observations, I shall consider that this recommendation has  your approval.
(44.24) The recommendation is adopted.
(44.25) We now turn,,ladies and gentlemen, to Item 58.10: Election of members of the  Interim Intergovernmental Committee on Informatics. The Nominations Committee has recom-  mended the election OP the thirty-three members whose names are listed in paragraph 26 of  document 22 C/126. If there are no objections or observations, I will consider that this  recommendation has your approval.
(44.26) The recommendation is adopted.
(44.27) The representative of Turkey has requested the floor. Would he please proceed.
45. M. SAYINSOY (Turquie) :  Les élections aux comités et conseils intergouvernementaux de l'Unesco  doivent s'effectuer selon une répartition géographique équitable et un roulement  approprié. En pratique, cette équité et ce roulement n'existent jamais pour le  groupe occidental, c'est-à-dire le groupe I, parce que qfielques pays privilégiés  sont membres de plusieurs conseils ou comités intergouvernementaux tandis que  d'autres ne sont représentés dans aucun conseil ou comité intergouvernemental.  Par exemple, il y a des pays qui sont membres de sept conseils ou comités inter-  gouvernementaux tandis que d'autres ne sont membres d'aucun conseil. Je ne veux  pas donner d'exemple concret mais les intéressés peuvent facilement trouver les  noms des pays qui sont surreprésentés, sous-représentés ou pas représentés du  tout. Cela pour la simple raison que le groupe occidental, c'est-à-dire le  groupe I, arguant du pluralisme du groupe - qui est un pluralisme 5 sens unique -  propose plus de candidats qu'il n'y a de sièges vacants et qu'à chaque fois, ce  sont les mêmes pays qui sont élus. Tous les efforts déployés au sein du groupe  pour s'entendre sur le nombre de candidatures 5 présenter afin d'éviter cette  situation déplorable n'aboutissent 5 aucun résultat satisfaisant : quelques pays  désireux de perpétuer leurs privilèges prennent systématiquement position contre  les suggestions qui sont faites en ce sens parce qu'alors il y aurait une possi-  bilité de rotation qui léserait leurs intérêts. Pour remédier à cette situation
1342    qui est incompatible avec les objectifs de l'Unesco, il faut chercher une solu-  tion équitable, soit en limitant le nombre de mandats successifs d'un même Etat  dans un comité ou un conseil intergouvernemental, soit en limitant le nombre de  conseils ou comités intergouvernementaux auxquels un même Etat peut être élu.  Monsieur le Président, ma délégation propose que cette question soit étudiée par  le Secrétariat afin que des suggestions adéquates puissent être faites lors de  la prochaine session de la Conférence générale. Merci, Monsieur le Président.  : &A' IT,\  . Ll-. '. &LAX Li3.f "> d A l L u  & +>L MI &.i
(46.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  noted.
(46.2) Ladies and gentlemen, I must now thank once again the members of the Nominations  Committee for the excellent work which they have carriedoutfrom the beginning of this  session of the General Conference. And I would like on your behalf and on mine to thank  the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Antoine Ndinqa Oba for the skill and wisdom with which  he has presided over its deliberations.
(46.3) I declare this meeting closed.  I thank the representative of Turkey for his statement and its contents have been  The meeting rose at 6.55 p.m.  La séance est levée à 18 h.55  Se levanta la sesion a las 18.55