Thirteenth plenary meeting
2 November 1983 at 3.10 p.m.  President : Mr TELL (Jordan)  later: Mr SMÍD (Czechoslovakia)  later: Mr TELL (Jordan)  Treizième séance plénière
2 novembre 1983 à 15 h.10  Président : ,M. TELL (Jordanie)  puis : M. ;#ID (Tchécoslovaquie)  puis : M. TELL (Jordanie)  Decimotercera sesión plenaria
3aTeM: r-H mblkia /~eXOCJIOBaKHff/
717    FOURTH SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE/  QUATRIEME RAPPORT SUPPLEMENTAIRE DU PRESIDENT DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES POUVOIRS/  CUARTO INFORME COMPLEMENTARIO DEL PRESIDENTE DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION DE PODERES/  YETBEPTbItI nOllOJIHHTEnbHbIm AOIUIAQ iiPEaCE,llATEJU KOMMTETA il0 IIPOBEPKE llOnHOMOWn/  \ J U l ! l  ji,î + '+&J *'JI &I291 s+ll 4&%+ %B&&BB?;k#b%*&
(1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I hereby declare open the thirteenth plenary meeting.
(1.2) I now call on the Chairman of the Credentials Committee, who will present the Con-  ference with a short report.
2.1 Mr BALASUBRAMANIAM (Sri Lanka) (Chairman of the Credentials Committee):  Thank you, Mr President. I have the honour to inform the General Conference  that provisional credentials have now been received from the delegation of Namibia.  I recommend that, subject to later presentation of credentials in due form, the  delegation of Namibia be allowed in the meantime to take part in the work of the  present session of the General Conference.
2.2 In addition, credentials in due form have been received from Democratic  Yemen and Saudi Arabia which had previously submitted provisional credentials.  Mr President, I recommend to the General Conference that these two Member States  be fully admitted to take part in the work of the present session of the General  Conference. Thank you, Mr President.
(3) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Chairman of the Credentials Committee.  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)/DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE' (suite)/DEBATE DE  POLITICA GENERAL (continuación) / OBCYmEHME BOIIPOCOB OBUER llOJIMTMICCI /npo~onnceuue/  LUI 'LUI 'UL ,kl$3w#-& ( 1
(4.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like to point Out that this  meeting has twenty speakers'on its list. I would therefore like to remind all delegates  to observe the time limit in so far as possible.
(4.2) I now call on H.E. Mr Ranji Chandisingh, Minister of Education, Social Development  and Culture, Chairman of the National Commission and head of the Guyanese delegation.
5.1 Mr CHANDISINGH (Guyana) :  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is with considerable pleasure  that the delegation of Guyana extends to you, Mr President, our congratulations  on your election. We feel certain that, under your most distinguished guidance,  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,
718    our deliberations here will prove to be a success. We wish to assure you of  Guyana's fullest co-operation and support.
5.2 May we also take this opportunity of expressing our special pleasure in  welcoming, as Member States, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and Saint Christopher  and Nevis; and, as Associate Member, the Netherlands Antilles. We welcome all the  other Member States which have recently joined our Organization.
5.3 Mr President, my delegation wishes further to convey to the Director-General  our profound satisfaction with and sincere appreciation of the extraordinary wisdom,  skill and commitment which he has consistently demonstrated over the years in guid-  ing the destiny of this Organization.
5.4 The Medium-Term Plan (1984-1989), presented by the Director-General and  adopted at the fourth extraordinary session of the General Conference last year,  and the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985 which is before us, are unique in  the annals of Unesco. For the first time, Member States have been given the oppor-  tunity, the challenge and indeed, the responsibility of formualting the policies  and directing the major programmes of Unesco within a context which is responsive  to the priorities and the realities of the world in which we live, while remaining  faithful to the principles and objectives of the Organization.
5.5 Mr President, when the Medium-Term Plan was first debated here last year,  the delegation of Guyana had reason to note that its remarkable value was that 'it  expresses a faith in humanity and a belief that we can rise above and reach beyond  the disasters which engulf us'. We observed that the Major Programmes of the Plan  were directed towards providing support for'the underprivilegedand tnepolitically  and economically disenfranchised' of this world, and against 'the waste and futility  inherent in building arsenais of war for mass murder'. We raised the question then,  and we raise it again here today: are those who speak and decide for the wealthy,  the powerful nations, prepared to re-direct their financial, technological and  managerial resources in support of those programmes for education, science, culture  and communication, dedicated to the enhancement of human dignity and the service of  man? We reiterate this question because, in the final analysis, we believe it to  be fundamental to the provision of any solution to the problems which confront the  international community.
5.6 For let us make no mistake, it is the highly industrialized nations of the  world which have both the capacity and the means to contribute millions in tangible  resources to the cause of development, the attainment of freedom and the security  of peace.
5.7 What, so far, Mr President, seems tragically absent is the political will  to do so. Indeed, there is already, at the beginning of our deliberations, a  concerted and determined effort on the part of the representatives of some of the  richest nations here to reverse the consensus reached at the extraordinary session  of the General Conference, in an effort to curtail and prune budgetary allocations  to a level destined to cripple the major programmes.
5.8 Mr President, how, in the name of reason, can the principle of zero growth,  for instance, be applied to a budget already overtaken by inflation? Of what value  are the preaching of peace, the advocacy of democracy, the urging of freedom, the  rhetoric of disarmament, the declarations of 'non-intervention', the proclamations  for 'territorial integrity', when, on both sides of the Atlantic, the major powers  between them expend each year billions of dollars on nuclear and conventional  weaponry whose sole purpose is the slaughter of humanity? It is, moreover, these  same nations which, at every international conference or multilateral meeting  concerned with development, quibble over and question the expenditure of a few  million dollars.
5.9 Mr President, is it any wonder that we live in a world decimated by poverty  and torn apart by conflict? Democracy cannot and will not flourishamidst burgeoning  poverty, and this is precisely why Central America, and now the Caribbean, have  become yet another centre of discord, discontent and division. Military interven-  tion and invasion, invoked in the name of defence and security, will not wipe clean  the slate of 300 years of colonial exploitation and economic plunder. Pre-emptive  strikes, helicopter gunships and marine landings are both dramatic and costly, but  they will not feed, clothe or house the peoples of the Caribbean. The fragile,  narrow-based and undeveloped economies of countries like Grenada are legacies of  a colonial past and a condition of the current world economic order. Substandard  education systems, fractured cultures, widespread nutritional deficiencies and  often abject poverty are the precursors of political instability and administrative  chaos.
5.10 But, Mr President, the latest prescription for these ills would - itappears-  be to send in the marines, or is it send for the marines?
5.11 Mr President, the invasion of Grenada and its occupation by United States  military forces and other token troops from the region is both immoral and illegal,  constituting a direct transgression of the territorial rights of Grenada, a small,  poor and underdeveloped Commonwealth Caribbean nation. The invasion sets a danger-  ous precedent and poses a serious threat to peace throughout the entire Caribbean  region and - what is of even greater concern to the delegation of Guyana - opens  the door to a much wider dimension of conflict.
5.12 Guyana has already expressed, through its President, its sadness and regret  over the tragic circumstances which led to the death of Prime Minister Maurice  Bishop and other members of his Cabinet: circumstances which unfortunately resulted  from internal dissension within the governing New-Jewel Movement. It would be  ironic indeed, Mr President, were it not tragic, to note that some nations which  have suddenly embraced the leadership of the Grenadian Government in death, were  foremost in the effort to condemn and ostracize those leaders when they lived.
5.13 Mr President, the Government of Guyana has consistently advocated, as a  fundamental principle of its foreign policy, that each sovereign State must be free  to pursue its own path of development and its own means of political, economic and  social organization. It is a principle enshrined in the Charter and Agreements of  the United Nations, in the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, and in the Organiza-  tion of American States. The invasion of Grenada is a direct and flagrant viola-  tion of this principle and the international agreements attendant upon it.
5.14 Indeed, Mr President, the security and stability of small States are vital  to the effective pursuit and implementation of the objectives of Unesco, in the  field of education, science and culture and communication alike. It is patently  ridiculous to suggest that there is a regional agreement which can be invoked to  justify any nation or group of nations, within or outside the Caribbean region,  invading, or inviting others to invade, another sovereign nation.
5.15 The interventionist nations, led by the United States of America, have been  unable to present the world with any credible evidence that the safety of United  States' or other countries' citizens was threatened or endangered by the events  taking place in Grenada prior to the invasion. Indeed, there seems ample evidence  and testimony to the contrary. Nor has there been any evidence offered, either  preceding or since the invasion, that Grenada posed a security threat to any  country within the Caribbean region or beyond.
5.16 Moreover, it must be of the gravest concern to the international community  that the invasion of Grenada and its occupation by foreign forces took place with-  out any attempt by the United States of America or the other countries involved to  consult with or seek the approval of the wider Commonwealth Caribbean community,  the Commonwealth itself or the international community of nations.
5.17 Mr President, what are the facts? An emergency meeting of the Heads of  Governments of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), was held in Trinidad and Tobago,  under the Chairmanship of that country's Prime Minister, some three days before  the invasion took place. Guyana believed strongly that the Caribbean possessed  the diplomatic capacity and competence to respond in full to the tragic events  unfolding in Grenada. Guyana shared in and was convinced of the efficacy of an  early consensus at that meeting that any resolution of the internal difficulties  then taking place in Grenada, should, among other things: firstly, involve no  external intervention, particularly extra-regional military intervention; secondly,  be wholly regional in nature; and thirdly, not violate international law and/or  the Charter of the United Nations.
5-18 Subsequently, some of the countries participating in that meeting joined the  United States of America in invading Grenada, having withdrawn from the consensus.  And although a substantial number of CARICOM countries, Guyana amongst them, repre-  senting the majority of the Caribbean population, were firmly opposed to any form  of military action against Grenada, none of these countries were consulted or  informed of the decision reached with the United States of America to invade or  occupy Grenada: a decision, as it turns out, which was made, but kept secret,  before the meeting held in Trinidad and Tobago.
5.19 Mr President, from the very outset, the Government of Guyana refused to lend  itself to any action which would violate the 'Inadmissability of Intervention and  Interference inthe InternalAffairs of States', subscribedtobyall CARICOMcountries  which were members of the United Nations when it was agreed by the General Assembly in 1981.  We cannot ignore the fact that the invading forces, involving some 10,000 and pos-  sibly more United States troops and highly sophisticated weaponry, have now become  occupying forces, have confronted and killed Grenadian citizens, have attacked and  killed citizens of a Third Party on Grenadian soil who were there at the invitation  of the Grenadian Government. Nor can we ignore the fact that they have now  announced their intention to impose a new Government in Grenada, but with specific
120    limitations against some citizens of Grenada participating in that government. So  much for the arguments we have heard at this forum about the 'restoration of demo-  cracy' and 'freedom from tyranny'.
5.20 It is for these reasons that the Government of Guyana condemns the invasion  of Grenada, as do the vast majority of Member States of Unesco, from North and  South, East and West. We invite this assembly to join us in that condemnation and  seek with us the immediate withdrawal of all foreign forces from Grenada.
5.21 Mr President, what is taking place in Grenada is, unfortunately, just another  manifestation of the alarming trend towards major power dominance being forced upon  the world through the barrel of a gun. The fault at least partly lies within our-  selves. Once we abandon the principles of sovereign equality, mutual respect,  territorial integrity and ideological pluralism, the dogs of war will find us easy  prey. It is imperative that we learn to place our mutual interests above our  potential disagreements.
5.22 The horror and brutality suffered by the people of Lebanon, the denial of  the Palestinian people's right to a homeland, the distressing loss of life as Iran  and Iraq remain locked in battle, all continue to be of grave concern and regret to  my government.
5.23 Mr President, my delegation applauds the fact that the Director-General has  listed, in the Medium-Term Plan, as foremost among the denial of human rights, the  continuing existence of apartheid in Southern Africa. Yet the racist regime remains  entrenched in Pretoria and independent neighbouring African States are increasingly  being threatened by frequent incursions by the apartheid regime's military forces  with impunity. If only some of those who are so ready to send their troops abroad  in the name of freedom would join others in the struggle to cut out the ugly canker  of racism in that benighted country! The United Nations has declared this week a  week of solidarity with the people of Namibia. My delegation urges all Member  States of Unesco to join hands in the struggle for the freedom of Namibia from the  racist regime.
5.24 Mr President, let me draw your attention to yet another area of human rights  denied to the greater part of humanity: I refer to the right to communicate, which  is today denied by an information dictatorship owned, managed and manipulated by  the developed nations. The delegation of Guyana remains firmly committed to the  proposition enunciated by the Director-General in the Medium-Term Plan, that inform-  ation is a 'key resource marked out for a major role still more decisive than that  of a raw material and energy'.
5.25 My delegation believes that the International Programme for the Development  of Communication (IPDC) is both a practical and a pragmatic means of developing  communication infrastructures and facilities in the Third World. We urge those  nations, both in the North and South, with the resources at their disposal, to  follow the examples set by Norway and France in committing funds generously and  unconditionally to the IPDC Special Account. Let me add that my delegation is  committed to support and work for the programme and budget proposed in Major  Programme III, 'Communication in the service of man'.
5.26 Mr President, while we may continue to hope that the industrialized nations  will come to realize that the perpetuation of a world economic order which has  triggered an economic crisis of frightening dimensions is in nobody's interest, it  is imperative that the developing nations urgently and collectively pursue paths  of development devoted to self-reliance, mutual exchange and advantage. Unesco's  major programmes devoted to education, science, technology and the human environ-  ment can and should serve as a major catalyst in this regard. The major programme  designed to encourage regional and international co-operation among Member States  is particularly noteworthy, especially with respect to the training of educators  in rural areas and the advancement of adult literacy.
5.27 In this context, my delegation recommends that the Director-General take  note of the 'Action Programme for Co-operation in the Fields of Education and  Culture Among the Non-aligned and Other Developing Countries', agreed upon at the  recently concluded Conference of Ministers of Education and Culture hosted by the  Democratic People's Republic of Korea in Pyongyang, so that there may be co-  ordination with Unesco's relevant major programmes.
5.28 Mr President, my delegation supports, in principle, the decentralization of  Unesco's activities. We join with others of our colleagues in the Caribbean sub-  group in urging the Director-General to expand the intersectoral office in the  Caribbean so that it may better respond to the needs and concerns of the region.
5.29 Mr President, Unesco's programmes seek, above all else, to integrate man-  kind into a cohesive whole through education and communication. The world in
721    which we live can no longer survive, nor even function, unless as a family of  nations; and no family can flourish or be happy when the greater part of it re-  mains in poverty and misery.
5.30 This General Conference, in the view of the delegation of Guyana, will have  proved to be a success, if our work during the five weeks that we are here contri-  butes in some small measure to helping a troubled and unhappy world, and if we  act to place our mutual interests above our potential disagreements.
5.31 Thank you, Mr President.
(6.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  congratulations.  I thank the head of the Guyanese delegation for
(6.2) I would also like to thank all those who so kindly congratulated me at yesterday  afternoon's meeting, which I was unable to attend.
(6.3) I see that the United States representative is asking to exercise his right of  reply. This request has been registered.
(6.4) Allow me now to give the floor to H.E. Dr. Heinz Fischer, Federal Minister of  Science and Research and head of the Austrian delegation.
7.1 Mr FISCHER (Austria) :  late you, Mr President, on your election to this high office. I am sure that your  wisdom and experience will guide us through all the difficulties that we may  encounter during our deliberations and lead us to a successful conclusion of this  Conference. Let me also welcome the members of those delegations whose countries  are participating for the first time in a General Conference of our Organization.
7.2 Mr President, we are meeting at a time of heightening international tension  and worsening economic crisis in which serious unresolved conflicts bring untold  suffering to the peoples of many regions of the world. The inequalities of the  global economy combined with the current economic crisis maintain the greater part  of humanity in a state of poverty and ignorance. The increasing disregard for  human rights and persistent racial discrimination keep countless human beings  deprived of the possibility of enjoying a life in dignity and freedom. We were  aware of this unfortunate situation when the Member States met for the fourth  extraordinary session of the General Conference in November 1982 to lay the founda-  tions for the work of our Organization for the duration of the Second Medium-Term  Plan for 1984-1989. Let us remember that this Plan represents the common denomina-  tor upon which the international community represented in our Organization was able  to agree unanimously. Seen in this light, the Second Medium-Term Plan is based on  a remarkably high level of agreement on the causes of our problems as well as on  the steps that must be taken to remedy the situation.
7.3 However, we must not forget that neither analysis nor prescriptions will by  themselves produce results, but only the exercise of political will and decisive  action on the part of all Member States. Only thus can we bring about the state  of peace and security that the Constitution of our Organization has set as its  highest goal. To put into effect the fourteen major programmes of the Medium-Term  Plan, the Director-General has submitted to the Conference in document 22 C/5 a  Programme and Budget for the Biennium 1984-1985 with which the Austrian delegation  is in general agreement. It is a fact we must face that our political, social and  economic crisis is of our own making. If we wish to change this situation, Member  States must be prepared to make sacrifices. For this reason, the Austrian dele-  gation does not call for zero growth in the budget of our Organization. My  delegation thinks that a budget set somewhere near the lower end of the parameter  accepted by the fourth extraordinary session of the General Conference would seem  adequate.  Mr President, distinguished delegates, let me first and foremost congratu-
7.4 Mr President, it is always a pleasure to draw attention to improvements,  and such improvements have indeed been made by the Organization since the last  regular session of the General Conference three years ago. For this our thanks  are due to the Director-General and his staff, who have rendereü their own task  of administering the Programme more difficult by making our perception of its  implications clearer and easier to grasp. Adapting Part II of document 2 2  C/5  to the structure of the fourteen major programmes of the Second Medium-Term Plan  will make Unesco's activities more readily understandable to a wider public. It  will, however, make co-ordination within the Secretariat even more crucial than  heretofore. When faced with the task of implementing a new programme, it is ab-  solutely essential to bear in mind the results of past activities. The level of  internal evaluation has markedly improved, and one must commend the Director-  General and his staff on the open and clear appraisal of difficulties and short-  falls in the execution of the current programme and budget which is to be found  in document 2 2  C/li.
7.5 I should also like to register here my delegation's complete approval of  the policy of decentralization, as the speaker before has just done, which will  speed up operations and increase responsiveness to local needs. In this context  we are pleased to learn that the Director-General has decided to open a liaison  office at the Vienna International Centre. This will make Unesco's co-ordination  with those organizations of the United Nations system that have their Headquarters  in Vienna easier and will, we hope, also lead to a further intensification of  Austria's co-operation with Unesco.
7.6 Unesco's field of competence covers some aspect of practically all forms  of human endeavour. The breadth of Unesco's mandate makes the task of  co-ordinating its activities with other organizations all the more difficult, and  yet it is essential that the avoidance of duplication of effort be given the highest  priority. Only thus can the full potential of all the organizations of the United  Nations system be brought to bear upon the problems that beset humankind.
7.7 Mr President, constraints of time make it impossible for me to do justice  to the fourteen major programmes that form the basis of our Organization's activi-  ties. I will therefore limit myself to a short comment on those features that  strike me as particularly important. Education has traditionally been the field  in which Unesco's role has been pre-eminent. It is in education that the seed of  all achievement is to be found; conversely, deficiencies in education lie at the  root of many of the ills that beset our societies. The eradication of illiteracy  has, as the Director-General states in his Introduction to document 2 2  C/5, been  recognized as a priority need by the international community. But figures on the  current rate of illiteracy in the world are not encouraging. The rapid growth of  the world's population, combined with the economic crisis and the higher skills  that modern society demands, will increasingly make a global strategy to combat  illiteracy imperative and fully justify the assigning of nearly half of the re-  sources of Major Programme II, 'Education for all', to this end.
7.8 The democratization of education is an element of this major programme to  which we attach the highest importance. Only when girls, the children Of the poor,  the handicapped, and those belonging to minorities, to mention only the largest  groups, are given the opportunity to develop their full potential will the mandate  of our Constitution to 'give fresh impulse to popular education' have been ac-  complished. Imbalances caused by discriminatory practices or petrified structures  are not only a negation of basic rights; they frustrate the mobilization of intel-  lectual and technical skills that our societies CO badly need.
7.9 Turning now to the sciences, let me say at the outset, Mr President, that I  endorse the major programmes devoted to this sector. Austria has participated ac-  tively in the Man and the Biosphere programme, the International Hydrological  Programme and the International Geological Correlation Programme and intends to do  so in the future. We have also contributed to the training of specialized person-  nel in mineral prospection, in small mines potential and technology as well as in  limnology, and we will continue these efforts to the best of our ability.
7.10 Mr President, never before have peoples' lives been so closely affected by  science and technology and never before have science and technology--due to their  increasing complexity--been more difficult to understand, even by those who have  enjoyed an adequate education according to accepted standards. No wonder that we  are faced with a wave of irrational fear of science and the rejection of technology.  And yet we know that there can be no solution to our problems without science and  technology.
7.11 Environmental factors have underscored as never before the interdep-endence  that exists between natural sciences and the social sciences. The Director-General  is aware of this and has stated in his Introduction to document 2 2  C/5 that 'there  should be more crossing of the demarcation line between the exact and natural
723    sciences and the social and human sciences'. I fully agree with this. The social  sciences must pervade all aspects of Unesco's programme, and I realize that, by not  having a major programme on the social sciences, Unesco has committed itself to a  truly interdisciplinary approach. ïnterdisciplinarity demands a high degree of  fntersectoral co-operation and here there have been difficulties and shortfalls.  By way of example, I quote from document 22 C/ll: 'Ensuring integration of the  social sciences into man and biosphere programme activities continues to represent  the main difficulty because of the sectoral structure of the Organization'. While  commending the honesty of this evaluation, I would point out that it raises serious  questions.
7.12 It is gratifying to note that Major Programme VI will lead to expanded co-  operation with the European Centre for Co-ordination of Research and Documentation  in the Social Sciences in Vienna and that Unesco will, for the first time in its  history, apply itself to the task of preparing regional conferences on the devel-  opment of the social and human sciences and their ability to elucidate major con-  temporary issues.
7.13 Mr President, as we look back over the last triennium, the World Conference  on Cultural Policies held in Mexico City, last year stands out as a landmark in  the history of our Organization. The conception of culture elaborated at this  Conference has, in a remarkably short span of time, found widespread acceptance.  Many of the resolutioncof MONDIACULT have found their way into the Second Medium-  Term Plan and the Programme and Budget for 1984-1985. Some have not. There remain  ideas approved by the Conference that may very well enrich Unesco's programme in  future years.
7.14 Among the many facets of Unesco's activities in the cultural field, I would  like to mention particularly the preservation of the cultural heritage of mankind.  Many sites of priceless cultural worth owe their continuing existence to initiatives  taken by Unesco. Among the current projects, Austria is contributing with grants and  and expertise to the renovation of the Royal Palace in Patan, Nepal. It is not  only natural decay or neglect for lack of means or interest that threaten the cul-  tural heritage of mankind, wars and revolutions have taken a heavy toll, as have  exceptional political situations that prevent safeguarding measures from being taken  taken. The Austrian delegation feels that the Convention for the Protection of  Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict should be reactivated. Unesco can  play a very important role in this context in the interest of our generation and  that of those to corne. I would like, therefore, to express the thanks of the  Austrian Government to the Director-General for having recently convened for this  purpose in Austria a meeting of legal experts on the Convention.
7.15 Mr President, there is no doubt in my mind that one of the primary objectives  in the work of Unesco is to strengthen the intellectual and cultural resources of  developing countries, resources urgently needed to mobilize the enormous human po-  tential that today is so frequently paralysed by hunger, misery and disease. In  this context, it is a sou.rce of great concern to my country and, I trust, to many  others too that whatever resources developing countries can themselves raise to  support their economic and social, their cultural and their scientific progress  are today increasingly under a strain of a new kind. The arms race that no longer  stops at the borders of Europe, on the borders of the industrialized world, Eut is  today being extended to many parts of the developing world. Without wishing to  attrihte blame or to identify responsibilities, there is today the objective fact  that, in a growing number of countries in what we somewhat imprecisely call the  'Third world', many precious resources are diverted by arms purchase, by an exten-  sion of the arms race to the Third World.
7.16 Mr President, I should like to say a word now about my own region of the  world, Europe. The Madrid Meeting of Representatives of the Participating States  of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe has expressed its interest  fn the possibility of convening an intergovernmental conference within the frame-  work of Unesco on the development of contacts, co-operation and joint projects  regarding the protection, preservation and recording of historical heritage and  monuments and the relationship between man, environment and this heritage. The  concluding document of the Madrid meeting also refers to a Cultural Forum that will  take place in October 1985 at the invitation of the Hungarian Government, to which  a representative of Unesco will lje invited to present the Organization's views.  Unesco may thus make a valuable contribution to European security and co-operation.
7.17 Distinguished delegates, the field of communication has, since the last three  General Conferences, assumed increasing importance and Unesco's corresponding ac-  tivities have been given extensive coverage by the world media. Publicity for  Unesco's activities is highly desirable. If, however, such publicity is concentrated  primarily on this one aspect, the result is a distorted picture that does not do jus-  tice to the important work undertaken in the other fields of Unesco's competence.
724    In the view of my delegation, the most important step taken so far by Unesco in the  field of communication was the establishment of the International Programme for the  Development of Communication. Austria actively participates in the Intergovermental  Council of IPDC; we have followed closely the fourth session of the Council in  Tashkent, and we were privileged to host a round table conference on the new world  information and communication order in September of this year. It is not by raising  barriers or restricting the freedom of communicators that we will achieve a free flow  and a wider and better balanced dissemination of information. On the contrary, the  freedom of the producer of messages to produce them, the freedom of the transmitter  of messages to transmit them and the freedom of the receiver of messages to receive  them must, in our view, be the guidelines for information and communication in the  world, an ideal which we have always supported in all international fora.
7.18 Mr President, a number of our agenda items are concerned with human rights  issues. Austria believes that human rightsshouldbe primarily dealt with by those  fora of the United Nations system which have been established exclusively for that  purpose. Unesco, however, has a particular role to play in the field of human rights  by widening and deepening understanding of them through education. My delegation  notes with satisfaction that promising steps have been taken in that direction in the  past and are also included in the draft programme. The commitment to human rights  must be developed on the basis of the personal conviction of the individual, out of  the concern of groups and of society as a whole for their individual members. The  workofthe Austrian delegation in this Conference and elsewhere has been and will be  guided by the conviction of my Government that there can be no peace where human  rights are systematically Violated. If human rights are grossly and massively in-  fringed, international peace is at stake and cannot prevail in the long run.
7.19 Let us also take good note of the message that the young people of the world  are sending us by their unprecedented manifestations in favour of a halt to the arms  race and their explicit yearning for peace. Thank you, Mr President.
(8.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  lations to me.
(8.2) I now call on H.E. Mr Hernán González, Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports and  head of the Costa Rican delegation.  I thank the head of the Austrian delegation for his address and for his congratu-
(9.1) Mr GONZALEZ (Costa Rica) (Translation from the Spanish) :  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen,  I wish to extend to you, Mr President, my warmest congratulations on your election as  President of this General Conference as a token of recognition of your personal merit, of  appreciation for your country's prestige and as a tribute to the Arab people. As a  Christian, I welcome, and add my voice to your appeal for God's blessing on the deliber-  ations of this conference. I extend greetings to our Director-General, reiterating our
728    confidence in his bold sense of vision and his effective action in fulfilling the ideals  and aspirations that we in Unesco share. May I also extend warm, brotherly greetings to  the new Member States which have joined our Organization, and wish their people well.
(9.2) Mr President, some delegations have expressed reservations about certain activities  proposed in the Draft Programme and Budget before us. We respect. the reasons given for  their reservations and believe that they will prove constructive when carrying out the  various programmes. We do, however, consider that the Draft has kept to the lines of  action mapped out for this Organization by its Constitution. We believe that our Director-  General has scrupulously fulfilled the mandate given him by the fourth extraordinary  session of the General Conference in his presentation of the Medium-Term Plan, of which  the Programme and Budget for 1984-1985 is just one stage.
(9.3) We are confident that the Administrative Committee on Co-ordination will be able  to eliminate any overlapping and ensure that Unesco's activities will complement and not  duplicate those of other organizations in the United Nations system.
(9.4) It has been said that the purpose of Major Programme I (Reflection on world prob-  lems and future-oriented studies) is th+t Unesco should become an expression of the 'uni-  versal awareness' of the problems which are of the deepest concern to mankind. In order  to achieve this, the discussion of such serious issues must be kept free from political  and ideological confrontation. This discussion must not be used to give vent to bitter  antagonisms between the developed and developing countries, but on the contrary, should  bring them together, poor and rich alike, in a spirit of brotherhood, to seek the well-  being of peoples in the deepest respect for the fundamental freedoms of all individuals.
(9.5) Time is too short for me to comment on all the major programmes supported by my  Government. We unreservedly support the major programmes in education and culture, and  all those dealing with science, technology, the protection and development of the environ-  ment, and terrestrial and marine resources. We are aware that we are faced with the chal-  lenge of an emerging civilization, which must be imbued with greater humanity with the  application of science and technology accompanied by a keenly felt sense of social justice  and enduring freedom; hence the importance we attach to the social sciences and activities  concerning youth.
(9.6) Costa Rica hosted the first Intergovernmental Conference on Communication Policies  in Latin America and the Caribbean. In the final declaration of that Conference are to be  found the principles and standards which provide the foundation for our support, today,  for the Major Programme on Communication in the Service of Man. Our support is based on  the inalienable right of freedom of information, which should not be restricted either by  powerful economic forces or by states.
(9.7) Our democracy is founded on respect for the dignity of human beings and mutual  understanding of their values - hence our support for the major programmes which promote  such respect, from which women can not and must not be excluded.
(9.8) We endorse all the efforts being made to maintain peace among nations and within  them. We deplore the fact that attempts are being made to give a one-sided political slant  to this aspiration for peace. We believe moreover that while Unesco should promote every  constructive move for peace, other authorities should be left to discuss and try to solve  conflicts among nations. So great is our country's dedication to peace that, as well as  abolishing the army, Costa Rica has proclaimed a state of neutrality, without renouncing  its commitment to democracy and social justice.
(9.9) Mr President, allow me to make some comments on our cultural policy and on its  conceptual framework, practical implementation and scope. The universal right to culture  is born with the human being, with his right to life and to human dignity. Ever since man  reached a state of self-awareness, thousands of years ago, and began to question himself  about his existence on earth, intellectual inquiry has never ceased once it has taken root  in the mind of the individual. It has continueä along different paths in a constant col-  lective process, closely bound up with the convergence of three basic elements - the human,  the cultural and the technical. For us in Costa Rica, in and through the Ministry of  Culture, Youth and Sport, cultural values as the expression of mankind's purpose in life  have retained their original significance: man is the centre and the whole object of  culture, the vital element, the beginning and the end of the development of peoples. Our  purpose is to seek out the human element, to bring out the best in man and his creative  capacity, in the public interest. As José Ortega Gasset so eloquently put it, 'there are  two kinds of culture, culture in the making and culture already made. In our day and age,  we must forgo our confidence in established culture and encourage the emerging culture,  the culture which springs from our most vital needs; life must be imbued with culture and  culture with life'. For culture, which means cultivation, is born out of men, out of  their ability to reflect upon themselves and upon their destiny. No sooner has man had a  moment of respite from the harsh realities of life than he has set about contemplating,  medidating, painting, imagining or praying. That is when he discovers the meaning of what  he has been doing for the rest of the day. It is then - as the mind glides freely in the  wake of a melody, a colour, a poem or a dream - that a person comes face to face with him-  self, with his own true being, and in doing so rediscovers how to communicate with the  reality of others. Every people, every age, has a unique way of being in the world, of  working, of playing, of loving, of weeping. This is its culture and within it man is a  single unit, an entity unto himself. It is not an entity with separate pigeon-holes, one  marked professional life, another private life, another economic and another cultural. No  life is but one, and if culture is not made an essential part of life, it is condemned by  us to be a myth, a pretence, a masquerade of our personality. Every person lives accord-  ing to a culture that is his own and our purpose in seeking out the human element in cul-  ture is to enable each person to preserve his own culture down to its very roots. Culture  is a fundamental dimension of the process of development and helps to consolidate the inde-  pendence, sovereignty and identity of nations. The growth of communities has very often  been viewed in terms of quantity, regardless of the essential qualitative dimension, that  is to say, the satisfaction of man's spiritualand cultural aspirations.
(9.10) It is necessary and urgent, we believe, to give development a human dimension.  Those of us who at any time have the power to make policy decisions, such as in government,  or in the scientific field, in private enterprise or in any other sector of the economic  life of the country, must foster awareness of the meaning, in today's world, of development  and its ultimate object, the human being and the dignity and social responsibility of the  individual. Culture is the ethic by which our lives are governed. Mankind becomes trans-  formed as man's innermost being itself is transformed: such qualities as integrity, good-  ness and the love which springs from an understanding of all things human, the ability to  accept what is difficult, valuing what is sublime, respect for history and knowledge of  the greatness of all epochs become qualities of the soul which give us the right to live  in peace in the daily round of our existence.
(9.11) In every national culture there are elements of grass-roots culture springing from  the broad working masses of the population whose living conditions generate their own cul-  tural values and aspirations, and those of a dominant, 'cultivated' class composed of an  educated intellectual bourgeoisie which has traditionally been the custodian of elitist  culture. The confrontation and interaction between these two fundamental tendencies, tem-  pered by a natural tradition of deeply-entrenched cultural values which have been handed  down over the ages and are closely bom6 up with rural life and nature, produce a nation's  culture, encompassing a series of socially significant issues that are present in the  everyday life of communities. The fact that there are regional cultures, working-class  traditions and rural dwellers in areas deprived of cultural facilities makes it necessary  to develop a truly democratic ideology. It can only gain overt recognition if patterns of  action are organized that hinge on these basic social and democratic values. Pluralism  in cultural development is what enables us to do justice to history's outcasts. Man-  centered culture in Costa Rica is the driving force in the democratization of its basic  cultural policy programme.
(9.12) The rural population forms the backbone ofthe social order in Latin America and in  the course of man's evolution has made up the greater part of mankind. The industrial  society which holds sway over the civilized world has been built up on the ruins of rural  society. Peripheral developing areas such as ours are still predominantly rural. The  ultimate achievements of ehe industrial world, despite its apparent successes, are being  seriously challenged. Its victory is not assured because the exceedingly high price to  be paid is world-wide environmental pollution and the economy of waste which threatens the  vital equilibrium of man on earth. In Costa Rica the rural population is not apathetic or  opposed to modernity, nor is rural life either primitive or short-lived. On the contrary,  it has its own forms of organization, holds out promise for total renewal and hope for the  balanced development of man, and it is there that the people's finest cultural assets are  to be found. To say that a society is traditional or that a group depends on its tra-  ditions and intermediate technology does not explain why these traditions have persisted  until now and why peoples adhere to them. We believe that rural life must continue and  maintain its values because of its role in the making of man, who is edified through his  communion with nature. It is a world where man can maintain the purity of his soul, where  the creative hand of God is revered and assisted. It must subsist because it is man,  created in the very image of Chirst, who feeds us and delivers to us the fruits of the  earth with the sweat of his brow.
(9.13) Today, we are all facing difficult times. The ability to overcome the economic  crisis is to be found in our intelligence and our hearts and only through self-control and  self-discipline will we succeed. The answer to this crucial challenge.lies in culture.  It is the most important product of our minds.
(9.14) Meanwhile, the socialization of traditional customs and the growing democratization  of lifestyles caused basically by the direct influence of the mass media, have led to the  emergence of new hopes, aspirations and patterns of cultural behaviour which had lain  dormant but are now coming to the surface, requiring greater participation by the individ-  ual and his family in the cultural life of communities.
(9.15) Faced with the demand for culture by the younger generations, we are turning to  the people of our country in order to encourage them and give direction to their aspir-  ations and expectations - in every group, in every district, in every village, in every  region - and taking advantage of every opportunity for creative work and research and the  dissemination and preservation of cultural property.
(9.16) Today, the history of respect for human rights in Costa Rica seems legendary.  After the Spanish conquest Costa Rica was a poor, isolated colony quite free from indepen-  dence struggles, so that there was no need for an army or for a military establishment,  and today, though surrounded by social and political tensions, we are a free, democratic  country with no armed forces.
(9.17) Even before the twentieth century our country was exempt from social tension and  our system of free, compulsory public education goes back more than a hundred years, for  it was officially established in 1869. We also have a highly developed system of local  government and a corruption-free, efficient electoral system. Capital punishment was abol-  ished by constitutional amendment 101 years ago and we are proud of our record as the  cradle of the right to political asylum in Latin America.
(9.18) It may therefore be said that we Costa Ricans have reaped the reward of having re-  lieved our political conscience and our budgetary resources of the strain of a military  establishment. As the former President of the Republic Ricardo Jiménez so eloquently put  it at the beginning of this century, 'Education will destroy militarism or militarism will  destroy the Republic'; and this is why barracks were converted into schools. This is the  spirit which guides us as a nation and today Costa Rica is politically and socially the  most stable democracy of Latin Americaandthe Caribbean. It is the only country in which  electoral participation is comparable to that of the European democracies, and the rate of  abstention is the lowest in America. The entire population enjoys social security protec-  tion, covering occupational hazards, sickness, invalidity, old age and death, with special  sickness and maternity benefits for women.
(9.19) Since verbal communication is a basis of Costa Rican society, individual freedom  has been nurtured by a constant dialogue between the government and the people. In the  cultural sphere, this is the principle underlying our policy of bringing the community into  contact with its culture. Regionalization has been carried out through cultural centres  which act as small-scale ministries working actively with the communities in their regions.  They provide encouragement and feedback in regard to all the shared aspirations and tra-  ditions which bind the common man to his land and lead him to reflect on his own future  and the common destiny of his country. With this open dialogue we are seeking to affirm  and defend the universal right to life founded on the inseparable principles of the right  to work and the right to beauty. Every person has the duty and the right to contribute to  the common weal. Every person, if he or she has the talent, can create beauty for the ben-  efit of all. We are constantly striving to ensure that young people are fully integrated  into our society.
(9.20) In Costa Rica, culture and the economy are nut mutually exclusive, for tney are  both part of the same struggle to ensure the full development of man in a context of peace,  justice and freedom. Ideally, the economy should give us the minimum we need to live on  with the dignity of educated people. But, apart from this, it has given rise to a false  scale of values, so that culture has come to be regarded as a pastime. A society which  realizes this is capable of overcoming all obstacles in its path. The essential basis for  the development of the people is culture, and the key to economic progress is its dis-  semination. In addition to political and social democracy, we now have cultural democracy.
(9.21) Ladies and gentlemen, nature has two means of regeneration - night and death.  There can be no dawn or renewal unless each one of us builds for the future because, do  what weamay, life will go on and youth will always represent the eternal rebirth of hope.  Let us return to the earth, to ourselves, for that is where we shall always find the most  profound ideas for the future progress and education of our young people. Progress does  not mean obliterating the past, but on the contrary, preserving the essence of the past  which has had the merit of creating for us a better present - the culture in the making  that we will harvest in the future with our children of today.
(9.22) This enables us to see clearly the element which make up the culture-consciousness  of our society, in the light of the social contradictions which constitute the vital sub-  stance for the development of the specific characteristics of a more equitable and partici-  patory society. The Universe is an integral whole in constant flux: the past, the present  and the future form a present which is infinite. Life pervades the earth and thought  governs life. We are part of this whole, the inhabitants of a planet subject to growing  social pressures. Culture is the consciousness of peoples, the fundamental right of their  destiny. In the final analysis, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues of Unesco, upon culture  depends the survival of mankind. Thank you.
(10.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  for his congratulations.
(10.2) I now call on H.E. Mr Brinkman, Minister for Welfare, Health and Cultural Affairs  and head of the delegation of the Netherlands.  I thank the head of the Costa Rican delegation. I would also like to thank him
11.1 Mr BRINKMAN (Netherlands) :  leadership and to congratulate you on your election. The work that the Organfzation  intends to perform in the years 1984-1985 is before us in document 22 C/5 and a ñost  of other documents. I wish to compliment the Director-General and his staff on all  their efforts to translate the guidelines of the Second Medium-Term Plan on whfch we  agreed last year into a coherent set of programme activities, We have noted with  satisfaction that many suggestions we made at the fourth extraordinary session of  the General Conference have been taken into account.
11.2 I: wish to welcome the new members o$ Unesco; Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  and Fiji, and 1 am confident that their contribution to our collective efforts will  further enrich the Organization. I am also deeply satisfied by the decision by the  Conference to admit the Netherlands Antillesas an Associate Member. The Antilles  have for many years participated actively in our delegation to the General Con-  ference and other Unesco meetings. I am happy to see that their desire to parti-  cipate more directly in Unesco's activities, particularly in the regional frame-  work, has been recognized by the Conference. Allow me to extend my congratulations  to their delegation, with which we hope to maintain close and productive contacts.
11.3 I stand before you as the Dutch Minister of Culture, as a representative of  our citizens and of the Netherlands Government. I will beheld reponsible both by  my Government and by non-governmental organizations. I feel myself strongly linked  to them all and I find myself in deep agreement with the intellectual and moral  values that gave birth, 38 years ago, to Unesco.  Mr President, it is a great pleasure to address this meeting under your able
11.4 The Netherlands have a long tradition of participating in international organ-  izations, not only because individual countries can never be self-contained but also  because we profoundly believe in international co-operation as a means to better  problem-solving, to creating understanding between nations and ultimately to peace.  The Netherlands appreciates and values Unesco first and foremost as a forum for con-  tinuous international dialogue on issues in its fields of competence. We wish to  state our view clearly that the major world problems today are war and peace, in-  equality and poverty and the depletion of the world's natural resources. We wish to  stress that education, the sciences, culture and communication can contribute to  reaching positive solutionsto these major world problems. It is for that reason  that we have been an active supporter of and contributor to Unesco. For the same  reason, we will raise our voice when we consider that Unesco is exceeding its fields  of competence.
11.5 Mr President, we are living in the 1980s. Our citizens have developed a  deep awareness of their human rights and they are,extremely sensitive to any viol-  ation of these rights. We shall therefore always be on guard to protect fundamental  human rights, in particular individual human rights. We will oppose all efforts to  weaken them, or to change their internationally accepted definitions. Our citizens  regard participation in public affairs, and acknowledgement of their human dignity  and potential, as no more than natural. At the same time they see the necessity for  co-operation, dialogue and making sacrifices for the benefit of the less privileged  and of the poor. They have also learned to live with large, complex organizations  and anonymous powers, but they are keenly aware of the sense of justice of these  organizations and powers. It should therefore come as no surprise that we will op-  pose any attempt to curtail their constitutional freedom of speech and judgement.  The care and attention of one individual for another give society its true human  quality. I stress in this respect the responsibility of each individual also to  respect the obligations of government. Action in this spirit is not confined to  national boundaries. It is a global challenge.
11.6 Mr President, let me turn now to the major programmes. In spite of some  inconsistencies, overlapping and weaknesses, on which our delegation will offer  comments in the various Commissions, they are generally acceptable. As to the main  lines of work, I cannot but repeat what we have said earlier and what other dis-  tinguished delegates have already mentioned. We must avoid spreading our resources  too thinly over too many small projects and avoid undertaking studies that are not  quite necessary or which duplicate others. We must link the evaluation of earlier  activities more directly to proposals for new action. We must keep an eye on in-  ternal efficiency. In other words, Mr President, we again make a plea for the con-  centration of Unesco's activities.
11.7 What still constitutes the largest component of Unesco's programme and budget  budget--the major programmes on education--are very impressive indeed. Unesco may  rightly be complimented on its store of experience and the results achieved. The  battle against illiteracy and the efforts to implement the concept of lifelong edu-  cation must and do have high priority. 'Education for all' is another point of  concern. There are deprived groups in our society as well as migrant workers and  their families, children of low income groups, semi-literates and others. More-  over, girls and women still have unequal opportunities. To provide educational  facilities for all these groups calls for special methods that transcend the classi-  cal framework of education by setting the action in a broader social and cultural  context. Allow me, Mr President, by way of example, to mention the Educational  Priority Bill which my colleague, the Minister of Education and Sciences and myself  intend to submit to Parliament. We intend to adopt a coherent approach so that these  groups will not only receive proper educational opportunities but also greater encour-  agement and stimulation to participate fully in society and its various institutions.  This is a concrete example of our respect for the principle of care and attention for  others which I mentioned earlier.
11.8 As the Netherlands have become a multicultural and multi-ethnic society over  the years, we feel the need to provide multicultural education for all in an attempt  to eradicate all forms of prejudice and intolerance, I want to stress that Dutch  researchers, policy makers and politicians have learned a great deal from Unesco  and from international exchanges in general. My final word here on education con-  cerns the new information technologies in education, an issue which has only found  a modest place in Unesco's Programme so far. Some educators regard these develop-  ments with anxiety and fear, but we must keep our eye on the realities of today and  the possibilities of tomorrow. Access to huge reservoirs of information can be fa-  cilitated and deficiencies and thresholds in the educational infrastructure can be  overcome. We have to train and partly re-educate our teachers in these new tech-  nologies, so that they can make--from an educational point of view--a well integrated  design. An active approach such as this to these new technologies keeps the feared  and real negative aspects under control.
11.9 One of the requirements for self-reliance and well-beinq is and will remain, 13  in our opinion, a free flow of communication arid a wider and better balanced dissemi-  nation of information. The aim of Netherlands policy in this respect is to promote  culture actively by providing access to our own--in the framework of furthering mutual  understanding among the world's cultures. We were happy to learn from the fourth  session of the IPDC Council that this programme is getting well under way towards its  main purpose, which is to expand the human and technical communication infrastructure.  We were again able to announce a financial contribution to the programme, as we did in  the very beginning, three years ago. IPDC, however, cannot and should not be the only  financial source for the development of communication. It is gratifying, therefore,  to see important flows of money in bilateral co-operation in this field. On the other  hand, the undeniable importance of communication for overall development should also  be reflected in the proportion that governments receiving finance from multilateral  sources like UNDP devote to the communication sector. Practical action is in our  opinion more important than yet another normative instrument. Because of the diver-  gent views and constitutional principles in Member States, we consider it highly im-  probable that we could reach agreement on a concept for a new world information and  communication order. Let us be mindful of the enormous difficulties we had to over-  come in drafting the Mass Media Declaration. No viable instruments can, therefore,  be expected in this situation.
11.10 One of the characteristics of the past decades is the co-ordinated develop-  ment effort. In principle, we have been very much in agreement with the strong pos-  ition Unesco has taken in its Second Medium-Term Plan with regard to the so-called  'cultural dimension of development'. It is quite obvious that development implies  more than economic growth and technological progress. We urgently need other per-  spectives that are closely related to Unesco's competence in the areas of culture  and science. Unesco therefore has a very specific role to play in the international  discussion. The World Conference on Cultural Policies held in Mexico City in 1982  was an important event, and we find its outcome adequately reflected in the present  programme. We also regard the emphasis given to cultural identity interesting. We  expect that Unesco will take care to ensure that the cultural environment is not to  be negatively affected by technical development projects.
11.11 We have, however, some reservations with respect to Major Programmes VI11  and XI because they fail to make the necessary choices. Making such choices re-  quires boldness. To put it more clearly, Mr President, in my view these Major Pro-  grammes suffer from following too closely the conceptual lines of a notion of devel-  opment that is becoming increasingly out of date. The old ideas and ideals of pro-  gress and evolution cannot be our only guidelines any longer. How do we conceive  of an understanding of the tension between self-identity andinterdependence, between  uniformity and diversity, between convergence and divergence? Do we understand the  role of religion, philosophy, ethical and moral standards and all the other norms  and values that express the essential elements of human dignity, well-being and des-  tination? And this, moreover, in global perspective? In this respect, document
22 C/5 offers too little that enlightens. I urge the Director-General to give that  substance to the proposed programme activities which will help us all to build up a  new conceptual framework for what we still call 'development' today. May I take  this opportunity to announce that our National Commission for Unesco, in close col-  laboration with the Secretariat and with experts from other continents, hopes to  organize two seminars on the cultural dimension of development in 1984 and 1985 as  a contribution to this issue.
11.12 Pragmatism is what we have repeatedly stressed in this forum, Good examples  are the major programmes dealing with the environment and with the other inter-  governmental programmes of scientific co-operation. These programmes offer, as usual,  well organized and balanced activities. I wish, however, to draw the attention of the  Director-General to one issue which we find relatively underestimated given its ex-  treme importance for the survival of mankind, namely the exploitation of the natural  environment. Unesco must not fail to play its role in this respect and in time, SO  that we can secure a world fit to live in for future generations.
11.13 Mr President, I wish to make a concluding remark on the programme activities.  One of the most fundamental characteristics of mankind is that the human being has a  biography. Men and women grow and develop, and they experience the world differently  in the different phases of life. Each age also has its own specific problems, its  sense of solidarity and meaning. In the past we have often wondered exactly for  whom Unesco's activities were intended: for human beings of some modal or average age  age, or persons without any age? We have often urged the Director-General to pay  more attention to the specific problems of particular age groups, especially the  young and the old. It goes without saying that we were pleasantly surprised by  document 22 C/4 which was waiting for us here in Paris. We find in this document  a broad and comprehensive approach for which we thank the Director-General. It  nearly satisfies all the wishes which we intended to bring forward to the Conference.  The youth representative in our delegation will comment on particular details at  the appropriate moment and propose further steps in the form of a draft resolution.
11.14 Mr President, with regard to the budget, I think we must be realists, In a  world where all governments have to cut down on their budgetsit is not acceptable  that an international organization can expand its budget at a rate of over 6 per  cent. No matter how lofty the pursuits of Unesco may be, it should have taken the  world economic recession into account as other specialized agencies in the United  Nations family have already done. I believe that the programmeas presented can be  put into effect without loss of essential elements with a budget based on zero growth  in real terms. Ongoing evaluation should provide guidelines for a reformulation of  priorities. Let us not forget the role of non-financial resources in carrying out  the programme. Mr President, our stand remains that we cannot approve a budget  exceeding zero growth in real terms.
11.15 My Government is aware of the huge task that weighs on the shoulders of the  Director-General and his Secretariat. They have to comply with the so often diver-  ging needs and traditions of the ever increasing number of Unesco Member States.  Mr President, I have been frank about my Government's stand in this matter, and I  do not wish to hedge about it. I have stated clearly what the Netherlands is pre-  pared to contribute to Unesco's programme and budget and I hope to be able to en-  gage in a constructive dialogue about our active participation in its activities.  Thank you very much, Mr President.
(12.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  for his congratulations.
(12.2) I now call on the distinguished Mr Domitrou Aninoiu, Romanian Ambassador Extraordi-  nary and Plenipotentiary to France and head of the Romanian delegation.  I thank the head of the delegation of the Netherlands for hi's address as well as
13.1 M. ANINOIU (Roumanie) :  il m'est fort agréable de commencer mon exposé en ajoutant, Monsieur le Président,  les félicitations de la délégation roumaine à celles qui vous ont déjà été adres-  sées pour votre élection à la présidence de notre Conférence. Je tiens également  à féliciter M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, directeur général de l'Unesco, pour les orien-  tations sages et compétentes qu'il imprime aux activités de l'organisation dans ce  monde troublé qui est le nôtre et pour le contenu du Projet de programme et de bud-  get soumis à notre réflexion et approbation.
13.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, la présente session de la Conférence générale de  l'Unesco se déroule dans le contexte d'une aggravation particulière de la situation  mondiale et de menaces accrues contre la paix et l'indépendance des peuples, contre  la civilisation en général. Tous les peuples sont vivement préoccupés par le rythme  aberrant de la course aux armements, notamment nucléaires. La course aux armements - gaspillage absurde de ressources matérielles et humaines - a des conséquences  profondément néfastes sur le développement de l'économie, de la science et de la  culture, sur le climat international ; elle a atteint un tel niveau que l'existence  même de l'humanité, de la vie sur notre planète, est mise en péril. La Roumanie,  son président, Nicolae Ceaucescu, considèrent que la sauvegarde de la paix, l'arrêt  de la course aux armements, le passage au désarmement, en tout premier lieu au  désarmement nucléaire, constituent Le problème fondamental de notre époque. "Aucune  raison - déclarait récemment notre Président - ne peut justifier la politique d'ar-  mement, l'adoption de nouveaux programmes de déploiement des armes nucléaires. I1  faut tout mettre en oeuvre pour arrêter l'implantation des missiles à portée inter-  médiaire, pour le retrait et la destruction des missiles en place."
13.3 Les peuples du monde sont aussi profondément préoccupés par la multipli-  cation et l'aggravation des situations conflictuelles et des foyers de tension - qui ne cesseni. d'apparaître sous 1i.m yeux - par l'écart grandissant entre pays  riches et pauvres, par les manifestations de la politique de force et de menace  de l'emploi de la force, de consolidation et de repartage des zones d'influence,  d'ingérence brutale dans les affaires d'autrui portant atteinte aux libertés des  peuples, ainsi que par l'accentuation de la crise économique mondiale dont les ré-  percussions affectent, en premier lieu, les pays en développement.
13.4 Dans ces circonstances, la Roumanie estime qu'aujourd'hui plus que jamais  tous les Etats et tous les peuples doivent unir leurs efforts, y compris au sein  de l'Unesco en usant de.ses moyens spécifiques, pour arrêter l'évolution néfaste  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs,
734    vers la tension, pour relancer la politique de raison et de détente et pour ré-  soudre dans l'intérêt des peuples les problèmes aussi graves que complexes aux-  quels l'humanité se trouve confrontée. C'est pourquoi il s'impose qu'une orga-  nisation telle que l'Unesco, ayant compétence dans les domaines clés du développe-  ment et de l'entente entre tous les peuples, agisse vigoureusement en faveur du  règlement des problèmes brûlants de notre époque - la paix, le désarmement, l'éta-  blissement d'un nouvel ordre économique mondial, la défense du droit suprême des  peuples et de l'homme à la vie et au travail, à la paix, le droit suprême à une  existence libre et digne.
13.5 Dans ces moments cruciaux pour l'humanité, il est plus nécessaire que  jamais que l'Unesco contribue plus activement à mobiliser l'opinion mondiale, les  hommes de science et de culture - quelles que soient leurs convictions politiques  et philosophiques - en faveur du désarmement, de l'amorce du désarmement, avant  qu'il ne soit trop tard, et de l'affectation des fonds économisés au developpement,  à l'enseignement, à la science, à la culture, à l'information, au règlement des  graves problèmes économiques et sociaux contemporains auxquels sont confrontés en  particulier les pays en développement. A nos yeux, les hommes de science et les  chercheurs ont en tout premier lieu la responsabilité, le devoir d'agir, de concert  avec leurs peuples, pour mettre fin à la politique d'armement, de faire en sorte  qu'on renonce à la production des armes de destruction massive - nucléaires, chi-  miques, bactériologiques et autres - pour que les acquis du génie humain servent  toujours et partout dans le monde uniquement le progrès et la civilisation, le  bien-être des peuples.
13.6 A cet effet, notre délégation soumet à l'attention de la Conférence géné-  rale une proposition tendant à examiner la possibilité de créer sous les auspices  de l'Unesco un forum international des hommes de science qui soit un cadre où puisse  s'exprimer la volonté des savants, des chercheurs et des ingénieurs d'agir en sorte  que les acquis de la science et de la technique contemporaine soient mis exclusive-  ment au service de la vie, du développement, de la paix, du progrès de tous les  peuples, de l'épanouissement de l'homme. Les hommes de science de Roumanie, réunis  sous l'égide du Comité national "Les hommes de sciences et la paix", sont prêts à  apporter leur soutien à un pareil forum.
13.7 La délégation roumaine apprécie les activités de coopération européenne  déployées par l'Unesco au cours des dernières années, estimant que le développement  et la diversification des programmes de coopération au niveau européen contenus  dans le Projet de programme sont susceptibles d'accroître la contribution de l'Orga-  nisation à l'application, dans ses domaines de compétence, des dispositions de l'Acte  final de la Conférence d'Helsinki et du document final de la Réunion de Madrid, réu-  nion dont la conclusion positive a été saluée par la Roumanie ; on a ainsi montré  encore une fois que même dans des conditions internationales difficiles, la possi-  bilité de résoudre les problèmes, si complexes et si compliqués soient-ils, par la  voie des négociations existe, lorsqu'on fait preuve de volonté politique, d'entente  réciproque et de coopération.
13.8 C'agissant des questions européennes, il va sans dire que la Roumanie  attache une grande importance à la diversification de la coopération au niveausms-  régional balkanique en matière de séismologie, d'environnement, d'innovation éduca-  tive, d'études sur la civilisation et la culture sud-est européennes, ainsi que  d'autres domaines, dans l'intérêt de la transformation des Balkans en une zone de  paix et de bon voisinage, exempte d'armes nucléaires, en une zone d'amitié et de  coopération.
13.9 Monsieur le Président, la disparition du sous-développement, de la division  du monde en pays riches et pauvres, l'élimination des rapports économiques inéqui-  tables et injustes entre Etats, ainsi que des graves décalages qui existent entre  les pays en ce qui concerne la science, la technologie et l'information, constituent  sans doute une des missions majeures proposées au monde contemporain. La délégation  roumaine est d'avis que l'Unesco devrait davantage rechercher des moyens concrets  d'appuyer les efforts que déploient individuellement les pays, notamment ceux en  développement, en matière de formation et d'utilisation des cadres nationaux, de  renforcement de leurs capacités endogènes dans les domaines de la science, de l'en-  seignement et de l'information, de la mise en valeur des ressources dont ils dis-  posent. Une attention accrue devrait être égalenent accordée aux moyens favorisant  l'accès de ces pays aux acquis de la science et de la technique, en vue de diminuer  les décalages économiques et technologiques existants. Nous considérons que la si-  tdation dans le monde d'aujourd'hui exige que s'amorcent un dialogue fructueux et  une coopération réelle entre les pays développés et ceux en développement, et que  soient mises en oeuvre des conceptions et des relations nouvelles d'égalité entre  tous les Etats, pour mettre un terme aux iniquités du passé et assurer un dévelop-  pement équilibré et stable de l'économie internationale.
13.10 Dans cette perspective, ia Roumanie estime que l'Unesco est appelée à agir  par ses programmes et ses activités afin de contribuer activement à la réalisation
735    des impératifs du développement libre et indépendant de tous les peuples, à l'éli-  mination du colonialisme, du néocolonialisme, du racisme et de la politique d'apar-  theid, en un mot de toute forme de domination. Notre délégation exprime la solida-  rité militante de la Roumanie avec la lutte menée par le peuple namibien pour con-  quérir sans délai son indépendance sur la base des résolutions de l'ONU, ainsi  qii'avec la lutte pour l'abolition de la politique d'apartheid et de discrimination  raciale en Afrique du Sud.
13.11 Monsieur le Président, la délégation roumaine apprécie le Projet de pro-  grame et en particulier les innovations concernant sa conception, sa structure et  son contenu. Ce qu'il faut signaler dans le document, c'est une définition plus  claire et réaliste des objectifs, des orientations et des voies d'action de l'Unesco,  un choix judicieux des priorités, une plus ferme orientation des programmes vers la  solution des grands problèmes du monde, le souci constant d'une approche interdisci-  plinaire, intersectorielle et prospective. Tout cela confère au Projet de programme  un caractère unitaire, propre à assurer une efficacité accrue à l'action de l'Unesco  aux niveaux national, régional et mondial.
13.12 Les programmes concernant l'éducation attestent que l'Unesco continue d'at-  tacher une attention prioritaire à l'accroissement du rôle de l'enseignement en  tant que facteur majeur du développement économique et social, de la coopération  et de l'entente internationales. La réalisation du droit à l'éducation, l'action  visant à éliminer le fléau de l'analphabétisme, qui touche plus de 800 millions de  nos frères partout dans le monde, à améliorer les conditions de formation des  cadres des pays en développement, à renforcer la liaison entre l'enseignement, le  travail productif et la recherche, à harmoniser la relation entre l'éducation sco-  laire et l'éducation extrascolaire, et surtout l'attention attachée à l'enseigne-  ment technique et professionnel aussi bien qu'à l'enseignement supérieur, repré-  sentent autant d'orientations qui ont entièrement notre approbation. Nous voudrions  marquer dans ce contexte notre intérêt pour le Centre européen de l'Unesco pour  l'enseignement supérieur (CEPES) de Bucarest, dont l'activité jouit de l'appui de  la Roumanie et sert les intérets de tous les pays européens et le renforcement de  la coopération régionale sur notre continent.
13.13 En ce qui concerne les programmes relatifs à la science, à la technologie  et à l'information, nous attachons une attention particulière aux priorités et aux  innovations concernant les domaines clés des sciences exactes, naturelles et so-  ciales, ainsi qu'à la volonté d'accroître le rôle des sciences dans la recherche  de solutions aux problèmes qui se posent au plan mondial dans les domaines de  l'énergie, des ressources naturelles et de l'environnement. Les neuf projets ma-  jeurs comme la poursuite des programmes intergouvernementaux reflètent à la fois  le souci de renouvellement et celui de la continuité de l'expérience acquise et  des efforts des pays en développement en vue d'accroître l'efficacité de l'appli-  cation des découvertes de la science et de la techniqueauservicedudéveloppement.
13.14 Les programmes consacrés à la culture et à la communication permettent de  renforcer les liens étroits qui existent entre la culture, la communication et  l'action éducative, entre le développement scientifique et technique et le déve-  loppement culturel et social, ainsi que le respect de l'identité culturelle des  peuples, la protection et la mise en valeur de leur patrimoine culturel.
13.15 Nous sommes entièrement d'accord avec les actions visant l'établissement  d'un nouvel ordre international en matière d'information et de communication, et  nous estimons que l'Unesco doit continuer à aider davantage les pays en dévelop-  pement à créer et à consolider des infrastructures appropriées et à former des  cadres nationaux dans le secteur de la communication. Nous estimons également que  l'Unesco doit s'efforcer de faire en sorte que les moyens modernes de communica-  tion jouent un rôle accru dans la promotion du respect réciproque des pecples et  de l'entente internationale, des idéaux de paix et de coopération entre tous les  peuples.
13.16 Mesdames et Messieurs, la problématique de la jeunesse occupe une place  de premier plan dans les préoccupations de tous les pays du monde, de l'ONU et  d'autres organisations, de l'opinion internationale. L'Année internationale de la  jeunesse, qui doit se dérouler en 1985 avec pour thème "Participation, développe-  ment, paix", constituera une date de référence dans la vie internationale, un  facteur d'intensification des activités des Etats et des organisations internatio-  nales dans le domaine de la jeunesse. Les cinq réunions régionales et la Table  ronde prévues dans le cadre de l'Unesco, ainsi que les cinq réunions régionales  consacrées à la jeunesse sous l'égide des Nations Unies, dont deux réunions euro-  péennes qui ont eu lieu en Roumanie, doivent ëtre considérées comme une nouvelle  phase de la préparation et de la célébration de cette Année internationale de la  jeunesse. La délégation roumaine estime qu'il incombe à la Conférence générale  d'adopter à cette session, sur la base des orientations formulées par le Directeur  général, des décisions propres à renforcer la participation de l'Unesco à l'Année  internationale de la jeunesse, par un vaste programme d'actions spécifiques et
736    adéquates. Notre délégation soutient la proposition tendant à ce que l'Unesco or- 13  ganise en 1985 un congrès mondial de la jeunesse, congrès qui doit constituer une  manifestation d'envergure réunissant les représentants de la jeune génération dans  le monde entier, ainsi que des personnalités éminentes de la science et de la cul-  ture mondiales ; ce congrès sera appelé à adopter des programmes d'action er: vue  d'affirmer plus vigoureusement le rôle de la jeunesse dans lavie sociale et poli-  tique et de renforcer sa contribut.ion à la solution des problèmes majeurs de notre  époque. Nous sommes convaincus que la Conférence souhaitera adopter une résolution  sur ce thème et à cette fin la délégation roumaine a soumis un texte à la plénière.
13.17 Monsieur le Président, pour mettre er; oeuvre les activités prévues pour  les années à venir, l'Unesco doit bénéficier de moyens matériels et financiers  appropriés. Soulignant la nécessité d'utiliser d'une manière aussi rationnelle que  possible, dans un esprit de gestion rigoureuse, les ressources financières de l'Or-  ganisation, ma délégation soutient les propositions du Directeur général concernant  le Prclqramme et le budget pour l'exercice 1984-1985 et votera en leur faveur.
13.18 Je voudrais vous assurer, Monsieur le Président, Monsi-eur le Directeur  général, que ia Roumanie mènera une action énergique pour que soient mis en oeuvre  les programmes qui seront adoptés par la Conférence générale et pour que se ren-  force sans cesse le rôle de l'Unesco dans la promotion des idéaux de la paix, du  désarmement, de l'entente et de la coopération entre toutes les nations du monde.  Je vous remercie de votre attention.
(14.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  as for his congratulations.
(14.2) I now call on Mr Chedly Ayari, Presidentofthe Arab Bank for Economic Development  in Africa.  I thank the distinguished head of the Romanian delegation for his address as well
15.1 M. AYARI (Banque arabe pour le développement économique en Afrique) :  Monsieur le Président, on pourrait définir le développement qui est à la  source des richesses de l'humanité comme un processus de création de biens maté-  riels et de biens non matériels dont l'homme est à la fois l'agent et la finalité.  Un homme dont le génie, la force physique, la souffrance, la volonté de vivre font  le développement, un homme qui cherche à travers le développement à se réaliser,  à s'épanouir, tout en défiant et dominant les contraintes physiques et matérielles.
15.2 La stratégie du développement fait intervenir trois facteurs : les objec-  tifs, le temps et les moyens. Les objectifs, c'est l'homme qui les choisit, les  organise, les classe, les change et les modifie. Le temps, c'est l'homme égale-  ment qui le définit, l'allonge et l'accélère. Quant aux moyens matériels du déve-  loppement, c'est l'homme encore qui les crée.
15.3 Si donc, Monsieur le Président, l'homme est à la fcis le but et le moyen  du développement, comment est-il possible de contester l'importance primordiale  qu'il convient d'accorder à la formation des ressources humaines ? Comment peut-  on ne pas chercher à accroître la capacité de l'homme à participer au développe-  ment, à investir dans ses ressources propres et dans l'ensemble des ressources  humaines qui l'intéressent ? Comment, dans ces conditions, l'investissement dans  les ressources humaines peut-il être matière à contestation, à évaluation diffé-  rente, à problèmes, à planification plus ou moins importante ? Comme se peut-il  que l'Unesco, le PNUD, autre institution internationale ayant compétence en ma-  tière de ressources humaines, éprouvent des difficultés à réunir les importants  financements nécessaires à cette fin ?
15.4 Monsieur le Président, puisque nous sommes ici dans une institution de dé-  veloppement, je pense qu'il est important que nous soyons d'accord sur les diffé-  rentes catégories ou ensembles de ressources humaines telles qu'elles solit consi-  dérées aujourd'hui au niveau des sources de financement. Je retiendrais, pour ma  part, deux grandes catégories de ressources humaines, celles qui sont liées au  développement des masses et celles que l'on peut dire liées à la. formation des  "élites". L'objectif en matière de ressources humaines liées au développement des  masses, c'est d'abord l'éducation de base, c'est-à-dire la formation technique  élémentaire, la lutte contre l'analphabétisme, c'est la scolarisation primaire,  l'apprentissage des techniques fondamentales de calcul commercial de base, l'ap-  prentissage des rudiments de la gestion par l'agriculteur, l'artisan, le petit
737    industriel ... Dans un deuxième groupe d'objectifs, entrent les secteurs de la  communication sociale, de la participation des masses à lapromotionde leur propre  développement, à savoir les médias, les programmes d'animation communautaire, les  programmes d'animation au niveau du village ou du sous-village, les programmes de  promotion de la femme. Un troisième type d'investissement dans les ressources hu-  maines intéresse la santé, le logement, l'habitat, la nutrition, l'environnement,  secteurs indissociables de l'homme. Enfin viennent des investissements d'un carac-  tère différent ; ce sont ceux qui créent des emplois et qui se répercutent néces-  sairement sur les ressources humaines, et en tout dernier lieu, les investissements  consacrés à la culture et aux loisirs.
15.5 La deuxième catégorie d'investissements dans les ressources humaines, je  l'ai dit, Monsieur le Président, est liée à la formation des "élites", c'est-à-  dire des cadres de tous niveaux, et en particulier de niveau supérieur, et des per-  sonnels de recherche, de conception et d'innovation.
15.6 A ce propos, je voudrais vous décrire une expérience en matière de res-  sources humaines, celle qui est vécue par les pays du Sahel ouest-africain - Cap-  Vert, Gambie, Haute-Volta, Mauritanie, Niger, Sénégal et Mali - dont la population  totale s'élèveà trente millions d'habitants. Ces pays, dont le niveau de vie est  assez faible et les revenus limités, ont fait l'objet, dans le cadre de la straté-  gie du Comité inter-Etats de lutte contre la sécheresse dans le Sahel (CILSS), d'un  programme relatif aux ressources humaines.
15.7 A l'issue d'une expérience de cinq années, on constate une orientation  massive du programme vers la santé et une orientation assez faible vers la parti-  cipation et la communication ; par ailleurs, très peu de projets d'éducation ou de  formation ont été intégrés dans les projets de développement ; les programmes pour  l'emploi sont absents, de même que la formation technique, la formation des élites  et la formation relative à l'environnement. Si l'on examine les actions dans le  détail, on voit effectivement que ce sont les secteurs les moins prioritaires qui  ont été avantagés par rapport à ceux qui devraient l'être davantage.
15.8 Tirant les leçons de cette expérience des pzys du Sahel, qui n'est qu'une  expérience parmi tant d'autres, je pense qu'on pourrait aboutir à un certain nombre  de propositions pour l'avenir,qui pourraient à la fois guider les planificateurs  nationaux des pays en développement dans leur action visant à promouvoir les res-  sources humaines et surtout inciter les institutions interriationales,dont la  mienne,à donner un peu plus d'importance à ce problème des ressources humaines.
15.9 Monsieur le Président, il faut au niveau national réhabiliter la notion  d'investissement dans les ressources humaines ; dans chaque pays en développement,  les compétences en matière de ressources humaines sont éparpillées entre plusieurs  ministères, entre plusieurs structures gouvernementales, entre plusieurs services.  Je crois qu'il serait intéressant de réfléchir à la création de comités nationaux  des ressources humaines au niveau de chaque nation, comités nationauxquipourraient,  dans une première étape, être des organes subsidiaires des commissions nationales  pour l'Unesco et qui pourraient faire la si-nthèse de l'ensemble desprogrammesd'in-  vestissement dans les ressources humaines dispersés entre les divers ministères.
15.10 La deuxième proposition concerne l'allocation des ressources au niveau na-  tional. On peut facilement imaginer que les planificateurs nationaux et interna-  tionaux allouent un minimum de ressources et de moyens de financement aux pro-  grammes d'investissement dans les ressources humaines. On peut imaginer dans chaque  plan un fonds spécial pour les ressources humaines qui pourrait être soit budgétisé - c'est-à-dire financé par les fonds budgétaires ordinaires - soit débudgétisé - c'est-à-dire financé par exemple au moyen de recettes parafiscales. C'est là une  mesure qui permettrait d'individualiser les programmes de ressources humaines au  niveau national et, par là, de leur conférer une certaine priorité.
15.11 Un troisième volet de l'action au niveau national est la coordination aux  niveaux régional et sous-régional. Je pense, et le cas du CILSS l'a montré brillam-  ment, qu'une coopération sous-régionale limitée à deux ou trois ou quatre pays sur  le plan des ressources humaines pourrait et devrait être encouragée, ce qui per-  mettrait une utilisation optimale des ressources allouées.
15.12 J'en arrive enfin aux structures internationales ; je pense effectivement  qii'à l'heure actuelle, les institutions internationales de financement ne sont  guère sensibles aux problèmes de ressources humaines. Cela est peut.-être du à ce  qu'elles perçoivent mal la priorité des projets de ressources humaines, mais aussi  au fait qu'elles sont appelées à financer un nombre incroyable de projets de déve-  loppement agricole et industriel ; enfin, la notion de rentabilité économique et  financière n'est peut-être pas toujours très facile à appliquer aux projets de  développement relatifs aux ressources humaines.
15.13 Je voudrais aussi dire ici qu'il faut que les institutions de financement  du développement élargissent la notion de ressources humaines non seulement à l'édu-  cation de base, non seulement à la participation des masses, mais aussi à tous les  aspects et à toutes les composantes des ressources humaines, y compris ce que j'ai  appelé la formation des élites, la formation de cadres, la formation de chercheurs  et d'innovateurs. I1 faut ensuite que les institutions internationales de finance-  ment acceptent d'allouer un pourcentage annuel de leurs moyens aux ressources hu-  maines. I1 faudrait aussi que dans chaque projet de développement intéressant l'in-  dustrie, l'agriculture ou les services, il soit possible de déterminer un aspect  "ressources humaines" pratique qui serait financé dans le cadre du projet global.  Je suppose que lorsqu'une institution finance un projet de développement rural d'un  montant de 20, 30, 40 ou 50 millions de dollars, il n'est pas difficile de définir  dans ce projet un élément de formation qui coûterait 1 % ou 2 % du projet global,  ce qui constituerait à mon avis une bonne opération.
15.14 Enfin, je voudrais proposer qu'à l'instar des tables rondes organisées sur  les projets de développement industriel ou agricole, on envisage des tables rondes  ayant pour thème principal les ressources humaines. Des tables rondes pourraient  ainsi être organisées sous les auspices de l'Unesco pour traiter des ressources  humaines au niveau de telle ou telle sous-région d'Afrique, d'Asie ou d'Amérique  latine.
15.15 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais dire que si les banques arabes, à l'ex-  ception de quelques-unes, n'ont pas jusqu'ici exercé une action importante dans le  domaine des ressources humaines, si elles n'ont financé qu'un petit nombre de pro-  jets concernant les ressources humaines, cela est dû essentiellement ailx raisons  suivantes : en premier lieu, ces banques sont assaillies de demandes portant sur  des projets de développement industriel, agricole et autres ; en second lieu, il  y a très peu de demandes portant sur des projets relatifs aux ressources humaines,  et je crois qu'à cet égard, l'Unesco pourrait jouer un rôle important en aidant à  préparer de tels projets ; enfin, les banques arabes ne sont pas encore sensibili-  sées à la nécessité d'intégrer l'aspect ressources humaines aux projets qu'elles  financent. Je voudrais simplement dire en conclusion que,dans le cadre de ces pro-  positions, les institutions arabes de financement du développement seraient dési-  reuses de réfléchir avec l'Unesco à ces différentes possibilités. Je vous remercie.
(16.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Development in Africa. I would also like to thank him for congratulating me.
(16.2) I call upon H.E. Mr Osman Sid Ahmed Ismail, Minister of Education and Guidance  and head of the Sudanese delegation.  On your behalf, I thank the distinguished Chairman of the Arab Bank for Economic
(17.1) Mr ISMAIL (Sudan) (Translation from the Arabic):  tinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, Peace and God's mercy and blessings be upon  you. My warmest greetings to you all. Mr President, it gives me real pleasure to convey  to you, on behalf of my country, on my own behalf and on behalf of my delegation, our  warmest congratulations and best wishes on the occasion of your unanimous and auspicious  election as President of this Conference, to stand beside the Director-General, under  these critical circumstances, to implement the great programmes that has been put before  us. With your knowledge, experience and wisdom, your intellectual and cultural background  and your glorious heritage, the heritage of the entire Fertile Crescent and of all the  revealed religions, whose whole essence is the dignity of human existence, all these com-  bined make you worthy, Mr President, of the place you have assumed. Perhaps the unanimity  of your election heralds further unanimity with regard to the programme of this session,  not only as regards opinion but also as regards determination and the will to implement  all aspects of this programme, large and small, trivial and significant, with truth and  sincerity.
(17.2) We would also like to greet and congratulate our colleague, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow,  the Director-General of Unesco, and his assistants, in appreciation of his sagacity, ju-  diciousness, sincere dedication, and great contributions and efforts. We congratulate you  and welcome the programme you have submitted, while sharing the broad horizons you have  laid out.
(17.3) Mr President, distinguished delegates, there is no doubt, as I have already stated,  that our meeting here to decide on important matters concerning the Programme, with its  five tasks and fourteen Major Programes, as well as the Draft Budget for the implementation  of these plans and the management of the Organization, is being held at a sensitive and  critical time. It is as though man today, despite his recent experience of two world wars,  one of which showed him the ruin and destruction that one atomic bomb can cause, has not  learned and does not wish to learn the lesson. For destructive wars are still a feature  of our period and times: wars in Asia, wars in the Middle East, wars in Africa, wars in  Latin America and the Caribbean islands, direct wars and delegated wars, legitimate wars  und6rtaken in self-defence and wars aiming at subjugation, exploitation, control and su-  premacy. Who, ladies and gentlemen, are behind these wars? Those we refer to as the  superpowers. And who are the victims? The Third World, the developing world, as well as  the peoples of those superpowers who, helpless and misguided, share in their governments'  actions. It is this obsession with war and the almost total preoccupation with arms devel-  opment as well as the effort, funds and energy this entails, which together constitute the  first and last reason behind the problems of the world today, with its unstable economy,  elusive peace and immense, bottomless abyss separating North from South.
(17.4) War, racial discrimination and apartheid policies, and actions aimed at control  and supremacy, are born in the mind - as was noted by Unesco at its inception; they are  ideas generated by an unhealthy psyche that are carried out by a sick and distorted will.  This is why Unesco's mission has been an appeal to the intellect and mind of man. The  memorable address which the President of the French Republic was kind enough to deliver at  the opening meeting of this Conference undoubtedly gave additional resonance to the im-  portant words with which the Director-General concluded his speech on the agenda and the  Draft Programme and Budget. It is for this reason, Mr President, that we stand by Unesco  and its undying message - as expressed on this occasion, in particular and in general, in  the programme submitted to the twenty-second session - a message from which we depart only  ,in order to intensify and promote it. We seize this opportunity to appeal to delegations -  particularly those representing the superpowers, which, by virtue of their resources, are  Mr President, Mr Deputy Director-General, distinguished Vice-presidents, dis-
142    in the best position to contribute - to strengthen Unesco's programmes for the twenty-  second session, programmes which conform to the resolutions adopted by the fourth extra-  ordinary session regarding the Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989. I would also like to call  on all delegations to approve the budget as submitted by the Director-General.
(17.5) Our National Commission as well as our educational institutions in Sudan, includ-  ing the Central Ministry for Education and Guidance, the Regional Ministries of Education  Services and the National Council for Higher Education, all give due attention and con-  sideration to Unesco's programmes and plans, using them as references for planning and  guidelines for implementation. It gives me great pleasure to affirm that we have examined  these programmes and plans and found that our own educational and initial and in-service  teacher training plans, tend to a large extent to follow the lines of these plans and ob-  jectives. We are now preparing programmed plans aiming at instituting compulsory education  for all by the end of the century. We have also formed a National Council for Literacy  and Adult Education to stem illiteracy and free ourselves from that scourge. We are also  in the process of modifying all our educational curricula to include an appropriate el-  ement of practical and environmental education. Education is thus in keeping with economic  and social development, fulfils individual and community needs and is dedicated to the  propagation of the spirit of work and production, and respect for that spirit. At the  same time, we have decided that formative technical education should predominate at the  basic level, and technical, applied and vocational education at the higher education level.  To that end, we are putting an end to divisions between the human and social sciences and  the natural and applied sciences. Furthermore, women hold an equal place alongside men in  all these plans. We are proud to say that the percentage of women accepted for enrolment  in higher education exceeded 40 per cent this year and that Sudanese girls have won a  place among the top students in universities and institutes of advanced studies. Sudanese  women, for their part, occupy distinctive positions in the state, the community and insti-  tutions for higher education in particular. This is not surprising, for our tolerant  Islamic religion emphasized women's rights and position hundreds of years ago.
(17.6) Ladies and gentlemen, the political and administrative background to all I have  said with regard to our situation in Sudan in relation to Major Programme I, 'Reflection  on World Problems', Major Programme II, 'Education for All', Major Programme IV, 'The  Promotion and Application of Educational Policies' and Major Programme V, 'Education,  Training and Society' is nothing more nor less than the advanced political situation that  has been achieved by the decentralization policies of the May Revolution. These policies  have been encouraged by President Jaafar Mohammad al-Nineiry, who clearly restates his  commitment to them in his comprehensive political programme for the Third Province, which  is an extension and development of the programmes for the First and Second Provinces.  The new reality thus achieved is a democracy, in which the people, even at the lowest  levels and in all regions, have the power of decision and the right of choice. We are  thus moving towards popular participation in development, which is one of Unesco's objec-  tives. Each region has an elected assembly and an elected governor, as well as a govern-  ment responsible to these. Thus, our developmental and educational policies, as well as  our social and medical service policies, and their implementation in the regions, are in  accordance with the people's will.
(17.7) Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, in order to give effect to the policies related to  these programmes and to make them up to date and appropriate, we are expanding and diver-  sifying our efforts in the area of the preparation, training and further training of  educational personnel as well as the area of the establishment of institutes, schools,  training centres, universities and research centres. At the same time, however, we are  concerned not only with such questions as how and how much to teach, who to teach, and  when and where to teach, but, first and foremost, with the question of what to teach. For  knowledge is power, and if we neglect man's education and fail to instil in him the spirit  of charity, fraternity, love, altruism and equality, he will exploit the power and might  of knowledge to wreak havoc and destruction. Is not man's tragedy today that it is the  scientifically, economically and industrially advanced societies that compel him to live  in his disturbeä world, a world of abundant production and unjust distribution, a world in  which peace appears to be unattainable and in which the great are insignificant and the  small helpless. As the Director-General indicated in his speech, we must think the fate  of a world in which this is the end-product of education. Where is the fault and how can  it be rectified?
(17.8) The Sudanese government's decision to use the Islamic Shari'a as the basis and  source of law in Sudan, a decision welcomed by the masses of our population, is nothing  more nor less than an endeavour to create a good society, one in which the authentic and  stable values of the Muslim Sudanese community predominate, and in which security, content-  ment and peace prevail.. Neither the misgivings of skeptics nor the lies of deceivers can  divert us from this course. We are thereby attempting to overcome the cultural invasion  which has contaminated our values and placed us under the domination of alien communi-  cation media, and are aiming at a new and better society which, we hope, will be one of  fruitful production and sound development.
(17.9) This is also our position with regard to Major Programme III, 'Communication in  the Service of Man'. The communication media which dominate the world today are not con-  cerned with truth, virtue or beauty, but are, for the most part, instruments of deception  corruption and sabotage. If some people, in the name of freedom, defend media of that  sort, it is our right to ward off this scourge and strive to create 'Communication in the  Service of Man', communication aimed at the revival, invigoration and enrichment of these  eternal human values - truth, virtue and beauty - in order to attain the great objectives  for which Unesco was established and for the sake of which we have come to this Conference.
(17.10) Despite the magnitude and diversity of our problems and the limitations of our  resources, our policy in Sudan is to assume our full responsibilities and discharge our  duty in our society and towards our neighbours and brothers in humanity and destiny,  fellow human beings whose fate we must share at the regional, continental and global  levels, to the best of our abilities. Hence our role in providing shelter for refugees  and treating them as respected guests who learn as we learn, work as we work and move  among us in dignity, fraternity and equality. The number of refugees has now grown to
743    approximately half a million, thereby constituting a burden on our resources, especially  in the areas of educational services, health care and employment. And even though we  receive aid from the refugee relief organization, we nevertheless ask Unesco, within its  fields of competence, to provide us with sufficient aid to enable us to carry out this  humanitarian task to the best of our ability. Hence also our role in encouraging the  processes of education, employment and economic activity in the neighbouring countries.  Concerning the strengthening of South-South relations, it gives me great pleasure to  inform you that the foundations of the integration project between Egypt and ourselves  have been laid and its institutions activated, with the aim of achieving peace and stab-  ility in the region. This integration,which is open to fellow Arabs and Africans, is  designed to enhance the prosperity and progress of our region and continent and to enable  us to carry out our international responsibilities, so that our offspring will be able to  travel in search of God's blessings and find appreciation and respect. Hence also our  concern with our role in regional, global and international organizations. There is no  doubt that we receive much assistance from brothers and friends all over the world, as  well as from a large number of international institutions, foremost among which is Unesco.  Unesco's role in fulfilling its mission would be greatly enhanced if it were to pursue its  policy of decentralization by creating or reviving regional offices and by working to  achieve more widespread use of the Arabic language in its activities, to put that language  on the same footing as those that are more frequently used within Unesco. It is also by  virtue of our policy of commitment to justice and the defence of justice that we repeat  our resolute position with regard to the problems of our African continent. The lot of  our brothers in Namibia and South Africa is still one of humiliation, death and destruc-  tion. Palestine remains occupied and its people dispersed. The features of Jerusalem, as  well as those of the towns of the West Bank, are still being altered by Israel at will.  Lebanon is still experiencing the continuation ofthe Sabra and Shetila tragedy. All these  facts have been unanimously condemned by the world, for they are offences to justice and  humanity. A firm stand should be taken by the international community towards those who  perpetuate such atrocities as well as those who aid and abet them.
(17.11) Mr President, Major Programes VI, 'The Sciences and their Application to Develop-  ment', VII, 'Information Systems and Access to Knowledge', IX, 'Science, Technology and  Society' and X, 'The Human Environment and Terrestrial and Marine Resources', are all proj-  ects which concern us and are relevant to our own project, which is to establish a modern  scientific state. We will be dealing with these matters in the specialized committees,  God willing.
(17.12) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this Conference's programme has acquired auth-  entic and important scientific and practical dimensions. We therefore affirm our support  for that programe and the detailed budget proposed for its implementation. If I may add  a point with regard to the budget, it is our opinion that it should increase rather than  decrease, as is the nature of all living things. A measure of growth is needed in view of  the fluctuating economic conditions in which we live and the heavy responsibilities which  the programme proposes to undertake. While I also commend the co-operation between Unesco  and the Arab States, I appeal to the Director-General to pursue his efforts to promote  Unesco offices in the Arab world, for they are a means of achieving decentralization and  put us in direct contact with Unesco's programmes. We hope that these offices will, cir-  cumstances permitting, find their place in the heart of the Arab region. Sudan offers its  land and people for the attainment of this goal, if only temporarily, until the offices  settle in their proper places. Mr President, I would also like to point out that our  Arab region is the only region which, has not yet acquired its own Regional Office for  Culture. I trust that this issue will be satisfactorily resolved under the current pro-  gramme for 1984-1985. In spite of this, I would like to commend Unesco's efforts to  achieve more widespread use of the Arabic language, while requesting further progress in  that domain.
(17.13) Mr President, it gives me pleasure to conclude my address by repeating my congratu-  lations to you, the Director-General, your assistants and all the Director-General's  colleagues, for theirs is important and serious work. I must also salute the French  government and the French people for the welcome and hospitality they continue to extend  to Unesco and its delegations. I thank you too, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention  and wish our Conference luck and success. Peace and God's mercy and blessings be upon you.
(18.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I thank the head of the Sudanese delegation.
(18.2) I now call on H.E. Dr Mavis Giimour, Minister of Education and head of the  Jamaican delegation.
19.1 Mrs GILMOUR (Jamaica) :  delegates, the Jamaican delegation, wishes to give its full endorsement to the work  of the Director-General and the Executive Board, and to congratulate them on the  success they have achieved, individually in each Member State and accumulatively in  the world as a whole. It is no little achievement that by its programmes and its  genuine interest in world peace Unesco has achieved measurable success.  Mr President, distinguished members of the Executive Board, honourable
19.2 Increased awareness and appreciation of the value of individual human rights 13  are among the significant achievements of Unesco, and the relationship between these  attributes and education, science and culture has underlain much of the work of the  Organization. People are conditioned at individual levels to develop biases and  prejudices, or to base their actions on preconceived notions; these are acquired  and not an inherited phenomenon; change and improvement can therefore be brought  about by education.
19.3 Mr President, to us in Jamaica, individual human rights and freedoms are the  bases of our nation's development. We realize that these rights are affected if a  large part of our population lack basic rights, literacy and numeracy - these are  prerequisites for any human being to develop a keen sense of individual freedom and  to give expression to his creative instincts. Our people must also be literate in  order to differentiate intelligently the bases of competing political claims. With-  out education, including basic scientific knowledge, the individual becomes dependent  on the wishes of the educated, and is vulnerable to new and outside forces.
19.4 Jamaica is therefore committed to Unesco's Programme, and has stretched its  resources towards the implementation of its different components. More resources  are being invested in primary education; and more attention is being paid to the  prevention of illiteracy by greater efforts to increase the number and quality of  primary schools. Steps are being taken to ensure that the primary school curriculum  includes an integrated approach to science and simple skills, and takes account of  human interpersonal relationship patterns. Compulsory attendance at school for
6-12 years-olds is being introduced in an attempt to ensure that psrents do not deny  their children the right of primary education, and also to provide the foundationson  which our people can build purposeful and satisfying lives in the modern and complex  world. Adult literacy and skills training are being improved by the introduction of  a national human employment and resource training programme to include 5,000 students  each year.
19.5 Educational institutions, however, are but instruments, and their value  should only be measured in terms of their capacity to promote human rights. Edu-  cation must create an environment in which, from an early age, children are taught  the principles of equality, freedom and respect for others. Sex-role discrimination  is not evident in our curriculum in Jamaica. Girls have never been denied access  to quality education. In fact, a number of our top technical and administrative  posts have always been held by women. It is therefore natural for us to endorse  Unesco's appeal for equal access for girls andwomen to scientific studies and to  all levels of technical and vocational education.
19.6 Mr President, the encouragement of peace and understanding among people is an  integral part of the development of human rights, and is the clear responsibility of  education, science and cultural activities.
19.7 Change in the last half of this century has been very fast indeed. The ac-  cumulated effect of new inventions and the rapid application of scientific knowledge  have put pressure on social organizations and on customs. The components of culture  do not change rapidly, and the world of the 80s is in a period of cultural maladjust-  ment. The cultural programmes of Unesco are designed to alleviate these problems,  through the promotion of smooth transition when change is emminent and also through  the restoration and preservation of the relics of our heritage. Thanks to Unesco's  efforts, Member States have gained a better understanding of each other's cultures.  The Government of Jamaica agrees with Unesco that efforts should be continued to  develop among Member States an awareness of groups, also to explore ways in which new  technological developments can be creatively integrated into cultural patterns.
19.8 Above all, Jamaica endorses the principle of Unesco that each Member State  should hold the culture of every other Member State in high regard.
19.9 Mr President, the Jamaican delegation fully supports the Draft Programme and  Budget presented by the Director-General, and notes with satisfaction that the  Director-General and his staff have adhered to the mandate of the Organization and  have responded to the demands of the Member States for meeting their needs in edu-  cation, science, culture and information. We therefore urge all Member States to  support the recommendations of the Director-General for a modest growth in the Budget  for the forthcoming biennium.
19.10 Honourable delegates, you are all well aware that the ability to reason is  the distinctive feature of man. This is evidenced by the achievement of the human  race. Each generation has its characteristic achievements - its discoveries, inven-  tions and its intellectual pursuits. The Government of Jamaica calls upon Member  States to record on the pages of history our concerted efforts to establish through  education, science and cultural development better understanding among nations and,  above all, the promotion of the welfare of all mankind.
19.11 Mr President, it was concern for the promotion of the welfare of all man-  kind, together with the deep and sincere commitment of my Government to the freedom  of the individual, which prompted Jamaica's instant response to the request of the  Organization of Eastern Caribbean States to help them to remove military oppression  and barbarity from Grenada. Such murders and savagery as were committed in that  island against Prime Minister Bishop and his Cabinet were not born of the Grenadian  people, and the facts are now irrefutable that foreign soldiers, equipped with  foreign arms, directed terrorism against the peaceful people of Grenada.
19.12 Jamaica, Barbados and the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States had no  military might to match that foreign force amassed in Grenada. Help was needed,  and my Government was party to the request to the United States of America to help  provide relief to our sister island nation in the time of her great distress. We  are grateful for the help of the United States of America. My own Prime Minister  visited Grenada a few days ago, and received a tumultuous reception from the re-  lieved and grateful Grenadian people, who are now busy restoring law and order and  a democratic and peaceful way of life. Jamaica is proud of having been able to  help, because freedom of the individual lies at the very core of the ideals of my  Government.
19.13 Thank you, Mr President.
(20.1)  lations to me.
(20.2) I now call on H.E. Mr Jambalyn Banzar, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Chair-  man of the National Commission and head of the Mongolian delegation.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I thank the head of the Jamaican delegation for her remarks and for her congratu-
(21.1) Mr BANZAR (Mongolian People's Republic) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr Said Tell, on your election to the high office of President of the twenty-second  session of the General Conference of Unesco and to wish you success in carrying out so  noble and responsible a task. Our delegation also welcomes the new Member States of  Unesco.
(21.2) Mr President, Yr Director-General, distinguished delegates, this session of the  General Conference must review in detail Unesco's many different activities, having  regard for the vital needs and interests of all peoples, and consider and approve the  Draft Programme and Budget of Unesco for the next two years.  Mr President, allow me on behalf of the Mongolian delegation to congratulate you,
(21.3) The successful implementation of all the measures set forth in the Organization's  Programme for 1984-1985 will depend largely on future developments in the international  situation.
(21.4) Today, as a result of the obstructionist policy of imperialist forces, prompted  by an uncontrolled urge for military superiority with the aim of securing a position of  domination, the world situation has sharply deteriorated.
(21.5) An explosive situation, fraught with serious consequences for the whole globe,  continues to prevail in various parts of the world - in the Near East, in Central America,  in Africa and in Asia.
(21.6) The recent premeditated armed intervention by the United States of America against  the independent, sovereign state of Grenada is a flagrant violation of the standards of  international law and of the United Nations Charter.
(21.7) The Mongolian People's Republic endorses the demands of peace-loving people  throughout the world for the speedy withdrawal of all foreign troops from the territory of  this state and for the people of Grenada to be given the possibility of solving by them-  selves their own domestic problems.
(21.8) Putting into effect the plan to deploy American medium-range missiles in a number  of western European countries will only serve to increase the threat of nuclear catastrophe,  not only in Europe but in the whole world.
(21.9) The Mongolian People's Republic, together with all peace-loving states, conse-  quently backs all the constructive proposals and initiatives of the Soviet Union and other  countries which provide for practical measures to check the arms race, eliminate the  nuclear threat and settle conflicts and critical situations solely by peaceful means, and  will continue to work resolutely to that end.
(21.10) As an Asian country, the Mongolian People's Republic cannot fail to note the  dangerous aggravation of tensions on that continent. In various parts of Asia imperialist  and militaristic forces are continuing to build up their military presence and form  military alliances, thereby posing a direct threat to the security of the peoples' of  that continent.
(21.11) The situation in Asia is such that all states ofthe region must take the most  effective joint steps to eliminate existing centres of tension and to strengthen mutual  trust and co-operation. In that connection I should again like to draw the attention of  the Member States of our Organization to the proposal of the Mongolian People's Republic  to conclude a convention on mutual non-aggression and non-use of force in relations be-  tween the states of Asia and the Pacific, which is acquiring ever great relevance in the  present difficult situation both in Asia and throughout the world.
(21.12) Mr President, it should be noted that Unesco's activities in recent years have  been marked by the Organization's endeavour to contribute to the solution of the problems  of the world today. The general policy resolutions adopted by the General Conference at  its last sessions are of great significance, as are the major steps Unesco has taken in  organizing such conferences as the Second World Conference on Cultural Policies, the  CASTASIA II Intergovernmental Conference, the Intergovernmental Conference on Peace  Education and many others.
(21.13) The agenda of this session of the General Conference affords broad scope for a  wide-ranging review of the activities of our Organization in the light of present-day  problems.
(21.14) We support the Draft Programme for 1984-1985 as a whole. This Programme will be  the first important step towards implementing Unesco's Second Medium-Term Plan, adopted in  December last year. The proposed projects under most of the major programmes are in the  main in keeping with the lines of emphasis of the Medium-Termplan. When theywere beingpre-  pared, consideration was given in large measure to the proposals made by Member States,  and great credit for this is due to the Secretariat of Unesco and its Director-General,  Mr Amadou Mahtar M'Bow.
(21.15) our delegation is of the opinion that the implementation of the principal pro-  grammes and activities planned in the various fields of education, science, culture and  communication should ultimately further the growth of Unesco's contribution to the sol-  ution of the problems of world peace and security.
(21.16) In this context, the delegation of the Mongolian People's Republic attaches great  importance to Major Programme XIII, 'Peace, international understanding, human rights and  the rights of peoples'. Unfortunately this major programme, the relevance of which is  becoming ever more apparent in present circumstances, has been considerably weakened in  comparison with the Second Medium-Term Plan and does not provide for the implementation  of specific activities by Unesco.
(21.17) In view of the steady growth of anti-war feeling among the general public today,  the new programme could envisage the holding of a meeting of the world's leading scholars  on the theme 'Nuclear catastrophe must not be allowed to happen' and the organization of  a series of other activities for the strengtheningofpeace and mutual understanding among  nations. In that connection our delegation supports the draft resolution (22 C/PLEN/DR.4)  containing 'An appeal to workers in science, culture, education and information'.
(21.18) The Mongolian people, like all the peoples of the world, is deeply concerned about  the increasing expenditure on armaments, expenditure which could be usedto further the  economic and social progress of the peoples of the world and to so1v.e such important  problems as eradicating illiteracy, providing material facilities for the education system,  protecting the environment, and many more.
(21.19) Under these conditions, Unesco's task of helping to generate a climate of public  opinion conducive to the halting of the arms race and the transition to disarmament is  becoming all the more relevant. That is why we feel it is important and opportune to  approve the draft resolution which provides for the implementation by Unesco of a series  of practical measures which would enable public opinion to be mobilized to an even greater  degree in support of the campaign to eliminate the nuclear threat.
(21.20) By what it is doing in education, science, culture and information to further the  cause of disarmament, Unesco is making a significant contribution to the execution of a  number of United Nations decisions and is taking an active part in its work. In particu-  lar, Unesco is implementing measures in connection with the Second Disarmament Decade,  and took an active part in the preparation and proceedings of the special sessions of the  United Nations General Assembly devoted to disarmament in 1978 and 1982, and in the ex-  ecution of the decisions of those sessions. With a view to further stimulating Unesco's  activities in this sphere, the delegation of the Mongolian People's Republic is submitting  for consideration by this session a draft resolution which aims to define more precisely  and to broaden the Organization's range of activities in connection with Disarmament Week,  in accordance with the decision ofthe Second Special Session of the United Nations General  Assembly Devoted to Disarmament.
(21.21) The Mongolian delegation attaches great importance to the parts of Major Programme  XII1 concerning the rights of peoples and human rights, and to Major Programme XII,  directed at the elimination of racism and apartheid. It should be stressed however that  questions relating to the rights of peoples have not been adequately reflected in these  programmes.
(21.22) The world today continues to witness flagrant, massive violations of human rights  and peoples' rights, particularly such elementary rights as the right to live in peace,  the right to work and the right to education. A clear illustration of the flagrant viol-  ation of such rights is provided inter alia by the aggressive actions of imperialist and  Zionist circles against the Arab people of Palestine in the Near East, and the policy of  racism and apartheid in South Africa.
(21.23) All this gives grounds for raising the question of whether Unesco should not take  more effective steps to contribute to the guaranteeing of the above-mentioned basic human  rights and peoples' rights.
(21.24) Mr President, we support Major Programme XI, which in our view reflects the main  thrust of Unesco's activities in the field of culture as set forth in the Medium-Term Plan.
(21.25) The delegation of the Mongolian People's Republic attaches great importance to  international cultural co-operation, which will contribute to mutual understanding, the  development of friendly relations and the creation of an international climate of trust.  In this regard we are in favour of Unesco's intention to convene, as part of International  Year of Peace (1986), a world conference of intellectual and creative workers to consider  the possibilities of adopting concerted measures for the use of their work and their cre-  ative potential and talents in the interests of peace.
(21.26) In our view, all possible support should be given to the Director-General's  suggestion that a proposal should be put to the United Nations for the proclamation of an  international decade for the development of culture.
(21.27) Our delegation supports in general the projects under Major Programmes II, IV and  V relating to education. We attach considerable importance to the programme measures for  the development of pre-school education, the establishment of closer links between school  and out-of-school education, the improvement of the qualifications of teaching and scien-  tific personnel, the proper linking of the education process with productive work and the  provision to needy countries of financial assistance for improving the material facilities  of their educational institutions.
(21.28) We feel that Unesco's prüqrdinme measures for International Youth Year should be  defined in specific terms. In this regard we have submitted for consideration by this  session a draft resolution intended to contribute to the attainment of that aim.
(21.29) The delegation of the Mongolian People's Republic notes with satis€action that  Unesco has recently begun to pay greater attention to the problems of information and  communication, which, as was noted at the twenty-first session of the General Conference,  are an important means of forging bonds between peoples in the interests of mutual under-  standing and mutual knowledge.
(21.30) A significant contribution by Unesco to the solution of this problem was its adop-  tion in 1978 of the Declaration on fundamental principles concerning the contribution of  the mass media to strengthening peace and international understanding, to the promotion  of human rights and to countering racialism, apartheid and incitement to war, and the es-  tablishment in 1978 of the International Programme for the Development of Communication.
(21.31) We attach great importance to Major Programme III which provides a very thorough  analysis of information issues and sets forth Unesco's fundamental aims and tasks as well  as practical measures for their implementation.
(21.32) It includes such important points as the situation regarding the responsibility  sf communicators, the drawing up of professional codes of conduct for journalists, the  necessary aspects of international law involved, and the elaboration of the concepts and  principles of the new world information and communication order.
(21.33) We support the legitimate demand of the developing countries for the implemen-  tation of practical measures for the establishment of the new world information order,  which is aimed at eliminating the imbalance in the flow of information between the devel-  oping and the developed Western countries and the eradication of other formsofcolonialism  in the field of information.
(21.34) The delegation of the Mongolian People's Republic further supports all Unesco's  programme measures which aim to help establish the new international economic order.
(21.35) We are of the opinion that observanceofthe principle of equitable geographical  distribution of seats in the governing and executive organs of Unesco will unàoubtedly  make for a better use of the achievements of Member States, increase the effectiveness  of Unesco's activities and ensure in practice that all Member States make a just and  equal contribution to the various activities of our Organization.
(21.36) Mr President, distinguished delegates, all sections of the population of the  Mongolian People's Republic today enjoy in equal measure the benefits of culture, scien-  tific and technological progress and education.
(21.37) Education, science and culture continue to develop in our country according to  plan. Schools providing general education are steadily increasing in number and edu-  cational activities are being constantly improved in accordance with the requirements of  modern scientific and technological progress. In December last year, a law on national  education was passed in the Mongolian People's Republic, confirming all the country's  educational achievements and laying down the main directions for further development and  fundamental principles for the country's education system.
(21.38) In our country, 1983 was proclaimed the year of the pupil. The main purpose of  this measure has been to mobilize the joint efforts of the government, the family and  social organizations in the cause of educating the young and developing creative initiative  among teachers and the general public.
(21.39) Mr President, the Mongolian People's Republic attaches great importance to its  contribution to Unesco's activities. Our scientists, teachers, cultural workers and infor-  matj.on personnel take an active part in Unesco's programme activities. In particular, the  Academy of Sciences of the Mongolian People's Republic is participating in the preparation  of the History of Civilizations of Central Asia. Our scientists are co-operating in scien-  tific research carried out by Unesco. Representatives of the Mongolian's People's Republic  were involved in the establishment of the news agency association of the countries of Asia  and the Pacific, the purpose of which is to establish a proper exchange of objective infor  mation and truthfully reflect the situation in the countries of this vast region. The  relevant institutions in our country are involved in regional projects for the establish-  ment of a network for research on the chemistry of medicinal plants, as well as a network  for the exchange of information and experience in the fields of science and technology.
(21.40) Institutions in the Mongolian People's Republic engaged in science, technology and  information are prepared to take part in pilot projects for the establishment of data  bases, the basic feature of which will be the use of microcomputers.
(21.41) We support Unesco's programme activities aimed at involving women and young people  in the life of the community, and propose to host an international meeting of experts on  ensuring active participation of women in political, economic, social and cultural life.
(21.42) These are our delegation's views and comments on some of the major programmes of  Unesco's biennial programe. We shall state our views on other sections and programes  in the respective committees and commissions of the General Conference. The delegation of  the Mqngolian People's Republic feels in general that the Draft Programme reflects the  interests of the Member States of Unesco and is in keeping with the function and role  which Unesco is called upon to play in solving the urgent problems of our times.
(21.43) Mr President, in conclusion, our delegation would like to give its assurance that  the Mongolian People's Republic will continue to contribute to Unesco's activities in the  interests of strengthening universal peace, eliminating the threat of nuclear war and  serving the cause of friendship, understanding and progress of the peoples of the world.  Thank you.  (Plr SMID, Czechoslovakia, took the Chair)
22. The PRESIDENT :  Hon. Mr Fateh Singh Tharu, Minister of State for Education, head of the delegation  of Nepal.
23.1 Mr THARU (Nepal) :  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates,  ladies and gentlemen, please allow me, on behalf of the Nepalese delegation and on  my own, to extend to Mr Tell our sincere and hearty congratulations on his unani-  mous election as President of this session. We are, indeed, highly pleased to  have the opportunity to attend this session in this beautiful city of Paris. We  hope that after careful discussion of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985,  the Conference will succeed in finalizing a comprehensive and pragmatic programme  for the coming two years.
23.2 My delegation also wishes to extend a warm welcome to the new Member  States which have recently joined the Unesco family.
23.3 Mr President, in addition, my delegation wishes to commend the Director-  General on his lucid report on the activities of the Organization, and on the prep-  aration of a very comprehensive and realistic Draft Programme and Budget. We note  I thank the head of the delegation of Mongolia, and I now call on the
752    with great satisfaction the depth of vision with which, in his proposals, he has  analysed global problems and suggested measures for solving them.
23.4 We feel that the Draft Programme and Budget before us, through which the  Organization seeks to tackle the major problems of the present-day world, genuinely  reflects the view-points of the Member States. Furthermore, the Draft Programme  appears to be in conformity with the Second Medium-Term Plan (1984-1989). We con-  sider that the document, in proposing activitiestobe undertaken within the frame-  work of the fourteen major programmes, presents a comprehensive view of fundamental  world problems.
23.5 My delegation wishes to commend highly the Director-General on the attention  paid to the resolutionsadopted at the fourth extraordinary session of the General  Conference in 1982. We also appreciate the consideration given to the Substantial  New Programme of Action (SNPA) for the 1980s for the Least Developed Countries, as  adopted by the United Nations Conference on the LDCs held in Paris in 1981, in de-  veloping the programme and budget proposals for 1984-1985. We are confident that  the Organization will ensure proper implementation of those activities as specified  for the least developed countries.
23.6 Mr President, we in Nepal, under the inspiring and dynamic leadership of  His Majesty King Birendra Bir Bikram Shah Dev, have been endeavouring to improve  our social and economic condition through the implementation of systematic develop-  ment plans. We are half-way through the current, Sixth Five-Year Plan, which has  adopted a basic-needs approach to development. It is mainly directed towards the  advancement of the poorer section of the society, which is often left out of the  mainstream of development efforts and thus deprived of the benefits accruing from  them. We believe that, as the prerequisites of development, illiteracy should be  eradicated, education should be geared to the manpower needs of development and  science and technology should be developed to mobilize natural resources and to  improve the quality of life.
23.7 Nepal has accorded high priority to the expansion of educational oppor-  tunities for its people, including adults, women and the disabled, together with  the promotion of vocational training and technical education. A high-level com-  mittee has recently been formed for the rapid expansion of adult education. The  national education plan has been greatly instrumental in systematizing and accel-  erating the pace of educational development.
23.8 Nepal is a predominantly rural country, and its people - as is the case with  many other developing countries - are handicapped in many ways as a result of their  inability to understand the different elements of development information that are  delivered to them. Nepal has recently initiated a project entitled 'Education for  rural development', which is designed not only to impart literacy to adults but also  to involve them in different forms of practical work. In technical and vocational  education, we have also undertaken the creation of a number of institutions for  manpower training in various categories and at various levels within the country  itself. But Nepal still needs to develop its own expertise in the preparation of  teaching materials and the design of instructional technics, as well as the estab-  lishment of the necessary physical facilities. In relation to the above, my del-  egation supports the proposed activities of Major Programme II concerning educ-  ational research for the eradication of illiteracy, democratization of education,  adult education and equalization of educational opportunities for girls and women  and education in rural areas, as well as technical and vocational training.
23.9 Mr President, my delegation wishes to express appreciation of the provision  made by the Organization for the necessary activities in connection with a more  effective application of science and technology for the benefit of mankind. Nepal  is endeavouring to strengthen its own scientific training, as well as research and  development programmes, through the creation of the necessary national infra-  structure. Thus, in 1982 the Royal Nepal Academy of Science and Technology was  established under the Chancellorship of His Majesty King Birendra Bir Bikram Shah  Dev, while a new programme for the popularization of science among the masses has  also been started.
23.10 My delegation would like to endorse the proposed activities of Major Pro-  gramme VI, which seek to strengthen the science and technology capabilities of  Member States, especially the developing countries. We also note with satisfaction  that Unesco's support for research activities and the advancement of knowledge in  various disciplines of the natural sciences, technology and engineering sciences  and social sciences and humanities will be continued. We further believe that  regional and international scientificco-operation programmes will help to strengthen  intellectualco-operation among nations, besides supporting national efforts in these  areas.
23.11 Mr President, water, as one of the major resources of Nepal, is yet to be  fully harnessed and properly managed for the economic development of the country.  We are thus making great efforts to increase our skilled manpower in the field of  water resources survey, development, utilization and conservation. We note with  great satisfaction that emphasis has been given to activities related to the train-  ing of specialists in water resources development, and that the study of problems  in this connection has been proposed in the programme.
23.12 Mr President, my delegation endorses the activities proposed under Major  Programme X as dealing with subjects of the utmost importance to all the Member  Skates, and notes that these are to be carried out under various intergovernmental  scientific programmes (IGCP, IHP, MAB, IOC). We welcome the emphasis on Programme  X.3, which includes three major regional projects for the rational use and conser-  vation of water in rural areas.
23.13 In Nepal, rapid population growth, coupled with the subsistance agro-based  economy and the growing demand for firewood and fodder, has led to rapid deforest-  ation and consequent soil erosion, landslides and floods. In view of the possible  results and the magnitude of the problem, our national efforts alone seem to be too  inadequate to restore the ecological balance; hence, there i5 a great need for re-  gional and international co-operation. In this context, Mr President, we highly  appreciate Unesco's initiative in establishing the International Centre for ïnte-  grated Mountain Development (ICIMOD) in Nepal. Mr President, I am pleased to inform  this gathering that this Centre will be formally inaugurated in early December this  year. We feel that continued support and increased assistance will be necessary  for its full-fledged operation, and my delegation is confident that co-operation  and assistance will be forthcoming from all concerned for it5 development and pro-  motion. We are convinced that the Centre, once it becomes fully operational, will  help substantially to ease the ecological problems of mountainous regions, and to  promote integrated development in the whole region which it covers.
23.14 We endorse the proposed study on the participation of university students  in the development process, particularly in the least-developed countries, in con-  nection with International Youth Year - 1985. In Nepal a National Development  Service (NDS) scheme has been launched by Tribhuvan University with the aim of  integrating higher study with work experience, especially in rural areas.
23.15 Mr President, we would like to share the world concern for the promotion and  development of national cultures. It is our belief that culture is one of the most  essential prerequisites for the creation of a world community in which countries  live in peace, each respecting the rights of others. Nepal is endowed with a rich  cultural heritage, and His Majesty's Government of Nepal would like to extend its  sincere thanks to the Director-General for supporting the Master Plan for the Conser-  vation of the Cultural Heritage in the Kathmandu Valley. Furthermore, my delegation  would like to express its utmost satisfaction at the inscription of Mount Everest  (Sagarmatha) and seven important monument zones within the Kathmandu Valley on the  World Heritage List. Nepal also intends to submit the nomination of Lumbini, the  birth-place of the Lord Buddha, which is located in Nepal, for inclusion on the List.  We trust that help, including technical co-operation, would be provided by the  Secretariat and the World Heritage Committee to achieve this aim in the near future.
23.16 Mr President, while communication has a positive impact on the education  process itself, it is also often regarded as a key factor in the process of socio-  economic growth, the development of scientific and technological capabilities and  the promotion of international understanding. Moreover, its role in the stregthen-  ing of national unity is often crucial; it also contributes to the dissemination of  knowledge and the formation of attitudes among the people. Hence we endorse the  activities proposed under Major Programme III, which will contribute towards strength-  ening the necessary foundation of a new world information and communication order.  We believe that the International Programme for the Development of Communication will  prove to be an effective tool for achieving the goals of international co-operation  for the development of communication. Special efforts may, however, be needed to  enable developing countries to share more fully the benefits of communication  facilities.
23.17 Mr President, the present-day world is composed of diverse societies; there  still exist many imbalances, inequalities, and tensions both within and among them.  We must make continuous and concerted efforts to create harmony through the pro-  motion of mutual understanding and the minimization of conflits. In this context,  my delegation appreciates the activities proposed under Major Programme I, and  hopes that they will stimulatenations to increased co-operation among themselves in  solving the major problems of the world.
23.18 Mr President, in Nepal, people of different faiths have long lived in har-  mony, and we conserve a strong desire for peace. His Majesty King Birendra Bir  Bikram Shah Dev put forward the proposal that Nepal be declared a 'Zone of Peace'
754    to the world community in 1975, as a vivid reflection of the Nepalese people's  ardent desire for peace. This desire is also reflected in the following statement  by King Birendra: '...As we are a peace-loving people, we seek to work for peace,  not in isolation from the rest of the world but in collaboration with the whole'.  Nepal has enshrined this motto in its Constitution as one of its guiding principles.  Consequently, it has supported all measures and activities that are directed towards  the promotion of world peace, and has been contributing to the cause in its own way.  Hence, my delegation appreciates the continued efforts of Unesco towards the pro-  motion of world peace, as reflected in the proposed activities of Major Programme  XII on the maintenance of peace and international understanding.
23.19 Thank you, Mr President.
24. The PRESIDENT :  H.E. Mr Mohamed Najib Alsayed Ahmad, Minister of Education, head of the delegation  of the Syrian Arab Republic.  I thank the head of the delegation of Nepal and I now call on
(25.1) Mr AHMAD (Syrian Arab Republic) (Translation from the Arabic):  General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I greet you from this international  forum which we have all, in the name of all peace and justice-loving peoples, agreed to  create as an expression of our aspirations and hopes for a bright future for us and for  our children, a future in which the spirit of co-operation, fraternity and love prevails  and in which man's achievements, both past and present, are perpetuated for the benefit  of world civilization and the preservation of the values and ideals to which our peoples  aspire. With this in view, we meet today to continue the onward march.
(25.2) Mr President, I shoiild like to take advantage of this opportunity to join the  distinguished heads of delegation who have preceded me, in congratulating the President  on this Conference's demonstration of its confidence in him. I have no doubt that the  work carried out under your judicious presidency will be crowned with all success.
(25.3) I should like to convey my greetings to the Director-General and his assistants,  and to express my esteem for their indefatigable efforts in preparing for this Conference  and in elaborating the document before us. This document is a faithful translation into  practical terms of the conceptual framework determined by the General Conference at its  fourth extraordinary session, the programme being planned and designed in accordance with  Che provisions of the Medium-Term Plan itself. This work, however, has not diverted  attention from the need, in deciding what the activities should consist of, to take into  account all other factors which could provide useful information about the needs of Member  States and the course which the international community would like the Organization's  action to follow.
(25.4) Mr President, it is with this in mind that Major Programme I, 'Reflection on world  Problems and Future-Oriented Studies' has been designed. Reflection on problems is a pre-  requisite to knowing and understanding their nature; this major programme proposes just  Mr President of the Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-
13    such an approach to universal and human problems. We congratulate Unesco, in the person  of its Director-General, for adopting this approach in this major programme, which  aims at providing the Organization with adequate information on its own actlon, pro-  moting the analysis and exchange of information with regard to world problems in a  spirit of open-mindedness and receptiveness to all the various currents of thought, con-  tributing to the advancement of ideas, and helping world opinion to grasp the significance  and scope of the major problems affecting the age we live in and our future. The focus,  in this programme, on factors causing change endows these studies with objectivity and  pinpoints the fundamental elements that determine the main lines along which our world  proceeds. The programmes appearing in this document, namely 'Education for All', 'Com-  munication and Society', 'The Sciences and their Application to Development', 'Information  Systems and Access to Knowledge', 'Principles, Methods and Strategies of Action for Devel-  opment', 'The Human Environment and Terrestrial and Marine Resources', 'Culture and the  Future', 'The Elimination of Prejudice, Intolerance, Racism and Apartheid', 'Peace, Inter-  national Understanding, Human Rights and the Rights of Peoples' and 'The Status of Women',  as well as youth and the achievement of decentralization, are all, in terms of their phil-  osophy, objectives, bases and methods of implementation, responses to the needs and aspir-  ations of peoples. They are thus more realistic than previous programmes, and better  suited to application and action. For this reason, we support these programmes and encour-  age the Organization to proceed along its present course.
(25.5) Now, Mr President, I should like to make some observations regarding some of these  programmes, The programme 'Education for All' is of utmost importance in itself, for  education is one of the individual's fundamental rights, in terms of equal access and  equal chances of success. Hence, the democratization of education, in the broad sense of  the term, and the promotion of lifelong education are the two themes which permeate this  entire major programme. In the last ten years, my country has exerted great efforts to  give effect tO this slogan, and has made great headway in this respect. Our schools now  hold a quarter of the country's population. We have also greatly expanded in the field of  higher education, both in terms of quantity and quality, convinced as we are of the need  for such expansion in providing the necessary personnel for the development under way in  the different sectors.
(25.6) Mr President, all our efforts will go to waste if communication and the media  remain restricted to a few nations and institutions, such that we witness a continuation  of the present disparities and great imbalance between these countries and all the devel-  oping countries. The concept of freedom has never at any time been synonymous with that  of monopoly, and development in the world can only occur and be fruitful with the achieve-  ment of balance in this field and elimination of the great disparity we are experiencing  today. Unesco is doing mankind a great service in adopting programes which help to  reduce that imbalance. We congratulate Unesco on its adoption of this approach and give  full support to its efforts in this domain. This, however, by no means implies that we  in the developing countries should refrain from making further effort. For we are serious  in this respect. We have paid great attention to the development of the media, strength-  ening our institutions by providing them with material resources and with the necessary  personnel. This effort, however, can be strengthened through international co-operation  and exchanges of information and experience.
(25.7) Mr President, my country has adopted the principle of the formulation and appli-  cation of educational policies, based on the democratization of education, the provision  of'equal opportunities to all citizens, at all levels and in all kinds of education, the  diversification of education at the secondary level and the forging of close links between  education and development. We have also shown serious interest in the trend towards the  sciences and their application. All these are among the many issues to which the Syrian  Arab Republic, under the leadership of President Hafez Al Assad, is devoting special  attention, providing the funds and other resources necessary for the application of our  plans in the fields of education, culture and the sciences in particular.
(25.8) Mr President, Unesco has called attention to the importance of the scientific  sector and its applications in the field of development, which open up possibilities for  international co-operation and consultation for the benefit and advancement of the nations  concerned and the welfare of their peoples by enabling them to draw upon and benefit from  information systems, thereby strengthening the capacity of each society to collect, store,  exchange and use the information necessary for its development, in particular through the  use of modern technologies. I have only the time here to refer to the importance of Major  Programme X, 'The Human Environment and Terrestrial and Marine Resources'. Development  is, to a large extent, linked with man's interaction with the environment in terms of give  and take. This programme is intanded to meet the twozold demand for better knowledge and  more rational use of natural resources, and effective protection and improvement of the  various elements that make up the human environment. We refer here to the importance of  the document in its perception of man's capacity and his future in terms of culture and  the preservation of the non-physical heritage, which is just as seriously threatened in  some respects as are works of art, monuments and historic sites. For man does not live by  bread alone. This brings to mindtheold proverb: if you have two loaves, sell one of  them and buy a bunch of flowers.
(25.9) The clear vision with which this document was formulated has endowed it with  particular importance by pinpointing areas of weakness. For the persistence of prejudice  and the emergence of new forms of intolerance and racism, with all that that entails, are  problems which cannot be reduced to questions of purely legal concern. They are primarily  a matter of social, political, economic and cultural organization. It is for Unesco to  direct itself to public opinion, as it is already doing in accordance with its Constitution,  in order to remove the misconceptions that give rise to attitudes and behaviour prejudicial  to relations among individuals and among peoples. Racial discrimination is still practised  in many countries of the inhabited world including the Zionist entity, where the Arab  population are its victims, the racist state of South Africa, and Namibia. We condemn  such inhuman practices and call upon the international community to oppose and put an end  to this violation of man's dignity, freedom and very existence.
(25.10) Mr President, my country seeks peace, and is endeavouring to achieve international  understanding and effective human rights and the rights of peoples. However, the peace we  seek is one based on justice. Israel, that racist entity which, aided and abetted by  world imperialism, occupied Arab Palestine and dispersed millions of Arab Palestinians, is  not content with that. Since 1967, it has invaded neighbouring countries and continues to  pursue its expansionist policy in accordance with the plans of the Zionist movement, that  successor of Nazism. Israel has lately devastated Lebanon, a fellow Arab country, de-  stroying its cities, towns'and villages. it also carried out the massacres of Sabra and  Chatila. This took place under the protection of the United States which, not content  with supplying it with weapons of destruction and defending it in international forums,  proceeded to land its forces in an effort to succeed where Israel had failed, balked by  the defiance and valour of the Arab population in Lebanon including old people, women and  children, in resisting occupation and defending their land. This bitter reality calls for  a firm stand on the part of the international community, as represented by our Organiz-  ation, in the face of the powers of evil and aggression and for the preservation of the  land, the people and the cultural heritage in this part of the world. In today's Le Monde  we read that the Zionist entity this morning shut down the University of Bethlehem for two  months. This university has one thousand two hundred university students. It also shut  down two UNRWA secondary schools in the Palestinian camps near the city of Nablus. This  action is fresh proof of the Israeli authorities' eagerness to implement its plans to  deprive the Palestinian Arab people - the rightful owner of its land - of its fundamental  rights, including the right to education, a right acknowledged by the UN and Unesco.
(25.11) Mr President, we live today in a world of mounting international tension as a  result of a worsening spirit of aggression by the strong against the weak, domination by  tyrannical and heavily armed forces over the rights of small nations, andinhuman practices.  The recent American invasion of the island of Grenada, a Member State of the United Nations  and in the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, is proof of these practices. The pretexts  offered by the invading forces cannot be considered convincing. This act of aggression  represents a blatant violation of the United Nations Charter and international law, as well  as aggression against a sovereign state. In addition to all that, it is a serious blunder  in international relations, threatening the peace and stability of all peoples and depriv-  ing them of the exercise of their natural right to security. When we draw the attention  of the international community to the gravity of this aggressive military policy, we can  only condemn this invasion, demanding the withdrawal ofthe invading forces in order to  allow the people of Grenada to exercise their natural right to sovereignty, independence,  freedom and progress in all fields, especially in the fields of education, culture and  science, for the purpose of which Unesco, under whose auspices we are meeting today,  was founded.
(25.12) Mr President, before concluding my remarks, I would like to stress the need for  projects involving wider use of the Arabic language as an official language in Unesco.  We, in the Arab region, call for this language to take its rightful place amongst the more  frequently used languages in Unesco, for it is a language which, due to its creative  ability and flexible capacity to assimilate all types of cultures and sciences both old  and new, has persisted through hundreds of generations as a language of culture and  sciences.
(25.13) Mr President, distinguished delegates, I should like, once again, to convey my  greetings to Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'BOW, the Director-General of Unesco, who has led our  Organization to high places, making of it one of humanity's radiant hopes. Nevertheless,  I see a need for further effort, in order for this Organization to continue to carry its  humane message under his judicious and mature direction.
(25.14) Ladies and gentlemen, as long as we go on meeting in international forums such as  this, debating and thinking together out loud, we shall have a chance of realizing the  objectives and hopes of mankind for the building of a human society in which the noble  and lofty values for which we all strive shall prevail. Thank you.
26.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of the Syrian Arab Republic.
26.2 The delegate of Israel wishes to speak - I presume on a point of order.  He has the floor.
27. M. SHAMIR (Israel) :  des paroles du délégué de la Syrie, qui a qualifié 1'Etat des juifs, 1'Etat  d'Israël, de successeur du nazisme. Je vous remercie.  Monsieur le Président, je voulais attirer votre attention sur la nature
28. The PRESIDENT :  I thank the head of the delegation of Israel, and I now call on H.E.  Mr Mamadi Keita, Member of the National Political Bureau, Minister of Higher  Education and Scientific Research, head of the delegation of Guinea.
29.1 M. KEITA (Guinée) :  Monsieur le Directeur général, honorables délégués, Mesdames, Messieurs, en prenant  la parole à cette tribune, où tant d'hommes illustres, tant de grands défenseurs de  l'égalité entre les hommes et entre les nations m'ont précédé, mon pays, la Répu-  blique populaire révolutionnaire de Guinée et son Parti-Etat ont tenu une fois de  plus 2 marquer solennellement leur attachement à l'Unesco, à ses idéaux de justice,  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif,
13  '759    de liberté, de paix, à ses nobles aspirations de démocratisation intégrale de l'édu-  cation, de la science et de la culture pour plus de compréhension internationale,  pour plus de bonheur pour nos peuples. C'est pourquoi je salue avec chaleur tous  les Etats venus rejoindre notre Organisation au cours de cette session, et dont la  présence vient accroître notre capital d'espérance en un monde de concorde.
29.2 Au nom de la délégation que j'ai l'honneur et le privilège de conduire,  je voudrais me faire tout d'abord l'agréable devoir de transmettre à la Confé-  rence générale à l'occasion de sa vingt-deuxième session les salutations chaleu-  reuses, le message de soutien actif que le peuple de Guinée, son gouvernement, et,  plus particulièrement le responsable suprême de la Révolution, le président Ahmed  Sékou Touré, leur adressent par ma voix. Permettez-moi aussi de saisir cette occa-  sion pour féliciter M. Tell de sa brillante élection à la présidence de cette vingt-  deuxième session, amplement motivée par ses indéniables et éminentes qualités d'homme  de culture. Celles-ci inspirent la confiance tranquille avec laquelle il conduit déjà  les débats de cette importante réunion. Permettez qiie je l'en félicite et que je  l'assure de l'entière disposition de ma délégation à une collaboration franche et  loyale. Nous voudrions dire aussi combien nous sommes convaincus que, sous sa sage  direction et avec le précieux concours de ses collaborateurs, la Conférence générale  prendra à la présente session des décisions conformes aux aspirations de nos peuples  et surtout aux espoirs légitimes des plus déshérités d'entre eux, je veux parler des  pays en développement en général et des pays les moins avancés en particulier.
29.3 Ma délégation saisit cette occasion solennelle, Monsieur le Président, pour  rendre un vibrant hommage et apporter le plein appui du peuple de Guinée à M. Amadou-  Mahtar M'Bow, le directeur général de l'Unesco, qui est à nos yeux, aux yeux de toute  l'Afrique, une source légitime de fierté, pour avoir su, par son ardeur au travail,  son sens élevé des responsabilités, métamorphoser les méthodes de travail de l'Orga-  nisation tout en respectant scrupuleusement l'Acte constitutif de l'Unesco, en leur  insufflant plus de dynamisme et en leur donnant progressivement une base de concer-  tation plus large et diversifiée. Ce sont là autant de conquêtes réalisées grâce à  la compétence et au dévouement du Secrétariat de l'Unesco et qui ont, en l'espace  d'une décennie, ouvert une nouvelle ère dans les modes d'action de notre 0rgar:isation.
29.4 Monsieur le Directeur général, je suis mandaté par le responsable siiprême de  la Révolution, le président Ahmed Sékou Touré, pour dire solennellement et publique-  ment à cette assemblée que vous avez, dans la poursuite de cette noble et exaltante  action, son appui personnel sans réserve, celui de son gouvernement et celui du  peuple de Guinée tout entier.
29.5 Monsieur le Président, le présent Projet de programme et de budget pour
1984-1985 ne ressemble à aucun de ceux qui l'ont précédé. I1 est la première  tranche biennale du deuxième Plan à moyen terme. L'on se souvientencore de la très  large consultation qui avait été entreprise à tous les niveaux, du travail de titan  qui avait été accompli pour collecter et analyser tous les éléments nécessaires à  l'élaboration de cet important plan.
29.6 Malgré la multiplicité des niveaux de réflexion, d'analyse et de discussion  franchis, nous formulons le voeu que ce Projet de programme et de budget soit encore  enrichi par des débats fructueux, tout en exprimant l'espoir légitime qu'un consensus  se dégage sans coup férir sur les points fondamentaux et que les ressources indiquées  pour la mise en oeuvre du programme connaissent un accroissement substantiel grâce  à de nouveaux apports sans lesquels la réalisation des objectifs que nous nous  sommes déjà fixés serait compromise 2 terme.
29.7 Pour ce qui nous concerne, les 14 grands programes dont la parfaite cohé-  sion interne emporte notre approbation n'appelleront de notre part qi:e quelques  remarques.
29.8 S'agissant du grand programme I "Réflexion sur les problëmes mondiaux et  études prospectives", nous dirons que les buts visés sont nobles, légitimes et  surtout rassurants dans un monde miné par des asymétries, des iniquités et des  égoïsmes révoltants ; dans un monde où l'ignorance, la faim, le sous-emploi, le  chômage, lamaladie sontlelotdeplus des trois quarts del'humanité, alors qu'uneinfime  minorité de cette même humanité vit dans la "suropulence". A cause de ces réalités  dramatiques, l'étude entreprise dans ce grand programme constitue un préalable  nécessaire. C'est grâce 2 ce diagnostic saisissant dans sa réalité brutale que  l'Organisation peut, par une meilleure connaissance des maux dont souffre le monde,  prétendre contribuer à la réalisation du borìheur de l'humanité. Sans cette étude  préliminaire indispensable, notre Organisation aurait ressemblé à un aveugle qui,  pressé d'arriver au but, aurait négligé de s'assurer un guide. La réflexion sur  les problèmes mondiaux et les études prospectives constituent les phares conscients  du Projet de programme et du Plan dont il est issu.
29.9 Nous insistons particulièrement sur la nécessité de donner une diffusion  très large et régulière au rapport de synthèse annuel dont la publication sera
760    assurée à partir de 1985. C'est en nourrissant l'espoir que cette diffusion aura  une efficacité optimale que nous avons particulièrement apprécié l'affectation au  grand programme I du plus grand pourcentage des ressources supplémentaires destinées  à corriger la répartition initiale des ressources entre les grands programmes.
29.10 Le grand programme II "Education pour tous'' correspond à la fois à un impé-  ratif de notre temps et à une responsabilité majeure, celle de trouver les voies et  moyens pour traduire dans les faits le droit fondamental de chaque homme à l'édu-  cation et de faire de celle-ci le moteur du progrès de nos sociétés. Pour atteindre  ce but, il est heureux que près de la moitié (47 %) des ressources prévues soient  destinées à l'élimination de l'analphabétisme, les efforts étant de plus en plus  axés sur la généralisation et la rénovation de l'enseignement primaire. Pour anéantir  complètement l'analphabétisme, il faut attaquer le mal à sa racine non seu1emer:t er:  offrant à chaque enfant la chance d'aller à l'école, mais aussi en créant les condi-  tions voulues pour réduire au maximum les déperditions. Scolariser tous les enfants  d'aujourd'hui, c'est faire l'économie d'un programme onéreux d'alphabétisation des  adultes de demain.
29.11 L'un des problèmes posés dans le grand programme II est la sensibilisation  de l'opinion publique. En République populaire révolutionnaire de Guinée, cet-te  sensibilisation est quasi permanente. La réforme de l'enseignement engagée le
2 août 1968 est sans cesse remise sur le métier pour mieux adapter l'enseignement  aux réalités nouvelles. A chaque échéance de planification nationale, des res-  sources considérables sont mobilisées. Depuis notre accession à l'indépendance,  les plus grandes dépenses, à chaque exercice budgétaire, sont consacrées à
1' éducation.
29.12 Monsieur le Président, nous savons que c'est aux Etats membres qu'incombe  l'exécution du programme de scolarisation. Mais de nombreux problèmes demeurent  sur la voie de cette action dont les principaux sont la faiblesse affligeante des  infrastructures et la pénurie angoissante de personnel enseignant compétent. Tous  ces problèmes, aussi complexes et urgents les uns que les autres, ne peuvent pas  trouver leur solution à notre seul niveau à nous, pays en développement. C'est  pourquoi, Monsieur le Président, nous souhaiterions que, dans la répartition des  ressources allouées à ce grand programme, un effort particulier soit envisagé pour  le développement de l'infrastructure scolaire et la formation du personnel ensei-  gnant des pays en développement, et surtout des PYA, dans le cadre des programmes
29.13 Monsieur le Président, la coopération peut aider à résoudre dans une large  mesure ces problèmes cruciaux. Si, de ce fait, nous approuvons pleinement la mise  en route du projet régional d'élimination de l'analphabétisme en Afrique,comme l'a  recommandé la Conférence des ministres de l'éducation et des ministres chargés de  la planfication économique des Etats membres d'Afrique à Earare en 1982, nous  constatons cependant qu'il est tenu surtout compte de la coopération régionale et  internationale. Nous pensons que l'action de l'Organisation pourra être bénéfique  à la coopération internationale au plan sous-régional. En effet des organisations  sous-régionales comme la Communauté économique des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest  (CEDEAO), l'Autorité du Bassin du fleuve Niger, l'OMVG, l'Union du fleuve Mano,  qui se multiplient dans notre continent, sont en train de démontrer leur vitalité,  leur dynamisme, en collant à des réalités de dimensions plus réduites, mieux iden-  tifiées et, partant, plus concrètes.
29.14 Le grand programme IV concerne la conception et la mise en oeuvre des  politiques de l'éducation. Les cibles visées par ce programme sont étroitement  liées aux activités du Bureau international d'éducation et de l'Institut interna-  tional de planification de l'éducation (IIPE) qui contribuent à la réalisation de  l'éducation pour tous. Ici, nous voudrions souligner, Monsieur le Président, l'im-  portance primordiale de l'IIPE, car pour la planification de l'éducation, ia plu-  part de nos pays manquent cruellement de cadres maîtrisant les mécanismes et les  facteurs de l'évolution des différents secteurs de l'éducation. I1 est par consé-  quent extrêmement inquiétant de constater la diminution régulière des contribu-  tions volontaires qui venaient participer efficacement au développement de cet  Institut. Aussi voudrions-nous inviter notre Conférence à se pencher sur les moyens  à mettre en oeuvre pour combler l'actuel déficit. D'ores et déjà, nous lançons un  appel pressant à tous les Etats membres pour qu'ils poursuivent leurs efforts en  faveur du développement de cet Institut dont l'importance n'échappe à personne.
29.15 Le grand programme V, dont les cibles portent sur l'interaction entre  l'éducation et les autres secteurs de l'activité sociale, intéresse particulière-  ment la République populaire révolutionnaire de Guinée qui, depuis sa réforme de  l'enseignement, a mis en pratique dans son système d'éducation basée sur la liai-  son entre l'école et la vie le tryptique de l'école vers la vie, l'école dans la  vie et l'école pour la vie par des mesures appropriées comme la décentralisation  des écoles pour éviter de couper l'enfant de son milieu naturel - en implantant
76 1    des centres d'éducation révolutionnaire des différents cycles dans les zones ru-  rales - par l'enseignement en langues nationales et des langues nationales, par  l'introduction du travail productif dans les programmes d'enseignement, pour ne  citer que ces quelques innovations. Soucieux du développement efficace de ces réa-  lités, nous donnons notre plein appui à ce grand programme.
29.16 Monsieur le Président, les grands programmes VI, VI11 et IX consacrés à ia  science, à la société et au développement recueillent également notre approbation  dans leurs grandes lignes car, il faut l'avouer, les perspectives économiques  actuelles sont loin d'être réjouissantes. I1 existe une farouche volonté de la part  des pays développés de confisquer les acquis de la science, les conquêtes de la  science et de ses applications techniques.L'endettement croissant des pays en déve-  loppement, la stagnation économique que connaissent la quasi-totalité des pays  africains, le fait que nos pays continuent à être un réservoir de matières premières  et un marché pour les produits finis des pays riches, la chute régulière du taux de  croissance de nos pays montrent que nous sommes loin d'être arrivés au bout du  tunne 1.
29.17 Monsieur le Président, il est vrai que notre philosophie est et demeure :  "Compter d'abord sur nos propres forces". Mais la seule mobilisation des énergies,  de toutes les énergies nationales, ne suffit pas pour endiguer les flots d'exi-  gences, de priorités aussi urgentes les unes que les autres, qui nous assaillent  de tous côtés. Nous adhérons donc avec conviction à toutes les propositions suscep-  tibles de placer l'Unesco àlapointe du combat scientifique et technologique en vue  du développement de nos peuples. C'est pourquoi les paragraphes 06349 à 06357 du  document 22 C/5 portant sur l'informatique, science qui bouleversera demain les  données de l'évolution de nos sociétés, ont particulièrement retenu notre attention  Le doublement des crédits des activités dans ce domaine est une initiative salu-  taire : grace à l'effort envisagé, l'Unesco pourra se doter d'un programme inter-  gouvernemental efficace similaire au MAB, au PHI, au PGI ou au PIDC, qui ont déjà  fait leurs preuves. Entre autres tâches immédiates à accomplir, il est urgent  d'entreprendre dans le cadre du programme VI l'établissement de l'inventaire du  potentiel scientifique des pays en développement, aussi bien dans les sciences  exactes que dans les sciences sociales et humaines.
29.18 S'agissant des principes, des méthodes et des stratégies du developpement  (grand programme VIII), nous avons été frappés, à la lecture du Projet de pro-  gramme et de budget, par le très faible accroissement révélé par l'estimation des  ressources disponibles. Si cette tendance se confirme, l'aide au développement  risque de se composer exclusivement de prêts ou de crédits remboursables, à des  taux d'intérêt qui permettent difficilement de respecter les délais de rembourse-  ment, ce qui, vous en conviendrez avec moi, provoque un alourdissement préjudi-  ciable de l'endettement. Parmi les conséquences visibles d'une telle situation,  celle qui frappe le plus est le blocage, faute de financement, de projets vitaux  identifiés dans les pays en développement, et surtout dans les pays les moins  avancés. Ce sont 12 autant de facteurs qui condamnent à terme toute perspective  de développement si de nouvelles orientations ne sont pas envisagées.
29.19 L'Unesco, en plus de son rôle en matière de formation des ressources hu-  maines dans tous les secteurs, doit aussi entreprendre une action vigoureuse pour  sensibiliser les sources de financement et les inciter à assouplir les critères  draconiens actuellement en vigueur sur les marchés financiers.
29.20 Monsieur le Président, malgré certaines inquiétudes qu'il nous a semblé  important de souligner pour préciser notre action, nous tenons à dire ici que, de  toutes les organisations du système des Nations Unies, celle qui nous paraît ia  plus apte à nous sortir progressivement du creux de la vague, à nous éviter la  dérive, c'est l'Unesco, en raison de sa vocation universelle qui est de contribuer  au développement des Etats par l'éducation, la science et la culture, facteurs  essentiels de la paix. C'est pourquoi nous soutenons fermement tous les grands  programmes du Projet répondant à cet espoir.
29.21 Monsieur le Président, dans l'examen du grand programme X "Environnement  humain et ressources terrestres et marines", le programme X.4 "L'océan et ses res-  sources" a spécialement retenu notre attention.
29.22 Le grand programme XI "La culture et l'avenir", conçu comme il l'est, se  situe comme nous le souhaitons dans le prolongement de la Conférence MONDIACULT  de Mexico. Quand nous parlons de cette Conférence, nous ne pensons pas exclusive-  ment aux recommandations faites et aux résolutions adoptées, mais à l'esprit qui  est né de cette Conférence. De puissantes lames de fond ont désagrégé les récifs  de l'égocentrisme et de l'exclusivisme culturels, des certitudes qui se voulaient  absolues. L'éclosion d'une nouvelle conscience de nos cultures à nous, peuples  anciennement opprimés, est l'un des résultats les plus réconfortants de la der-  nière Conférence MONDIACULT.
29.23 Le grand programme XI, dans toutes ses activités et surtout ses aspects  relatifs à l'identité culturelle et au développement des relations interculturelles  (programme XI.2), répond à nos préoccupations.
29.24 Monsieur le Président, nous savons que la recherche des sources de l'into-  lérance, du racisme et des préjugés raciaux a toujours été une priorité pour l'Or-  ganisation. Mais nous voudrions que dans ce programme, parmi les moyens mis en  oeuvre pour combattre ces fléaux, il soit accordé une importance accrueauxsciences  sociales et humaines dont le rôle essentiel est la présentation de l'identité de  chaque groupe dans ses nuances les plus difficiles a appréhender.
29.25 Sur les droits des peuples et les droits de l'homme, qui sont le thème du  grand programme XIII, nous ne nous livrerons pas à de longs développements. Confor-  mément aux voeux que nous avons exprimés à maintes reprises devant le Conseil exé-  cutif, lors de la quatrième session extraordinaire de la Conférence générale et  dans nos projets de résolution, nous vous donnons rendez-vous dans notre pays pour  débattre plus amplement des droits de l'homme et des droits des peuples, si la  Conférence générale nous fait l'honneur de décider que se tienne à Conakry la  réunion prévue en 1985 sur la problématique des droits des peuples, sa portée his-  torique et pratique, et sur les droits de l'homme dont il est question dans les  paragraphes 13211, 13213 et 13214 Gu document 22 C/5.
29.26 Monsieur le Président, et je m'achemine vers ma conclusion, c'est volon-  tairement que nous avons réservé pour la fin de notre intervention le grand pro-  gramme III qui, à notre humble avis, est la clé de voûte du développement de tous  les autres secteurs de compétence de l'Unesco. La communication est le support, le  vecteur indispensable de la diffusion des études réalisées, des expériences acquises  dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture.
29.27 Instaurer une situation plus équitable dans le domaine de la communication  et des médias en réduisant progressivement les inégalités et les déséquilibres qui  subsistent entre les différents pays et les différentes régions du monde, ainsi  qu'à l'intérieur des nations, tels sont les objectifs que le grand programme III  veut atteindre. I1 s'agit là d'objectifs ambitieux mais qu'il est impératif de  réaliser entièrement. C'est pourquoi nous approuvons l'initiative heureuse d'al-  louer au programme 111.3, qui regroupe les activités de développement de la commu-  nication, 62 % du total des crédits prévus pour ce grand programme.
29.28 Monsieur le Président, pour ne pas abuser du temps précieux de cette  auguste assemblée, nous voudrions nous limiter à ces quelques réflexions que nous  avons cru devoir vous livrer, expression sincère de notre foi profonde et de notre  conviction inébranlable en notre idéal commun. En vous indiquant, avant de terminer,  que ma délégation approuve, corrime vous l'avez compris, ce Projet de programme et de  budget, et qu'elle se réserve le droit d'intervenir en détail au sein des commis-  sions, je vous remercie de votre obligeante attention.
30. The PRESIDENT :  Nado Rinchhen, Director of the Education Department, head of the delegation of  Bhutan.
31.1 Mr RINCHHEN (Bhutan) :  gentlemen, my delegation has great pleasure in conveying the warm and best wishes  of his Majesty the King, Jigme Singye Wangchuck, for the most fruitfut delibera-  tions of this twenty-second session of the General Conference of Unesco.  Mr President, may I also join with previous speakers in congratulating Mr Tell on  his election to the presidency and all the Vice-presidents on their election to  high office at this session. The task before the President of the General Confer-  ence is not an easy one. Nevertheless, my delegation has every confidence that,  under Mr Tell's able leadership, we shall be able to conclude the challenging task  facing this Conference most successfully. On behalf of my delegation, I wish to  assure you, Mr President, of the sincere co-operation of my delegation in its  deliberations.  I thank the head of the delegation of Guinea, and I now call on Mr Dasho  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and
31.2 We are also happy to welcome new Member States and Associate Members of  the Organization, and look forward to closer international co-operation through  Unesco. The increase in the number of Member States in Unesco's family justifies  our faith and trust in Unesco to promote the spirit of understanding and spirit of  co-operation among Member States in the fields of education, science and culture  and thereby promote peace and prosperity in this world.
31.3 My country - the Kingdom of Bhutan - joined Unesco only last year; and, soon  after joining the Organization, we had the privilege of participating in the fourth  extraordinary session of the General Conference. Our association with Unesco is,
763    however, older than our membership. Through a teacher-training college project  funded by UNDP and executed by Unesco, Bhutan was introduced to the Organization  about seven years ago. Today, I am happy to report that the first phase of this  project has been very successfully implemented, as a result of which one of our  serious problems, namely the shortage of national teachers for primary schools,  and particularly those in rural areas, has to a large extent been solved. We  highly appreciate Unesco's Co-operatiqn and contribution in this project. We have  this year launched the second phase of the project, under which we are making  efforts to create adequate facilities for the training of secondary-school teachers  We are confident that with Unesco's active participation and co-operation, we shall  be able to implement the project to the satisfaction both of Unesco and the Royal  Government. Needless to say, this will be an important step in the history of the  development of education in Bhutan. For Bhutan, Mr President, participation in  Unesco has been a beneficial experience.
31.4 Mr President, Bhutan belongs to the group of least-developed countries with  a low rate of literacy. Though the traditional type of education based on monastic  studies has existed in my country for centuries, modern education is of recent  origin. Recognizing the crucial role played by education in the socio-economic  development of a country, top priority is being given to the education sector in  our Five-Year Development Plans, involving the allocation of a major share of our  limited resources to education. Efforts are also being made to expand primary  education facilities to enhance the literacy rate and to provide education to as  many children as possible. The Royal Government has placed special emphasis in our  current Five-Year Development Plan cn building national capacity with regard to  educational planning, management and economics, the expansion and improvement of  primary education, the development of suitable curricula and textbooks, the estab-  lishment of technical and vocational institutions, the pre-service and in-service  training of educational personnel and the planning of higher education. Appropri-  ate measures are also being taken to preserve and promote traditional forms of  education to preserve our unique cultural heritage. We look to Unesco to provide  active participation and co-operation to supplement and complement our national  efforts in these important areas of education.
31.5 Mr President, Bhutan wishes to express its full satisfaction at the close  correspondence between the programmes and action proposed in the Draft Programme  and Budget for 1984-1985 and the important objectives of the Second Medium-Term  Plan approved by the fourth extraordinary session of the General Conference last  year. We are happy to note that every effort has been made to bring about a good  balance between action-oriented programmes and reflection. We wish to congratu-  late the Director-General on the excellent work accomplished.
31.6 In the field of communication and information, the traditional form of  dissemination of information in Bhutan was mainly interpersonal in character.  Now to meet the needs arising from the rapid pace of socio-economic development  programmes in the country, efforts are being made to expand and improve the collec-  tion and dissemination of information with a matching delivery system. In keeping  with needs, we have set up a Development Support Communication System Division in  the Department of Information to facilitate a two-way flow of information between  the government and people. Under this communication system, we use both traditional  and modern media such as graphic work, photography, films and audio-visuals. Within  the short span of its existence, the Development Support Communication System has  proved itself an effective system of communication in a country like ours where  literacy is low.
31.7 Under Major Programme III, 'Communication in the service of man', Bhutan  will appreciate the assistance of Unesco and Member States in establishing appro-  priate infrastructures and facilities, in providing training and further training  for communication personnel and in connection with the supply of audio-visual  media equipment.
31.8 Mr President, Bhutan gives its support to the programmes proposed in Major  Programme VI, 'The sciences and their application to development'. After centuries  of self-isolation, my country launched modernization programmes about two decades  ago. It was only in the middle of this year that a small Science and Technology  Centre was set up in my country. Being at the threshold of scientific and tech-  nological capability at a time when the paceof technological development is ex-  tremely rapid, and in view of the fact that my country is one of the least-developed  countries, the challenge facing us in our pursuit of rapid socio-economic develop-  ment is formidable indeed. We are hopeful that, with the close and active co-  operation of Unesco and its Member States, we shall be able to develop an appro-  priate scientific and technological infrastructure to enable us to build up our  national capability to develop programmes of fundamental and applied research SO  that we can benefit from the transfer of appropriate technology. By tapping our  vast natural resources, we shall thereby be able to raise the living standards of
764    our people. The small size of many developing Member States, particularly those  belonging to the least-developed group of countries like my own, imposes a limit  on the nature and scope of national efforts for the obvious reasons of constraints  in resources and technological know-how, which make regional and international co-  operation a vital necessity.
31.9 Mr President, my country is endowed with a rich and unique cultural and  spiritual heritage. We have numerous monasteries, temples and Stupas with a vast  treasure of priceless images, paintings, manuscripts and xylographs, whose history  goes as far back as the seventh century A.D. Having realized the spiritual and  traditional values of these treasures, the Royal Government has taken necessary  measures to preserve them through the establishment of appropriate institutions  such as a Library-cum-Archive, the National Museum and an Antique Freservation  Department. We believe that such values, which are of the greatest importance for  the cultural identity of our people, havetobe preserved and strengthened to avoid  their being eroded in the process of modernization. However, in our efforts to  carry out the task, we are faced with constraints of financial resources and tech-  nological know-how.  States in the restoration and preservation of historical monuments in different  parts of the world, could also extend its expertise and financial assistance to  Bhutan under Major Programme XI, 'Culture and the future'. Bhutan also wishes to  request the inclusion of some of our ancient historical monuments and sites in the  programme for the protection of the world's major monuments.
31.10 Mr President, I should like to conclude my statement by saying that my del-  egation is happy to note that the Director-General will continue to assign high  priority to requests for co-operation from the least-developed countries in the  execution of Major Programme II, 'Education for all'. It may be worth mentioning  here that a number of areas for which assistance needs to be made available to the  least-developed countries were identified at the Meeting on the Least-Developed  Countries' Needs and Priorities in Regard to Education, organized by Unesco in  Paris during September 1982. Prior to that, Unesco had also convened a meeting of  the senior officials of the education ministries of the least-developed countries  in 1975 here in Paris. In 1981 a high-level United Nations conference of the least-  developed countries was also held here in Unesco. Bhutan was present on all these  occasions. Mr President, I am referring to these meetings to express my govern-  ment's appreciation of the pioneering initiatives taken by Unesco and, in particu-  lar, the personal endeavours of the Director-General ar,d his recognition of the  special needs of the least-developed countries and his concern to help them. If  the widening gap between the rich and the poor, the developed and the developing  countries is ever to be bridged, then the least-developed countries should receive  the sympathy and the generous assistance of international organizations. The  happiest day in our life will be the day when there is no longer a group called  the least-developed countries within the Unesco family and when all the Member  States, big or small, shall march hand in hand towards our common goal of peace  and prosperity. Thank you, Mr President.  Unesco, withits wide-rangingpast experiencein assistingMember  (Mr Tell resumed the Chair)
(32.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the distinguished head of the Bhutan delegation for his address. I would  also like to thank him for his congratulations. I should also like to thank the heads of  the delegations of Nepal, the Syrian Arab Republic and Guinea for the congratulations  they expressed during my short absence from this room.
(32.2) I now give the floor to H.E. Dr Ahined Ali, Minister for Education and Youth and  head of the Fijian delegation.
33.1 Mr ALI (Fi];) :  gentlemen, on behalf of my delegation, I wish to congratulate you, Mr President,  on your well-deserved election. I am confident that Unesco will benefit from your  experience and from your expert leadership. As a new member and on the very first  occasion on which I participate in the general policy debate, I can assure you and  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and
765    Unesco of the willingness of my country to participate fully in the various areas  of human co-operation which must unite us if we try to better the conditions of all  the peoples of the world, especially the oppressed.
33.2 Mr President, I should like to thank all those delegations which have  warmly welcomed us to membership of this august Organization. My country has been  independent now for thirteen years: as befits a small country, we have moved cau-  tiously and joined only those international organizations which might advance the  interest of our young nation and the world as a whole. We joined Unesco after  careful consideration because membership entails the responsibility of working  towards the goals for which the Organization was created. We are confident that  Unesco will not only continue to fulfil its obligations to the world, but will also  become increasingly aware of and involved in identifying and helping fulfil the  aspirations of small island states of the South Pacific, several of which are  members of Unesco.
33.3 Mr President, we welcome Unesco's decentralization policy of strengthening  regional offices. In our South Pacific region there are several well-established  regional institutions like the University of the South Pacific, the South Pacific  Bureau for Economic Co-operation, both based in Suva, as well as the South Pacific  Commission with its headquarters in Nomea and the Pacific Island Development Pro-  gramme in the East-West Centre in Hawaii. The objectives of all these organiz-  ations are akin to the worthy purposes of Unesco. It would be to the benefit and  advantage of all the peoples of the South Pacific if Unesco consulted and co-  operated with these organizations in developing regional programmes even more than  at present.
33.4 Mr President, among the manifold objectives of Unesco is the preservation  and enrichment of the diverse cultures of the world. While all cultures are equal  in dignity, there is no single model for their development, nor is there any single  historical course that all societies must follow. Thus we must always remain sen-  sitive to the desires of all cultural groups, especially those which constitute a  minority in a national state dominated by several cultural groups. In my country,  we are endeavouring to weave the fabric of one nation from many varying cultural  strands displaying differences of race, religion and language. In our population  of 600,000, both the Melanesian and the Polynesian cultures indigenous to the  Pacific are to be found as well asculturesof Indian and Chinese origin: we also  have a small but significant European population whose English language permits  dialogue among all of us. In our country, too, for over one hundred years, three  great religions, Christianity, Islam and Hinduism, have Co-existed and grown in  exemplary peace. Our cultural policy as enunciated by our Prime Minister has been:  'success in such handiwork is not achieved by trying to impose a dull uniformity  on all threads - indeed the very threads would reject it - and in any case what a  drab picture would emerge. No, success and the fullest exploitation of all our  assets is to be achieved by the closeness of the weave, and the blending of the  varieties so that the inherent good points of all are fully utilized to provide a  rich and varied texture'. We are prepared to share our positive approach and our  success with other members of Unesco, for we feel we have something to contribute,  something to give to all while at the same time learning from the experience of  others.
33.5 Turning now to the report of the Director-General, I should like to commend  him on his very comprehensive exposition. In particular, we appreciate his phil-  osophy that action incorporates reflection at each stage of the developmental pro-  cess. It is certainly not sufficient to draw only from the body of knowledge that  already exists: we must in our exploration discover new fields for man's progress.  Without constant updated reflection, this Organization, too, would be in danger of  succumbing to principles and approaches inspired by the experience of certain so-  cieties alone. The Director-General's report and the programmes he has submitted  for the next biennium astutely try to avoid this pitfall. His aims in this regard  have my delegation's full support.
33.6 Mr President, the various programmes set before this Conference have our  general support. I have noted with special satisfaction the emphasis laid on edu-  cation for all and on'equality of educational opportunity for both sexes and for  rural as well as urban dwellers. We fully endorse the special emphasis laid on  the promotion of the right of education of particular groups which have special  problems. In the same vein, we are fully in favour of the efforts which Unesco  through its programmes proposes to make for women so that they can play their role  as equals in the development of our societies. Indeed in our proclamations about  the need to respect human dignity we would be guilty of neglect and even of hypoc-  risy if we overlooked equality of opportunity and advancement for our women. We  cannot have discrimination of any kind, whether it be of race, sex, or religion,  if we are to have peace with dignity in our world.
33.7 Literacy as such does not constitute a problem for my country, and we are  fortunate that nearly all our school-age children go to school. We have nonethe-  less other problems. We need to redress disparities in the performance of our  various ethnic groups and between our rural and urban dwellers. We will, there-  fore, be looking to Unesco for help in our remedial programmes.
33.8 Since we have overcome some of the basic difficulties in education we must  prepare our people to play a fuller role in the world because we are all part of a  world system. Major Programmes VI on the sciences and their application to devel-  opment and Programme IX on science, technology and society are of particular  interest to us, and it is our hope that Unesco will be forthcoming in helping us  develop and improve our capability in these areas.
33.9 Committed as our Government is to the preservation of all our cultures, and  given our achievements, we are certainly prepared for an interaction with Major  Programme XI, 'Culture and the future'. We believe this to be a very important  programme, because when people feel secure about their culture, which is the source  of their identity, they tend towards tolerance to others and support peaceful  Co-existence.
33.10 Fiji is an island nation, made up of over 300 islands scattered over a very  large area of ocean. Maritime resources and their exploitation are of increasing  importance to us and will be even more important in years to come. My Government  therefore supports the call to enhance the resources of the International Oceano-  graphic Commission. Small states like Fiji do not possess all the means to exploit  their exclusive economic zones and Major Programme X thus could and should provide  urgently needed assistance so that we can safeguard and utilize our marine resources  in our own interests.
33.11 Mr President, I wish to plead with you to ensure that the South Pacific  island states are represented on Unesco's Executive Board. As island states, we  have distinct needs and aspirations: if we were represented our voice would be of  benefit to Unesco and its members. Since the accession of the South Pacific island  states to Unesco leads to an increase in the membership to the electoral group to  which we are assigned, it is both reasonable and logical for us to expect that our  presence is reflected in the Executive Board and other Unesco bodies as well.
33.12 As regards the financial resources of the Organization, my delegation has  noted the remarks of some of the larger contributor countries. Their position and  anxieties are understandable, but we suggest the need for a broader perspective  which recognizes that we are all being affected by the current economic recession,  which in fact plagues small countries with limited resources even more than those  considered developed and wealthy. We must not abandon the idealism that led to the  creation of Unesco. Much has been achieved, but more needs to be done. It is in  the spirit of helping one another that we must move forward. Thank you,  Mr President.
(34.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  congratulations.
(34.2) I now call on H.E. Dr Moharnmad-Ali,Najafi, Minister of Culture and Higher  Education and head of the delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran.  I thank the head of the delegation of Fiji for his remarks and for his
35.1 Mr NAJAFI (Islamic Republic of Iran) :  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate,
35.2 'And He has subjected to you what is in the heavens and what is upon the  earth, all together, from Him. Surely in that are signs for a people who reflect.'  (The Holy Koran, 45:13).
35.3 Mr President, Mr Director-General, honourable delegates, brothers and  sisters, to begin with let me express the pleasure of my delegation in participating  in the twenty-second session of the General Conference of Unesco. We hope that in  discussing and approving the future programme of Unesco, we shall attend to the  urgent and basic issues of the world today so that in future years, we will bear  witness to the real mission of Unesco, which is to revive the true nobility of human
761    beings and exalted human values, at the same time as it struggles with injustice,  oppression and discrimination in the area of cultural affairs.
35.4  that  affai  in  .rs  At the outset, I feel it is necessary to bring to your attention the fact  the Islamic Republic of Iran the people and those responsible for daily  do not have time for diplomatic flattery and political procrastination.  Instead, they speak openly and frankly, hoping that perhaps the balance of forces  which today rules international gatherings and which in reality is nothing but wide-  spread collusion will change to the advantage of solving the sufferings of today's  humanity and to the advantage of the enslaved, deprived masses.
35.5 My discussion begins with the status of humanity. It can hardly be denied -  at least from the formal point of view - that the exaltation of human beings  and the high status of their existence must be the main theme of Unesco's programmes.  This view is not exclusive to Islam - which forms the basis of our thoughts and  actions - for all divine religions accord a special position to human beings in the  world, and all stress that the world was subjected to their evolution and purifi-  cation to and reaching towards an eternal, infinite perfection. In the Islamic  point of view, the human being is a creature whom the Creator of the world considers  worthy of respect. Now let us see how this highly respected, divine creature has  been treated. Unfortunately, time does not permit us to go into the past. As for  today, let us look at human beings whose only desire is not to fall under the yoke  of despotic powers and who want to preserve ethical nobility and respect for their  culture - let us see how they are treated.
35.6 If Unesco as a scientific and educational organization clearly wants to be  the support of human beings and help them to be able to attain perfection, then we  cannot just look at the surface of the matter. We are obliged to rend the veil  asunder, see what causes and factors have brought about this tragic situation and  come to know how criminal roots - which are prevalent in today's humanity - grow.  It is our opinion that the roots of all these problems come from only one source.  The world has been captivated by powers whose leaders do not regard human beings  as creatures who are the vicegerents of God upon earth and who are worthy of respect,  but they look upon them as a means of attaining their own interests and goals.
35.7 We have to admit that the image that these usurpers of power have of the  human being is grimmer than this, for they spend millions of dollars annually on  the preservation of wild birds and animals while at the same time they generously  provide their insane friends with nine metre long missiles who then, in turn, send  them down in the heart of the night on the homes of innocent people of the cities.  Before you can blink an eye, all are killed, Or their fighter planes aim at the  homes of the oppressed people of other countries and bring death to them. What can  be inferred from these acts? It has to be said that today those tyrants who hold  power in the world have a transmuted, contemptible image of human beings - the vice-  gerents of God. These crimes against people stem from the image they have of  humanity.
35.8 Thus, if this respected gathering of Unesco sincerely wants to discuss cul-  tural and human issues of humanity today, it is obliged to turn its attention to  the factors and conditions which cause such an image to take shape and, more import-  ant than this, study the effects which stem from this image. A detailed discussion  of these issues in the various forms which they take will not be found in my speech.  Rather, I am obliged to turn to the axes and basic factors so that, based upon them,  the proposed programmes of Unesco for the years 1984-1989 may be discussed.
35.9 The first issue is the misuse of science and technology. It is clear that  the development of science and technology provides forthepossibility to reach even  the most hidden corners of human life. As an example, the means of communication  have created such power that it can readily manipulate public opinion and mislead  it. It can create a false sense towards issues in people, or, by turning the truth  around, bring about the image they desire within the minds of millions of people.  Science and technology change a great deal of potential energy into actualities, but  unfortunately, this actualization is controlled by usurpers of power who have the  above-mentioned false notion of human beings. The domination of the arrogant over  the vast communications systems and the mass media have forced human beings in the  light of the information and news as presented to them, to surrender their freedom  of choice and, instead of being active, become passive. Human beings cannot then  choose, desire and come to know that which is right and that which is good for them  because they are imprisoned by the media which transfer the truth in whatever form  that they wish to take.
35.10 It is clear that if ethics and respect for the truth do not reign over the  mass media the latter will not only cease to be a tool for communication between the  individuals of a given society and not only cease to create awareness of various  cultural values, but will act as a strong means for power-seeking governments so  that what they want to publish as the news is spread, creating a climate for mis-  leading the people and so laying the ground work to attain the goals they desire.
768    To give an example, let us refer to the recent explosionsthat led to the death of  foreign soldiers in Lebanon. In this incident, some of the mass media tried to  convince people that the Islamic Republic of Iran was informed of this event before  it took place or that it was even involved in it. It is clear that the makers of  this news want to turn people's attention away from the real source and causes,  which is their oppression against the Lebanese people and, at the same time, im-  plement the harsh policies of the superpowers against the Islamic Republic of Iran.  The reign of lies over the truth by some of the mass media is so great that they may  even claim that the Islamic Republic of Iran was the cause of periodical explosion  upon the sun or the rising of Spartacus against the oppression of the Roman Empire.  In such a world, it is the grave responsibility of all of theThirdWorld countries  not to allow the tyranny of the mass media to continue in this way against humanity.
35.11 The Islamic Republic of Iran, while it welcomes scientific and technological  development in various areas and recommends its use in the solving of human and  social problems, believes that one must struggle against the superpowers' misuse of  scientific and technological possibilities which must be used to develop peace,  international understanding, freedom and justice and to solve the problems of human  societies. Serious steps must be taken towards freeing humanity from the domination  of the present news and information media which has come to be a monopoly in the  hands of the superpowers, so that the news media may become an instrument for build-  ing independent, free human beings of the highest calibre.
35.12 Because of the transmuted image of the human being held by the superpowers,  even science and technology themselves have been held captive in the prisons of  their abased goals. This means that, while Socrates, Avicenna and Galileo broke  through the barriers of the unknown as they searched for the truth, today scientific  and technological issues and the direction of the movement of science are dictated  by the air force, naval forces and intelligence organizations. The delirious mili-  tary expenditures in the areas of research and the building of complicated war ma-  chinery is the best proof of this fact.
35.13 Based upon our firm faith and belief in the responsibility and duties of  humanity and the exalted status which humanity enjoys, we believe that science and  technology should not be an instrument in the hands of the covetous, coercive forces  any further. The mission of Unesco is to show sufficient seriousness in changing  the developments of science so that they may move towards serving and helping hu-  manity. If Unesco does not do this, can we expect NATO and the Warsaw Pact to do  so? It is our belief that the misuse of science and technology will continue as  long as the results of the narrow view of the big powers towards the development of  science and technology be limited exclusively to the reformation of methods and  means, thereby forgetting the real goals and principles.
35.14 In our opinion, the best criteria to evaluate the priorities of science and  technology is to determine the authentic needs of society. These authentic needs  are rooted in the divinely created nature of human beings and reflected in the cul-  ture of society. It is these authentic roots which must give direction to science.  We suggest that Unesco seriously apply itself towards breaking the commercial and  exclusive atmosphere which rules over science and technology. Unesco, by estab-  lishing centres for the exchange of scientific information in the held-back and  developing countries, can extend science to serve today's deprived humanity better  and still help in the shaping of the real concept of human beings in the world. It  can also be effective in the establishing of centres for the exchange of educational  experience, especially in the areas of technical and vocational training.
35.15 The second issue relates to the cultural colonialization of nations which  results from the transmuted image of human beings held by the superpowers. The cul-  ture of every nation is a basic factor in the image that each nation has of itself  and of the world which surrounds it. Thus it is the basis for the independent,  free, exalted movement of that nation. In our opinion, culture embodies the real  personality of a nation. Our belief is that the world was not created in absurdity  and that all human beings, on the basis of their monotheistic divine-given nature,  were created to be the servants of God and the slaves of nothing other than God.  As the Holy Koran says, '(Establish) the Divine Nature of God upon which He orig-  inated the divine nature of humanity. There is no changing God's Creation.' (30:30)
35.16 Genuine cultural roots stem from the original or primordial nature of human  beings. All human beings, in spite of their external differences, contain a common,  divine and authentic nature. This is a primordial factor which gives unity to human  culture and it is drawn from a general world concept. The multiplicity and plu-  rality which is seen in cultures is not because of the multiplicity of sources.  Rather, the reverse is true. It shows their commonality.
35.17 The powers which dominate and wish to dominate have also realized that, in  order to free human beings from captivity, to begin with their state of firmness,
13    perseverance and freedom must be changed into a state of submission based upon root-  lessness and ingenuity. Towards this aim, the genuine culture of people must be  taken away from them. In its place, a valueless product must be imposed upon them  which lacks virtue and is readily deceived by outer forms. This cultural diminution  is one of the most well-known methods and tactics used by world colonialism. The  powerful leaders of the world in countries which were forced under yokes - like  countries which have been colonialized - in a clear way, try, to the extent possible,  to transmute the language, culture, education and even the food and eating habits of  thepeopleof that country and replace them with their own false forms. Whenever  their military presence is not externally felt it is established in an exact way by  means of programmes of mercenary governments. It is clear that along the way they  benefit in the best way possible from scientific and technological developments  and systems of communications of the mass media and others possibilities.
35.18 Unfortunately, prior to technology giving power to strengthen the culture of  developing countries, it has given colonial countries the power to impose a culture.  Inhuman policies take effect in various ways in diminishing the culture of today in  multiple societies of humanity. The best manifestations of these clear aggressions  against the cultures of nations are to be found in three areas: education, the  situation of women in society and consumerism.
35.19 Before the glorious Islamic Revolution, Iran was one of the countries where  a brutal and dominating force ruled over the abased people for over half a century  in the form of the Shah. An Iran which had been the cradle of science and cult-Ure  was turned into a form whereby all - from primary education to the university level - had to transmute the image of their divinely given nature to shox the bewitching  and intimidating power of those dominating. An Iran which was the base of purity  and piety, changed to become a centre for prostitution. In the name of the freedom  and progress of women, what insults did they not commit against her real rights?  Women, this exalted human being, was retrograded to the level of a product. Finally,  rich and green Iran, which could have and can feed more than 100 million people,  was transformed into a dependent Iran which relied upon foreigners even to meet its  own basic daily food needs.
35.20 What took place in Iran serves as one of the best documents of the crimes of  the superpowers and those who dominate the world. But, with the blessings of the  great Islamic Revolution, Iran today is an Iran which has clearly shown that it can  stay thehandsof any aggressor whether it be in the realms of culture or against  its land. As a result of Islamid precepts, the policy of our educational system  in Iran today is based upon the desire and respect we have for science and culture.  It is directed towards the exalted goals of human beings.
35.21 Supported by such thoughts, the Islamic Republic of Iran, in order to lay  down a correct educational infrastructure, is putting its efforts into studying  the comparisons between today's knowledge and culture and its religious, historic  and climatic conditions. It is moving towards making basic changes in the contents  of educational school books and methods of administering universities with Tslamic  precepts and the real needs of Iranian society. It has taken steps towards the  development, examination and possibility of expansion of higher education in the  country and eliminating unfair discrimination of the past.
35.22 The emphasis of Unesco on the strong relationship of culture, ethics and  education is completely approved by us and because of this, Subprogramme V.I.l is  supported by us. We believe that it is one of the most essential programmes of  Unesco.
35.23 As to the role of women in the Islamic Republic, by returning to their  authentic culture, that very culture of Islam, they have freed themselves from being  toys and means of pleasure and have cast off the chains of captivity of the he-  gemonic culture. Instead, they have become a great support for the Revolution and  social activities. The number of girl students enrolled in schools after the  Islamic Revolution of Iran has significantly increased and this itself results from  the general growth of education in the Islamic Republic of Iran.
35.24 In general, we believe the issues of aggression against and transmutation  of cultures of the abased nations by means of world powers is a tragedy. We believe  that a deep understanding of this problem is among the pressing duties of Unesco,  which must, at least, make efforts towards enlightening the minds of the people of  the world about these issues. For this reason the Islamic Republic of Iran suggests  that, as the first step, a centre be established by Unesco with the participation of  scholars to study and carry out research about the various dimensions, degrees and  methods of cultural colonialization and the ways to prevent and confront them. It  is clear that the Islamic Republic of Iran is not only prepared to put the necessary  possibilities at the disposal of Unesco, but all of the valuable experience which it  has had in this area will also be made available. Also, as we suggested at the  Second World Conference on Cultural Policies held in Mexico, Unesco should allocate
770    one year for a special study of the methods andmeanswhereby the arrogant can domi-  nate over the culture of the deprived.
35.25 The third issue, which is the last one we will mention here, is about the  consequences of the ugly image which the dominating powers of the world have of  human beings and is related to their military domination over deprived peoples. In  summary fashion, we previously indicated how science and technology and the means  of communication have been placed in the hands of the coercive forces of the world,  and in particular, the superpowers. We wish to indicate the unjust transactions  which are taking place for human beings but first we wish to remind you of another  dimension. Whenever the superpowers and coercive forces of the worlü realize that  an awakened nucleus exists among the deprived nations which confronts foreign domi-  nation and which is not done away with by means of poisonous propaganda and con-  spiracies, etc., they shamelessly and impudently turn to physical annihilation, that  is murder, extermination and suppression of human beings.
35.26 Respected delegates, Mr Director-General, what I am referring to is not  ancient history. It is not the forecasts of science. Rather, it is a surge which  is at present, at this very moment, taking place in various parts of the world.  Why are the people of Lebanon being massacred? Because they have not surrendered  to foreign domination and savage aggression. When intrigues and conspiracies do  not take hold, then people must be trampled under the executioner's boots. Lebanon  is being punished because the majority of the people of that country desire their  authentic and independent identity to remain. Thus the crimes against Lebanon must  continue, not only through usurping Israel but also through the coercive forces of  the world who are collectively the real mother of this corrupted germ.
35.27 Why are the brave people of Palestine treated in this way? Because this is  but another example of the struggle against the cultural aggression of a military  power. How sad that time does not permit me to present even a few examples of the  dimensions of these crimes in Dar Yasin, Sabra, Shatila, etc. At any rate when the  occupiers of Palestine were faced by a solid mountain of strong people with a genu-  ine and Islamic culture, it did not challenge this firm confrontation, but began  with massacre, crimes and physical extermination of these exalted human beings.  The unfortunate thing is that the conscience of the world remains silent in this  affair.
35.28 Living examples in these areas are so prevalent that I do not even intend  to count them, But the main point is that the direct military aggressions of the  superpowers in all parts of the world are, in principle, based upon the transmuted  image of human beings in the distorted brains of the leaders of those countries.  This image is activated with all of their propaganda forces and powers.
35.29 How can Unesco remain indifferent to this issue? While we support the prin-  cipal positions of Unesco, in particular in this area and the steps Unesco has taken,  we must think further about this. We must speak to each other without barriers,  For the sake of human beings and for the sake of cultures of ancient nations and  peoples, we must speak truthfully to one another. We worry about Unesco's future,  for if we are not prepared to object to aggression, insults and crimes against  human beings, we should at least perform a significant act. We are surprised how  this usurping, aggressive regime which has treated the resolutions approved by  Unesco with disrespect and which has even prohibited the visit of a delegation to  be sent from Unesco to see the assaults and cultural aggressions has remained in  this Organization.
35.30 The Islamic Republic of Iran, due to its faith in the exalted position of  human beings and respect for the rights of nations, believes that the destiny of  every nation must be left in the hands of that nation to determine. Based upon  this belief, we condemn any kind of interference in the affairs of another country  whether it be by means of a coup d'état or military occupation, and we do not  approve any justification for the use of one of the above two methods to explain  the other.
35.31 It is our opinion that Unesco must turn to the issues of the people. It  must be the Unesco of people and of governments and not just governments. Unesco  must basically orient its planning and future programmes towards the people, and,  in particular, the people who have been enslaved. It should rest assured that  finally it is the people who will confront political games, conspiracies and the  crimes committed on behalf of the despotic governments of the world.
35.32 We condemn any threats to Unesco and we announce that this is not the first  time that international organizations like Unesco, because of their defence of  human rights, freedom and the cultures of Third World countries, have been threat-  ened by the superpowers to cut off their financial power to Unesco. We sense that  the countries of the Third World are prepared to maintain Unesco in the face of  these threats in order to preserve the valuable principles upon which Unesco is  based, and this will make up for the cutting-off of this kind of help.
35.33 In conclusion, I feel that it is necessary to thank those responsible per-  sons at Unesco and, in particular, the Director-General, for all their efforts  towards compiling the biennial budget and the programmes for the next two years.  Even though the opinions of the Islamic Republic of Iran on the suggested programmes  will be indicated in the various commissions, it is necessary to say here that we  believe that the guarantor of success of Unesco in the future years will be its  movement towards the axis of the primordial nature of human beings, evaluating it  and directing activities towards thepointswhich have been mentioned above. Peace  and the mercy of God be upon you.
(36.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I thank the head of the delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
(36.2) I now call on H.E. Mr Alhaji N'jai, Minister of Education, Youth, Sports and  Culture and head of the Gambian delegation.
37.1 Mr N'JAI (The Gambia):  gentlemen, in the name of our Head of State, Alhaji Sir Dawda Kairaba Jawara, the  Government and people of the Gambia, I bring you warmest fraternal greetings and  best wishes for a very successful twenty-second session of the General Conference.
37.2 May I, Mr President, on behalf of my delegation, congratulate you most  heartily on your election to the coveted office of President of the General Confer-  ence, a position you undoubtedly deserve by virtue of such a distinguished career.  Be assured of my delegation's fullest support in your arduous task, and of our  faith in your ability to execute your duties responsibly.
37.3 Our gratitude is, in the same manner, extended to the outgoing President  of the General Conference, the ex-Chairman of the Executive BGard, the Executive  Board and all statutory and other committees, councils and institutions for their  invaluable services to this Organization during the triennium being concluded.
37.4 May I, Mr President, also seize this opportunity to express our satisfaction  and infinite delight at the manner in which the Secretariat, under the exemplary  leadership of the Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, prepared the way for  the smooth take-off of the twenty-second session of the General Conference, and no  less for the general conduct of this Conference. The degree of efficiency and dedi-  cation was amply reflected in the constant flow of pertinent information on the  Organization's activities and the timely despatch of documents for this Conference.  I am confident that with such a splendid performance by the Secretariat, the faith  of Member States in the Organization can only be further strengthened. I also con-  gratulate you, Mr Director-General, on your pellucid and thought-provoking report,  which no doubt stems from a profound and emphatic understanding of the problems of  the world and their root causes.  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and
37.5 Mr President, our global problems increase at an astounding rate. Our world  is plagued by, inter alia, greed, inequality, injustice, prejudice, intolerance,  ignorance, wars and threats of war. In the Third World in particulsr, we are faced  with the problem of a paucity of human resources and a lack of the means to exploit  our environments fully but pruderrtly. We are saddled with population explosions,  poverty, disease, the inadequacy of social services, the inappropriateness and lack  of infrastructures, illiteracy and the inaccessibility to knowledge and the fruits  thereof, especially in the areas of science and technology.
37.6 This sombre picture of continual strife and the possibility of a holocaust,  the ceaseless thwarting of man's dignity, the denial of peace, justice and well-  being could only portend ill for the future. But we need not be disheartened, for  fortunately man is endowed with free will, and therefore the power to choose. The  nations of the world must commit themselves collectively to the continued survival  and progress of the human race or, alternatively, opt for the bizarre consequencies  of imminent extinction. I am certain it is our collective wish to eschew the latter  option, for one can say that the essence of existence is self-preservation and that  the only means for the accomplishment of this objective is collective responsibility  through our earnest endeavours. We must demonstrate this basic fact of existence  by ongoing dialogue and collaboration in every sphere of human activity. We mus-t  end the arms race and divert our scarce global resources towards more positive goals
772    like those enshrined in the Constitution of Unesco, which gives us another ray of  hope for the future of mankind. For even in these times of turbulence, Unesco  remains demonstrably aware of its responsibility and clings tenaciously to its  noble goals of strengthening peace and security and the enhancing of human welfare.
37.7 Mr President, having examined the programmes proposed for the forthcoming  biennium, we note with gratitude their compatibility with the Medium-Term Plan.  We have in the proposed programmes all that is required to achieve positive results.  The five tasks and fourteen related major programmes within the framework of the  Medium-Term Plan are logically derived from Unesco's competent analysis of the  world's problems and take account of the need to respect universality on the one  hand and diversity on the other, to promote interdependence and to correct the in-  appropriate use of both human and material resources. We endorse the programme of  work and budgetary proposals and are pleased to observe that, in spite of many  constraints like cuts in the budget, manpower shortage, and the inadequacy of physi-  cal facilities, the Director-General remains undaunted in his determination to ful-  fil the ideals of this reputable Organization. For our part, we assure him that we  are prepared to do all we can to enable him to implement these programmes in the  next biennium.
37.8 The relevance of the fourteen major programmes is attested to by the simi-  larity of these programmes to the present priorities of our Government in our  current Five-Year Development Plan. Education for all, communication in the ser-  vice of man, manpower training, the application of science for development, espe-  cially as regards the use of technology for the benefit of man, the preservation  of cultural artefacts and values, the complete elimination of apartheid, racism,  prejudice and intolerance from our world, the assurance of human rights and the  rights of peoples, especially women, youth, and the handicapped, and the pursuit  of international understanding and peace are all among our current concerns. The  main purpose of our development programmes, like those of Unesco, is to alleviate  the many ills with which we are beset.
37.9 Our Government has long recognized education as a key to development. That  is why we continue to allocate the largest proportion of our annual budget to the  educational sector. While enrolment at the primary level continues to rise rapidly  as a result of more schools being built both by Government and local communities,  expansion in the secondary sector has been relatively moderate. This of course has  created a bottleneck in the transition from the primary to the secondary sector and  consequently exacerbates the drop-out problem and tends to increase the numbers of  t.hose relapsing into illiteracy. In this connection, Mr President, our Government  has established a Non-Formal Education Service to provide educational opportunities  for adults and out-of-school youth. This subsector occupies a central role in our  development efforts. We realize that human knowledge and skills are vital in estab-  lishing development projects, and we are therefore committed to the democratization  of education by this two-prong approach, formal and non-formal education. The Non-  Formal Education Service is also intended to provide work-oriented continuing edu-  cation to cater for the large number of our school leavers who cannot find places  in secondary schools. Hence, a good deal of assistance in the training of personnel  and in the provision of resources for both the formal and non-formal subsectors will  be needed.
37.10 With the help of this laudable Organization we have already established the  Curriculum Development Centre which is doing well with the continue6 assistance of  Unesco. The setting up of the Book Production and Material Resources Unit, again  with the help of both Unesco and its sister organization UNICEF, and the establish-  ment of the Educational Broadcasting Service with the generous assistance of Unesco  are other examples of our Government's consistent pursuit of the objective of Major.  Programme II - Education for all. The recent Unesco-sponsored multidisciplinary  mission to The Gambia in connection with the reform of primary education, the elim-  ination of illiteracy and the universalization of education and with a view to the  preparation of a regional programme for Africa promises a welcome intensificaticn  of our efforts in these areas, and we are ready to participate in the programmes  concerned.
37.11 The pursuit of human rights and the rights of peoples as envisaged in Major  Programmes II and XII provides yet another opportunity for collaboration between  the Gambian Government and Unesco. Mr President, our country's record in the area  of human rights is universally recognized to the extent that the Banjul Charter,  which is the African Charter on human and peoples' rights, is named after the capi-  tal of my country, Banjul. But what is perhaps less known is our record in the  pursuit of peoples' rights. Thus, our setting up of a Women's Council with an  executive arm - the Women's Bureau - within the President's Office, the institution  of the President's award scheme for youth, the biennial observance of youth week,  the construction of a multi-purpose stadium and the existence of schools for the  handicapped all testify to our Government's efforts to uphold the rights of peoples.  We therefore look forward to the International Youth Year and assure this Organiz-  ation of our observance of the year in 1985.
37.12 Our Government's firm commitment to the pursuit of the objectives of many  Of Unesco's major programmes - e.g. Major Programme II, 'Education for all'; Major  Programme III, 'Communication in the service of man'; Major Programme V, 'Education,  training and society', as is borne out by our vccational and technical training  centres in the rural areas and by our adult education programmes; Major Programme  XI, 'Culture and the future', as is reflected in our local radio programmes on cul-  ture, our national cultural festivals, our renowned cultural troupe and the estab-  lishment of both the National Museum and the Relics and Monuments Commission -  provide clear testimony of the similarity between the objectives of the Gambian  Government and those of Unesco.
37.13 Mr President, in spite of all our efforts to grapple with the many problems  with which we are faced, a good many difficulties still seem intractable because of  the lack of trained manpower and financial and material resources. That is why,  Mr President, we welcome and look forward with ardent hope not only to the regional  programmes proposed, but also to programmes with an international dimension like  the International Programme for the Development of Communication, the International  Hydrological Programme, Man and the Biosphere and the activities of the Inter-  governmental Oceanographic Commission.
37.14 And now, Mr President, it is my profound pleasure to report to this august  assembly that The Gambia has this year established a National Commission for Unesco,  thereby indicating our commitment to the noble objectives of the Organization. The  Commission will need a good deal of help in its present nascent state to enable it  to function more efficiently.
37.15 Finally, Mr President, I shoulà like to emphasize that we are trustees of  the planet Earth, and that we have not inherited the earth from our parents - we  have merely borrowed it from our children. We must therefore utilize its re-  sources frugally and, more so, wisely. Instead of piling up weapons of mass de-  struction and subjecting the human race to a constant state of fear and anxiety,  let us exert our efforts and utilize our limited resources to combat man's greatest  enemies, namely ignorance, poverty, hunger, and disease. It is only by such means  that we can ever hope to resolve our global problems. We must here recall and heed  the immortal words of that great metaphysical poet, John Donne: 'No man is an  island unto himself...Do not ask for whom the bell tolls, It tolls for thee'.  This is indeed an ever present reminder of the commonality of our fate, and of the  bonds that bind mankind. Mr President, in the name of humanity let the strong help  the weak, let the wealthy help the poor, let those who know help those who do not  know, and let the fortunate help the less fortunate. Thank you.
(38.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  congratulations to me.
(38.2) I now call on H.E. Mr Isaac Newton Ojok, Minister of Education and head of the  Ugandan delegation.  I thank the head of the Gambian delegation. I also thank him for his
39.1 Mr OJOK (Uganda) :  gratulate you on your election to the Presidency o€ this session of the General  Conference. You certainly merit this post, considering your very rich background.  My delegation wishes to assure you of its respect and co-operation in the exercise  of your responsibility for conducting the Conference to a successful conclusion.
39.2 Permit ne, further, to congratulate you, Mr Director-General, and your  staff, not only for organizing this Conference so well, but also for the exemplary  manner in which you are managing the affairs of this challenging Organization.  Uganda remains ever grateful to you for the assistance we have been receiving from  Unesco through your intervention. Without in any way flattering you, we regard  you, to use the popular phrase in Uganda these days, as 'Our Man'. Please conti-  nue; we are fully behind you.
39.3 Mr President, I bring to you, and to all the participants of this Confe-  rence, greetings and best wishes for the success ofthe Conference from our Presi-  dent, Dr Apolo Milton Obote, and from the Government and people of Uganda.
39.4 I am happy and proud also to be the bearer of good news. We liberated  ourselves in April 1979, from military dictatorship and fascism, with unforgettable  Mr President, fellow participants, permit me first, Mr President, to con-
774    assistance from such friendly countries as Tanzania, Zambia, Mozambique and  Algeria. I wish to place on record before this Conference, Mr President, Uganda's  overwhelming appreciation of this noble assistance. It is thanks to this kind of  assistance, coming as it did from countries which are members of Unesco, that we  are able to be with you once again after nearly a decade of oblivion. This as-  sistance demonstrates one important thing, Mr President. It demonstrates our  commitment, as members of Unesco, to the observance of the objectives for which  the Organization was founded, one of which is to guarantee - for all - access to  education, training, and cultural development, in a free, stable and harmonious  environment.
39.5 Mr President, since liberation, Uganda hac fast recovered. Our economy is  picking up again, due mainly to the moderate policies which our Government is pur-  suing. Our emphasis on increased production, backed by the floating of the  shilling, removal of price controls, increase in prices to producers, and assis-  tance from the International Monetary Fund and other friendly governments and  financial institutions, has earned for us dividends all round. We have met our  quota for the sale of coffee, which is our main foreign exchange earner, and have  succeeded in getting a better quota recently from the International Coffee Organ-  ization, besides winning a seat on that organization's Board. That we have been  able to pass all the examinations of the International Monetary Fund (and this is  no easy task) is not only commendable, but shows quite clearly that, today, we have  a solid platform for recovery in Uganda.
39.6 Mr President, the political scene in Uganda is very reassuring. Our com-  mitment to the practice of a multi-party system of government is genuine. The  system is working. We have restored the rule of law. The judiciary is indepen-  dent. We have also restored freedom of movement, association, expression, con-  science, worship and assembly.
39.7 We are on friendly terms with all our neighbours, indeed with all the  mernbers of this Organization. Thus, contrary to what some people would like you  to believe, Mr President and fellow participants, Uganda's record on human rights  is positive. Today, we chair the United Nations Security Council sessions where  matters concerning respect for, or violation of basic human rights are examined.
39.8 It is against this background, Mr President, that my delegation is attend-  ing this Conference. We have come here so that together we may determine priority  areas of activity for Unesco for the coming years. We have come to place Uganda's  priority needs at the door-step of Unesco. These are reflected in our newly-  revised 1982-1984 recovery programme, which is due to be considered by the consulta-  tive group of donors next February, here. In our effort to recover, we continue  to lay emphasis on increased production in a stable environment. This calls for,  among other things, the systematic development of human resources in order to  produce skilled personnel to man productive sectors; the renovation and expansion  of industries; the development of appropriate technology; the revision of edu-  cational content; the observance of fundamental human rights; and co-operation  with others on a world-wide scale.
39.9 My delegation is therefore extremely pleased and grateful to note that  these objectives have been included in the major programmes and also in the Medium-  Term Plan for 1984-1989. We welcome the budget ceiling proposed by the Director-  General. It is sensible. We call upon all members of this august body to support  it wholeheartedly, because it will benefit us all, indiscriminately. Anything  short of this will only harm the smooth running of Unesco. None of us can recover  on zero growth. Zero growth is no growth at all. We must grow, Mr President.
39.10 Our reaction to the major programmes, and to the activities inscribed in  each of them, is simply this: they are realistic, problem-solving oriented and  innovative. Some of the programmes, no doubt, are more important in certain  situations than others. This is understandable, considering the diverse back-  grounds of Member States. We urge the Director-General, therefore, to exercise  great restraint and flexibility in the utilization of funds for these programmes,  so that individual Member States can derive practical benefits during the process  of implementation.
39.11 Major Programme I, 'Reflection on world problems and future-oriented  studies', is significant if we are to preserve peace in the world, and therefore  to develop. Without peace, Mr President, we would not be holding this Conference.  However much we may know about some of the causes of world problems, chief among  which are ignorance, greed and oppression, there are still a lot of untapped areas  to be explored. This programme, if properly carried out, should consequently en-  able us to reduce warmongering and self-aggrandisement throughout the world.  Member States from the more developed parts of the world should welcome it whole-  heartedly, for obvious reasons.
39.12 Uganda attaches the greatest significance to Major Programme II, 'Education  for all', for it is the pivot round which all the other major programmes under con-  sideration revolve. Education is central to balanced development, the world over.  Because of this truism, my Government has taken positive steps to democratize the  process of education. For instance, education now ranks second after agriculture  in the national budget. This according of priority has enabled my Government to  meet 50 per cent of primary education for every child; 65 per cent for post-primary  boarding institutions and 75 per cent for day post-primary boarding institutions.  My Government now fully pays for the education of all the orphans and widows; all  these steps reflect the effort to democratize and universalize education.
39.13 Many parents who were unable to finance the education of their children  in primary and post-primary institutions are now able to-do so because of this  relief measure. In expanding opportunities for formal education in this way, my  Government has also taken steps to strengthen the curriculum by introducing the  study of agriculture, for agriculture is the mainstay of our economy. This is  offered within the framework of basic education integrated into rural development,  so that students can translate what is taught into practical benefits. We have  also taken steps to strengthen science and technical education by doubling tech-  nical schools and institutes and by the training of science teachers and  technicians.
39.14 Major Programmes V, VI and IX are, therefore, most relevant in that we  stand to benefit, especially from the training and research components. We call  upon Unesco to assist us, and other less developed countries, in demystifying  science and technology in our society. What is urgently needed, is the strength-  ening of regional training and research institutes for science and technology to  be able to do more for us, and the development of production units in individual  member countries.
39.15 Mr President, educaticn for all is not Utopian. We must all be committed  to its realization. My Government is doing just that. Apart from catering for  the education of youths in schools, colleges, and at the University, it has drawn  up plans to revamp educational programmes for adults, including women's education.  Shortly, functional literacy programmes will re-open at existing community centres,  and an intensive campaign against illiteracy is in the offing. Adults in govern-  ment jobs, industries and the private sector will begin to learn as they earn when  the university centre for continuing education is revamped and strengthened for  the purpose, including other lower level training institutions such as district  farm institutes and the veterinary schools. These measures are to be strengthened  further through the establishment of an educational review commission, the findings  of which will be utilized in reforming and strengthening the entire educational  system. It is for this reason that we welcome Unesco's concern for a systematic  formulation and application of education pjlicies. We call on Unesco for the  material and technical assistance without q5ich cur efforts to extend education to  all would be frustrated. My deleqation has prepared project documents in this  regard, for the Organization's reference and action.
39.16 Mr President, suffice it to say that Uganda is richly endowed with natural  resources and cultural heritage, the proper utilization and preservation of which  is the responsibility of all of us. My Government therefore welcomes Unesco's  interest in, and programme for the preservation of the cultural heritage. A nation  without a culture is as good as dead. Major Programme III, 'Communication in the  service of man', is one sure way by which the culture of a people can be trans-  mitted from one generation to another and consequently preserved. My Government  has re-introduced cultural activities, such as dancing, popularly known as 'the  heart-beat of Africa', games, sport, and theatrical performances, so that our  children may grow with a firm root.
39.17 Through the use of the media, we have promoted positive cultural values,  and Uganda is once again a learning society. Our game parks, once reputed for  attracting tourists from all over the world, are again filled with different  species, including white rhinos. Incidentally, even these were forced to run into  exile in Zaire, during military rule. They have now returned home after liber-  ation, to form a significant component of our cultural heritage. We extend an  open invitation to all of you to come to Uganda to witness for yourselves this  phenomenon.
39.18 To conclude, Mr President, my delegation has only one plea to make. Let  us all reaffirm our faith in Unesco. With faith, Unesco is bound to discharge its  duty to our satisfaction, I reaffirm my Government!s Faith in this body. Tt is  our additional platform for recovery. Any one Member State wishing to rock this  boat will sink with us all. Uganda, this Pearl of Africa, should therefore, like  others, be allowed to rise and shine again, through international co-operation  such as this. I say all these things, for Gcid and my Country.
39.19 Thank you, Mr President. 13
(40. i) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  congratulationc.
(40.2) I would like to remind all the delegates that we have two speakers to go. I now  call on the first speaker, H.E. Dr Mutumbuka, Minister of Education and Culture and head  of the delegation of Zimbabwe.  I thank the head of the Ugandan delegation for his remarks as well as for his
41.1 Mr MUTUMBUXA (Zimbabwe) :  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me on behalf of the Zimbabwe delegation  to congratulate you on your election to the Presidency of this session of the  General Conference, I am confident that your skill and experience will enable us  to complete the important tasks that have brought us together in an atmosphere of  mutual respect and co-operation.
41.2 Mr President, allow me also to congratulate the Director-General and his  staff for the enormous amount of work which they have accomplished in the prep-  aration of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985, andofthe Second Medium-  Term Plan. May I also extend my country's sincere gratitude to the members of the  Executive Board for the work they have done. For its part, the Zimbabwe delegation  will do all in its power to ensure the successful conclusion of our Conference.
41.3 Mr President, distinguished delegates, we wish to note with great appreci-  ation the success with which the Director-General and the Secretariat have stream-  lined the proposed budget in order to achieve the very tight constraints which we  all recommended to him at the fourth extraordinary session last year. Allow me,  however, to comment on some of the assumptions surrounding the budgetary constraints  which our Organization faces. We wish to place discussions of the overall buciget  ceiling for the 1984-1985 biennium very high on the list of priorities for our  debate because we are genuinely fearful that the future effectiveness of Unesco  could be undermined by any attempt at reducing its function and major role in the  world to simplistic financial factors.
41.4 We are being persuaded to consider seriously the prospect of a zero real  growth rate in the budget, which would result in a overall budget ceiling for the  coming biennium of some 360 million dollars, as opposed to the original ceiling  of 433 million dollars submitted by the Secretariat. I must commend the Director-  General on having provided us with three clear budget alternatives. We believe,  Mr President, that the proponents of a further cut in the budget must abandon their  contention, because we are fully convinced that the minimal difference between the  Director-General's final submission and the proposed zero growth constitutes no  issue for further debate.
41.5 From where we stand as a country that has benefited enormously from the  work of Unesco, we are compelled to add our voice in support of the activities of  this Organization. It is an indisputable fact, Mr President, that many countries,  particularly the developing countries, have benefited immensely from the function  and work of Unesco. Furthermore, the proposed büdget ceiling put forward by Unesco  was designed to innovate the functions of the Organization in various sectors, and  in particular to consolidate its activities among developing countries.
41.6 Mr President, I submit that any further cut in the budget is tantamount to  an attempt by the rich and powerful nations to use their power, collectively or  individually, to hold the poor and weak countries to ransom over the work of Unesco.
41.7 In the establishment of a new international economic order and endogenous  development, Zimbabwe endorses the ongoing debate and search for a more equitable  distribution of world resources. This can be achieved through various studies and  other initiatives within the framework of 'North-South' co-operation. I wish to  assure you that my country is fully committed to the Lagos Plan of Action, and is  paying particular attention to the World Bank Report on development strategies for  an accelerated economic growth rate in Africa in the eighties. In pursuance of  these objectives, we are convinced that the achievement of endogenous development  can only be attained through the collective commitment of the whole international  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,
777    community. A just economic order can only be brought about by the reorientation  of our present dependence economies and by the adoption of man-centred redistribu-  tion of world resources in a way that benefits all mankind.
41.8 The role of Unesco in the promotion of science and technology in the ser-  vice of the human race is important as we all witness and acknowledge the signifi-  cant progress which developing countries have made in the assimilation of advanced  technology in their national development projects. I believe that all Member  States will agree with me that this remarkable attainment can surely be attributed  to Unesco's participation and assistance in individual countries' programmes.  Special mention should be made here of Unesco's efforts to establish information  networks on new and renewable sources of energy.
41.9 Those of us in Southern Africa who are in the grip of a protracted drought  wish to make a special request for Unesco to pay some attention to the development  of water resources in those regions which face a similar plight.
41.10 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Zimbabwe is deeply concerned that the  wholesale transfer of so-called appropriate technology, if not checked, could  undermine the efforts by the developing states to initiate their own technology.  The less developed countries, surely, should not become the dumping grounds of the  developed nations.
41.11 Mr President, one of the objectives of thisconference is to promote effec-  tive communication and understanding. The world today has experienced that the  monopoly on communication and information control by developed countries is inimi-  cal to the reduction of North-South tensions, because by virtue of this monopoly  the developed States deliberately disseminate negative and distorted information  about events in developing countries. The problem in communication at the inter-  national level is that the information flow is predominantly one-way, out from the  industrialized countries to the less developed States. This situation inevitably  leads to the most powerful media wishing to impose their own political, ideological,  social or cultural biases. Zimbabwe believes, Mr President, that plans must be  introduced to promote greater understanding of the world flow of information, and  that strategies must be formulated to achieve a more equitable two-way flow of in-  formation. For this reason, we support the establishment of co-operative arrange-  ments for news-polling and the further international exchange of broadcast pro-  grammes, feature and photo services.
41.12 What is disturbing is that when Third World countries try to correct the  distorted images depicted by the so-called 'advanced' news agencies, the attempts  are always taken as threats to the free flow of information.
41.13 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it must be stressed that developing  countries like Zimbabwe cannot ignore the realities of their own situation. For  instance, it is internationally known that our Southern African subregion is domi-  nated by the warmongering racist regime of South Africa, which continually per-  petrates acts of sabotage and aggression against the neighbouring Frontline States.  The apartheid regime has relentlessly pursued a policy of destabilization against  Frontline States, particularly in Angola, Lesotho, Mozambique, Zambia and Zimbabwe,  by its direct support for banditry elements in these countries. The apartheid  regime occupies part of the territory of Angola and arrogantly continues its illegal  occupation of Namibia in blatant violation of the Charter of the United Nations.
41.14 I wish to state in unequivocal terms that South Africa poses the greatest  threat to world peace by its continued and illegal occupation of Namibia, thereby  delaying the sovereign independence of this territory, despite resolution 435 of  the United Nations. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on the whole international com-  munity to condemn the attitude and tactics of South Africa. I want to emphasize  that it is Zimbabwe's fervent hope that those powers which continue to support  apartheid and racism will realize the consequences of South Africa's flagrant  violation of human rights and its threat to international peace.
41.15 Mr President, Zimbabwe has made significant advances in the democratization  of education. Some of you may be aware that at independence, over three years ago,  we inherited a segregated system of education which left millions of our youth out  of school and illiterate.
41.16 Since the attainment of national independence, enrolment in our schools  has rocketed from 830,000 to over 2.5 million pupils. Primary school education,  which lasts seven years, has been made free and compulsory. There has also been  phenomenal expansion at every level of the education system.
41.17 In July this year, we launched a national literacy campaign, and it is our  sincere hope that illiteracy will have been eliminated from our country by the turn  of the century. For, as President Mitterrand said at the official opening of our    Conference on 25 October, we believe that an illiterate person is like a blind  person and cannot participate effectively in the national economy or lead a full  life. Education is therefore considered as a basic human right to which all  Zimbabwean children, irrespective of the social status of their parents, are  entitled.
41.18 Democratization and development in the provision of education for all have  not been limited to quantitative expansion. We have also made significant progress  in the qualitative improvement of our education system. The implementation of  life-long education for the nation has placed greater responsibility on our people  to be fully involved in the construction and management of schools, as well as in  the determination of the policy which will direct our education in the future.  Construction projects, education with production, agricultural extension services,  health education campaigns for all, worker education and participation in industry  and commerce - all these are linked to the greater role that education must play  in the transformation of our country into a democratic socialist State.
41.19 Mr President, concerning Major Programme II, 'Education for all', I wish to  reiterate that Zimbabwe has confidence in the programmes drawn up by the Director-  General, and hopes that these programmes will assume greater importance in view of  the fact that it is through Unesco's work in the field of education, taken in its  broadest sense, that the Organization will be able to contribute to the development  of all nations. We also fully support the implementation of the resolutions  adopted at the Conference of Ministers of Education and Those Responsible for Econ-  omic Planning in Africa (MINEDAF IV) held in Harare - the capital city of our  country - in June 1982. Among other requests, we ask for the immediate establish-  ment of a subregional office of education in Harare to serve the Southern African  region.
41.20 Mr President, distinguished delegates, allow me to comment on Major Pro-  gramme XI, 'Culture and the future'. Zimbabwe recognizes the equality of cultures  and the right of nations to cultural identity. I wish to state that our Government  has taken full advantage of the services and assistance provided by Unesco and other  international agencies. Our participation in the 1982 World Conference on Cultural  Policies (MONDIACULT) is evidence of our determination to achieve cultural rehabili-  tation. My delegation supports all efforts to promote international co-operation as  a basis of promoting better understanding among all nations. However, we wish to  register our concern at the infiltration of imperialistic ideas, attitudes and  propaganda which hinder and distort the sound development of our national cultures.  We urge Unesco to take steps and means which Wou16 help to check these tendencies,  which distort history and obscure the cultures of other nations. In this connec-  tion, I would like to draw the attention to the conclusions of the First Meeting of  Ministers of Education and Culture of Non-Aligned and Other Developing Countries,  recently held in Pyongyand, the capital city of the Democratic People's Republic of  Korea.
41.21 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my delegation supports Unesco's efforts  to protect and preserve cultural property against piracy and plunder, and vigorously  calls for the repatriation of cultural assets stolen from developing countries  during the colonial era. All those nations that adamantly refuse under various  pretexts to return to their home countries the cultural properties they plundered  must be denounced. I also urge Unesco to examine more urgently ways of bringing  to the awareness of developing nations the importance of ratifying the conventions  aimed at protecting intellectual works of art. In addition, our Government supports  Unesco's activities aimed at expanding regional cultural centres, such as the  establishment of the Centre for Bantu civilization in Libreville, Gabon.
41.22 Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express personal  gratitude to the Director-General for the urgency with which he handled our request  for the restoration work that has been carried out at the Great Zimbabwe. We are  grateful for the expertise provided to protect this most important historical monu-  ment in Africa South of the Sahara, a relic indeed of the greatest achievements of  Bantu civilization.
41.23 Thank you, Mr President.
(42.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  also thank him for his congratulations to me.
(42.2) I call on the last speaker, Mr Blokh, representative of International PEN.  I thank the head of the delegation of Zimbabwe for his comprehensive remarks. I
43.1 M. BLOKH (Fédération PEN) :  moi que de représenter parmi vous la littérature mondiale et la Fédération PEN  qui en est l'organisation. I1 m'appartient de vous dire certaines au moins des  raisons pour lesquelles la littérature devrait être non pas ce qu'elle est encore - à savoir une parente pauvre au sein de l'Unesco - mais bien un centre de vos  activités et de vos intérêts. "Honneur des hommes, saint langage, discours pro-  phétique et paré", le génie de Valéry dit ce qu'il y a à dire en ces quelques mots.  Mieux, il démontre par l'acte, non pas seulement la valeur du langage, mais ercore  qu'il appartient à la poésie d'en être le gardien. Saint langage, en vérité, et  vous m'en serez tous témoins puisque c'est par lui, par lui seul qu'on peut espé-  rer substituer aux conflits, au chaos et au vacarme des armes, échanges, communi-  cation, coopération. Saint langage encore, puisque c'est lui qui va décrire et  conserver l'immense et douloureuse expérience que vous nommez culture. Si l'on  brise enfin les épées, alors les hommes se retrouveront frères dans le langage,  dans la parole et par la plume !
43.2 C'est cette plume que mon organisation internationale, vieille de soixante  ans, qui a survécu à deux guerres mondiales, porte, toujours aussi jeune, à son  chapeau d'où le mot Pen (plume) de son nom. Elle compte parmi ses membres plus de
8.000 écrivains, poètes, nouvellistes, essayistes, groupés dans 83 centres sur les  cinq continents. Chacun s'efforce de garder aux mots leur sens et leur vie. Leur  sens, parce qu'ils demeurent l'étalon-or de tous les échanges humains et qu'ils en  garantissent la qualité, l'équité, la diversité, l'intimité. Leur vie, pour que ce  trésor sans cesse renouvelé permette non pas seulement au passé de survivre, mais  à l'avenir d'apparaître, pour que le discours des hommes et celui des générations,  prophétique et paré, se poursuivre sans fin ni cesse.
43.3 On ne saurait trop louer le Directeur général d'avoir associé comme il l'a  fait dans son programme la culture à l'avenir. Mais qui dit avenir dit création.  Car c'est la création et elle seule qui fait qu'hier n'est pas aujourd'hui et que  demain sera autre encore. I1 serait inqrat de rie pas reconnaître l'effort qui a été  fait en faveur de la création, et en particulier en faveur de la création artis-  tique, dans le programme qui vous est soumis. Mais il faut bien reconnaître que ia  créatioc, et singulièrement la création artistique, est loin d'occuper la place  centrale qui lui revient, qu'elle ne correspond encore et toujours, elle, la clé de  l'avenir, qu'à un pourcentage infime des ressources et des activités de l'organisa-  tion. Mais de toutes les disciplines créatrices, c'est la littérature qui demeure  la plus défavorisée. Elle et son organisation, la Fédération PEN.
43.4 Ce n'est pas faute d'avoir fait nos preuves. Nous ne remonterons pas au  déluge, mais seulement à janvier de cette année 1963, pour démontrer non seule-  ment l'intensité de nos activités, leur qualité intellectuelle, mais aussi combien  elles sont dans le droit fil des idéaux et des préoccupations de l'Unesco. En ce  mois de janvier, avec votre aide et celle de l'ICA, nous avons réuni à Dakar les  écrivains d'une quinzaine de pays africains francophones et anglophones auxquels  étaient associés une quinzaine d'écrivains venus de nos centres d'Europe, d'Amé-  rique et d'Asie. Quand je vous aurai dit que le grand poète-président Léopold  Senghor a présidé en personne toutes nos séances, j'aurai, je crois, suffisamment  établi le niveau auquel cette réunion se situait. I1 s'agissait de reprendre l'an-  cienne préoccupation si profonde et légitime de l'Unesco qui a trait à la tradi-  tion orale, tradition essentielle pour l'affermissement de l'identité culturelle  aussi bien que pour l'étude des cultures. La reprendre, sans doute, mais sous  l'angle qui nous concerne directement, à savoir comme source de créativité, comme  terreau fécond pour nourrir, développer mais aussi africaniser la jeune - mais si  riche et vigoureuse - littérature africaine.
43.5 En mai, nous étions à Venise deux cents écrivains venus d'une cinquantaine  de pays, réunis à la Fondation Cini pour rappeler, comme l'Unesco cherche à le  faire, que Venise, loin d'être un musée, est une source permanente de vie. Aux  pierres justement célèbres de Venise, nous avons opposé les mots de Venise et rap-  pelé leur prestige, rappelé le rôle que cette reine des eaux a joué dans toutes  les littératures, et qu'elle fut une admirable source d'inspiration pour les poètes  et pour les écrivains. Quand j'aurai dit que nous comptions parmi nous MaryMacCarthy,  Sir Stephen Spender, Giorgio Bassani, Mario Soldati, Denis de Rougemont, je pense  que j'en aurai dit assez pour établir la qualité intellectuelle de la rencontre.
43.6 En septembre, nous étions trois cents venus d'une quarantaine de pays, à  Caracas au Venezuela. Et de nouveau, nos thèmes et nos travaux s'inspiraient direc-  tement des idéaux et des préoccupations majeures de l'Unesco puisqu'il s'agissait  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, c'est un grand honneur pour
780    de montrer comment et pourquoi l'admirable littérature de l'Amérique latine cons-  titue un pont entre l'ancien monde et le nouveau, entre le Tiers Monde et l'autre,  entre l'occident et les autres sources de culture et d'inspiration.
43.7 Je pourrais continuer, Monsieur le Président, pour dire l'écho que nous  avons trouvé dans la presse et dans les médias, les services rendus à la vie cultu-  relle et à l'Unesco de ce fait, parler aussi de notre combat pour la liberté d'ex-  pression et pour défendre les écrivains injustement emprisonnés.
43.8 Mais mon temps s'épuise. Un mot encore. I1 est dit : aide-toi, le ciel  t'aidera. Le PEN a fait ce que j'ai dit. Maintenant il vous appelle à l'aide, il  vous demande de rétablir le statut auqUel il a droit, et de lui donner les res-  sources dont il a besoin pour continuer son oeuvre. C'est dans cet espoir, Monsieur  le Président, qu'au nom de ma Fédération et des écrivains que je représente, je  tiens à vous remercier et à remercier le Directeur gén6ral et l'Unesco tout entière.
(44.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  Our thanks to the head of International PEN.
(44.2) We shall conclude this evening's meeting by giving the right of reply to those  requesting it. Before doing so, however, I would like to repeat and emphasize that our  Organization stresses fraternity and peace among the peoples and nations of the world.  On this basis, I hope those who exercise the right of reply will do so with clarity,  building the bridges of goodwill and confidence.
(44.3) I give the floor to the representative of Turkey for the right of reply to the  remarks made by the representative of Cyprus on the 31st of last month.
45.1 M. SAYINSOY (Turquie) :  discuter des degrés de la souveraineté des Etats, ma délégation se voit obligée  de faire une brève intervention pour répondre aux allégations d'un orateur selon  lesquelles 1'Etat fédéré turc de Chypre n'existe pas.
45.2 Comme vous le savez sans aucun doute, il n'existe pas à Chypre, depuis1963,  de gouvernement constitutionnel et légitime représentant les deux partenaires co-  fondateurs, les communautés chypriote turque et chypriote grecque de l'île. Depuis
1974, les deux communautés cofondatrices vivent dans leurs zones respectives et  séparées, avec chacune son administration autonome, et exercent leur souveraineté  sur lesdites zones respectives.
45.3 C'est dans ce contexte que des efforts sont maintenant entrepris afin de  trouver une solution au problème de Chypre, sur la base d'une fédération bicommu-  nautaire et bizonale, par des discussions intercommunautaires, sur un pied d'éga-  lité, sous les auspices du Secrétaire général des Nations Unies. Merci, Monsieur  le Président.  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Bien que l'Unesco ne soit pas le lieu OU
(46.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the representative of Turkey.
(46.2) I give the representative of Cyprus the floor to make clarifications, not to reply
47.1 Mr LEVENTIS (Republic of Cyprus) :  which was accepted by this General Conference, was that the credentials of our  Mr President, the unanimous recommendation of the Credentials Committee,
78 I    delegation, as the representative of Cyprus, should be accepted. It is therefore  out of order for any delegation to question that decision at this time.
47.2 My delegation does not represent any particular community but the Govern-  ment of Cyprus which is recognized by the United Nations, its member governments  and other international organizations. All delegates here, Mr President, are here  to represent their countries and governments, and not particular communities within  their borders.
47.3 Thank you, Mr President.
(48.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I thank the representative of Cyprus.
(48.2) I now give the floor to the delegate of the United States who wishes to exercise  the right of reply with regard to remarks made by Guyana, Mongolia and Syria.
49.1 Mr ROMERO (United States of America) :  not the intention of my delegation to waste the time of this Conference on politi-  cal debates clearly outside Unesco's mandate. But if, despite the explanations  offered by other delegations as well as our own, unfounded allegations continue to  be made, I have no choice but to continue to respond to them.
49.2 I do not know where the delegate of Mongolia was during the interventions  made by various Caribbean states regarding their joint activities in Grenada. Had  he been in this hall, he would have heard how the Governor-General of Grenada re-  quested aid from the organization of Eastern Caribbean States: how the latter, in  accordance with the Treaty's provisions, agreed to provide this aid: and how the  Governments of Jamaica, Barbados and the United States further agreed to the re-  quest of the organization of Eastern Caribbean States to provide additional aid.  Given these facts, Ifailto see how the Mongolian delegate could mention only the  United States, as if we had acted alone, unless he hoped thereby to deny many  Caribbean states represented here their right to reply to his groundless and  spurious charges.
49.3 In the same way, I must object to the Mongolian delegate's characterization  of the planned deployment of intermediate-range missiles in Western Europe as a  'US Plan'. As we all know, this is a plan formulated in 1979 by members of the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization in response to the missile build-up in Eastern  Europe. The independent and sovereign members of NATO would, I am sure, have made  their own rebuttals had they been mentioned in that intervention. Since they were  not, I will only say, as my delegation has said before, that it is our sincere hope  that negotiations will succeed to the extent such deployments are not necessary to  redress an imbalance which we did not create.  Thank you, Mr President. As we have stated on numerous occasions, it is
49.4 Regarding the remarks made by the delegate of Guyana, if he will not be-  lieve our explanation of recent events in Grenada, I suggest that he consult with  many of his Caribbean neighbours for an account which, coming as it would from  bonafide members of the Third World, might carry more weight. The delegate from  Guyana seems to speak of other Caribbean nations with disdain, with condescension  and with disrespect. But this cannot disguise the fact of their legitimate initiat  ive and action.
49.5 Regarding the Syrian delegate's mention of my country, I will only draw his  attention to the fact that the United States marines are in Lebanon not without  invitation, and not alone. As everybody knows, peace-keeping forces of three  other countries, including France - the host country of Unesco - are in Lebanon at  the invitation of the Lebanese Government. Many of them have died there in the  cause of peace, as was recognized by all of us at the very beginning of this  Conference. That the Syrian representative appears ignorant of the multilateral  efforts to restore peace in Lebanon does not bode well for the future.
49.6 Thank you, Mr President.
(50.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the representative of the United States
(50.2) This meeting is now adjourned. Thank you all.  The meeting rose at 9.20 p.m.  La séarice est levée à 21 h.20  Se levanta la sesión a ias 21.20