Twenty-fifth plenary meeting
14 November 1983 at 3.10 p.m.  President: Mr TELL (Jordan)  Vingt-cinquième séance plénière
14 HORGPR 1983 I?. B 15.10  npencenaTenb: r-H TEJIb /MopnaHsm/
1183    VISIT OF THE HON. MARY EUGENIA CHARLES, PRIME MINISTER OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF  DOMINICA /  VISITE DE L'HON. Mme MARY EUGENIA CHARLES, PREMIER MINISTRE DU  COMONWEALTH DE LA DO/MINIQUE/  VISITA DE LA HON. SRA. MARY EUGENIA CHARLES, PRIMERA MINISTRA  DE LA COMMONWEALTH DE DOMINICA /  BB3MT EE IIPEBOCXOAMTEJlbCTBA, ï-XM M3PM OAXMHHM WPJlb3, IIPEMbEP-MBHMCTPA  COAPYXECTBA nOMMHHICM/  \ W , J  .-i++ Sl2jg 'Ld, J,L" -> 6,b b 3 y J I  b a u 1  '+ I 4  6,Lj  (The Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of  Dominica took her place at the rostrum).
(1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I declare the twenty-fifth plenary meeting open.
(1.2) Madam Prime Minister, it gives me great pleasure and satisfaction to welcome you  to the General Conference of Unesco which, this year, is holding, its twenty-second ses-  sion. The number of its Member States has increased and they now total one'hundred and  sixty-one, most of them being what are commonly called 'the developing countries' that hope  to attain some of their objectives and aspirations through this Organization, believing as  they do that international co-operation is a multilateral approach which serves all the  peoples of the world, great or small, rich or poor, powerful or defenceless.
(1.3) Perhaps, Madam Prime Minister, you share my feeling of gratification that the  region to which you belong has played a far from negligible part in expanding our interna-  tional family here at Unesco. Since the Commonwealth of LSominica joined this Organization  in 1979, no fewer than six other States from the same region have become members, enrich-  ing the dialogue among cultures with their own culture, which is distinctive, unique and  authentic, as all cultures are. Today we observe with great pride that these countries  participate in and contribute to the work of the decision-making bodies of Unesco, the  General Conference and the Executive Board in particular. These various factors consti-  tute a source of optimism about the future of international co-operation, despite the com-  plexity of the economic and political problems that beset today's world, of which the  Caribbean region is an integral part.
(1.4) Once again, Madam Prime Minister, I bid you welcome. Peace and the blessing and  mercy of God be upon you.
(1.5) I now give the floor to the Director-General.
2.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :  l'Unesco au moment OU se tient la vingt-deuxieme session de la Conférence géné-  rale. Au nom des Etats membres ici réunis et en mon nom personnel, je vous sou-  haite une très cordiale bienvenue.
2.2 Je tiens à souligner, Madame le Premier ministre, l'effort que vousn'avez  cessé de déployer, tout au long de votre carrière, dans les domaines qui relèvent  de la compétence de l'Unesco. Vous vous êtes en effet penchée, dès le début de  votre vie publique, sur les problèmes de l'éducation non formelle, et en particu-  lier de l'éducation des adultes, et vous avez participé au lancement d'importants  programmes en la matière, d'abord en votre qualité de membre du Comité consulta-  tif du gouvernement de la Dominique pour l'éducation, ensuite en tant que Premier  ministre.  Madame le Premier ministre, je suis heureux de saluer votre présence à
2.3 Vous vous êtes aussi intéressée de très près à la promotion des droits de  la femme et au développement de son rôle dans la vie publique, ainsi qu'aux pro-  blèmes des personnes âgées, en faveur desquelles vous avez contribué à mettre sur  pied une importante institution destinée à leur venir en aide. Vous avez enfin  témoigné un intérêt constant pour tout ce qui touche à l'expression et à la créa-  tion artistiques de votre pays.
2.4 Madame le Premier ministre, vous êtes le premier chef de gouvernement de  la région des Caraïbes à rendre visite à notre Organisation en période de Confé-  rence générale. Je ne peux m'empêcher d'y voir, tout à la fois, un fémoignage du  rôle croissant que joue votre région au sein de la communauté internationale et  un signe renouvelé de la confiance qu'elle accorde à l'Unesco.
2.5 Soyez assurée qu'à l'avenir, les peuples des Caraïbes continueront de  trouver auprès de notre Organisation l'appui et le soutien dont ils ont déjà pu  apprécier la qualité, notamment en matière d'alphabétisation, d'accès aux sciences  et aux techniques modernes, de maîtrise des moyens de la communication, de renfor-  cement de leur identité culturelle et, plus généralement, dans tout ce qui favo-  rise un développement intégré et novateur, synonyme de progrès pour chaque nation  et d'épanouissement créateur pour chaque individu.
(3.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Director-General for his remarks.
(3.2) It gives me great pleasure now to invite The Honourable Mary Eugenia Charles,  Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of Dominica, to address the General Conference.
4.1 The Hon. Mary Eugenia CHARLES (Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of  Dominica) :  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, allow me first  of all to thank you,Mr President, and the Director-General for your very warm  words of welcome. I especially want to thank you for having arranged a special  meeting of the General Conference CO that 1 could address delegations. It would  have been sufficient for me to have met the President, the Chairman of the  Executive Board and the Director-General, but your affording me the opportunity  to talk to all the members of the Organization is something which I greatly  appreciate.
4.2 It is a great pleasure and a privilege for me to have the'opportunity to  address this General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and  Cultural Organization during its twenty-second session. As one of your publica-  tions so pertinently observes, Unesco is the only international organization to  have so many fields of competence: education, natural sciences, social sciences,  culture and communication. With such a broad spectrum of activities and perspec-  tives, Unesco is uniquely placed to assist rnankïnd in finding the type of  solutions required today to enable us not only to survive on this planet but to  create the conditions which would enable man's natural genius to flourish and man  to realize his full potential.
4.3 I wish at the outset to say how impressed I have always been by the work  of the Organization. I wish to say also that the Chief Executive of this  Organization, Mr M'BOW, is helping to chart a course for the Organization which  will do much to help us come to grips with the many issues within Unesco's fields  of competence. Perhaps 1 can best summarize the contribution of the Director-  Generai by quoting an anonymous source: 'Have a dream and believe it; strong  dreams always come true'.
4.4 When I intimated earlier that Unesco's broad range of responsibilities  gave considerable scope for it to affect the lives of millions of people all over  the world in some very significant respects, I wished for a moment to draw atten-  tion to our own situation in Dominica and the Caribbean region. In the last few  years we have taken some significant strides in the education sector, thanks  largely to the inspiration, the efforts and the response of Unesco to our many  requests. I must specifically state here that our Education Sector Survey Report,  which has enabled us to develop an agenda of issues for education for the next  decade, is to a considerable extent the work of staff members of your Organiza-  tion. The report has already enabled us to attract some measure of international  attention and has brought into sharp focus some current and critical issues facing  the educational structure in all its ramifications. Our own experience in mount-  ing this major review of education is perhaps a useful lesson for the international  community in its search for appropriate solutions to the problems of small island  economies.
4.5 I wish to express my sincere thanks to the Director-General. We have been  very impressed, Mr Director-General, by your prompt response to our calls for  assistance. You have shown an understanding of the problems of small, developing  countries and a readiness to set the considerable intellectual resources of Unesco  to finding solutions to them which deserve to be publicly acknowledged here.
4.6 Unfortunately, Mr President, there is a growing discrepancy between  Unesco's ability to provide the expertise needed for the identification of the  problems facing countries such as mine and its capacity to provide the physical  resources needed for implementation of those solutions.
4.7 We are often told that Unesco is not a funding agency. Mr President,  Mr Director-General, distinguished colleagues, while Unesco is not a funding  agency, it must resolve to help us find the resources needed to undertake the  urgent tasks of development. Unesco's lofty ideas cannot and must not become  mere pious statements of intent but must be translated into concrete, practical  and effective formulas which will enable mankind to tackle the issues of the day.  Unesco has to strive to give man new optimism, widen his vision and open up new  possibilities and new hopes. These new possibilities and new hopes are to be  found especially in small communities for we have a contribution to make to the  international community. It is a two-way business. Indeed one of the great  things about Unesco is that small resources can give significant returns from  small countries. We have already been able to see in a very tangible way how the  resources that we have received through and from Unesco, small as they might have  been, have led to some new and desirable changes in our search for solutions in  education, culture and science and to some extent in technology.
4.8 One theme that we cannot emphasize sufficiently is the need for some re-  thinking on the part of the developed countries regarding their attitude towards  endowing Unesco with a technical assistance fund which can be used as a tool for  development, especially in the field of education. In a sense this would be  mutually beneficial. It would serve to reinforce democratic processes in develop-  ing countries. There is no doubt that an educated population is less likely to  allow its rights to be trampled on than an uneducated one. Furthermore, such a  technical assistance fund would lead to an increased capacity on the part of  developing countries to deal with economic and other problems, thus creating more  stable societies. It is a well established fact that an educated population is  better equipped to take the necessary preventive measures to eradicate epidemic  diseases and thereby raise its health standards and improve its productive capa-  city.
4.9 The essential point that I wish to make in relation to education and eco-  nomic development is already well documented by the World Bank. A recent World  Development Report confirmed that the productivity of human investment is higher  than that of physical investment, and education was identified as the factor most  clearly linked to the level of human development and thus to economic growth.  The report also demonstrated the relationship between education and productivity.  It suggested, for example, that farmers with at least four years' primary educa-  tion tended to produce approximately 13 per cent more than those with no primary  education. The staggering fact is that this is a rate of return which could  mean all the difference between an adequate diet and malnutrition.
4.10 When we examine these facts and the results of a recent study conducted  by the Food and Agriculture Organization and the United Nations Family Planning  Association on the food production potential in 117 developing countries (which  indicated that by the year 2000, 65 developing countries would be unable to feed  their populations from their own lands because of low levels of agricultural  production), the importance of education is thrown into striking relief.
4.11 The World Bank report further draws attention to the indirect relation-  ships between education and other sectors in the total development perspective.  We know, of course, that nutrition and health fall properly within the competence  of WHO, food, hunger and famine within the purview of FAO, employment, labour and  productivity within that of ILO--but education is not only the key factor but the  sine qua non for the successful tackling of problems in these fields. All this  may sound both simplistic and obvious. From my experience in managing a small  underdeveloped island state, however, it appears that it is what is straight-  forward, simple and patently obvious that is often overlooked within the general  strategy organized for growth and development at the international level.
4.12 In that connection it never ceases to amaze me how we arrive at the clas-  sification of 'developed', 'underdeveloped', 'Least developed' and 'developing  countries'. In our Caribbean region we are often referred to as underdeveloped  when we are not regarded as developing. But, when funds are very badly needed to  address the basic issues of productivity in education, to provide the hardware  and software which the many reports and consultants have drawn attention to, we  are told that we do not qualify for assistance according to the criterion of  'least developed', and hence the funds are not made available. The question is  whether our long catalogue of criteria (be it per capita income or whatever other  concept) is not causing us to lose sight of the basic everyday needs of human  beings who require the tools for development while we are happily classifying  their problems away in our various catalogues which disqualify them for so much of  what is basic to their daily concerns. In plain terms, why can't we address  particular problems in the particular region in the particular country on the  basis of both perceived and identified needs rather than pre-ordained criteria  which cannot take account of the daily battle for growth and survival that is so  evident in so many of our countries?
4.13 Letus look at another staggering example. UNICEF has recently reported  that 15 million children less than five years old die every year in developing  countries from malnutrition and other diseases. That is 40,000 children every  day. We have already referred to the strong correlation between education,  increased farm production and an adequate diet or malnutrition and famine. Let  us take the analysis further. A significant proportion of infant deaths are due  to intestinal infections which lead to rapid diarrhoeal dehydration. Until  recently this could only be treated by intravenous saline drips to which the  majority of children in rural areas had no access. In 1978, however, it was  discovered that the right proportion of salt and glucose dissolved in water pro-  duced a liquid that could be absorbed by a sick child. The British Medical Asso-  ciation hailed this discovery as 'potentially the most important medical advance  of the century'. This great medical advance is, however, quite useless in a  situation in which neither the parents nor the sick child can read the simple  instructions!
4.14 It would be a tragedy, therefore, if the funds so badly needed in this  situation to mount a programme to tackle illiteracy which could address this  and other issues were withheld on account of some criterion, no matter how care-  fully designed, which disqualified a particular country from benefiting from what-  ever funds-in-trust or other funds were available to deal with this particular  educational nightmare. These are serious questions for Unesco and other inter-  national agencies to reflect on. Otherwise, while volumes and volumes of paper  are being produced for various conferences, problems such as those I have referred  to will continue to plaque mankind and to challenge the best that is in us. Our  work must be designed to close the gap between available knowledge and the resour-  ces that can be tapped as and when the need arises.
4.15 I come now to our membership in the region of Latin America and the Carib-  bean. I should like to start by suggesting that we have opted to belong to that  group and we were expected to exercise an option based on experience and to some  extent geography. Furthermore, it looked like the group that would best serve  our interests and those of the wider international community. But, Mr President,  as I have said at the United Nations and in other international forums, we in the  Caribbean have been disappointed that we have not been allowed to participate  within the region to the extent indicated by our experience and talent.
4.16 It seems to us, when we reflect on representation in the elective bodies  of Unesco, that the results have not always worked to the advantage of minority
1187    groups of states. Moreover, when those minority groups have a culture that is  well developed and distinct from that of the other states in the geographical  region to which they belong, it becomes even more important that their cultural  identity (an ideal which Unesco cherishes and holds most dear) is not neglected  and trampled under. It thus behoves Unesco to find suitable ways and means of  giving effect to the legitimate aspirations of minority groups of states--  especially those which comprise small developing countries--to participate fully in  the various organs and activities of the Organization.
4.17 It is not for me to dwell for too long on the experience of the recent  elections, which still leave the Caribbean subgroup, consisting of the English-  speaking Caribbean and Suriname, under-represented on the Executive Board in  relation to Latin America and the Caribbean as a whole. If we are serious about  the lofty ideas of Unesco, every effort must be made to ensure that some arrange-  ment parallel with that arrived at within the African and Arab group should be  worked out to remove the prevailing inequality.
4.18 As mankind has developed, the Caribbean, notwithstanding its size, has  produced men and women who have been outstanding in many fields of scholarship  and in many areas of endeavour. Sife has nothing to do with genius. Size is not  relevant to quality of contribution. Indeed, the equality of opportunity which is  a major tenet of this Organization must provide for equality to tap resources and  to influence decision-making. If we cannot find a solution within the group we  shall have to find one outside it. But Unesco is the best place to demonstrate  that justice can be done, and be seen to be done: and minds are already at work,  I understand, to correct this patent deficiency--a deficiency that results in the  under-representation of the Caribbean subgroup on the Executive Board and in the  lack of an effective voice in the councils of Unesco, with a consequently dispro-  portionate share of the resources being allocated to our subregion.
4.19 Mr President, this is an appropriate point for me to pause to commend and  congratulate the newest members of the Organization.
4.20 Distinguished delegates, perhaps no organization has a greater opportunity  than Unesco to influence peace in the world and understanding among different cul-  tures. Your Director-General expressed this issue in more relevant terms when he  recently addressed the Graduate School of Education of Harvard University at  Boston. Referring to the needs of education today, he stated, 'this education is  also called upon to inculcate attitudes of respect for every human being and for  every culture, together with the responsibility of each one of us for the future  of all'. That calls for a level of tolerance and understanding that is not yet  evident in our relations with one another. It is very important that those who  perform the major tasks in international organizations be imbued with a high sense  of duty and with a mature perspective concerning peoples and cultures that will  enable them to rise above the petty jealousies and narrow concerns that could be the  result of belonging to the particular part of the world from which they come.  This means that they must have an inner reserve of strength, together with a  philosophy which allows them to behave like ordinary human beings, but at the  same time to rise above some of the everyday squabbles that make life so awkward  on our planet.
4.21 In this connection, let me refer to what someone once said about a sense  of humour, an important component of our culture. He said, 'a sense of humour  can render a person attractive'. He observed, for example, that less and less  people laughed in New York City, while in his own suburban train to Manhattan,  whenever someone laughed, all heads turned in shocked disapproval. It was either  a recently immigrated Caribbean or Latino who broke the sacrosanct silence  required for reading of The New York Times. The observer then went on to make a  pertinent conclusion. 'Sometimes', he said, 'vending machines of laughing gas  would be a good business in New York ...' Mr President, in my own culture, we  laugh a great deal, and we don't need machines of that kind!
4.22 With the founders of this Organization, we believe in 'full and equal  opportunities for education for all, in the unrestricted pursuit of objective  truth, and in the free exchange of ideas and knowledge'. We believe that these  principles underpin the very dignity of mankind and constitute the basis for its  continued progress. Unesco should translate these principles into a reality  that both reflects and meets the peculiar needs of small island states belonging  to the Organization. By doing so, it will enable us to join in ensuring that  works of the intellect and fruits of scientific and technological research are  shared and moved freely across frontiers, including those presented by language.
4.23 Mr president, distinguished delegates, as you continue in the next few  days to set a path for Unesco's Programme and Budget for 1984-1985, may I urge  you to remember that the main task of the Organization is to serve humanity.
1188    Service and kindness to each other are two of the basic tenets of justice and  happiness in our societies. Moreover, Unesco is at present very much engaged in  planning activities for 1985, International Youth Year. Perhaps, as we tackle  this task, we should remember that one of the best strategies to engage our  attention would involve a concerted effort on the part of the international com-  munity to redirect the resources now spent on armaments to peaceful purposes. I  say this intheknowledge that young people (however that category is defined)  constitute the vast majority ofthe populations of virtually all the countries  represented here today. In other words, the agenda that should be set before us  in this context would include an emphasis not just on knowledge, skill and reward  but on the heart, on feeling, on the commitment to doing good and on being of  service to others.
4.24 I cannot take my leave of you without referring to the crisis and the sad  events to which my part of the world has been subjected during the past month.  It is unfortunate that many members of the international community did not care  to inform themselves before making pronouncements, and that some such members  even took steps to distort the facts. In the crisis, there were two factors to be  considered: sovereignty and kith and kin, both of which boil down to the common  denominator: people.
4.25 On the day when the world forgets that the only reason for being, for  existence, for effort, for action, is to satisfy the needs of people, then we  will be doomed indeed. We must therefore ask ourselves when we speak of sover-  eignty what exactly we are speaking of. Is it the land that is sovereign? Are  the boundaries sacrosanct? Or is it the people who are sovereign? Some of us  have earned this sovereignty by bloodshed while others have negotiated it. But in  each and every case the cause was the self-determination of the people of the  land, not the freedom of the land itself.
4.26 If, then, it is the people who are sovereign, and surely that is so, then  must we not respond to the call of the people to assist them in maintaining that  freedom and that sovereignty? Is not the duty to so respond even greater when  the people making the request are one's own kith and kin?
4.27 The international community has met regularly since 13 March 1979, and at  no time did the countries who became this year so immersed in the matters of  concern to Grenada ever comment on the fact that children twelve years old and  younger were being taught to use guns instead of learning to increase production  in their land, to extend their understanding of their culture. At no time did the  international community interest itself in the fact that young people under  eighteen were being instructed to become gaolers of innocent people and to super-  vise the torturing of other human beings--by exposing them to bees' nests until  stung to unconsciousness, by pulling out toe-nails and by administering electric  shocks daily. Those of us who commented on those established facts were vilified  for so doing.
4.28 Non-interference? Mr President, when kith and kin respond to the cause of  a sovereign people, and call nations with the necessary ability to carry out the  will of the people of Grenada to their assistance, let us not hypocritically  raise our hands in horror and cry out 'non-intervention' or protest against  'invasion'. An invader is rejected by the inhabitants and his efforts are  resisted. Where have you ever seen an invader welcomed with open arms, cries of  joy, flags and bunting by 90 per cent of the population?
4.29 The people of Grenada made their wishes known to their kith and kin, and  therefore welcomed the rescue mission that was mounted, with great assistance from  the United States of America. As Chairman of the Organization of Eastern Carib-  bean States, I have thanked the United States for responding to our legal requests.
4.30 Mr President, I call for tolerance, the foundation-stone of the United  Nations, a corner-stone which is being ignored more and more. I call for toler-  ance for small, poor, underdeveloped countries, I call for tolerant awareness of  the fact that, small and lackinq resources though we may be, we are none the less  knowledgeable enough to know what is good for us.
4.31 Mr President, Mr Director-General, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,  thank you for according me the opportunity to deliver this address. Let me end  with an exhortation: I pray God's blessings on your deliberations. Thank you.
(5.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  Eugenia Charles.
(5.2) Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is now suspended for five minutes after which  we shall resume very briefly to enable me to submit to you a recommendation by the General  Committee concerning the division of work among the organs of the General Conference.
(5.3) Iwouldrequest the delegations to remain seated while the Prime Minister is being  escorted out of this room.  On behalf of the General Conference I should like to thank The Honourable Mary  (The meeting was suspended for five minutes to permit the  Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of Dominica to withdraw  from the conference hall).  REFERRAL TO THE DRAFTING AND NEGOTIATION GROUP OF CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLU-  TIONS 22 C/PLEN/DR.9 AND 22 C/PLEN/DR.11 (item 64 of the agenda)/  RENVOI AU GROUPE DE REDACTION ET DE NEGOCIATION DE L'EXAMEN DES PROJETS DE  RESOLUTION 22 C/PLEN/DR.9 ET 22 C/PLEN/DR.11 (POINT 64 DE L'ORDRE DU JOUR)/  REMISION AL GRUPO DE REDACCION Y DE NEGOCIACION DE LOS PROYECTOS  DE RESOLUCION 22 C/PLEN/DR.9 y 22 C/PLEN/DR.ll (Punto 64 del Orden del Día)/  IIEPEHAZIA HA PACCMOTPEHME I'PYIIIW II0 PEWKTMPOBAHMD M COI'JIACOBAHMD  IIPOEKTOB PE30JIH)4M$l 22 C/PLEN/DR.9 M 22. C/PLEN/DR.ll/nyHKT 64 IIOBeCTKPi AHR/
(6.1) The PRESIDENT) (Translation from the Arabic) :  The twenty-fifth plenary meeting will now resume.
(6.2) I wish to inform you that at its seventh meeting on Wednesday, 9 November, the  General Committee decided to recommend to the plenary to refer to the Drafting and Negotia-  tion Group for examination the draft resolutions 22 C/PLEN/DR.9 and 22 C/PLEN/DR.ll both  submitted under item 64 of the agenda. Do you agree to refer both draft resolutions to  the Drafting and Negotiation Group?
(6.31 As there are no comments or objections, I hereby declare that it is so decided.
(6.4) The meeting is adjourned until Wednesday next at 10 a.m.  The meeting rose at 4 p.m.  La séance est levée à 16 heures  Se levanta la sesión a las 16.00