Fifth plenary meeting
27 October 1983 ar; 10.10 a.m.  President: Mr TELL (Jordan)  Cinquième séance plénière
27 OKTR6pR 1983 I?. B 10.10  lTpeacenaTenb: T-H TEJIb /MopnaHm/
415    GENERAL POLICY DEBATE/DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE/DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL/  OECYÌK,QEHRE BOTrPOCOB 0EDJ.En IIOJTTIMTEIKH/ LUI LUI .&li. / ,&&f@+-&  (i. 1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) i  icy debate.
(1.2) Before giving the floor to the first speaker, the head of the Kuwaiti delegation,  I would like to remind you of the following. First: the time allowed for each head of  delegation to'speak on the general policy should not exceed twenty minutes, in accordance  with the Executive Board's recommendations which you approved yesterday. Second: the  legitimate right of reply will be exercised, if requested, at the end of the evening meet-  ing. I hope, of course, that our comments and discussions on the general policy will be  such as to make this unnecessary. Third: I would like to remind you of the principles  upon which Unesco is founded, in particular the principles of morality and justice which  guide our conduct. I would also like to remind you of the objectives we are striving to  attain, foremost amongst which, perhaps, is the promotion of understanding between peoples  and the achievement of equity, justice and equality for the human race. Fourth and last  but not least, I would like to remind you all, and in particular those who will be speak-  ing, of the honest and sincere words of the Director-General at the end of his cornprehen-  sive address yesterday regarding the fears and anxieties we are experiencing today and the  hopes, dreams and expectations we are striving to realize for the future. I hope these  words will serve as guidelines for our work throughout this Conference, so that we may  attain the objectives to which all the nations of the world aspire.
(1.3) And now, ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to the head of the Kuwaiti delega-  tion, H.E. Dr Yacoub Yusef Al-Ghunaim, the distinguished Minister of Education.  I declare open the fifth plenary meeting, which will be devoted to the general pol-
(2.1) Mr AL-GHUNAIM (Kuwait) (Translation from the Arabic) :  Mr Director-General of Unesco, distinguished delegates, I bring you peaceful greetings  from our land, and sincerest prayers that the Almighty may bless our efforts and spread  mercy and goodwill in all our hearts. May God's peace, mercy and blessings be upon you.
(2.2) ï should like to begin by offering my sincerest congratulations to our distinguished  colleague, Dr Said Tell, on his election as President of the twenty-second session of the  General Conference. He has given us every reason to feel confident about his wisdom and  his ability to carry out this task, and I wish him every success.
(2.3) I also extend my greetings and sincerest appreciation to my esteemed friend,  Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, Director-General of the Organization, whose deep faith, creative  abilities, indefatigable efforts and self-sacrifice have a powerful impact upon the  extraordinary strides that have been made in the Organization's work and the progress that  has been achieved towards the realization of its objectives. A glance at the draft budget  and the fourteen programmes it contains reveals sincere effort, successful planning and  deep insight into ways of promoting and developing human effort in the fields of education,  culture and science.
(2.4) Ladies and gentlemen, this meeting, which has brought together intellectual leaders  from all corners of the world, representing over 160 Member States, is a living embodiment  of human dignity and mankind's sincere endeavour to accept ideas, exchange views and inten-  sify dialogue, in search of the best ways of endowing our voyage together on this planet  with nobility of purpose, meaningful content, dignity of realization and genuine mutual  understanding and co-operation. We are meeting in a true and profound union in spite of  the geographical distances that separate us and our differences of culture, language and  sometimes interest. Hence, this meeting constitutes a great gain to humanity, and accord-  ingly we must assist one another in striving for its enrichment and success. It is a gleam  of light in the disturbed and uncertain world which confronts us, a world which instead of  peace has an arms race, instead of justice has the logic of force and the occupation of the  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,
418    lands of others, instead of dialogue and attempts to narrow the gap between the rich coun-  tries and the poor countries, has selfishness and egotism, and instead of frugality in the  exploitation of its resources, has wasteful depletion of energy and pollution of the  environment, The result is the consumption of resources which could have been directed  towards the provision 'of better living opportunities in a world whose future is likely to  be characterized by a growing population, shortages of resources and declining rates of  development in those parts of the world that are most in need of it.
(2.5) Our only hope of being able to deal successfully with this situation lies in our  awareness of and confidence in the role which education can play - if human efforts are  concerted - in the creation of a new world built with faith and perseverance around the  eternal values which God has created human intelligence to illuminate in the establishment  of civilization on this planet, values which can direct the course of development and the  international understanding and co-operation to which we aspire. They are the surging  spirit behind every creative effort, the main motivating force behind every noble purpose  and the safeguard against growing ambitions and conflicting interests. We believe that  the role assumed by Unesco in this endeavour is an initial step towards the-requisite  awakening of the human conscience. In this connection, we refer to two of the five tasks  adopted by the General Conference as lines o'f emphasis underlying its major programmes,  namely: helping to facilitate the necessary changes and transitions in the international  community, and encouraging a renewal of human values within a context of genuine under-  standing among peoples.
(2.6) We have studied the draft programe and budget presented to this Conference and  feel that it is a faithful and successful translation of the objectives and aims we have  adopted for the forthcoming period. It reflects a noble effort and an appreciable intel-  lectual achievement. We support, in every respect, Unesco's programmes and efforts to  achieve a more meaningful dialogue and awaken the conscience of the world in the search  for a new international economic order which will give the developing countries - those  countries that have seen their resources and wealth sacrificed for a long period of time -  the right to a standard of living characterized by human dignity. We also acknowledge the  importance of Programme III and its projects, which call for a new world information and  communication order and encouraging the free flow and dissemination of information so that  it may be the property of all humankind and not the monopoly of a limited group of coun-  tries, for this, in our estimation, would constitute a form of bias in the fields of edu-  cation, science, culture and communication. In our view the participation programe should  be expanded to include a larger number of short projects designed to cope with the recur-  rent needs of our educational systems. We also hope Prögrämme IV, 'The-formulation and  application of education policies', will receive sufficient support to enable it to pro-  vide Member States, especially in our region, with activities and projects that are geared  to educational planning and administration, mobilization of resources and promotion of the  relationship between education and development needs, so that all efforts to establish new  strategies for the development of education and educational systems in developing countries  will stem from the identities, situations and values of these countries, rather than being  imposed from without or adopted in imitation of foreign ideas. For education, in our esti-  mation, is an indigenous plant which only flourishes when watered by its own people, and  only grows tall to open up to the life and movement of the world when it is deeply rooted  in the culture and civilization of its people. It is our hope that further steps will be  taken and increased efforts made to achieve wider utilization of Arabic as an official  language in Unesco. We would also like the Educational Innovation Programme for Develop-  ment in the Arab States, the efforts and contributions of which have been highly benefi-  cial to us, to be given all possible support in the achievement of its objectives.
(2.7) Appreciating the effective role which the Educational Innovation Programme for  Development in the Arab States might play in enriching and strengthening education in the  region, Kuwait was eager to host the programme. An agreement to this effect has been con-  cluded between the Government of Kuwait and Unesco, whereby Kuwait provides the headquar-  ters of the programme, a monetary contribution to its financing, and various facilities to  enable the programme to carry out its functions.
(2.8) It may be appropriate at this point for me to give you a brief review of our  attempts in Kuwait to set up an educational system stemming from and rooted in our cul-  tural identity and the eternal message of Islam; an educational system which is recep-  tive to the world and benefits from development and innovation in human experience and one  which is closely linked with the requirements of development in our country. These efforts  have been fruitful from the quantitative point of view, for the number of students has  increased by nearly a factor of nine in the course of the past twenty years. Our schools  have thus absorbed 90 per cent of all children at the age of primary education, 75 per cent  of those at the age of preparatory education and 65 per cent of those at the age of sacond-  ary education. The percentage of girls receiving education has approached that of boys.  Thus, every child from the pre-school level at the age of four until university age has  been given free access to appropriate education. A similar effort in adult education and  literacy has run parallel to this. In every residential district a centre for adult edu-  cation is provided, allowing every person who so desires to pursue hi's studies and develop  his abilities. By means of a comprehensive development plan, an overall review of the  educational system, in terms of objectives, structure and content, has been undertaken in  order to link that system more closely with development and the needs of the environment  stress the skills of self-education, and diversify secondary-school programmes, withi  the aim of integrating theoretical and technologicál aspects through new forms such as  schools using the course system and practical technological studies in general education.  The development plan also includes educational, psychological, social and sports services.  Methods of evaluation are also undergoing progressive change in the direction of greater  comprehensiveness and objectivity. Through the teacher-training college, primary and pre-  school teachers have been trained and integrated services for in-service teacher training  provided. We have also established a curriculum research centre, in which special atten-  tion is devoted to educational research as a basis for the develo ment process. Technical  and vocational education has undergone a far-reaching revival, crgwned by the establish-  ment of the Public Corporation for Applied Education and Training as an independent insti-  tution. This Corporation is adopting various Unesco recommendations concerning the elim-  ination of barriers between education, practical work and training, and the establishment
419    of links with the labour market and its requirements, the centre participation in educa-  tional policy planning, programme structuring and student training, and contributes effec-  tively to the evaluation of students. We still have a long way to go before we achieve a  type of education that is appropriate to our cultural origins and takes into account our  need for qualified technical personnel in order to attain the comprehensive development of  our society; a type of education characterized by a harmonious balance between the efforts  of the school and the communication and information media, a rational relationship between  education and work, greater openness to the environment in terms of give and take, and  opportunities for lifelong education provided. All these are hopes that we hope to fulfil  through the advice, assistance and co-operation of Unesco and the Arab and Gulf State  organizations working in the field of education.
(2.9) Mr President, we have been speaking of our appreciation and esteem for Unesco's  admirable efforts on behalf of the preservation of the cultural identity of peoples and  the safeguarding of human rights. By the same token we must record our condemnation of  the contemptible practices being pursued by Israel in the occupied Arab territories. It  has repeatedly attempted to deprive Arab children of their right to education by closing  down a number of educational institutions and mutilating curricula in an effort to oblit-  erate the cultural identity of the Palestinian people and preventing that people from  supervising its cultural and educational institutions. These are practices which are con-  trary to ail international law and custom and disregard United Nations and Unesco  resolutions.
(2.10) Mr President, this meeting seeks to establish security and peace among the peoples  of the world by means of action in the fields of culture and education. Accordingly, it  is painful to observe that brothers in faith in our region are locked in strife. We call  from this rostrum for all men of. goodwill to devote their efforts to ending the war  between the two sister countries Iraq and Iran and to the resultant spilling of the blood  of children and young men.
(2.11) Finally, I hope that your efforts will be fruitful and that this meeting will be  crowned with success. Peace be upon you.
(3.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I also thank him for his congratulations on the occasion of my election. I now give the  floor to Dr Nugrobo Notosusanto, Minister of Education and Culture and head of the  Indonesian delegation.  I thank H.E. the Minister of Education of Kuwait for his comprehensive address.
4.1 Mr NOTOSUSANTO (Indonesia) :  ladies and gentlemen, I should like, first of all, on behalf of the Indonesian  delegation, to congratulate you, Mr President, on your election. I also wish to  convey to you and the General Conference the most cordial greetings and good  wishes of the Government of the Republic of Indonesia. I assure you that my del-  egation will play its part in making this Conference, under your wise guidance, a  successful event.
4.2 Mr President, it gives me particular pleasure to report to you and all the  distinguished delegates attending this august gathering that the preservation work  on the gigantic, venerable Borobudur monument, one of man's outstanding cultural  creations, has been completed. This achievement has been made possible thanks to  the concerted efforts of many Member States, organizations and individuals of dif-  ferent cultural backgrounds and religious persuasions, who recognized the urgency  involved in rescuing the Borobudur monument from natural destruction, and coiiec-  tively acted most effectively to preserve this majestic cultural property. The  successful worldwide mobilization of means and resources for safeguarding the monu-  ment is again a clear demonstration of the existence of a common concern among all  of us for the preservation of man's best cultural creations, regarded not only as  the cultural heritage of a given nation but also as the cultural heritage of man-  kind in its entirety. In recognition of the universal value of the monument and in  appreciation of the international collective effort which guaranteed its long-  Lasting, illustrious existence, the inauguration ceremony, held to celebrate the  completion of the preservation work on 23 February 1983, was presided by the Presi-  dent of our Republic, H.E. Mr Soeharto. The ceremony was also attended by Mr Amadou-  Mahtar M'Bow, as the personification of Unesco. His presence made my government feel  deeply honoured and gratified.
4.3 On behalf of the Government and people of Indonesia, I thank all of you  wholeheartedly for the remarkable international support given to us in an undertak-  ing which we would not have been able to tackle on our own.  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates,
4.4 Permit me now, Mr President, to express the profound gratitude of the  Indonesian delegation to our Organization's inspiring Director-General, Mr Amadou-  Mahtar M'Bow, and his efficient staff for having provided us with a clear, compre-  hensive Introduction to the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985, the volumin-  ous draft programme itself, and a presentation of the major programmes by adminis-  trative units, based on guidelines for action throughout the period 1984-1989, as  approved by the General Conference at its fourth extraordinary session, held in  Paris in 1982. The Indonesian delegation recognizes the colossal work which has  been accomplished to produce these formidable as well as illuminating documents,  not to mention the numerous other supporting documents. These documents certainly  facilitate access to information on what our Organization is expected to do.
4.5 Most appropriately, the first major programme mentioned in the draft pro-  grame for the period 1984-1987 is concerned with a reflection on world problems,  with proposed activities leading to the establishment of a network of analytical  studies and research involving both centres'and institutes and eminent personalities.  In our view, some kind of consensus, based, indeed, on a spirit of complete open-  mindedness to all the various currents of thought, on the nature of our world prob-  lems is truly imperative. My delegation concurs with the Director-General in the  view that a continuous analysis and exchange of knowledge with regard to world prob-  lems must be the chief focus of Unesco's thinking in order to be able to contribute  to the advance of ideas and to the debate within our international community. Any  noteworthy ideal will almost certainly generate opposition, forcing a need for  acceptable solutions. However, the debate will provide the opportunity for the  formation of better knowledge and greater public awareness of the significance and  scope of the major world problems which affect our present living conditions and  our life in the future.
4.6 We in Indonesia are fully committed to what in the preamble to our Republic's  Constitution, adopted in 1945, is stated most succinctly as 'a world order based on  independence, lasting peace and social justice'. In fact, one of the major under-  takings of the government of our country in recent years has been the nationwide-  endeavour to make all sectors of our society even more aware of the basic ideas of  our national ideology, our national Constitution, and the basic outline of the  State's policy. These principles are ail very much rooted in those very ideas which  have brought practically all nations together as members of Unesco. We, of course,  recognize the many difficulties and dangers that face us in our contemporary world,  the problem of our vast human community which are reported to us every day through  radio, television and film, as well as through newspapers, magazines and books. But  we in Indonesia are fully confident that our world problems can be overcome. We  have much trust in our common humanity and are convinced that international organi-  zations like Unesco will, indeed, be able to transform the very heterogeneous popu-  lation of our globe into 'a united family, upholding the rights of each and every  person in a world of equity, justice and peace'. Accordingly, the Indonesian del-  egation greatly appreciates Unesco's efforts to influence international public  opinion with respect to the struggle for the elimination of every vestige of col-  onialism and racism in our world.
4.7 Mr President, all of us, Member States of Unesco, are continuously and  deeply concerned about education. We are constantly on the move to ensure that  the right to education for all individuals living within the boundaries of our  respective countries is effectively exercised. For developing countries like  Indonesia, where intellectual, financial, and managerial resources are still in  short supply, the endeavour to create and develop the requisite conditions for  equal access and equal opportunities of success for all in the field of education  is certainly a very difficult proposition. In spite of our substantial achieve-  ments in education, as noted by many who have seen the state of affairs of educa-  tion in Indonesia, we ourselves are far from satisfied. We still have to complete  our work in the eradication of illiteracy. Millions of young people and adults  who should already be able to read and write still need to be taught the ability  to do so.
4.8 My delegation is pleased that the Draft Programme for 1984-1985 indeed  regards the eradication of illiteracy as a first priority. The major programme  entitled 'Education for all', which involves an allocation of 47 per cent of the  programme's earmarked resources for Unesco's action to eradicate illiteracy, con-  forms very much with my own country's set of priorities and again demonstrates  Unesco's determination to be truly guided by its main ethical responsibilities.  Indonesia is also engaged in repidly expanding activities in the democratization  of education, adult education, and education in rural areas.
4.9 Similarly, the other major programme in the field of education, namely the  programme on 'Education, training and society' as well as the programme on 'The  formulation and application of educational policies', conform very well with my  delegation's thinking about priority needs.
4.10 The establishment of a 'new order' for the sea, following the signature of  the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, gives much satisfaction to  Indonesia, a rather extensive archipelago country. Indonesia has always regarded  its seas as part of its entity. The new United Nations Convention on the Law of  the Sea acknowledges Indonesia's rights with respect to the seas between and among  its many islands. We are fully aware, however, that at the same time the new Con-  vention also entrusts Indonesia with responsibility for bringing about a more  equitable exploitation of the wealth of its marine resources. It becomes even  more necessary now to promote the development of marine scientific research in the  Indonesian archipelago. The Indonesian delegation is pleased that provision has  been made in Unesco's draft programme and budget for much needed assistance in the  development of marine scientific research when required. My delegation, in fact,  endorses the entire programmes on 'The human environment and terrestrial and marine  resources', 'Science, technology and society' and 'The sciences and their applica-  tion to development'.
4.11 We are fully aware of the necessity to accelerate the development of  science and technology in a country like ours, and we are increasingly aware of  the positive contribution which can be made by Unesco through these programes to  such much needed and desired development. We only hope that even more attention  will be paid to efforts likely to link intellectual thought to the concrete  realities of individual countries. In other words, my delegation wishes that more  active and participatory training and education be undertaken so as to develop not  only the intellectual capacity of the participants but also the quality of their  skills in performing their tasks.
4.12 Mr President, regarding the communication and information sector, I wish  to express my delegation's support for Unesco's major programme entitled 'Communi-  cation in the service of man'. I hope that this programme, together with our com-  mon efforts within the context of the International Programme for the Development  of Communication (IPDC), will gradually eliminate the existing imbalances in the  world in the fields of communication and information. In a developing country  like Indonesia we are very conscious of the need to reinforce and intensify the  development of communication infrastructures, networks and resources at national  and regional as well as world levels. My government promotes the idea of 'freedom  and responsibility' in the development of communication and information. The basic  right of every citizen to give or receive information is definitely recognized, but  each citizen - and this applies particularly to members of the press - is expected  to be prudent in the dissemination of information and to bear the collective  interests in mind.
4.13 Mr President, the Indonesian delegation understands the reasons for the  incorporation of the programme concerning the status of women as a cross-sectional  programme 'which will bring together the programmes specifically designed to  improve the status of women in the context of the other major programmes'. It is  satisfied that sufficient attention is given to both women and youth in Unesco's  Draft Programe and Budget for 1984-1985 under various major programmes. Women  and youth are on the whole held in high esteem in Indonesian society, and their  special interests are accordingly given the necessary attention by the government  through the Minister of Women's Affairs and the Minister of Youth Affairs. Never-  theless, there is still room for improvement. We hope that Unesco will also play  a constructive role in the development of activities expressly devoted to the  specific interests of women and youth; and we observe with pleasure that the  Organization does indeed assume such a role.
4.14 We look forward to the results of the studies on the obstacles to women's  access to political, economic and scientific decision-making which will be circu-  lated at the coming World Conference to be held in 1985 to examine and evaluate  the results of the United Nations Decade for Women. We also look forward to the  International Youth Year with 'Peace, Development and Participation' as its'Lthemes.
4.15 In conclusion, I should like to emphasize, Mr President, that the Indonesian  delegation very much approves the envisaged programmes in their broad outlines.  Unesco's expanding activities can, I agree, be co-ordinated and administered more  efficiently and effectively with the implementation of the decentralization policy.
4.16 We are deeply gratified by the expansion of Unesco's activities and accord-  ingly its increasingly positive role in the shaping of the future common destiny of  humanity. Nevertheless, I must also register my delegation's concern for the econ-  omic and financial underpinning of our collective enterprise. The expansion of  Unesco's activities, although imperative, might lay considerable strains on the  Organization's always limited financial resources. Such a situation has the natural  tendency to produce an unstable state of affairs which might not benefit the future  effectiveness of our Organization. I cherish the hope that the problems related to  the formation of strains in the economic and financial underpinnings of our Organi-  zation will be satisfactorily resolved.
4.17 having said this, I should like to add that on the whole the Indonesian  delegation wishes to be counted among the optimists: it is confident that our com-  bined efforts will ensure that Unesco has a long life, i€ it does not live for  ever, continuously furthe-ring the cause of education, culture, science and tech-  nology for what we hope will be a world order based on national independence, inter-  national interdependence, lasting world peace and social justice for all. Thank  you, Mr President.
(5.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  On your behalf, I thank H.E. the head of the Indonesian delegation. I also thank  him for his kind congratulations. I now give the floor to Mr Victor Stoukaline, the  Chairman of the USSR Commission for Unesco and Vice-Minister for Foreign Affairs, and  head of the USSR delegation.
(6.1) Mr STOUKALINE (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  to congratulate Mr Saïd Tell on his election to the elevated post of President of the  twenty-second session of the General Conference of Unesco, to wish him success in his com-  plex (as we saw for ourselves yesterday) and extremely responsible work and to express con-  fidence that, under his guidance and with the active co-operation of all delegations, the  session will proceed in a constructive spirit and yield good results.
(6.2) The delegation of the Soviet Union attaches great importance to the twenty-second  session of the General Conference, which is required to take stock of the Organization's  activities over recent years and to determine specific tasks for the ensuing period on the  basis of the second Medium-Term Plan.. We note with satisfaction that the session is  attended by a great many high-level delegations from virtually all States in the world.  This testifies to the considerable international authority of UnescÓ and the desire of the  peoples to develop co-operation in science, culture, education and other areas of human  activity.
(6.3) Mr President, it should be clear to everyone attending the session, from whatever  country, that the aims of our Organization can be achieved and its plans carried out only  if we succeed in preserving our planet from nuclear war. It should be equally clear to  all of us that nuclear war, if not averted, would have disastrous effects on human civili-  zation an? indeed life on earth.
(6.4) Hence in addressing Unesco's General Conference session, the Soviet delegation can-  not but express profoand concern over the aggravation of the international situation, which  has no precedent in the entire post-war period. The causes of such a dangerous turn of  events in the world were clearly set forth in the statement by Mr Y.V. Andropov, General-  Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and President  of the Presidium of the USSR Supreme Soviet, on 28 September 1983, The main reason, he  emphasized, is the militaristic course of those who, disregarding the interests of other  states and peoples, try to secure for themselves dominant positions in the world.
(6.5) In order to justify the unbridled build-up of their militaristic preparations, cer-  tain circles are fuelling a war scare and not hesitating to stage the most brutal and  inhuman provocations and direct acts of sabotage against peace, applying a policy of force  and diktat and of interference in the internal affairs of socialist and developing coun-  tries. This policy has caused tensions in many parts of the world - Europe, Asia, Africa,  the Middle East and Latin America. A serious threat has been levelled at the sovereignty  and security of the Republic of Nicaragua, and the situation has worsened in the whole of  Central America. Two days ago the United States of America perpetrated an act of direct  and totally unprovoked aggression against Grenada, unceremoniously flouting all the norms  Of international law. The naked aggression against Grenada is a challenge to the entire  world community and a serious blow to the cause of peace and international security.
(6.6) Distinguished delegates, we request delegations carefully to read the TASS state-  ment on this matter.
(6.7) A particular danger to universal peace is presented by the planstodeploy United  States medium-range missiles in Europe for the purpose of radically changing the strategic  situation on the European continent to the detriment of the vital interests of the USSR  and other socialist countries.
(6.8) At the same time, the militaristic circles with an interest in the arms race are  doing their utmost to deploy first-strike weapons in Europe this year, and to deceive the  peoples a fiction of a 'Soviet threat' has been put into circulation and is today being  exploited on a particularly broad scale. World public opinion, however, is well aware of  the real facts. It was not the Soviet Union that reneged on the agreements and treaties  concluded in the process of détente. It is not the Soviat Union that has adopted and is  carrying out plans for a nuclear build-up on a hitherto unmatched scale: that is formu-  lating the doctrines of a 'limited nuclear war', a 'protracted nuclear conflict' and a  'first nuclear strike'; that has refused to ratify the SALT-II Treaty and wrecked the  talks on the general and complete banning of nuclear weapon tests and on a number of other  subjects. It is not the Soviet Union that is using trade and scientific and technological  exchanges as a means of applying political pressure and is resorting to discriminatory  sanctions against other States in direct violation of the Final Act of the Conference on  Security and Co-operation in Europe.
(6.9) The Soviet Union, together with the countries of the socialist community and with  the support of many developing countries, is countering a reckless and adventuristic  policy with a concrete and consistent policy line making for a radical improvement in the  international situation and removal of the threat hanging over mankind. We are not beg-  ging for peace: we are actively struggling for peace, and we call on all countries and  all peoples to do likewise. In its desire to secure a stable peace, the Soviet Union has  recently put forward a number of major new peace initiatives, including proposals laid  before the current thirty-eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly.  proposals by the Soviet Union, intended to secure agreement on the most important disarma-  ment issues, have now been made public in the replies of Mr Andropov to questions put to  him by the newspaper Pravda.
(6.10) All our peace initiatives are intended to further the Leninist peace-loving foreign  policy of the USSR embodied in the Programme of Peace for the 1980s adopted by the twenty-  sixth Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, and they reflect our unchanging  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, allow me first of all  Fresh
427    policy, our ideology. This policy is an embodiment of the most cherished aspirations of  the Soviet people.
(6.11) The view is sometimes heard in Unesco that the Organization should concern itself  solely with technical aspects of the development of science, education, culture and com-  munication and that the general issue of peace and disarmament distracts attention from  practical tasks in its fields of competence. But the proponents of this conception,  whether or not intentionally, overlook the basic _values and ideals of Unesco. Surely no  one today can deny that removing the danger of world war is the primary requisite for  overcoming all other global problems facing mankind.  switch-over of productive forces to peaceful and creative purposes would both remove a  terrible threatto human civilization and pave the way to overcoming ecological, energy,  raw material, population, food and other problems that have now assumed global, universal  dimensions. Condemning the arms race and the stockpiling of weapons of mass destruction,  Mr Andropov observed in his statement: 'This is not our path. It cannot lead to a solu-  tion of any problems facing mankind, such as the economic development of States, protec-  tion of the environment and the establishment of at least elementary conditions for  people's life, diet, health and education'.
(6.12) In view of Unesco's functions of strengthening peace and international security, as  defined in its Constitution and in decisions by the General Conference and the Executive  Board, the USSR delegation has deemed it necessary to submit for consideration by the  General Conference at its present session a number of draft resolutions on items 14 and 15  of the agenda.  on such subjects as Unesco's contribution to peace and its role in generating a climate of  public opinion conducive to the halting of the arms race and the transition to disarmament.  We consider it Unesco's duty, the duty of people working in science, culture, education and  information, to raise the voice of reason against attempts to edge the world towards a  nuclear disaster and for the transition to disarmament and the securing of world peace and  prosperity. This surely is. a requirement of the day for all people everywhere. We are  convinced that this Organization can and must make a positive contribution to the solution  of these global problems of mankind, and that when it comes to serving peace all countries,  irrespective of social system, level of economic development, size or geographical location,  have ample scope to apply their efforts.
(6.13) Remembering the conflagration that swept the earth four decades ago, consuming the  lives of tens of millions of people, we also propose the adoption of a resolution regard-  ing Unesco's participation in celebrating the fortieth anniversary of the ending of the  Second World War. The adoption of such a resolution would be a tribute to the memory of  all those who forfeited their most precious possession - life itself - for the sake of a  bright future for all mankind.  The halting of the arms race and the  We draw the special attention of the Conference to our draft resolutions
(6.14) The documents submitted by the Soviet delegation are consonant with the final docu-  ments of the Seventh Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries  in Delhi, the mass demonstrations for peace and against the nuclear danger that are taking  place in many countries of the world, the decisions of the World Assembly 'For Peace and  Life, against Nuclear War', the Rome Declaration of the representatives of twenty-six  academies of sciences of various countries, the decisions of the Pugwash Conference and  the numerous appeals and addresses by national committees of scientists, educationists,  doctors and people active in culture regarding the need to avert nuclear war.
(6.15) We welcome Unesco's position as stated by the Director-General of the Organization,  Mr M'BOW, at the second special session of the United Nations devoted to disarmament: 'A  peace movement unprecedented in histcry must now develop everywhere and it must insist on  collective responsibility for the fate of mankind, a responsibility that transcends the  frontiers of selfish interest and narrow calculations and scales the heights of human  solidarity'.
(6.16) We do not of course propose that Unesco should concern itself with, for instance,  the technical aspects of disarmament. This is a matter for the United Nations and bilat-  eral talks. In our view, Unesco's task and that of many millions of workers in education,  science and culture is to help generate a climate of world opinion conducive to disarma-  ment and the securing of peaceful conditions on earth and opposed to the threat of a  nuclear disaster.
(6.17) Mr President, international organizations, and primarily Unesco, can do a great  deal to spread intensified business-like co-operation, particularly in science and tech-  nology, without any discrimination; to amplify the mutual spiritual enrichment of peoples,  exchange artistic values and put out truthful and honest information; and to nurture feel-  ings of mutuai goodwill and respect. At the fourth extraordinary session of the General  Conference, the.Soviet delegation supported Unesco's Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989 since  it directs the work of the Organization towards the solution of world problems affecting  the fundamental, vital interests of all countries and peoples and opens up broad new pros-  pects for enhancing its role and authority in the world arena.
(6.18) The USSR delegation emphasizes and recognizes the importance of Major Programme I  'Reflection on world problems and future-oriented studies'. It is extremely important at  this time that the content of the programme should be such as to enable Unesco actively  to promote the strengthening of peace, namely to help solve the main global problem facing  mankind and the complex socio-economic problems of the developing countries and develop  and enhance international scientific and cultural co-operation.
(6.19) Global problems obviously cannot be solved without broad international interaction  pooling the potential of all States and peoples in terms of their intellectual and tech-  nological resources. The Soviet delegation is accordingly submitting for discussion a  draft resolution on international scientific and cultural co-operation.
(6.20) Mr President, the Draft Programme for 1984-1985 submitted for consideration corres-  ponds on the whole to the guidelines provided in the Medium-Term Plan.
(6.21) At the same time, it must be observed that the Proposed Draft Programme and Budget  for 1984-1985 does not adequately reflect the most important provisions of the Medium-Term  Plan regarding the problems of peace and disarmament. This is hard to accept, for those  problems are closely lcnked to the problem of development. It is common knowledge that  both the prevention of nuclear war and disarmament, being intrinsically global problems,  directly affect the destinies of the developing countries as well. Only lasting détente  and the redistribution of resources released as a result of disarmament will give those  countries a proper opportunity to overcome their economic backwardness inherited from the  colonial period. It is therefore important to ensure that the content of the correspond-  ing major programe is in line with the target of strengthening peace and contributes to  the solution of the complex socio-economic problems of developing countries and to the  development and enhancement of international scientific and cultural co-operation.
(6.22) We are in favour of expanding and intensifying Unesco's activity to enhance the  role of the mass media in the struggle for peace and international co-operation and against  the nuclear danger. In this context, special importance is being assumed by the content of  information. We oppose the use of the mass media for putting out tendentious and utterly  slanderous information (including information about international organizations and Unesco  in particular) and reports sowing alienation and enmity. Mass media workers should dis-  play a keen sense of responsibility in their duties. The mass media can do much to create  a climate of confidence among States. This is the purpose of our draft resolution on the  implementation of and follow-up measures to the 1978 Declaration on the mass media.
(6.23) We support the just demands of the developing countries for a new international  information order and are in favour of intensifying efforts in this direction, particularly  under the International Programme for the Development of Communication.
(6.24) The major programmes pertaining to the problem of education in all its diversity  have taken into account the needs of both the developed and the developing countries. We  shou3.d like those programes to continue focusing on the tasks of eliminating illiteracy,  making education more democratic, linking education and productive work and bringing up  the young in a spirit of humanism and mutual understanding.
(6.25) Major Programmes VI11 'Principles, methods and strategies of action for development'  and XII 'The elimination of prejudice, intolerance, racism and apartheid' basically deserve  support. In our view, however, a clearer relationship should be established in them  between the problems of peace, détente and disarmament and the restructuring of interna-  tional economic relations on a just and democratic basis. Further requirements are to pro-  vide a deeper insight into the social aspects of a new international economic order, to  expose the harmful role of transnational corporations and to strengthen the Organization's  activity aimed at ending neo-colonialist phenomena, racism and apartheid.
(6.26) We consider the major programmes dealing with global scientific problems to be of  paramount importance. In our view, these programmes take into account the most important  proposals of both developed and developing countries and, thouah a few clarifications and  additions are needed, they can certainly be expected to make international multilateral  scientific co-operation more effective and promote the accelerated development of computer  technology, applied microbiology, biotechnology and other sciences. Soviet scientists will  continue to take an active part in drawing up and applying Unesco's national, regional and  international scientific programmes.
(6.27) The major programme on culture is an important one, though it also needs clarifica-  tions and additions regarding the further development of projects to secure the broad  access of people to the treasures of culture and their active involvement in the cultural  life of society and to preserve the cultural heritage of mankind and the cultural identity  of peoples.
(6.28) We welcome the major programe concerning the status of women, but we think that it  should more clearly reflect the growing role of women in the struggle against war and  against colonialism, racism and apartheid.
(6.29) The USSR delegation has submitted a number of other draft resolutions on the major  programes, which, we believe, will help enhance the effectiveness of Unesco's activity  and its contribution to the cause of peace and international scientific and cultural co-  operation. It is extremely important in this regard that all Unesco's major scientific  programmes addressing the most important global problems of mankind should draw upon the  latest and best scientific and technological achievements.
(6.30) One of the essential factors in making the Organization's activities more effective  is strict observance of the principle of the equitable geographical distribution of posts  as this would enable maximum use to be made of the best achievements of all countries and  peoples. We hope that in the forthcoming biennium Unesco's Bureau of Personnel will take  measures to put an end to the situation where some countries are permanently overrepre-  sented, some permanently underrepresented and others not represented at all.
(6.31) Mr President, adoption of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985, with due  regard to constructive proposals and observations made during this session, would be an  important contribution to Unesco's work and would demonstrate that with political will  Unesco can do much to overcome the global problems of mankind.
(6.32) I should like in this connection to quote Mr A.A. Gromyko, First Vice-chairman of  the USSR Council of Ministers and Minister of Foreign Affairs of the USSR. At the final  session of the Madrid meeting of the States participating in the Conference on Security  and Co-operation in Europe, he said: 'Despite all the differences in their policies and  despite all the differences in their assessments of causes of the present state of inter-  national affairs, despite all the tensions of the present-day situation in Europe and the  world, States with different social systems can reach mutually acceptable accords that  benefit all nations and help to clear the skies of European and world politics'.
(6.33) Allow me to express the hope that our session will proceed in a constructive spirit  enabling Unesco to make its contribution to the development of mutually beneficial co-  operation among Member States in the interests of strengthening universal peace for the  benefit of mankind. For its part, the Soviet delegation will do its utmost to achieve  these goals.
(6.34) In conclusion, I should like once more to emphasize that we in the Soviet Union  attach great importance to Unesco's work. We trust that this authoritative international  organization will continue to promote broad international co-operation in its fields of  competence in order to solve the world problems agitating mankind. Thank you for your  attention.
(7.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  for his valuable address. I also thank him for his kind congratulations to me.
(7.2) With regard to the right of reply, this point will be looked into this evening once  we have come to the end of our list of speakers, as I indicated at the beginning of this  meeting. I would like to repeat this to the United States representative, who has asked  to speak in this regard. He will be allowed to exercise his right of reply at this even-  ing's meeting.  On your behalf and my own, I thank the distinguished head of the USSR delegation
(7.3) And now, I call upon Senator Susan Ryan, Minister for Education and Youth Affairs  and Minister assisting the Prime Minister for the Status of Women, and head of the  Australian delegation.
8.1 Mrs RYAN (Australia) :  men, I join the previous speakers in congratulating you, P4r President, on your  election. I would also like to express a warm welcome to the new Member States  and Associate Member which have joined the Organization since the last session of  the General Conference. Their action in joining Unesco marks a further step towards  the universality of membership which is enshrined in its Constitution.
8.2 Mr President, may I begin by drawing your attention to the concluding words  of the Director-General's introduction to the draft programme and budget. Here he  speaks of upholding the rights of each and every person in the world to equity,  justice and peace. In reaching out for this ideal, the Organization meets with the  full sympathy of the Australian Government. As part of the policy statement on  which my government was elected, we affirmed our commitment to contribute to the  creation of a just, equitable and humane international society.
8.3 This aim has been dear to the Australian people for many years. Indeed,  Australia was a founding member of Unesco. The present Australian Government is  the successor to the Labour government which appointed Australia's first full-  time Ambassador to the Organization. A Minister in that government was the only  Australian Minister before me to address the General Conference.
8.4 To demonstrate our commitment to Unesco, my government since its election  in March this year has moved quickly to a more active role in the Organization's  work. . One of our first decisions concerned the appointment of a most distinguished  Australian as Ambassador and Permanent Delegate. Mr Gough Whitlam, a former Labour  Prime Minister of Australia, will be known to many of you because of his long  involvement nationally and internationally in issues with which Unesco is concerned.  His expert and energetic leadership, together with a strengthened staff, will mean  an increased contribution by Australia to the work here in Paris.
8.5 Mr President, one of the contributions which our Organization can make to  the achievement of the purposes for which it was founded is through its standard-  setting instruments. Some distinguished delegates may be aware of the way in which  the Australian Government recently acted to ensure that the words and spirit of the  World Heritage Convention were acknowledged within Australia. In April this year,  Mr President, Mr Director-General, heads of delegations, ladies and gentle-
430    on the first day that the new Parliament met, the government introduced a World  Heritage Properties Conservation Act. On 1 July 1983, the High Court of Australia  gave judgement on a challenge against this legislation and found that as a signa-  tory to the World Heritage Convention, the Australian Government had powers to pre-  vent the construction of a proposed dam in the south-west Tasmania wilderness area.  This area, which contains one of the few remaining temperate rain forests, is listed  on the World Heritage List. It has now been saved. Our government has further  demonstrated its commitment to the principles of the World Reritage Convention by  declaring the second stage of the Kakadu National Park in the Northern Territory and  by declaring the Great Barrier Reef a marine park.
8.6 Turning to the peace objective of Unesco, it should be noted that our govern-  ment has appointed Australia's first Ambassador for Disarmament and has taken steps  to establish a peace research institute in Australia. I have also initiated a  national peace curriculum for Australian schools.
8.7 A major piece of government legislation for which I am responsible is com-  prehensive legislation prohibiting discrimination on the grounds of sex and marital  status in a wide range of areas. Just as our environment legislation gained force  through our participation in the World Heritage Convention, so Australia's sex dis-  crimination legislation implements its responsibilities following the government's  ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of  Discrimination against Women.
8.8 Education is one of the fundamental areas in which discrimination on the  basis of sex or marital status will be prohibited. When the legislation is enacted,  shortly after my return to Australia, all federal-funded education programmes will  be required to be equally accessible to girls and boys. Equal access will also be  required for female students in tertiary institutions, and the legislation will pro-  hibit discriminatory employment practices in universities and other tertiary insti-  tutions. These measures will ensure Australia's compliance with Unesco's objective  of improving educational opportunities for women.
8.9 In the few days during which I have been absent from Australia, our govern-  ment has announced its intention to introduce a Bill of Rights together with other  human rights such as those concerning the freedom of expression, conscience and  religion, and the protection of privacy. It will also protect citizens against the  restrictions of such rights by written laws and government action.
8.10 The human rights package will also include a strengthening of the Racial  Discrimination Act, which provides protection against discrimination on the grounds  of race for the many racial groups that now make up multicultural Australia and -  in particular - for the indigenous people of Australia, the Australian Aborigines,  whose grossly disadvantaged position in our society will receive the energetic  attention of the government.
8.11 The government has been seeking ways to ensure that national actions and  policies closely reflect the norms and agreements to which Member States of Unesco  have subscribed at earlier sessions of the General Conference. It gives me great  pride and pleasure to announce that the government proposes to become a party to  the following Unesco Conventions: the Convention for the Protection of Cultural  Property in the Event of Armed Conflict; the Convention concerning the Interna-  tional Exchange of Publications; the Convention concerning the Exchange of Offi-  cial Publications and Government Documents between States; and the Convention on  the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of  Ownership of Cultural Property. In respect at least of the last-mentioned Conven-  tion, delegates will appreciate that administrative machinery and legislation may  be required prior to accession. My government is actively considering these  requirements.
8.12 Mr President, Unesco is unique among the Specialized Agencies of the United  Nations in the breadth of its areas of competence. Thus, it has a unique oppor-  tunity to approach world problems in an interdisciplinary fashion. We welcome the  interdisciplinary presentation of the new draft programme, and hope that its imple-  mentation will involve a matching administrative response. It is in the science  programme that the value of an interdisciplinary approach can be most clearly seen.  Scientific advances so often develop in separate scientific compartments. We can  understand some of the divisions which are evident in Major Programme X I  but we  urge Unesco to break down the dividing walls between scientific disciplines and,  further, to pay special attention to the impact of scientific advances on social  and cultural issues. Major Programme VI offers special possibilities for this  approach.
8.13 Mr President, we appreciate the difficulty the Director-General faces in  pursuing the ideas of equity, justice and peace for all individuals and people in  a world in which so much is expected of the United Nations and its Specialized
43 1    Agencies and in which any shortcomings become a target for criticism. Too often,  support for idealistic ventures is quickly withdrawn in a period of economic  recession such as we are living in now. However, since the economic problems of  each one of us are related to our collective problems, the only effective solu-  tions to these problems will be solutions collectively formulated and implemented  in a co-operative manner. The economic recession makes the work of Unesco even  more urgent and relevant now than it was in more prosperous times.
8.14 Mr President, Unesco was established to contribute to peace and interna-  tional understanding through intellectual co-operation. We believe that this  fundamental purpose can best be served through co-operative, practical action. We  Australians are a practical people. We like to think we are tolerant; we like to  think we are co-operative; we want to support an organization whose commitment to  practical action can be realized despite the pressing political problems which  absorb so many of its members. It is involvement in effective programmes which in  the long run will sustain the support of Member States.
8.15 In this context Australia is particularly mindful of the serious political,  social and economic strains confronting many of its developing country partners.  Unesco can play an important role by ensuring that its operational programmes are  focused on the practical needs of its member countries.
8.16 In the same way we want Unesco to be seen to be an organization primarily  concerned with action rather than - to use the present vocabulary - reflection. I  am not advocating all of one approach and none of the other, for we are fully con-  scious of the need for every activity to be based on a firm and proper understand-  ing of the problem involved. We similarly understand that it will often be neces-  sary for Unesco to mount its own basic research programme. We support such work  provided there is a demonstrated link between the research and the proposed pro-  grame action, and provided that the research is aimed at the causes, rather than  the symptoms, of the world problems which properly fall within Unesco's purview.
8.17 Our concern for practical action-oriented research will be reflected  domestically as well. I intend to review the work of the Australian National Com-  mission for Unesco to ensure that projects supported by it fulfil the requirements  we are making of Unesco itself.
8.18 Mr President, I have approved the Director-General's emphasis on equity,  justice and peace and I have referred to the importance of the practical elements  of Unesco's programmes. With this in mind I should like to compliment the  Director-General particularly on the general thrust of the proposals in the field  of education. As Minister for Education I have a particular interest in many of  the activities proposed in Major Programme II, 'Education for all'. My government's  commitment to action in this field within Australia is reflected in its new Partici-  pation and Equity Programme.
8.19 This programme is aimed at reform in secondary schooling. The need for  such reform is clearly demonstrated by the low participation rates of Australian  pupils in the later years of secondary schooling. In spite of our relative afflu-  ence and the universal provision of secondary schooling, only one-third of our  young people complete a full six years of secondary education. This figure is far  too low and compares unfavourably with other OECD countries. It is particularly  unacceptable to our government because it is the children of poor families, of  some migrant groups and of Aboriginals who are failing to complete secondary school  and are thus, at a time of high unemployment, seriously disadvantaged in comparison  with middle-class children who generally do complete secondary schooling. The  changes that we plan through the Participation and Equity programme will include  changes in the curriculum and changes in the curriculum and changes in school  organization, so that all children, regardless of their ethnic or cultural back-  ground or sex, will find appropriate and interesting education or formal training  at the secondary level.
8.20 Mr President, the Director-General has an unenviable task in administering  programmes in a community of 160 Member States so diverse in their history, their  culture, their needs and their hopes for the future. There are some aspects of  Unesco's endeavours where we feel there is more to be gained from regional action  to bring together countries with common concerns. We therefore strongly support  activities designed to bring about a shift in the adn?inistration of the Organiza-  tion from the present concentration here in Paris to places much closer to the  scene of programme delivery. In the years between Conference sessions we have  noted some changes, and indeed we strongly support the way in which the Regional  Office in Bangkok is structured and administered. We welcome the proposal to  establish Unesco presence on a small scale in one of the Pacific Member States.  But this can only be a beginning. A more concerted effort, indeed a strong policy  commitment, must be made to bring about further change. We therefore wish to
432    compliment the Director-General on the decentralization proposals which he has out-  lined in his introduction to the draft programme and budget. We fully support his  proposals to make such administrative changes, or changes to regulations, as may  be required to speed up the process.
8.21 One of the areas of endeavour in which regional action is especially effec-  tive is education. In this field we are in favour of co-operative action and the  sharing of experience among the nations of the Asia and Pacific region, especially  through the Asian Programme of Educational Innovation for Deveiopment and the new  Regional Co-operative Programme in Higher Education.
8.22 At the same time as New Zealand, we became a menber of the Asia and the  Pacific region for programme purposes at the eighteenth session of the General Con-  ference, and our association with our neighbours in that context has encouraged us  both to seek membership of the region for electoral purposes as well. Distinguished  delegates will be aware of the Constitutional amendment which has been subnitted by  Australia and New Zealand. That amendment, Mr President, seeks to do three things:  firstly, it seeks the approval of the General Conference for the transfer of  Australia and New Zealand from Electoral Group I to Electoral Group IV; secondly,  and to take account of the move from Group I to Group IV, the approval of the  General Conference is sought to increase the size of the Executive Board by one  seat; finally, the approval of the General Conference is sought to allocate the  additional Executive Board seat so created to Group IV. Our reasons for seeking  the agreement of the General Conference to these changes are outlined in the state-  ment attached to our proposal, so I will not repeat that explanation. I hope that  distinguished delegates will be able to understand our position and, at the appro-  priate time, to support our proposal.
8.23 Mr President, I wish to conclude this address by reaffirming the commitment  of the Australian Government to the work of Unesco. In the coming weeks my delega-  tion will be seeking to play a positive and constructive role in the debates and  discussions of this Conference. Our approach will follow the broad principles  which I have outlined in this address. There will be occasions on which we may  express views quite different from those expressed by others. We do not see that  the expression of such differences should be regarded as a weakness of the Organi-  zation; on the contrary, they should be seen as one of its strengths, for they  represent a dialogue between people separated by many factors of geography, his-  tory and economic development. Such a dialogue, of course, involves tolerance  towards others - towards their views, their cultures and their aspirations. Where  there is tolerance, there is the true spirit of international co-operation. Thank  you, Mr President.
(9.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  thank her for her kind congratulations. I now give the floor to Mrs Melina Mercouri,  Minister for Culture and Science and head of the Greek delegation.  I thank the head of the Australian delegation for her valuable address. I also
10.1 Mme MERCOURI (Grèce) :  ministres, chers délégués, chers amis, inutile de vous dire, d'emblée, combien je  me sens ici dans cette Maison comme chez moi, et combien j'apprécie et appuie de  tout mon coeur les efforts que cette Organisation fait pour la culture et pour la  compréhension entre les peuples, ou plus simplement pour l'homme et son identité.
10.2 Nous vivons dans un monde de crise, je dirais même de folie, et je me sens  ici comme dans le refuge du bon sens et de l'espoir. Bon sens qui dicte quel'acczs
5 la culture c'est l'accès au bien-être, 5 la qualité de la vie, mais aussi, et  encore plus, aux droits élémentaires des hommes au travail et 5 la dignité.
10.3 Messieurs les délégués, je suis heureuse de pouvoir dire que le Projet de  programme et de budget soumis 5 notre réflexion aujourd'hui est un document qui  ouvre de larges perspectives dans tous les domaines de compétence de l'Unesco.  C'est un document en prise directe sur notre temps. Car si notre monde se révèle  à ce point interdépendant, c'est la première fois qu'une prise de conscience des  problèmes se développe avec une telle ampleur. Cette prise de conscience ébranle  les idées reçues, remet en question des ordres séculaires, active les dynamiques  latentes et met en mouvement de nouvelles forces sociales.  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur ie Directeur général, Messieurs les
10.4 Au seuil de l'avenir, qui sera ce que nous en ferons, nous nous interro-  geons sur les chemins à prendre - ou plutôt sur les chemins à ouvrir : "Voyageur,  le chemin n'existe pas, le chemin tu le fais en marchant", nous dit Antonio  Machado.
10.5 Mais la recherche de réponses que l'Unesco contribue à promouvoiràtravers  l'objectif d'un nouvel ordre économique international est heureusement fondée sur  une nouvelle conception aussi bien du développement que des rapports entre les pays.
10.6 Le développement est en fait la résultante des processus se déroulant si-  multanément aussi bien dans le domaine économique que dans les domaines social,  culturel et politique, processus qui restent interdépendants même si leurs rythmes  sont souvent différents.
10.7 Dans son sens premier, le mot "développement", notion d'une granderichesse,  signifie déploiement, extension, projection, essor : le développement, c'est le  devenir à partir de l'être.
10.8 Dans cette perspective, il me semble, Monsieur le Président, que la pré-  sentation par grands programmes du Projet de programme et de budget pour 1984-1985  correspond 2 la réalité complexe des problèmes auxquels nous sommes confrontés.  L'approche multidisciplinaire et intersectorielle de la mission de l'Unesco est  d'une richesse et d'une souplesse stimulantes pour une réflexion approfondie et  une action sans doute efficace.
10.9 Chers amis, l'Unesco - avec sagesse - est profondément attachée aux droits  de l'homme : ils impliquent le droit au travail, et nous voici confrontés aux iné-  galités sociales et à la montée du chômage.
10.10 Ils impliquent le droit à la liberté, et nous sommes interpellés partoutes  les restrictions imposées à la liberté physique et à la liberté de conscience des  personnes et des groupes.
10.11 Ils impliquent le droit à l'éducation, et les regards de 800 millions  d'analphabètes convergent sur cette ville et cette salle.
10.12 Ils impliquent le droit à l'information, et les formes que peut prendre la  manipulation informatique nous hantent.
10.13 Ils impliquent le droit à la dignité, au respect de l'identité culturelle,  et ils rejoignent les droits des peuples, car l'intolérance et le racisme margina-  lisent et oppriment des groupes plus que des individus.
10.14 Ils impliquent le droit à la différence et surtout, fondamentalement, les  droits de l'homme impliquent le droit à la vie. C'est donc là la responsabilitéde  cette Organisation : rendre à l'homme son humanité et son bon sens.
10.15 C'est dans cet esprit que la Grèce se propose de faire de sa petite Ilede  Halki, dans la mer Egée, un lieu de rencontres et d'échanges entre jeunes du monde  entier, et c'est grâce à vous, Monsieur le Directeur général, que cette grande  fête de la jeunesse se déroule pour la première fois en ce moment même, avec l'aide  si justifiée et si naturelle de l'Unesco. Nous sommes enfin, et dans le même état  d'esprit, très touchés par les efforts que déploie l'Unesco en faveur de la pro-  motion des échanges culturels en Méditerranée, cette matrice de cultures, la mer - notre mer - qui baigne des rivages OU pousse l'olivier.
10.16 Chers délégués, il va sans dire que la Grèce attache une grande importance  aux activités prévues dans le Projet de programme et de budget qui intéressent le  secteur de la science et de la technologie. I1 y a quelques jours seulement, nous  avons commémoré en Grèce, en collaboration avec l'Unesco, le 2.500e anniversaire  de la naissance de Démocrite, qui est passé dans l'histoire comme le "père de
1 ' a tome " .
10.17 La Grèce, tout en souscrivant aux activités prévues dans le Projet de  programme et de budget en matière de science et de technologie, tient à marquer  son intérêt particulier pour deux domaines : l'océanographie d'une part et les  sciences humaines de l'autre. Pays maritime par excellence, la Grèce estencontact  direct et continu avec la mer. La pénurie d'eau potable rejoint la pénurie de  matières alimentaires, de protéines, d'eau, qui est ressentie 2 l'échellemondiaìe.  Ces faits rendent à nos yeux impérative la prospection des ressources que peuvent  offrir les mers et les océans. Notre intérêt pour les sciences de la mer procède  donc de la nature des choses. Ceci explique aussi notre appui à la recommandation  du Conseil exécutif de l'Unesco qui tend à augmenter les crédits prévus dans le  Projet de programme et de budget pour l'océanographie.
10.18 11 me revient aussi, Monsieur le Président, de faire part de l'intérêt que  porte mon gouvernement au Fonds international pour la promotion de ia culture. Le  Fonds assume un rôle d'incitation et de promotion dans les domaines de la création  et de la communication culturelles, un rôle à effets multiplicateurs qui laisse  espérer un développement encore plus important de ses activités à l'avenir. I1  nous apparaît que le Fonds international pour la promotion de la culture allie à  la noblesse de sa mission la souplesse des structures, garantissant ainsi aux  efforts déployés un maximum d'efficacité.
10.19 Par ailleurs, je trouve que la création d'un Comité intergouvernemental  pour la promotion du retour de biens culturels à leur pays d'origine ou de leur  restitution en cas d'appropriation illégale est une entreprise admirable et juste.  Je n'ai pas besoin de vous dire avec quelle force le gouvernement grec a pris  position sur ce sujet.
10.20 J'aimerais, Monsieur le Président, me référer brièvement aux textes nor-  matifs que notre Organisation contribue 2 promouvoir. I1 est évident que, bienque  souvent longuement négociés, ces textes ne constituent pas le reflet de pratiques  universelles. Mais quel révélateur de contradictions recelant une dynamique de  profondes transformations de nos sociétés ! Quel formidable outil à la disposition  des forces sociales agissantes ! Mon pays se propose de traduire en grec et de  diffuser largement pendant l'année 1984, déclarée par notre gouvernement "Année de  la santé, de 1 ' éducation et de la culture" , la "Recommandation sur 1 ' éducation pour  la compréhension, la coopération et la paix internationales, et l'éducation  relative aux droits de l'homme et aux libertés fondamentales", ainsi que la "Re-  commandation concernant la condition du personnel enseignant".
10.21 S'il fallait résumer le sens de ce qui est tenté dans le cadre des missions  de l'Unesco, dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture, je  dirais qu'il s'agit dans tous les cas et partout de créer et d'élargir les espaces  de liberté.
10.22 En prenant la parole dans cette enceinte, j'ai conscience que nous nous  engageons, nous tous qui sommes ici réunis, et que nous faisons un pari sur le  futur de nos sociétés et sur l'avenir du monde. Mais il s'agit d'un futurpossible,  donc réalisable.
10.23 Dans un texte de Robert Musil, je lis : "Un événement et une vérité pos-  sibles ne sont pas égaux à un événement et une vérité réels moins la valeur "réa-  lité", mais contiennent (...) un feu, une envolée, une volonté de bâtir, uneutopie  consciente qui, loin de redouter la réalité, la traite simplement comme une tâche  et une invention perpétuelles". N'est-ce pas là le sens de nos efforts ?
10.24 Monsieur le Directeur général, hier soir vous avez terminé en nous parlant  de la guerre et de la paix et souligné que personne ne désire vraiment une confla-  gration générale et que pourtant les valeurs de solidarité, de justice et de tolé-  rance, principaux remparts de la paix, paraissent tragiquement négligées.
10.25 Comme disait, il y a quelques jours, notre Premier ministre Andreas Papan-  dreou, "Qui est le romantique dans notre monde, celui qui prévoit la catastropheou  celui qui ne la voit pas ?" qui ne voit pas que les déséquilibres entre riches et  pauvres sèment les tempétes, que les guerres locales, faites souvent par procu-  ration, sont partout dans le monde signe d'insécurité pour le genre humain, que la  course aux armements peut à chaque instant quelque part déraper vers la guerre  totale ?
10.26 Alors certainement c'est i~ous, nous de l'Unesco chargés de défendre l'édu-  cation, la science et laculture,qui devons agir.
10.27 Je lance un appel à cette Conférence afin qu'elle vote une r6solution  d'action, une action ?i laquelle personne ne pourra faire la sourde oreille. Je  vous demande que nous de l'Unesco fassions appel à tous les peuples du Nord, du  Sud, de l'Est et de l'ouest, le plus vite possible avant d'arriver "aux frontières  de l'irréparable", au point de non-retour.
10.28 Qu'à l'heure OU sonne midi, chaque homme, femme et enfant arrête ses acti-  vités pendant une minute. Que les enfants et leurs enseignants dans les écoles se  lèvent de leurs pupitres, que partout les ouvriers posent leurs outils, que la  circulation s'arrête. Qu'à cette minute de silence et d'action, le législateur, le  juge ou le soldat participent. I1 est temps que les peuples prennent en charge la  responsabilité de la défense de la paix et militent pour la raison et le bon sens.
10.29 Quant à moi, chers amis, je proposerai dans mon pays que tous les hommes  et les femmes de culture se mobilisent et deviennent militants de la paix. A la  date dite, la tragédienne s'arreterait sur un vers d'Eschyle ou de Shakespeare, le
435    musicien lèverait l'archet sur une note de Beethoven, l'homme ou la f e m e  de télé-  vision suspendrait les nouvelles de ce monde inquiétant et cruel. Car c'est dans la  nuit qu'on pleure et qu'on veille les morts en attendant l'aurore. Je vous remercie.
(21.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  H.E. Mr Yahya Mahfoodh Al-Manthary, Minister €or Education and Youth Affairs and Head of  the Delegation of the Sultanate of Oman.  I thank the head of the Greek delegation for her address. I now give the floor to
(12.1) Mr AL-MANTEiARY (Oman) (Translation from the Arabic) :  Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, my most hearty,  greetings.
(12.2) I have the pleasure, at the beginning of my remarks, to offer particular congratu-  lations to the President of the twenty-second session of the General Conference, both on  my own behalf and on behalf of the delegation of the Sultanate of Oman. We are confident  of his wisdom and knowledge, and we have no doubt that his excellent management of the  deliberations of this session will enable us to attain our ends.
(12.3) It gives me real pleasure to convey to the General Conference the greetings Of His  Majesty Sultan Qaboos Bin Said, together with his best wishes for the Conference's cuccess-  ful' achievement objectives and accomplishment of its mission.  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the-Executive Board,
(12.4) Mr President, we are meeting today to consider the future activities of the first  biennial period of the second Medium-Term Plan; those activities are covered by the Draft  Programme and Budget for 1984-1985, published as document 22 C/5. The distinguishing  feature of this draft programme and budget is that Unesco's programmes, in accordance with  the resolutions of the previous session of the General Conference, will apply henceforth  to the same biennial periods as those of other United Nations organizations. We have  studied document 22 C/5 carefully and attentively and are happy to observe that it is in  keeping with the guidelines adopted by the General Conference at its fourth extraordinary  session and compatible with the spirit of the resolutions and recommendations approved by  several international and regional conferences in the fields of education, science and cul-  tural policies. In this connection, I should like, Mr President, to praise the efforts and  diligence of the Director-General of Unesco and his colleagues in the preparation of this  document which is, as the Director-General indicated in his introduction, proof of Unesco's  readiness 'to contribute to a harmonization of the programmes and to the improvement of co-  ordination and co-operation within the United Nations system'.
(12.5) Mr President, allow me to express my delegation's realization of and satisfaction  with the judicious methodology and planning procedures that have been followed in the  formulation of the draft programme and budget now before us. It is evident, as the  Director-General indicatedinhis comprehensive introduction, that themajor programmes and sub-  programmes set forth in the secondMedium-TermPlanconstitutethebases fortheproposals con-  tainedinthedraftprogramme andbudget. It is thus closelylinkedwith the-general policy of  the Organization and is based on the fundamental principles and noble mission of Unesco,  namely the establishment of peace, justice and the dignity of the individual through con-  sideration of and concern with activities and proposals aimed at the achievement of fur-  ther progress in education, science and cultural policies. Special attention is devoted  to the needs of Member States and the devslopment of their capacities in the fields of  research and the improvement of methods of education. The fact that the draft programme  and budget contains a subprogramme wholly devoted to the educational sciences and their  application to the renewal of the educational process (under Major Programme IV, 'The  Formulation and Application of Educational Policies') is cause for optimism and hope, as  this shows that the draft programme and budget takes into account the concerns and choices  of the developing countries in particular and is compatible with the national development  plans of Member States.
(12.6) I should like, with the President's permission, to make a few general observations  regarding some of the proposals contained in the draft programme and budget, while at the  same time reiterating our endorsement of its contents as a whole. Major Programmes II,  IV and V contain important innovations with respect to a number of activities which for  many years Unesco has been directing towards the goal of education for all. I may mention,  in particular, the activities related to the imp,rovement of science teaching, agriculture  teaching, and the training of educational personnel in rural areas, as well as the forth-  coming studies on educational research policies. It gives us great pleasure to note that  the main objects here are to promote the efforts of Member States, support their initiat-  ives, encourage regional and international co-operation and further the co-ordination and  exchange of ideas and knowledge in the various fields of education.
(12.7) This approach is particularly relevant for the Sultanate of Oman, for we believe  in the need to make education universal, and are planning for the achievement of equal  access to education as an essential right of every Omani citizen. A glance at the pres-  ent state of modern Omani society is enough to show that even in the short period since  the accession of His Majesty Sultan Qaboos Bin Said, educational development has made  steady progress. From the outset, a clear philosophy was adopted, a philosophy based on  the achievement of education for all by providing equal access to all without discrimina-  tion.. Thus, education has become the right of every Omani citizen. The Omani Government  pays special attention to the promotion of lifelong education, adult education and liter-  acy €or those whose circumstances are such that they have not had the benefit of education  or have been unable to complete it. One of the important qualities of educational devel-  opment in the Sultanate is the increase in activities directed at the education of girls  and women. Thanks to these activities, women now have a great influence on and play a  notable role in the economic, social and educational fields in Oman today. The educational  policy of the Sultanate focuses on the original features of Omani society and stresses its  ancient cultural heritage, with its Arab and Islamic roots. It is hoped, Mr President,  that these efforts will go forward in collaboration with Unesco through the latter's educa-  tional programmes, particularly those relating to the promotion of national capabilities in  the field of educational planning, organization and administration, and the training of per-  sonnel in the field of education, literacy and teaching in the rural environment as well as  personnel specialized in the teaching of the handicapped.
(12.8) Mr President, concern with formal education, culture, and social education, and with  co-ordination and co-operation in the development and advancement of these things, sig-  nifies, in actual fact, consolidation of the bonds of unity and friendship between the dif-  ferent States, in order to establish lasting peace based on justice, equality and mutual  respect. It also means confrontation of all obstacles to such human unity. Since its  inception, Unesco has played a prominent and distinctive role in striving to overcome all  obstacles to the future of peace and stability in the world, whether these be the accumula-  tion and modernization of weapons of destruction and annihilation, the violation of human  rights, or the vileness of racism and intolerance. It is small wonder that activities  aimed at the establishment of peace and the promotion of understanding and co-operation  between nations have been at the forefront of the permanent objectives of this Organiza-  tion, This Organization has, over the years, exerted tremendous efforts to present these  issues and build public awareness of the need for joint efforts to overcome the obstacles  to peace and stability. This can only be achieved through co-operation and understanding  and by encouraging consultation between educational institutions, thus consolidating the  pillars of education and creating a better world in which friendship and goodwill rather  than hatred and intolerance prevail.
(12.9) The Organization, to its credit, has clarified many of the negative effects and  political, economic and social dimensions of these dangers. This has been achieved through
438    studies and research undertaken at its initiative and under its auspices at regional and 5  international conferences held for the purpose within the United Nations system. The draft  programe and budget now before us gives due attention to methods of achieving these objec-  tives, including the proposed activities regarding the use of education and communication  and information resources, the undertaking of research on factors leading to intolerance  and violations of human rights, and greater efforts to identify and describe policies and  practices that generate and encourage intolerance and racism.
(12.10) On the basis of the teachings of our faith and its cultural heritage, the Sultanate  of Oman approves and supports all the proposed activities dealing with the promotion of  peace, friendship and mutual understanding between peoples. We are convinced that it is  essential to preserve the dignity of the individual and his right to a happy, meaningful  life regardless of race or religion.
(12.11) In conclusion, Mr President, we approve of and support all Unesco's efforts to  overcome illiteracy, ignorance, poverty and disease, We hope the General Conference will  see fit to adopt the resolutions which will enable the Organization to implement its pro-  grammes, continue its efforts and fulfil its great mission in accordance with its Constitu-  tion, thus helping to bring about .the advent of a better future in which solidarity and  respect for the principles of justice and tolerance will prevail. Thank you Mr President.  Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you.
(13.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank H.E. Mr Yahya Mahfoodh Al-Manthary for his address. I also thank him for  his kind words of congratulation. I now give the floor to H.E. Mr Daniel Coens, Minister  of Education and head of the Belgian delegation.
14.1 M. COENS (Belgique) :  Mesdames, Messieurs, avant de commencer mon exposé, je voudrais exprimer ma joie  et ma satisfaction de pouvoir féliciter le Président nouvellement élu de la vingt-  deuxième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco, M. Teil, mon collègue de  Jordanie. Je désire en outre rendre hommage à tous ceux qui ont participé à la  préparation de cette session, et surtout à ceux qui ont travaillé au prochain  Plan 21 moyen terme, qui compte 15.070 paragraphes.
14.2 I1 est rare que des conférences internationales comme la présente fassent  sensation au point que les médias en fassent la vedette de l'information, et c'est  regrettable. Toutefois , l'importance qu'a cette conférence pour les populations de  nos pays n'est pas moindre que celle d'entretiens économiques ou stratégiques et  militaires.  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, chers collègues,
14.3 Tout comme la concertation économique internationale, la présente concer-  tation a pour but de modifier la répartition des chances dans le monde, par le  changement du comportement des Etats, des peuples, des groupes et des individus.  Elle a pour objectifs d'offrir de meilleures possibilités de développementa chaque  individu et de garantir le respect de la différence, la non-discrimination et la  paix. A cet effet, la politique éducative, sociale et culturelle est un instrument  e x t rême men t imp0 r t an t.
14.4 I1 est important de planifier ces politiques. La planification oblige en  effet 2 formuler de façon explicite et exacte les objectifs, à établir des prio-  rités et à évaluer celles-ci en termes budgétaires.
14.5 L'Unesco est incontestablement une importante plate-forme internationale  de réflexion dans notre société actuelle. Je tiens à reconnaître formellement que  les réunions, études et recommandations de l'Unesco ont souvent inspiré la poli-  tique belge - tant de la communauté flamande que de la communauté française - en  matière d'éducation et de culture.
14.6 Inspiré par les importantes contributions de l'Unesco en la matière, notre  pays s'oriente actuellement vers la "Learning Society". Après une période OU l'ac-  cent a été mis sur la démocratisation de l'enseignement en fonction d'un "appeleux  réserves de talent", nous avons définitivement opté pour "1 'éducation pour tous".
14.7 Cela se traduit notamment par la loi concernant la prolongation de la sco-  larité obligatoire votée en juin dernier sur notre proposition. Par cette loi, en  effet, nous avons prolongé la scolarité obligatoire jusqu'à 18 ans. Cette même loi  prévoit le développement ou la reconnaissance officielle des types de formationqui  s'écartent du modèle strictement scolaire et qui sont davantage orientés versl'ac-  tivité professionnelle. La loi instaure entre 16 et 18 ans un régime de scolarité
439    obligatoire à temps partiel ou choisi qui permet des formules d'intégration du  travail productif au processus éducatif, comme le prévoit le sous-programme V.3.1.  Cette intégration pourrait se réaliser par exemple sous forme d'enseignement par  alternance ou de contrats d'apprentissage dans l'industrie comme dans les petites  et moyennes entreprises. Cette diversification de l'enseignement implique également  que la responsabilité de toute éducation et de toute formation n'incombe pas uni-  quement à l'enseignement, mais à la société tout entière. Dans ce cadre, les entre-  prises doivent jouer pleinement leur rôle.
14.8 Un deuxième pas important dans ce sens est l'obligation pour les entre-  prises d'engager 3 % de stagiaires, une partie de ces emplois étant réservée aux  jeunes qui suivent la formation pratique professionnelle à laquelle j 'ai fait  allusion.
14.9 Un troisième pas important - et là, il y a encore beaucoup à faire - est  le développement de la formation permanente. Cette formation permanente est déjà  bien structurée en Belgique, notamment au niveau des activités socioculturelles.  Cependant, il faudra encore l'élargir et surtout la coordonner sur le plan de la  formation permanente orientée vers l'activité professionnelle.
14.10 Spécialement en notre qualité de responsables de la politique de l'ensei-  gnement, nous devons fournir une trSs importante contribution à la réalisation de  la compréhension internationale, du respect des droits de l'homme, de la tolérance  et de la paix, car nous sommes responsables de la formation des futurs citoyens du  monde.
14.11 Dans ce domaine, la priorité doit être accordée Z l'élimination des pré-  jugés et de l'intolérance à l'égard de certains groupes de la société. La Belgique  a toujours été un pays d'accueil pour de nombreuses cultures et nationalités. Cet  esprit d'hospitalité se traduit, depuis de nombreuses années déjà, par la complète  égalité de toutes les religions dans l'enseignement, y compris quant 2 la rémuné-  ration du personnel enseignant. Nous voulons continuer à agir dans cette voie.
14.12 C'est aussi au nom de cette hospitalité que la Belgique garantit le droit  à l'enseignement gratuit pour tous les enfants de parents résidant légalement dans  le pays quels que soient leur nationalité, leur race, leur sexe. Dans cemêmecadre,  qui se situe parfaitement dans l'esprit du sous-programme 11.6.3, nous avons éia-  boré une réponse originale à la présence des enfants immigrés dans nos écoles :  nous l'appelons "Enseignement de rencontre". Cette formule est basée sur trois  principes complémentaires : le droit à l'encadrement supplémentaire (en matière de  langue) pour les enfants de migrants: le droit Z des cours dispensés dans leur  langue maternelle et relatifs à leur propre culture; mais surtout, une approche  positive de la pluriculturalité. Celle-ci pose peut-être quelques problèmes mais  elle n'est pas un problème en soi. Au contraire, dans la perspective d'un monde de  plus en plus international, elle offre des chances énormes d'enrichissement a tous  les enfants, aussi bien les Belges que les autres.
14.13 La Belgique se propose aussi de mettre tout en oeuvre pour appliquer la  recommandation adoptée à juste titre par l'Unesco en matière d'éducation pour la  compréhension internationale. La compréhension internationale doit se traduire  dans toute la formation et dans la vie quotidienne à l'école. Aussi est-elle inté-  grée à l'enseignement universitaire, aux programmes d'études et à la formation des  formateurs. Participent également à ce travail essentiel les organisations non  gouvernementales ainsi que les Ecoles associées et les clubs Unesco.
14.14 Tout comme un nouvel ordre économique mondial se construit à l'aide de  nouvelles formes d'interdépendance et de coopération économique, le nouvel ordre  culturel international que nous souhaitons tous sera la conséquence des interdé-  pendances culturelles et éducatives que nous développerons dans le monde. Je crois  aux possibilités de la synergie dans le domaine culturel et éducatif. Dans notre  pays, deux organisations, l'une néeslandophone et l'autre francophone, s'attachent  à mener une action dans ce domaine par l'envoi d'enseignants dans les pays en dé-  veloppement qui en font la demande, en veillant à ne pas porter atteinte au dyna-  misme et à l'identité culturelle des pays concernés. C'est sous cet angle quenous  voyons également les échanges universitaires, en accueillant prioritairement dans  nos universités les étudiants étrangers poursuivant des études postuniversitaires  OU des études qui ne peuvent être menées dans leur pays d'origine. Parallèlement,  nous avons choisi de participer à la formation des enseignants ou des formateurs,  en nous intégrant ainsi au dynamisme local et en faisant en sorte que notre pré-  sence devienne, à terme, superflue. Une telle interdépendance internationale dans  le domaine de l'éducation et de la culture contribue considérablement 2 la compré-  hension internationale et au nouvel ordre éducatif et culturel international dont  nous souhaitons tous l'instauration.
14.15 Paraphrasant un passage du discours prononcé par le Directeur général,  M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, lors de l'ouverture de la session, je dirai en conclusion
440    qu'une des tâches essentielles de l'Unesco est de multiplier, dans tous les do-  maines de sa compétence, les contacts et les échanges, d'agir sous le signe de la  justice, du respect des droits de l'homme et de la tolérance. A l'heure OU les  tensions montent et OU la crise - et c'est une chance qu'elle offre malgré tout -  nous contraint 2 des choix, il. est plus que jamais nécessaire de développer par  l'éducation, la culture, la science et la communication les zones de convergence  OU se retrouvent les intérêts vitaux de toute l'humanité. Je vous remercie.
(15.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  his congratulations. I now give the floor to Mr Armando Hart Dávalos, Minister of Culture  and head of the Cuban delegation.  I thank the head of the Belgian delegation for his address. I also thank him fot
(16.1) Mr HART DÁVALOS (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish) :  this Conference, and express my gratitude to the Director-General and his colleagues for  their work in preparing the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985.
(16.2) I would like you all to be very much aware of the state of mind and the situation  in which I am addressing you, at a time when a heroic band of my compatriots, as well as  very dear comrades from Grenada, have lost their lives.
(16.3) The scope and depth of the economic, political, social and cultural problems which  have been accumulating. and are reflected in one way or another in educatkon, science and  culture, weigh heavily on this the twenty-second session of the General Conference of  Unesco, making it extremely difficult for me to attempt even a brief summary of the situa-  tion we are called upon to face.
(16.4) In a meeting of officials having important responsibilities in their own countries,  ?o fittingly serious review is possible of the dramatic educational and cultural situation  of mankind without a consideration of the dramatic international economic and social situa-  tion, the problems of war and peace, and the problems of increasing violence throughout the  world.
(16.5) The poor countries are becoming increasingly poor. The rich in the west have failed  to understand that in the midst of growing poverty there is no happiness for either rich or  poor, It is argued that the crisis can be solved by more efficient exploitation, but in  Mr President, may I first of all congratulate you on your election as President of
444    the final analysis this merely makes it worse. The people refuse to accept this, and as  the crisis becomes more acute they seek changes of a revolutionary nature'or through pro-  cesses of social transformation.
(16-6) If we were to ask for the resources required to develop education and culture in the  poor countries, and to provide their peoples with the necessary levels of scientific infor-  mation and know-how, the figures would amount to hundreds of billions of dollars. No  accounting system, no financial mentality could take up such a challenge. Yet tragically  the financial mentality exists which devotes to military expenditure sums far exceeding  those which we could reasonably request for education, science and culture.
(16.7) I appeal to the civilized minds of those who work in libraries, laboratories, aca-  demic centres, scientific institutions, to communities of artists, university students and  schoolteachers: Is such rank folly to be tolerated in silence, without sounding t.he alarm?  It is an absurdity, totally devoid of logic, of any sense cf the future, of justice or of  culture. It is a sign that man is still back in the Stone Age:
(16.8) Against this background it is obvious,that our best plan will be one which is  capable of rechannelling the resources now devoted to the arms race for the benefit of  education, science and culture. We are all cultivated men and women endowed with intel-  ligence and awareness, whose basic principle is a love of science and education. It is  precisely this which distinguishes us from animals. We can only take up the challenge  facing us if the foundations are first laid for a new order in international economic  relations; for a radical change in the economic policies of the developed western coun-  tries; and for a complete review of the attitudes towards war and peace prevailing in  many of the former colonial countries.
(16-9) The question is whether Unesco can succeed in achieving its lofty aims by finding  formulae whereby the massive resources now devoted to the arms race could be used to solve  these problems. It is not possible that the principles of Unesco, and those embodied in  the Charter of the United Nations, should be no more than an illusion. I for one reject  such a bitter conclusion, This is the ultimate choice facing us: war or peace; barbar-  ity or culture; destruction or human life.
(16.10) The world is in the throes of violence; this is apparent in what goes on every  day in the most far-flung corners of the earth, where millions of people are dying from  famine, diseases which could be cured, or as the victims of tyranny, agression and war.  I shall make particular reference to the history of the Caribbean and Central America in  order to denounce in this forum the crime perpetrated against Grenada and a group of Cuban  specialists and workers. I introduced the subject in the general'policy debate, citing  José YartS's saying that silence in the presence of a crime is tantamount to complicity.
(16.11) The oligarchic government of the United States is wont to relate its interventions  in the Caribbean to the problem of what it calls 'east-west conflicts'. The much-respected  Paris newspaper 'Le Monde' recently published an informative synopsis of United States mili-  tary interventions in the region, showing that they go back to long before the historical  period covered by these 'east-west conflicts'.  United States imperialism against the peoples of the Caribbean; but they are highly  significant.
(16.12) Nearly one hundred years ago a brilliant Cuban, a man of culture, predicted what  would occur in the Caribbean: he was José Martí, I ask you, fellow delegates, to give  some quiet thought to the following extracts from the writings of this our Cuban national  hero. In a letter of 1884, referring to the United States, he wrote that I... In thiq  unruly, vast, turbulent and magnificant country, life is no more or less than the pursuit  of wealth. This is the canker of its greatness; a disease which is gnawing at its  entrails, pervading its entire body, driving it mad, defacing and deforming it'. In 1889,  on the occasion of the First Pan-American Congress, held in Washington, Marti had the  foresight to note that 'Never has there occurred in America, since independence, an event  which calls for more judgement and wisdom, such clear and detailed examination, as the  invitation now extended by a powerful United States - overflowing with products for which  it has no market, and determined to expand its sphere of influence on the American  continent - an invitation to the smaller American nations, linked by valuable free trade  to the peoples of Europe, to league themselves against Europe and cease dealings with the  rest of the world'.
(16-13) In an article published in 1894 Marti wrote that 'Evenly balanced between North  and South America stand the West Indies. If enslaved, they would be used to provide an  imperialistic republic with a bridgehead into a world which is superior to it, which mis-  trusts it and is already preparing to resist it; they would be a mere outpost of a modern  Roman Empire. But if free - and the West Indies deserve to be free, with their respect for  freedom before the law, including freedom to work - they would guarantee the stability of  the Continent and the still-threatened independence of Spanish-speaking America. Their  freedom would also redound to the honour of the great northern republic, which would find  that true greatness lies in developing its own still shamefully feudal territory, divided  into warring sections, rather than in the ignoble conquest of its smaller neighbours,  whose annexation would involve the great powers in a deadly conflict for world supremacy'.  Fellow delegates, at that time there were no east-west conflicts. Those were the very  words of José Martl; and they are still strikingly apposite. To quote him again: 'It 1s  not simply a question of liberating two islands; it is a whole world that we shall stabil-  ize'. 'An error in Cuba is an error for all America, indeed for all those alive today. He  who fights alongside Cuba today fights for all time.'  They are thus not the only instances of
(16.14) In a memorable letter to the Mexican, Manuel Mercado, written from the Camp of DOS  Rios, the day before he fell in battle, he said: '... I am risking my l.ife daily for my  country and for my duty, deliberately and unfalteringly, in order to achieve Cuban inde-  pendence in time to prevent the United States from extending itself to the West Indies and  attacking with even greater force our Latin American lands. Everything I have done SO far,  and everything I will do, is with this end in mind'.
(16.15) We have reac-hed a situation which has its origins in all that Marti denounced at  the end of the last century. Applying his words to the present situation, we could say  that the crime perpetrated against Grenada is a monumental error and crime perpetrated  against all those alive today. Intervention on our territory today, in the late twentieth  c'entury, is a more serious error than ever, and could have disastrous consequences on an  incalculable scale.
(16.16) We have here a flagrant act for all to see, and one which should move any man to  the most serious reflection. I ask all the honourable delegates gathered in this assembly  to speak out against the crime perpetrated against Grenada. A small country, whose terri-  tory is smaller than many areas in the United States, has been attacked with impunity by  the largest western military power. And the country has put up a heroic resistance.
(16.17) It is well known that Cuban personnel co-operating in the fields of education,  technology, economics and construction were present in Grenada, many of them working pre-  cisely in the fields of competence of Unesco, under agreements of the type sponsored by  international institutions. Mr Reagan says that he sent his Marines, his fleet and his  army to tiny Grenada in order to protect the lives of the American citizens there. At
9 p.m. on Saturday 22 October, the Cuban Minister of Foreign Affairs contacted the repre-  sentat-ive of the United States in Havana to inform him of Cuba's willingness to co-operate  in order to ensure the safety of all foreigners in Grenada, without interfering in the  country's internal affairs. This willingness expressed by the Cuban authorities received  no reply - and I repeat - no reply, until 25 October, several hours after the commencement  of hostilities against Grenada and the Cuban workers there.
(16.18) The Washington Administration says that it took action in Grenada only after being  invited to intervene by a group of Eastern Caribbean countries. The very fact that a group  of countries consider that they have the right to call on a large power to intervene on the  territory of a third party sets a dangerous precedent. It is not hard to imagine the ter-  rible destabilizing effect of such action and the inherent threat to present-day interna-  tional relations. It is also questionable whether the United States intervention was in  fact in response to an appeal by the aforementioned Eastern Caribbean countries.
(16-19) According to a senior State Department official quoted in an Associated Press dis-  patch, the United States intervention had been decided on as early as the middle of last  week, the Pentagon plans had been drawn up even before then, and the necessary intelligence  had been gathered by Friday; the appeal by the Eastern Caribbean countries is thus no more  than a hurried and ridiculous face-saving attempt to cover up an act of shameless banditry.
(16.20) Lastly, the President of the United States claims that the intervention was moti-  vated by the desire to restore democracy and justice to Grenada. Who are the Government of  the United States, with what moral or historical authority, to proclaim themselves the cham-  pion of democracy in the west? For some considerable time now that country has been the  defender of totalitarian regimes in Latin America and the world: for some considerable time  it has ceased to be a model of democracy.
(16.21) Yet throughout history and in the name of democracy, United States governments have  carried out armed interventions throughout the world. There is not the slightest legal or  moral justification for the aggression against tiny Grenada, an act that has provoked an  outcry from the world at large. The most basic principles of culture in our time require  that Unesco denounce this aggression. It is our duty to condemn United States aggression.
(16.22) In attacking Grenada the United States Government unjustifiably, and with impunity,  assaulted a group of Cuban workers in their living quarters. I should like to say here  that these workers had instructions from the Cuban Government to refrain from being involved,  and to respond only in the event of a direct American attack against them.
(16.23) The United States action in Grenada is a Pyrrhic victory, and constitutes for that  power a humiliating moral defeat. It is a degrading spectacle for a power with vast mili-  tary, technological and economic resources to perpetrate the crime of attacking a small  country of less than 100,000 inhabitants. Cultural and political considerations, and the  conscience of mankind, make it impossible for this crime to go unpunished; history must  not allow it to go unpunished.
(16.24) We call upon the United States delegation to Unesco to explain by virtue of what  right, and what principles of civilization in the modern world, the Government of the United  States brutally provoked carnage in a small Caribbean country. We call on the United States  delegation to tell us here by virtue of what civilizing principles it employed force against  the people of Grenada and a heroic group of Cuban aid personnel.
(16.25) Colleagues and friends, today's revolutionaries speak the language of peace.  Today's reactionaries do not wish to hear the language of wisdom or of peace that we revoi-  utionaries speak. Power has gone to their heads, and some form of action must be taken  against them so as to avoid a repetition, on a universal scale and at an unprecedented levei,  of the tragic events of 1914 and 1939. The crux of the problem is that the representatives  of the military machine have taken over in the United States. The neo-fascists of the LOS  Alamos project, blinded by their own folly, seem not to realize that the world has changed  a great deal in the last forty years, and that should a world war break out even they would  not be spared.
(16.26) Let no one imagine that he could escape from the universal catastrophe with which  the policy of the Reagan-administration is threatening us. Let us face this fact, and the  fact that this threat overhangs all the peoples of the world. Here, on the European stage,  the escalation of the arms race since the installation of new missiles in several western  European countries could lead irreversibly towards world war. In the struggle for peace  there must be increasing involvement of the people at large in all countries, and here  intellectuals can play an outstanding role. Let us all join together to impose recognition  of the principle expressed by that great Mexican, Benito Juárez, that peace is respect for  the rights of others; also to impose recognition of the right of all the world's citizens,  without exception, to the pursuit of happiness.
(16.27) It may well be that it is culture - in the sense of an awareness of our community  life, of the historical memory of everything that has been created, of what we are and  what we could be - which, at this unique moment of time, can restrain the provocations and  hold back the criminal hands of those who threaten us with total destruction. The time has  come for us to assume our responsibilities, irrespective of our philosophical, ideological  and political differences, as human beings fully conscious of the impending danger.
(16.28) It is not by recourse to the theory of power politics advocated by a few reaction-  aries, nor by imagining that we are still in the time of Metternich, that we can guar,antee  lasting peace. This can only come about by transferring to the development of education,  science and culture the resources now devoted to the arms race. We may be accused of wish-  ful thinking, but I believe that it is the bounden duty of Unesco, and of intellectuals the  world over, to tackle the problem in these terms.. Josi Marti made-this point precisely  when he said 'What is the purpose of scientific progress if not to establish peace among  men? ' .
(16-29) Inspired by the heroic example of the patriots of Grenada and the group of Cubans  employed as technicians and construction workers in this country that is so dear to us, I  wish to 1aunch.from this rostrum an appeal to all men of culture, science and education to  unite firmly in support of the idea that the resources which are being used to promote  destruction should be devoted to solving the serious economic, social and cultural prob-  lems besetting the world. If we were capable of undertaking such an enterprise, the natu-  ral, technological, scientific and economic resources available today would enable mankind  to open the way towards universal peace and security, which would be a genuine achievement  and a lasting legacy for generations to come.
(16.30) In view of the deteriorating situation in the Caribbean and the crime against  humanity which has been committed against the small and deathless country of Grenada, I  ask all the honourable delegates gathered together in this hall to denounce that crime  against humanity. The challenge of duty lies clear before us; by acquitting ourselves  we shall have the merit of achieving 'the triumph of the full dignity of mankind', and  'the universal honour' which were foremost among the moral principles taught by José Marti.  I thank you.
(17.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  that the representative of Cuba exceeded the time-limit. I ask you all to limit yourselves  to the allotted time in order to enable us to complete the work of our agenda.
(17.2) I now give the floor to H.E. Mr Abdelhadi Boutaleb, Director-General of the Islamic  Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization.  I thank the head of the Cuban delegation. I would like to remind you, once again,
(18.1) Mr BOUTALEB (Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization)  (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-Generai, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin my remarks by offering my hearty  congratulations to you, Mr President, on the demonstration of its confidence in you that  the Conference gave you by electing you as its President. You are worthy of that confi-  dence and capable of shouldering its responsibilities. We have noted with satisfaction  and admiration your excellent direction of the meetings and the work of the Conference  thanks to your wisdom and competence.
(18.2) I am indeed delighted to take the floor for the first time at this distinguished  gathering. It also gives me much pleasure to address the twenty-second session of the  General Conference of Unesco on behalf of a young organization, one which came into exist-  ence leSS than two years ago, namely the Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Organization (ISESCO) .
(18.3) Actually, relations between the two Organizations began with the birth of ISESCO,  when a Unesco representative attended its Constitutive Conference at Fez in May 1982.  Since then they have gradually developed into fruitful co-operation and an expanding pro-  cess of exchange. A representative of Unesco took part in the first General Conference of  ISESCO, last June, in Casablanca. Similarly, ISESCO has been invited to a number of  Unesco-sponsored cultural and educational seminars and gatherings, held at the Organiza-  tion's headquarters and elsewhere. Moreover, Unesco was granted observer status under one  of the resolutions adopted by the first General Conference of ISESCO, while ISESCO in turn  has been granted observer status by Unesco. We are also confident that a co-operation  agreement will soon be concluded between the two Organizations. On 15 September 1983 the  Executive Board of Unesco examined document 117 EX/33 and subsequently adopted a decision  authorizing the Director-General of Unesco to enter into negotiations with his counterpart,  the Director-General of ISESCO, with a view to preparing a draft agreement establishing  effective working relations between the two Organizations. The draft agreement has been  approved by ISESCO's General Conference and has been submitted to your Organization for  consideration. It is only natural that such a degree of understanding and co-operation
449    should have been achieved in view of the substantial degree of similarity in the principles  and objectives set forth in the two Organizations' charters, particularly with regard to  human freedom and dignity and to the means of upholding these values, whether in the fields  of education, science, culture and communication or in civilization as a whole.
(18.4) It should be remembered that one of the basic tasks of the two Organizations is to  foster international understanding through education, science and culture. According to  its Constitution, Unesco's function is to advance, through the educational and scientific  and cultural relations of the peoples of the world, the objectives of international peace  and of the common welfare of mankind. Similarly, ISESCO's Statutes provide, in  Article 4(e), that the Organization's main objectives include the strengthening of under-  standing among peoples and contributing to the establishment of world peace and security  by various means and particularly through education, science and culture.
(18.5) With Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow as Director-General of Unesco, relations between the  two Organizations are bound to become closer and stronger. This learned, experienced and  highly competent man is as committed to principle as he is open-minded, ready to listen  to different views and prompt to work out a compromise. He is an African Muslim who  embodies the ability of a Third World citizen to discharge the highest duties, and dis-  plays the Muslim individual's natural disposition to be as both understanding, open-  minded and tolerant and committed ta the spiritual and material well-being of mankind.
(18.-6) Ladies and gentlemen, one may wonder: what is ISESCO for? Are the existing inter-  national and regional organizations not enough? Is it not simply unnecessary and redundant  to have an additional organization? The answer is that ISESCO is an OIC specialized agency  responsible for education, science and culture, which was set up at a time when it was  widely felt that there was a need for such an organization in order for the Islamic world  to muster its intellectual potential with a view to using that potential effectively in  international dialogue. ISESCO's mission, therefore, is twofold: to play a unifying role  and to pave the way for dialogue.
(18-7) The Islamic Organization seeks to promote greater solidarity and Co-operatiorand  closer communion between Islamic countries which make up a community bound by cultural,  intellectual, moral and social links and by a common aspiration to achieve its development  and prosperity in harmony with its authenticity and self-respect as well as its specific  identity. The Islamic community, nearly one billion strong, is not onlv entitled to safe-  guard its identity and to preserve its ancient roots and peculiarities. it is duty-bound  to do so, just like the other communities and groups, especially at a time when imitation,  rigid orthodoxy and excessive standardization have become dominant aspects overshadowing  all others. It is unrealistic to expect to solve world problems by allowing one category  of humans or one group to dominate the others, Nor is it right to try to cast different  cultural communities into one civilizational mould, whatever its strength and assets.  Man's civilization is in fact made up of a score of civilizations, just as his thought is  the combination of other thoughts. Diversity of tastes and outlook can only be a factor  conducive to enrichment and enhancement. This leads us to take up the other major objec-  tive being pursued by the Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, namely,  dialogue.
(18.8) In Arabic as in other languages, dialogue stands for interaction between two parties.  The French Robert dictionary simply defines dialogue as a conversation between two persons.  This means that it involves at least two sides, and each one acknowledges 5 priori the  existence of the other, in addition to recognizing his specific identity and his right to  be different. The exchange of words and views develops into dialogue, which leads, in its  turn, to co-operation and mutual support. It is this kind of dialogue that is called for  by a number of countries, including the Islamic States. The main purpose is to devise a  new international order in which everyone receives his due and is willing to acknowledge  that others make their contribution to the promotion of universal civilization, regardless  of their opinion, their creed or their colour, Dialogue, whether in the field of culture  or science or information or the arts or even sports, paves the way and provides a solid  basis for political dialogue. Whereas in the past dialogue used to take place between two  separate States, today it is conducted on a regional or international basis because of the  growing prevalence of regional groupings and coalitions in the world. Consequently it is  not surprising that cultural organizations such as Unesco, ISESCO, ALECSO and the Regional  Bureau of Education for the Gulf States, should play a significant role in promoting  closer relationships between different cultures. In so doing they create a favourable  environment for promoting economic and political co-operation. The latter, in its turn,  is the task of such organizations as the League of Arab States, the Organization of the  Islamic Conference and the United Nations, as well as many other regional or international  institutions.
(18.9) The first prerequisite for international dialogue is recognition of the other side.  This requires, first an effort to know the other party, then to share that knowledge with  others. In this regard I should like to point out that Islam and Islamic countries are  often distorted and perverted in part of the press and in some books and publications as  well as in audio-visual news media. This occurs as a result of deliberate disregard for,  or outright ignorance of facts about Islam. To help restore the truth in this respect and  in several other respects is the responsibility of many groups and organizations, includ-  ing Unesco, whose Major Programme XII, which is now under your consideration, calls for  action against prejudice, intolerance and racial discrimination. Similarly, Unesco's  Major Programme XII1 deals with peace and international understanding, as well as human  rights and the rights of peoples.
(18,lO) ISESCO is prepared to work in co-operation with Unesco, to uphold the truth and  ensure the dissemination of objective historical facts and up-to-date cultural data about  Islam and Muslims.  organization's headquarters in Rabat, which will undoubtedly facilitate communication as  well as consultation and research.  In this regard, we are about to set up an Islamic data bank at the
(18.11) Co-operation between Unesco and ISESCO may be extended to other areas, such as  Major Programme XI 'Culture and the future', which provides for the safeguarding of the  cultural heritage, including the Islamic cultural heritage. In fact Unesco has already  taken praiseworthy steps, in the last few years, for the protection of some Islamic monu-  ments and sites, both from the ravages of time and from the effects of colonialism as  shown in the Zionist aggression against Palestine and Jerusalem.
(18.12) I also hope for joint efforts on behalf of literacy and adult education, in accord-  ance with Unesco's major programme on education for all, especially since this type of cul-  tural underdevelopment is still widespread in Islamic countries and communities. In fact  the number of illiterates, in real terms, has been increasing throughout the Third World.  But there has been a slight decline in percentage figures, in the last two decades, thanks  to efforts made at the national, regional and international levels.
(18.13) I will not mention all programes and areas where co-operation is possible. But I  should like to point out that there are very large prospects for such co-operation, and  that the Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization is fully prepared to  exchange know-how and experience, and to participate in a concerted action with regard to  exploring new theories as well as conducting field studies and experiments.
(18.14) I wish you a very successful twenty-second General Conference. Thank you.
(19.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  has given us a brief picture of the Organization's foundations and objectives.' I also  thank him for his kind congratulations to me. I now give the floor to the last speaker at  this meeting, Mr Reyes Heroles, Secretary for Public Education and head of the Mexican  delegation.  I thank the Director-General of ISESCO for his comprehensive address in which he
(20.1) Mr REYES HEROLES (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish):  I should like first of all to say that we have every confidence in the successful conduct  of this meeting under its newly-elected President. To you, Mr Director-General, and  through you, to the Secretariat and to the members of the Executive Board, I should like  to convey the Mexican Government's gratitude for the outstanding results of the work  reflected in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985, which will be the main docu-  ment for this meeting's discussions.
(20.2) Thirty-eight years, the age of Unesco, is a short time in the life of an institu-  tion; a brief span which has been packed with activity. Here, in a field which has been  sown but is difficult to harvest, such as is the field of education and culture, Unesco  has achieved undeniable results. In the world in which we live, which has been not so much  apost-warworld as a world between wars, no matter how localized these wars have been (and  here I should express my government's deep concern at recent events in the Caribbean, which,  in the words of my government, are exacerbating the situation and endangering the mainten-  ance of peaceful coexistence between the Caribbean States and those of Central America) -  in this world between wars, one of the few causes for optimism is our faith in education  and culture and in the continued activity of Unesco. To those who consider that a new type  of education is impossible without creating a society different from the present one, we  reaffirm our confidence in the importance of education in society, its weight and signifi-  cance, in its transforming effects which make it an instrument for the attainment of a new  and better society in which justice will be combined with freedom, security and social and  spiritual well-being.
(20.3) The guiding principle of Mexican educational policy has been the recognition of a  dialectical relationship between society and education: society gives direction to educa-  tion and determines its characteristics: in its turn it is guided by education, and it is  education which sows the seeds of the projects that will determine how the future develops.
(20.4) The only hope for a united world lies in.the recognition of its diversity, differ-  ences and plurality of individual characteristics; and of each country's right to choose  its own pattern of society and seek it in its own way. This is a fundamental principle,  not only for the peaceful coexistence of nations, but also for achieving the complemen-  tarity which will enable all peoples and governments in the world to help'each other. To  recognize this diversity is not to deny the need for unity; on the contrary, it is to  accept what exists as a basis on which to build what should exist, namely unity in  diversity.
(20.5) Taking a broad view of history, we see that at turning-points similar to the pres-  ent, conflicting currents of thought or ideologies have worked together silently to pro-  duce comprehensive historical syntheses which incorporate the best from each system, not  simply by aggregating, or radically or completely eliminating individual components, but  by ,conserving them with a view to innovation. Empires which have fallen and eras which  have come to an end have at least left behind some trace in the mould used to fashion a  new and different world. As in the past, this can happen again today.
(20.6) Culture is the discovery and recognition of man by man. This means restructuring  the world, pursuing essentially human aims, which begin with man's self-preservation and  development, including the development of the two closely linked faculties of knowledge  and action. One of the objectives of bringing men together is to free them from the harsh  necessities of life, so that human beings may maintain and increase their ability to  affirm their individuality and transform the society in which they live.
(20.7) New ideas and experiences enable us to make a proper assessment of the difficult  times through which we are now living, and in which we must bear fully in mind the great  risks and many dangers to which we are exposed. Let us remember the negative response  generated in the not so distant past by a situation similar to the present: leaders with-  out wisdom or a calm and balanced outlook, who turned irrational intuition into a system  of government, and masses succumbing to a feeling of hopelessness who were an easy prey to  propaganda for the worship of the State. Let us reject the ideologues who advocate power  for power's sake, who are to be found even in our times in a different guise.
(20.8) Have we succeeded in preventing any single man from being powerful enough to  oppress another, or so weak as to yield to oppression? Have we dispelled both kinds of  fear - the fear of those who have, and are afraid of losing what they have, and of the  have-nots, who are afraid of succumbing because they are destitute? Have we ensured that  man's struggle is not against man, but against hunger? Of course we have npt.
(20.9) Regrettably, we are very far from having effectively achieved the basic social  human right for which man has been struggling since the last century, namely the right to  work. Nor have we achieved universal recognition of the right of all to education, in  accordance with Article 26 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
(20.10) The resources of mankind continue to be put to the wrong uses, and neither the  electronic revolution in education nor technological progress is of much avail to the  developing countries, which have frequently obtained little at very high cost.  Mr President, Mr Director-General, heads of delegations, ladies and gentlemen,
(20.11) It is a known fact that whole cultural groups have lost their identity, sacrificed  to development which is indifferent to their interests, wasteful of resources and in some  cases counter-productive. Elsewhere, as in my country, areas of intense economic develop-  ment and conspicuous consumption exist side by side with entire communities excluded from  the economy or enclosed -in primitive economies, victims of the evils and maladies of both  underdevelopment and development run wild.
(20.12) The effects naively ascribed to development do not correspond to reality. Those  who believed that development as such would put an end to illiteracy and educational back-  wardness have seen their mistake, as have those who thought that education at all levels  would in itself eradicate economic and social underdevelopment. Paradoxically, in coun-  tries with a relatively flourishing economy illiteracy is increasing because of internal  migrations, and economic needs frequently lead to the type of development that is alienat-  ing and destructive. Hence the hopes we place in the Major Project on Education in Latin  America and the Caribbean.
(20.13) Beyond all this, and setting aside simplistic explanations, we must seek the under-  lying causes of this situation. The full expression of the human spirit has been hampered  by our inability to provide it with opportunikies of developing to the full. Unesco must  not shirk its responsibility in this difficult period for mankind. Its Constitution states  that the peace sought by the peoples of the world must be founded, if it is not to fail,  upon the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind; since wars begin in the minds of  men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed.
(20.14) We need great strength for the common undertaking which unites us, that of ensur-  ing the spiritual growth of the world as a place fit for man living in freedom and dignity.  We cap rely on the power of ideas as tools to concentrate human knowledge and action: the  power of thought can centre the world on man and radiate out from him, broadening his hori-  zons so that the horizon of each individual, wherever he lives, becomes the horizon of the  world as a whole.
(20.15) In 1921 Mexico began an educational undertaking which has continued for decades.  Literacy education was introduced, basic education extended and an impetus given to scien-  tific, technological and cultural research. The results have been positive, but they are  not commensurate with the country's needs. In my country there are six million illiterates  aged fifteen and over, fifteen million adults who have not completed primary education and  seven million who have not completed secondary education. Reliable statistics on functional  illiteracy are not available.
(20.16) For the current school year more than twenty-four and a half million Mexicans are  enrolled at all levels of education. This sustained expansion has led to severe problems,  so that the President of the Republic, Miguel de la Madrid Hurtado, envisages the need to  introduce into the education system something more than merely cosmetic or piecemeal  reforms. He has called for a genuine revolution that will root out old habits, overcome  vested interests, do away with routine, discard outmoded methods and change customs: bring  together or consolidate centres of higher learning in the States of the Republic, and make  systematic efforts to improve them both quantitatively and qualitatively. He aims at genu-  ine changes in order to obtain high-quality education and the linking of training, work and  output since, given Mexico's economic situation, we are obliged to make the most of our  slender resources.
(20.17) We are now engaged, although not exclusively, in promoting and securing greater  recognition for technical and technological culture, since know-how is wisdom. As the  great poet Novalis said: 'We know only in as far as we act. In reality, the search for  knowledge and action always proceeds from within'. The advancement of technical and tech-  nological education is one of the major concerns of the Government of Mexico.
(20.18) While in many ways education is an egalitarian instrument, it does not automati-  cally eliminate economic, social or cultural inequalities and there is need for specific  action aimed at redressing such inequalities through education. .
(20.19, Much of the educational revolution consists in harmonizing the law with existing  practice, so that the law can be applied to bring about change. It is with this in view  that the process of decentralization of education has been undertaken, aimed at improving  the quality of education by streamlining its organization.
(20.20) Mobilizing society is the only way to launch the educational revolution which will  make it possible to extend literacy and culture, modernize and improve education, and  banish for ever obsolete methods which do not teach the student to think for himself.
(20.21) It is hoped that through decentralization there will be greater participation by  parents, pupils and local authorities, and closer two-way contact between the village and  the nation via the region, Decentralization will respect the local characteristics of the  different Mexican States having individual features which they wish to preserve and even  to consolidate.
(20.22) We are a multicultural nation. We have fifty-six ethnic groups, which between them  speak more than one hundred languages and a host of different dialects. We thus provide  bilingual education, and have begun to expand it. We intend to strengthen our cultural  heritage, safeguarding and enriching its multi-ethnic origins.
(20.23) I represent a country with a long history, which fearlessly adopts universal ideas  and adapts them to its own situation; which fearlessly assimilates what is good from out-  side sources and adds to it with new ideas and new methods of action. I represent a coun-  try which, by virtue of its past and its present, because it took part in the first social  revolution in the twentieth century, can contribute to achieving the historical synthesis  required in centuries to come.
(20.24) Unesco's continuing action through discussion and decisions must be strengthened  as a means of encompassing the variety which makes up the world in a single community,  serving the interests of all and respecting differences and divergencies. No conflict is  insoluble when there is the will to settle it and the courage and patience to make the  attempt.
(20.25) With sailing ships, it is not unusual for a small force to slow down or weaken a  greater one. As Saavedra Fajardo wrote: 'The greater force does not always conquer. The  motion of a ship can be retarded by a tiny remora'. Let Unesco's efforts be the remora  that restrains the forces of despair, fear and irrationality.
(21.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  his congratulations to me.
(21.2) I declare this morning's meeting adjourned.  I thank the head of the Mexican delegation for his comprehensive address and for  The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h.20  Se levanta la sesi¿n a las 13 h.20