Ninth plenary meeting
29 October 1983 at 10.10 a.m.  President: Mr TELL (Jordan)  Neuvième séance plénière
29 octobre 1983 à 10 h.10  Président : M. TELL (Jordanie)  Novena sesión plenaria
5 67    GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)/DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)/  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacion)/  OBCYXfiEHkIE BOiIPOCOB OBIJEFI IIOJIWTMICM (npononxeaae) /
(1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I declare open the ninth meeting for the General Policy Debate.
(1.2) I would like to remind the distinguished delegates that the time-limit for each  speaker, in accordance with your decision, should not exceed twenty minutes. Since there  are nine speakers at this morning's meeting, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to observe  this time-limit.
(1.3) I now give the floor to H.E. Ms. Lena Hjelm-Wallén, Minister of Education and  Cultural Affairs and head of the Swedish delegation.
2.1 Ms HJELM-WALLEN (Sweden) :  the successful outcome of this Conference under your wise presidency.
2.2 Unesco is a vital institution in the United Nations family, since its  mandate concerns the very nucleus of resources needed for development: knowledge.  My Government is convinced that co-operation within Unesco - the most universal of  all the organizations of the United Nations family - is also in the interest of a  nation that undoubtedly belongs to the privileged part of humankind today. We  hold the view that a clear distinction should be made between the definition of  problems on one hanâ, and the flow of resources for the solution of these problems  on the other. The definition of problems is likely to be of great interest to  most nations, whereas the flow of resources should be led in one main stream: from  the privileged part of the world - the major contributors to Unesco - to the less  privileged part. The Organization will also serve the interests of the richer  part of the world by trying to find solutions to problems common to all the member  Countries, such as those associated with cultural and mass media policies. But  the rich countries should be preparea to ensure that the flow of resources goes  to concrete assistance in the developing world.  Mr President, may I join previous speakers in extending my best wishes fcr
2.3 Mr President, permit me now, against this background of some of the primary  tasks of Unesco, to voice a note of concern which is reflected in some of the  proposals of the Nordic countries to this Conference. On a number of occasions,  we have underlined the necessity of devoting a larger proportion of the resources  of this Organization to the most pressing needs in the spheres of Unesco's compe-  tence. We have urged the Secretariat to select carefully certain proposals that  should be given priority over others. We have done so because we are-convinced  that the dispersion of effort in any organization is harmful to the vigour it could,  and should, develop in solving its primary tasks. The Draft Programme and Budget  no doubt present problems in this respect. The Medium-Term Plan in itself perhaps  offers too wide a variety of projects, but the Plan does not exclude a greater  degree of concentration in the biennial programmes. I wish to repeat once again  what the head of the Swedish delegation said last year: all programmes and sub-  programmes do not have to get the same amount of resources; nor do they all have  to go on during the whole six-year period covered by the Plan.
2.4 Mr President, in the view of my Government, Unesco - by which I mean the  General Conference, the Executive Board and the Secretariat - must work with firm  determination to attain a much higher degree of concentration in the forthcoming  programmes and budgets. Some projects must be sacrificed in favour of concerted  efforts for the priorities. Although some progress has been made in comparison  with previous programmes, I must regretfully conclude from the examination by
568    competent authorities in my country that the reasons presented for an increase in  resources on the scale proposed by the Director-General are not sufficient: Members  of my delegation will elaborate on the criticism we have against individual parts  of the draft programme.
2.5 The Nordic countries have presented a proposal for a budget growth which -  in our view - better corresponds to the needs demonstrated by the programme docu-  ment. This proposal does not contain provisions for new posts, but it does provide  for a growth of activities. We have submitted this proposal in a spirit of com-  promise: on the basis of this proposal Unesco will still enjoy a much higher rate  of growth than other United Nations organizations. We are willing to accord a  measure of increased resources to the Organization, on the understanding that the  need for concentration will be observed vigorously during the preparation of coming  programmes and budgets, and - as far as possible - in the implementation of the  present draft programe. We also trust that all ef,forts will be made to ensure  that the work of the Organization is made more efficient, rational and thus more  rewarding for the Member States.
2.6 Mr President, let me now refer to some of the tasks that, in the view of my  country, lie in front of us and that should be given a clear priority in terms of  the Organization's resources.
2.7 Unesco's work for literacy, closely linked to adult education, rural edu-  cation and vocational education, deserves the highest rank in any order of priority.  This was clearly borne out in the results of the consultation on the Medium-Term  Plan. The problem of illiteracy remains a disgrace to the world and a challenge  to every nation - an urgent task for the international community.
2.8 The primary task of our Organization in this field should not be to inves-  tigate the causes and theories behind the extensive lack of elementary education  among the peoples of the world: the problem is obvious to everyone, and we need  not waste mpney in order to establish that fact. Our common task is to find  strategies and to apply our large resources to the solution of this problem in  individual countries. Adult education forms an integral part of this woïk, and  Unesco has an obligation to inspire its Member States to appreciate the central  role of -adult education in this context.
2.9 Mr President, today, literacy is primarily an issue that concerns women:  we all know the basic facts about the distribution of illiteracy, and we have to  draw the conclusion that the main thrust of our effort must concern women. It is  right: that substantial economic and human resources of this Organization be devoted  to this task, and the Nordic countries have submitted proposals to this end.
2.10 Mr President, education for large under-privileged groups of women in the  world is strongly linked to education for human rights, peace and international  understanding. Unesco has a record to be proud of in this context. The Organ-  ization has stood up against violations of human rights and has been involved in  confrontation with a Member State, which has now left the Organization, over this  issue. In my view Unesco should extend and broaden its efforts in the field of  education for human rights. Unesco adopted a plan, only three years ago, to give  this work more systematic and concrete form. The Organization should devote  considerably greater efforts to the implementation of the plan and to the vigorous  pursuance of the obligation to persuade governments to intensify their work in  this field.
2.11 Many of my fellow Ministers of Education at this Conference will have met  with demands and questions in our schools. We are asked: 'Why do governments  spend such huge sums on armaments and what you call 'military security' and such  insignificant sums on education for peace and international understanding? Such  questions are put to us sometimes even aggressively or bitterly. This bitterness-  sometimes even lack of belief in the future - partly stems from the threats to the  young of today: the nuclear nightmare, unemployment, gloomy economic prospects.  Education in general has certainly an essential role to play in providing the young  with knowledge and ability in the fight for peace and human dignity and in prepar-  ing for a future without unemployment. Education for the promotion of peace should  be given closer attention. We do not mean orqanizing great manifestations or  congresses on peace but rather continuous and persistent everyday experimental  work .
2.12 Mr President, within Unesco, the North-South dialogue and the role of the  United Nations in reconciling conflicting interests has a particular bearing in  the field of culture. Unesco has a great part to play in assisting developing  countries in building up what could be called a 'cultural infrastructure' indepen-  dent of the dominant forces of other cultures and the transnational cultural  industries. It is, for example, urgent for many countries to organize book pro-  duction and distribution, to obtain qualified staff for museums and information
569    and research on the cultural heritage. This is particularly urgent in the process  of the restitution of cultural objects to their countries of origin. The question  of training competent local manpower is also crucial when it comes to campaigns  for the preservation of monuments under Unesco's or other auspices. In many of  these areas, the resemblance between the problems of developing nations and those  of the smaller industrialized countries is striking, and it is clear that we could  learn much from each other. Although I would not say that a great deal of money  should go to the industrialized world for these purposes, I do believe that Unesco  has an important part to play as an agency for the exchange of know-how and experi-  ence. Sweden has also within its boundaries expressed its respect for other  cultures through its immigrant and minority policy which is based on the following  guiding principles: equality, culture, freedom of choice and co-operation.
2.13 I should like to mention briefly some other problems related to culture.  It is urgent to continue follow-up work on the recommendation concerning the Status  of the Artist. Creative artists must be given active support in all countries  where the cultural industries threaten to exterminate local and personal artistic  expression. One way of doing this is to encourage professional organizations:  another is to concentrate resources on concrete operational projects in the cul-  tural field rather than to undertake more studies. The integration of the cultural  dimension into all development work in pursuance of the recommendation adopted by  the Mexico World Conference on Cultural Policies is the general framework within  which this must be undertaken.
2.14 Mr President, in his preface to the Report of the International Commission  for the Study of Communication Problems, Sean MacBride paraphrased H.G. Wells in  saying that human history becomes more and more a race between communication and  catastrophe. Unesco must be among those who give more muscle to the communication  side in this race. Unesco's guides in this race may be summarized in three words:  participation, democratization and understanding. The right of different groups  to let their voice be heard and understood and the right of others to be informed  and to understand should be respected. We need more exchanges among journalists,  but also better knowledge of the obstacles to the exchange of information. The  MacBride Commission denounced censorship and arbitrary control over information,  and the second Medium-Term Plan also mentions censorship and self-censorship as  important obstacles. We have proposed concrete measures to be included in the  programme to act against the various forms of censorship and self-censorship.  This work should be undertaken in close co-operation with the competent profes-  sional organizations.
2.15 Unesco's work for the democratization of communication should take as con-  crete and action-oriented a form as possible. The work now under way within the  co-ordinating framework of the International Programme for the Development of  Communication has our wholehearted support. My Government is now ready to start  discussions about concrete proposals on which Unesco and Sweden could co-operate  to further the development of the mass media in developing countries. The train-  ing of journalists and other media personnel, radiodevelopment, projectsto support  the media through non-governmental organizations would be interesting fields of  co-operation to explore.
2.16 Mr President, in conclusion allow me to reiterate my Government's strong  faith in co-operation within the family of international organizations to which  Unesco belongs and in Unesco itself with its rich network of affiliated non-  governmental organizations. Ir, a world of high political tension, which is a  danger to us all, it is vital to preserve and strengthen the network of contacts  and concrete co-operation that we have at our disposal. Thank you, Mr President.
(3.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  congratulations to me.
(3.2) I now give the floor to H.E. Mrs Helgadottir, Minister of Education and Culture  and head of the Icelandic delegation.  I thank the head of the Swedish delegation for her remarks as well as for her
4.1 Mrs HELGADOTTIR (Iceland) :  first of all, Mr President, to congratulate you on your election to the high office  of President of the General Conference. In my statement I shall discuss some  important points in the Draft Programme for 1984-1985, briefly refer to the imple-  mentation of the Programme and to the budgetary issues facing our organization and  finally mention Iceland's participation in Unesco's work.
4.2 Let me first make a few comments on the position of the Icelandic Govern-  ment on some of the major programmes. Major Programme II, 'Education for all',  focuses on a problem whose importance and central place in Unesco's work has  already been stressed on many occasions by the Icelandic delegation, that is to  say, the problem of illiteracy. Illiteracy is a world problem with such far-  ranging and decisive implications for individuals and nations that it must remain  a central concern of Unesco. The struggle against illiteracy is a long and  arduous process. It is true that Member States.are basically responsible here,  but, as in the past, Unesco can encourage and support their work in many ways.  The fields of possible assistance are numerous: Unesco can help Member States to  promote literacy and instruction, it can facilitate the provision of texts and  materials, and, last but not least, it can give assistance in the training of  qualified literacy personnel. Understanding between peoples will be strengthened,  and peace in the world better secured in the long run if the general education of  the individual is improved. Literacy is the basis of educational progress. The  value of this particular programme is also reflected in the fact that in many  countries the status of women will hardly be improved until they have been given  the opportunities which flow from knowing how to read and write.
4.3 With regard to Major Programme III, 'Communication in the service of man',  I shall make a few remarks. Iceland supports wholeheartedly the amendment to the  draft programme and budget submitted by Norway, and Co-sponsored by Denmark,  Sweden, Finland and Iceland, as well as Portugal, in document 22 C/DR.124. In  this connection, I should like to remind the General Conference of the work of  the Council of Europe on mass media problems and especially of the Declaration on  the Freedom of Expression and Information which was adqted by the Coïíimittee of  Ministers of this twenty-one-member organization on 29April 1982. Inthisdeclara-  tion it is stated inter alia that freedom of expression and information is neces-  sary for the social, economic, cultural and political development of every human  being. It is further stated that the Member States of the Council of Europe are  aware that a free flow and wide circulation of information of all kinds across  frontiers is an important factor for international understanding, for bringing  peoples together and for the mutual enrichment of cultures. Among the objectives  that the Member States of the Council of Europe have agreed to seek to achieve is  the promotion of international co-operation and assistance through public and  private channels with a view to fostering the free flow of information and improv-  ing communication, infrastructures and expertise.
4.4 Unesco's long-term objectives in the field of communication should be to  further the development of education, culture and science by making possible the  free flow of and access to information. In the short and medium terms, however,  it appears logical for Unesco to focus its efforts chiefly on the development of  communication, not through international co-operation forthe definitionof national  communication policies but rather through direct action in the training of quali-  fied communication personnel for the developing countries. This would be one way  for Unesco to help them to develop their own educational, cultural and scientific  infrastructures.  Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I should like,
4.5 One point has particularly retained my attention in Major Programme IV,  'The formulation and application of education policies'. It is the use of computer  science as a subject of general and technical education and as a means of study and  research at various levels of the educational system. Computers are a magnificent  invention, an extension of the human mind which people can use for different pur-  poses of learning and problem-solving. Great progress is being achieved in this  area. Unesco may not have been in the forefront of progress so far, but it a good  sign that such problems are now being taken up in the Organization's programme and  will be dealt with more systematically during subsequent biennia of the second  Medium-Term Plan. The aim of this action should be to advise and assist Member  States in initiating programmes of computer literacy in teacher training courses  and in primary and secondary schools, as well as adult education establishments.
4.6 With regard to Major Programme V I  'Education, training and society', I wish,  Mr President, to stress the importance of Programme V.3, 'Education and the world  of work'. My government attaches special importance to improving the connections  between the education system and the system of work and production. Unesco can  certainly assist Member States in this respect, and I welcome in particular the  proposed action concerning the collection and dissemination of information relating  to experiments intended to facilitate the integration of young people into working  life.
4.7 Major Programme VIII, 'Principles, methods and strategies of action for  development', contains a specific subprogramme on the mobilization of human re-  sources. Under this subprograme, the organization will take the first modest but  significant steps towards the objective of granting 15,000 Unesco fellowships per  annum by the end of the period covered by the second Medium-Term Plan. This means  that in addition to the training activities envisaged under other major programmes,  a general programme of fellowships amounting to one million dollars is foreseen  under this subprogramme. The beneficiaries of this effort will be 1,000 young  people from the least developed countries and another 1,000 young people from other  developing countries. This part of the programme should be welcomed as an example  of concrete action where the Organization has a leading international role to play.
4.8 The activities proposed under Major Programme X, 'The human environment and  terrestrial and marine resources', are designed in particular to implement and  expand the four major international scientïfic pfogrames of the Organization: the  International Geological Correlation Programme (IGCP), the International Hydro-  logical Programme (IHP), the Man and the Biosphere Programme (MAB) and the pro-  grames of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (TOC). All these  programes should be commended and sustained. They have achieved remarkableresults  and have enhanced Unesco's prestige in the field of international scientific co-  operation. We Icelanders wish to extend our support to all of them, and especially  to IGCP and IOC. The IGCP research projects on the earth's crust deserve special  mention here, as do the IOC programmes of Global Investigation of Pollution in the  Marine Environment (GIPME) and Integrated Global Ocean Services System (IGOCC) .
4.9 Let me now, Mr President, turn my attention to Major Programme XI, 'Culture  and the future'. As a worldwide intergovernmental organization with a universal  vocation, Unesco has a unique role to play in this regard, particularly in helping  Member States to develop and enhance the cultural identity of their people and in  advancing the mutual appreciation of different cultures. We wish to express our  appreciation of Unesco's translation programme, a modern but significant action  aimed at promoting the translation and publication of representative works of world  literature, particularly the translation of works writtenkin ,languages not widely  spoken.
4.10 It will come as no surprise to you, Mr President., that I wish to say a few  words about Major Programme XIV, 'The status óf women'. The presentation technique  of bringing together, in the form of a single cross-secticmal,major programme,  activities specifically designed to improve the status of women in the context of  other major programmes is to be commended, because it rendcrs the totality of  actions planned for this purpose clearer, more visib2e and more coherent. I note  with satisfaction that there is a substantial increase in the budgetary provisions  for planned activities. Among the organizations of the.,Uriited hintions system,  Unesco seems to be advancing to the forefront of policY-mak,ing and action in this  connection. These are good signs, and this course'of action must Le resolutely  pursued.
4.11 After these remarks about the proposed Programme for 1984-1985, I shall now  make a few comments on implementation.
4.12 Unesco should pay special attention to C U - ~ ~ C L ~ E ~ ~ ~  with",gcholars and experts  in every country of the world, and in particular through their iriTernationa1 non-  governmental organizations. i said: special attention, because I 'consider this a  crucial point and a matter of principle. These scholars, experts and enlightened  people of goodwill all over the world provide Unesco with j.ts'~grassr\ots, indeed  with its life. We must not alienate this community from our effort. ',Co-operation  with the international non-governmental organizations must therefore b$ particul-  arly fostered, and more of Unesco's actions should, through contracts, be entrusted  to them. The National Commissions of Member States also play an important p?' in  this connection as .information and liaison agencies.
4.13 The concentration of our Organization's programme is important. 'I~,LS 1s a  matter of concern because a programme too widely stretched is bound to lead to a  myriad of actions doomed to have very little impact. Such a situation will  adversely affect not only the Organization's work, but its public image as well  I am raising this issue because this is and remains a serious problem. Unesco  should aim at not too many, but essential, clear-cut tasks, which are not dealt  with by other United Nations institutions, so that programmes may be more effec-  tively translated into action.
4.14 Mr President, I would like to express the hope that the compromise solutibA.  put forward by the Nordic countries will meet with wide support when the budget  comes up for debate. Even though we are at the moment going through a difficult  economic period, we are still prepared to make an effort in acknowledgement of  Unesco's important role by accepting a growth rate of 2.5 per cent, and this at a  time when our national administration and other international organizations are  making do with less.
4.15 Finally, Mr President, let me say a few words about Iceland's participation  in the work of Unesco. The Icelandic Government now wishes to contribute more to  the joint effort, and to assume more responsibility. It has therefore decided, for  the first time in Iceland's nineteen years of membership of the Organization, and  after close consultation with the governments of the other Nordic countries: Denmark,  Finland, Norway and Sweden, to propose a candidate to the Executive Board. We are  looking forward with optimism to the specific international responsibilities which  this will entail, and which are new to us - and we shall try to be worthy of our  support.
4.16 Iceland, my country, is not a big one and we Icelanders are a small nation;  our national identity is almost entirely based on our cultural heritage, especially  our literary heritage and our language, which is only spoken by 200,000 people.  The Republic of Iceland has been a member of Unesco since1964, andourcontribution  has - generally speaking - been commensurate with our size. But we are certainly  interested in Unesco as an international channel for educational, scientific and  cultural work to increase better understanding between free individuals and free  nations.
4.17 Let me, Mr President, conclude my statement on this note, and thank you for  giving me the floor.
(5.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic)  gratulating me.
(5.2) I now give the floor to H.E. Mrs Prats de Perez, Minister of Education, Fine Arts  and Culture and head of the delegation of the Dominican Republic.  I thank the head of the Icelandic delegation for her remarks as well as for con-
(6.1) Mrs PRATS DE PEREZ (Dominican Republic) .(Translation from the Spanish):  gentlemen; speaking as the representative of a small country which is an oasis of peace in  thetroubledregion of the Caribbean, I am honoured and gratified to speak at the twenty-  second session of the General Conference of Unesco, particularly under the dignified  presidency of two such outstanding representatives of Third World cultures and peoples as  our President and our Director-General. It is a circumstance which I welcome, and I con-  gratulate Mr Tell for having been so appropriately chosen to lead our discussions.
(6.2) To quote a memorable poem by the great Chilean poet Pablo Neruda, thirty-eight  years is a ripe age 'for a mature girl or a beautiful mother'. Unesco came into existence  thirty-eight years ago and, like abeautifulmother and a mature girl, it has much to be  proud of. It has implemented important projects, accumulated a wealth of experience and  above all contributed to the major dialogue between peoples designed to further the progess  of mankind.
(6.3) At the twenty-second session of the General Conference we respectfully remember  our Organization's founders, as did the FrenchPresident,MrFrançoisMitterand, andUnesCo's  Director-General at the formal inaugural session. Nations and institutions which cherish  the past and honour the heroic deeds of their illustrious dead are those which follow in  the steps of history. Yet while we look back to our fruitful beginnings, we must also  steel our wills to shoulder our present-day responsibilities.
(6.4) If it is our wish that the peoples represented here should one day enjoy the same  common futur.e referred to by Mr M'Bow in his inaugural speech, then we should start build-  ing this future.now, today, without further delay, using our political determination, dis-  cussions and action to translate the concepts of understanding, co-operation, development  and peace into genuine practice. The future will always be the result of the action we  take now, backed up by our bold determination and faith. The delegates assembled here are  committed to a daunting yet magnificent task; our words, our intentions, our pledges and  our discussions will to a large extent determine whether Unesco is to be regarded from now  on as an organization which has ceased to function, a forum for airing purely rhetorical  disagreementS.and displaying one's oratory, or as a responsible, vigorous and dynamic  institution where opposing attitudes can be reconciled through discussion leading to a  general position acceptable to the majority.  is the best form of representation in a democracy.
(6.5) The challenge of the coming six weeks will be to find similarity in dissimilarity,  unity in diversity, and from among different ideologies the common approaches which we must  adopt in view of the great similarities of our countries' needs. The question is whether  we can succeed; whether we shall merit the trust of our citizens, our students, our  researchers and teachers, who all speak of Unesco with respect, expectation, and hope.  Unesco is no abstract, metaphysical, other-worldly entity operating from above and outside  its member countries, like a sort of 'deus ex machina'. It is we - and I repeat we - who  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished heads of delegations, ladies and  Let us not forget that the majority principle
576    are Unesco. We are its flesh and blood, and perhaps our common membership of the organiza-  tion and the fact that we are assembled here today, that we can work and act together  despite our cultural, political and economic differences, are the most hopeful sign that  the world's major problems and conflicts can be solved through exchanges of views in a  spirit of good will, understanding and, in the words of the Mexican, Benito Juárez, 'peace  which is respect for the rights of others'.
(6.6) My country, the Dominican Republic, believes in Unesco. My Government, which is  entirely democratic and representative, believes that the men and women of the world are  capable of understanding and seeking to solve their problems. We see in Unesco a perfect  example of a great assembly of nations and individuals who have come together in an honest  search for valid solutions to their pressing problems.
(6.7) Because we place our faith in Unesco, we welcome the fourteen major programmes,  which are a concise expression of a philosophy and a strategy of action designed to breathe  new life into education, strengthen national cultures and set science and technology on the  right lines so as to contribute to genuine development. From among the major programmes,  we can state that for the moment my government will give priority to activities which fall  under Major Programme II, 'Education for all'. The title may at first sight strike one as  a Utopian objective in view of the constraints, shortages and social injustices which still  afflict so many countries of the world. But it may well be that all great ideas began as  a dream in the minds of their inventors. We have thus adopted the noble aim of education  for all, and under this heading come all the projects presently under way in the Dominican  Republic.
(6.8) Our Government, which came to power a little more than a year ago, following the  wishes of the people freely expressed in model elections, has, enthusiastically welcomed  the Clnesco Major Project on Education in Latin America and the Caribbean, which reflects  its Lnterest'in Major Programme II, 'Education for all'. The three main objectives of the  project are designed as a response to the alarming situation of education in Latin America.  These are: the provision of education for all children of school age by 1999; the eradica-  tion of illiteracy before the end of the century; and an improvement in the standards and  efficiency of education systems.
(6.9) In a seminar attended by representatives of all sectors of the community the  Dominican Republic recently adopted its own version of the Major Project. The aims,  policies and strategies oftheMinistryofÉducationuptotheyear 2000 havebeen incorporated  into a National Plan for Action.
(6.10) In addition to planning future activities in the context of the Major Project, we  have also taken practical steps to initiate major lines of action which clearly reflect the  spirit and the letter of the Project. An example is the Special Citizens' Education  Programme, which is being implemented in fourteen of the country's twenty-eight provinces,  with 15,000 voluntary, unpaid workers teaching 79,000 people to read and write. This  Programme, recently approved by a group of Unesco experts, is designed to teach 550,000  adults to read and write in four years and to integrate them into socially useful work.  The Programme has received the best possible guarantee in the shape of a loan of twenty-  five million dollars from the Inter-American Development Bank to improve its structure and  to continue with an ambitious post-literacy stage in which eleven million books, a weekly  magazine and a radio programme will consolidate the training of the newly literate popula-  tion. The loan will also be used to build fifteen technical schools to provide newly  literate adults with vocational training.
(6.11) We all know, as Mr M'BOW said on Wednesday, that action tocombatilliteracydepends  above all on the political determination of our governments and participation by the people.  I am proud to say that both these conditions are met by the Dominican Republic. But we  are aiming still higher: we intend to broaden our experiment and seek Unesco co-operation  and stimulus to continue our endeavour which, in keeping with the 1979 Mexico City declara-  tion, aims to 'give highest priority toprovidingfortheleastprivilegedpopulationgroups'.  Education for all, which genuinely seeks to enshrine the principle of equality, must  involve the principle of the just redistribution of wealth, starting with the poorest and  humblest, with that vast stratum of the population so typical of our underdeveloped classes,  who play no part in economic and cultural life whatsoever. Because they are the majority,  and because they are deprived of their basic rights to education, work, happiness and life  itself, it is incumbent on us to try to bridge the ever-widening gap between the world's  'outcasts' and the privileged few.
(6.12) This fully justifies the importance attributed by Unesco to literacy training in  recent years. It explains the Dominican Government's firm and enthusiastic support for  its Special Citizens' Education Programme, and highlights the importance attached by the  major programmes to rural education. It underlines the need to strengthen public educa-  tion in our countries, without forgetting the complementary role played by private educa-  tional establishments. It emphasizes the urgent need to introduce planning policies which  will progressively make our education systems more national and democratic in response to  the growing demands of our peoples.
(6.13) Priority for the least privileged, who constitute the majority - and this is by no  means an idle formula, but a tragic reality in our underdeveloped countries - must be  organized on an international scale if we genuinely seek to work for equality, justice,  development and peace. Shortcomings in the educational, scientific and technological  fields fall hardest on the poorest sectors of our populations and, a priori, on the poorest  countries. We must, and can, reduce the terrible gap between the developed and the least  developed countries, if we wish our young citizens to continue to believe in the effective-  ness of international bodies.
(6.14) Equality of opportunity cannot be taken for granted; here I agree with the Spanish  delegate who spoke yesterday. We have to help equality to emerge, and though this may seem  paradoxical, assistance should not be offered on an equal basis to all countries. Priority  should be given to co-operation with the poorest countries in order to stimulate their
577    growth and development, thus narrowing the gap between them and other nations. As a  teacher I venture to illustrate what I mean with a simple metaphor: a race between a hare  and a tortoise can never be fair if both run under the same rules, at the same time and  from the same starting-point. By analogy, when dealing with countries in relative stages  of development, our guiding principle should be to promote balance and equality among  Member States by means of what one might call 'biased' or 'weighted' aid.
(6.15) His Holiness Pope Paul VI once said that 'development is the new name for peace'.  I repeat that if development is to come about, the least developed countries must be given  a head start. So long as so many differences persist between the poor, the very poor and  the least developed countries, and the rich, very rich and industrialized countries, there  can be no lasting peace in the world. It would be like asking a starving man to remain  cheerfully unmoved, and exercise superhuman resignation, at the spectacle of a glutton  gorging himself at a feast for him alone.
(6.16) Mr Chairman, Mr Dir-ector-General, my country, the Dominican Republic, is one of  those small but worthy Third World countries which still believe in democracy and dialogue,  and Stil:. believe that this feast can be voluntarily shared among all. We believe in  Unesco's role as .the major catalyst in our joint determination as Unesco member coiintries  rich and poor, developed and developing alike. What we cannot and must not forget is that  together we make up Unesco.  twenty-second session of the General Conference confident that the senior members of the  great Unesco family, to which the President referred on taking office on Tuesday are fully  aware that priority must be given to junior members in dealing with their educational needs,  in strengthening and preserving their cultures and in developing research, science and  technology to solve the urgent and alarming problems facing our societies. When interna-  tional bodies adopt these wise general priorities, always bearing in mind the differences  between their members and seeking to reduce them by giving more to those who have less,  then peace on earth will become more widespread, for development will no longer be the  monopoly of the few.
(6.17) Mr President, Mr Director-General, fellow delegates, on behalf of my government  and my country, I welcome the twenty-second session of the General Conference and the  fourteen major programmes, which are an attempt to sum up the anguish and the hopes of  mankind in its arduous search for a better life. May God be with us and guide us in our  discussions and decisions. Ours is a heavy responsibility, for misunderstanding and dis-  agreement lie in wait ready to emerge at any moment. Only a sincere and social commitment  deliberately assumed by each of us will bring us successfully to the end of this Conference.  I hope that when we delegates return to our countries, we shall be able to announce that  in this assembly we were tried and not found wanting in international understanding and  comprehension, since our countries agreed on many major educational, cultural and scien-  tific projects - all, naturally, on behalf of man, the central point and driving-force of  development. May I say that of course-'man' includes 'woman', who, whatever the views to  the contrary, is a human being in the full sense of the term and who demands the right to  participate fully in the life of the community. Thatismydesire,MrPresident,MrDirector-  General, and it is the desire of my country and my government, conveyed to you in all  humility and earnestness on this occasion which you have so generously granted me.
(6.18) I am aware that these high hopes may seem idealistic in view of the crisis of mis-  understanding experienced by the world today, but I have found a proverb rich in folk  wisdom to illustrate my optimistic belief that, as Archibald McLeish put it, it is still  possible for us to choose between living together or dying alone: or in the words of the  great stateswoman Melina Mercouri, between the dead who weep at night and those who await  the dawn. The saying that 'the darkest hour is before the dawn' sums up my personal belief  that crises are not always harmful, but may'also produce new beginnings, developments and  solutions.
(6.19) Despite the murky conflicts in Central America and the Caribbean; despite the stormy  seas of confrontation in the Middle East, and our awareness of the economic and political  difficulties besetting the world, I would repeat, Mr President, Mr Director-General, and  fellow-delegates, that with our eyes turned towards the future with our confidence in each  other and in our ability to understand and love each other, and with our faith in Unesco,  we have no fear. Let us advance, let us not lose hope. The darkest hour is before the  dawn. Thank you, Mr Chairman.  Like so many others represented here, my country attends the
(7.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  also like to thank her for her kind congratulations.
(7.2) Inowgive the floor to H.E. Mr Onofre Corpuz, Minister of Education, Culture and  Sports and head of the Philippine delegation.  I thank the head of the Dominican delegation for her comprehensive address. I would
8.1 Mr CORPUZ (Philippines) :  Excellencies and delegates, ladies and gentlemen, my delegation wishes to express  its sincerest felicitations to you, Mr President, upon your election. We meet in  conference at a time of tension. But each one of us has a commitment to the lofty  ideals of Unesco, towards a better world, and your leadership will ensure that those  ideals will prevail in our proceedings.
8.2 The Philippine delegation is impressed by the conceptual clarity and struc-  tural coherence of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985, and agrees with  the Executive Board that document 22 C/5 'marks a new stage in Unesco's action'.  Its format in fact derives from the directives of the General Conference; at the  same time it bears witness to the conspicuous fidelity of the Director-General to  those directives, as well as his unrelenting insistence on discipline and clarity  in presentation.
8.3 We have a cautious attitude regarding the early utility of the activities  proposed under Major Programme I, but we hope for good results. Nevertheless, when  a comparison is made of the proposed budgetary support for this programme, on the  one hand, with that allocated to Major Programme XII on the other, it might appear  curious, if not anomalous, that we shall spendalmost $ 2  million for the cost of  some general reflections and studies, and little more than $1 million towards the  elimination of prejudice, intolerance, racism and apartheid. We suggest that a  reconsideration be made of these allocations.  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,
8.4 The other major programmes are so wide-ranging, and their interrelationships,  both amongst each other and with other global concerns, are so complex, that we  can comment on only a few.
8.5 Major Programme II, 'Education for all', is properly referred to as a major  ethical responsibility of Unesco. Indeed, the substantial achievement of education  for all - if in fact it is to be more than a mere illusory access, and takes the  form of actual participation of all in the schooling experience - will automatically  reduce the magnitude of the problems that Unesco seeks to resolve through the other  major programmes.
8.6 As a first example, information flows can become at once freer, more mean-  ingful, and more broadly based, only when individuals and communities are literate.  We submit that we can never significantly alter the inequitable situation in com-  munication and the media without the condition sine qua non of universal literacy.
8.7 Other obvious examples are the discrimination against girls and women: the  backwardness of science and technology in some societies and even the existence of  prejudice, intolerance, racism and apartheid all of which are partly sustained by  depriving human beings of education.
8.8 My delegation takes pride, Mr President, in reporting that for more than a  half-century now, school enrolments in our country have always been high, reaching  over 13.5 million pupils and students this year. To this must be added another
3.5 million young people and adults served by our non-formal or continuing educa-  tion programmes. We also are able to accommodate several thousand foreign students  who attend our colleges and universities every year, particularly in the fields of  medicine, engineering and agriculture.
8.9 This year we inaugurated a new primary education curriculum to renew this  level, to reduce urban rural inequalities, and to adjust the content of our educa-  tion to the imminent development challenges of the next decade on the eve of the  next century. Our experience therefore demonstrates that the goal of education  for all is attainable by developing countries, although the costs, as in our case,  invariably constitute a large portion of our resources.
8.10 As to Major Programme III, 'Communication inthe serviceofman',we appreciate  that deeply-rooted conflicts of interest and profound differences of opinion are  involved. These differences and conflicts necessarily allow only the most cautious  and pragmatic activities to be undertaken by the Organization. If the goal of a  new world information and communication order consequently remains distant and  remote, we know that we are all very much alive to the need to attain it; in the  Director-General's words, its attainment must be seen as 'an evolving and continu-  ing process'. Mr President, it is on this issue that the General Conference of  Unesco is often regarded by outside observers as 'hopelessly' even 'acrimoniously'  divided. This is superficial and inaccurate. It is true that the majority cate-  gorically calls for a new information and communication order, but let us all  acknowledge that the General Conference has so far sanctioned programme activities  in this area that aredecidedlyreasonable and moderate. In other words, dialogue  is alive amongst us and we are communicating. My delegation would, however call  attention to the possible inconsistency between the principle of the free flow of
579    information and the practice of some countries of gathering and maintaining secret  hoards of information about other countries, their economies and their politics  and withholding these from the information flow, except to use them systematically  against the other countries. We wish also to deplore the lack of accountability  of international media interests or industries to peoples and societies whose lives  and well-being they affect, often profoundly.
8.11 In connection with Major Programme IV, 'The formulation and application of  education policies', let me remind the General Conference that thecurrent President  of the South-East Asian Ministers of Education Organization (SEAMEO), which was  established in 1966 by the Governments of Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines,  Singapore and Thailand, is the distinguished head of delegation of Malaysia. This  regional organization serves as a valuable forum for policy discussions, and as a  mechanism for implementing regional educational projects.
8.12 Welcoming the emphasis laid on questions related to the human environment  and terrestrial and marine resources, my delegation would suggest that the concept  of the ownership of natural resources be tempered and moderated by the concept of  stewardship. This concept of stewardship is based on the fact that a people or a  nation is constituted by all those who have lived in the past, by the present  generations and by the generations who will come in the future. Consequently, those  of us who are alive today are not in any way the exclusive owners of our nations'  resources: we have to regard ourselves as trustees, custodians, or stewards, using  the resources for our needs and well-being, but ensuring that we pass on these  resources in a fit condition for the use and benefit of future generations.
8.13 We recommend a similar attitude with regard to culture, which is that part  of the human habitat that is shaped by the human presence, and not given to us by  nature. It is not only species of flora and fauna that die out and disappear;  species of customs, folkways, values and institutions - all parts of the identity  that makes us human in a cultural location - also change or disappear in the face  of modernization, urbanization and globalization. Unesco's affirmation of the  equal dignity of all cultures and of the fundamental importanceof cultural identity  deserves our fullest support.
8.14 My delegation, Mr President, reiterates our utter condemnation of apartheid.  Apartheid is usually condemned because it dehumanizes its victims: in our view,  Sir, apartheid equally brutalizes, and corrupts, those who practise it. Its  present victims suffer from their political weakness, which is temporary. But the  perpetrators of apartheid will bear the permanent stigma of theircorruptedhumanity  throughout the history of mankind.
8.15 Mr President, alongside most of the proposed programmes for the coming bien-  nium are budgetary allocations in support of co-operative or assistance activities  designed to benefit developing member countries. It is obvious that the brunt of  these costs will be borne by the largest contributor countries. The Philippine  delegation admires them for their success in developing theirpeoples' capabilities.  We commend them for the consistency of their sense of community, within Unesco,  with the developing member countries. Much of the impetus towards global perspec-  tives and global approaches to world concerns has likewise come from the developed  countries, and we trust that these perspectives and concerns which now engage the  human family will continue to receive their contributions, and ours. Thank you,  Mr President.
(9.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  his congratulations to me.
(9.2) I now give the floor to H.E. Senator Charles Maynard, Minister of Education, Health,  Sports and Youth Affairs and head of the delegation of Dominica.  I thank the head of the Philippine delegation. I would also like to thank him for
10.1 Mr MAYNARD (Dominica) :  Mr President, distinguished colleagues, first of all let me pay my respects  to you, Mr President, and congratulate you on your election to this high office.  You have already proved, Sir, that the trust we have placedin youwaswelldeserved.  Your guidance of our deliberations so far has satisfied the criteria that the
580    ancient Romans expected great public figures to meet, namely pietas, simplicitas  and gravitas. If I were to attempt a crude translation in this august and scholarly  assembly, I would say that these suggest wisdom, humility and fairplay, anddignity  of demeanour fortified by a tendency to be firm.
10.2 Mr President, the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985 is a tremendous  achievement, and I must first of all commend and compliment the Director-General  and the Secretariat on an excellent piece of work. The document contains a  treasury of ideas laudable for their clarity, coherence, innovation and, above all,  ease of implementation. It therefore embodies, in a very real way, the spirit of  co-operation. It is moreover consonant with the needs of Member States, especially  those in the group of developing countries of which Dominica is a member.
10.3 Mr President, Dominica welcomes the proposals for a 6 per cent increase in  the budget, which we feel is the essential minimum for the effective continuation  and development of Unesco's extensive work in the fields of education, culture,  science, technology and communication. We welcome the new types of activity which  have been included in the programme. They reaffirm Unesco's commitment to respond  to the issues which are most fundamental to its Member States. Some of the activi-  ties of special concern to us include Subprogramme 111.1.3, 'Methods for the plan-  ning, programming and functioning of communication'; Subprogramme XI.3.4, 'Action  to promote the arts, literature and crafts'; Subprogramme VIII.3.3, 'Implementation  of pilot projects'; and Subprograme 111.3.2, 'Acquisition of appropriate plant and  equipment and endogenous production of equipment'.
10.4 Dominica is particularly pleased to note the increased emphasis on action-  oriented programmes. The vast majority of Unesco's Member States are developing  countries €or which the fields covered by Unesco are of vital importance in their  development. As a developing country, Dominica feels that studies and other  reflective activities are very important in pointing to the directions and courses  of action required to deal with problems identified. However, we in small devel-  oping countries are sometimes supplied with more experts than we can cope with or  accommodate, and each report is followed by another report with little or no re-  sources to meet the needs identified. That has not of course been our experience  with Unesco. The prompt response of the Director-General and his staff to our  requests must be placed on record here, in particular the dispatch with which we  were given assistance to prepare our education sector survey. This has gone a  long way towards allowing us to improve the quality of life of our people within  Unesco's fields of competence. That is why we very much welcome the emphasis on  action-oriented programmes including - to name a few - the new subprogramme on  informatics, the imaginatively designed fellowship programmes, the expanded Sub-  programmes 11.1.4, 11.3.1, 11.5.1, 11.5.2 and 11.5.3 - all of which focus on educa-  tion for illiterates, young school-leavers and populations in rural areas. The  latter activities in particular are very significant for Dominica. The education  and subsequent development of our total population are for us synonymous with the  development of our nation. We believe that development is the child of knowledge.  It is within this framework that we support the priority giventoMajorProgrammeI1,  'Education for all'.
10.5 We are pleased to note the substantial increase in funds allocated to Major  Programme XI, 'Culture and the future'. This cleariydemonstratestheOrganization's  commitment to respond to the recommendations of the World Conference on Cultural  Policies held in Mexico City in 1982. We welcome this thrust, because cultural  development is of crucial importance to Dominica.  independent status, cultural development has a key role to play in the positive  evolution of our people and of our society. In that connection, we welcome the  remarks of the Director-General in another context, when he saw the results of  Unesco's efforts leading to 'a veritable renaissance of relations between all human  beings'. We see the beginning of a renaissance of culture in our own State and our  region with its diversity of cultures. We hope that Unesco will continue to lend  support in this vital area of our development.
10.6 We also welcome very much the programmes in document 22 C/5 which respond  to the needs of small island developing countries like Dominica and other States  in the Caribbean. The Caribbean is a group of developing countries made up largely  of small islands with specific needs and concerns which are not necessarily shared  with other countries, even those in the same region. I would draw attention to  the fact that the United Nations has on several occasions singled out small island  developing countries as having a certain specificity of needs and concerns.
10.7 Mr President, a time-worn and very pertinent expression of all that Unesco  represents is embodied in the phrase that all action proceeds out of the minds of  men. Since a central theme that recurs again and again in our deliberations is  peace, it follows that the striving for peace must be nurtured and have its origin  in the hearts and minds of men and of those who come here to consult with one  another on the central concerns of mankind within the area of competence of Unesco.  Because of our history andnewly
581    What in fact I am saying, Mr President, is that we cannot offer, we cannot give,  what we do not have. We cannot give peace if we do not have peace in our hearts  and if peace is not a part of our mental furniture.
10.8 Mr President, like every other belief and philosophy that we cherish, that  of peace requires vigilance: it requires us sometimes to emerge from our comfort  and complacency, and to act.
10.9 Our group of islands in the Caribbean is the home of a gentle, God-fearing  and peace-loving people. It is our view that, in the words of the famous English  poet, John Milton, 'Peace hath her victories no less renowned than war'. A situa-  tion developed recently in our region, that archipelago of islands referred to as  the West Indies, which required us to act.
10.10 The Prime Minister of our country, the Commonwealth of Dominica, the  Hon. Mary Eugenia Charles, is Chairperson of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean  States (OECS), which comprises the islands of Antigua and Barbuda, St. Christopher  and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, Montserrat, Dominica and Grenada. The OECS  embodies a series of historical arrangements spanning a hundred years, and has as  its main objectives mutual support and assistance and a greater voice in relations  with other partners in the Caribbean Community: Trinidad and Tobago, the Bahamas,  Barbados, Guyana, Belize and Jamaica. Article 81 of the OECS Treaty allows members  to get together and to act jointly for their collective security, and to seek out-  side assistance if considered necessary. When some two weeks ago, members of the  Organization learnt of the brutal murder of the Prime Minister of Grenada and  several Ministers of hic Cabinet by a ruthless faction from the army in Grenada,  and when that faction warned that for the next few days they would shoot to kill  anyone who dare to come in sight, whether for food or other essentials of life,  the members of the Organization were Dut on the alert. The faction promised to  put a government together in ten days time, hence there wasnogovernment inGrenada  except the Governor-General, the only legal authority in the country. He sent word  to the Chairman and members of the OECS, and the provisions of the treaty were  promptly invoked.
10.11 Mr President, his letter reads as fallows: 'Dear Prime Minister, You are  aware that there is a vacuum of authority in Grenada following the killing of the  Prime Minister and the subequent serious violation of human rights and bloodshed.  I am therefore seriously concerned at the lack of internal security in Grenada.  Condequently, I am requesting your help to assist me in stabilizing this grave and  dangerous situation. It is my desire that a peace-keeping force should be estab-  lished in Grenada to facilitate the return to peace and tranquillity and also the  return to democratic rule. In this connection, I am also seeking from the United  States of America from Jamaica and from the Organizationof EasternCaribbeanstates  through its common Chairman, the Hon. Eugenia Charles, in the spirit of the treaty  established in that organization to which your country is a signatory. Yours  faithfully, Paul Scoon, Governor-General.
10.12 Our Prime Minister, the Hon. Mary Eugenia Charles, is well known regionally  and internationally for her sincerity, sense of fair play and justice. She and  the other members of the OECS called on Barbados and Jamaica, and realizing that  the Grenada situation could not be tackled by those groups of islands acting alone,  assistance was sought from the United States Government. It is the group of  islands and not, repeat, not the United States Government that acted and invoked  the provision of the Charter and decided to make the pre-emptive strike to arrest  a threat to the collective security of the group. Our Prime Minister has disclosed  that on that small island of Grenada were 100 armoured vehicles (we do not have a  single armoured vehicle in any of the other islands of the group) and five armoured  tanks. In addition to this is the staggering fact that four huge warehouses of  ammunition were found near the airport.
10.13 Mr President, the Cubans have themselves condemned the brutal murder of  Maurice Bishop, and have said that no problem or dispute whatever could justify  such a dastardly act.
10.14 Mr President, calm will soon be returning to Grenada, and there is no doubt  that the people of Grenada and of the whole region are happy at the turn of events.  Many countries are proposing a neutral peace-keeping force to oversee a return to  normalcy. That is a view shared by us and other members of the group. However,  no peace-keeping force could now be spoken of if the pre-emptive strike,undertaken,  not by the Americans, but by countries sharing a collective security pact had not  acted promptly. As a result of action taken at the request of the only legal  authority on Grenada, Grenadians will now be able to determine their own destiny,  and their own form of government, a proposition that none of us would wish to  deny.
10.15 Not too long ago, Mr Bishop was in Dominica: and while we did not endorse  what he stood for on ideological grounds, we liked him as a person. Jacqueline Creft  also came to visit, and as a Minister of Education she was very dear to our hearts.  If a group of thugs, God forbid, under whatever guise, were to seize power in our  own land and kill all our ministers and embark on a reign of terror, and began to  destroy all semblance of civilized existence, as happened in Grenada, the people  of Dominica would expect our brothers to act to liberate us and to act swiftly,  because we are all kith and kin in that small region.
10.16 Mr President, shortly the American and the Caribbean troops will leave  Grenada and make room foraCommonwealthpeace-keepingforce. Thepeopleof Grenada  and the people of the region now overwhelmingly share a common experience of  liberation. I appreciated very much the comment by the distinguished representa-  tive of the Dominican Republic that 'crises are not always harmful'.
10.17 Mr President, there is no bitterness or rancour, and we continue to be a  people sharing a common history in a peace-loving part of the community of nations.
10.18 Mr President, Dominica welcomes the proposed activities in Major Programmes  III and VII, relating to communication, an area of vital concern to Dominica. We  also welcome the many activities of the programme on informatics, biotechnology  and renewable sources of energy. However, there is one important area which seems  to be missing in the programme, and that is research and development in the agro-  industry. At the meeting of Caribbean ministers responsible for science and tech-  nology in Jamaica in April this year, the two priority areas identified for the  subregion were informatics and the agro-industry. The draft programme has recog-  nized the priority nature of informatics but provision has not been made for  research and development in the agro-industry. This is an area of crucial concern  not only to Dominica and the Caribbean but to the vast majority of developing  countries. Agro-development and food production are matters of high priority in  developing countries, for most of which agriculture is the single most important  economic activity. We feel that agro-industrial research should therefore be one  of the key areas singled out for attention. A breakthrough in the agro-industry  would have a catalytic effect developing the economies of the developing countries  which could make a great difference to the developing world.
10.19 Mr President, my delegation welcomes the increased emphasis laid on the  decentralization of activities from Headquarters to the field. Since this tends  in practice to mean decentralization to regional offices, it is necessary to take  account of the fact that to overcome language barriers the Caribbean would like to  see the decentralization of activities affecting the Caribbean to its regional  suboffice which has recently been strengthened. This office with its inter-  disciplinary capacity is admirably suited to playing a key role in the decentral-  ization of activities affecting the subregion.
10.20 Mr President, we welcome the provision made in Subprogramme IV.2.1 among  others for the Caribbean network of educational innovation for development, CARNEID.  As an organization responsible for major project activities in the Caribbean,  CARNEID plays a major role. Caribbean governments are very pleased with the work  CARNEID is doing in the Caribbean and sees it as the centre around which educational  development in the region will revolve.
10.21 Mr President, an issue of grave concern to the Caribbean is its under-  participation in the elected organs of Unesco. At the fourth extraordinary session  of the General Conference in November 1982, the eleven Caribbean Member States of  Unesco formed a subgroup in order to promote the more effective participation of  the Caribbean countries in the work and activities of the Organization. It was in
1962 that the first Caribbean country joined the Organization and since then, the  number of Caribbean members has grown to thirteen. When electoral groups were first  established as a geographical basis for election to the Executive Board in 1968,  six seats were allocated to the Latin American group and at the time all six seats  were held by Latin American States. Since then, the number of seats allocated to  the Latin American and Caribbean region has been increased to eight to reflect the  increased membership of the group resulting from the admission of new Caribbean  Member States.
10.22 At this session of the General Conference, Mr President, we have admitted  two new members to full membership: St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and  St. Christopher-Nevis. However, this new addition is not reflected in increased  membership of Caribbean countries in the Executive Board. The Caribbean countries,  representing more than one-third of the number of countries in the region, have at  present only one of the eight seats on the Executive Board. This will become nine  at this General Conference session. Mr President, the weight of the evidence, the  conventions developed in other groupings and the spirit of the Unesco Constitution  would suggest that the subgroup within Latin America and the Caribbean consisting  of the English-speaking Caribbean and Suriname should have at least three seats on
583    the Executive Board. Paragraph 2 of Article V.A, of the Constitution stipulates  that: 'in electing the members of the Executive Board the General Conference shall  also have regard to the diversity of cultures and a balanced geographical distri-  bution'. The Caribbean has a distinct cultural identity which, if the spirit of  the Unesco Constitution is to be respected, should be adequately reflected by the  increased representation of the subregion on the Executive Board.
10.23 Mr President, Unesco's ability to speak eloquently (as it must) on the issues  of the day will be weakened unless we correct the imbalance which now exists in the  lack of effective representation of the Caribbean on the Executive Board. The  Caribbean considers it essential that the existing inequality in the distribution  of seats on the Executive Board for the region be rectified, and is asking for the  support of all delegations in ensuring a fair and equitable distribution of seats.
10.24 Mr President, we consider Unesco a great body of men and women dedicated to  the advancement of the human race through education, science and technology and  communication. Our deliberations and actions here in these few weeks will pro-  foundly affect the path and progress of mankind for decades to come. Let us remove  any bitterness from our hearts and let this forum demonstrate our desire to bring  the world out of chaos to community. Mr President, I pray God's blessing on our  deliberations.
(11.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  him for hic congratuiations.
(11.2) I now give the floor to H.E. Dr Rodrigo.Escobar Navia, Minister of National Educa-  tion and head of the Colombian delegation.  I thank you the head of the delegation of Dominica. I would also like to thank
(12.1) Mr ESCOBAR NAVIA (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates: may I, Mr President,  offer you once again the Colombian Government's sincerest congratulations on your well-  deserved appointment to the presidency of this assembly; such a fitting choice endows it  with a firm and sound foundation for the complete success which the world awaits, indeed  demands of this conference. Our discussions must reflect our earnest desire to answer the  questions of a world in anguish which does not always succeed in having its voice heard in  the elegant, remote and tranquil confines of Unesco. We should follow the advice of some  of today's great thinkers and return to fundamental questions and governing principles:  this is the only way to steer the right course in particularly complex times. We should  try to define the purpose of education in relation to life in the world of today; as a  Spanish scholar once said, the statesman should consider how to adapt the State to the  nation; when it comes to education, we should avoid adapting it to education itself and to  teachers. This is how bureaucrats think, who see officialdom as being solely concerned  with devising plans for passing on business from one government department to another.
(12.2) Against the background of today's problems, we should once again make it clear that  education is for life, not the other way round, just as the state is made for man rather  than man or the community for the state. These age-old principles need to be reaffirmed,  today perhaps more than ever before, precisely because we are living through a period of  change, complexity and uncertainty. This, by its very nature, makes the need for clarity  so acute that the scene is set for the emergence of those dominating historical figures  who, by over-simplifying problems, have invariably been the barbarous destroyers of the  cultures of peoples, never their genuine promoters or defenders, as is obvious ever properly  promoting or defending them to any close student of the turning-points in the history of  civilizations.
(12.3) As always in the past, but even more so today, we need more and better education,  more science and more widespread technology. We need them for life, for work and for  productivity; we need them for education and for learning to live with those far away, not  just with our immediate neighbours and those around us; to live with those who are different,  not only those who are like us; we need them for harmonious and productive coexistence with  nature and in order to organize a just and creative interdependence of nations. In a nut-  shell, we need a living type of education for peace and life. Let us start with the example  before our eyes of those whose lofty educational responsibilities are the inevitable conse-  quence of the nature and influence of the power they wield. We need education for peace,  not destruction; for respect, not for riding roughshod over obligations; for a belief in  reason, not disregard of it, as we have seen, alas, in the regrettable violence unleashed  in Grenada, which once again brought out the absurd loqic and deadly destruction which  accompany the recourse to forcebya strongpower. Rejectingthe sweeping over-simplifications  which attribute confusion and crisis to trends in education, science, technology and cultural  development, we must have a clear perception of the pressing need to continue to promote  science and culture on an ever-widening front, precisely in order to overcome the contra-  dictions stemming from the excesses, distortions and depletion of resources due to varying  degrees of scientific development between ancient national cultures and the still young and  precarious world civilization, the first genuinely universal civilization in history. The  time has come to adopt a grand design of cultural, scientific and technological development,  in which civilization will once again find its most basic and effective expression in the
587    field of culture. Culture is the natural environment and home of man on earth. Unlike  other beings, man must be raised in a specific culture, so devised as to make it possible  for Pascal's 'thinking need', despite its fragility, to take root, flourish and come to  glorious fruition throughout the world.
(12.4) Development, history and progress have always depended on the miraculous exploits  of man as a cultivated being acting within the limitless sphere of culture; they have never  been the product of untamed nature, still less of natural resources, as is apparently  believed by some of those active in support of the modernization, advancement and rise of  nations today. Whatever the claims of the new barbarians, dazzled by the apparent clarity  of their over-simplified views, the crisis of tension and conflicts created in the older  cultures precisely by the pressure of the scientific and cultural revolution and the dis-  semination of western urban industrial civilization, with its infrastructures, resources,  mechanisms and practical results, is not to be solved by providing less, but rather more,  and better,education,science and technology.  human and social sciences; these cannot be allowed to remain so manifestly underdeveloped  by comparison with the natural sciences, whose visible achievements give man mastery over  his environment. Our cultural assets, forged by the labours of mankind over the centuries,  must be made available to the whole world, particularly that part of the world most in need  of a guiding light, namely the developing countries. They must be made available for life,  not death; for peace, not a futile and sterile arms race, for a shared future in which  human.potentia1 will be enhanced and fulfilled, making use of satellite communication tech-  niques, information technology, radio, television, the cinema, the press and books, all of  them links in our new found solidarity. At each turning in the long, age-old journey of  man, a choice has to be made; once again we have to choose between life and annihilation;  between creative co-operation and destructive isolation. Paradoxically enough, co-operation  on these lines may be easier and more self-evident at a time when world economic recession  makes economic co-operation more difficult than ever, thus creating a particularly urgent  need for international solidarity in the field of cultural, scientific and technological  development. This is the field where all genuine progress takes place. If we concentrate  our efforts here, we shall give the peoples of the world control of their own destinies,  all helping each other in turn so that the wealth of all sankind may continue to promote  the welfare of all members of the human race.
(12.5) Mr President, I speak on behalf of Colombia, a country which in many ways has a  special position both in Latin America and in the world as a whole. It has two seaboards,  on the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans; bordering on five of the Amazonian and Andean  countries, it is extremely varied both for its geographical features and the ethnic com-  position of its population; it is a country in the throes of social transformation, with  a large middle class trying to expand creatively over Latin America and the world. Our  national ethos was moulded in the Western humanist tradition: our population is universal  in its outlook, feelings and interests, open to a range of ideologies and moving towards  a new equality. Distinguished delegates, in the name of my country, may 1,draw your atten-  tion to the central concern of our educational, scientific and cultural policy: briefly,  this might be expressed as the humanization of education, science and culture. Here I  would emphasize that our objective is man, who produces and reproduces the conditions  .ander which he lives.
(12.6) Our sights are set on the majority of the population, and our concern is to give  dignity to the processes which bind together societies and individuals, namely, work,  communication and interaction. Often these are thwarted by factors such as the exploita-  tion of labour, unemployment, the absence of dialogue and the tendency for inter-group  relations to be converted into a form of domination whichisadenialof basichumandignity.  It is our hope that education, as a permanent, integrated training process, in which the  human being is seen as a dynamic whole, the aim being to make him his own master, with  rights, ,duties and respect for his fellowmen, will prepare him to play his part in the  rapid changes required to give society more equitable structures in not only the economic  but also the social, political and cultural fields.
(12.7) We recognize the value of science and technology as an aspect of contemporary  culture which is as important as theology and the liberal arts were in an earlier age.  We hope, however, that man as a new Prometheus, the triumph of modern rationality in the  world of today, will not distort its image as given to us by its creater; that he will be  capable of directing his activity towards a still higher purpose than rationality, that  of being an instrument in the service of the fulfilment of society as a whole. As Kant  said, instrumental rationality must submit forthwith to the requirements of reason as a  categorical imperative, as the ability to think far beyond the boundaries of our knowledge,  and to open up unknown horizons which will bring the goal of freedom closer for all. Only  thus can we inhabit the earth as true human beings, that is, in a meaningful way. Only  thus can we achieve culture, by shaping the present and building the future in a rational  manner, in our own image and likeness.
(12.8) It is common knowledge that education cannot be reduced to the mere acquisition of  knowledge, though this is part of it. Today, more than ever before, we need to extend the  scope of education beyond vocational training, beyond the sphere of scientific and tech-  nological knowledge, to encompass culture as a whole, including political and social  behaviour, life in towns, the beliefs and traditions which shape peoples, the use of  leisure, art, and ways of promoting creativity and community life.
(12.9) These are our guidelines in directing our educational, scientific and cultural  policies towards the solution of our vast urgent needs, such asmodernization, decentraliza-  tion and democratic planning for intersectoral co-ordination, for an improvement in stan-  dards, for increased participation in the system and for greater possibilities of acceding  to it and finding a secure place within it. With this in view we have introduced integral  lifelong education activities as part of the national education campaign co-ordinated by  the Colombian Ministry of Education and the Presidency of the Republic. The objectives of  the campaign are as follows: to create nation-wide support for making education available  to ali; to eradicate illiteracy throughout the country; to provide basic education for the  Firm encouragement must be given to the
588    most deprived of our citizens; to channel the resources of both state and private institu-  tions into educational and cultural programmes: to integrate the mass media and information  technology into the educational process in Colombia, and to develop informal integral life-  long education activities.
(12.10) We have also made provision for distance education for basic adultvocationaltrain-  ing at the primary, secondary and intermediate vocational levels, working through state and  private establishments and using the television and radio broadcasting network. At the  higher level, an open university broadcasting system had been introduced, which will have  two subsystems. The first will be concerned with the production of educational broadcasts  and their transmission by means of the latest educational technology, the second with the  execution and monitoring of the actual broadcasts, student supervision and assessment.
(12.11) AS regards cultural development, we are trying to strengthen the role of cultural  activity as part of social development, extend cultural action to rural areas and bring  them into the overall national context, encourage the preservation of the cultural iden-  tities of ethnic minorities and protect national and universal artistic values by fostering  the required level of critical awareness.
(12.12) Over and above this national effort to promote consistent policies in education,  science and culture, it is the Colombian Government's desire to participate in the joint  work of the Third World countries and of organizations which, like Unesco, put forward  programes for Latin America and the Caribbean in particular and for the world as a whole.  The Major Project on Education in Latin America and the Caribbean has the year 2000 as its  target date. It is based on an inventory of fundamental educational requirements, still  outstanding today, which have to be met for our countries to be able to develop. We are  convinced of the need to fight for a new international order in the fields of education,  science and culture. Progress towards more advanced stages of economic and social develop-  ment is only possible if the efforts being made in these fields are backed by daring,  creative and comprehensive policies for culture, science, technology and education. No  organization is better suited to this task than Unesco, whose Medium-Term Plan clearly  points out the way ahead in this challenging and promising adventure.
(12.13) To conclude on these lines, may I suggest that we need to persevere in the quest  for new patterns of international co-operation which will make culture a key factor in the  integral development of both nations and individuals. We need to devise new innovative  programmes for co-operation through the existing regional and subregional machinery  ( O M ,  Ibero-American Bureau of Education, Permanent Executive Secretariat of the 'Andrés  Bellow' Convention, Caribbean Development Co-operation Committee, CARICOM and so on) with  a view to making horizontal co-operation between nations and instftutions more relevant  and flexible,.and encouraging the pooling of resources and methods. Let us join hands so  as to create at least the beginnings of an international cultural order as a setting for  the renewal, strengthening, consolidation and flowering of the age-old cultures of mankind,  so long separated from each other.
(12.14) This is not a plea for paternalistic aid, nor for purely financial or material  assistance to increase ownership and consumption. The time has come for us to combine our  efforts towards progress, exploring together the unlimited possibilities of 'man as a whole,  and the whole of mankind', to quote a recent apt definition of the development of the human  race on the threshold of the second millenium.
(12.15) Through all these activities we are contributing to the creation of a new world:  a world of freedom and integration for our children's children. As the Colombian President,  Beiisario Betancur, once said 'There is no nobler or profounder aim than that of acquiring,  and helping others to acquire an education. To those of you who have something to give, I  say that the time has come for generosity, if we are to save ourselves from disaster.  Facts count more than words. Let us work for one race, the human race: in one language,  the language of peace; with one goal, that of progress'. Thank you, Mr President.
(13.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  congratulations.
(13.2) I now give the floor to the distinguished Mr Edmund Hennelly, Chairperson of the  I thank the head of the Colombian delegation for his address and for his kind  Mobil Oil Corporation and head of the United States delegation.
14.1 Mr HENNELLY (United States of America) :  gentlemen, it is a privilege to address this distinguished audience on behalf of  the President, the Government and the people of the United States of America. I  bring you their best wishes for the success of the twenty-second session of the  General Conference of Unesco. On behalf of the United States delegation, I wish  to extend to you, Mr President, our heart-felt congratulations on your unanimous  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and
589    election as Chairman of this session of the General Conference. We wish you God-  speed in the challenging period ahead, with the knowledge and confidence that under  your able leadership this Conference will achieve its important objectives.
14.2 Whoever thinks about the challenges we face at this Conference will, I  believe, be struck by a sense of irony. Never has there been a greater need for  international co-operation in Unesco's legitimate sphere of activities, but never  has Unesco's role been so clouded in controversy. I should like to reflect on this  observation from the perspective of my government and delegation and suggest what  we believe should be done.
14.3 For many of my generation, for those who fought in and lived through the  Second World War, the birth of international organizations in the early post-war  years was a source of profound hope. We recognized, then as now, that the corner-  stone of a peaceful world had to be human dignity, social justice, racial equality  and material progress for all people, not just a privileged few. And we were not  naïve. We understood that history largely records the failure of men to achieve  precisely those ends. We put our faith in international co-operation, in dialogue  among people and in the new international institutions, such as Unesco, then being  forged by men of goodwill from all over the world.
14.4 But today, the dream that inspired those hopes is fading. President Reagan  asked in his 26 September speech to the UnitedNationsGeneralAssembly,and ïquote,  'What has happened to the dream of the United Nations' founders?' The President  continued: 'The answer is clear. Governments got in the way of the dreams of the  people. Dreams became issues of East versus West. Hopes became political rhetoric,  progress becamse a search for power and domination.'
14.5 In many respects, the founders reserved their greatest hope and aspirations  for Unesco. Certainly, the stirring words in Unesco's Constitution seemed self-  evident to my generation: 'Since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the  minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed'.
14,6 The disappointment we feel is, no doubt, partially a result of those early  expectations, and yet there is genuine cause for disappointment when we survey the  world today. Instead of peace, we see conflict: in Lebanon, as in much of the  Middle East; in Afghanistan: in Central America; in South-East Asia; in Chad, in  southern Africa. Instead of co-operation among people, we see terrorists acting  against combatants and non-combatants alike to achieve fanatical ends. In this  respect, I shall say a few words at the conclusion of my speech about some recent  events not really germane to Unesco's work, which others have brought up in this  Conference.
14.7 Clearly, responsibility for all the problems of the world cannot be laid on  Unesco's doorstep. But the fact that we who make up Unesco's membership have not  done more to achieve Unesco's noble objectives takes ontrafficdimensions. My  country refuses, however, to concede that those objectives are forever beyond man's  reach. We believe Unesco can and must strive towards the goals set forth in its  Constitution, and I quote, 'to contribute to peace and security by promoting colla-  boration among the nations through education, science and culture in order to  further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for human rights  and fundamental freedoms which are affirmed for the peoples of the world, without  distinction of race, sex, language or religion'. If we did not remain convinced  that Unesco could contribute to those ends, we would not be so critical of its  shortcomings.
14.8 How does my government believe Unesco can better realize its potential? How  do we believe it can better serve the interests of peace, human dignity and material  wellbeing? ThOs@ are fair questions, which deserve an honest and frank answer. But,  before responding, I wish to make two points very clear.
14.9 First of all, my government and the American people are well aware of the  many good things Unesco does, often under difficult circumstances. Unesco has many  excellent programmes to promote education at all levels to advance the methods and  spirit of science throughout the world, to preserve the rich cultural heritage of  mankind. We support and applaud those activities. They do make a difference in  the struggle against illiteracy, ignorance and intolerance. They can contribute  to the intellectual and moral wellbeing of men and women everywhere. They do  provide a better framework for the pursuit of peace.
14.10 Secondly, we do not blame Unesco's problems on the many splendid men and  women who work in Unesco. Through all the ranks of Unesco officials at Headquarters  and abroad, one can find a high level of intelligence, competence and dedicated  professionalism. If Unesco has problems in the sphere of administration, they are  caused, in our view, by the nature of a bureaucracy that has grown very large and  very centralized - and which is asked to respond to too many competing priorities,  to meet too many needs with too little unifying sense of purpose.
14.11 These two positive points should not obscure the fact that the government  and people of the United States perceive serious, and growing, flaws in some of the  Organization's activities - flaws which could cripple the Organization. These flaws  are perceived in the United States as undermining principles which we believe must  be the foundation of Unesco's activities, principles which are clearly stated in  the Constitution. Perceptions in the United States that these principles are being  forgotten or diluted in Unesco are so pervasive and so deep-seated that Congress  has already passed measures, and is seriously considering others, which would com-  pel my government, under certain conditions, towithhold its contributiontoUnesco's  budget. This, in part, has caused the Executive Branch to undertake a thorough  review of United States relations with Unesco.
14.12 I will briefly summarize our concerns: First of all, we are increasingly  distressed by the philosophical underpinnings of many Unesco programmes which  emphasize the power and welfare of the State rather than the rights and welfare of  the individual; Secondly, the work of Unesco is at times compromised by extraneous  political considerations which have nothing to do with concrete programes to  reduce illiteracy, preserve the world's cultural heritage and foster scientific  exchanges. Certainly, Unesco is an organization of governments, and it must,  almost by definition, be a political organization; But the impact of the political  disagreements that inevitably arise could be contained and muted if the Member  States recognize that Unesco can only carry out a limited number of objectives well.  Unesco cannot and should not attempt to resolve the entire range of political and  economic problems that beset the world - problems which, in any case, are the  legitimate concerns of the United Nations Organization or other Specialized Agencies.  By trying to do too much, Unesco risks failing to do anything well. As a political  organization, we must take political events and realities into account in what we  as Member States discuss. But we must not let the Organization become an instrument  for the political purposes of a few. This distinction between what we as govern-  ments discuss, and what we expect this Organization to do, is a critical one, too  often neglected.
14.13 We believe, too, that every Member State must enjoy an equal right to  participate in all Unesco forums and activities. We must respect the principle of  universality. As a parliamentary forum, Unesco should also be conscious of the  warning of the great French philosopher, Alexis de Tocqueville, about the tyranny  of the majority. We need to arrive at decisions, but we also need to follow an  established and fair set of rules and procedures. We have witnessed increasingly  in Unesco a cavalier disregard for established procedures. We believe, in short,  that Unesco: must respect the rule of universality; must limit its activities and  concerns to its mandated functions: must scrupulously follow its established rules  and procedures: must seek a wide consensus on policies and programmes but must  always respect minority views.
14.14 Another area of concern to the United States is Unesco's increasing tendency  to try to deal with problems of immense complexity through rigid, often ideologic-  ally biased, international norms and standards. This tendency is, perhaps, most  evident in the Communication Sector, but it is found in other sectors as well.  The United States has often expressed its support for programmes that would broaden  the dissemination of information throughout the world, would provide training for  communications, and would help develop national and international communications  infrastructures. This is why we support programmes such as the International  Programme for the Development of Communication. But we vigorously oppose any  measures which would attempt to harness the free press in the name of any goal or  objective, which would increase State control and censorship of the media, which  would impose codes of conduct on journalists and communicators. We shall set forth  in more detail our specific reservations and suggestions about the Communications  Sector in the appropriate Commission. However, I must say to you in all candour  that my government is not prepared to endorse ideologically biased programmes which  focus on the activities of the independent media while ignoring the flagrant abuses  of the State-owned and controlled media in so many countries. If Unesco seeks to  discover and root out real obstacles to the free flow and better balanced dissemina-  tion of information throughout the world, let it look at the controls and censor-  ship imposed by totalitarian regimes.
14.15 Another Unesco activity which gives us difficulty is the constant effort to  redefine human rights and make them contingent on some level of material well-  being. We see the muddying of past consensuses on human rights by vague, ill-  defined concepts such as the 'right to solidarity'. What is the corresponding duty  of this so-called right? The duty not to dissent? The duty not to think independ-  ently? Such concepts are of concern because they could be used to promote the  rights and prerogatives of States over the rights of individuals. Indeed, it is  hard to apply them in any meaningful way to the integrity of the person, particul-  arly when compared to time-honoured, concrete protections forthe individual embodied  in the right to a fair trial, freedom from unjust arrest and imprisonment, freedom  from torture and harassment, the freedom to practise one's religion, freedom of
591    movement including immigration, freedom to associate with whomever one chooses,  and freedom of speech. Again, speaking with the frankness and candour which the  seriousness of the subject warrants, I must tell you that my government and my  delegation will not agree to elevate new formulations of human rights concepts to  the stature of those enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We  are prepared to discuss new concepts, and we will listen attentively to those who  believe they can add to the sum total of freedom and human dignity in the world,  but we will not compromise our commitment to traditional human rights in the  process.
14.16 Finally, I would point to an area where there may be some confusion about  the position and motivation of the United States. Our delegations at previous  Executive Board meetings and at the fourth extraordinary session of the General  Conference on the Medium-Term Plan have stated as clearly as it is possible that  the United States does not accept a growth rate for Unesco which is out of line  with other United Nations agencies, and which is in profound disharmony with  economic conditions prevailing in most Member States. That anaccident of exchange  rates affects Unesco's budget is not important. That Unesco's budget has grownand  continues to grow at an unacceptable rate is vitally important. Other international  organizations have taken account of world economic conditions in streamlining their  activities, and in establishing meaningful priorities. For example, the Food and  Agriculture Organization proposes a real growth rate of one half of one per cent  for the next budget period: the World Health Organization, a real growth rate of  minus a fraction of one per cent: the International Atomic Energy Agency, a real  growth rate of 2% per cent; the World Meteorological Organization, a real growth  rate of O per cent: the International Labour Organisation, a real growth rate of
1.92 per cent. The United Nations itself, proposes a real growth rate of seven  tenths of 1 per cent. We believe it is necessary, indeed healthy, for Unesco, to  follow suit and to develop a programme and budget which reflect zero real growth,  with significant absorption of inflationary costs. Programmes of marginal value  can be cut. Obsolete programmes can be abandoned. Other programmes canbedelayed  without serious damage until a more propitious time.
14.17 As the hezd of "y delegation, however, and on instructions from the highest  levels of my government, let me state that our problem with the budget is one of  principle rather than with the specific dollar figures of our contribution. As a  major contributor to the Organization, we believe we have the right and the respon-  sibility to make this point crystal clear, because we believe so strongly that this  Conference offers a chance, perhaps the last chance for Unesco to put its fiscal  house in order.
14.18 Mr President, distinguished delegates, I have spelled out candidly our deep  concerns about Unesco because I am convinced that this Conference can lay those  concerns to rest. Let me stress that I am at your disposal, as are the members of  my delegation, to discuss these issues. I am at your disposal, as are the members  of my delegation, to listen to your points of view. I pledge that my delegation  will make every effort to reach consensus on the items on our agenda. We come  to this General Conference to consult with you, to debate the issues, to reason  together. We ask that Unesco adopt principles that everyone - including the  United States - agrees are fundamental to individual freedom, development and  growth.
14.19 Let me repeat, Mr President, so that there be no misunderstanding: I am at  your disposal as are the members of my deleqation, to discuss these issues, to  listen to your points of view: I pledge that my delegation will make every effort  to reach consensus on the items of our agenda. We come to this General Conference  to consult with you, to debate the issues, to reason together. If we at this  Conference succeed, we can set Unesco once again on a course consistent with man's  noblest sentiments and ambitions. We can rekindle the dream of our founders. It  is still possible - we can make it possible - for Unesco to play its part in ful-  filling their great goals of peace, security and prosperity for all mankind.
14.20 Now, Mr President, I would like to make some comments in reply to the extra-  ordinary statements made by some delegations.
14.21 The United States Government agreed to an urgent and formal request from  the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (E), and joined in a collective  security effort to restore peace and order in Grenada. As we are all aware, the  events on that island since 13 October, which led up to this decision, included  the execution of Prime Minister Bishop, five Cabinet members and other political  and prominent leaders. The continuing deterioration of authority in Grenada, the  threat that this posed to peace and security in the Eastern Caribbean, the actual  and potential danger to approximately 1,000 United States citizens, and the  existence of a shoot-on-sight curfew which threatened anyone who was seen in the  streets in Grenada.
14.22 The OECS took action in response to a directappealfromtheGovernor-General  of Grenada and in accordance with the provisions of the 1981 Treaty on selective  security. As you may recall, OECS Member States are not a party to the Rio Treaty  and are not governed by its provisions. The OECS, after careful deliberations,  determined that a dangerous vacuum of authority onthe island of Grenadaconstituted  an unprecedented threat to the peace and security of the Eastern Caribbean, and  transmitted its concern to the United States Government. We concurred with that  analysis and agreed to provide the transportation, logistics and necessary military  resources requested by OECS Member States, in order to enable the OECS to undertake  the necessary actions to restore order in Grenada. The United States objectives  are clear. The purpose of our involvement is to protect United States citizens  and facilitate the evacuation of all United States citizens and foreign nationals  who may wish to leave: and further to provide support for the Eastern Caribbean  forces as they assist the people of Grenada in restoring order.
14.23 The United States anticipates that the OECS will seek to work with prominent  Grenadians to establish a Provisional Government capable of restoring functioning  institutions and permitting early elections. We do not at this point prejudge just  what Constitutional steps the Provisional Government will take. This is for the  Grenadians themselves to determine.
14.24 While understanding the concerns of Unesco's Member States regarding this  unsettled situation, let me point out that the most appropriate regional organiza-  tions, the Organization of American States (OAS) and the OECS, are now formally  seized with the matter; and it has also come before the United Nations Security  Council. We do not believe that Unesco is an appropriate forumfor discussingthis  political issue, and we urge Member States to allow the proper organizations to  discharge their mandated responsibilities without interference. Finally, we urge  Unesco not to allow itself to be used by some as a platform for ideological,  political debate and to resume its mandated responsibilities. Thank you,  Mr President.
(15.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  would also like to thank him for his congratulations and kind wishes for my success.
(15.2) Finally, I now give the floor to H.E. Mr Issam Khoury, Minister of National Educa-  tion and head of the Lebanese delegation.  I thank the distinguished head of the United States delegation for his remarks. I
(16.1) Mr Khoury (Lebanon) (Translation from the Arabic):  me that the representative of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, a country dear to us and  one to which we are attached by the strongest bonds of affection and esteem, should have  been unanimously elected to preside over this twenty-second session of the General Confer-  ence of Unesco. From the bottom of my heart I offer the President, Mr Said M. Tell, my  warmest congratulations and my sincerest good wishes for his success.  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of great pride and pleasure to  (L'orateur poursuit en francais)
16.2 Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, "ce débat est un qrand moment, celui  OU chaque Etat apporte à tous les autres l'enrichissementdeson expérience propre"  a dit PI. M'Bow. A mon tour, je viens vous porter un messaqe du Liban, l'hommage  d'une patrie à la recherche de la paix, le témoignage d'une blessure qui saigne
593    encore à vif, d'une terre reconnue pour être un creuset de civilisations millé-  naires qui n'ont cessé de s'y succéder ... La guerre, et j'ai failli dire la civi-  lisation de la destruction, tout cela l'a transformé en ruines et en décombres ...
16.3 Je viens, ici, vous rendre un hommage et vous demander une excuse car  j'aurais voulu avec vous, en ce jour, oublier nos lourds soucis et discuter de  l'homme, de sa culture, de sa science, de son évolution, de son avenir ... Mais  l'homme en moi et chez moi est encore tapi au fond de son abri. I1 n'a pu en émer-  ger depuis neuf années... C'est là qu'il respire, quotidiennement, l'odeurdusoufre,  des grenades, des incendies, des obus... car les guerres, et je refuse de parler  d'une guerre, car les guerres des autres - celles des manipulateurs de chaque  groupe qui ont pris mon pays pour théâtre de leurs querelles intestines, qui ont  fait du corps des enfants du Liban de la chair à canon, qui ont fait de l'un des  rares pays libéraux et démocratiques au Moyen-Orient un prétexte et un terrain  d'élection pour s'entre-tuer et faire exploser les conflits - ont montré que la  guerre du Liban n'est autre que la guerre des masques, la guerre des grands chez  les petits.. .
16.4 Nos convictions de démocrates et notre Dassion pour la liberté nous ont  menés bien loin, nous ont fait Dayer le tribut de l'homme libre pour le compte de  chaque citoven, de chaque être dans le monde entier ayant foi en ces valeurs ...  Nous continuons à le payer très cher, tout en qardant farouchement notre dstermi-  nation et notre Foi !
16.5 Vous m'excuserez, Messieurs les délégués, si je vous fais partager les dou-  leurs d'un peuple car je ne suis, face 5 vous, que le témoin vivant d'une terrible  tragédie dont le monde reste souvent encore inconscient ... Cette tragédie, s'ampli-  fiant gravement, menace la paix internationale à travers le drame atroce qui a  éclaté il y a quelques jours à Beyrouth, faisant plus de 400 morts et blessés amé-  ricains et français parmi la "force multinationale".
16.6 Pendant des années, le monde politique a fait la sourde oreille, il s'est  voulu aveugle face à un petit peuple martyr, torture, déchiré, il a refusé de re-  garder couler le sang des innocents ... Cette attitude injuste et indifférente ne  saurait ëtre la vôtre, hommes de pensée et de culture.Vous ëtesceuxquisoutieznent  et encouragent ceux qui prônent la justice face aux injustices du monde, vous êtes  des partisans de l'amour face à la haine et à la rancune, vous êtes des hommes de  paix face à la guerre et aux massacres...
16.7 L'Unesco est un pari pour la paix. Son attitude ne peut être confuse et  timide car vous êtes les premiers responsables de la survie des héritages cultu-  rels, qu'il s'agisse de palais, de monuments, de musées ou de documents. Comment  pourriez-vous admettre que le Liban entier, dans ses villes historiques (Byblos,  Sidon, Tyr), dans ses temples et leurs colonnes (Baalbeck, Triooli), dans ses  civilisations qui se sont succédé ... et, par-dessus tout, bien plus fondamenta-  lement que dans les pierres et les vestiqes, dans ses hommes, soit à tout instant  menacé d'anéantissement... Je vous dirai simplement que le nombre des obus qui se  sont abattus sur Beyrouth et ses environs durant le seul mois de septembre dernier  est de l'ordre dedeux cent-seize mille, oui Messieurs, deux cent-seize mille obus.
16.8 Ma détermination à être des vôtres aujourd'hui est semblable à celle d'un  cardiaque qui ne oeut que se confier aux meilleurs cardiologues ... Moiaussi,porte-  parole d'une immense patrie de liberté et derencontres, je suis lànour que l'Unesco,  capitale de la pensée du monde, Drenne conscience ducomplot visant 5 l'anéantisse-  ment du Liban, pays de dialoque et de tolérance. Ce complot, s'il se développe, va  toucher l'ensemble du monde civilisé, cela ne fait aucun doute.
16.9 Wonsieur le Président, Messieurs les délégués, avant de prendre mes fonc-  tions de ministre, j'étais bâtonnier de l'ordre des avocats de Beyrouth. Yon uni-  vers était celui de la pensée juridique, de la défense du droit à la justice et à  la liberté. Rien n'a changé en moi depuis qu'une double fonction politiquem'aété  assignée, celle de ministre de la défense et de ministre de l'éducation nationale.  Mais c'est en homme de loi et de foi que je m'adresse 5 vous car vous êtes bien  évidemment en mesure de saisir véritablement la gravité du complot qui tente, dans  mon pays, de broyer l'homme ! Je viens témoigner devant vous du déchirement dont  vous entendez parler à travers les médias. Je viens vous dire que cette même main  qui signe des achats d'armes pour des millions de livres afin de défendreunpeuple  libre menacé, signe les ordres de reconstruction et de développement de nos écoles  détruites par les canons et la haine des hordes étranqères ignorantes (du reste  l'Unicef, qui participe 5 cet effort, est un témoin vivant des dégâts que subit  mon pays). C'est avec la même foi, Messieurs, et la même détermination que je  m'adresse tantôt aux soldats libanais, les conjurant, lorsqu'ils affrontent la  mort, de relever le défi et de lutter au prix des plus qrands sacrifices pour la  défense de l'honneur et de la liberté de leur patrie, tantôt aux élèves et étu-  diants pour la sauvegarde du niveau culturel de notre peuple. Deux témoignages de  la vie et de la mort, une mort pour la patrie et une vie pour la préservation d'une
594    identité. Entre ces deux témoignaqes, l'inlassable et anqoissante interrogation :  Pourquoi tant de sacrifices ? Pourquoi devons-nous en mourir ? Pourquoi cesarmes ?  Pourquoi cette qgnérosité en armes et en obus qui sement la destruction et la mort  et non une qénérosité en livres, en laboratoires et en éuuipements pour que notre  peuple soit un peuple de science, de wroqrès et d'avenir ?... Si les sommes déwen-  sées en armements par les étrangers en terre libanaise dans une guerre barbare qui  n'a jamais été querre civile, et pour assouvir des ambitions réqionales et interna-  tionales, avaient servi à l'enseignement et à la science, il n'y aurait plus aucun  enfant affamé ou illettré dans toutes nos régions ! I1 y a pourtant, il y a quand  même tous les jours au Liban des enfants qui volent des minutes de vie pour aller  à l'école entre l'explosion de deux obus, entre un combat et le suivant ... C'est  au num de ces mêmes enfants que je me dois de constituer une armée forte, capable  de leur assurer la survie, de les protéaer, d'éloigner de cette terre de religion,  de culture et de valeurs innombrables, l'acharnement des autresà tuerchez nous... !
16.10 En reconstruisant nos écoles ou en réédifiant notre armée, croyez bien,  Messieurs, que notre objectif reste le même : garantir notre paix, car nous nenous  armons que pour nous défendre et nous ne nous instruisons que pour mieuxnousouvrir  aux autres et vivre avec eux dans l'amitié. Notre unique objectifestl'affirmation  d'une patrie millénaire capable d'assurerà ses citoyens les moyens de la création et  les conditions permettant à leur immense potentiel d'éclater au grand jour, de se  concrétiser et de s'épanouir ... tout cela au service de la paix et de l'humanité  dans la lutte contre les barbaries atroces dont nos enfants sont quotidiennement  les témoins et les victimes.
16.11 iIlesdames, Messieurs, une ultime question se pose :qu'y pouvons-nousetpour-  quoi ? Ya réponse, je la puiserai dans des propos de Volney, remontant à plus de
200 ans, lequel, étonné de l'évolution économique et culturelle du peuple libanais,  en cherchait la cause en disant : "Comment comprendre un tel essor sur une si petite  superficie ? 9près une profonde réflexion, je ne vois d'autre exnlication à cela  que le rayonnement de la liberté aui éclate partout en ce pays."
16.12 Parce que mon pays est un pays de liberté et parce clue vous êtes les por-  teurs de la pensée universelle et du rayonnement culturel, je me dois dem'adresser  à vous en toute franchise :la culture n'est plus l'auanage d'une élite d'aristo-  crates, elle est une action permanente de libération et de justice. Qui donc plus  que vous-nêmes dans votre Orqanisation est capable aujourd'hui de placer, le plus  haut possible, l'étendard de la liberté et de la culture, de la sauvegarde des  droits de l'homme et de sa dignité ?
16.13 Je tiens à souligner que le peuple libanais malgré l'horreur et les atro-  cités de la guerre qui le frappe, malgré les affres de sa vie quotidienne, est un  peuple qui lutte dans un défi contre la mort. Son arme unique est son élan vitalet  sa capacité de don. Ces dernières années, par la faute d'une presse souvent malveil-  lante ou mal informée, la réputation de mon peuple a été défigurée. Si on nous a  fait supporter la responsabilité des crimes commis par d'autres sur notre propre  terre, je dois vous dire que rien, malgré tout, n'a pu mettre un terme à la créati-  vité des Libanais qui ont continué, bon gré mal gré, à publier des milliers d'ou-  vrages, à écrire dans des dizaines de domaines ...
16.14 "Le mot progrès n'aura aucun sens aussi lonqtemps qu'il y aura des enfants  malheureux" affirmait Einstein. Que dire de nos enfants égorgés, massacrés, pour-  chassés d'un lieu à un autre, réfugiés dans des taudis, massés par milliers dans  des abris de fortune ?
16.15 Mesdames, Messieurs, Albert Schweitzer disait en 1952 devant la Commission  pour le prix Nobel de la paix : "La plus grave violation des droits de l'homme à  travers l'histoire est de priver un peuple de ses droits sur sa terre et de le  forcer à se réfugier sur une autre". Nous avons opté, mes amis, pour notre main-  tien sur notre terre. Nous y demeurerons et nul ne pourra nous en déloger, nul ne  pourra y demeurer, s'il ne la considère comme une terre d'amour, de liberté et de  paix ... Une terre de rencontre entre l'Orient et l'Occident, de rencontres reli-  gieuses et ethniques, une terre d'asile pour tous les terrorisés, les malheureux ...  Une terre creuset de civilisations et surtout, et d'abord, une terre attachée à ce  que la voix des hommes libres retentisse à travers le monde !
16.16 Nous sommes à l'origine de l'alphabet et de sa diffusion, 2 l'origine des  premières cités de pierres et de leur essor... Nous avons toujours répondu présents  lors de la création de toutes les orqanisations internationales ; nous avons parti-  cipé activement à l'élaboration de la Déclaration universelle d.es droits de l'homme ...  Quant à vous, vous avez pris l'initiative - je vous en suis reconnaissant - de cé-  lébrer le centenaire de la naissance de notre qrand poète et penseur Gibran Khalil  Gibran, ce même Gibran, auteur du "Prophète", qui, dépassant sa nationalité liba-  naise, se fit citoyen du monde entier, symbole par excellence d'une civilisation de  portée universelle, cet homme à la pensée Drofonde qui a dit :
595    "TU es mon frère et je t'aime  Prosterné dans ta mosquée  Agenouillé dans ton temple  Priant dans ton église  Toi et moi somnes fils d'une même religion, celle de l'esprit !"
16.17 Voilà le vrai Liban, Messieurs, le Liban de l'amour, de la foi et de l'es-  prit. Voilà aussi pourquoi le Liban ne saurait disparaître, ni perdre le rôle  unique que lui seul peut assumer dans le monde !
16.18 Le plus grave, ce n'est pas de laisser mourir ou détruire un petit pays,  de superficie modeste, OU vit un petit peuple. La honte de l'humanité serait  d'avoir laissé s'anéantir, par son indifférence, la mission de paix et de dia-  logue de ce peuple.
16.19 Elites de la connaissance ! Entre vos mains, des pages vierges comme  l'innocence des enfants attendent un témoignage. En toute âme et conscience, rem-  plissez-les ! Dites le drame libanais. Témoignez de ce qui peut honorer l'homme et  contenter le divin ! En vos esnrits et vos coeurs, il existe un potentiel qigan-  tesque qui doit s'unir pour vaincre le désespoir et l'indifférence, pour affronter  l'ignorance et la mauvaise foi, afin de construire un mondede sérénité, de liberté  et de justice. Telle est votre noble mission. Vous êtes les qarants et les premiers  responsables de tout ce qui sert l'homme et la civilisation !
16.20 C'est au nom de tout cela que le Liban souhaite à vos travaux une brillante  réussite. I1 ne saurait vous céder la parole sans reprendre des mots de notre Pré-  sident de la République libanaise : "Donnez-nous la paix ... la paix. Rien que la  paix. " Je vous remercie.
(17.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  his kind congratulations.
(17.2) Thank you. The meeting is now adjourned.  I thank the head of the Lebanese delegation. .I would also like to thank him for  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 heures.  Se levanta la sesión a las 13 h.