Seventeenth plenary meeting
4 November 1983 at 3.35 p.m.  President: Mr AFZAL (Pakistan)  Later: Mr TELL (Jordan)  Later: Ms SKARD (Norway)  Dix-septième séance plénière
4 novembre 1983, 2 15 h.35  Président : M. AFZAL (Pakistan)  puis : M. TELL (Jordanie)  puis : Mme SKARD (Norvège)  Decimoséptima sesión plenaria
873    GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)/DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)/DEBATE DE  POLITICA GENERAL (continuacion)/OBCYXnEHME BOIIPOCOB ORPjE$? IIOJIMTMKB /npononxeHae/
1. The PRESIDENT:  I call on the first speaker for this afternoon, H.E. Mr E.R. Ndomahina, Minister  of Education, head of the delegation of Sierra Leone.
2.1 Mr NDOMAHINA (Sierra Leone) :  guished delegates, I bring you greetings from our President, H.E. Dr Siaka Stevens,  and from the Government and people of Sierra Leone. My first duty - a very pleasur-  able one indeed - is to congratulate Mr Tell on his well-deserved election to such  high office. My delegation and I are fully convinced that with his eminent back-  ground, scholarly achievements and experience, he will steer the affairs of this  august assembly with skill, equanimity, fairness and dignity and that through his  wise guidance this twenty-second session of the General Conference of our Organiza-  tion will easily reach consensus and constructive decisions.
2.2 It is my pleasure also, Mr President, to thank the outgoing President,  Mr Ivo Margan, for his contribution to the work of Unesco, for the wisdom and good  judgement which he brought to bear on our deliberations and on Unesco's operations  in general, all of which has contributed in no small measure to the progress  achieved to date.  Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the seventeenth plenary meeting, and  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Excellencies, distin-
2.3 Our erudite and able Director-General also deserves our heartfelt gratitude;  my delegation joins others whose leaders have spoken in this plenary session so  far and who have with justification commended the Director-General on his know-how,  devotion and energy. His sterling qualities and the support of the Secretariat,  have enabled him to weather the storms and ensure that Unesco moves forward in  desirable directions.
2.4 Mr President, we in Sierra Leone realize that we owe a huge debt to Unesco.  There are urgent tasks that we wish to accomplish, to speed up development in the  country, to make more adequate provision for our people and to bring Sierra  Leoneans into the mainstream of progress. We acknowledge that the challenges are  many and that they must be met with boldness and firm commitment. We know also  that the constraints are many, and that at the moment we are considerably short  of human and material resources.
2.5 At the same time, however, we are encouraged by the realization that  Sierra Leone is indeed blessed with natural resources and that the potential for  meaningful development exists. We are ourselves anxious to exploit these resources  and to transform the potential into reality, but to do this we need to mobilize  the population, to help every Sierra Leonean to realize the need for sustained  effort, and for each person to use his ability and energy in the interest of the  country's development, while at the same time improving his or her own lifestyle  and family well-being. We appreciate the fact that the rural areas in Sierra Leone  are crying out for urgent development; in these same areas, however, latent  resources remain to be tapped - including the rich repositories of our national  culture. Although Sierra Leone is a small country, we are faced with the problems  of communication, and of course it is important for government to establish and  maintain regular links with all sectors and sections of the country.
2.6 Against this background, Mr President, it is no exaggeration to state that  we look up to Unesco for many reasons. The Organization offers us much hope,  although we realize that it has many problems of its own. I have spoken earlier  of the substantial resources in our country, indicating however that there is a  lot still to do to exploit these resources for the benefit of all. This is why  we are fighting the scourges of underdevelopment, ignorance, illiteracy, disease  and poverty with all the strength at our command. At the same time, we are in-  creasingly striving to be self-reliant; but of course we live in a world where we  cannot ignore the reality of interdependence. Bilateral and multilateral support  for all national efforts are essential to speed up development. For Sierra Leone,  therefore, Unesco's fields of competence - education and training, science, culture  and communication - are all most relevant.
2.1 Mr President, we are proud to have the opportunity to participate in such  a Conference as this, and to share our views and problems with other delegations  and the Unesco Secretariat itself. But while delegations come and go, decisions  are made and resolutions taken, the responsibility for implementation long after
814    we have returned to our respective countries lies with the Director-General and  his staff. In these days of constraints and uncertainties, this is a heavy res-  ponsibility indeed. For this reason, we feel that the continuing emphasis on de-  centralization is correct; there is much to be gained from this approach -  relieving Headquarters of some responsibilities while bringing the Organization  more closely to the Member States and the citizens whom it is Unesco's mission to  serve. Unesco is also more likely to appear as a meaningful reality to those who  realize that it is not a mere bureaucratic entity, somewhat remote and even  indifferent.
2.8 We have read the documentation for this Conference with interest, and we  are able very readily to associate ourselves with many of the points made by the  Director-General in his Introduction to the Draft Programme and Budget for
1984-1985. It is significant that the Director-General has mentioned, and I  quote, that 'The purpose of all the activities proposed in this document is the  same, namely to allow Unesco to play its part in solving world problems'. While  we in Sierra Leone have to address ourselves to the challenges facing our country's  development to which I have already referred, we believe that as a nation our  destiny lies with the rest of the world and that our concerns should not therefore  be limited to problems within our own borders. Tt is for this reason that, under  the astute and able leadership of our respected Head of State, SierralLeone has  been trying to play its part in matters affecting peace and prosperity not only in  Africa but throughout the world. Our concern for peace and stability is born out  of the realization that, notwithstanding successes at national and international  levels to promote education, science, communication and culture, all of these  successes will have relatively little impact if confrontation, wars and unending  disputes continue to plague our planet.
2.9 The proposals which the Director-General has put forward concerning world  problems should be followed up with vigour and meaningful support: we would all expect  that the studies contemplated should ultimately produce worthwhile action and not  be undertaken merely as an intellectual exercise. We ourselves are very much con-  cerned that the struggle against racism, prejudice, intolerance and apartheid  should be pursued. We hope that with amore effective dissemination of information,  Unesco itself will be able to play a more dynamic part in promoting mutual respect  and understanding. We think that greater attention should be given to activities  which will enable our children and students to learn very early in life about  other peoples, other countries and other cultures. All our efforts should aim at  reducing intolerance and bias and improving the content of books and teaching  materials, so that they reflect the fact that every person has rights, and that  despite differences in language, culture, natural resources, endowments, etc., we  are all to live in peace and brotherhood and contribute to the world heritage in  the best sense of the word. We hope that Unesco will be enabled to make a greater  impact on solving the burning questions relating to human rights, peace and inter-  national understanding. My delegation considers that Major Programmes XII and XIII,  as described in the Introduction, should be given every support. It is time,  Mr President, distinguished delegates. for us to stop paying lip service to ideals  and to join forces in taking vigorous action to eliminate prejudice and injustice.
2.10 We have noted that Major Programe VTII focuses on principles, methods and  strategies of action for development, and were particularly gratified to learn  that the least developed countries - which now include Sierra Leone - will be given  special attention in the practical application of development studies and also  that training will be accorded top priority.
2.11 In view of the serious financial difficulties now facing Sierra Leone, my  delegation is very interested in the Director-General's comments on pluridiscipli-  nary missions to identify and prepare projects. It also hopes that the involvement  of Unesco with financing institutions inside or outside the United Nations system  will yield good dividends. In this connection, I wish to mention that we in  Sierra Leone have already had the pleasure and privilege of hosting a multi-agency  mission in March this year on the initiative of the Secretary-General of the  United Nations. The mission identified a number of basic problems and made some  proposals. We are eagerly looking forward to the implementation of the proposed  projects, all of which should prove very helpful for manpower and economic develop-  ment in Sierra Leone.
2.12 Through the efforts of the Director-General and his staff, Sierra Leone  has benefited from advice and assistance in the science and technology fields. We  are looking forward to continued help in these areas, and are therefore encouraged  to note that mention is made in the Introduction to document 22 C/5 of proposed  efforts in the field of science and technology and extension work to support na-  tional activities. We ourselves believe that much more has to be done to promote  an awareness of the potential offered by science and technology if indeed we are  to exploit our resources; we are confident that there is much to be gained from  the continued emphasis which Unesco lays on this aspect of tts work.
2.13 Mr President, I have already referred to the problems which Sierra Leone  now experiences in the field of communication. We note that the Director-General  is himself very much aware of the serious imbalances and inequalities existing  between various countries and regions. We hope that Unesco will work towards  fostering better understanding, and that it may be possible, through the communi-  cation sector, to cater for better linkages, both between and within countries.  The problem of resources is again very crucial and it is disheartening indeed that  because of difficulties in obtaining newsprint - a matter which is mentioned in  paragraph 48 of the Introduction to document 22 C/5 - the press is not able to  function as we all would like it to, especially in developing countries. We cannot  agree more that this is indeed a major obstacle to communication; we hope that it  is one that Unesco, with the active support of Member States, will be able to  overcome.
2.14 In Sierra Leone, a great deal of discussion is also taking place at pre-  sent on the development of books and reading. Tn our efforts to eradicate illiter-  acy aswellas in formal education we are now trying to revise curricula at all  levels. We attach much importance to book development and the promotion of reading,  and look forward to participating actively in the work plan. We also hope that the  support which we have received so far from Unesco will be further strengthened.
2.15 One last point that I should mention concerns the status of women. We have  read the sections dealing with this topic in document 22 C/5 with a great deal of  interest, and observed that there are many aspects of the work proposed for 1984-
1985 which appear to stress both improvement of the status of women and steps to  ensure that they are given the opportunity to make meaningful contributions to  society. I am pleased to inform the members of this distinguished audience that  women have indeed been given, and are continuing to enjoy many opportunities of  contributing meaningfully to national development in Cierra Leone. At the same  time, our girls and young women are facing problems relating to education and  training, professional qualification and access to jobs that are traditionally  male-dominated, particularly in the technical fields. There are social problems,  too, in rural and urban areas alike. Por these reasons, my delegation welcomes  the emphasis which Unesco will be placing on these issues. For our part, we would  like to pledge our support in helping to carrying out the programme to the fullest  extent possible.
2.16 On behalf of the Government and delegation of Sierra Leone, I wish to close  my address by reiterating our sincere appreciation of the work which the Director-  General and the entire Secretariat have been doing. We are encouraged to see that,  as we grapple with our many internal problems, we have international organizations  such as Unesco to turn to, and indeed that many friendly countries which have been  helping us bilaterally in our efforts to develop more rapidly. We hope that this  session will be a truly remarkable milestone in the history of the Organization.  Thank you, Mr President.
3. The PRESIDENT:  H.E. Mr H.L. Estramoadouro, Under-Secretary for Education and Culture, head of the  delegation of Uruguay.  I thank the head of the Sierra Leonean delegation and 1 give the floor to
(4.1) Mr LOPEZ ESTREMADOURO (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish) :  men, the delegation of Uruguay wishes to express its satisfaction at the election of  Mr Tell as President of the twenty-second session of the General Conference, an election  approved by consensus in recognition of his personal qualities and the importance of his  country. On behalf of Uruguay, I greet the French Government and people with whom we are  united by long established links of friendship and culture. I also extend our greetings  to the nations represented here with which we shall be discussing the problems of educa-  tion, science, culture and communication in the different contexts of the world today.
(4.2) With specific reference to the topics proposed in the agenda for debate at this  plenary meeting, and especially item 13, 'Unesco's contribution to the attainment of the  objectives of the new international economic order', we wish to make the following points.  In the light of the resolutions approved by the United Nations General Assembly and the  Unesco General Conference at its eighteenth, nineteenth, twentieth and twenty-first ses-  sions, we should like to express our satisfaction.with and support for document 22 C/13 in  which the Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'BOW, submits this theme to the twenty-second  session of the General Conference. We are therefore placing great hopes in the activities  to be undertaken under Major Programmes I, 'Reflection on world problqms and future-oriented  studies' and VIII, 'Principles, methods and strategies of action for development'; we feel  sure that the establishment of a network of analysis and research, linked with centres,  institutes and eminent individuals in the various regions of the world, with full respect  for adequate geographical distribution, will provide the technical framework required, as  is set out in Major Programme I, and that the reflection and research to be Undertaken  under Major Programme VI11 will certainly contribute to renewing economic theory in the  light of current world conditions and serve as an appropriate conceptual framework for  Unesco's action.
(4.3) However, while recognizing the value of the Organization as a laboratory of ideas  and an observatory of world conditions, we must not overlook the harsh facts confronting  us at the moment. In fact, we all share responsibility for the considerations, recommen-  dations and invitations formulated by the General Conference at its twenty-first session  in Belgrade in 1980, as they are set out in resolution 9.1, with reference to a new inter-  national economic order, but, three years after the event, what is the prevailing world  situation? What have the responses of governments been?
(4.4) The unanimous view is that the world situation has deteriorated alarmingly and our  assessment of the position today can give no grounds for optimism. The developing coun-  tries in general and the region to which my country belongs in particular, Latin America  and the Caribbean, have been hit by the worst economic crisis experienced since the great  depression of the 1930s. If we turn to the annual report on economic and social progress  in Latin America issued by the Inter-American Development Bank, we see that the gross  domestic product of the region decreased, for the first time since the Second World War,  by 1.2 per cent in 1982 and the gross domestic product per capita decreased still further,  by 3 per cent in 1982 on average. Unemployment has risen to levels never dreamed of, for  there are now 36 million unemployed out of an economically active population of 120 million,  that is to say an unemployment rate of 30 per cent on average. The region's external debt  has grown to alarming proportions and the international financial system has tightened its  conditions regarding repayment periods and interest rates compared with those of previous  decades; this has raised serious problems in the region in regard to amortization of loans  for capital expenditure and interest payments, some countries being practically on the  verge of suspending payments. As a corollary, the whole production system has been  affected, for high interest rates have led to an excessively high cost of credit and  encouraged increased investment in the financial market, a more profitable and less risky  venture than investment in the production system.
(4.5) Following the first oil shock in 1973-1974, the non-oil-producing countries of  Latin America saw a very rapid increase in their balance-of-payment deficits which obliged  them to increase their external indebtedness. If we add to this the now chronic deteriora-  tion in prices and in the trading relationship between their exported raw materials and  imported manufactured products as well as the fact, unprecedented during the last forty  years, of the decrease in the region's international reserves of nearly 14,000 million  dollars, we realize how extremely difficult the overall economic situation in Latin America  is. To round off this alarming situation, there is the incongruous fact that, while 'open-  door' economic models based on free trade are being introduced in the region, the major  industrialized nations, which are the logical importers of the majority of Latin American  exports are applying protectionist policies and raising quota barriers in regard to the  Mr President of the General Conference, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentle-
879    products they purchase in our region, especially in the agricultural and meat marketing  sectors. This situation has led the President of the Inter-American Development Bank,  Mr Antonio Ortiz Mena, to say that 'it is inconsistent to require Latin American countries  with balance-of-payment problems to take corrective measures while at the same time refus-  ing them access for their exports in the industrialized countries'.
(4.6) How much pressure can it be expected that the peoples of Latin America and the  Caribbean will stand in order to cope with the effects of the recession? How much further  can the poorest people be obliged to reduce their already very low standards of living?  How far can the political systems of our countries be stretched to cope with conditions  that are steadily worsening? Unfortunately, we do not know the replies to these questions  but it is our duty to inform the industrialized countries, of whose internal problems we  are aware, that as the developing countries grow poorer they will inevitably lose their  purchasing power and eventually their capacity as customers for the manufactured products  which these same highly industrialized countries are vitally interested in selling.
(4.7) For all these reasons, we are firmly convinced that within its field of competence,  Unesco's contribution in the seeking of solutions remains of the utmost relevance. Admit-  tedly, in so far as this context is concerned, the rules of the international game fall  outside the specific sphere of competence of the Organization, but today more than ever  before we are enlightened enough to understand the great challenge confronting us in alert-  ing world public opinion and governments to the greatest possible extent.
(4.8) The Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989, and especially its Major Programes I and VIII,  will therefore make it possible to determine if Unesco, in so far as its specific field of  competence is concerned, can make an appropriate contribution to solving these problems.  All Member States should be fully aware of this great responsibility, for if the Organiza-  tion emerges triumphantly from this challenge, it will gain even more credibility and pres-  tige and divest itself of that aura of empty and useless rhetoric with which it has often  and unjustly been reproached.
(4.9) Mr President, having regard to Article I of the Constitution of Unesco where it is  stated that the purpose of the Organization is to contribute to peace and security by pro-  moting collaboration among the nations through education, science and culture in order to  further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for human rights and funda-  mental freedoms, we wish to express the following views with respect to the other topics  which are to be examined in the plenary meetings.
(4.10) Our country notes with appreciation and offers its full support to all the activi-  ties undertaken by Unesco to contribute to peace, to the promotion of human rights and to  the elimination of colonialism and racism as well as in generating a climate of public  opinion conducive to the halting of the arms race and the transition to disarmament. We  know that all these themes are a constant concern of the Organization, as indeed is dem-  onstrated by resolutions 12.1, adopted at the nineteenth session of the General Conference,
10.1, adopted at the twentieth session and 10.1, 10.2 and 11.1, adopted at the twenty-first  sessicn, all of which deal with these problems. As we all know, the United Nations General  Assembly has declared 1986 International Year of Peace, while the General Conference of  Unesco, at its eighteenth session in Paris in 1974, adopted the important Recommendation  concerning Education for International Understanding, Co-operation and Peace and Education  Relating to Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. We observe, then, with satisfaction  that the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985, within the conceptual framework of the  second Medium-Term Plan approved at the fourth extraordinary session of the General Confer-  ence in 1982, includes studies and research to stimulate thinking on the factors which con-  tribute to peace as well as to the promotion of human rights, the elimination of colonialism  and racism and the halting of the arms race. Similarly, it seeks to give greater attention  to education at all. levels and in the programmes designed to launch these studies.
(4.11) It is regrettable that however much the Organization endeavours to develop a strong  body of world opinion that will uphold such worthy and noble aims, we are faced with the  fact of increasing areas of armed conflict and tension throughout the world and an arms  race embarked upon by the superpowers for reasons of national security or hegemony, which  diverts considerable financial, human and technological resources from other more altruis-  tic and humane purposes such as the struggle against hunger, poverty, illiteracy and  disease.
(4.12) Must we fatalistically accept as an inherent fact of human nature that power and  all it stands for is the only valid and realistic bargaining position and, following on  from this philosophy, must we accept the arms race as the only way to achieve the hegemony  which military supremacy is presumed to give one superpower over others? We are reluctant  to accept so harsh and cruel an argument but in spite of our grave concern we are left with  few illusions since it appears that events today and the continual sequence of wars through-  out the history of mankind corroborate this philosophy so lacking in humanity.
(4.13) With so gloomy an outlook for the future, it is an inescapable duty for Unesco, as  a world organization providing guidance in matters of the intellect, education, science  and culture, to redouble its efforts to prevent the spread of this philosophy - which is  such a negation of the great human values - and to ensure that the concepts of co-operation,  solidarity and international understanding are given the respect due to them, in order to  strengthen peace, a priceless asset which is only fully appreciated when it is lost.
(4.14) For these reasons we support the inclusion in the Draft Programme and Budget for
1384-1985 of Major Programes XII, 'The Elimination of Prejudice, Intolerance, Racism and  Apartheid' and XIII, 'Peace, International Understanding, Human Rights and the Rights of  Peoples' and, more especially, the activities proposed as Unesco's contribution to Inter-  national Year of Peace, such as studies on the foundations of peace, the factors contribut-  ing to peace and the interpretation of the causes and consequences of conflicts, develop-  ment of the study of public international law and the analysis of international relations,  and the vitally important task of generating and developing a climate of world opinion  favourable to peace, it being understood that the proliferation of pacifist movements to
880    which these activities will naturally give rise are conducted with due impartiality and are 17  not used as a front for movements serving other purposes.
(4.15) We repeat with deep conviction that the world expects from Unesco the answer which  it alone can give to the problems which are its specific concern. Let us undertake with  enthusiasm and confidence the noble task of restoring dignity to the existence of man and  the world. The mere fact of our being together here holds out great promise. Gathered  together in pursuit of a lofty ideal and without distinction of race, religion, culture  or political or economic system, let us hope that the conclusions and recommendations to  emerge from this General Conference will be the beacon which will dissipate the shadows  that loom large over mankind at the present time. These are my delegation's most fervent  wishes. Thank you.
5. The PRESIDENT :  H.E. Mrs Dorothy Njeuma, Deputy Minister of Education, head of the delegation of  the United Republic of Cameroon.
6.1 Mrs NJEUMA (United Republic of Cameroon):  Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of  the delegation of the United Republic of Cameroon which I have the honour and the  privilege of heading, allow me to join in extending to Mr Tell our very sincere  congratulations on his brilliant election to the Presidency of the General  Conference, and to wish him every success in his onerous and delicate task. His  wide experience in other fields, as well as his acquaintance with Unesco's goils  and methods of work, will surely be instrumental in helping us to arrive at a  general consensus, through frank and constructive discussion, on the paths that  international co-operation should adopt during the next two years in the fields of  education, science, culture and communication, so that the world community may  continue to make progress in its quest to promote respect for human rights and  the rights of peoples, factors which are fundamental to the peace and security of  all nations.  I thank the head of the delegation of Uruguay, and I call on
6.2 The Cameroonian delegation would also like to express its appreciation as  well as its very warm and sincere felicitations to the Director-General for the  remarkable contribution which he has made to Unesco. His personal authority and  integrity, coupled with his untiring enthusiasm and bold sense of initiative, have  given great impetus to the promotion of the ideals of the Organization.
6.3 Distinguished delgates, ladies and gentlemen, the Draft Programme and  Budget for 1984-1985 submitted for our study has the total support of my delega-  tion. It has been drawn up in perfect conformity - not only in its conception but  also in its presentation - with the relevant resolutions adopted by the General  Conference at its fourth extraordinary session last year: to a very large extent,  it takes into account the observations made at that session by Member States as  well as international non-governmental organizations. In addition, it gives con-  sideration to recommendations made at recent international conferences dealing  with subjects relating to the areas of competence of our Organization.
6.4 This draft programme and budget marks a new stage in the life of Unesco.  Its internal cohesion is in no small measures due to the fact that the activities  proposed stem from a global view of the fundamental problems of the world in  matters relevant to the role assigned to the Organization. This is in keeping with  the spirit of the Constitution and conforms with the second Medium-Term Plan.
6.5 Through the activities proposed and with the specific goals and envisaged  results in mind, Unesco can effectively contribute to the exchange of ideas and  experiences in the fields of education, science, culture and communication. The  methods proposed seek to mobilize the scientific and intellectual potential of  Member States for the achievement of the main goals of the Organization.
6.6 Considering the increasing complexity of the problems which confront our  planet today, problems which bear on inequalities between societies and indivi-  duals, on human rights and the rights of peoples, on the environment, on science  arid technology and also on cultural identity, the present phase of our Organiza-  tion's existence calls for the setting up of methods of work and strategies which  should make it possible for Unesco to promote attitudes favourable to the main-  tenance of peace and international understanding. These methods and strategies  assume that a satisfactory equilibrium must be struck between the exigencies of  reflection and those of action.
6.7 If reflection, on the one hand, is born of the intellectual function of  Unesco - a function linked to the fundamental role assigned to the Constitution  to knowledge as a means of ensuring the progress of humanity in the areas of  competence of Unesco by tackling the great challenges of our time through the  mobilization of the scientific and intellectual competences of the international
881    community, action, on the other hand, should make it possible to find solutions  to the most pressing problems confronting young nations which expect much from  international co-operation.
6.8 It is therefore this equilibrium between reflection and action which we  see as the justification forthe restructuring and regrouping of Unesco's action  programmes around major priority themes. This avoids the compartmentalization  which existed hitherto in Unesco's programmes.
6.9 My delegation notes with satisfaction the interdisciplinary and inter-  sectoral approach to Unesco's new programmes, not only in their definition but  also in the plans to execute them. The interdisciplinary approach makes it poss-  ible to capitalize on the complementary nature of knowledge in many fields, and  calls for enhanced reciprocal interchange of scientific results and experiences.
6.10 The Cameroon delegation to this General Conference greatly appreciates  Major Programme VI11 which deals with principles, methods and strategies of  action for development and where the conceptual and operational aspects blend  harmoniously with the exigencies of interdisciplinarity and intersectoral  co-operation.
6.11 Mr President, the General Conference is meeting during a very difficult  period in international economic relations. It has become imperative to institute  a new international economic order which is fairer and more balanced and which  should make it possible for us not only to offset an economic recession whose  consequences are felt everywhere and which impede develo?ment especially in the  most deprived nations, but also to put a halt to economic dependence and to unequal  development.
6.12 A new philosophy of development should make it possible for Unesco to give  new life to international co-operation and the quest for progress, peace and new  hope for mankind. In this context, the concept of endogenous development should  allow Unesco to operate within an ethical framework in keeping with its calling.  Endogenous development requires the formulation, within each society, of strategies  which take into account all aspects of social, economic, political and cultural  life, and which call for enhanced co-operation between developing countries in  order to promote better subregional integration. We therefore welcome the orienta-  tions envisaged to promote more development of this kind and to place particular  emphasis on the development of local resources.
6.13 The efficiency of such action presupposes the creation within Member States  of conditions favourable to the mobilization of human resources, through the rein-  forcement of infrastructures and the improvement of opportunities for the training  of nationals and by making it possible for young people to be directly associated  with development activities and decision-making.
6.14 For this mobilization of human resources, education appears to me to be of  particular importance and is fundamental to endogenous development. It is through  education that science and technology can be mastered: it is education that makes  for the respect and preservation of the cultural identities of individuals and of  groups: it is through education that mutual understanding and international co-  operation are enhanced. Conceived in this manner, education must be for all; it  must allow for the participation of individuals and groups in the life of the  societies to which they belong as well as in the international community. Con-  sequently, we congratulate the Director-General on the strategy he proposes in the  draft programme and budget for the fight against illiteracy, whose rate is still  very high in our continent and which acts as an impediment to endogenous develop-  ment. In this connection, the importance of literacy programmes for women cannot  be over-emphasiz ed.
6.15 Mr President, Unesco's task is immense. In fact, the Constitution assigns  to our Organization the role of contributing to peace and security 'by promoting  collaboration among the nations through education, science and culture in order to  further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for the human rights  and fundamental freedoms which are affirmed for all the peoples of the world, with-  out distinction of race, sex, language or religion ...' But, Mr President, how can  we reconcile man's aspirations for peace with an ever-increasing arms race and a  threat of nuclear war that not only looms every day more deadly but which also di-  verts precious human and financial resources that are badly needed for development,  a threat of nuclear war which can only lead to the extermination of mankind?
6.16 This is why my government, faithful to its policy of peace, friendship and  non-aligned co-operation between nations, as recently reiterated by our Head of  State, H.E. President Paul Biya at the second extraordinary congress of theCameroon  National Union, continues to say no to the belligerent trend that our world is tak-  ing today: rather we affirm that the most rewarding and the most pressing war in
882    which we must all engage is the war against ignorance, disease, hunger and misery; 17  the war against social and economic injustice; the war against violence in all its  forms; and, finally the war against war.
6.17 Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I would like  to underscore the support of my delegation for Major Programme XIII, which deals  with the elimination of prejudice, intolerance, racism and apartheid. The oppres-  sion of peoples on the basis of essentially racial considerations not only contra-  dicts the ethical vocation of our Organization; it also constitutes a permanent  source of tensions and conflicts which threaten peace and understanding between  men. The Cameroon delegation notes with satisfaction the action proposed in this  Major Programme to combat racial discrimination, apartheid, prejudice and intoler-  ance within Unesco's spheres of competence. It highly appreciates the activities  designed to reinforce co-operation with liberation movements recognized by the  Organization of African Unity.
6.18 Indeed, this co-operation, which takes into account the Recommendations of  the fifth Regional Conference of National Commissions of African Member States of  Unesco, held in Yaounde' in May 1983, should unavoidably contribute to the triumph  of the peoples of Azania and Namibia-in their struggle for freedom and majority  rule.
6.19 Mr President, I cannot conclude my remarks without pointing out that it is  unethical for huge sums of money of the order mentioned by the Director-General  when he launched the general policy debate (i.e. some 700 billion United States  dollars in 1982 alone) to be spent on the arms race to prepare for man's annihila-  tion from the face of the globe, while we quibble here over a meagre sum of less  than 400 million dollars requested by Unesco to pursue, over the next two years, i  its struggle against ignorance, racism and apartheid and the promotion of inter-  national understanding and peace.
6.20 Most of us, heads of delegations ta this General Conference, have responsi-  bility for education in our various countries. We all know that education costs  much more than any other area of government activity, except of course in those  countries which have a deliberate policy of keeping ahead in the arms race. In  fact, most developing countries spend about one-fifth of their national budgets  on educationalone. Since Unesco is now made up mostly of developing countries,  and if we take account of its responsibilities in the fields of science, culture  and communication as well as education, it should come as no surprise to anyone  that the growth rate of its budget should be higher than that of other United  Nations bodies such as the Food and Agriculture Organization and the World Health  Organization.
6.21 In any case, considering the reductions that the Secretariat has already  proposed in Unesco's budget for 1984-1985, my delegation considers the revised  budget ceiling as reasonable. We shall vote for it and we encourage all other  delegations to do likewise.
6.22 Qn this note, Mr President, let me conclude, and express the hope that  the twenty-second session of the General Conference will be a brilliant success  and that our Organization will continue to make progress in the search for peace  and international understanding through respect for human rights and the rights  of peoples.
6.23 Thank you for your kind attention.  (Mr Tell took the Chair]
(7.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  remarks and for her kind compliments concerning me.
(7.2) I now give the floor to Mr Saleh Bawazeer, Permanent Delegate to Unesco and head  of the delegation of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.  I thank the head of the delegation of the United Republic of Cameroon for her
(8.1) Mr BAWAZEER (Saudi Arabia) (Translation from the Arabic) :  of Unesco, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by joining previous speakers in  congratulating Dr Said M. Tell on his election as President of the twenty-second session  of the General Conference, and to express my esteem and admiration for the patience, abil-  ity and wisdom with which he is carrying out the onerous duties of his office.
(8.2) Mr President, as we meet here at this twenty-second session of the General Confer-  ence, held at Unesco Headquarters, we are conscious of two conflicting feelings: tension  arising from the uneasy present, and hope for a brighter future. The tension that we are  currently experiencing is the logical outcome of the irrational race to produce and stock-  pile weapons of destruction, particularly nuclear weapons, the unproductive efforts to  alleviate the nuclear nightmare, and continuing resort to the judgement of arms. In our  region, the Arab world, war continues to range in the area of the Gulf, while Israel con-  tinues to occupy Arab territories, including Jerusalem. The Gulf conflict is a constant  source of sorrow because of its injurious effects: the drain of human and financial  resources and the destruction of what has been built up by the people for their future.  However, we hope that through the efforts of men of goodwill it may be possible to bring  about opportunities fGr the use of reason and logic to achieve a lasting peace based on  justice and mutual respect. In the occupied Arab territories the Israeli military authori-  ties continue to apply a policy of colonization and aggression against educational and cul-  tural institutions and the right of the Palestinian people to shape its identity and pre-  serve its heritage; the most recent act of aggression was the closing of the University  of Bethlehem, as is well known. The Palestinian problem is a permanent threat to the peace  and security of the region, and it can only be solved by the withdrawal of the forces of  aggression and the granting to the Palestinian people of their right to self-determination  and to a life of dignity on their own land. We hope that the international community in  general and the great powers in particular will work more effectively and responsibly to  reduce tension and military confrontation, eliminate injustice and enforce the rights of  individuals and peoples, and abolish racism, particularly in the form - so offensive to  human dignity - in which it is found in South Africa.
(8.3) Peace is a human right, and consequently we support the activities of the programme  for 1984-1985 that are aimed at strengthening peace and reinforcing human rights and the  rights of peoples. These are two aspects of a single issue, inasmuch as the rights of  peoples are incomplete in the absence of human rights, and individual human rights are  incomplete without recognition of the rights of peoples. Both stem from human dignity.  Both kinds of rights are a fundamental principle proclaimed by Islam, as is evident from  God's words in the Holy Koran, 'We have bestowed blessings on the children of Adam'; they  also constitute a moral law to which the international community is committed. We now live  in a world in which there is no place for isolation, for it is a world bound by a network  of extremely complex relations. Consequently, no State can remain isolated from the  adverse effects of contemporary political and economic crises. The attainment of peace  requires sincere co-operation among the parties concerned, international co-operation,  while the task of finding solutions to economic problems and their consequences, a general  readiness to make sacrifices on the part of the international community. Having regard to  the reciprocal impact that is the hallmark of international relations we can see very  plainly how important it is to achieve co-operation between industrialized and developing  countries, and between the developing countries themselves. The efforts that the develop-  ing countries are making to overcome their economic crises through development programmes  deserve more flexible and constructive international co-operation and responsiveness. The  Kingdom of Saudi Arabia will always support sincere efforts to achieve international co-  operation for development, including human development in the fields of culture, education,  science and communication, as well as economic development. The two aspects are inextric-  ably bound up together.
(8.4) In this atmosphere charged with fear and tension as a result of the deterioration  of the political and economic situation, this Conference is being held in order to seek  solutions to the crises of the contemporary world. Despite some differences in outlook,  we are confident that thanks to a spirit of goodwill and genuine readiness to assume  responsibility, the General Conference will endorse the efforts of the Secretariat of  Unesco, under the direction of its Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow. Those efforts  have been aided by the constructive participation by Member States, while admirable lines  of emphasis have been worked out and an invaluable intellectual contribution made by the  Executive Board; now they have emerged in material form in the Medium-Term Plan, together  with the programmes that will give effect to the general objectives and the values and  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr representative of the Director-General
885    principles that are enshrined in the Constitution of Unesco. The Fourth Extraordinary  General Conference that was held last year approved the Plan, finding in it appropriate  solutions to world problems. We now stand at an historic turning point in the process of  development, with all its manifold dimensions, which must include greater efforts in the  area of international co-operation and mutual understanding, and in regard to the bringing  together of the experience and the thought of peoples and cultures, regardless of their  differences. At this turning point in history we face the real testing of the strength of  our will to achieve a better future.
(8.5) As we said before, the draft programme and budget is constructed on the basis of  a deep and comprehensive analysis of world problems, an analysis which is marked by objec-  tivity and realism and is free from ideological bias. The programmes in it are inter-  related, and interconnected. The fourteen proposed programmes have been judiciously  selected, with due regard for flexibility in their execution. They afford opportunities  for renewal and innovation, they prepare the way for the linking of different approaches  and concepts, and they constitute a blueprint for international co-operation between indus-  trialized and developing countries, and also among developing countries. Accordingly, this  is an important document which emphasizes Unesco's ethical values and strengthens its prin-  ciples while preparing the ways and means of achieving endogenous development and improving  the atmosphere, charged as it is at the moment with fear, anxiety and tension.
(8.6) We welcome the proposed programmes because their aims are consistent with the sub-  stantial endeavours that the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is currently making in the fields of  economic and social development, as well as those of education, culture, science and com-  munication. We also welcome the many activities that are to be carried out in the Arab  world as a whole. We should like to take advantage of this opportunity to express, once  again, our thanks and esteem for the Director-General, his associates, and the members of  the Secretariat for the considerable effort they have succeeded in making in order to res-  pond to the aspirations of the international community and the hopes of the developing  nations. Peace and the blessing and mercy of God be upon you.
(9.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  congratulations.
(9.2) I now give the floor to Mr Ernesto Thalmann, Ambassador and Chairman of the Swiss  National Commission for Unesco and head of the delegation of Switzerland.  I thank the head of the Saudi Arabian delegation for his remarks and for his
10.1 M. THALMANN (Suisse) :  les délégués, c'est un honneur pour moi que de m'adresser aux délégués des 160  autres Etats membres que compte notre Organisation, et qui représentent des hori-  zons si divers. La Suisse se réjouit très sincèrement de l'élargissement de la  grande famille de l'Unesco, dans lequel elle voit un facteur d'enrichissementmutuel,  et souhaite la bienvenue aux nouveaux Etats membres.  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs
10.2 J'aimerais, Monsieur le Président, après vous avoir, au nom de mes auto-  rités, chaleureusement félicité de votre brillante élection, exprimer la certitude  que nous pourrons sous votre sage direction, et avec l'assistance du Secrétariat,  mener à bien les tâches pour lesquelles nous nous trouvons assemblés, grâce à un  dialogue aussi ouvert et dans une perspective aussi constructive que possible.
10.3 Parmi les 68 points que compte notre ordre du jour, l'examen du Projet de  programme et de budget pour 1984-1985 est sans doute le plus important, puisqu'il  s'agit de prendre les décisions qui détermineront les activités concrètes de notre  Organisation pendant le prochain exercice biennal.
10.4 Elles doivent bien sûr être soutenues par une réflexion approfondie des-  tinée & éclairer l'avenir dans lequel elles devront porter leurs fruits, Mais afin  d'ouvrir la voie à une action utile pour tous, cette réflexion doit s'effectuer  dans la plus grande rigueur. Une réflexion partisane ne peut que desservir l'inté-  rêt général. Nous avons toujours considéré que la politisation serait dangereuse  pour l'Unesco et nous estimons que tout doit être mis en oeuvre afin d'éviter que  l'Organisation ne soit livrée à ce péril.
10.5 Le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1984-1985 découle du Plan à moyen  terme adopté il y a un an à peine. Au nom de mon gouvernement j'avais, à l'époque,  exprimé de sérieuses réserves sur certaines parties de ce Plan. A la lumière du  Projet de programme, mes autorités n'ont pas changé d'avis. Les critiques que  j'avais à formuler conservent dans l'ensemble leur validité. Si le Projet de pro-  gramme nous paraît avoir été amélioré par rapport au Plan lui-même, il comporte
886    cependant des secteurs dans lesquels les décisions issues de la session extraordi-  naire de la Conférence générale ne nous semblent pas avoir été suffisamment prises  en compte. Nous pensons notamment au grand programme XIII, dont la structure et le  contenu nous paraissent actuellement s'écarter des équilibres difficilement acquis  auparavant. Par contre, nous sommes heureux de constater que la jeunesse ait trouvé  sa place au sein du Plan à moyen terme comme nous l'avions souhaité.
10.6 Monsieur le Président, mes autorités continuent à se préoccuper des orien-  tations que l'Unesco est susceptible de donner, à l'avenir, à son action en matière  de droits de l'homme et de paix. La Suisse, comme d'ailleurs d'autres Etats membres  de l'Unesco, a des vues précises sur la mission attribuée à l'Organisation dans ces  domaines, une de ses tâches les plus nobles étant d'oeuvrer en vue de l'édification  d'un monde meilleur, fondé avant tout sur le respect total des droits de l'homme.  L'universalité de la Déclaration des droits de l'homme, à laquelle tous les Etats  membres des Nations Unies et de l'Unesco souscrivent, représente une des seules va-  leurs qui lient tous ces Etats.
10.7 Trois approches risqueraient de mener ,à une relativisation de cette Décla-  ration. Une première approche consisterait à ne voir dans la Déclaration que le  fruit de la pensée individualiste européenne. Certes, elle reflète certains traits  empruntés à une conception philosophique occidentale, dans lesquels nous voyons  le don le plus noble que l'Europe ait fait à la communauté internationale. Mais  d'autres parties du monde ont également participé très activement à son élabora-  tion. Par ailleurs, il est vrai que d'autres cultures offrent des conceptions dif-  férentes de l'individu et de ses relations avec la communauté dans laquelle ilvit.  Une des excellentes publications de l'Unesco - "Le droit d'être un homme" - n'en  a pas moins démontré que certains principes fondamentaux régissant les droits de  l'homme se retrouvent dans toutes les cultures. Ce qui caractérise l'approche euro-  péenne, c'est avant tout la volonté de protéger l'individu contre les abus de pou-  voir de 1'Etat - née peut-être des expériences douloureuses et prolongées faites  justement par l'Europe dans ce domaine.
10.8 Une autre orientation consisterait à privilégier la notion de droits col-  lectifs. Nous ne nous opposons nullement à ce qu'ils soient explorés. Mais il con-  vient de veiller à ce que l'exploration de ces droits collectifs n'entrave pas le  respect des droits individuels déjà universellement reconnus.
10.9 Une troisième approche risquerait de relativiser les droits de l'homme  en les faisant dépendre des droits des peuples ou même en les subordonnant à ces  derniers. Certes, il existe des droits des peuples universellement reconnus - le  droit à l'autodétermination et le droit de disposer librement. de ses propres res-  sources naturelles - mais les droits des peuples sont trop facilement confondus  avec les droits des Etats. Le Plan à moyen terme se fondait sur la complémentarité  des droits de l'homme et des droits des peuples, qui a malheureusement disparu  dans le Projet de programme. Pour nous, les droits collectifs peuvent être complé-  mentaires des droits individuels, mais les premiers ne sauraient en aucun cas ex-  clure les seconds.
10.10 Cela dit, nous nous demandons si les démocraties de type occidental et les  gouvernements socialistes d'Europe orientale ne s'engagent pas dans un débat sans  issue à ce propos, car les mots identiques que nous employons recouvrent en fait  des réalités différentes. Cans ces conditions, un approfondissement de ce débat,  que l'on retrouve d'ailleurs également dans le domaine de la communication, est  vain, car nous entendons demeurer sur nos positions.
10.11 Monsieur le Président, je tiens à répéter ici une fois de plus qu'il n'y  a pas de paix possible sans respect des droits de l'homme. Comme l'a dit le philo-  sophe Karl Jaspers : "Sans vérité, pas de liberté : sans liberté, pas de paix ;  sans paix, pas de survie pour l'humanité."
10.12 Monsieur le Président, l'Unesco a une fonction majeure 2 remplir dans la  promotion d'un développement équilibré de tous les pays, en particulier des plus  démunis d'entre eux.
10.13 Bien des pays doivent actuellement faire face à une crise d'une rare am-  pleur : ils ont subi de plein fouet le contrecoup d'un ralentissement généralisé  de l'activité économique, souvent aggravé par des facteurs internes. Sans efforts  probablement douloureux d'ajustement des politiques et des structures, cette crise  promet d'être insumontable.
10.14 Etant convaincus que le développement est surtout, du fait de sa dimen-  sion culturelle, un phénomène endogène, nous croyons que ce sont les valeurs, les  connaissances et l'organisation de chaque société qui déterminent les finalités,  le contenu et la forme du développement, et la mesure dans laquelle l'économie est  mise au service de l'épanouissement de chaque membre de la société. C'est d'ail-  leurs un sujet dont notre commission nationale s'occupe tout particulièrement.
10.15 A notre avis, l'Organisation devrait s'attacher dans ce domaine à l'appro-  fondissement des connaissances relatives au processus de développement. I1 nous  paraîtrait par exemple utile de favoriser encore davantage les échanges d'expé-  riences entre pays en développement. Ils fourniraient un apport utile 2 la coopé-  ration entre ces pays eux-mêmes, et viendraient également stimuler les efforts  engagés dans les pays industrialisés pour construire des programmes de coopéra-  tion en vue du développement qui répondent véritablement aux besoins des pays  partenaires.
10.16 L'Unesco est, de façon plus générale, la seule organisation intergouverne-  mentale qui soit en mesure de donner aux activités éducatives, scientifiques et  culturelles des pays en développement les impulsions nouvelles susceptibles d'aider  à atténuer les disparités entre ces pays et ceux du Nord. Elle oeuvrera utilement  au développement de tous les pays en les aidant à repenser leurs programmes d'édu-  cation et de formation afin de les orienter vers les besoins réels des populations  ainsi qu'en contribuant 2 renforcer leur capacité propre en matière de recherche  scientifique et technique.
10.17 Les efforts 2 accomplir afin d'assurer une meilleure communication, tout  d'abord entre pays en développement et pays industrialisés, mais aussi entre les  pays en développement eux-mêmes ainsi qu'entre les divers pays industrialisés,  s'inscrivent à notre avis dans ce vaste dessein culturel.
10.18 En ce qui concerne le domaine de la communication] nous relevons avec  satisfaction que dans le grand programme III, l'accent est mis très nettement sur  l'amélioration de l'efficacité et de la qualité des médias dans les pays en déve-  loppement. A ce propos, je suis heureux de pouvoir annoncer que les autorités de  mon pays étudient les modalités d'une contribution importante au PIDC. Les expé-  riences acquises depuis Belgrade ont démontré que les échanges entre les profes-  sionnels des médias du Nord et ceux du Sud peuvent être particulièrement fructueux  pour les deux parties. L'Unesco devrait continuer 2 oeuvrer dans cette direction.
10.19 Nous sommes par contre plus que jamais persuadés que les vues des Etats  membres au sujet du contenu d'un nouvel ordre mondial de l'information et de la  communication divergent fondamentalement] comme l'a relevé très justement le chef  de la délégation du Danemark. Vous vous souviendrez que, déjà, la Commission  McBride n'avait pas été en mesure de proposer une stratégie globale cohérente  dans ce domaine. Les efforts entrepris depuis la parution du rapport de cette  Commission en vue de trouver un dénominateur commun ont débouché slir des résiil-  tats fragmentaires] voire sur une impasse. Ils ont visé, au moyen d'une sémantique  ambiguë, 2 refléter un consensus qui n'existe pas dans la réalité. Nous estimons  dès lors que les activités normatives de l'Unesco dans ce domaine ne devraient pas  être poursuivies.
10.20 Nous sommes également sceptiques à l'égard des études envisagées dans le  Projet de programme concernant un "droit 2 communiquer". Nous estimons en effet  que les aspects essentiels de ce droit sont contenus dans l'article 19 de la Décla-  ration universelle des droits de l'homme qui proclame le droit "de chercher, de  recevoir et de répandre, sans considérations de frontières] les informations et  les idées par quelque moyen d'expression que ce soit".
10.21 Si des délégations recherchant la confrontation insistaient pour que  soient adoptés des textes qui seraient en contradiction avec le principe de la  liberté de la presse auquel mon gouvernement est profondément attaché, ma délé-  gation s'y opposerait résolument.
10.22 Je voudrais maintenant faire quelques remarques au sujet du budget proposé,  sans aborder les aspects plus techniques de cette question sur lesquels ma délé-  gation reviendra lorsque nous procéderons à un examen détaillé du budget. Comme  d'autres Etats membres, la Suisse est persuadée que les organisations internatio-  nales ne sauraient ignorer les réalités économiques internationales et qu'il leur  sied de limiter leurs dépenses dans une période où tous les Etats se voient con-  traints de comprimer leurs budgets nationaux. Nous serions très étonnés que, seule  parmi toutes les institutions du système des Nations Unies, l'Unesco se dérobe  à la nécessité objective d'une plus grande rigueur budgétaire.
10.23 Dans notre plaidoyer pour la rigueur budgétaire] on ne doit lire aucune  volonté de réduire la coopération avec les pays en développement, bien au contraire.  Nous considérons en effet qu'une stabilisation des ressources financières pourrait  et devrait exercer une action stimulante sur la qualité du programme, et qu'une  concentration effective de ce dernier sur des activités rgalistes, prioritaires et  dans lesquelles l'Unesco joue un rôle irremplaçable, permettrait] sans entrainer  de perte de substance, d'alléger le budget. Des coupures pourraient notamment être  opérées dans les grands programmes I, VI11 et XIII. Dans le secteur du personnel,  d'importantes économies doivent également être effectuées.
10.24 Monsieur le Président, pour diverses raisons, la coopération multilatérale 17  traverse malheureusement une phase difficile. Nous en sommes pleinement conscients.  Mon gouvernement m'a chargé de formuler des interrogations, des réserves, voire  des critiques à propos du Projet de programme et de budget soumis à la Conférence  générale. Mon gouvernement se préoccupe en outre de la dégradation sensible de la  coopération intellectuelle internationale pour laquelle l'Organisation a été créée.  Nous estimons que la qualité de certains programmes est en baisse, et que leur  exécution laisse à désirer. Nous relevons les signes d'une détérioration du climat  de travail au sein du Secrétariat, ainsi que le révèle une enquête effectuée ré-  cemment auprès du personnel. Les relations entre l'Organisation et certains de ses  Etats membres sont empreintes d'une tension croissante, qui nous inquiète et se  traduit par un affaiblissement de l'audience de l'Unesco dans de nombreux milieux.
10.25 Monsieur le Président, mon pays regrette que l'évolution des relations  internationales, dont l'Unesco ne peut s'abstraire, ait momentanément éloigné  l'Organisation du rôle idéal que lui avaient assigné ses fondateurs et qui faisait  d'elle un lieu d'échanges privilégiés où l'on tentait de trouver un langagecommun.
10.26 Nous constatons cette évolution et expr'imons ce regret. Je puis néanmoins  vous assurer, Monsieur le Président, que mon pays est de ceux qui sont prêts à  rechercher les moyens propres à rassembler tous les Etats membres, par-delà leurs  différences politiques, économiques, sociales et idéologiques, autour de buts  communs, concrets et réalistes. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
(11.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  remarks, and I thank him in my own name for his kind words of congratulation.
(11.2) I should like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen and distinguished delegates, that  there are eighteen speakers for this evening's meeting who have not yet taken the floor. I  should be obliged if speakers would observe the time-limit, as even at that rate it will be  at least six hours before we have heard them all speak.
(11.3) I now give the floor to Mr Veeris, Minister of Education and head of the delegation  of the Netherlands Antilles.  I thank the head of the delegation of Switzerland on behalf of the meeting for his
12.1 Mr VEERIS (Netherlands Antilles) :  Antilles, to associate myself with the expressions of congratulation extended to  you on your election as President of this twenty-second session of the General  Conference. Under your able and skilful guidance we can look forward to a fruit-  ful outcome of our deliberations.  Mr President, permit me, on behalf of the delegation of the Netherlands
12.2 I would like also to express our warm appreciation to your distinguished  Director-General and his Secretariat for the excellent manner in which they have  translated the Second Medium-Term Plan, as approved last year by the General  Conference, into the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985. The documents and  background papers prepared to facilitate our deliberations bear eloquent proof of  their capacity for excellent work.
12.3 Mr President, the rights and obligations of Associate Members of Unesco  are laid down in Resolution 41.2 adopted by the General Conference at its sixth  session. In accordance with this resolution, Associate Members shall have the  right, inter alia, to participate without voting rights in the deliberations of  the General Conference and of its Commissions and Committees: and to participate  equally with members in matters pertaining to the conduct of business of meetings  of the Conference and such of its Committees, Commissions and other subsidiary  organs as the General Conference may, from time to time, indicate in accordance  with the Rules of Procedure of the Conference.
12.4 In exercising these rights, 1 wish to assure you Mr President and fellow  delegates, that my delegation will render its contribution, small though it may  be, to the successful achievement of the goals of this Conference.
12.5 Mr President, the worsening of the general economic situation, causing  severe global recession, has also affected the economy of my country. This economic  crisis, of which all developing countries are particularly easy victims, constitutes  a great danger for mankind because it is leading to severe restrictions of the  capacity of governments to improve the way of life of their people. We should be  aware that it affects in a negative way not only the economic, but also the cul-  tural, social educational and scientific aspects of development. We therefore look  towards Unesco with some hope as an Organization that is able to contribute to-  wards solving these problems by encouraging dialogue and co-operation between all  members of the international community, rich or poor, in order to make the neces-  sary changes and adjustments that would create better living conditions for every  human being in the world.
12.6 Unesco should be sensitive to the needs of all the nations and people whose  interests it serves, taking into account the existing peculiarities of different  regions and subregions. Mr President, my delegation is particularly pleased to see  that the efforts of the Director-General to decentralize the Organization's activi-  ties have led to a further strengthening of regional co-operation in the Latin  American and Caribbean Region, not only in areas within Unesco's competence but  far beyond. The Government of the Netherlands Antilles is of the opinion that the  subregional office in Jamaica, by virtue of its direct link with Unesco, indeed  facilitates a more co-ordinated approach to development within the Caribbean sub-  region. In this context, we also strongly support the great efforts made by Unesco  to promote and strengthen horizontal regional assistance in development through  networks for educational innovation and development; in our own case, CARNEID is  recognizing and mobilizing the highly qualified expertise present in the region.
12.7 Let me now comment on some of the major programmes in the proposed pro-  gramme and budget before us. In a few cases 1 shall indicate in passing how they  relate to developments in my country. In so doing, Mr President, I wish to point  out first that it is the view of my delegation that the new presentation of the  C/5 document under thirteen major programme headings will certainly benefit from  intersectorial and interdisciplinary contacts. We believe the draft programme  and budget to be generally satisfactory, and we are pleased that the Director-  General has succeeded in complying with the guidelines laid down by the General  Conference at its fourth extraordinary session last year when it approved the  Medium-Term Plan.
12.8 Our first consideration concerns Major Programme II, 'Education for all'.  Although in our country illiteracy is practically non-existent, the delegation of  the Netherlands Antilles takes this opportunity of voicing its full support for  the measures in this programme directed at combating illiteracy in the world. We  are prepared to assist in the organization of workshops for the training of liter-  acy personnel from competent national institutions. Within the framework of the  Major Project in the Field of Education for the Latin American and Caribbean  region, my delegation is recommending very strongly that funds be substantially  increased to enable Member States in the Caribbean to identify the parameters of  the illiteracy problem through studies, collection of statistics, training work-  shops and the exchange of information and expertise. The delegation of the  Netherlands Antilles highly welcomes the programme on the democratization of edu-  cation, and especiallyitssubprogramme on the study of the various aspects of the  subject. I wish to point out that my government, as a matter of public policy, is  promoting the active participation in education policy matters by such representa-  tive organizations as teacher's unions, associationsofparents andby school-boards.  We support the measures which Unesco is proposing to promote equality of educa-  tional opportunity for girls and women so as to eliminate the obstacles impeding  full exercise by women of their right to education, a right that in the Constitu-  tion of the Netherlands Antilles is guaranteed as one of the most fundamental  human rights.
12.9 We fully agree with the proposals that will contribute to the development  and strengthening of education and training programmes to meet the specific needs  of disabled persons, and of programmes designed to facilitate their integration and  full participation in the life of their societies. We therefore express our deep  concern at the low level of funding for programme support in the programme and  budget regarding special education, and consequently recommend that a review of  the level of funding from the regular programme for education of disabled children  be carried out, and that steps be taken to identify possible extra-budgetary  funding for the education of these children.
12.10 Still on the subject of education, the delegation of the Netherlands  Antilles wishes to refer to Major Programme IV, 'The formulation and application
890    of educational policies'. We consider the measures envisaged for the improvement  of educational planning, administration and management to be of great importance  to most, if not all, countries in the Caribbean subregion. Funds should be made  available to hold national and subregional seminars, to train senior staff and  educators in the techniques of educational planning and management. Considering  the multilingual nature of my country and of the whole subregion, together with  the ever-increasing cross-cultural and inter-country contact in both subregions  of the Latin American and Caribbean region, my delegation strongly supports  Unesco's endeavours to improve the teaching of foreign languages, especially  English, French and Spanish. We consequently request their involvement in any  action for the promotion of the teaching of languages at the subregional level.
12.11 To conclude with regard to the proposals in the field of education, my  delegation would call special attention to Major Programme V, 'Education, training  and society', and fully supports the proposals to promote national languages and  mother tongues in teaching and culture, as well as the actions proposed in  Subprogramme V.3.1. These measures are in agreement with the educational policy  of my government, according to which education has to accept and strengthen the  national languages and cultural identity and - before presenting any foreign  language and foreign culture to the children - must satisfy the social and econo-  mic needs of the people.
12.12 Mr President, a free press is a corner-stone of any democratic society.  The Constitution of the Netherlands Antilles guarantees freedom of the press as  one of the most fundamental rights and freedoms of mankind. Within this system,  government-controlled dissemination of information is unthinkable. Consequently,  in viewing Major Programme III, 'Communication in the service of man', my delega-  tion notes with satisfaction the approach of Unesco to contribute to the further  exploration of the concept of the 'right to communicate' and its relationship  with freedom of opinion, information and expression.
12.13 Mr President, my delegation warmly welcomes the constant attention which  Unesco is paying to the broadening of knowledge about the historical and contempo-  rary ingredients of cultural identities, and to the promotion and stimulation of  intercultural relations. The second programme of Major Programme XI, which deals  with this subject meets with the full approval of my delegation. In particular,  we wish to stress the importance of Unesco programmes aimed,at the promotion of  Caribbean languages. We fully support the programme of Unesco with regard to the  cultural interaction in Latin America and the Caribbean, and warmly welcome the  pilot study that will be conducted on inter-ethnic relations and migratory trends  in the Caribbean region, with a view to shedding light on the development of  Caribbean culture. But I would emphatically call for more action-oriented projects  that will stimulate cultural exchanges between the countries of that region.
12.14 Mr President, we all agree that in the present world there are still great  deficiencies with regard to the status of women. We would therefore like to express  our appreciation for the activities mentioned in Major Programme XIV. In this res-  pect, I wish to point out that in my country the government is taking every pos-  sible step to ensure that the needs and interests of women are taken into considera-  tion in all aspects of society, and that women enjoy equal opportunity with men. In  this context, my delegation wishes to mention the fact that recently my government  has abolished all provisions in the Regulations concerning the juridical position  of government officials that are discriminatory against women.
12.15 Before concluding Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to  thank heartily all representatives of member countries who, in their speeches or  in personal encounters, have so warmly welcomed the Netherlands Antilles as a new  Associate Member. Permit me to once more refer to our view that our particular  geographical setting and socio-cultural heritage place us in an extraordinary posi-  tion in the region. With English spoken in our three Windward Islands (one of  which is even half French-speaking): with Paiamento - our creole - spoken in  Curaçao, Aruba and Bonaire, near the coast of Venezuela; with Dutch still being  the official language, while the greater part of our population easily communi-  cates in English, Spanish and - albeit hesitantly - in French, we feel a special  challenge to be actively involved in efforts towards regional co-operation and  integration both within the Caribbean and between the Caribbean and the continent.  Therefore, Plr President, I feel compelled to say a few words in at least one of  our other regional languages.  (The speaker continued in Spanish)
(12.16) (Translation from the Spanish) :  members who have so spontaneously and warmly welcomed us to this Organization, but also to  express unequivocally the Netherlands Antilles' sincere desire to act as a catalyst in the  process of regional co-operation and integration, removing cultural barriers, particularly  language barriers, within our region. Let us cease to be mere pawns in the processes of  our fascinating history and assume the responsibility of building together - whether we  speak Spanish, French, English or Dutch - a stronger and more integrated region, a more  united hemisphere, a more humane world.  Mr President, I wish not only to express deep gratitude to the Spanish-speaking  (The speaker resumed in English)
12.17 In concluding, Mr President, I wish to call upon all participants of this  Conference to express their spirit of goodwill in order to realize the fundamental  objective of Unesco: improving the quality of life of mankind. Thank you.
(13.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  and I also thank him on my own behalf for his kind words of congratulation.
(13.2) I now give the floor to Mr Guillermo Putzeys Alvarez, Ambassador and Permanent  Delegate to Unesco and head of the delegation of Guatemala.  I thank the head of the delegation of the Netherlands Antilles for his remarks,
(14.1) Mr PUTZEYS ALVAREZ (Guatemala) (Translation from the Spanish) :  opportunity of expressing to you personally, Mr President, and on behalf of the Latin  America and Caribbean region, my support and congratulations on your election to the Presi-  dency of this General Conference. May I now congratulate you on behalf of the delegation  of Guatemala and wish you every success in the task entrusted to you. May I also take this  opportunity to welcome the new Member States which have joined the Unesco family and in  doing so have expanded the membership of our Organization.
(14.2) The General Conference has already embarked on a study and analysis of the draft  programme and budget for the coming years. It is a very substantial programme which cost  the Executive Board many long and arduous hours of work, reflection and discussion. For  the first time in a document which maps out the main lines of this Organization's activi-  ties in education, science, culture and communication an approach has been adopted that we  world unreservedly describe as well-conceived and inspiring. The reflection on world  problems with which the 22 C/5 document begins provides a responsible and necessary  approach, a comprehensive view of critical issues which gives meaning to Unesco's programme  of activities as a whole.  Mr President, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I have previously had the
(14.3) There has not often been any great degree of coherence between the activities under-  taken by the Organization in each of the fields of its competence. Indeed the various sec-  tors have tended to take a compartmentalized, one-sided view with emphasis on their own  specialized fields, and, although the content and merits of these are not in doubt it has  meant that approaches have been segregated and goals limited, and that there has been a  narrow outlook onto the diffuse reality of life as a whole, in all its variety and complex-  ity, in the various regions or countries. As the communicating vessels of this interrela-  tionship were sealed off from one another, programes in specific fields were often confined  to their immediate sphere and lost perspective and substance. For that reason it was essen-  tial to adopt a different attitude to the conception of Unesco's present programme, and it  is this frank, bold view of mankind in the world today which was presented by the Director-  General to the Executive Board, discussed and analysed in depth in plenary meetings of the  Board, and finally adopted as Chapter I of document 22 C/5.
(14.4) In addition to the fact that it gives details of the major problems of our time  and affirms Unesco's principles whereby peace and international solidarity are seen as its  raison d'être and ultimate goal, it takes advantage of an appropriate moment to make an  appeal, for it is a time when peace and solidarity are threatened in various parts of the  world. No forum is better suited than Unesco for making such an appeal, in the hope that  it will elicit a positive response.
(14.5) Mr President, in view of the fact that I have had the honour of being a member of  the Executive Board for the period of office that comes to an end with this General Con-  ference and have consequently participated fully in the discussions on document 22 C/5, I  shall take this opportunity to make some comments on certain vital aspects of the document  from the point of view of my country. This does not mean that we are neglecting or under-  estimating those to which I shall not refer. They are omitted only because of the limited  time we have for discussion and on account of certain priorities which have been set for my  country's development. I should however like it to be known that Guatemala believes that  in the sphere of true international co-operation, the contribution of the economically  powerful countries should mean a genuine possibility of carrying out programmes conducive  to the development of the most needy countries.
(14.6) For that reason I shall refer first to education. Nobody is unaware of the fact  that education is the way to build the future if this eminently social task is carried out  by all as their highest moral responsibility. Education is no longer merely a government  programme but has become a comprehensive, dynamic processwhich may well be the very reason  for the existence of a government. However, while it is the highest responsibility of the  State it also requires a totally committed and sustained resolve on the part of all sectors  of society, from the individual and the family to all public and private institutions. If  not, the educational process will be denied the priority which development requires and  will become an activity confined to teachers and the still small number of pupils who are  able to attend schools which as we well know are insufficient to meet demands in the devel-  oping countries, deprived as they are of the facilities that wealth confers.
(14.7) For many years my country has been faced by the distressing problem of illiteracy,  its alarmingly high rate being a source of major social and political concern. As it was  impossible to remedy the situation by expanding the school system and providing more  classes and teachers so as to cater for the school-age population, we have directed our  efforts towards strengthening alternative methods such as functional literacy training.  This means making learning and literacy part of a system of basic education which can pro-  vide at least the elements that will enable the vast majority of pupils to have access to  the educational benefits which the teaching-learning process implies. Adult education is  of great importance in this respect for it is these adults who have been deprived of the  benefits of education and for this and other reasons are employed in the least fulfilling  sectors of working life.
(14.8) In this effort we require the permanent co-operation of organizations which, like  Unesco, have stated their intention to work without respite to ensure that by the year
2000 the world will have emerged from the present grievous situation in which a thousand  million human beings are unable to read or write.
(14.9) Out-of-school or non-formal education, which has been developed as a programme  parallel to the formal system, is all-important in our view. Experiments in which Unesco  has taken part with the assistance of experts have demonstrated the huge scope of this  parallel system which, although a palliative, can yield very good results. The inclusion  of other components to strengthen the educational work of teachers, such as rural communi-  ties where some twenty-three local languages are spoken by half of our population - has  enabled community leaders known as 'bilingual promoters' to take part in the educational  process. They fulfil a devoted and enthusiastic role in this patriotic endeavour.
(14.10) Another factor of particular importance, for which greater co-operation is needed,  is the need to raise the standard of the existing school system, from pre-school education  to university level, so that the efforts to improve education will yield the desired  results and in order to avoid the high drop-out rates which are so damaging in any action  of this kind. Systematic, continual improvement of the quality of the education system  is one of the most deeply €elt needs in developing countries, which is why it deserves a  high degree of international co-operation and assistance by organizations like Unesco.
(14.11) The Guatemalan university as an institution is one of the oldest in Latin America.  Today's universities, the national autonomous University of San Carlos and the private  universities have a role to play as vital centres for our development. The State Univer-  sity, which has had autonomous status since the 1944 revolution, and the private univer-  sities which enjoy full academic freedom are thus regarded as training-grounds for a more  highly qualified body of people who will direct the development process along the most  appropriate paths.
(14.12) With regard to the universities' functions, we stress the importance of the part  which they in particular are called upon to play as centres of reflection, providing guide-  lines for solving the major problems afflicting society today, and not merely as institu-  tions for the training of insensitive technicians who will simply go on to some profes-  sional occupation - or, as often happens, emigrate to other countries - and shirk the  responsibility of working for the improvement of societies at grips with the harsh reali-  ties of the day and facing a future fraught with deprivation and shortage.
(14.13) We advocate action by Unesco that will give focus and definition to this leading  role of the university today, that will give meaning to the sciences and technologies with  which they are concerned and substance to humanistic studies so that they are not divorced  from the realism required for this global effort. In science and technology, we share the  view which calls for generous and morally responsible action on the part of the countries  which possess such valuable assets. We support any action to promote.the kind of tech-  nology transfer which does not lead to either subjection or domination, or to new forms of  power over countries which, because they are still developing and in a position of inequal-  ity, are often seen as targets where open or disguised domination can be consolidated or  vied for. We stress the need for science and technology to serve the cause of development  and that of happiness and equal rights for all human beings, wherever they may be. Further-  more, my delegation would like to emphasize how important it is to co-operate to the utmost  to ensure that activities are launched and promoted in the developing countries that will  turn to account those basic, even though limited, capacities which they possess so that they  may embark on the truly vast process ahead.
(14.14) We attach the utmost importance to culture. Guatemala was the cradle and the glory 17  of one of the most important pre-Hispanic civilizations in Central America, that of the  Mayas, recognized and prized as one of the most vigorous civilizations of the past. From  that civilization stemmed Guatemalan society, into which was incorporated the rich strain  of European culture, intermingling to form a single identity with its own distinct ways  and characteristics and its own dignity. This identity of the Guatemalan is reflected in  the many expressions of its culture, from the splendour of its ancient temples to the rich-  ness of its colonial monuments, from its visual arts, music and literature to the crafts  and creativity of its popular art. But over and above the tangible expressions of its  noble past, the cultural identity of the Guatemalan people continues today and will con-  tinue in the future to uphold its own specific characteristics, its pride in being part of  a priceless cultural reality with the dignity which this confers. This is why, Mr Presi-  dent and distinguished delegates, Guatemala has constantly proclaimed its recognition of  Unesco's action to safeguard, preserve and enhance the cultural heritage of mankind, and  has stressed the need for its programes in this field to be continually reinforced and  expanded.
(14.15) With regard to cultural identity and incidentally to the far-reaching analysis  made of this subject at various meetings, including MONDIACULT in Mexico City last year,  my delegation would like to stress the importance of giving consideration to indigenous  languages, which are a faithful reflection of their cultures. We believe that this action  undertaken by Unesco will be one of the effective steps in ensuring that the affirmation  of cultural identity and recognition of the equal dignity of cultures find expression in  practical activities which confirm those principles.
(14.16) Communication, as a new Unesco programme, is of particular importance to my coun-  try. The introduction of modern communication media into major areas of activity such  as those concerning education and culture, is regarded as a necessity. However, Guatemala  believes that where this sector is concerned, and as has been made increasingly clear in  Unesco, all programmes and activities must be carefully defined so that freedom of expres-  sion is not violated, threatened, distorted or restricted, for it is a right which must be  respected and defended as a natural corollary of the true democratic ideal.
(14.17) Among the programmes which are of concern to us are some which have deserved and  continue to deserve careful consideration. My delegation feels that Unesco has a moral  duty to concern itself with studies and research on prejudice, intolerance, racism and the  struggle against apartheid. In this connection, may I recall a recent statement by  Guatemala at the United Nations General Assembly: 'it is inconceivable that in the world  today measures of racial segregation continue to be applied which are deeply damaging to  human dignity. It is our hope that this absurd and unjust racial policy will be eliminated  once and for all'. We may add that inalienable rights are being violated in all the fields  of competence of Unesco as a result of such policies.
(14.18) With regard to human rights, a crucial question which is of particular and sincere  concern to the present government of my country, Guatemala asserts the need for our Organ-  ization to be alert and to continue to speak out convincingly in support of human dignity  in its activities aimed at affirming these rights. My delegation would like to express its  firm belief in the extremely encouraging part played by Unesco both in its programmes for  peace education and human rights teaching - an all-important task of our Organization -  and in its application of the provisions of 104 EX/Decision 3.3 which lays down conditions  and procedures for dealing with reports of violations of human rights in the Organization's  fields of competence and which has enabled many of these cases to be dealt with success-  fully, in a spirit guided by the search for humanitarian and conciliatory solutions. In  this respect a particularly important role is and has been played by the Director-General,  to whom, in my capacity as Chairman for four consecutive years of the Committee on Conven-  tions and Recommendations which deals with this subject, I should like to pay tribute, as  indeed to all the members of the Committee. There is no doubt that firm, discreet and  effective action in this field enables Unesco to do justice to its genuine concern for  human dignity and for ensuring protection against biased interests, some of which are  clearly prompted by political motives which take no account of the drama of human life and  man's hope for justice.
(14.19) Mr President, my delegation would like to conclude by expressing its hope and wish  that Unesco will increasingly see itself above all as the advocate of international peace  and solidarity. The conflicts convulsing the world are an extremely serious impediment to  the attainment of a dignified and better life for human kind. Guatemala, which has also  been a victim of bitter conflicts instigated by opposing foreign forces, believes that  Unesco, as an organization for culture, education and science, should make the moral  strength of its message felt so that peace can be achieved throughout the world and soli-  darity, born of a feeling of international brotherhood, can at last become a universal  language. Thank you, Mr President.
(15.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  him on my,own behalf for his kind words of congratulation.  I thank the head of the delegation of Guatemala for his remarks, and I also thank
(15.2) I now give the floor to H.E. Mr Mohamed Fredj Chadly, Minister of National Educa-  tion, Chairman of the Tunisian National Commission for Unesco and head of the delegation  of Tunisia.
(16.1) Mr CHADLY (Tunisia) :  Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin my remarks by offering,  on my own behalf and in the name of the Tunisian delegation, which I have the honour to  head, my heartfelt and sincere congratulations to you, Mr President, on the occasion of  your election to the office of President of this Conference. I am confident that those  qualities of wisdom, sense of measure and clear-sightedness which you possess will undoubt-  edly be a source of great help to us during the five weeks that our Conference will take  up. Indeed, the skill you have already shown in directing our proceedings is the best  possible indication that this Conference will be a successful one.
(16.2) I should also like to express my country's thanks and esteem to all the members  of the Executive Board, the Director-Generai and the members of the Unesco Secretariat as  well as the outgoinq President of the General Conference, for the efforts made by all of  them, each in his own area of competence and in accordance with his duly assigned responsi-  bilities, in the service of the ideals and objectives of our Organization.
(16.3) In this connection, I should like to say that the Republic of Tunisia attaches  great importance to the work of this Organization, and is determined to continue co-  operating with it in achieving its noble ideals. President Habib Bourguiba has instructed  me to inform you, once again, of his firm attachment to those lofty ideals and principles,  and to emphasize that they are in every respect consistent with those of our own country.  He hopes that this session of the General Conference will give fresh impetus to mutual con-  sultation and solidarity among nations. The second Medium-Term Plan, which was adopted at  the recent extraordinary session, is surely an indication of the opening up of a new and  fruitful period in the life of our Organization.
(16.4) I should also like to welcome the new Member States that have joined this Organi-  zation in 1983, namely Fiji and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. There can be no doubt  that their accession to membership of Unesco will broaden the scope of the Organization's  action in the world, enhance the impact of its projects and strengthen its universal  character.
(16.5) I should now like to turn, Mr President, to a few thoughts and observations on the  Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985, which has been submitted to us as document
22 C/5, so ably introduced by the Director-General. In our eyes, this draft programe and  budget is of great importance for a number of reasons, of which I shall mention only two.  First, it constitutes the initial phase in the implementation of the Medium-Term Plan, and  this strengthens our confidence that our decisions will in fact be translated into actual  practice. Second, this draft programme and budget is unprecedented in that it is the  result of a new planning, programing and budgeting methodology drawn up in accordance  with the directives of the twenty-first session of the General Conference (21 C/Resolu-  tion 100). In this connection I should like to commend the very considerable effort that  made it possible to produce this draft programme and budget within the prescribed time-  limit. We have also received all the related documents, particularly the Information  Annex, Appendices IV, V and VI, the Index, the explanatory guide and the glossary of terms.
(16.6) The Tunisian delegation noted with great satisfaction that the Director-General's  presentation was consistent, both in form and in content, with 4 XC/Resolution 5/01 adopted  by the fourth extraordinary session of the General Conference and with the discussion on  this matter that took place in Commissicn II. The translation of the Medium-Term Plan into  practical programme actions has been a remarkable achievement and the presentation of the  programmes and the budget in accordance with a structure corresponding to that of the Plan  itself makes the C/5 document clearer than the corresponding documents prepared in connec-  tion with previous programmes. We fully appreciate the methodological reasons that  prompted the Director-General to decide to present document 22 C/5 in a single volume, as  he was free to do under paragraph 3 of 4 XC/Resolution 5/01. The Tunisian delegation also  wishes to express its appreciation of the Introduction prepared by the Director-General,  which deals in turn with the general framework, the proposed programme and finally the  budget which the implementation of the programe will require. This Introduction affords  an overall view of the programme as a whole, brings out the importance and scope of the  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,
901    proposed actions, and ties them in realistically and judiciously with the provisions of  the second Medium-Term Plan, particularly the analysis of world problems given in document
4 xc/4. In fact, this Introduction should be regarded as an integral part of the documents  before us, while the explanations it provides, especially in the section entitled 'The Pro-  posed Programme' and the material dealing with the various subprogrammes grouped under each  major programme, should be regarded as a means of clarifying the proposals and should serve  as a guide to their validity in regard to each of the major programmes that go to make up  the programme as a whole.
(16.7) In addition, I should like to commend the Director-General for the great care  devoted to the presentation of Part I of the budget in its new format. He has redistrib-  uted the tasks of the various services of the Directorate, thereby demonstrating on the  one hand his desire to see the major programmes implemented in accordance with their speci-  fic character and their interdisciplinary aspects and confirming, on the other hand, the  determination to ensure continuity in the process of planning, programing, budgeting and  evaluation. Furthermore, we must praise the Director-General's efforts to achieve decen-  tralization in implementing the previous programe. We hope that he will continue those  efforts in accordance with the lines of emphasis set forth in paragraphs 203 to 210 of the  Introduction to document 22 C/5.
(16.8) Concerning the method of presentation, we have noted with satisfaction that it is  fully in accordance with the provisions of 4 XC/Resolution 5/01, and more particularly  with paragraph 3 of that resolution, in that it follows the major programmes contained in  Part II. First comes the proposed resolution, and then the work plan, broken down by pro-  grammes and subprogrammes, with each subprogramme giving a summary of targets and expected  results and a statement of the subprogramme's relevance, showing how it is linked to the  major programmes and how it is consistent with the goals and targets of the general pro-  gramme, and also making provision for the evaluation of the results attained. It seems  to me, however, that the sections entitled 'Expected results', which follow naturally from  the analysis of the actions themselves, would gain in clarity if they were placed after the  descriptions of those actions.
(16.9) Be this as it may, we may say that in general the document before us achieves a  satisfactory balance between the requirements of planning and the imperatives of implemen-  tation. Indeed, this document constitutes a new phase in Unesco's work in that it appears  as a coherent, integrated whole, with each proposed activity arising from a comprehensive  vision of fundamental world problems and clearly linked to one of the five tasks assigned  to Unesco, in the spirit of its Constitution and within the framework of the second Medium-  Term Plan, as a response to the challenges facing mankind. We wish to offer the Director-  General and all his colleagues our sincerest thanks and congratulations on this great  achievement and on the competence and far-sightedness which are reflected in document
22 C/5, for it is admirably consistent, both in conception and in presentation, with the  terms of 4 XC/Resolution 5/01.
(16.10) Mr President, after these general remarks on the basic document which will guide  our work at this Conference, I should now like to present the Tunisian delegation's point  of view on a number of world problems, while adding that we are prepared, at the Commis-  sion level, to do everything in our power to help the Organization to attain the goals it  has set for itself in accordance with its mission. As you are aware, ladies and gentle-  men, in the sphere of education we are facing a number of intricate problems whose complex-  ity is steadily increasing as a result of the accumulation of scientific and technological  knowledge and its far-reaching impact on every aspect of our existence. Furthermore, the  population explosion experienced by the Third World countries means that we may expect a  considerable shortfall in our ability to meet food needs and an increasingly serious situa-  tion as regards malnutrition, poverty and illiteracy in the most deprived regions of the  world. In addition, large-scale population movements both within those countries and  across their borders risk bringing about measures and forms of treatment that are incom-  patible with human rights. Nor must we underestimate the seriousness of the economic  crises characterized by simultaneous recession and inflation, which are growing more  severe day by day, resulting in the spread of unemployment and underemployment among hun-  dreds of millions of men and women. Besides all this, the countries that lack natural  resources are subjected, because of their poverty, to endless pressures which restrict  their progress towards comprehensive development, including development of the education  sector. Finally, relations between States and societies are marked by rising tensicn as  a result of political crises, efforts to achieve political hegemony, demographic imbalance  and shortages of food supplies, not to mention the squandering of available resources on  the arms race.
(16.11) In point of fact, ladies and gentlemen, these problems are not new, but we are  forced to acknowledge that they are, alas, becoming steadily more acute. We in Tunisia  are fully aware of the need for changes in relations between individuals, between cultures  and civilizations, and between human societies generally; indeed, we regard it as impera-  tive for the leaders of all the countries of the world to direct their attention to the  establishment of a new world order based on relations characterized by a spirit of toler-  ance and responsiveness, by readiness to engage in dialogue, and an effort to lay the  groundwork of justice and solidarity. In the light of these considerations, we can but  acknowledge the great importance placed by the draft programme and budget on Major Pro-  gramme I. This major programme corresponds to the imperatives of one of Unesco's func-  tions, which is to serve as a meeting-place for different cultures, languages, and spirit-  ual and intellectual approaches. It is no wonder, then, that Unesco is the most appropri-  ate international body to initiate an effort of intellectual reflection, worldwide in  scope, for the purpose of assessing the evolution of science, culture, education and com-  munication within the general context of the evolution of human societies. Unesco is also  ideally placed to work out a future-oriented design for the purpose of strengthening the  intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind. Accordingly, we are bound to support the  proposed establishment of a decentralized, worldwide network of research and analysis as  well as the proposed setting up of an international scientific committee to undertake  future-oriented studies. The implementation of these two projects on the basis of balanced  geographical distribution will ensure greater objectivity, interdisciplinarity and indepen-  dence of opinion among participating individuals and organizations.
(16.12) In this connection, it is essential for the international commcnity, through con-  certed action, to halt the deterioration in trade relations and establish a new financial  and commercial balance among the nations. Studies and research should also be directed to  the task of eliminating disparities between nations in regard to development, especially  growing disparities in education and culture and those that may be observed in the distri-  bution of scientific and technological potential. A concerted effort should accordingly be  made to strengthen the capabilities of the developing countries in those areas, beginning  with the least developed countries. It is vital to seek the best ways of strengthening  exchanges in the fields of culture and communication and achieving a greater degree of  balance in relations in those areas. Today, more than ever before, these constitute the  most crucial axes of relations between nations in all matters relating to efforts to  improve the economic situation and strengthen peace. Only by attaining these objectives  will it be possible to surmount the challenges confronting us, challenges which have been  referred to by many previous speakers. And only by this means will it be feasible to give  the lie to the various prophets of gloom and institute a new international economic order  based on justice and solidarity.
(16.13) I hope, Mr President, in this rapid survey of the draft document before us, that  the proposals presented under Major Programe XII will meet with the approval of the Con-  ference and will be implemented in full. This Major Programme is, of course, aimed at the  elimination of prejudice, intolerance, racism and apartheid. We also hope that the same  will apply in the case of Major Programme XII1,'which is concernrd with peace, interna-  tional understanding, human rights and the rights of peoples. For we see everywhere in  the world today the dignity of man being trampled under foot, justice disregarded, tensions  increasing and the sovereignty of peoples challenged. We also find racial discrimination  thriving in various forms, and particularly its most odious form, apartheid.
(16.14) Accordingly, the Tunisian delegation affirms once again, here in this forum, our  country's solidarity with the peoples of Africa, especially those directly confronting  apartheid in the southern part of the African continent, that system applied by a racist  State of whose identity we all are well aware. Nor can we refrain from mentioning the  situation of the Palestinian people, who have been expelled from their country, the land  of their ancestors, and denied a homeland of their own - indeed, their very existence is  threatened by those who have taken over their land by unjust violence. The Zionist entity  continues to violate every principle of justice and human rights, individual and collec-  tive, and to disregard the resolutions of international organizations: in the full view  of the entire world, it continues to perpetrate its criminal activities in the occupied  territories and in Lebanon. We have unequivocally and vigorously condemned, here and in  other forums, the arbitrary imprisonment of teachers, pupils and students at the hands of  the Zionist occupying authorities and the closing of educational institutions and the prac-  tice of placing multiple obstacles in the way of their functioning and growth, as we have  recently witnessed in the case of the University of Bethlehem and other secondary-level  institutions in the vicinity of Nablus. These violations of academic freedom and attempts  at falsification aimed at denigrating the validity of the culture of the Palestinian Arab  people have all been part of the work of Zionism. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot remain  silent in the face of the persistent refusal of the Zionist entity to give effect to the  recommendations and resolutions of the governing bodies of Unesco. Nor can we disregard  the policies aimed at Judaizing the city of Jerusalem, or the criminal acts of aggression  that have been committed against the Al-Aqsa Mosque and worshippers in it. The interna-  tional community should take up this challenge and assume its responsibilities in these  matters.
(16.15) Mr President, in the view of some participants in this Conference, Major Programmes  XII and XII1 do not come within Unesco's sphere of competence, or at the very best they are  beyond its means, or, again, if the Organization implements them it may find that it is  intruding into the spheres of competence of other international organizations. In point of  fact, in these last two decades of the twentieth century characterized by excessive special-  ization in the distribution of tasks and excessive fragmentation in the means available for  the performance of those tasks, it is the Organization's duty to see that projects relating  to education, science, culture and communication remain interrelated: by virtue of its  essential function, Unesco is called upon to ensure that activities in these fields are not  cut off from their source for, as we are all aware, they interconnect and interact. In our  view, then, the proposals which have been submitted to us are in the main line of Unesco's  task. The draft programme and budget as a whole constitutes a decisive event which will  result in a new and fruitful stage in the life of the Organization.
(16.16) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these are the observations and comments that  I wished to share with you at this stage in the general policy debate as a contribution to  the advancement of our work. As 1 mentioned earlier, the members of the Tunisian delega-  tion will spare no effort to participate constructively in the work of the various Commis-  sions. Thank you for your attention. The peace, mercy and blessing of God be upon you.  : &sil \Y>\  . ,J &+I 6 ~ i  +I LA ,.-I 6b &sk-, JL _;Lrr
(17.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  on my own behalf for his kind words of congratulation.
(17.2) I now give the floor to Mr Yuri Kochubei, Chairman of the National Commission of  the Ukrainian SSR for Unesco and Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, head of the delega-  tion of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic.  I thank the head of the Tunisian delegation for his remarks, and I also thank him
18.39 CO CBOe8 CTOPOHH YKpaHHCKaR CCP FOTOBa II BlIpeAb npHHHMaTb aKTHBHOe  YYaCTMe B BblllOJïHeHHM iipOi'paMMkl IOHECKO, B KOHCTPYKTMBHOM COTpynHMseCTBe  no pewewiiû BawHMx npOGAeM, CTORUHX nepen Hefi H BceM ~%cM. Enaronapm Bac, I?OCrIOAHH  ripeacenaTenb.
(18.1) Mr KOCHUBEI (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic) (Translation from the Russian):  high office of President of our Conference and to wish you every success.
(18.2) Mr President, Mr representative of the Director-General, distinguished delegates,  our Organization has come to this twenty-second session with a solid record of significant  achievements behind it. The period since the last session of the General Conference, held  in Belgrade in 1980, has been particularly fruitful. In our view, Unesco's activities dur-  ing that period have kept very much abreast of the times, undoubtedly helping to increase  the worldwide authority and influence of the Organization, which today comprises 161 Mem-  ber States. I should like to take this opportunity to extend a greeting to the delegates  of those countries which have just joined our Organization.
(18.3) One of Unesco's principal achievements in the foregoing period has undoubtedly  been the preparation and adoption of the Organization's second Medium-Term Plan and pro-  gramme of activities for the latter part of the second millennium and eve of the third.  This Plan, drawn up by our distinguished Director-General, Mr M'Bow, provides a comprehen-  sive view of the problems facing mankind; the fate of every human being and the preserva-  tion of life on earth as a whole depend on the solution to those problems. That polyphonic  view of the world, as it was described here, paves the way for our Organization to accomp-  lish its mission to serve as one of the intellectual centres of our world and as the stimu-  lus and catalyst of international co-operation in the interests of all countries and peoples.
(18.4) In this regard, this session will be a landmark in Unesco's history. Its adoption  of the Programme and Budget for 1984-1985 will mark the beginning of the implementation of  the second Medium-Term Plan. However, the situation today is confronting mankind with many  complex problems. As was stressed by Mr Andropov, Secretary-General of the Central Commit-  tee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, Chairman of the Praesidium of the Supreme  Soviet, 'There is justification for the fears of mankind concerning the worsening of the  problems of raw materials, energy, food, the environment and other problems of a world  dimension. And the most important issue of concern to peoples today is the need to pre-  serve peace and to avert a thermonuclear catastrophe'.
(18.5) We note with satisfaction that the document before us maps out the main lines of  the Organization's contribution to the solution of many problems, within its fields of  competence. A series of measures is planned, aimed at strengthening peace, mobilizing  world opinion to oppose the threat of nuclear catastrophe, and promoting disarmament. In  this way Unesco is responding as it should to the most relevant and pressing demands of  our time.
(18.6) The growing threat of the outbreak of nuclear war is the harsh reality of our time.  The imperialist forces led by the United States of America have been responsible for the  recent serious aggravation of the international situation in all parts of the world.
(18.7) Universal indignation and condemnation has been aroused by the act of direct,  unprovoked aggression by the United States of America against Grenada. The occupation of  that island defies law and morality and sets the most dangerous precedent. The events in  Grenada show that imperialism will stop at nothing to achieve its ends. And we must  remember this.  Mr President, first of all allow me to congratulate you on your election to the
(18.8) The policy of the racist regime of the Republic of South Africa and the aggressive  expansionist policy of the Government of Israel constitute a permanent threat to peace.
(18.9) As was stated in the appeal by the All-Union Conference of scientists for preserv-  ing mankind from the threat of nuclear war, for disarmament and peace, held in Moscow in  May this year, all the sacrifices and disastrous consequences of bloody wars in the history  of mankind, including the two world wars, would pale in comparison with what would happen  in the event of total nuclear conflict. In the entire history of warfare, the total quan-  tity of explosives used has not exceeded ten megatons. Yet today there is already an  aggregate capacity of over 50 thousand megatons stockpiled in nuclear arsenals. But quan-  titative measurements alone do not give an idea of the colossal power of modern weapons of  mass destruction. We are speaking of a danger that is qualitatively different and indeed  global - what is at stake is the existence of human civilization and perhaps of life  itself.
(18.10) If the course of international events has not come to that fatal pass, mankind  owes it to a great extent to the Soviet Union and the socialist countries, which are  actively and resolutely carrying out a policy to ensure the peace and security of peoples.
(18.11) The political declaration adopted in Prague in January this year at the meeting of  the political consultative committee of the Member States of the Warsaw Pact reaffirmed  the socialist countries' determination to contribute by peaceful initiatives to eliminating  the threat of war and building confidence in relations between States.
(18.123 The practical expression of this policy is to be found in the peace initiatives  taken by the Soviet Union at the thirty-eighth session of the United Nations General  Assembly, aimed at curbing the nuclear arms race and improving the political climate in  the world.
(18.13) Our Organization should also raise its voice in defence of peace and international  security.
(18.14) The declaration, 'Preserving the world from nuclear catastrophe', adopted by the  participants in the twenty-first co-ordinating meeting of the socialist countries' National  Commissions for Unesco (Liblice, 1983) includes an appeal to workers in science, education  and culture in the world, and to the National Commissions for Unesco of all countries, to  raise their voice in defence of peace and against the threat of nuclear catastrophe, and  for universal peace, friendship and co-operation among peoples. The General Conference  is the forum in which this should be done.
(18.15) Our session has to discuss an important document and a draft resolution entitled  'Role of Unesco in generating a climate of public opinion conducive to the halting of the  arms race and the transition to disarmament'. The Second Special Session Devoted to Dis-  armament of the United Nations General Asserrbly expressed great appreciation of the con-  tribution made by our Organization to the promotion of peace and security in its fields of  competence. Our duty is to work ceaselessly towards that end.
(18.16) Mr President, 1985 will mark the fortieth anniversary of the end of the Second  World War - the most bloody tragedy in the history of mankind the memory of which will  never be erased.
(18.17) The Second World War took more than 50 million human lives and reduced thousands  of towns and villages to ruins. These figures make anyone who holds life dear shudder,  and force us to meditate on the lessons of history and remind ourselves over and over  again of the danger now looming over the world. And the danger is far more threatening  now than it was before. In the event of another world war, hundreds of millions of people  could be killed within literally a matter of hours.
(18.18) This is why we call upon all delegates to support the draft resolution submitted  by the Soviet Union concerning measures to be taken by Unesco in connection with the  fortieth anniversary of the end of the Second World War. By adopting this draft resolu-  tion, Unesco will be making its contribution to the strengthening of peace and will render  due hommage to the victims of Fascism.
(18.19) Allow me to refer to another date - the tenth anniversary of the signing of the  Final Act of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe. Last September saw  the conclusion of the Madrid meeting of representatives of States participating in the  Conference. Its success is a notable achievement for the school of thought in interna-  tional affairs which advocates dialogue and mutual understanding and the settlement of  problems around the negotiating table.
(18.20) It is our view that by adopting the draft resolution proposed by the Soviet Union,  providing for measures to be taken Dy Unesco in connection with the tenth anniversary of  the Conference, the Organization will not only be responding to the Madrid meeting's call  for this anniversary to be duly observed, but will also be making its contribution to  efforts to improve the international situation, ease tension in relations between States  and strengthen stability and security in Europe, which are undermined by the plans to  station on this continent American first-strike weapons directed against the Soviet Union  and the other socialist countries.
(18.21) Mr President, going on to consider individual groups of projects in Unesco's pro-  gramme for the forthcoming biennium, the delegation of the Ukrainian SSR would like to  state that in the main, the programme is felt to be acceptable. Nevertheless, we note in  this connection that there are digressions in it from some of the provisions of the Medium-  Term Plan.
(18.22) The programmes in education are on the whole in keeping with the main lines set  forth in the Medium-Term Plan and endorsed by the majority of Member States.
(18.23) The trend towards the growing need of society, countries, individual organizations  and the public for the international sharing or pooling of efforts in resolving issues of  general or national concern, the present pace of the development of science and technology,  and the scale of the scientific tasks being tackled create the need for States to make  intensive use of international scientific co-operation as one of the instruments for fram-  ing their national science and technology policies. This is why we consider Unesco's con-  siderable activities in the natural sciences tc be important and useful.
(18.24) In our opinion, the new biennial programme should give a new impulse to co-  operation, including European co-operation, within the framework of previous long-term  intergovernmental programmes and under the three new subprogrammes 'Informatics', 'Applied  microbiology and biotechnology' and 'Renewable energies', the inclusion of which in the  biennial programme under consideration we fully support.
(18.25) For our part we are prepared to participate in such co-operation. Scientists in  our Republic are taking an active part in the implementation of global programmes such as  the 'Man and the Biosphere' programme, IGCP, IHP and the programe of the Intergovernmen-  tal Oceanographic Commission.
(18.26) As has repeatedly been stressed, the maintaining of peace in the world is of the  utmost importance and relevance today. Scientists concerned with the natural sciences -  physics, chemistry, biology, cybernetics - are professionally better placed than anyone to  understand the consequences of nuclear war and the fatal effects of modern types of weapons  of mass destruction on the human organism and the environment. In this connection,  Unesco's efforts towards a further study of the role of scientists in the arms race and  their .possible contribution to disarmament are very important.
(18.27) The delegation of the Ukrainian SSR sets great store by Unesco's activities relat-  ing to the development of culture in the world and endorses the general content of Major  Programme XI, 'Culture and the future'.
(18.28) We consider that in a situation in which human civilization is threatened with  annihilation, it is necessary to join forces in the struggle for peace and against the  evil which divides peoples - against hostility and national hatred. It is necessary to  strengthen bonds of friendship and co-operation among peoples. Culture plays an important  part in this respect. We believe that the programme 'Culture and the future' should be  more deeply permeated with the concepts put forward by the World Conference on Cultural  Policies, whose central theme was precisely the role of culture in the struggle for peace  and against colonialism and racism and for the preservation of the cultural identity of  peoples.
(18.29) The delegation of the Ukrainian SSR is gratified to note the inclusion of a new  subprogramme, 'International cultural co-operation', which will contribute to the develop-  ment of subregional, regional, interregional and international co-operation.
(18.30) The delegation of the Ukrainian SSR attaches great importance to Unesco's activi-  ties concerning the study and dissemination of Slav cultures, and supports measures in this  field.
(18.31) An important step in the development of Slav culture was the ninth International  Congress of Slavists, held in Kiev in September this year. It adopted an Appeal to all  scientists of the world, stating that 'it was, precisely, in the context of peaceful  coexistence that the most favourable opportunities were provided for the exchange of cul-  tural values between peoples, that confidence in the benefits of the development of sciepce  and culture was built up and that faith in universal social progress was strengthened'.  The Appeal stresses that 'there is no more important task than the struggle to eliminate  the danger of nuclear war, war of any kind, and force'.
(18.32) Cultural exchanges play a considerable role in deepening mutual understanding and  strengthening friendship between peoples. An important aspect of action in this field, in  our view, is the organization under Unesco's auspices of international travelling exhibi-  tions such as the exhibitions of Islamic art and Slav art. In this connection the delega-  tion of the Ukrainian SSR is submitting a draft resolution on Unesco's participation in  the setting up of an international travelling exhibition of holographs of historical objects  from the world's museums. We hope that the organization of such an exhibition will afford  new scope for the popularization of the cultural heritage, help people to become acquainted  with the culture of others and foster the development of cultural exchanges.
(18.33) The fact that questions concerning the social sciences are reflected in five major  programmes out of fourteen is ample testimony to the role that Unesco is called upon to  play in their development. The social sciences reflect the spirit of humanism and co-  operation among peoples which lies at the heart of all Unesco's activities. We also fully  support Major Programme XIV.
(18.34) At the same time we should like to point out that in some programmes, especially  Major Programme XIII, inadequate stress has been placed on disarmament issues and action  to avert a nuclear catastrophe. Unfortunately, some of the main provisions of the Medium-  Term Plan such as the elimination of the threat of war and nuclear catastrophe, participa-  tion by leading scientists in the campaign against the nuclear danger and the important  role of the media in strengthening peace, have not been reflected in this Major Programme.  The programme does not refer to the practical measures already put forward in the socialist  countries' proposals, in particular under the theme 'the role and responsibility of the  world's scientists in ensuring a just and lasting peace'. The purpose of the draft resolu-  tion submitted by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, 'An appeal to workers in science,  culture, education and information', which we fully support, is precisely to rectify that  omission. In Major Programme VIII, the intimate link between the struggle for peace and  disarmament and the establishment of the new international economic order should be  reflected in a more clear-cut and definite manner.
(18.35) We also have serious comments to make on the subject of Major Programme III,  'Communication in the service of man'.
(18.36) We consider that the international exchange of information should be well balanced  and should serve the cause of peace, mutual understanding and the progress of peoples.  Information imperialism (examples of which have been referred to by many speakers here) is  one of the most dangerous forms of neo-colonialism and must be brought to an end. One of  the distinguished delegates here compared the press to a 'watchdog'. It is of course his  right to do so. But as folk wisdom in any country has it, a dog will not bite his own  master. And it is well known that the masters of the mass media in the capitalist world  are their owners, the transnational corporations. For that reason, the so-called 'free  flow of information' is so often simply a flow of deliberate misinformation. We are in  favour of truthfully and responsibly informing the public, but are in no way encroaching  on its freedom, as some people have tried to suggest in this forum. It is perfectly clear  that the most important item on the agenda is the preparation of a draft Declaration on the  principles of the new world information order established on an equitable basis and respond-  ing to the interests of all countries and peoples.
(18.37) These are our brief comments on specific major projects of Unesco's programme for  the forthcoming biennium. We shall discuss them in greater detail in the respective com-  mittees and commissions.
(18.38) Mr President, we know that there are people in the world who do not like our Organ-  ization's constructive action and who would be prepared to undermine and destroy it. They  are the very people who are prepared to destroy thewhole of our world because it does not  wish to live by the laws of the imperialist jungle imposed upon it. We, men and women of  good will, representing the overwhelming majority of mankind, must rally round and not let  the Organization founded by us be destroyed. And we are in a position to do so by our  joint efforts.
(18.39) For its part, the Ukrainian SSR is prepared to take an active part in carrying out  Unesco's programme and in constructive co-operation to solve the important problems facing  the Organization and the world as a whole. Thank you Mr President.
(19.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  his remarks, and I also thank him on my own behalf for his kind words of congratulation.  I thank the head of the delegation of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic for
(19.2) I now give the floor to Mr Chimango, Minister of Education acd Culture and head of  the delegation of Malawi.
20.1 Mr CHIMANGO (Malawi) :  by congratulating you, Mr President, on your election. The task you face is not  an easy one, but we share the confidence which the General Conference has placed  in you, and pray for your success.
20.2 Mr President, permit me also to express my deep appreciation of the tre-  mendous work that the Director-General has done in the period since the twenty-  first session. I refer particularly to the preparation of the second Medium-Term  Plan and the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985. Of particular importance  to us is the method of consultation with Member States, international governmental  and non-governmental organizations and other interested parties. The harmony that  has resulted between these two documents is most commendable.
20.3 Furthermore, the new format of writing up the budget according to major  programmes marks a definite improvement. It makes for clarity and provides more  details of proposed activities.
20.4 Mr president, my delegation is very happy to note that education-related  programes qccount for some 15 per cent of the total budget and about 37 per cent  of the resources allocated to the fourteen major programes. It is my hope that a  larger proportion of this allocation will be used in direct assistance to Member  States, for example through fellowships and national projects. This is particularly  important to developing countries, where trained manpower is in great demand.
20.5 Mr President, I also note that the participation programme has been allo-  cated an amount of $10.5 million. It is my hope that the Secretariat will pay  more attention to the increasing importance of this programme, as the number of  projects submitted in the last budget period totalled approximately $65 million.  The participation programme is a unique programme, which accords Member States a  degree of flexibility in meeting their local requirements. It is our hope that  Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, let me start
910    Unesco will favourably consider the various recommendations which have been pro-  posed by the different meetings of Member States, particularly those that concern  National Commissions. The Fifth Regional Conference of African National Commis-  sions, held in Yaounde, Cameroon in May 1983, was an event of particular impor-  tance to my region.
20.6 Mr President, Malawi's major development objectives as stated in the  Development Plan drawn up soon after the attainment of independence and repeated  in the Policy Statement 1971-1980 are first and foremost, expansion of agricul-  tural production; secondly, improvement of internal communications; thirdly,  raising the standard of living of the rural population; and, fourthly, a balanced  regional development. In short, we are geared to increasing agricultural produc-  tion to ensure self-sufficiency in food and to improving the people's standard  of living, particularly that of the rural population.
20.7 Mr President, illiteracy constitutes a problem that has to be faced by  most developing countries, including my own. Efforts to combat illiteracy in  Malawi are being made through both formal and non-formal education. With assist-  ance from various international organizations, notably the World Bank, through  its affiliate, the International Development Association, we have made every  effort to ensure that primary education facilities are within reach of everyone.  There has, of course, been a resultant increase in the demand for secondary edu-  cation, and we have consequently taken steps to construct additional secondary  schools to cater for at least part of that demand. This effort continues.
20.8 Education must be related to the needs of the country. In Malawi, empha-  sis in certain spheres of education reflects some of these needs. The opening of  the Malawi Institute of Education, in which Unesco has been involved, has greatly  helped our efforts to keep our primary school curriculum under constant review.  The opening of the Natural Resources College also indicates the government's in-  tention to relate education services to the world of work, notably in the field of  agriculture education.
20.9 Mr President, Let me now mention very briefly our current efforts in non-  formal education. The functional literacy programme in Malawi is a well-known  project among the relevant Unesco sectors. This project, I am happy to say, has  proved that literacy is a tool that can be meaningfully utilized to bring about  socio-economic change in communities. Five hundred functional literacy centres,  with an annual coverage of 10,000 illiterates, are now operational. It is hoped  to raise the number of centres to 1,000 by the year 1985, with a coverage of
22,000 illiterates per annum.
20.10 Mr President, I wish to place on record our gratitude for the assistance  which Unesco, with funds from the United Nations Development Programme is giving  to this project. This assistance has contributed much to our success.
20.11 I now turn to special education. Malawi actively participated in the Inter-  national Year of Disabled Persons in 1981, through the formation of an inter-  ministerial committee, and also through participation in the Unesco subregional  project for special education in Eastern and Southern African countries. This pro-  ject is drawing to a close, but - and I am sure my colleagues from the countries  covered by this project will agree with me in this - its impact continues to be  felt. It is therefore my hope that Unesco will continue its efforts to assist  Member States in the field of special education services for the dfsabled.
20.12 Mr President, the Government of Malawi also recognizes the vital contri-  bution which is made by women to national development processes. Recent census  figures show that women account for 52 per cent of Malawi's population. In recog-  nition of this potential for development, women's programmes have been established  in agriculture, health and education and within the ruling Malawi Congress Party.  It is therefore gratifying to note that women have received due attention in  Unesco's major programmes for the coming biennium.
20.13 Women's programmes in my country range from the establishment of women's  units in agriculture, (where emphasis is laid on increased food production and on  family health activities), to women's organization within the Party, i.e. in  the League of Malawi Women of the Malawi Congress Party. The principle of women's  involvement in the development of our country is strongly advocated by the father  and founder of the Malawi nation, His Excellency the Life President, Ngwazi Dr H.  Kamuzu Banda. In Malawi as elsewhere, we believe that 'if you educate a man you  educate but an individual, whilst if you educate a women you educate a nation'.  Hence in recent years, apart from providing equal educational opportunities for  both boys and girls, the Government has paid special attention to the needs of  girls by expanding boarding secondary schools for girls and by increasing the  enrolment of women in teacher-training colleges. In higher education, the opening
91 1    of the KamLzu College of Nursing, a constituent college of the University of  Malawi, serves as further testimony of the involvement of women in the socio-  economic development of our country.
20.14 Mr President, every government recognizes the importance of culture. In a  world of intricate interrelationships, culture must be able to retain its national  identity as well as be dynamic. To ensure the meaningful co-ordination of all  cultures and cultural agencies, the Government of Malawi decided to delegate  responsibility for cultural development to the Ministry of Education and thus  formed the present Ministry of Education and Culture. On the international scene,  Malawi's membership of regional organizations like the Organization of Museums,  Monuments and Sites of Africa and its ratification of the World Cultural Heritage  Convention on 5 January 1982 have enabled it to participate in the international  dialogue on culture. It is gratifying to note that culture is accorded a satisfac-  tory proportion of Unesco's budget for the biennium 1984-1985.
20.15 Communication in all its diverse aspects is another field which no govern-  ment must lose sight of. Whatever its nature, communication must bring about closer  relationships within the same country and between it and other countries. This  need is particularly clear when we talk of rural vis-à-vis urban communities.  Malawi is undertaking rural projects in communication, by developing roads, postal  services and telecommunication infrastructures. Our efforts to modernize our rural  telephone services continue. The recent inauguration of Kamuzu International Air-  port in Lilongwe, is a remarkable testimony of my country's wish to improve its  physical communication links with the outside world.
20.16. Let me therefore commend Unesco, Mr President, on the creation of the  International Programme for the Development of Communication. Developing countries  lack the capacities with which to develop their communication infrastructures. It  is our hope that with the co-operation of international organizations and donor  governments, we in the developing countries will be able to satisfy the communica-  tion needs of rural communities. The existence of 128 library centres in Malawi,  located in community centres, literacy centres and schools, and the creation of a  film industry designed mainly to publicize national development efforts, bear testi-  mony to the Government's commitment to the development of communication. All these  areas of communication require funds. They require trained manpower. Gur success so  far must therefore be measured in relation to these very real constraints. I am  glad that Unesco has paid attention to this important field, and I hope that all  governments will follow its lead. My country has been participating actively in  World Communication Year (1983) declared by the United Nations General Assembly.
20.17 In the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985, Major Programme VI is  devoted to the sciences and their application to development. We are gathered here  to find and promote means of enhancing the development of our people. We recognize  that if used for peaceful purposes science is a means of raising people's standard  of living. In Malawi, this factor is evident in the activities being undertaken  by the Government and by other relevant governmental and non-governmental  organizations.
20.18 Our university is engaged in a number of research activities which include  the cropping system for small farmers, water pumps for rural communities, evalua-  tive research on rural piped water projects and many others. Emphasis on such  research has always been placed on the suitability of locally based technology  for Malawi's socio-economic needs. Gur research must aim at utilizing the resources  that are abundant in the country. The wood energy project being executed by the  Government is another example in this connection. Its aim is to ensure that local  communities are able to use resources available to them, and at the same time that  they are alerted to the need to replace these resources.
20.19 As we all know, this decade has been declared the International Drinking  Water Supply and Sanitation Decade, the aim of which is to provide clean drinking  water for all by the year 1990. The implementation of this programme entails the  provision of adequate finance, manpower and, above all, technology. In Malawi,  this means another 11,000 boreholes in addition to the existing 4,500. Although  our programme for rural water supply is already a model for the developing world,  it is evident that much more needs to be done so that more and more of the  people can benefit in this respect. The rural piped water project now covers more  than twelve districts out of twenty-four, with a total of more than 5,000 km of  piping, and already serves more than half a million people. Gur efforts are con-  tinuing thanks to the support of international and governmental donor agencies. It  is our hope, Mr President, that Unesco will continue to assist Member States  through its major regional projects in hydrology.
20.20 Mr President, allow me to commend Unesco for involving National Commissions  in the preparation and execution of its programmes. I appeal to the Secretariat
912    to encourage this participation, since National Commissions are the focal points  for Unesco in all Member States.
20.21 Before concluding, may I express the appreciation of the people of Malawi  for the visit which the Director-General paid to our country in August 1981. This  was an encouragement to us in our involvement with Unesco, and assisted our  National Commission which had only just been set up at that time. With the recent  appointment of a permanent delegate who will shortly present his credentials to the  Organization, my country has further demonstrated its wish to strengthen  co-operation with Unesco.
20.22 You may rest assured that Malawi will continue to co-operate with Unesco  in its programmes and to promote peace for the benefit of all mankind. It is in  this spirit, that I extend to this Conference best wishes from the Life President  of the Republic of Malawi, His Excellency Nhwazi Dr H. Kamuzu Banda, who is un-  doubtedly one of the strongest advocates of the principle of 'contact and dialogue'  and of the principle of peaceful Co-existence among nations. Thank you for your  attention.
(21.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  for his kind words of congratulation.
(21.2)  tion of the Ivory Coast.  I thank the head of the delegation of Malawi, and I also thank him on my own behalf  I now give the floor to H.E. Mr Eugène Aidara, Ambassador and head of the delega-
22.1 M. AIDARA (Côte d'Ivoire) :  Monsieur leprésident de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du  Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Honorables délequés, Mesdames,  Messieurs, permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, de joindre ma voix à celles des  distingués délégués qui m'ont précédé à cette tribune pour vous féliciter, à mon  tour, pour votre brillante élection à la présidence de la vingt-deuxième session  de la Conférence générale. A travers votre personne, c'est un hommage que la com-  munauté internationale rend à votre pays, le Royaume hachémite de Jordanie, avec  lequel mon pays, la Côte d'Ivoire, s'enorgueillit de partager les nobles idéaux  de justice, de solidarité et de paix. Vos éminentes qualités intellectuelles,  morales et humaines sont le gage certain du succès de nos travaux qui se déroulent,  il faut en convenir, dans un contexte international particulièrement préoccupant.
22.2 Comment, dans ces conditions, ne pas se remémorer, pour la méditer profon-  dément, l'alternative cruelle, d'une brutale actualité, énoncée jadis par l'un des  pères fondateurs de l'Unesco et que rappelait de façon sj opportune le Directeur  général, M. M'Uow, à la fin de l'excellent rapport qu'il vient de nous présenter :  "vivre ensemble ou préférer cesser de vivre". Notre choix - et celui, je crois,  de tous ici - est "vivre ensemble". Toutefois, le choix de vivre ensemble impose  à la communauté internationale des responsabilités particulières que, pour notre  part et à notre humble niveau, nous essayons d'assumer pleinement.
22.3 A un moment où il est plus facile de faire la guerre que de faire la paix,  je voudrais vous convier à méditer ces paroles d'un homme de paix, le Président  Félix Houphouët-Boigny : "Celui qui court après la paix ne doit ni s'essouffler,  ni se décourager".
22.4 Monsieur le Directeur général, je voudrais vous dire que vous accomplissez  sous nos yeux, avec foi, rigueur et intelligence, une gigantesque oeuvre de paix.  Vous ne devez donc ni vous essoxffler, ni vous décourager, ni reculer devant les  difficultés et les obstacles que comporte nécessairement cette noble et généreuse  entreprise. Vous pouvez, ce faisant, compter sur le soutien sarLs faille, la compré-  hension et la totale disponibilité de mon pays. Vos initiatives heureuses et coura-  geuses en faveur de l'édification d'un monde de paix, de justice, d'amour, de fra-  ternité et de liberté, un monde débarrassé de ses préjugés, de l'ignorance, de la  haine, de l'intolérance, de l'incompréhension et de la violence recueillent l'adhé-  sion de ma délégation puisqu'elles coïncident avec les idées-forcesqui sous-tendent  et inspirent l'action de mon gouvernement.
22.5 Monsieur le Président, l'évolution actuelle du monde nous préoccupe grave-  ment. Chaque jour qui passe nous apporte la preuve de la dégradation, voire du  délabrement moral vers lequel glisse inexorablement l'humaniké. I1 n'est plus d'évé-  nements, fussent-ils les plus graves, pour nous surprendre et nous étonner. I1 n'est
913    plus d'images, fussent-elles les plus insoutenables, dont on ne finisse pzr s'acco-  moder, tant l'horreur, le sang, les larmes et les deuils participent de notre envi-  ronnement quotidien. Les événements les plus graves se succèdent avec une telle  rapidité qu'ils créent insensiblement une espèce d'accoutumance, voire une anes-  thésie collective, qui peut - si nous n'y prenons garde - nous conduire à l'indif-  férence totale face à l'horreur et nous habituer de façon irrémédiable au dérégle-  ment de la raison.
22.6 Face à l'évolution actuelle du monde, où l'empire de la raison semble se  rétrécir telle une peau de chagrin, il était juste que le havre de bon sens, ce  supplément d'âme qu'est notre Organisation, invitât la communauté internationale  à faire une pause, afin de se donner le temps de la réflexion ; une réflexion  patiente et approfondie, faisant appel à tous les hommes de bonne volonté, à quel-  que région qu'ils appartiennent, afin d'aider à trouver un langage de vérit6, ou  à défaut, à constituer une instance de dialogue, prélude à un langage commun.
22.7 C'est pourquoi ma délégation se félicite de l'existence dugrand programme I,  "Réflexions sur les problèmes mondiaux et études prospectives", et appuie les ac-  tions proposées au titre de ce grand programme, et notamment le projet de création  d'un réseau d'analyses et de recherches, ainsi que d'un comité scientifique inter-  national, afin de collecter, d'analyser et d'échanger les connaissances sur les  problèmes mondiaux et d'apporter une contribution originale à la réflexion. Par là,  Monsieur le Président, l'Unesco ne fait qu'accomplir la mission que lui a assignée  la communauté internationale : ériger les défenses de la paix dans l'esprit des  hommes. Noble mission assurément, puisque la paix à laquelle nous aspirons tous  demeure pour nous la condition indispensable de notre développement.
22.8 Les objectifs du grand programme II, "L'éducation ;?our tous", et ceux du  grand programme V, "Education, formation et société", rejoignent ceux de mon gou-  vernement. La réalisation du droit à l'éducation constitue une constante préoccu-  pation de mon gouvernement qui en a fait la priorité de ses priorités. En effet,  tout ce qui touche à l'homme, à son plein épanouissement intellectuel, moral et  matériel, ne peut que rencontrer l'adhésion totale du président Houphouët-Boigny  dont le souci premier est le devenir toujours meilleur de son peuple et des peuples  des autres nations. Ma délégation appuie les activités prévues au titre de ces  grands programmes et notamment celles qui visent à la rénovation de l'enseignement  primaire et au renforcement des capacités nationales en vue de maîtriser le fléau  que constitue, à nos yeux, l'analphabétisme. Ma délégation se félicite, en parti-  culier, du sous-programme consacré à l'éducation en milieu rural, puisqu'il  s'adresse à ceux de nos frères les plus nombreux mais les moins favorisés qui sont  cependant les principaux artisans de notre prospérité.
22.9 Monsieur le Président, la science et la technologie, mises au service de  l'homme pour un développement équilibré, endogène et donc harmonieux, nous parait  indispensable pour assurer à l'humanité le mieux-être auquel elle aspire légiti-  mement. Et c'est pourquoi nous donnons notre caution à la partie du Projet de  programme qui traite de cette question dans l'optique du progrès des peuples et  notamment les grands programmes V et VI qui, conformément. aux orientations du Plan  à moyen terme, visent à renforcer la coopération intellectuelle internationale et  à soutenir les efforts nationaux de recherche et de formation dans les domaines  des sciences exactes et naturelles, des sciences sociales et humaines, des sciences  de l'ingénieur et de la technologie.
22.10 I1 me plaît, à cet égard, d'indiquer que mon pays vient d'abriter une réu-  nion d'experts scientifiques venus d'une quarantaine de pays d'Afrique, d'Europe,  d'Amérique et d'Asie, pour la plupart membres de l'Agence de coopération culturelle  et technique, ainsi qu'une vingtaine d'organisations internationales. Cette réu-  nion a été suivie d'une conférence des ministres de la recherche scientifique et  de l'enseignement supérieur qui s'est penchée sur les trois thèmes suivants : poli-  tique et stratégie de la recherche pour la codéveloppement ; mobilisation des res-  sources humaines et financières ; information scientifique et technique.
22.11 Les conclusions de ces deux importantes rencontres, consignées dans ce  qu'il est convenu d'appeler la Déclaration de Yamoussoukro, sont conformes à  l'un des objectifs définis par l'Unesco, à savoir le renforcement des capacités  scientifiques et techniques des Etats membres, afin de mieux maîtriser leurs be-  soins essentiels que sont la santé, l'alimentation, l'habitat et l'éducation, par  l'acquisition des savoirs et des savoir-faire : elles pxticipent en outre des  efforts entrepris par notre Organisation en vue de susciter plus d'équité entre  les hommes et entre les peuples dans la maitrise des connaissances et leur appli-  cation ; elles témoignent enfin de la volonté des participants de donner des bases  solides aux échanges et à la coopération dans le domaine de l'éducation, de la  science et de la technologie au service de l'homme.
22.12 Ma délégotion appuie donc les actions proposées au titre du grand pro-  gramme IX consacré à la science, à la technologie et à la société, dans la mesure  où elles visent, dans leur ensemble, à satisfaire les besoins et les aspirations
914    des hommes. Elle souhaiterait toutefois que l'on développe davantage l'action pro- 17  posée relative au rôle et à la responsabilité des hommes de science dans l'utili-  sation de la science au service de la paix, ainsi que dans la lutte pour le  désarmement.
22.13 Monsieur le Président, mon gouverment attache une grande importance à tout  ce qui touche à l'utilisation, à la protection et à l'amélioration des diverses  composantes de l'environnement humain. Aussi ne ménage-t-il aucunement ses efforts  au sein des organes de l'Unesco auxquels il participe, et notamment du Conseil  international du Programme sur l'homme et la biosphère (MAB) dont la présidence  est assurée par le Dr Balla Keita, ministre de l'éducation nationale et de la  recherche scientifique, chef de la délégation ivoirienne à cette vingt-deuxième  session de la Conférence générale.
22.14 Je puis vous assurer, en ce qui concerne la forêt de Tai, que des dispo-  sitions rigoureuses seront prises en vue d'en assurer la conservation et une meil-  leure protection. Mon pays reste en effet convaincu de la valeur scientifique ex-  ceptionnelle de ce patrimoine mondial et de son importance dans l'équilibre des  écosystèmes naturels, à un moment où la sécheresse et d'autres calamités naturelles  gagnent des régions jusqu'ici épargnées, compromettant ainsi gravement leur éco-  nomie et entrainant toutes sortes de pénuries et de maux.
22.15 Il s'ensuit une situation de dépendance accrue et d'assistance n'excluant  pas toujours des arrières-pensées politiques qui perpétuent les rapports inégaux  savamment entretenus par des systèmes économiques et un réseau d'information et  de communication dont les règles sont imposées, et à l'amélioration desquelles  mon pays est, quant à lui, résolu à participer. Aussi applaudit-il à l'importante  contribution de l'Unesco à la mise en place de la PANA et souhaite-t-il que des  efforts soient entrepris afin de permettre à tous les pays de participer à ce qu'il  est convenu d'appeler le nouvel ordre mondial de l'information. La liberté, la di-  gnité, la compréhension et la paix sont à ce prix !
22.16 Toutefois, la liberté et la dignité que nous revendiquons pour nous-mêmes  ne seraient pas complètes si elles ne s'accompagnaient pas d2la libération de nos  frères, de tous nos frères encore sous le joug colonial et victimes des préjugés  raciaux.
22.17 Nous estimons en effet qu'une étape décisive vers la réalisation de la paix  et de la compréhension internationale, en vue de l'amélioration des relations in-  ternationales, passe aussi par la reconnaissance des cultures, la promotion des  identités culturelles, l'élimination des préjugés, la reconnaissance des droits  fondamentaux des peuples, de tous les peuples, à l'existence et à la libre dispo-  sition d'eux-mêmes.
22.18 C'est pourquoi ma délégation appuie les grands programmes XI, XII et XII1  consacrés à ces importantes questions. En effet, l'analyse scientifique des pré-  jugés, de l'intolérance, du racisme et de l'apartheid, en mettant à nu tous leurs  fondements, permettra de mieux les appréhender pour mieux les éliminer.
22.19 Qu'il me soit ensuite permis, Monsieur le Président, après avoir parlé de  cette situation d'inégalité, d'évoquer la question de la condition féminine et  celle de la jeunesse.
22.20 Nombreux sont les orateurs qui ont attiré l'attention de la Conférence  générale sur la condition des femmes. Malgré les importants efforts déployés par  la communauté internationale depuis 1975, beaucoup reste encore à faire afin  d'assurer la pleine intégration de la femme aux différents niveaux de la vie poli-  tique, économique, sociale et culturelle. La fin, en 1985, de la Décennie des  Nations Unies pour la femme nous permettra de faire le bilan de l'ensemble des  progrès accomplis.
22.21 D'ores et déjà, il nous paraît souhaitable que notre Organisation poursuive  ses efforts dans la ligne des programmes lancés pour promouvoir et améliorer la  condition féminine. Ce faisant, l'Unesco pourra sûrement contribuer, une fois en-  core, à la réduction des inégalités sociales qui pénalisent si tragiquement la  femme.
22.22 A propos de ia jeunesse, notre plus précieux capital, reconnaissons que  l'Organisation des Nations Unies, en lui dédiant l'année 1984, nous invite déjà  à une réflexion féconde sur les voies et moyens de préserver le potentiel humain  qui préfigure l'avenir de notre monde et explique le sens de nos sacrifices d'hier,  d'aujourd'hui et de demain.
22.23 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais encore une fois féliciter M. le Direc-  teur général, et avec lui tous les hommes et toutes les femmes qui, à ses côtés,
915    ont collaboré à l'accomplissement de ce travail gigantesque et 5 la préparation de  notre session. Je voudrais lui dire notre entière satisfaction devant le Projet de  programme et de budget pour 1984-1985 qui, de l'avis de ma délégation, est en par-  faite conformité avec les orientations du deuxième Plan à moyen terme (1984-1989).
22.24 Je me réjouis en outre du parfait équilibre qui s'y révèle entre les exi-  gences de la réflexion et celles de l'action, ainsi que se sont plu à le reconnaître  certains des orateurs qui m'ont précédé. Qu'il me soit permis d'exprimer notre appui  aux mesures de décentralisation proposées dans le cadre de l'exécution du Programme,  mais de m'inquiéter des incertitudes financières qui planent sur notre Organisation  et qui pourraient, si elles se confirmaient, compromettre ses activités.
22.25 C'est pourquoi ma délégation appuie sans réserve les recommandations du  Conseil exécutif relatives au plafond budgétaire pour 1984-1985 tel qu'il ressort  du rapport introductif du Directeur général.
22.26 Je voudrais adresser mes vives félicitations aux Etats qui rejoignent notre  grande famille. Puisse leur participation à la vie de notre Organisation lui ap-  porter un souffle nouveau pour le plus grand bien de tous.
22.27 Je voudrais pour terminer m'acquitter d'un devoir : celui de remercier, au  nom de ma délegation, M. Ivo Margan, président de la vingt et unième session ordi-  naire et de la quatrième session extraordinaire de la Conférence générale, chef de  la délégation de la Yougoslavie, qui tout au long de son mandat a montré compétence,  loyauté et équité. J'associe à ces remerciements M. Victor Massuh, pour la dispo-  nibilité et le dévouement dont il a fait preuve en tant que Président du Conseil  exécutif. Son action à la tête de cet organe central de l'Unesco, son étroite col-  laboration avec le Secrétariat, son esprit de conciliation ont permis au Projet de  programme et de budget de voir le jour.
22.28 Puissent ces deux personnalités, quels que soient les rôles qu'elles seront  désormais appelées à assumer, continuer à mettre à la disposition de notre Organi-  sation la longue et riche expérience qu'elles ont accumulée. Je vous remercie.  : u+>' YTJ\  . J ...'~L+L.-;J d_sI;I +i Los d &-I &>GJ idle, $kt
(23.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  thank him on my own behalf for his kind words of congratulation.
(23.2) I now give the floor to the representative of the Standing,Committee of Interna-  tional Non-governmental Organizations, Mrs Françoise Lafitte.  I thank the head of the delegation of the Ivory Coast for his remarks, and I also
24.1 Mme LAFITTE (Comité permanent des organisations internationales non  gouvernementales) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur générai, Excellences, Mesdames,  Messieurs, je vous remercie de donner au Comité permanent des organisations non  gouvernementales la possibilité de s'exprimer ici. Comme vous le savez, les rela-  tions que les ONG entretiennent avec l'Unesco se présentent sous deux formes : une  forme bi ou multilatérale et la consultation collective. La Conférence biennale  des ONG, qui constitue un ensemble animé d'une volonté commune de travail et  d'échanges par-delà les différences, a créé, dès 1950, un organe permanent, élu  par elle et chargé de la représenter et d'instaurer, sur une base générale, une  coopération effective tant entre les ONG dans leur ensemble et l'Unesco, qu'entre  les ONG elles-mêmes, sans se substituer à l'action individuelle des ONG.
24.2 Le Comité permanent s'est réuni les 10, 13 et 14 octobre 1983 en présence  de nombreux observateurs et a examiné la question de sa contribution à la vingt-  deuxième session de la Conférence générale.
24.3 Les ONG se sont en premier lieu félicitées delamanièredontprogressentà  leurs yeux, leurs relations avec l'Unesco. Les références aux ONG se font de plus  en plus nombreuses dans les documents de l'Organisation. Un chapitre nous est con-  sacré dans le Plan à moyen terme ainsi qu'un projet de résolution dans le Projet  de programme et de budget que vous examinez.
24.4 A cet égard, permettez-moi de vous transmettre les remerciements des ONG  pour l'accueil qu'elles ont reçu à cette Conférence. Je voudrais aussi souligner  les facilités accordées aux ONG pour assurer leur participation aux débats de la  Commission I.
24.5 Nous sommes frappés par la pertinence des débats du Comité des ONG du  Conseil exécutif, par l'aide que nous apportent les secteurs et par la qualité  de l'attention et l'appui que nous porte la Section des relations avec les ONG.
24.6 Mais je dois à la vérité de dire que les ONG vous considèrent, Monsieur  le Directeur général, comme l'artisan premier de ces progrès et je ne saurais  rendre dans toute leur force la sincérité et la chaleur des propos tenus à votre  égard. Les ONG admirent la perspicacité et le courage avec lesquels vous dirigez  l'organisation. Elles tirent un immense bénéfice de votre participation à leurs  assemblées ; elles puisent un grand encouragement dans le sentiment qu'elles peu-  vent compter sur vous et elles essaient de leur côté de ne pas vous décevoir en  s'efforçant d'avoir des activités qui contribuent au mieux à la mise en oeuvre du  programme de l'Unesco. J'en donnerai quelques exemples tout à l'heure si vous le  voulez bien.
24.7 Les graves, douloureux et dangereux problèmes qui se posent au monde sont  évoqués dans cette salle par des orateurs qualifiés. Vous n'attendez certainement  pas de moi que je m'engage sur ce terrain. Mais je crois nécessaire de dire que la  raison même de l'engagement des ONG auprès de l'Unesco est le fait qu'elle partagent  et soutiennent les idéaux de l'organisation. L'enthousiasme soulevé parmi nous par  le Plan à moyen terme s'est exprimé dans le document que j'ai eu l'honneur de pré-  senter lors de la quatrième session extraordinaire de la Conférence générale. I1 y  est écrit que les ONG trouvent "ce document remarquable et d'une grande qualité",  que les ONG "apprécient la hauteur de vue des grandes orientations du Plan et la  pertinence de la problématique qui lui servent de cadre. Ce projet témoigne d'une  remarquable évolution de la pensée de l'Unesco, et d'un grand courage en un temps  aussi chargé d'incertitudes que de promesses."
24.8 Les ONG regardent le document 22 C/5 comme un début d'application du Plan  à moyen terme.
24.9 Depuis octobre 1982, nous travaillons systématiquement à la mise en oeuvre  de notre résolution sur les "moyens par lesquels les ONG peuvent contribuer à une  information et à un débat public constructif sur le programme de l'Unesco". Nous  sommes en train de rassembler les informations que les ONG nous adressent à cesujet  et qui forment un dossier vraiment impressionnant. Nous avons été encouragés à pour-  suivre dans cette voie par la présence de M. Lopes, sous-directeur général pour le  soutien du programme, à notre dernière réunion du Comité permanent et nous voulons  faire de la diffusion des publications de l'Unesco une de nos plus grandes réali-  sations. D'autant que notre correspondance avec le Conseil international de la pré-  paration à l'enseignement et certaines universités des Etats-Unis nous ont fait  toucher du doigt des possibilités encore inexploitées à cet égard.
24.10 Un autre terrain qui n'est pas entièrement exploré est celui de la prospec-  tive. Nous avons déjà dit et écrit l'intérêt que nous portons au grand programme I.  M. le Directeur général a bien voulu nous assurer que nous y aurions notre place et  que nous devions rechercher les modalités qui permettraient de l'assurer. Nous nous  y employons. J'ai été heureuse d'entendre M. Knapp, sous-directeur général pour les  études et la programmation, confirmer la volonté de l'Unesco d'associer les ONG au  réseau projeté etd'examineravec le Comité permanent la participation de la Consul-  tation collective à ce réseau.
24.11 Nous désirons lier la problématique associative à la problématique mondiale  dans son ensemble. Nous espérons que les structures envisagées par la Conférence  générale dans ce domaine tiendront compte de l'aspiration des ONG a être des par-  tenaires à tous les niveaux du processus. L'expérience montre que nous sommes  d'autant plus efficaces au plan opérationnel que nous avons été associés à l'éla-  boration des programmes. En effet, nos efforts tendent de plus en plus à déboucher  sur des actions nationales et locales qui traduisent dans la pratique tel ou tel  point précis du programme de l'Unesco. Le Comité permanent souscrit donc à ce qui  est dit à cet égard dans la déclaration commune que les ONG de jeunesse adressent  à la Conférence. Dans ce même esprit, nous avons beaucoup apprécié la tenue à  Florence, tout récemment, du Colloque sur "Les villes et la coopération au dévelop-  pement - pour une sensibilisation de la population". Ce Colloque a répondu à une  autre de nos aspirations : les ONG y étaient représentées en tant qu'experts, le  point d'application était local, et l'une des recommandations est la création de  centres de documentation et d'information qui permettent de diffuser les publica-  tions et documents de l'Unesco et de faire connaître l'action des ONG.
24.12 L'effort déployé pour que nos réflexions aboutissent au terrain pose la  question, nous semble-t-il, des rapports des ONG avec les commissions nationales  pour l'Unesco. Certes, la dernière rencontre des représentants de certaines commis-  sions nationales et d'ONG a dénoté, de l'avis de tous les participants, un progrès  certain dans nos relations. Mais il y a encore beaucoup à faire pour qu'une colla-  boration efficace se généralise. L'un des facteurs qui y contribueront est une meil-  leure connaissance des ONG. Le rapport exceptionnellement septennal du Conseil exé-  cutif sur les ONG de catégories A et B dont vous êtes saisis est à cet égard un
917    document remarquable dont les ONG apprécient hautement la qualité. Cependant, comme  j'ai pu le dire au Comité des ONG du Conseil exécutif, l'économie même du rapport  entraîne une certaine insatisfaction parmi nous. Le fait que l'un des objectifs de  ce rapport est de préciser l'utilisation des crédits accordés à des organisations  tend à réduire, par comparaison, la place donnée aux activités qui n'ont pas été  soutenues financièrement par l'Unesco. Or, ces activités entièrement bénévoles sont  de loin les plus nombreuses : elles portent sur tous les aspects du programme de  l'Unesco et sur la mise en oeuvre de ses idéaux. I1 nous semble que ce rapport serait  plus représentatif de l'action de toutes les ONG s'il était équilibré autrement. Nous  somnes toutefois heureux de noter que, dans le projet de résolution proposé par le  Conseil exécutif à l'issue de l'examen du rapport septennal, il est dit : "La Confé-  rence générale remercie les nombreuses organisations non gouvernementales qui, bien  que n'ayant bénéficié d'aucune aide financière de l'Unesco, ont néanmoins contribué  par leurs moyens propres à faire connaître les idéaux et à favoriser la réalisation  des objectifs de l'Organisation."
24.13 Les ONG sont bien entendu conscientes du travail supplémentaire que crée  pour le Secrétariat la mention de cette contribution des ONG ne bénéficiant d'au-  cune aide financière. Cela nous amène à évoquer une question qui se pose à nous  avec de plus en plus d'insistance. I1 est recommandé dans le document 22 C/5, de  manière générale et à propos d'une série de domaines précis, un développement des  relations de travail Unesco/ONG : la consultation collective, de son côté, suit  une orientation qui se traduit par un accroissement des demandes faites aux sec-  teurs et à la Section des relations avec les ONG : le nombre d'ONG en relation avec  l'Unesco a augmenté considérablement et continue d'augmenter. Ces phénomènes sont  encourageants, mais pourront-ils trouver leur plein épanouissement sans qu'augmentent  les moyens dont dispose le Secrétariat pour l'exécution des multiples tâches pré-  vues dans le Projet de programme et de budget de l'Organisation pour 1984-1985 ?  I1 serait vraiment dommage que les perspectives qui s'ouvrent devant nous se voiefit  bloquées par manque de crédits et de moyens en personnel.
24.14 Si vous le permettez, je donnerai maintenant un aperçu du programme mis  en oeuvre par le Comité permanent depuis la vingt et unième session de la Confé-  rence générale de l'Unesco.
24.15 En novembre 1981 a eu lieu un colloque sur l'Année internationale des per-  sonnes handicapées : en novembre 1982, un colloque sur la communication culturelle :  messages des médias (radio et télévision) : en mars 1983, s'est déroulée une ren-  contre sur la science et la technique au service du développement : rôle de l'in-  formation scientifique et technique : utilisation des résultats de la science. Nous  venons aussi de tenir un colloque très réussi sur le thème Alphabétisation - Edu-  cation - Sauvegarde des cultures qui s'inspirait largement de l'esprit de la Confé-  rence MONDIACULT. I1 a été bien suivi par de nombreux représentants des pays et  des milieux sociaux qui vivent ces problèmes de la manière la plus aiguë et l'échange  de vues entre les représentants du Secrétariat et les participants a été remarqua-  blement libre et fructueux.
24.16 Dans le même temps fonctionnement des groupes de réflexion et de travail en  étroite coopération avec les secteurs de l'Unesco, et même en association dans cer-  tains cas, tel le groupe sur l'éducation pour la promotion, l'application et la dé-  fense des droits de l'homme. Le Groupe de travail sur la lutte contre le racismeet  les préjugés raciaux a re.mis à l'Unesco un document à l'intention de la réunion  d'experts qui s'est tenue à Lisbonne du 14 au 17 juin 1982. Le Groupe de travail  et de réflexion sur les corrélations entre l'éducation, le désarmement, la paix,  les droits de l'homme, le nouvel ordre économique, socical et culturel internatio-  nal a présenté à la Conférence intergouvernementale sur l'éducation pour la compré-  hension, la coopération et la paix internationales et l'éducation relative aux droits  de l'homme et aux libertés fondamentales en vue de développer un état d'esprit favo-  rable au renforcement de la sécurité et au désarmement, qui s'est tenue ici en avril
1983, un document qui a été remis à tous les participants.
24.17 Nous avons bien entendu une instance de réflexion sur la condition de la  femme qui prépare une contribution à la Conférence mondiale qui clôturera la Décen-  nie de la femme. Enfin, les ONG participent au séminaire organisé par la Consulta-  tion collective des ONG de jeunesse et se préparent à célébrer l'Année internatio-  nale de la jeunesse en 1985.
24.18 Je n'ai pas voulu, Monsieur le Président, abuser de votre bienveillance en  retenant plus longtemps votre attention. Je vous transmets les voeux ardents des  ONG pour le succès de la vingt-deuxième session de la Conférence générale qui se  tient dans une période ou l'humanité a plus que jamais besoin de l'Unesco.
(25. i) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  governmental Organizations.
(25.2) I now give the floor to Mr Darre11 Rolle, Minister of Education and head of the  delegation of the Bahamas.  I thank the representative of the Standing Committee of International Non-
26.1 Mr ROLLE (Bahamas) :  by warmly congratulating you, Mr President, on your unanimous election to the  Presidency of this twenty-second session of the General Conference. It is a fit-  ting tribute to you personally and to your country. You have already demonstrated  your enormous capacity for leadership, and your skills and wide knowledge of  Unesco matters and world affairs are well known and acknowledged by all concerned;  I have no doubt that these qualities will assist you tremendously as you preside  over our deliberations. Please be assured, Sir, of the full support and co-  operation of my delegation.
26.2 My delegation also wishes to record its appreciation to the Director-  General for the superb manner in which he has led this Organization, and particu-  larly for his brilliant introduction to the general policy debate. I am particu-  larly pleased to note that he has successfully incorporated most of the programmes  for the next biennium which are important to the Bahamas, and I wish to assure him  of our continued support and co-operation.
26.3 Mr President, permit me to take this opportunity to welcome all new members  to the Organization. I wish especially to welcome St. Vincent and the Grenadines,  St. Christopher and Nevis and the Netherlands Antilles. We are sure that their  presence among us will introduce a new dynamism to the Latin American and Caribbean  Group in general, and to the Caribbean subgroup in particular.
26.4 It is our view, Mr President, that the draft programme and budget which  form the basis of much of the work of this General Conference deserve the praise  which they have attracted, and I would wish to associate the Government of the  Bahamas with these sentiments. Document 22 C/5 has, Mr President, made a good deal  of sense of much of the earlier work of Unesco. It prescribes appropriate linkages  with the major policies of almost every State in the fields of education, science  and cultural development. Firmly linked to history and to the realities of today's  world, the plan offers much promise for the continued steady progress of the Organ-  ization, and of a great deal of mankind.
26.5 Mr President, a principal theme which runs through the draft programme and  budget is the imperative to provide lifelong preparation for productive lives for  the people whom we represent here. This is particularly important to the develop-  ing countries, of which the Bahamas is one. The theme quite rightly focuses on  the majority, who are also the poorer. This emphasis, I believe, coincides with  the great challenges to mankind, or - on the obverse side - with the great fears  of mankind. We have to cope with the many, the majority, the disadvantaged, the  poor ... those with little or no hope, and it is our responsibility to find and to  propose a realistic solution to their plight. We are told that what is new is not  the problem itself, but the larger scale, the larger dimension of contemporary  issues; if we are not stout-hearted and courageous in facing them and in seeking  solutions, we may allow ourselves to be overwhelmed by them.
26.6 We who are here believe that we do not have to be overwhelmed by our fears  and our hopes. We are determined to take action, and to do so on a world scale.  At the same time, action has to be meaningful, especially for the large and the  small groupings of the poorest, who have been especially singled out in the major  programmes of the draft programme and budget. It is because this is so that the  general policy debate is proving to be so useful to the participants in this meet-  ing, as are the deliberations in the various commissions. And pre-eminent among  what is promised by this Conference, is the intention to project into the future  the knowledge and the wisdom that flows from our present policy consensus. When  all is said and done, Mr President, we cannot forget that we still expend perhaps  too much time and energy on the restatement of old problems and old solutions  without prescribing and following up appropriate actions. We are novices in the  cause of effecting genuine amelioration of the conditions and the prospects of the  very people we intend most to serve. We need continuously to review global con-  structs by interpreting them against the reality of our regional and national set-  tings. I believe that this is particularly the case with such matters as the  attainment of human rights, peace, desirable climates of opinion, the objectives  of the new international economic order and friendship and reciprocal understand-  ing among all people of the world.  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, may I begin
26.7 Mr President, I believe that there has emerged over the past three and a  half decades the outline of an approach to a new world order based on more realis-  tic value systems (or a more appropriate interpretation of tried and true values).  We no longer try to build a new world order, an order for large masses of people,  based on the ideas, systems and institutions which classical and élitist concepts  of societies evolved. We no longer force our universities to serve every man and  every man's wishes. We have sharpened our evaluation of the secondary level of  education, and are increasingly more genuinely concerned that the point and pur-  pose at this level are to educate people, and to provide them with the basis on  which they can engage in productive work, thereby improving individual well-being:  thus, to respond to national, regional and international concern for food, for  human rights, for peace and for the cultivation of the range of opinion which  seems to be so important for our individual life-style, we must continue to per-  severe in the pursuit of our goals. This approach is as richly appropriate for  mankind at this time as the medieval traditions of education appeared to be for  pre-industrial Western civilization. It follows that the first level of education  must prepare for the second: and that the second and the third levels continually  inform and enrich every aspect of productive work and life.
26.8 Mr President, I consequently applaud that interpretation of the objectives  of the new international economic order which carries major but clear implications  for the educational and cultural policies which concern most of the world's people.  These policies call for life-long education and training, together with specific,  relevant programmes of research, the preparation of instructors, and the inculca-  tion of positive and appropriate attitudes. These policies render more urgent the  absolute necessity for literacy, including especially the methodology and the con-  tent that help to prevent lapses into illiteracy, and which positively promote  appropriate kinds of literacy for most of the world. This must be a part and par-  cel of the concept of skilled training and retraining, with particular attention  to the agricultural and the rural, as well as the masses of the urban poor. We  must never forget that Unesco, more than any other organization, holds a promise,  a hope, for them. Our plans call for major reorganization, for major reorienta-  tion, for nothing short of preparation for the extension of public order and well-  being for all.
26.9 This is particularly so in maritime States, and in States which continue  to be essentially rural in economic terms. Traditional organization and methods  are known to be increasingly ineffective. Much more, rather than less, training  in educational planning and educational management will be called for. The best  and the newest in information systems have to go where they can best be effective -  and thus perhaps to areas where States are unable to afford them. But it is never-  theless the challenge that faces mankind. And it will probably be in the interest  of the rich and the powerful to begin to set this information system in place now,  in the interests of mankind and of the world. This will require a continuation of  sectoral studies, accurate and updated data bafiks, and a very wide and widely  affordable applications of the concept of distance communication.
26.10 Mr President, productive work and productive living for the people of the  world is really what we are all concerned with. It is a lot to ask, yet, we can-  not ask for less. This overall objective not only binds our common efforts, but  it also promises to lead the way for the most appropriate futuristic-oriented  studies, and provides a key to the solution of the major world problems which we  have been invited to discuss during the general policy debate.
26.11 Accordingly, Mr President, my delegation welcomes the approaches outlined  in Major Programme II, for they identify the major focus of the educational system  of the Bahamas. If Unesco is to realize its tremendous potential as the best hope  for the liberation of mankind from ignorance, poverty and neglect, then education  for all must underpin all of our developmental efforts.
26.12 Mr President, the Caribbean subregion enjoys a unique cultural heritage.  Individually, our countries are rich in culture which should be shared with all  mankind. We therefore welcome the initiative taken by the Director-General in the  area of cultural development. It is with this in mind that we hope that, as part  of the process of decentralization of Unesco's activities, favourable considera-  tion will be given to the establishment of an adequately staffed cultural division  of the Caribbean subregional office. We also hope that when Unesco's funds are  earmarked in our region, the principle of equitable distribution will be implemented  and fully realized.
26.13 Mr President, the Bahamas is a nation of young people: more than 70 per  cent of our people are under the age of 30. We therefore welcome the initiatives  outlined to involve our youth in the process of development. They are the future  and so it behoves us to prepare thea adequately for greater national involvement.  The fact that the young people will determine the kind of world in which we will  be senior citizens clearly demonstrates the course of action which we must now take
920    Similarly, Mr President, we welcome the programmes outlined to incorporate women  fully in the developmental process in our societies,
26.14 Mr President, since 1962, when the first Caribbean State became a member of  Unesco, many States,. including my own, have achieved national independence and  membership in this body. At this very Conference, two more have become members and  another an Associate Member. It is clear, therefore, that the principle of equit-  able distribution in the various organs of Unesco should be reflected in increasing  participation on the part of Caribbean States. That principle must also be applied  in the allocation of resources to the region.
26.15 In conclusion, Mr President, I wish to make some brief remarks on the situ-  ation in Grenada. The Bahamas, with its long tradition of parliamentary democracy,  could not accept the method by which the Revolutionary Government of Grenada came  to power in 1979, nor do we condone the recent violent overthrow of the Bishop  government. However, in our approach to this matter at the rr.eeting of CARICOM  Heads of Government, we were guided by the internationally acclaimed principle of  non-intervention. Accordingly, we did not support the intervention in Grenada.  We are opposed to the use or the threat of the .use of force as a first step in the  settlement of international disputes. We are pleased to note, however, Mr Presi-  dent, that recent press reports indicate that the situation in Grenada is beginning  to return to normalcy, and we hope that a Comnonwealth security force will soon be  established on the island, so that the people of Grenada can set about the recon-  struction of their country and the formation of a government free from external  interference.
26.16 In conclusion, it is our affirmed hope, Mr President, that these diccus-  sions and the deliberations at the General Conference will be blessed by construc-  tive thought and that at the end of the session we shall have arrived at a conclu-  sion beneficial to the progress and development of mankind as a whole. I thank you.  . &il& .d >-,+. &>d3 .+>Y¡ +I ö a ~ e .  '-1 vil YV>T
(27.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  the Bahamas for his remarks, and I should also like to thank him in my own name for his  kind words of congratulation.
(27.2) I now give the floor to Mr Luis Felipe Alarco, Ambassador and head of the delega-  tion of Peru.  On behalf of all those present I should like to thank the head of the delegation of
(28.1) Mr ALARCO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish) :  Mr President, Mr Representative of the Director-General, distinguished delegates,  ladies and gentlemen, like the preceding speakers may I congratulate you on your election  as President of our Conference. I also congratulate the Director-General on the excellent  work carried out in preparing for the Conference. I should further like to welcome the  new member countries to Unesco.
(28.2) One of the subjects dealt with which are of interest to the Third Worlù countries, 17  including Peru, is that of cultural identity. The benefits of civilization are obvious  when set against backwardness, poverty and ignorance. Its achievements have meant well-  being for the most advanced nations. On the one side there seems to be everything which,  to a greater or lesser degree, stands for advancement and progress, and on the other that  which is regional and vernacular, associated with primitiveness and poverty. Hence the  tendency to underrate anything that is indigenous.
(28.3) We live under the sway of the age of technology and mass production. There is a  tendency for inhabitants of large cities to resemble one another, even down to their cloth-  ing. The industrial society is creating a new type of person. Factories, bureaucracy,  offices and public institutions, with their fixed timetables and requirements of punctual-  ity, discipline and efficiency, are generating a common life-style. In the least devel-  oped countries, this often leads to the emergence of an aggressive cultural campaign  launched in the name of development, spearheaded by the State and supported by schools and  universities, newspapers and magazines, the radio and television. Associated with this  campaign is a tendency to regard what is most distinctive in these countries with contempt,  and this attitude affects the poorest sectors of the population who come to consider their  traditions as something of an embarrassment, to be disdained. Modern civilization has con-  centrated too much on the mass approach and has reduced everything to the same level. The  steady encroachment of large cities is taking its toll of small communities, so full of  character. The large is prevailing over the small and quantity over quality. The effect  is soul-destroying. When this effect is felt among the ruling classes, the trumpets of war  are sounded and there is growing anxiety among the public about the possible extermination  of 1.ife on earth. It happens that village-dwellers, steeped in the colourful traditions of  their home environment, are subjected to a civilization foreign to them, that of cosmopoli-  tan city life. Their lives become distorted by the imposition of models which are not their  own and are contrary to their age-old habits. This leads to a situation of conflict which  must be resolved. A balance must be struck between two alternatives: affirming one's own  identity without renouncing any opportunities for a higher standard of living. It is  through the practical aspects of life that peoples become aware of themselves. Public  works carried out by the State with the use of technicians from the city do bring material  benefits but fail to strike any chord of sympathy and lead to alienation.
(28.4)  munity activities to remedy it. It is only through self-inspired action that one can con-  trol one's own destiny. It is through action which draws inspiration from the past and is  directed towards the future that man can create and be re-created. Otherwise he will be  moving forward in an alienated and foreign world. There are, however, fewer and fewer iso-  lated communities. The course of history is bringing all parts of the world ever closer  together. There is a tendency for technology and intercommunication to take over. It is  an irreversible trend which cannot and should not be arrested.
(28.5) Peru is a centre of two cultures, autochthonous and Western culture, which over the  centuries have to some extent merged, in a process that is still evolving. In the Andean  region, particularly in the agricultural sector, old traditions subsist. In the cities  along the coast, Western culture prevails. The main characteristic is the massive migra-  tion from the countryside to the cities, where the process of transculturation is most  marked, assuming unforeseen forms. The people from the country have to adjust to an indus-  trial or commercial environment and submit to the pace of life this entails. They find it  difficult to retain their identity in a hostile urban environment. They are exposed to  ridicule, even for the way they speak, express themselves or dress. 'School has a deliber-  ately standardizing influence on their children, uprooting them from their traditions.  They have to learn to speak like city people. Among the young people, folk dancing has to  be put aside for the dances that are in fashion in all the cities of the world. Vernacu-  lar languages die out and a common language is imposed, the natiopsl language - the  language that will unify the people and introduce them to the cultural legacy of mankind.
(28.6) However, even in the city, synthesis is possible provided that its importance is  realized. In school, everything that is an authentic expression of folk culture should be  cultivated, particularly in areas where most of the children are from the provinces: poems,  songs, dances, puppets, the adaptation of folk tales as plays, children's theatre activi-  ties, crafts. In accordance with contemporary trends in teaching, education should be  seen as a way of stimulating creativity and not just as a means of imparting the kind of  knowledge which often has no bearing on the children's vital interests.
(28.7) Universities should contribute to an awareness of what national reality actually  constitutes. There are countless tasks ahead. It is absolutely necessary to take stock  of existing traditions, especially in places where they are in danger of dying out, and  to record stories and poems, rites and games, songs and dances, with the use of the radio  and film among other means. This has all been said many times before. It is not ideas  which are lacking, but financial resources. I believe that the possibility might be  explored of enlisting the co-operation of universities in the industrially advanced coun-  tries for this campaign.
(28.8) There is also a great deal to be done with regard to the heritage of cultural prop-  erty. Peru is rich in archaeological remains and historical monuments, which are not  infrequently threatened by road-building, urban development or irrigation projects. It  also happens that new archaeological finds immediately fall prey to pillagers who see these  treasures merely as marketable commodities, to be sold in the country or abroad. The coun-  try is being plundered. Its most ancient cultural heritage, and that of its colonial  churches, seems doomed to fall into the hands of collectors in the most wealthy countries;  hence the need for museums where our cultural property can be kept safely. Some of our  beautiful old colonial dwellings have been reduced to hovels, some are in ruins, and need  restoring and possibly converting into museums, hotels, banks or government offices so  that they can be maintained.
(28.9) All these matters affect the nations of the Third World to a greater or lesser  degree. And it is here, in Unesco, that they can be most usefully discussed. Thank you  Mr President.  In Peru this situation has not gone unnoticed and support has been given to com-    (Ms Skard, Norway, took the Chair)
29. The PRESIDENT :  Said Musa, Minister of Education, Sports and Culture, head of the delegation of  Belize.  I thank the head of the delegation of Peru, and I now call on H.E. The Hon.
30.1 Mr MUSA (Belize) :  gentlemen, the Belize delegation has been highly impressed by the very able and  even-handed manner in which Mr Tell has been conducting these proceedings. We  congratulate him on his well-deserved election. May I also take this opportunity  of expressing our sincere thanks to the Director-General, the Secretariat and the  members of the Executive Board for producing a realistic, practical, yet comprehen-  sive draft programme and budget for the coming biennium.
30.2 Madam President, although a new member of the organization, Belize has  already begun to feel the beneficial impact of its membership. The work of this  great Organization, dedicated to the spread of knowledge in the service of human-  ity, which has - as one of its fundamental tenets - the recognition that the wide  diffusion of culture and the education of all peoples for justice, freedom and  peace are indispensable to the dignity of the human person, is a source of great  inspiration to the young independent nation of Belize.
30.3 The cynic may tell us that such ideals and noble aspirations are for the  young and the romantic; that many adults only pay lip-service to pious declara-  tions; that we need only examine the reality of a world filled with fear, sus-  picion, hatred, selfishness, prejudice and violence: nations squandering billions  on weapons of destruction - in the name of peace; armed intervention and blatant  interference in affairs of other nations - in the name of freedom. And, indeed,  Madam Pïesident, there is a dangeroüs tendency to use force and to apply Eilitar 4 7  solutions against the small, the weak and the defenceless.
30.4 The English writer, Bernard Shaw, summed it up well when he said, 'Youth  is wasted on the young', to which I would only add: how much better it would be  if the pure and idealistic minds of children could be transplanted into the minds  of adults, particularly some generals and politicians.
30.5 Madam President, I should like to avail myself of this opportunity of shar-  ing some of our thoughts from the Belize perspective, as they relate to the fields  of competence of Unesco in education, culture, science and technology.
30.6 Our national education policy goals may be summed up as follows: to pro-  ceed cautiously but with determination in developing our programme for pre-school  education , with emphasis on community pre-school centres; to provide primary-  school education of high quality for all children within the statutory school age:  to integrate the world of study with the world of work, by placing special empha-  sis on technical, vocational and agricultural training; to make physical education  and sport a part of the school's curricula; to establish a programme for the sup-  ply and production of relevant and appropriate textbooks and other teaching aids;  to restructure the administration, managenent and planning of the educational sys-  tem so as to ensure greater involvement of all sections of the community and  balanced growth between the rural and urban areas; to expand our post-secondary  education with the development of the Belize College of Arts, Science and Tech-  nology; to give due attention to teachers as the foundation of the education sys-  tem, especially with regard to their working and living conditions and to the  calibre and orientation of teacher education programmes; to give increasing atten-  tion to the development of an effective policy of non-formal education with an  emphasis of education for productive work; and, finally, as an overriding policy  goal in our new educational system - the nurturing of critical awareness, national  consciousness, a Belizean identity and self-reliance.
30.7 With these objectives in mind, we fully support the programmes of Unesco.  In particular, we consider the Major Project in the Field of Education for Latin  America and the Caribbean to be of the utmost importance, and endorse the Mexico  City Declaration on Cultural Policies, together with the recommendations adopted  by the World Conference on Cultural Policies.
30.8 Madam President, at the heart of the major project on education are the  eradication of illiteracy and the provision of relevant education for our children.  One such relevant programme presently ongoing in Belize is REAP, that is to say,  ' Relevant Education for Agriculture and Production' .
30.9 The target population consists of our primary-school children, who are  given an early orientation to the land and to agriculture - farming being the main-  stay of the Belizean economy. The REAP project is a flexible model which can be  Madam President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and
924    moulded to transmit knowledge, skills and attitudes in a variety of practical sub- 17  jects - food processing, wood-carving, producer co-operatives, health, nutrition  and environmental studies.
30.10 We are faced with several practical constraints in this project, not the  least of which is the limited availability of tools and equipment. We are, how-  ever, fully committed to the project, for we regard it as one of the most innova-  tive and exciting prograrmes in our educational system.
30.11 Madam President, permit me now to comment briefly on a few regional proj-  ects which are of great interest to Belize.
30.12 One is the 'Removal of language barriers' projects jointly sponsored by  the Government of the Netherlands Antilles and CDCC. Belize has already shown its  interest in this project, and we intend to participate in the follow-up action.  We welcome the contribution of Unesco in this area.
30.13 Because of its language mix and geographical position, Belize is ideally  located for the establishment of an English/Spanish language centre dedicated to  the removal of the barriers between the English-speaking Caribbean and our Spanish-  speaking neighbours.
30.14 We also note with interest the related proposal for case-studies on national  languages and mother tongues, and would wish to be involved.
30.15 We also support regional efforts in the Caribbean to improve our respective  planning capabilities in the Ministry of Education, to apply appropriate technolo-  gies, to establish national information systems, to look into the whole new world  of computer science, to carry out relevant research in the social sciences, and  generally to improve our management capabilities.
30.16 Madam President, the action programmes for the preservation and presenta-  tion of the cultural heritage are of vital concern to Belize, for we recognize that  a people's culture is a vital instrument for the preservation of sovereignty and a  tremendous motivating force on the road to true development.
30.17 Belize possesses some of the finest ancient Mayan archaeological monuments  in Central America. We are in need of technical and financial assistance to recon-  struct and preserve this heritage.
30.18 In addition, there is an abundance of fine artefacts. These, together with  the many objects, documents, records and cultural works of art of our entire his-  tory as well as the richness of our flora and fauna, make it imperative to build a  national museum.
30.19 May I take the opportunity to launch an appeal to the international com-  munity to co-operate with us in the building of this museum - a museum which will  not be a collection of dead fossils of the past but a dynam-ic and living monument,  a didactic museum where our children will go to learn to appreciate their cultural  heritage and to be inspired.
30.20 The high technology in information has made our planet a global village.  The chairman and members of the village council, however, are those who control  and master this technology. In Belize today, we experience the phenomenon of hav-  ing direct United States satellite television broadcasts in our homes twenty-four  hours a day. This explosion of television and its cultural implications is thrust-  ing upon Belizeans an awareness of the opportunities presented, while at the same  time challenging us with an urgent responsibility to ensure the integrity of our  culture and way of life, and to march forward to development.
30.21 Madam President, a nation moves forward as a result of the competence,  enthusiasm and diligence of the people. There is no substitute for hard work, and  we cannot abdicate our primary obligation as a people to achieve development by our  own efforts.
30.22 None of us, however, can do this alone, least of all the poor Third World  countries emerging from centuries of exploitation and domination. International  co-operation based on mutual respect, the dignity and spiritual worth of the human  personality are vital and possible. In the words of our distinguished Director-  General, 'The world of today possesses the intellectual, scientific, technical and  political resources it needs to solve the many problems facing it. The founda-  tions have been laid for co-operation in the long-term interests of all peoples.  All that is lacking is the genuine, sincere, unswerving will that human solidarity  shall at last prevail over selfishness, prejudice and suspicion; that international  reason shall outweigh local interests and that worldwide harmony shall replace the  clamour of competing voices and the growing clash of arms'.
30.23 Fel.10~ delegates, I understand that the first name of the President of our  Conference, 'Said', means in Arabic, 'the dawn of happiness'. After the many years  of great anxiety, suffering and growing despair in our times, may the fact of his  presidency of this session herald the dawn of a happy, new and progressive civili-  zation for all humanity.
30.24 I thank you all for your attention.
31. The PRESIDENT:  Roakeina, deputy head of the delegation of Papua New Guinea.
32.1 Mr ROAKEINA (Papua New Guinea) :  gates, my delegation joins all the preceding speakers in congratulating Mr Said  Tell on his election as President of the twenty-second session of the Unesco  General Conference. I bring with me, on behalf of my Prime Minister, the Rt. Hon.  Michael Somare and the people of Papua New Guinea, our warmest greetings to one  and all on this important occasion. It is a great privilege and pleasure to be  addressing you here today. Madam President, you will note that I said 'I bring  warmest greetings'. Literally speaking, I come from a country that is always warm.  In this regard, I am sure that the Pacific nations represented here would undoubt-  edly share with me the following remark. Our subregion of the Asia and Pacific  region of Unesco, and particularly n?y country, is proud of the warmth and friendli-  ness we radiate to our visitors with the bright sunshine, blue skies, ever clear  coral reefs and romantic, blue unpolluted lagoons of the great Pacific. Those  nations whose shores are washed and cleansed by the Pacific, in particular the  South Pacific, enjoy freedom and democracy most meaningfully. It is our hope that  peace on earth will follow the pattern set by the tiny Pacific nations.
32.2 When Magellan, the Portuguese navigator and explorer, sailed into this  area previously unknown to Europeans he was surprised to find none of the harsh  conditions that he had endured in other oceans. Island after island, he enjoyed  the serenity and calmness of the environment, and so he called it 'Pacific'. This  environment still exists, except for the major disruption during the Second World  War and a certain amount of sea and air pollution caused by outsiders. It is the  dream of my country, and I hope for the endorsement of this dream by many Pacific  nations, that the imposed pollution will come to an end sooner than is anticipated  by those who cause it.
32.3 By world standards, in terms of land mass and population size, many of us  in the Pacific are very small island nations, some of which are a tiny speck on  the map. Many of you, most probably, find it hard to locate them on the map of  the world. Some of our island nations have a population of only 50,000, the popu-  lation of a small town in many Member States of Unesco. Nevertheless we exist, as  an integral part of this world community, peacefully in the ever bright sunshine  and beside unpolluted coral reefs, bountifully blessed by mother nature and the  few hands that we have.  I thank the head of the delegation of Belize, and I now call on Mr Geno  Madam President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies and distinguished dele-
32.4 In painting the above picture for those of you who have not been to the  Pacific, Papua New Guinea would wish to join Unesco's fundamental philosophy of  promoting peaceful coexistence of the peoples of this beautiful, bountiful world.  This is done, we hope, through the respective Member nations' policies and pro-  grammes of education, science and culture. It is Papua New Guinea's belief, as  enshrined in her National Constitution, that mankind's freedom is an ultimate aim  of all human endeavours. In making this statement, Papua New Guinea joins with  the rest of the world community in the United Nations in believing that education  is a human right. Papua New Guinea also accepts resolution 2/02 adopted by the  General Conference at its fourth extraordinary session on Major Programme II, 'Edu  cation for all'. Education opens up the minds of men and women and frees them  from ignorance. Progress in human endeavours is not possible without the develop-  ment of men and women through education. The right to education transcends the  political systems of any groups or nations. Even more, Madam President, the  achievement of freedom and the democratic process in all human endeavours is an  integral part of development. Education for all, and I quote from the Draft Pro-  gramme and Budget for 1984-1985, 'should constitute a source of inspiration and  action for the development of education in Member States and Ithas/ it should be  placed within the context of lifelong education, combining the various types and  forms of education, both formal and non-formal, including initial and further  training'.
32.5 Papua New Guinea, recognizing that education is a human right, has framed  its educational policies to reflect this. Its policy for social development is  therefore to share out what little wealth it has, as fairly as possible, giving  preference to those who are in the disadvantaged provinces, to achieve universal
926    primary education in 1990 or thereabouts, to establish new high schools in educa- 17  tionally disadvantaged provinces of the nation and to maintain quality education  at all levels.
32.6 The policy for achieving equity in all areas of human development has been  and continues to be pursued vigorously by Papua New Guinea since independence was  gained in 1975. Development in political, social and economic areas has been pur-  sued under a policy of a balanced framework for the whole country. This balanced  development framework has been provided for in the Papua New Guinea Constitution.  We are proud of the democratic principles of our government based on the Westminster  system of government. Democracy is highly treasured by our people because we  strongly believe in the rights of the individual and the rights of the societies  which make up Papua New Guinea. Similarly, every nation must be given the right to  exist within the collective world community. Freedom and democracy in a nation  must be all too precious for all of us as we coexist interdependently and co-  operatively in developing political, social and economic activities with the rest  of the world community, guarding and guaranteeing the survival of mankind on this  conflict-torn but most precious planet of ours.
32.7 It is believed that wars begin in the minds of men. The education of men's  minds towards the peaceful coexistence of mankind is therefore an absolute neces-  sity to prevent the destruction of mankind through scientific endeavours. Science  has brought bountiful achievements to mankind. It is not so long ago that men in  Europe feared to sail beyond the shores of Europe and Africa, and thereby made  islands such as mine a 'theoretical dream'. Science and technology have brought  islands such as mine within reach of Europe in a rmtter of hours. Similarly  science and technology have taught man to see and better understand his own society  and the societies of others , through the voluminous amount of information available  through radio and television.
32.8 Madam President, my island is no longer isolated from your country; no  longer can Papua New Guinea independently develop its human and non-human resources  without first glancing at what everyone else in the world community is doing. This  brings more than ever before, a great degree of social and economic interdependence  to Papua New Guinea with all of those gathered here. In saying this, it is our  belief, and I am sure this is shared by all Member States, that it is not the size  of a nation that determines the amount of respect which is accorded to it or its  right to exist as an independent nation. I should like to urge all delegations,  in considering document 22 C/5, to give equal attention to all member nations  irrespective of their size and rate of development. However, I should like to join  the developing countries in their plea for more attention to be given to them so  that the objective of education for all before this General Conference may be  realized. Every nation must be honoured and held in esteem by every other.
32.9 I have already observed that science and technology have made bowtiful  achievements available to man. It is our belief and our hope that man will not use  science and technology for self-destruction. In effect we see from the Pacific  that man is creating from the appropriate bodies of knowledge in science and tech-  nology the possibility of his total destruction. The question is: what is the  future of man on this beautiful planet of ours? The future of man depends on man  alone.
32.10 While individual societies must continue to coexist, a certain amount of  individualism is also to be found. All of us gathered here in this General Confer-  ence have separate identities. For example, some of us are wearing traditional  dress, while others like the delegation of Papua New Guinea have taken on other  people's attire simply because, if we came in our traditional dress, we would all  freeze to death here in Paris and miss this Conference session - or perhaps it is  you who would miss us! The point here is that the promotion of the cultural iden-  tity of each one of us is an essential past of our 'labels'. In Papua New Guinea,  we believe that a man's culture is an integral part of his existence and well-  being. Madam President, imagine if every one of us in this room were culturally  'empty' - what a bore that would be! Life is meaningless without the culture  of man.
32.11 Three years before independence, Papua New Guinea established the National  Cultural Council to preserve, promote and develop the cultural activities of our  people. While we have moved forward into modernization, we have also kept the  noble traditions of our forefathers. I am proud to announce that the Preamble of  my country's Nations.1 Constitution states that 'We the people of Papua New Guinea  pledge ourselves to guard and pass on to those who come after us our noble tradi-  tions and the Christian principles that are ours now'. This is a guarantee that  cultural development is an integral part of human development.
32.12 I am also pleased to announce that Unesco has been instrumental in setting  up some of our cultural programmes, both in my country and in the Pacific in
927    general. %me oral traditions of our people have been recorded (and are being and  will be recorded) for the benefit of future generations, and Unesco has played an  effective part in these programmes. The General Conference may recall that it  appealed to Unesco in 1978 to assist in meeting the cost of the Third South Pacific  Festival of Arts, a regional programme to foster and promote the cultural develop-  ment of the people of the Pacific. I must add, with a certain amount of pride,  that it was my present Prime Minister, the Rt. Hon. Michael Somare, who initiated  the staging of this great undertaking in my country. Unesco kindly assisted in the  Festival, which was a great success, while the people of my country, citizens and  non-citizens, private enterprises and government departments, men, women and  children made generous, financial contributions. Madam President, permit me to  introduce the man who directed this large and complex undertaking: he is Mr Mali  Voi, who comes from a humble and simple village background into the competitive  international scene. The Director-General and many delegations from the Member  States of Asia and the Pacific were present to witness the colourful display of  Pacific arts and culture. It is our hope, and I believe that this hope is shared  by France, Australia, New Zealand, Western Samoa, the Kingdom of Tonga, Fiji and  the Member States of Asia, that Unesco will continue to show its interest in the  Festival of Pacific Arts. The Festival is held once every four years and the  next one will be staged in New Caledonia in December 1984. It is also hoped that  Unesco will continue to assist the cultural programmes of Papua New Guinea.
32.13 In the area of culture, Papua New Guinea fully endorses and supports the  cultural development activities and cultural policies agreed to in the Mexico City  Declaration. In this context, Papua New Guinea has taken steps to develop cul-  tural programmes for the effective participation of as many people as possible  within the limits of its financial resources. To encourage cultural participation,  the Papua New Guinea Government has earmarked in its annual budget funds to hold  the Papua New Guinea Festival of Arts biannually.
32.14 It is now proposed in the Five-Year Cultural Development Plan that village-  based cottage industries be established, and that Village Arts, the business arm  of the National Cultural Council, should purchase on a co-operative basis the works  of artists, craftsmen and writers. The basic idea of this move is to continue to  encourage the practice of such skills in the areas concerned and to provide a cash  income to rural village dwellers.
32.15 The National Cultural Council intends to look at the place of literature  and encourage Papua New Guinean writers to record the oral traditions of our people  before they are lost. At the same time, our writers will be encouraged to examine  contemporary developmental issues and write about them for the benefit of our  decision-makers with a view to helping to shape the nation's long-term destiny,  thus further improving the quality of life for the benefit of those who come after  us. In this regard it is our hope that Unesco will continue to assist us through  the participation programme.
32.16 The dissemination of information on a fair but unbiased basis should be a  major aim of any journalist. The activities of any government or opposition party  (for those of us who have party systems in our countries) must be given fair atten-  tion by the professional journalist. In stating this I should mention that Papua  New Guinea enjoys freedom of the press and that freedom of expression is guaranteed  to us by the National Constitution. Any individual or group may publicly state his  opinions on any issues ranging from those of national importance to more mundane  ones. This is especially important in my country, since the majority of our people  still live in rural villages and must be given information that will assist them  to improve their lives in our changing society. In order to bring such informa-  tion to these villages, Papua New Guinea has already established a radio network  throughout all provinces. This bold step was taken to ensure that our people are  governed against a background not of ignorance but of knowledge. It is the inten-  tion of the present government to upgrade the quality of radio broadcasting so that  the people who live in the scattered islands, the inner valleys of the highlands  and the sprawling plains of the coastal areas receive information on initiatives  and issues of national concern. In this way the individual can exercise his demo-  cratic rights fully when ballot papers are cast during elections. To upgrade the  existing broadcasting facilities we intend to establish high frequency facilities  to serve the nation better. In this regard Papua New Guinea looks towards Unesco,  in its appropriate programmes, for some financial assistance in line with the  Organization's strategic objectives of improving access to information and achiev-  ing universal literacy by 1990. My country depends heavily on an extensive radio  network, which is used a great deal by the formal and non-formal education services  and by general services for the public at large.
32.17 The Papua New Guinea delegation has prepared a country paper in which fur-  ther details of the issues that I have raised under the four main areas may be  found. It is our hope that distinguished delegates take just a little portion of  their time to read it so as to appreciate further our situation in Papua New Guinea.
928    My government fully recognizes the contribution Unesco has made so far and has  therefore approved the establishment of a Papua New Guinea National Commission for  Unes CO.
32.18 To conclude, Papua New Guinea, recognizing the value of education, science,  culture and communication, and has accorded them their rightful place in the devel-  opment of both human and non-human resources in the country. It is our hope that  Unesco's assistance will continue to flow to the needed areas through the partici-  pation and regular programmes which have been proposed in the Draft Programme and  Budget for 1984-1985. Madam President, I should like to thank you and all dis-  tinguished delegates for your patience in Listening to my address.
33. The PRESIDENT:  call on Mr Mohamed Abdulla Al-Sanie, Director of the Kuwait Research Centre,  Observer for the Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States.  I thank the deputy head of the delegation of Papua New Guinea, and I now
(34.1) Mr AL-SANIE (Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States) (Translation from  the Arabic) :  Madam President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, ladies  and gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure to address this distinguished assembly here  today and to greet you most sincerely as pathfinders opening the way for the welfare, pro-  gress and prosperity of humanity and striving to help mankind attain its goals of security,  stability and peace. May I convey greetings to you all from my colleague, Dr Ahmed Mohamed  Racheed, Director-General of the Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States. I pray God,  the mighty and exalted, that He will crown with success the efforts of the participants at  this Conference to attain the goals to which we all aspire.
(34.2) I should like to offer my congratulations to the President of this twenty-second  session of the General Conference for this supreme token of confidence which has been  vouchsafed to him, among all the members of the Conference. He is assuredly worthy of this  trust and admirably fitted to discharge the responsibilities associated with it. We all  know that he is a tireless worker and a man of exceptional learning and talents, and as  this Conference proceeds we shall find that his reputation is further enhanced thanks to  his efforts in the service of mankind.
(34.3) I should also like, Madam President, to greet Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'BOW, Director-  General of the Organization, whose judicious management and enlightened leadership have  made it possible to achieve so much. Mr M'Bow's success has stemmed from his faith in  mankind's right to a life of dignity, prosperity and peace, regardless of time, place,  race or creed, and the community of man has benefited from the efforts that he has made.  Certainly we have been impressed by the achievements of the Organization at this session  which is now nearing its end, and when we consider the programme for the 1984-1985 period,  as reflected in the Medium-Term Plan, we see that it goes to the very heart of the essen-  tial issues of service to the community of mankind and paves the way for action to achieve  those goals by its use of valid scientific methods.
(34.4) Ladies and gentlemen, the Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States has been  established as an expression of the aspirations of the people of the region so that it may  be possible to produce individuals capable of directing the evolving trends of life in our  Arab nation, individuals whose creative activity in turning the nation's resources to best  advantage will be the hallmark of life in our region in the future. The leaders of the  Arab Gulf States have taken measures to unify their educational action with respect to con-  cepts, planning, methodology and objectives because they believe that limited individual  efforts are of little use in the pursuit of contemporary scientific progress, while the  people of the region are united by stable bonds of religion, language, descent and geogra-  phy. The Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States was established to initiate a pro-  cess of evolution in education starting from our existing educational institutions; it  encompasses all areas of education, and it draws on any experience or concept that has  emerged from experiments conducted at educational institutions in the Arab world in generai  or in any part of it. From this starting-point, the Bureau has taken as one of its funda-  mental tasks the establishment of a basis for common action with other Arab or international  institutions, action which involves more than mere co-operation or exchanges of information  and visits, aiming rather at joint project execution programming and shared participation in  activities. Meetings between the Organization and the Bureau have invariably resulted in  agreements on co-operation and joint projects. These meetings culminated in the visit of  the Director-General of Unesco to the Bureau in Riyadh, a visit which served to confirm the
930    far-reaching nature of the co-operation between the two bodies. As a result of that visit, 17  co-operation increased even further with the provision of advisory services, information  and expert missions. These meetings have now become a regular feature of the Bureau's PIO-  gramme and a factor in its project implementation scheduling. The establishment of a new  subnetwork for educational renewal in the State of Kuwait will, perhaps, further reinforce  co-operation by making a positive impact on the future of education in the Arab world and  elsewhere. This is an example of the combined action that binds the Bureau to its parent  organization, namely Unesco. Joint meetings bring together senior officials of the two  institutions, agreement being reached on the co-ordination of their activities in accord-  ance with the nature and scheduling of the projects concerned, right up to the level of  the preparation of unified implementation strategies that are adopted by both parties.
(34.5) Ladies and gentlemen, one of the most noteworthy projects implemented by the Arab  Bureau of Education for the Gulf States is the establishment of the Arab Gulf University.  Following the adoption of a resolution by the first Conference of Ministers of Education  and Culture in the Arab Gulf States which established a Supreme Council for Higher Educa-  tion to be responsible for co-ordination and integration in this area among the Member  States, specialized committees were set up to study the project, with the participation of  experts from the institutions concerned in the Member States and from Arab and international  organizations. After years of uninterrupted effort, the Sixth Conference, held in Baghdad,  adopted a resolution giving effect to the establlshment of the Arab Gulf University in  Bahrain. This university is regarded as a living example of co-operation and co-ordination  among the Member States. It will be something more than a university for it will be unique  in the region as regards the programmes and curricula it offers; it will deal with the  problems of the region and provide it with the specialists and skilled manpower it needs,  in contrast to existing universities. It will be a miniature Gulf community, attracting  students from all the Gulf States.
(34.6) In executing its projects, the Bureau has adopted two parallel approaches. First,  it carried out a comprehensive survey of existing curricula at the various levels of  general education in its Member States and assessed the situation in the light of its  objectives; these studies encompassed all fields of study. Second, it laid down the  general framework of development in the light of the existing situation and contemporary  trends, both in the Arab world and in the world at large. The results have been the  unification of educational objectives and the general bases of curricula in the Gulf States,  and the translation of those general objectives into specific goals for the various sub-  jects at all levels of general education.
(34.7)' Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf  States is always ready to undertake joint action in this important area. For the course  of human life is full of trials and tribulations, but, regardless of the problems involved,  genuine co-operation among the agencies and organizations concerned will help to overcome  all difficulties, surmount all obstacles, and ensure that the loftiest goals will be  attained. God gives success to any endeavour that is sincerely and honourably undertaken  in the service of mankind everywhere. Peace and the blessing and mercy of God be upon you.
35. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Observer for the Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States,  and I now call on Dr Jean Marie Schwartz, Observer for the World University Service,  who is the last speaker on our list for this evening in the general policy debate.
36.1 M. SCHWARTZ (Entraide universitaire mondiale) :  est actuellement coprésidente de la Consultation collective des organisations non  gouvernementales de jeunesse auprès de l'Unesco, c'est-à-dire le principal moyen  de communication entre les organisations gouvernementales de jeunesse et l'Unesco.  C'est à ce titre que je m'adresse à vous et le texte que je vais lire a été approuvé  par 25 organisations.
36.2 Madame la Présidente, Mesdames, Messieurs, je vous remercie d'avoir bien  voulu donner la parole, devant cette importante assemblée, à la Consultation col-  lective des Organisations de jeunesse auprès de l'Unesco.-J'y vois une pseuve sup-  plémentaire de l'intérêt qu'attache l'Unesco à ses liens avec les ONG. NOUS nous  félicitons de cette ouverture, particulièrement en ce qui concerne les mouvements  de jeunesse. L'existence même et le fonctionnement de la Consultation collective  des ONG de jeunesse organisée annuellement par l'Unesco témoigne de l'attention  accordée à la contribution que nos organisations peuvent apporter 2 l'Unesco.
36.3 Notre rôle consiste, entre autres, à apporter le point de vue des jeunes  sur l'action de l'Unesco, et il nous a semblé utile de vous faire part de nos ré-  flexions quant aux moyens d'aller encore plus loin dans cette voie.
36.4 Dans l'esprit de la préparation de l'Année internationale de la jeunesse
(1985) dont les trois thèmes sont : participation, développement, paix, nous sou-  haiterions voir s'accroître la coopération entre l'Unesco et les organisations de  jeunesse, tout particulièrement au niveau régional et national. A cette fin, on  pourrait envisager d'une part l'organisation de consultations collectives des or-  ganisations de jeunesse sur une base régionale, et d'autre part de fermes incita-  tions afin que la jeunesse soit représentée au sein de chacune des commissions  nationales pour l'Unesco.
36.5 En ce qui concerne la participation, premier thème de l'Année internatio-  nale de la jeunesse, nous y voyons plusieurs implications. La première, c'est que  Madame la Présidente, Mesdames, Messieurs, l'organisation que je représente
93 1    la jeunesse soit effectivement, quotidiennement et massivement appelée à partici-  per à sa préparation et à son déroulement. Cela nous semble une condition essen-  tielle de sa réussite. La seconde, c'est que 1985 marque dans les faits l'accrois-  sement de la place accordée aux jeunes dans la vie économique, sociale, culturelle  et politique. Parmi les grandes questions qui concernent la jeunesse et pour les-  quelles elle est prête à mobiliser son énergie figure sans aucun doute celle de  l'emploi.
36.6 Par son poids numérique et sa position dans la société, la jeunesse cons-  titue la catégorie sociale la plus apte à promouvoir les changements nccessaires  pour faire face aux grands problèmes qui affectent les sociétés contemporaines et  hypothèquent notre avenir. Nous espérons donc apporter notre contribution à la  réflexion que va entreprendre l'Unesco sur les problernes mondiaux ainsi qu'aux  études prospectives.
36.7 En liaison avec les deux derniers thèmes de l'Année internationale de la  jeunesse, nous souhaitons aussi un accroissement des activités en faveur de la paix  et du développement dans lesquelles les organisations de jeunesse ont uri rôle à  jouer, notamment par le volontariat. Ainsi nous félicitons-nous que la jeunesse  trouve sa place dans certains des grands programmes autour desquels va s'articuler  l'action de l'Unesco. Nous avons en particulier pris note du congrès mondial sur  la jeunesse qui sera organisé par l'Unesco en 1985 et nous espérons que les orga-  nisations de jeunesse y trouveront leur place légitime.
36.8 Quant à l'action pour le développement, nous nous préoccupons des moyens  permettant aux jeunes d'y.contribuer de manière efficace. Ce sont, en effet, les  projets opérationnels, qu'ils soient régionaux ou nationdux, qui nous paraissent  les plus aptes à promouvoir une véritable participation des jeunes. Si les études  dans ce domaine sont importantes, ce sont les initiatives concrètes sur le terrain  qui permettent aux jeunes de s'associer aux activités de développement. Dans cette  perspective également, les programmes de formation de responsables des mouvements  de jeunesse constituent un élGment important. C'est pourquoi nous souhaitons que  l'Unesco recommence à leur accorder une attention particulière, notamment dans le  cadre du programme de bourses de voyage qui, au cours des années précédentes, a  rempli pleinement son rôle.
36.9 I1 existe encore d'autres domaines dans lesquels la mobilisation de la  jeunesse nous semble essentielle. Nous pensons tout d'abord à l'élimination des  préjugBs, de l'intolérance, du racisme et de l'apartheid (grand programme XII),  au développement de la communication (grand programme III), à la culture et l'ave-  nir (grand programme XI) et à l'éducation pour tous (grand programme II) ; ce sont  là des thèmes auxquels la jeunesse est particulièrement sensible et des programmes  auxquels elle peut apporter une contribution de choix.
36.10 Nous espérons que l'Unesco saisira l'occasion qu'offre l'Année internatio-  nale de la jeunesse pour renforcer son rôle de laboratoire d'idées en ce qui con-  cerne l'action en faveur de la jeunesse. Je tiens à vous assurer, Madame la Prési-  dente, Mesdames, Messieurs, que les organisations de jeunesse vous apporteront  tout leur concours à cet effet. Je vous remercie.
37.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Observer for the World University Service.
37.2 Ladies and gentlemen, before closing the meeting, I shall give the floor  to the delegate of the United States of America, who wishes to exercise her right  of reply in response to remarks made by the delegate of the Ukrainian Soviet  Socialist Republic.
38.1 Mrs TAYLOR (United States of America) :  has made it necessary once again for the United States of America to respond to  issues which - as we have previously stated - threaten the basic purposes and  invade the lofty principles upon which Unesco was founded.
38.2 The delegate from the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic has said that  the participation of the United States in a multilateral force which is now in  Grenada shows, and I quote him, as translated, 'that imperialism will stop at  nothing'. This is a gross distortion of the truth. What the United States  presence in Grenada does show is that this country has the real determination and  ability to join with other democratic nations at their request, and in full com-  pliance with relevant international agreements, to defend threatened democratic  societies.
38.3 The United States of America is not ashamed of the help it has provided  in response to the request of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States; it  is proud of it.  Madam President, the delegate of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic
38.4 Regarding the Ukrainian delegate's charge that the United States is pre-  paring to deploy new missiles against the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the  United States can only reiterate that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization's  planned deployment of intermediate-range missiles was made necessary in response  to a massive build-up of similar weapons in Eastern Europe, which upset the mili-  tary balance.
38.5 The United States hopes that negotiations in good faith can right this  inbalance, and render the deployment of these missiles unnecessary. The United  States urges the delegate from the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic to exert  his influence to bring the current negotiations to a mutually satisfactory  conclusion.
39.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of the United States of America. Ladies and gentle-  men, may I remind you that tomorrow morning we will also be discussing item 21.1.
39.2 The meeting stands adjourned.  The meeting rose at 9.15 p.m.  La séance est levée à 21 h.15  Se levanta la sesion a las 21 h.15