Eleventh plenary meeting
31 October 1983 at 3.10 p.m.  President: Mrs ALEXANDER (Saint Lucia)  later : Mr WHITLAM (Australia)  Onzième séance plénière
31 octobre 1983, à 15 h.10  Président : Mme ALEXANDER (Sainte-Lucie)  puis : M. WHITLAM (Australie)  Undécima sesión plenaria
641    THIRD SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  TROISIEME RAPPORT SUPPLEMENTAIRE DU PRESIDENT DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES  POUVOIRS  TERCER INFORME COMPLEMENTARIO DEL PRESIDENTE DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION 3E  PODERES  TPETMR AOIIOJIHHTEJIbHbln AOKJIAP, IIPEACEAATEJIR KOMMTETA II0 llPOBEPKE I'IOJIHOMOWIR
3-91 ai,>¡ (pi 'U&> U C L J l  cpGji >+I  &&-iït+ 35 E a 3 3 ?,k +I\* #li*  I. The PRESIDENT:  call on the Chairman of the Credentials Committee to present his third supplementzry  report.
2.1 Mr BALASUBRAMANIAM (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Credentials Committee:  Madam President, credentials in due form have now been received from Mali, Mozam-  bique, Sri Lanka and Zambia which had previously submitted provisional credentials.
2.2 I recommend to the General Conference that the Member States referred to  above be admitted to take part in the work of the present session of the General  Conference. Thank you, Madam President.
3.1 The PRESIDENT:  report? Are there any objections?
3.2 I see none. The report is adopted.  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)/DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)/DEBATE DE  POL~TICA GENERAL (continuacibn) / ÛBCY~EHME BO~POCOB ÛSUEC~ ~IOJIIITMICII (npononxeHue)/  Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the eleventh plenary meeting, and I  I thank the Chairman of the Credentials Committee. Do you agree with the  ( @L ) 'LLdl 'LUI .&L / ,g,&$@@-&( @ )
4. The PRESIDENT:  for the Palestine Liberation Organization, Mr Hanna Nasir.  We shall now continue the general policy debate. I call on the Observer
(5.1) Mr NASIR (Palestine Liberation Organization) (Translation from the Arabic) :  Madam President, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to  begin by congratulating the President on his unanimous election to preside over thfs  General Conference, which is clearly proof of the great international confidence he  enjoys in the field of education and culture. I wish him every success in the exercise  of his duties.
(5.2) It is a pleasure for me to participate in this Conference, knowing as I do  Unesco's role in establishing the foundations for understanding between peoples, and ex-  tending human culture in the service of peace, development and well-being.
(5.3) It gives the PLO delegation great pleasure to convey its appreciation to the  Director-General and his assistants for the tremendous effort in preparing the Draft Pro-  grame and Budget. For that document is a faithful reflection of the Medium-Term Plan  and a response to the priority needs of peoples and countries, especially developing  countries. We would also like to express our appreciation of Unesco's courage and its  concern with world problems, within its fields of competence, which cannot be overlooked.
(5.4) Madam President, this Conference is being held in a climate of serious world  tension. Foremost amongst the causes for anxiety are the events in Grenada, where a  superpower invaded a small state, a Member State of the UN and Unesco. This aggression  should be strongly condemned, for it is an outrageous violation of international law.  Furthermore, this foolhardy policy negates the role of the UN and demolishes the dream,  entertained by many people, that it is for the UN to play an active role in solving of  international problems.
(5.5) Then there is the war between Iraq and Iran, which has continued for three years.  The PLO has exerted great efforts to the search for a solution to this conflict. We hope  that joint efforts will now be made, on both regional and national levels, to put an end  to this tragic war.
(5.6) This Conference is also being held at a time when our Palestinian people are en-  during perhaps the most difficult situation they ever encountered. Hence, the inter-  national and human responsibility borne by this Conference is a heavy one. It entails  understanding the harsh and bitter reality being experienced by our Palestinian people,  taking the necessary steps to put an end to the subjugation of this people and its  institutions and working to provide it with all the means necessary to enable it to  exercise its irrevocable legitimate rights as endorsed by international institutions and  organizations.
(5.7) Madam President, it is cause for bitterness and distress that our participation  in conferences such as these has become restricted to the submission of petitions and  recommendations calling for the necessary resolutions to be taken to put an end to the  wholesale extermination of the Palestinian people. However, it is an even greater source  of grief that all the international resolutions and recommendations condemning Israel  and its actions have been ineffective, owing to Israel's obstinacy in pursuing the re-  pressive and tyrannical policy it has practised ever since its occupation of our country.  The resolutions condemning Israeli actions are a result of the international community's  awareness of the danger besetting the Palestinian people, and its culture and heritage.  I believe that Israel's stubborn refusal to implement Unesco's resolutions is a very  serious matter, surpassed only by Israel's actual measures and practices. I hope,  Madam President, that Unesco will continually look into ways and means of dealing with  any state which does not respect the resolutions issuedby your august Organization.  (,5.8) I feel I must now recapitulate some of Israel's actions against our people. It  is very important, however, not to convey the false impression that our problem with  Israel can be summed up in a list of actions. Rather, these must be viewed as part of  Israel's policy, which aims at the Palestinian individual and his land, culture and  history, with a view to obliterating Palestinian culture altogether. These Israeli  actions are but an instrument wielded for the implementation of this policy of aggression,  and if we examine these policies here, it is not in order to drag Unesco into political  issues. The matter at hand concerns the destiny of a people and its civilization and  culture, and hence is an integral aspect of Unesco's fields of competence.
(5.9) Madam President, the colonialist settlements are at the top of the list of  illegal Israeli actions, for the settlements, of which Israel openly boasts, are at the  core of Israeli policy. Despite international condemnation of these actions - which  constitute a serious obstacle to peace in the area - Israel continues to implement its  settlement programmes and to change the geographic and demographic features of our land  through, among other things, the Judaization of the city of Jerusalem. The establish-  ment of these settlements means the expulsion of our people from their homes, the  expropriation of their land, the relentless cordoning off of Palestinian villages and  towns and an effort to envelop the legitimate inhabitants in an atmosphere of fear and  terror in order to force them to leave their country. The occupation authorities have  provided full support to settlers, giving them a free hand to commit their crimes. You  are no doubt aware of the horrifying crime committed at the Islamic University of Hebron  last July, when settlers broke  students, killing three of them and injuring over thirty others. The settlement policy  has entailed the seizure of over half the lands of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, and  yet the programme goes on. These settlements are a massive violation of our legitimate  rights and are a blatant effort to destroy the ent.ire cultural heritage of our usurped  land.
(5.10) It is distressing that the USA alone should refuse openly to condemn the settle-  ment programme, contenting itself with the declaration that the Settlements merely  represent a stumbling-block to peace, but are not to be considered illegit.imate. On the  contrary, it is American support for Israel which is the stumbling-block to peace. For  if this seizure, appropriation and forcible annexation of land is not to be deemed ille-  gitimate, then Madam President, we are in a historical and cultural predicament in which  we have begun to confuse right and wrong, justice and crime, legitimacy and usurpation.
(5.11) With regard to our cultural and educational institutions in the occupied land,  these, together with their students and teachers, continue to suffer from the tyrannical  actions of the occupation authorities. Instances of such actions are the number of times  these institutions have been shut down, and the constant detention of students and dis-  missals of teachers. The occupation authorities continue to require that teachers  coming to work at the universities obtain prior permission, a requirement which is poli-  tically offensive and constitutes a violation of freedom of thought, for it entails the  signing of a pledge denigrating the PLO, the legitimate and internationally recognized  representative of the Palestinian people. Refusal to sign the document has led to the  occupation authorities' dismissal of over twenty-five teachers from universitities in the  occupied territories. Thus, these teachers have been prevented from fulfilling their  academic duty towards their students, while the universities are deprived of the experience  of hundreds of their members of whom they are in dire need.
(5.12) As far Military Order No. 845, issued three years ago, under which the Israeli  occupation authorities attempt to restrict freedom in universities and to directly inter-  fere in academic affairs, I would like to recall Unesco's resolution, adopted at its last  conference, calling upon Israel to cancel the military order in question. Israel's only  response was to declare a temporary freeze. Thus, the military order remains as a threat  hanging over the heads of the universittes, to be applied when Israel so wishes.
(5.13) While I thank the Director-General and Unesco for their continuous efforts to  give effect to the various General Conference resolutions and Executive Board decisions  in this connection, I hope that, with the new academic year already started, additional  resolutions will be adopted at this Conference which will lead to the taking of appropriate  measures to compel the occupation authorities purely and simply to cancel Military Order  NO. 854 and theundertakingrequiredforincomingteachers, aswellas put an end to the  violation of the freedom of educational and cultural institutions in the occupied Arab  territories and to the settlement policy, the Judaization of Jerusalem and the alteration  of its religious, historical, cultural and architectural features.
(5.14) As for aur people in Lebanon, we must remember the tragedy and problems brought  upon the Lebanese and Palestinian peoples by the Zionist invasion. We must remember with  humility the massacres of elderly people, women and children in the camps of Sabra and  Chatila. We must remember Israel's destruction of educational, cultural and social  institutions, as well as the cultural piracy it has practiced in plundering tine cultural  and scientific heritage of the Palestinian Research Centre, the Arts and Heritage Centre,  and others. Israel continues to turn a deaf ear to the appeals and resolutions adopted by  Unesco and other international organizations for the restoration of that cultural heritage.  We must also remember the thousands of teachers, students, scholars and workers still under  detention in the al-Ansar Camp.  into the university and deliberately fired at the
(5.15) It is indeed terrifying, Madam President, that Israel should extend its aggres-  sive actions beyond the borders of Palestine to hound the Palestinian people, individuals  and institutions, wherever they may be. This proves that Israel has not settled for the  mere occupation of the land, but that it is planning the extermination of this people and  its cultural heritage, thereby attempting to conceal'any evidence that might point to its  crime, and to blot out the reality of this people with its culture, heritage, history and  legitimate right to life on its land and to establish its own independent state. The  disregard of the Palestinian people's full rights and the continued Israeli occupation of  Arab territories in Palestine, the Golan and Lebanon not only represent a danger to the  Arab world, but are a serious threat to world peace, a threat which cannot be reduced  without the restoration of justice and equity in our region. Thank you, Madam President.
6. The PRESIDENT:  call on H.E. Mr Faraj Al Mazroui, of the Ministry of Education of the United Arab  Emirates and head of the delegation of the United Arab Emirates.  I thank the observer for the Palestine Liberation Organization. I now
(7.1) Mr MAZROUI (The United Arab Emirates) (Translation from the Arabic):  and gentlemen, it is an honour and a matter of great happiness for me to convey to Mr Said  Tell, the President of the General Conference, on my own behalf and on behalf of the dele-  gation of the United Arab Emirates, the warmest congratulations on his election as  President of the twenty-second session of the General Conference. The reason for my  happiness is not that the chair is occupied by an Arab personality, although this does  emphasize the interest of prominent Arab figures in pursuing their international role and  their desire to participate actively in the establishment of world justice and peace.  Rather, over and above any other consideration, I commend this conference's election of  Mr Tell because of his knowledge and extensive experience in the field of education and  his long devotion to the service of national and international causes, striving ceaselessly  to instil the spirit of brotherhood among peoples and to establish world peace on the  basis of understanding and dialogue between nations. I am certain that his well-known  qualities of wisdom, competence and firmness in international issues are the best guarantee  for the success o€ our work and for the translation of the fundamental principles of our  Organization into material form.
(7.2) I am also happy, on this occasion to express my appreciation to Mr Margan, the  former President of the Conference, for his praise-worthy efforts, his active role in  bringing success to the work of the Conference and his perspicacity with regard to  important international issues.
(7.3) I would also like to commend the Chairman and distinguished members of the  Executive Board for the valuable efforts exerted by this fine body on behalf of the Organ-  ization. I would also like to tkank the Director-General and the members of the Secre-  tariat for their preparatory work, research and recommendations that have clarified the  different aspects of the draft budget and major programmes with which the Organization is  concerned.
(7.4) Madam President, a scrutiny of the Draft- Programme and Budget for 1984-1985 and  of the Director-General's valuable introduction leads me to make a few observations which  I shall summarize in two points, for the delegation of the United Arab Emirates will have  the opportunity to express its opinion on personal matters in the Programme Committees  and the other bodies of the General Conference. The first point I wish to make concerns  important matters related to the Organization's general policy, and the other deals with  Unesco's participation in the work of dealing with major international problems through  its tasks and major programmes.
(7.5) The first observation is that, today, we have before us a new approach to the  Draft Programme and Budget, namely the transition from the Plan's six-year perspective to  the two-year programming framework. The document clearly illustrates the nature and scope  of the proposed activities for 1984-1985 as well as the setting and nature of the activi-  ties planned for the following biennial periods. This is also illustrated in document
22C/5in the introductory texts to each subprogramme of the Major Programmes. The Draft  Programme and Budget for 1984-1985 covers the first biennial period of the second Medium-  Term Plan, and its structure conforms to that of the plan itself. The draft programe is  characterized by greater strength and coherence as a result of full intersectoral co-  operation, both in deciding on activities and in their subsequent implementation. Because  of this, we find admirable congruence anã simultaneity, in the work of the different  sectors, thanks to the Director-General's tireless efforts in preparing the six-year plan,  which received the frank and unanimous approval of the General Conference, as well as the  active participation of the Executive Board. As a result, document 22C/5accurately re-  flects the broad lines of emphasis of the Plan and its various focal points in terms of  major programmes and subprogrammes; the draft programme seeks to translate each of these  parts into operational terms within the scope of Unesco's tasks as set forth in the Plan.  On the other hand, we observe that the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985 - which  marks a return to biennium programming - has been brought into line with the cycle of the  other Organizations of the United Nations system, which follow the same timetable. The  result - which to us seems important - is that document 22c/5 provides clear evidence of  Unesco's wish to contribute to the harmonization of programmes and to the improvement of  co-ordination andco-operation within the United Nations system.
(7.6) The second observation is the emphasis on interconnection between thought and re-  search on the one hand and the implementation of studies on the other. For it would not  be wise for Unesco's mission to be restricted to carrying out research, without implement-  ing the projects which fall within the scope of its major tasks, nor should it be  restricted to the implementation of one aspect of the projects without taking their inte-  gration into account. We support the Director-General in stressing the importance of  interrelation between reflection and action. For interaction between reflection and re-  search on the one hand, and operational activities on the other, leads to an organic bond  between research and implementation. Furthermore, the suitability and constant adjustment  of the work of implementation - at its various stages - to the requirements of development,  entail the need for a continuing effort to determine the most effective ways of guarantee-  ing the complete success of the Programme's projects. Thus, we believe that Unesco's  mission should not be restricted to reflection and research but rather, that the Organiza-  tion should be able to implement its projects and should be provided with all the necessary  facilities for the supervision and follow-up of its projects within its sphere of com-  petence. We hope that, as a precautionary measure, Unesco will take into account, upon  completion of the Medium-Term Plan, the need to establish follow-up programmes to ensure  the sound application of its projects.  Madam President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, ladies
(7.7) This observation leads us to assert the importance of providing the Organization  with independent funds, to enable it not only to implement its activities, but also to  achieve better co-operation with financing sources, such as the International Bank for Re-  construction and Development, with regard to the major projects the organization wishes  to implement.
(7.8) Madam President, my other brief observation is related to world problems and the  major programmes. The Draft Programme and Budget for the 1984-1985 biennium,whichis part  of the Medium-Term Plan setting forth Unesco's tasks, has won the approval Of the Emirates.  Our country continues-to support the lofty principles stated in Unesco's Constitution as  well as the Organization's efforts to preserve human rights and the rights of peoples.
(7.9) With regard to major world problems and the lines of emphasis of the programme,  we live in a world of danger, one in which the future of humanity itself is in jeopardy.  Dialogue between the great powers is associated with the proliferation of lethal weapons,  the simplest of which would be enough to turn the world into a lifeless wasteland over-  night. A glance at the instances of aggression that threaten world peace is enough to  convey a grasp of the seriousness of the situation. In the Arab world, we see the viola-  tion of the Palestinian people's right to liberate its land and to asset its national  identity; the violation of Lebanon's legitimate rights to liberate its land from the  Israeli occupation forces;the war between Iraq and Iran and the ensuing threat to peace.  Outside the Arab world, we observe with alarm the violations of human rights and the  rights of peoples, including apartheid and persecution on the basis of colour and race,  to say nothing of principle and creed.
(7.10) On the other hand, if we look at our world today from another angle, we see it  facing a flood of development in the field of technology, one which can no longer be  either directed or repressed. The West suffers from it, if only t0.a certain extent,  even though it is the source of this revolution, if one can so term it. Nevertheless,  it can assimilate this progress by virtue of the relatively co-ordinated development its  societies have undergone. Third World countrlls, however, have faced this extraordinarily  rapid development in the field of science and technology without adequate preparation and  receptiveness. This has led them to live in confusion, making development there a dubious  matter. Accordingly, it is essential for technological progress to be an important factor  in development, but developing countries must be helped to determine their needs in  accordance with their own abilities and resources; technological changes must not be  allowed to become an element of subjection and supremacy under a new guise.
(7.11) All this leads us to stress the leading role which the Organization can play in  the exchange of views and reflection regarding the problems of mankind and in the further-  ance of fruitful projects, the resources for which should be guaranteed so that they may  be effectively realized. It is for these reasons that we believe the Draft Programme has  turned its attention to all these problems affecting humanity.
(7.12) Programme I is directly related to the interrelation between thought and action,  as well as to the basic needs of peoples, both in the present and in the future. We sup-,  port the approach adopted in the Draft Programme, whereby consideration is given to the  views and experience of a group of institutions and individuals outside the Organization,  as well as the intellectual resources of the Organization itself and the Secretariat.  This illustrates the Organization's concern to strengthen reflection with Member States  and governmental and non-governmental organizations, as well as the Organization's own  contributions to the advance of ideas and to intellectual debate within the international  community. For we realize that each society, regardless of its situation, has something  to offer, that this exchange of ideas can yield a clear picture of present and future  world requirements, and that this programme can cover, within the general framework, all  the other contents of the Draft Programme, which can serve as the operational sphere for  activities stemming from this reflection on existing world problems.
(7.13) From this starting-point, we can see how the other programmes are interconnected  and interrelated. Major Progsramme II, 'Education for All', raises a major problem related  to equal access to education and the ensuing problem of illiteracy. For the elimination  of illiteracy has become a necessity unanimously acknowledged by the international com-  munity. Illiteracy is an evil from which developing countries, in particular, suffer,  especially the Arab world, where the situation is worse than in Africa, South American  countries and Asia in terms of the percentage of illiterates. It is impossible to imagine  sustained development without the establishment of education on a solid foundation which  enables society to benefit from information. For this reason, we support the contents of  Major Programmes II, IV and V dealing with the problems of education.
(7.14) Furthermore, it is impossible to imagine the dissemination of information in the  absence of a new and more equitable information order in the field of Communication and  the media. For this reason, we support Major Programme III. I would like to mention, in  this connection, that the Arab States are preparing for the 1984 Intergovernmental Con-  ference on Communication Policies in the Arab States.
(7.15) With respect to Major Programmes VI, VII, IX and X on the sciences, these contain  elements of creativity and innovation. We support the strengthening of international  intellectual co-operation and support for national research and training efforts in all  spheres of the natural and human sciences.
(7.16) Turning to Programme IX.2. (Science and technology policies), the two conferences  of ministers responsible for the application of science and technology policies to develop-  ment which will be convened in the Arab states in 1984 (CASTARAB II) and in Latin America  and the Caribbean in 1985 (CASTALAC II) will pursue the analysis of experience acquired  at national level and the exchange of information with regard to science and technology.  This will clarify the role of scientific progress in solving the problems of development.
(7.17) In Major Programme XI we find an affirmation of cultural identity and a principle  which cannot be overlooked, namely the equal dignity of all cultures. The strengthening
650    of cultural identity is a useful aid to understanding the problems of development and  achieving international cultural cooperation. For this reason, we commend the Organiza-  tion for its action in publishing volumes on the history of Africa and Islam, and hope  the Organization will attempt to translate more of the Arab masterpieces. We also re-  iterate our appeal with regard to the protection of the Palestinian cultural heritage and  an end to Israeli aggression against the Palestinian people.
(7.18) We also support Major Programme XIII, 'Peace, International Understanding, Human  Rights and the Rights of Peoples'. The complex issue of peace calls, on the one hand,  for a fresh process of reflection on the basis of peace and, on the other, for an  analysis of the close links between disarmament and development. It is also our view that  respect for human rights is inextricably linked with respect for the rights of peoples.  For this reason, we welcome the activities proposed in subprogramme XII.2.1, (Reflection  about human rights).
(7.19) We also support Major Programme XIV, 'The Status of Women'. We have noted with  interest that the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984/1985 presents, under Major Programme  XIV, a recapitulatory table of all the activities included in document 22C/5 which are  specifically devoted to women, and the funds provisionally allocated to carry them out.  The activities proposed under the two Programmes 11.4 and XIII.4, as well as the two sub-  programmes 111.2.4 and V1.5.5, aim at putting an end to the different forms of sexual  discrimination and guaranteeing equal opportunities for girls and women in the field of  education as well as fostering their participation in economic, political and social life.  I would also like to note the importance of the comparative studies proposed. in sub-  programme XI.2.5 on individual differences between cultuLas - differences related to  cultural identity - and the affirmation of the role of women, their effect on cultural  identity and their preservation of the customs and traditions which shape that identity.
(7.20) Before concluding, I would like to indicate our appreciation of the praiseworthy  efforts exerted by the Organization's Secretariat in strengthening the status of the  Arabic language and its establishment as one of the official languages of the Organizatio;.  We would also like to see further expansion in its utilization to the same extent as the  other official languages certified by the Organization, for we believe in the evolution  of languages. We therefore appeal to the Organization and to its Director-General to make.  the necessary arrangements for the utilization of the Arabic language, by strengthening  the Arabic Translation Section and participating in the Arab Educational, Cultural and  Scientific Organization by establishing a centre for high-level interpretation and trans-  lation. The creation of this centre was approved in the Conference of Arab Ministers of  Higher Education, held in Tunis (20 - 23 October 1983), which our country had the honour  of hosting.
(7.21) Madam President, this Draft Programme and Budget, which we support and which  represents the first biennial period of the second Medium-Term Plan, cannot attain its  desired goals unless it is associated with a sincere desire for co-operation among Member  States, and unless dialogue is tolerant and fraternal in nature, for we have come here in  search of points of agreement for the common interest of peoples.
(7.22) Thank you. Peace and God's mercy be upon you.
8. The PRESIDENT:  the floor to H.Z. Mr S. Catsellis, Minister of Education of Cyprus and head of the  Cypriot delegation.
9.1 Mr CATSELLIS (Republic of Cyprus) :  Madam President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, on behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Cyprus, I should like  first to ask you, Madam President, to convey to Mr Tell our congratulations on his  election to the presidency of this twenty-second session of the General Conference:  a reflection of his distinguished achievements in the field of education and eminent  stature in international affairs. We are convinced that under his wise guidance,  this Conference will be successful in facing the difficult tasks before it. May I  also join other speakers in extending a warm welcome to the new Member States which  have recently joined the Organization.
9.2 Madam President, a year ago we approved in this hall a Medium-Term Plan,  which defines our objectives and methods for the six years ahead. The Draft Pro-  gramme and Budget now before us stems from that approved Plan. We should like to  extend our warm congratulations and gratitude to the Director-General for his tire-  less efforts in producing this remarkable document. We note with satisfaction that  the presentation of the draft programme fully reflects the new methodological approach  of our Organization in that the proposed activities under the various programmes  have been determined within the framework of Unesco's major tasks.
9 -3 I have only one or two general remarks to make on the various major pro-  grammes that will be discussed in the Commissions.
9.4 With regard to education, we have studied Major Programmes II, IV and V  with great interest: we strongly support the principle'of the democratization of  education which is a common theme of these programmes. Although my country is still  suffering from the consequences of the tragic events of 1974, it has succeeded in  making education available not only to the school-age population but to the adult  public in general. Free and compulsory elementary education, the extension of pre-  primary education to assist working mothers, free secondary education and adult  classes are among the achievements that we have to show in this respect.  I thank the head of the delegation of the United Arab Emirates and give
9.5 Furthermore, with the aim of helping disadvantaged groups, we provide  students from poor rural areas, refugees and other low income families with  school meals and free transportation and carry out special programmes to eradicate  the very low percentage of adult illiteracy. Our adult education programme is  designed to heLp adults, through specialized training courses, to cope with their  changing professional and vocational needs and adapt to new technological  requirements.
9.6 Within our educational system we offer a wide range of training facili-  ties for teachers and, despite economic limitations, we have established new  services such as the Curriculum Development Unit, which provides for the prepara-  tion and production of educational material, including textbooks. We keep our  syllabi under constant review, so that they conform as closely as possible to the  needs of our rapidly develoying society.
9.7 Turning to science and technology, Madam President, we firmly believe  that economic and social progress and improvement of living conditions, especially  in the developing countries, depend largely on the capacity of these countries to  make more effective use of scientific knowledge and its technological application.  We are therefore convinced of the need to establish mechanisms for the free flow of  technological and scientific knowledge among countries. In this respect, Cyprus  offers training to a large number of foreign students from developing countries  at its tertiary education institutions.
9.8 In order to move towards the establishment of a new economic order, we  must take urgent measures to bridge the scientific and technological gap between  developed and developing countries; the latter should be assisted in harmonizing the  new technological advances with their endogenous capabilities and resources. De-  veloping countries should not be considered merely as consumers of technologies;  on the contrary their aim must be a balanced development which will guarantee their  economic self-determination. Assistance to the least developed countries in this  direction should be a priority.
9.9 Madam President, culture is an essential factor for development. The  safeguarding and respect of the culutral heritage of every country is of funda-  mental importance, and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus is very conscious  of its responsibiliky to safeguard its long cultural heritage dating back to the  seventh millennium B.C. We therefore welcome the proposal in the document before  us for the continuation of the preparation of inventories of all cultural property,  both movable and immovable.
9.10 Cyprus has been extremely active in archaeological research and in the  preservation and enhancement of its culutral heritage. In this context, we have  maintained extensive and fruitful collaboration with numerous foreign missions and  intergovernmental organizations. Since 1974, however, a large proportion of our  territory and the cultural property it contains has been under foreign occupation  and is not accessible to the legal authorities. There is evidence that a great  deal of damage, looting and illicit export has taken place; we are thus grateful  to the Director-General for his continuing efforts to set up a special mission  responsible for contributing to the effective implementation of the recommendations  adopted by the General Conference at all its sessions since 1974 for safeguarding  the cultural heritage of the whole of Cyprus.
9.11 We greatly welcome the proposal for the preservation and presentation of  the movable cultural heritage and, in particular, measures to effect the return of  cultural property to the countries of origin or its restitution in cases of illicit  appropriation. We also support the proposal for the implementation of the Conven-  tion on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and  Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property.
3.12 Concerning the safeguarding of the right of man to communicate, my delega-  tion strongly supports all efforts for the establishment of a new and more effective  information and communication order. In this respect, and in accordance with  resolution 36/40 of the United Nations General Assembly which proclaimed 1983 World  Communication Year, my government has established a National Communications Committee  to inform the general public on the importance of communications in general in  modern society and on the use of existing technological infrastructures for the  free flow of objective information.
9.13 Madam President, we strongly support the proposed activities regarding the  status of women which are in accordance with the relevant resolution of the United  Nations Conference held in Mexico in 1975. My government has recently established  a National Committee for Women, comprising government officials and representatives  of non-governmental organizations, to revise existing legislation and remove dis-  criminatory elements in order to secure the access of women on an equal basis with  men in more aspects of public and private life.
9.14 No programme or policy can be effective without full respect for and  protection of human rights. This issue, Madam President, is at the centre of all  Unesco's activities and preoccupations. Unjustified indeed is the fact that, in  spite of immense advances in science and technology, mankind has failed to agree  on a universally accepted definition and on ways and means of ensuring respect for  and protection of human rights. Instead, we witness ever more flagrant violations  of fundamental human rights. My country is a victim of such violations, a large  proportion of our people having beendeprivedof their homes and property and the  fate of many persons to this day being unknown. This long drawn out injustice con-  tinues despite numerous United Nations resolutions.
9.15 At this time of great international tension, Unesco remains a unique  catalyst in the promotion of fruitful dialogue that could lead to mutual understand-  ing and the safeguarding of peace and prosperity. The world community can only  achieve peace and prosperity if a collective effort is genuinely undertaken by all  members, regardless of race, religion and geographical boundaries, to find commonly  accepted criteria for both material and cultural development. In this we firmly  believe that our Organization has a vital role to play. But, in order to fulfil  its mission, it requires adequate financial means. If we approve the programme we  cannot fail to approve the budget required to implement it. We therefore support  the recommendations put forward by the Executive Board on the proposal of the  Director-General and call on other Member States to do likewise.
9.16 In concluding, Madam President, may I express the wish that this,session  of the General Conference will be successful in accomplishing its difficult tasks  and in creating among all delegates a spirit of mutual understanding, good will and  unity. Thank you.  IO. The PRESIDENT:  delegate of Turkey.
1 1 .  Mr INChU (Turkey) :  right to reply at the end of the debate this afternoon.
12. The PRESIDENT:  Minister of Education of Bangladesh and head of the Bangalee delegation.
13.1 Mr MAJEED KHAN (Bangladesh) :  I bring to all delegations the warm greetings and goodwill of the people of  Bangladesh. May I also express to the distinguished ministers and delegations of  the new member countries who are participating in the General Conference for the  first time our special greetings and congratulations. Allow me to take this oppor-  tunity of requesting you, Madam President, to offer, on behalf of my delegation and  myself, our sincerest congratulations to Mr Tell on his election as President of  the General Conference. His election to this high office is indeed a tribute not  only to his personal qualities and wide-ranging experience but also to his country  with which Bangladesh has many ties and a warm fraternal relationship. I am con-  fident that under his able leadership the proceedings of this Conference will be  conducted efficiently and with objectivity and farsightedness. I wish to assure  him of the best co-operation of my delegation in making the Conference a success.
13.2 I must also convey my own and my delegation's most sincere gratitude to  the past President, His Excellency Ivo Margan, who has so successfully charted the  course of this Organization for the past three years. I am sure all will agree  with me that he has raised the image and standard of performance of the Organization  to new and admirable heights. We also take this opportunity to extend our heartiest  thanks to our esteemed Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, for presenting a  comprehensive and valuable report on'the recent activities of Unesco and a general  framework for the next biennial programme of activities based on the Second Medium-  Term Plan. His deep commitment toUnesco's ideals and his imaginative guidance have  helped to further the cause of Unesco and strengthened it as an organization.
13.3 Madam President, the world today is confronted with many distressing para-  doxes in spite of the tremendous strides made in science and technology. The gap  between the rich and the poor is widening every day. Our failure to halt the arms  race, the heightening of power rivalry, the failure to devise a more just and equit-  able economic order, the failure to satisfy the most basic needs of large sectors  of the world's population, the failure to respect and safeguard the rights and ~  freedom of countries and individuals, all these have combined to make our very  existence on this planet precarious and our future uncertain.  I thank the head of the delegation of Cyprus. I give the floor to the  Thank you, Madam President. We would like to have the benefit of the  I thank the delegate of Turkey and I now call on H.E. Mr Majeed Khan,  Madam President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,
13.4 Armed with her military might, Israel continues illegally and forcibly  to occupy the Arab territories including the Holy City of Jerusalem and to indulge  in blatant acts of naked aggression, violence, terrorism and genocide in total de-  fiance of international law and world opinion. All canons of justice and morality  demand the restoration to the Palestinian people of their inalienable national  rights including their right to a state of their own. Lasting peace can be secured  in the Middle East only by the complete withdrawal of Israel from illegally occupied  Arab territories including Jerusalem and the restoration of the legitimate rights  of the Palestinians and the recognition of the Palestine Liberation Organization  as the sole representative of the Palestinian people. It is most cruel to see that  Israel is taking revenge on the Arabs when the latter have never done any harm to  the Jews. In fact, Jews too were once Arabs. Zionism was advanced as the common-  wealth of world Jews and not as a murder credo against their Arab brothers.
13.5 In southern Africa too, South Africa continues in her policy of minority  dictatorship, racial discrimination and illegal occupation of Namibia. Unesco's  concern for 'the construction of a just and lasting peace and the promotion of  respect for human rights' will have no meaning unless the world canons of justice,  morality, freedom and human dignity are universally followed and respected, irres-  pective of the size, location and level of technological development of nations.
13.6 Among the developing countries, gloomy prospects are facing the thirty  least-developed hardest. Having a total population of approximately 260 million,  the LDCs suffer from a serious lack of physical and economic infrastructures, very  low literacy levels and an extremely low level of per capita income, These in-  dices clearly show that the plight of the LDCs calls for special attention by the  international community without any further delay.
13.7 Madarn President, it is most unfortunate that, in the name of increasing  national security, the militarily most advanced countries have embarked upon an  accelerated arms race, the magnitude of which the world has never seen. Increased  military expenditure--now approximately 800 billion dollars a year--has undoubtedly  resulted in the loss of many social opportunities, the impact of which is felt both  in the developed and the developing world. The time has therefore come to ask  ourselves whether we should continue to prepare for new conflicts or to devote all  efforts to attaining the goals of economic emancipation and social justice for all.
13.8 Madam President, global experience in the developed and developing world  has reaffirmed the role of education and cultural development as central to the rea-  lization of national self-reliance and international understanding. Knowledge is  acquired and transmitted by education. Culture on the other hand is dependent on  creative ability, which in turn is determined by the content and coverage of edu-  cation in society. The potential for human growth in terms of the attainment of  quality is unlimited and the means are the development of education and culture.  The growth in these is accumulated on previous experience. The quality of life  too is best judged by experience.
13.9 Madam President, education and culture are essential for the consolidation  of national independence and the achievement of economic self-reliance. They also  contribute to achieving self-reliance in national defence by raising the levels of  popular skills and morale and by strengthening theunityof peoples on the basis  of cultural integration and national identity. Today, with all the positive  achievements made by science and technology and the amount of knowledge available  about realizing human well-being, it may safely be said that education is the best  investment and the most cost-effective. For the best results, Madam President,  education andculture should be developed in accordance with the hopes and  aspirations of the people and on the basis of the nation's own socio-cultural heri-  tage and background. The development of education and culture should pursue the  principles of national self.reliance, co-operation and amity among all nations.  Unesco is the organization that can help, through its various programmes and  activities within the broad framework of the Second Medium-Term Plan, to realize  educational and cultural development, peace and well-being for all people everywhere.
13.10 Madam President, historically Bangladesh has shared the pioneering experi-  ence of the introduction of liberal education in the country at the beginning of  the nineteenth century. But the teaching of liberal thought against the colonial  background led to the rise of political consciousness among the educated. Later on  liberal English education was popularized under private initiative to turn out as  many civil service employees as politically conscious liberals. By the turn of the  twentieth century educated people were already finding it hard to find employment  but, perhaps because of its political value, no attempt was made to transform edu-  cation into more practical or technical industrial training. So, at a time when  most of Europe was engaged in scientific development and technological advancement,  we were neither encouraged nor did we feel any special necessity to change the  liberal education of the previous century. Bangladesh has had to fight twice for  her independence. On both these occasions the educated and mostly unemployed played  the very critical role of rousing mass consciousness, maintaining mass contacts  in 1971, participating in armed engagements.
13.1î Nearly 13 years after our liberation, now as a homogeneous people, we have  found the old system of education to be not only out-moded but also totally insen-  sitive to the requirement of developing national trained manpower. Yet, political  history has sanctified the place of old education in the culture. So, in the re-  structuring of education, Bangladesh has to face a serious socio-cultural problem  with the old system, as well as the problems of the cost and methodology of  modernization.
13.12 The new education policy is aimed at the development of national manpower  to serve as the instrument of industrial and technological development and, at the  same time, the development of national culture according to the principles of self-  reliance. The basic strategies (and let me say here, Madam President, that to keep  my address brief I have circulated a review of educational development in Bangladesh  to members of all delegations) are as follows. The first strategy is to establish  a meaningful literacy base in the country through effective implementation of  primary education as basic education. In the first phase, the aim is to implement  five years' basic education for all children of primary school age and in the second  phase to make eight years of education compulsory. At present the target is to  carry 50 per cent of the existing 6 year-old age group through grade 5 by 1987. It  is believed that this will have a great impact on school attendance, particularly  in the rural areas, and will eventually make it possible to introudce the second-  phase programme of increasing the period of basic education to 8 years. The second  strategy is to make education open-ended throughout life by providing multiple entry  points throughout the system. Strategy three is to provide for a different kind of  vocational and technical education simultaneously with general education from the  very beginning of the secondary stage. The fourth strategy is to provide oppor-  tunities for systematic higher education according to needs and aptitude. The fifth  strategy is to decentralize higher education through the establishment of autonomous  university colleges in the districts. Initially these will provide higher education  in areas of manpower shortages. The sixth strategy is to relate all post-secondary  education to national requirements and at the same time to promote skills in the  labour force.
13.13 Madam President, under the dynamic leadership of our Head of Government,  Lt. General H.M. Ershad, several measures have been already initiated in the past  eighteen months and new ones are planned for implementation. We are determined to  achieve our initial target as stated earlier and hope that we will be able to intro-  duce a five-year period of compulsory education, before raising the universal basic  education level to 8 years in 1987. In addition to the existing ones, Bangladesh  is introducing diversified methods of education. These are: full-time general  academic course; specialized professional courses for science, medicine, engineering,  agriculture, etc.: vocational and technical education combining sandwich courses  and industrial experience; acquisition of vocational skills by combining part-time  schooling with part-time jobs; courses for dropouts of grades 6-9.
13.14 To support all these intensive educational efforts in the country and to  enable exchanges of experience to take place according to a radial concept and  initially with South Asian countries, I proposed at the fourth extraordinary session  of the General Conference of Unesco the establishment of a regional/sub-regional  Unesco office in South Asia. This was in pursuance of the principle of decentraliza-  tion and in line with the precedents in a few other instances. Several interested  countries have subsequently endorsed this request. Madam President, we have now  reached another phase; far more intensive efforts are now being made in the field  of educational and cultural development in all countries. In this context, Unesco  is called upon to improve its technical capabilities and to decentralize management  so as to be more effective. Bangladesh has assured the Director-General of the  availability of accommodation and other necessary facilities for opening such an  office in Dhaka. Decentralization, Madam President, does not necessarily involve  additional costs; it could be a cost effective measure, one making €or a more  rational deployment of current input. I should very much appreciate positive con-  sideration of the request from our South Asia region.
13.15 Madam President, Bangladesh is culturally and linguistically homogeneous.  The country has a rich cultural heritage that allows diversity of socio-religious  --Muslim, Hindu, Christian and Buddhist--practices within the framework of one  national culture. All groups share in each other's heritages, and they together  esFouse an enlightened liberal ethical attitude.
13.16 Bangladesh has inherited one of the richest traditions in architecture.  There are ruins of diverse architectural forms strewn all over the country. Madam  President, you, no doubt, are aware of the famous eight-century Buddhist monastery  in Paharpur, in the northern region of the country, which was discovered only half  a century ago. This relatively new-found Buddish monastery, the largest south of  Tibet, has opened whole new areas of learning concerning the development of Buddhism  in South and South-East Asia. This monument is now being included in the World  Heritage List. Another monument is the 'Shait Gumbad Mosque' roofed over with 70
655    squat domes and 7 Bengali 'four-roofed' domes in the middle. This mosque, 160 by
180 feet in size and built in the fifteenth century, is still used for regular  worship. This is the largest'mosque representing the early period of fusion of  Tuglak and Bengali architectural forms. It is also being included in the world  Heritage List. At its twenty-first session, the General Conference kindly adopted a  resolution for their restoration and preservation. An international appeal will be  launched through Unesco concerning the site of Paharpur early in 1984. In addition  to these unique and interesting monuments, we also have rich remnants of Moorish  architecture characterized by intricate carved stone work and patterned mosaic in  the ancient mosques on the northern border. Studies on these monuments are being  taken up under joint sponsorship with India. Bangladesh has also an excellent  tradition of stone carving and terra cotta forms.
13.17 In the modern period, painting has developed as probably the most popular  and richest art form in the country. The old teachers and their disciples are ever  expanding the vision of their inner world through the most imaginative use of  colour, line, fixtures and interesting composition. Art exhibitions are frequent  and they draw large attendances. Bangladesh held an Asian Art Exhibition in 1981.  Encouraged by its success, the Second Asian Art Exhibition will be held in Dhaka  in November this year. We are most grateful for Unesco's recognition of our  ef f Orts.
13.18 As a part of the old world heritage, revitalized through the heritage of  Islam, and a melting pot through the continuous assimilation of varieties of ex-  perience, we are simultaneously both old and new. Therefore Madam President, we  most sincerely support the Mexico City Declaration in favour of an enlarged con-  ception of culture that recognizes the equal dignity of all cultures and the  fundamental importance of individual cultural identity. We endorse Unesco's  initiative in launching activities in support of the non-physical heritage, such  as the oral tradition, mother tongues, folk music and the promotion of awareness  among youth about the content and values of their national heritage. In this way  culture will have a chance to grow as part of the unity of each national identity  and as part of the universal commonwealth of nations.
13.19 Madam President, one of the reasons why the newly independent nations are  less developed is that earlier they had no access to scientific development and  technological innovations. Some of these countries have had rich traditions of  scientific research, but the findings have not been applied for the advancement  of national economic and social well-being. The colonial economy was primarily  agriculturally based. As there were not many industries, there was no impetus to  innovation, adaptation or fabrication. So, even where science was pursued aca-  demically, there was no application or popularization of science. Today, though  the disparity among nations is described in economic terms, their real differences  lie in the use and application of science. I believe an index based on total  energy usage would perhaps give a better measure of the state of national material  well-being than the current index of GDP.
13.20 Bangladesh has always attached great importance to the development of  science. The expansion of science with a view to bringing about increased effi-  ciency and promoting problem-solving in everyday life has been slow for several  reasons including the inertia of traditional approaches, the earlier out-moded  system of education and the lack of resources. Under the present government, the  National Committee on Science and Technology of Bangladesh has recently been re-  constituted. The new Committee has been entrusted with the responsibility of  drafting guidelines of national policy. The re-organization of methods and mo-  dalities by which scientific and technological activities could be advanced for  national development is now receiving the active consideration of both the govern-  ment and also important research bodies like the Atomic Energy Commission, the  Institute of Scientific and Industrial Research, etc.
13.21 The development of science and technology in the developing world is  fraught with severe constraints of resources and application of know-how. Bangla-  desh needs international assistance for scientific work aimed at determining by  researchorexperimentation, the appropriate technology for the most economic  utilization of major indigenous resources, local production of equipment for science  teaching and communication work on the popularization of science.
13.22 Bangladesh is in full agreement with the major suggestions of the Draft  Programme where science and technology are concerned. We most eagerly look forward  to associating ourselves with major activities, including research in micro-  electronics and solar energy conversion. Here, let me point out that Bangladesh is  not only requesting aid; in this instance we are in a position to extend technical  assistance in many fields of theoretical and applied science. We trust that Unesco  will develop appropriate competence in terms both of skills and resources so as to  respond to the expressed technological development needs of member nations and to  cater for greater exchanges among developing nations.
13.23 In most societies women account for 50 per cent of the population yet, up  to now, scant interest has been paid to programmes and organizations for the edu-  cation and effective mobilization of women in the development prooess. Any attempt  at progress that leaves uninvolved and ignorant fifty per cent of the human beings  concerned is bound to be ineffective and--in the long run--too costly. In our  determination for development and, at the same time, cost effectiveness, we have  taken measures in recent years in several areas to consolidate the position of women  and open new opportunities for their participation. The present national policy  objectives are: the creation of a propert atmosphere for women to participate in  socio-economic activities; the expansion of educational opportunities, including  non-formal and vocational education, teacher training and specialized training for  the development of managerial and entrepreneural abilities: the provision of ade-  quate facilities for income-generation and the self-employment of women, involving  training in skills, easy-term loans and marketing facilities: the adoption of an  integrated multisectoral approach involving population, health, education and  employment to facilitate greater participation of women; the provision of health  and medical facilities, particularly maternal and child health care and day care  centres: and the extension of family planning throughout the country.
13.24 These objectives are in full agreement with the main objectives of the  second half of the United Nations Decade for Women: quality, development and peace.  Most recently, my government has promulgated several ordinances safe-guarding the  status of women and prescribing severe punishment for their violation. In respect  of assured opportunities for women in public appointment, the age limit for entry  to the civil service has been raised to 30 years; besides entry by competition,
10 per cent of posts are now reserved for women in all sectors of employment and  a minimum of 50 per cent by quota has been reserved for women for employment as  primary school teachers.
13.25 Women tend to be confined to the home and are not yet to any significant  extent involved in the growing market economy of the developing countries; conse-  quently, they are usually denied serious consideration in world forums like this.  Unesco should sponsor national, regional and international comparative studies on  women to permit greater understanding and the formulation of realistic programmes.  Bangladesh is willing to participate in and contribute expertise to such studies,  or any other measures adopted by Unesco in this connection.
13.26 Madam President, with the emergence of nation states based on the principles  of democracy and national self-reliance, communication has assumed a whole new  dimension of importance, as never known before. The constraints of modern know-how  and the lack of necessary communication infrastructures are frustrating measures of  national development, specially those that depend on popular participation. Bangla-  desh has adopted the policy of decentralized government by the people, where civil  servants are called upon to perform more in a catalytic role or as substantive  experts. Development activities are now increasingly being decentralized and given  to co-ordinated local planning and total local implementation. The new policy and  strategy of national development have underscored the urgency of the large-scale  expansion and development of our communication resources, infrastructure and skills.
1.3.27 Bangladesh's needs in the field of communication are both technical and  hardware-based. In this respect, we enjoy excellent co-operation and understanding  with Unesco. We are happy to inform you, Madam President, that Bangladesh has  accepted the Unesco proposal to establish an experimental rural community radio  station. The Organization has also agreed to supply a 30 kW transmitter for  strengthening our national news agency. We hope that within the next few years we  shall be sufficiently newsworthy to the world to be able to utilize our satellite  communication economically. We sincerely appreciate Unesco's assistance for the  Press Institute of Bangladesh.
13.28 With the type of decentralization of government and the development  strategy which have been introduced in Bangladesh, we are now on the threshold  of a national and international breakthrough in communication: but we are also  vulnerable in that we depend on the procurement and national adaptation of communi-  cation technology and skills. As an intergovernmental organization, Unesco has a  major role to play in strengthening communication development in the developing  countries. With this in mind, I would submit that there is an urgent need to make  greater resources available to the Organization to enable it to assist the develop-  ing countries with support for infrastructure, hardware and software, research and  training and national, regional and international co-operation in communication.
13.29 We note with satisfaction in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985  that the Director-General has made a sincere effort to reflect the major programme  areas according to the guidelines of the Second Medium Term Plan. We are also  pleased that he has given special attention to the relevant provisions of the In-
657    ternational Development Strategy for the Third United Nations Development Decade  and to the Substantial New Programme of Action for the 1980s and for the least  developed countries, adopted by the United Nations Conference on the least developed  countries. We are confident that our Organization's activities in the coming years  will help to create in the minds of men the defencesof peace based on justice and  equality among nations, and to remove all suspicion and mistrust from the peoples  of the world.
13.30 Before I conclude, Madam President, let me reiterate our firm faith in and  unswerving support for Unesco's principles and ideals, which are all aimed at con-  ferring immense benefits on the whole of mankind. May I take this opportunity to  extend once again our gratitude to the Director-General and his able colleagues  for their hard work in preparing for the Conference and for promoting the purpose  and values of Unesco in all places and at all times. Thank you, Madam President.
14. The PRESIDENT :  I thank the head of the Bangalee delegation. I now call on H.E. Mr Chams  Eldine El-Wakil, former Minister of Higher Education of the Arab Republic of Egypt  and head of the Egyptian delegation.  : ( y  ) u91 41 l0Jl  dJ y&, W A L J  + I +  ' i J U I  +Lof 1 pldi >dl &-JI 1 p-91 'UJ i d 1   - 2 c  fi3, -/Ig .&'I i,>d VJ e,LjyI & &+Ji F+IlGJ J i  pi d y  $ 1  fi3" ,y +f . ZLrJi J I  -91 1.b Jkf 'LjWIJ 'ikwl di &  b2 dl>lJ 'id+ " I s "  d2 &&a &*I ,i, sdl d SyL J+ &."JI e,> ' s'\.:b'.... I I  *I  nJl+--+&I J+.9 ' L3.b 1 41 ' &di3 J i  -9i3 . L L l J  +Li)gg  d i  u LI Assr +is . qSlg . L W  ' U 1  6AA .La5 4 &ALL> ' ++I "Ls &&i
(15.1) Mr EL-WAiíIL (Egypt) (Translation from the Arabic):  behalf of the Egyptian delegation I offer the President of the General Conference my  congratulations on his election at the twenty-second session. We are certain that his  calm and judicious leadership will ensure the success of this Conference. I would also  like to express my appreciation to the members of the Executive Board and to its Chairman,  Mr Victor Massuh, who has chaired the Board for a period of three years with wisdom and  impartiality under circumstances which have not always been easy. I would also like to  reiterate Egypt's admiration of Mr M'BOW, the Director-General, for his unquenchable faith  in Unesco's mission and his active and sincere devotion to the service of this Organiza-  tion. I can assure him immediately that the Draft Programme and Budget he has presented  is a faithful biennial application of the second Medium-Term Plan and has my government's  support. I would also like to congratulate all the states that have joined Unesco since  the twenty-first General Conference. The flags fluttering in this hall, which have in-  creased in number in the last few days, are the best proof ofthe universality of this  Organization and the international community's faith in it.
(15.2) Madam President, aware as it is of the value of your time, my country's delegation  has not been in the habit of expounding Egypt's national achievements in Unesco's fields  of competence, despite their number and importance. At the same time, however, I regard  it as my duty to reiterate our pride in Unesco's action to save endangered historical  sites and monuments, whether these are threatened by nature or by man. The international  campaign to save the Nubian monuments is a prominent and eternal example of such action,  whereby Unesco proved its ability to perform a feat unprecedented in history. The  campaign's overwhelming success was a demonstration of international solidarity and testi-  mony to its ability to work wonders. We reiterate our thanks and gratitude to the Member  States and institutions which participated in the rescue campaign and to the Director-  General, who faithfully devoted himself to the task of ensuring that the work would be  completed on time. We hope that Unesco will persist in its determination to go through  with the establishment of the Aswan Museum, which will feature the heritage and monuments  of Nubia, and of the Cairo Museum of Egyptian Civilization, which will contain many of  the historical treasures of Egypt, beginning with the earliest periods. We in Egypt have  always regarded these treasures as belonging to humanity as a whole.
(15.3) Madam President, the major programmes and sub-programes proposed in document
22C/5are being looked into and examined by the commibtee of the General Conference. We  shall therefore not deal with them here during the General Policy Debate but shall only  attempt, in so far as possible, to deal with some of the subjects the Executive Board  recommended should be taken into consideration in the addresses of the heads of delega-  tions, in accordance with document 22C/2, 'Organization of the work of the twenty-second  session'.  Madam President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, on
(15.4) I shall begin with Unesco's contribution to the attainment of the objective of  establishing a new international economic order. Several studies have shown the close  relationship between the endogenous development at the national level, within the frame-  work of regional co-operation and integration, on the one hand, and the establishment of  a new international economic order, on the other hand. For the question of development  is first and foremost a national issue, while at the same time it is also an international  issue. For we live in a world in which the interests and destiny of all have become  greatly interrelated and interconnected.  prime responsibility and that the more a national community works and the more its work  is characterized by faith and determination, the more the community will benefit.  Egyptian youth contributing to development refuses all charity or kindness, believing in  its own capacity for national achievements, within the framework of international co-  operation based on mutual give and take. Despite this, however, and given the realities  of current world economic conditions, it is clear that no matter how much judicious effort  is exerted by developing countries, these remain directly subject to the harsh influence  of external economic factors related to the international economic situation. This is not  the occasion to enumerate these many factors. The unalterable reality, however, is that  the world in which we live has become marked by a degree of interrelation which would  never have entered the minds of those who established the current international economic  order. Thus, the task of gouernments in the organization of their internal affairs has  come to be dictated, to a large extent, by external factors beyond their control. Hence,  the urgent need to establish a new order incorporating radical reforms based on a free and  more comprehensive dialogue pursued with a genuine desire to reach agreement. Within its  fields of competence in particular, Unesco can pursue and extend its research into the  role of culture in the establishment of more balanced and equitable relations, based pri-  marily on the strengthening of human values and of man's capacity for creativity and self-  expression.
(15.5) I now turn to Unesco's efforts to establish peace, strengthen human rights and  abolish colonialism and racism: Egypt, situated in the heart of the Arab world, at the  northeastern corner of the African continent, the meeting point of Africa and Asia, and on  the southern coast of the Mediterranean Sea linking Africa with Europe, attaches particular  importance to the issues of security and peace in all these regions. We belive that the  key to peace in the Middle East is a just solution to the Palestinian problem, based on  recognition of the Palestinian people's right to self-determination and its right to  establish its national identity on its own land. In this connection and within Unesco's  fields of competence, we stress the importance of taking the necessary steps to proriide  for the right of the inhabitants of the occupied Arab territories to an education and  culture in accordance with their cultural and historical identity.
(15.6) Madam President, the city of Jerusalem, which is the cradle of the three revealed  religions, holds a unique and valuable place in the hearts of all mankind. Egypt's posi-  tion is firm and clear: Arab Jerusalem is an integral part of the West Bank, and the  legitimate and historical Arab rights to this city must be respected and reinstated. Arab  Jerusalem must be placed under Arab sovereignty, and all measures taken by Israel to  change the material or legal situation of the city are-invalid and must be annulled. Egypt  will continue to struggle for the preservation of Jerusalem's Arab charcter and its dis-  tinctive cultural and human fabric. We strongly support Unesco's continued exercise of  its mandate - provided for in its Constitution - to preserve Jerusalem's historical fea-  tures and authentic sites which are in danger of obliteration.
(15.7) It is with great sorrow and pain that we have witnessed the bloody events which  have taken place on Lebanese soil and in which.the lives of innocent children, women and  elderly people have been lost. These events have jeopardized Lebanon's national unity,  disrupted,its social peace and made the nation a prey to foreign interference, plots and  intrigue. It is the duty of us all to stand by this ancient people.in its attempts to  alter this bitter reality in order to anhieve national reconciliation and regain its  sovereignty over its land.
(15.8) On the other hand, the international community should exert greater effort towards  ending the war between Iran and Iraq, in which the lives of the members of two peoples  sharing the closest cultural and spiritual ties are being wasted by the thousands.
(75.9) On the African level, we see our brothers in the south of the continent under  the rule of a tyrannical racist regime which is based on physical and mental intimidation,  oppression and coercion. How can the civilized world, now on the threshold of the 21st  century accept these practices reminiscent of the Middle Ages?
(15.10) Other problems and issues, posing extremely serious threats to human rights and  the rights of peoples and threatening peace, security and stability are growing and  spreading in 0the.r pazts of the world. Accordingly, we welcome the contents of paragraph
6 (a) (i) oftheproposedresolutionindocument 22c/5 under Major Programme XIII, 'Peace,  International Understanding, Human Rights and the Rights of Peoples'. This paragraph calls  upon the Director-General, among other matters, 'to develop the study and teaching of  public international law'. We attach great importance to this part of the above-mentione8  paragraph, and hope that the Director-General will devote special attention to it. It may  be appropriate to organize a general meeting of the world's most prominent professors of  international law, for an exchange of views and thoughts in order to work out fundamental  principles which would serve as an introduction to a new international law, namely inter-  national law for peace.
(15.11)  task now facing us is the preparation of the generation which will live in the third  millennium,withall the positive predictions and the warnings of danger that have been  made about it. The last few years have witnessed the celebration of International Women's  Year and the International Year of the Child; International Youth Year, for its part will  be celebrated in the near future. From this august rostrum, we call with faith and deter-  mination for an International Year of the Family, a year which would stress the family's  contribution to the strengthening of spiritual and moral values and to the fostering of  understanding and fraternity in both the national and the international communities. For  love, fraternity, dignity, solidarity, understanding and respect for others are all values  which the child learns at home and in the family, before going to school and emerging in  society.  In,Egypt, we believe that development is our  The world of tomorrow will be led by today's children and youth. The difficult
(15.12) The end of the 20th century is witnessing a moral and spiritual crisis of extreme  gravity, a crisis in which values are being warped and the virtues known to all civiliza-  tions and religions,undermined. The most dangerous thing about the crisis is that it  leaves all young people lost amid the noise and clamour of the media, young people who for  the most part, are ignorant of the history they should know, doubt the present in which  they live and fear the future of which they are ignorant. Asolution to the world's pro-  blems cannot be reached merely by gazing at statistical reports on the poor and the rich,  or recording the percentages of illiterates and literates, or computing the numbers of the  sick and the healthy, or warning of the dangers of population explosion and the increase  in population. For national and international files and drawers are crammed with all  sorts of research papers, studies, figures and statistics, but the problems are not only  accumulating but are actually increasing at an incredible rate.
(15.13) A general mobilization of intellect and conscience in this world is urgently  needed in order to preserve the moral heritage, for modern science with its achievements,  and new means of communication with their overwhelming development, will otherwise be  transformed into instruments of deskruction and ruin, shattering the human individual and  desiroying his identity.
(15.14)  cular, the individual's freedom to participate actively in public life, are an urgent  prerequisite and essential condition for the alleviation of the crisis we are experiencing.
(15.15) We are in need of all the wisdom inherited by humanity at large to save the world  from the menaces confronting it today. We need something close to a miracle in order to  cleanse the face of the earth and remove the grime coating it. All this can only be  achieved through moral and spiritual values. It is through moral and spiritual values,  the basis of individual conduct and international behaviour are established.  by means of these that man's dignity and rights can be restored, in a world in which love  will triumph over hatred and truth over falsehood.  The protection of human rights and preservation of human dignity and, in parti-  It is only  (Mr Whitlam (Australia) took the Chair)
16. The PRESIDENT:  Afzal, Minister for Education and head of the delegation of Pakistan, to take the  floor.  I thank the head of the delegation of Egypt. I now invite Mr Mohammad
17.1 Mr AFZAL (Pakistan) :  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates,  ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed a privilege to attend the twenty-second session  of the General Conference of Unesco and to address this august gathering. Mr  President, ninety-nine delegates have so far offered their congratulations to the  President of the Conference on his unanimous election. My delegation has the  unique privilege of completing the century. His election has been a source of  strength to developing countries and a matter of great pride for all of us. I  would also wish to take this opportunity to extend my congratulations to all those  delegates who have been elected to other offices for the duration of this session.  Our deep appreciation is due to the Director-General for the perception and skill  with which he has guided the Organization and the dedication with which he has  developed it in the light of the ideals of the United Nations and the Constitution  of Unesco.
17.2 The scope, range and intensity of Unesco's programme has increased sub-  stantially over the last biennium making a discernable impact with both qualitative  and quantitative implications. The conceptual framework of the Draft Programme  reflects multifaceted dimensions of the vast and vital area it covers. Over and  above the traditional subject areas we will be devoting attention to futuristic  studies and trends in global issues, taking up the status of women and stressing  the development of the problem-solving capabilities of nations. We in the develop-  ing countries would like to stress the need for the expansion of Unesco activities  with a more visible emphasis on the requirements of those nations who, despite  their resource .constraints, are doing their best to contribute to Unesco's pro-  gramme. We wish to appeal to the developed world to extend more generous co-  operation to this Organization and thereby to contribute effectively to the progress  and development of the Third World. We fully endorse the increase projected in the  Unesco budget, something that we would like to accompany a cost-effective and pro-  ductive utilization of funds to improve the lot of the disadvantaged in the Third  World. It would be a sad day for the ideals of the United Nations and a blow to  the hopes of the underprivileged if a reduction were envisaged in the plans and  projects of Unesco, and if its efforts and ideals withered away for want of  financing.
17.3 Unesco plays the laudable role of an intellectual catalyst in the world.  Besides its significant quantitative contribution,we have to look towards the  immeasurable input in crystallizing ideas that are a leading factor in the intel-  lectual growth of nations. Unesco's aim-to improve the quality of expertise in  the developing world and raise the level of academic participation at all levels  of the system requires an extension of the input in the training and fellowship  programmes and the opportunity for exposure to the best techniques of science and
662    education all over the world that they provide. It is our considered opinion that  this is a cause worthy of the support of nations with a distinguished intellectual  tradition. The transfer of technology is meaningful only in the context of the  transfer of knowl2dge and education capability in science with it.
17.4 A basic determinant of a country's strength is its infrastructure in science  and technology. The world today stands clearly divided into the technologically  advanced, industrialized, prosperous and dominant North on the one hand the  underdeveloped, poverty-afflicted and dependent South on theother. This pre-eminent  position of the North is due primarily to its vastly superior resources of science  and technology, which have been harnessed not only for its own socio-economic  progress, but, unfortunately, also for the imposition and perpetuation-of economic,  social and political inequities on the technologically deprived nations of the  South and for their cultural domination. Bridging the ever-widening technological  gap between the North and the South in our opinion is a prerequisite for rectifying  the serious distortions and imbalances in global economic and cultural relations.  The developing countries have responded to the marked reluctance of countries with  sophisticated technology to share it with others by intensifying their efforts at  devising a common strategy and formulating action programmes for the early allevia-  tion of their technological dependence with a view to acquiring greater control  over their own resources, increasing their share in the international production  and consumption of goods and services, securing equitable terms of trade and achiev-  ing the capability for self-reliant development.
17.5 Today, science and technology have made it possible to achieve a quantum  leap in development and markedly reduce the time span needed by nations and socie-  ties to modernize and join the ranks of developed nations. The developing countries  can certainly do this, given the opportunity, for they have the incentive and the  political will to do so. A rapid advance in science and technology, however, can-  not be achieved without sustained societal support and a breakthrough in mass  literacy and skills coupled with the creation of forward-looking attitudes. Stag-  nant and decadent societies which have suffered from colonial occupation and intel-  lectual strangulation tend to develop an orientation towards past glories instead  of focusing on present opportunities or future challenges, and this results in a  misdirected use of time, energy and resources.
17.6 From its very inception Unesco embarked upon training programmes in basic  and applied sciences, the development of curricula and teaching materials, the  dissemination of scientific information and the formulation of science and tech-  nology policy and its management. This has greatly assisted the developing coun-  tries, including Pakistan, in promoting the indigenous science and technology capa-  bility. As a beneficiary country, Pakistan greatly appreciate Unesco's efforts in  establishing international institute sin important subject areas and linking them  with the regional cen-tres of excellence. The application of science and technology  has helped transform societies, brought prosperity and stabilized economies.
17.7 Pakistan is fully committed to the observance of human rights in conformity  with its faith and ideology, and has lent its unqualified support to the cause. It  is the creed of Islam that all individuals are equal, irrespective of their caste  and colour, and that the only legitimate way of distinguishing between man and man  is personal piety and service to humanity. Pakistan has always been unstinting in  its condemnation of apartheid, racism, colonialism, prejudice, intolerance, poli-  tical discrimination, economic exploitation and the social and cultural subservience  of nations and peoples. We have been unequivocal in our condemnation of acts of  aggression, violence and persecution, wherever they have been committed. Pakistan  deeply appreciates and fully endorses the ideals and endeavours of Unesco in this  regard.
17.8 Moral and spiritual values, Mr President, are among mankind's most valuable  heritage and provide a guarantee for the peace and security of the world. Unesco  has invariably, and rightly, emphasized the need for preserving the cultural heri-  tage of mankind and urged that a moral and spiritual dimension be added to the  definition of culture. We feel it essential to identify, introduce and sustain  spiritual and ethical values in all the educational systems of the world. Unesco's  propagation of education and cultural values is an important contribution to the  security of mankind and to the efforts for peace.
17.9 Culture in our opinion has a wide connotation. It includes the entire  value system encompassing the whole spectrum of human life and activity. The  symbols of all ancient cultures are the common treasure of mankind. If they are  allowed to wither or perish mankind will be the poorer for it.  site of Moenjodaro in Pakistan, in the preservation of whose ancient remains Unesco  has been evincing particular interest, is a case in point. The Director-General  visited Pakistan early this year and made a personal appeal to the world community  from Moenjodaro for contributions to this noble cause. In addition, Unesco has  placed six historical sites and monuments of Pakistan on the World Heritage List,  and has contributed towards the preservation of some of them. The Government of  Pakistan is indeed grateful to the Organization for extending technical and finan-  cial assistance to Pakistan in the field of archaeology.
663  The archaeological
17.10 Unesco's work in the development of endogenous science and technology has  a practical dimension. Various countries and intergovernmental organizations have  benefited from the Organization's advisory services: scores of seminars, working  groups and training courses in advanced research have been organized and attended  by thousands of scientists from developing countries. Unesco has also worked in  close co-operation with other international scientific organizations to provide  developing countries 'with a sound basis for the effective application of science  and tehnology'. The prevailing imbalance in scientific and technical information  availabilities has been a major obstacle to the development of science and tech-  nology in the developing countries. In this sphere, too, Unesco's contribution at  the theoretical and practical levels has been significant. But the emphasis so far  has been on accurately assessing the information needs of the developing countries  and on developing information systems models that can be made a part of the national  development plans.
17.11 In the field of education, I am happy to report that we in Pakistan are  about to complete a study on university educakion and employment: this is a co-  operative venture between the International Institute for Educational Planning, the  University Grants Commission and the Federal Ministry of Education of Pakistan. We  are also grateful to Unesco for assisting in studies in marine biology, and look  foward to a further strengthening of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission  for the promotion of oceanographic studies and the provision of assistance in  managing natural resources in the extended areas of national jurisdiction.
17.12 Mr President, I should like, with all the strength at my command, to endorse  Unesco's clarion call for universal education and its consideration as a major pro-  gramme at this session. Mass education is a major determinant in the social and  economic development in a country. It is an investment in human resource develop-  ment, a key input into the future of any nation. I am confident that Unesco's  efforts will help to motivate the conscience of the world and succeed in obtaining  a commitment from richer nations to help the less developed countries in achieving  universal literacy and mass education for their teeming millions.
17.13 Pakistan lauds the inclusion of the programme on the status of women. The  twofold strategy of working towards the elimination of all forms of discrimination  based on sex and the inclusion in Unesco programmes of measures which benefit acti-  vities for women, is a suitable beginning in defining parameters Education is a  basic right of women. Indeed, in the present era, the education of women has been  and welfare', a description to which Unesco subscribes. The pro pects and implica-  tions of meaningful Unesco activities for women can bring about change, the mere  possibility of which fires the imagination. It is the challenge of the eighties  that women be allowed to enjoy their basic rights, their claim o economic resources,  national ünd international levels. Women must be encouraged to develop their ca-  pacity to respond to the rapid changes being experienced and conqribute to  intellectual and scholastic work.
17.14  tries to usher in a new world information and communication order, Pakistan's vision  of which is vivid and clear. We visualize an order in which information flows not  only froi~, tnr? developed to the developing, but also from the developing to the  developed countries; an order in which information is presented with due regard to  its proper context and without distortion and prejudice, without being pressed into  the service of one 'ism' or the other; an order in which information is seen through  the cultural perceptions of the society to which it pertains, and not through the  rarifying medium of other perceptions; an order in which everyone has a share and  no dependence; and, finally, an order in which the great power of information is put  to serve the cause of world peace, human dignity and progress.
17.15 It was in the context of this perception that Pakistan fully endorsed the  recommendations made by the MacBride Commission and initiated immediate steps to  implement many of them. I hope that our participation in this session of the  General Conference will enhance our ability to further the aims and objectives of  Unesco for the development of communication in our region and in the world at large.
17.16 Mr President, the preservation of distinctive indigenous cultures together  with the achievement of socio-cultural liberation and progressive thinking depend  largely upon the nature of the educational and communication systems provided to a  people and their effective deployment as instruments of economic and cultural  development. We reaffirm our faith in and support for Unesco's initiatives in many  directions. I would like to refer particularly here to the Regional Office in  Bangkok, with its outstanding AsianProgramme of Educational Innovation for Develop-  ment. The centre has done excellent work and brought the exchange of expertise  nearer home through a decentralization of authority. We fully support the philo-  sophy behind such programmes, and would like to reiterate the request of the develop-  ing countries that regional offices be given greater flexibility and greater  authority to accommodate and carry out the projects of their regions.  described as 'one of the best investments a country can make in 1 ts future growth  security, recognition and effective participation in all walks o 1 life at the  Pakistan fully shares the concern and enthusiasm of oth& developing coun-
17.17 Mr President, I have listened with interest to the eloquent speeches made  by distinguished delegates. With your permission, I have a plea to make to the  entire community of Unesco. Unesco is the intellectual conscience of this world;  let us not confuse political and intellectual issues. We have a more than adequate  development, dissemination and further strengthening of intellectual and pragmatic  academic issues which pertain to and are consistent with the Constitution of this  Organization and its commitment to eradicate the darkness of illiteracy, to promote  cultural integrity and to spread scientific and technical expertise.
18. The PRESIDENT:  Zlitni, Secretary of the People's General Committee for Education and head of the  delegation of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, to take the floor.  T1- ulilted - ::ãtioïis foïuïíi foï political issues. Let us use this one for the cultivation,  I thank the head of the delegation of Pakistan. I now invite Mr Abdulhafid
(19.1) Mr ZLITNI (Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya)(Translation from the Arabic):  pleasure, on behalf of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, to greet you on the  occasion of the twenty-second session of this Organization's General Conference. It also  gives me pleasure to congratulate the President on his election to preside over the Con-  ference, and to welcome the States that are gathered here for the first time.
(19.21 It gives me pleasure to thank Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, the Organization's Director-  General, for the efforts he is making, in collaboration with the Executive Board, to carry  out the mission of the Organization. I would like to express to him my great satisfaction  at the clarity of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985. We also commend the acti-  vities carried out by Unesco's Regional Office for Education in the Arab States and call  upon the Director-General to strengthen it in order to enable it in the future to expand  its activities and carry these out more effectively.
(19.3) It grieves us, Mr President, to hear of the earthquake by which our fellow people,  the Turks, have been afflicted today. On behalf of my country's delegation, I present my  sincerest condolences to our Turkish colleagues, and I call upon Unesco to act as its duty  requires under such painful circumstances.
(19.4) Mr President, Unesco's twenty-second session is being held in a situation  characterized by increasing opposition, the aggravation of several global political,  economic and social crises, the imperialist powers' desire to return to old areas of in-  fluence and acquire new ones, and an increasing feeling of insecurity in the nations of  the world as a result of the policies adopted by the colonialist powers - policies based  on the threat and use of force. The Israeli invasion of Lebanon's territory, massacring  its citizens and destroying its geographic unity, and the American invasion and forceful  subjugation of Grenada demonstrate that the policies of these states are characterized by  the generation of instability and the use of aggression against independent states with  the aim of intimidating their peoples and denying them the use of their own resources for  development and progress.
(19.5) Furthermore, American threats to, and intimidation of, my country, in the form  of direct aggression and economic pressures, as well as repeated provocation by its fleets  along the Libyan coastline and near the Gulf of Sidra, penetration by its military planes  into Libyan airspace for overflight activites, and military manoeuvres near our borders,  must be regarded not only as a threat to Libyan national sovereignty, but also as a threat  to the region's security and to the stability of world peace.  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, it gives me great
(19.6) Mr President, these conditions have become the characteristic feature of our con-  temporary world, becoming more firmly rooted and increasing in intensity day by day,  thereby constituting a real challenge to the survival of humanity. An attempt to under-  'stand and define these problems, in a spirit of sincerity, free from intolerance and bias,  is enjoined upon us in view of the human responsibility and the scientific and cultural  mission entrusted to Unesco. This is clearly indicated in the objectives of Major Pro-  g r a m e  I, with its constructive recommendations regarding the creation of a network of  analytical studies and reseascb, and the establishment of the conceptual framework necess-  ary for the presentation of a comprehensive. international, future-oriented study in this  connection. My country's delegation expresses its satisfaction with these concerns,  supports the activities to be implemented under this programe and declares its readiness  to co-operate with the Organization in reaching a broader, more detailed understanding of  world problems and their causes. Unesco, which represents the living conscience of the  international community and the wellspring of the human community's wisdom, reason and  thought, should not stand idly by in the face of these challenges which threaten the world  with annihilation and destruction; rather it should stand up against these trends and face  up to its responsibilities with courage and wisdom, paying no heed to the financial and  moral pressures which may be brought to bear upon it. For in this world in which the  struggle between the forces of good and evil have intensified, Unesco must stand by what  is right.
(19.7) Mr President, our position has been, and still remains, one of support for the  Medium-Term Plan with regard to the principles, methods and strategies of action for  development which it has adopted and which aim at Unesco's participation in the establish-  ment of a new international economic order. We do, however, attach great importance to  this plan's contribution to the investigation of external influences on development,  particularly such phenomena as hegemony and economic subjection in their difPerent forms,  and the negative impact of the activities of foreign and transnational corporations, as  well as the inequitable conditions of international trade and the ensuing sterile mono-  polistic system of international settlements. The endeavour to examine these phenomena  and clarify their effects is a basic prerequisite for the success of development plans  and their proposed methods, enabling the nations of the world to mobilize their economic  resources and strengthen their capacity to provide for the needs of their people in terms  of food, clothing, housing, education and health care.
(19.8) Mr President, the attainment of a new and more equitable international economic  order and Unesco's contribution to the attainment of this goal through studies and re-  search on current and future-oriented development plans, the co-ordination of these plans  in terms of their economic, political, social and cultural aims and the reconciliation of  these often contradictory aims, are a fundamental matter. This is the objective of Major  Programme VI11 of the Dïaft Programme and Budget. It is just as important, however, for  the plan to include among its priorities the search for radical solutions in the analysis  of economic problems, and the definition of the philosophical, intellectual, moral and  natural bases which should underpin the organization of economic relations among men,  whether on the level of single groups or the level of the international community. Mr  President, we in the Jamahiriya are prepared to support the Organization's efforts and  activities in this domain through the Green Book (Al-kitab al-Akhdar) Research and Study  Centre in the Jamahiriya, to the work of which a large number of the world's leading  intellectuals contribute.
(19.9) Mr President, my delegation would like to express its complete satisfaction with  the Organization's efforts and future-oriented approaches with regard to the investiga-  tion of phenomena relating to the breakdown of peace, factors working against peace, ways  and means of overcoming these and necessary preparations for the preservation and strength-  ing of a just and constructive peace at the community, society and world level, all within  Unesco's fields of competence. Mr President, we agree with the analyses provided in the  Plan and in Major Programmes XII and XII1 of the Draft Programme and their various sub-  programmes. We would like to affirm in this connection, that real world peace can never  be established at a time when human rights are being violated and the rights of peoples  trampled upon through intimidation and the use of force, a time when racism and apartheid  thrive, when colonialism in both its old and new forms is gaining strength, when sub-  jugated people are repressed and the cries of their liberation movements demanding  freedom, justice and self-determination, silenced.
(19.10) When my country, which is a part of the great Arab nation, raises its voice in  support of freedom everywhere and in an appeal for peace with its glorious spiritual and  human values, it speaks out of historical experience that is still vivid in the minds of  Libyans. For Fascist Italy committed unforgivable crimes against the Libyan Arab people.  It attacked that people with its fleets and guns, destroying Libyan homes. resources and  land. Troops of martyrs died unjustly on its gallows: in the span of thirty-five years  of colonization, control and racial discrimination, it killed and executed over seven  hundred thousand people. The proponents of Fascist, racist and colonialist policies in  the world today should learn from the lessons of history. For these inhuman and un-  ethical policies are doomed to extinction, and sooner or later, governments that have  pursued and continue to pursue them will pay a heavy price.
(19.11) With regard to the great Arab nation, my country's delegation supports the  Director-General's efforts to implement the resolutions adopted by the General Conference  calling for an end to the Zionist racist and despotic policy against educational and cul-  tural institutions in Palestine and the occupied territories. It calls upon this  Conference to take decisive resolutions against Zionist tampering with the cultural  heritage of the holy city of Jerusalem and against the phenomenon of Zionism, which the  United Nations, in its resolution of 10 November 1975, denounced as a form of racism and  racial discrimination. We hope, Mr President, that the Conference will hear the full text  of the Unesco mission's report, as well as that of UNRWA, on this matter.
(19.121 Mr President, my country's delegation supports the lines of emphasis of document
22 C/16 on the implementation of the resolution on cultural and scientific co-operation  adopted by the General Conference at its last session. Our delegation would also like to  express its satisfaction with the Organization's activities. These constitute a contri-  bution to cultural and scientific co-operation - an important factor in the promotion of  peace, friendship and mutual understanding between peoples - through international agree-  ments and recommendations aimed at enhancing the mobility of students, teachers and  researchers and encouraging the recognition of studies, diplomas and degrees.
(19.13) On the basis of the Jamahiriya's belief in the principle of co-operation between  peoples in the fields of education, science and culture, we have concluded a large number  of cultural agreements providing for the exchange of experience and information. We have  also offered numerous academic scholarships on all levels to several states. In agree-  ment with the authorities of this Organization, my country, this year, allocated a number  of academic scholarships to be distributed amongst outstanding students in Third World  states. We have also provided several Third World countries with scientific equipment,  books and teaching aids, besides supporting various universities, institutes and research  centres for the sake of science and knowledge.
(19.14) Mr President, it grieves us, in this connection, to note the arbitrary decision  of the current American administration's immigration authorities on Mazch 11th of this  year, prohibiting Libyan students in American universities from pursuing studies in the  fields of civil aviation and nuclear energy and obliging them to change their fields of  specialization or to leave the country, on the pretext that knowledge in these fields is  a threat to the safety and security of the United States. This decision has been issued  despite the legitimate situation of these students, who have complied with all relevant  conditions, rules and legal and administrative requirements, and despite the fact that  the education and knowledge they receive in no way differs from that received by the  other American and foreign students at American Universities. We consider the American  administration's action in preventing these Libyan students - whom we are preparing for  teaching positions at Libyan universities - from continuing their studies and pursuing  their scientific education at such an advanced stage in their studies to be a dictatorial  act, incompatible with the laws and standards called for by Unesco regarding freedom of  education as a human right and with the concept of equality of opportunity for all re-  gardless of colour, race, religion or sex. Our position in this matter, Mr President,  has been supported by numerous American universities and teaching institutions, which  have condemned the decision and called for its withdrawal on the grounds that everyone  has a natural right to knowledge and may not be deprived of that right under any pretext.
(19.15) Mr President, my country's delegation stresses the importance of co-operation  and solidarity among Member States in strengthening and supporting this Organization. In  this connection, we have co-operated and continue to co-operate with the Organization in  the implementation of numerous important scientific and cultural projects. We declare  our support of the Draft Programme and Budget, with the proposed rates of growth, and we  would also like to invite all states participating in this Conference to support and  adopt it. Thank you Mr President.
20. The PRESIDENT:  Jamahiriya. The delegation of the United States of America has asked for the floor.
21. Mr HENNELLY (United States of America):  I request the right to reply in response to his remarks.  I thank the head of the delegation of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab  Mr President, since the delegate of Libya has attacked my country by name,
22.1 The PRESIDENT:  in the general policy debate. I now invite H.E. Mr Roman Nároznp, Vice-Minister for  Foreign Affairs and the head of the delegation of Czechoslovakia, to take the floor.  You will have the right of reply at the end of this afternoon's statements
23.13 II0 TpmEIi&HH Ha XOpOrrieM ypOBHe COCTaBJIeHH nporpam, OTHOCRrWeCff K 06naCTH
06pa3o~a~sn. 3TO TeM 6onee BaXHO, PTO 6e3 BCeCTOPOHHeTO pa3BATMR 06pa30saH~ff H  BOCnHTaHHR HeJïb3R pemaTb OCHOBHble I I ~ O ~ J I ~ M ~ T  COBpeMeHHOCTH . OHECKO HOJ'ITHa COAefiCTBO-  BaTb pacmHpeHHm npoqecca 06pa30~aHHn , cocpenoTosaTb CBOH yc~n~çi Ha 60pb6e c  He rP aMOT HOC T bm a0 6H BaT bCR BCeCT OP OH Hefi ,F,qeMo~paTH 3aUHH o6pa3 OBaHHIR . CoAepXa HHe  KpWIHbIX IïpOWaMMI OTHOCRUHXCR K 06JIaCTH O ~ ~ ~ ~ O B ~ H H R ,  IïpOHHKHYTO OCHOBHOfi MbICJïbIü  o TOM, YTO BocnHTaHHe II 06pa30~a~ne, B C~UHOCTH, HanpaBneHbi Ha CTpoM-TenbcTBo
6y~yuero 06qeCTBa , Ha coAe8cTBHe ocyUecTsneHnm C B R ~ ~ H H ~ I X  c BTEM COLpïaJIbHO-3KOHO-  MklqecKnx nepeMeH. He B H ~ ~ I B ~ ~ T  CoMHeHMff MeponpmnuR no nanbHeftmeMy noBmneHmo pona
23.14 CJIeayeT YneTIHTb BHHMaHHe H BOnpOCaM B3aHMOCBR3H MMHY 06pa30BaHHeM H np0-  M3BOAHTeJlbHbiM TPYAOM. B 3TOR o6na.cTH I no MHeHHiû HaIliHX CneIJHaJIHCTOB, npOeKT np0-  r p a m  eqe HywJaeTCn B COBepüIeHCTBOBaHHH.
(23.7) Mr NAROZNY (Czechoslovak Socialist Republic) (Translation from the Russian):  of the Czechoslovak delegation to congratulate you on your election as President of the  twenty-second session of the General Conference of Unesco. I am sure that under your  guidance the Conference will achieve good results and will contribute to fulfilment of  the tasks confronting our Organization, in which the peoples of the world place such  hope. I wish to assure you that the Czechoslovak delegation will make every effort to  contribute to the success of our session.
(23.2) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the twenty-second session is taking place  at a complex juncture where the future of mankind is being decided.  and technological potential af mankind be used to humane ends, for overcoming global  problems and the betterment of each human being?  its capacities, its creative and technological potential, on production of the means of  waging a destructive nuclear war and make such a war more feasible than ever before?  Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlement, allow me on behalf  Will the scientific  Or will mankind be obliged to expend
(23.3) Imperialism, which is the prime cause of the over-growing inequality between  people, countries and continents, represents a basic threat to all mànkind. For it permits  a situation where one state dares unceremoniously to proclaim entire regions of the world  to be spheres of its 'vital interests' and thereby to justify its aggressive aspirations.  The cynicism of the policy of that state lies in the fact that slogans of freedom,  democracy and protection of human rights are used to cover attempts to stifle national  liberation movements in Latin America, Asia and Africa. With the aid of such slogans  dictatorial regimes are established, new hotbeds of war are created and acts of aggression  are justified, as is shown by the intervention of the United States of America against  Grenada. The naval forces of that country hold seas and oceans under their control and,  resorting to a 'gunboat policy', threaten the countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America.  Its air forces are constantly present in the airspace of all continents, grossly violating  the airspace of other states, and its military bases are scattered throughout the world.  The Government of the United States has set,out on the dangerous and adventuristic path  of gearing its policy to the achievement of military supremacy, deploying new, lethal  weapons in Europe and waging a 'crusade' against the 'evil empire', as the White House  calls socialism. But the United States Government is forgetting,that the Middle Ages are  over for good. In various corners of the world, demands are making themselves heard even  more insistently in support of peace, against any form of oppression, for a just and  democratic community of peoples and for a world without war.
(23.4) We are convinced that the worsening of -the international situation could have  been avoided.
(23.5) The socialist countries are constantly intensifying their efforts to find a way  out of the present dangerous international situation. This is attested by the initiatives  contained in the Prague Declaration of the Political Consultative Committee of the Warsaw  Treaty member states and developed in the course of subsequent meetings of the leaders of  those countries. These peace initiatives are intended primarily to avert a nuclear dis-  aster and are based on the socialist countries' proposal for a treaty on the mutual non-  application of military force and the maintenance of peaceful relations between the states  belonging to the Warsaw Treaty and the member states of NATO.
(23.6) The policy of aétente produced a number of concrete results with positive re-  percussions on the life of each person on earth and quite clearly became a historical gain  of the peoples. Naturally, therefore, the whole of progressive society is coming formrd  in defence of peace and against a fresh escalation of the arms race. The might of the  international peace movement convincingly confirms that the peoples of the world have no  wish to fall victims to a nuclear disaster. Clear evidence of this was provided by the  World Assembly held in Prague on the theme 'For peace and life, against nuclear war',  attended by several thousand people of different political convictions, philosophical  outlooks and faiths from 132 countries. These women, men and young people, were united  by the one common aim of preserving peace and life and removing the possibility of a  nuclear disaster.
(23.7) We highly appreciate the active participation of Unesco in the work of that world  forum. The results of the meetings of education workers held in Prague under the auspices  of Unesco represent an inspiring basis for the future guidance of Unesco's activity in the  field of peace education.
(23.8) In the present complex international situation the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organization is becoming increasingly important. We note with  satisfaction that our Organization, actively concerned as it is with solving the pressing  problems of today, has acquired a great deal of authority. Unesco has a unique role in  the United Nations system and is rightly called its laboratory of ideas. The fact that  the Organization occupies such a prominent position means that it bears a great deal of  responsibility for the fate of the world's development. Hence we cannot agree with the  assertions sometimes put forward that the activity of the Organization should be confined  to a narrow range of issues and the whole of its powerful potential addressed to technical  matters only. On the contrary, Unesco must always think globally, carefully examine the  present problems of mankind, define the most important of them and direct the activity of  the Organization towards solving them. It is necessary here to be consistently guided by  the provisions and principles of Unesco's Constitution and to remember the basic task of  the Organization, which is to contribute to peace and security by promoting collaboration  among the nations through education, science and culture.
(23.9) It is in this very direction that Unesco's activity is guided by the Second  Medium-Term Plan, adopted nearly a year ago at the fourth extraordinary session of the  General Conference of Unesco. It focuses attention chiefly on the main, global problems  of mankind. It also rightly places them in order of priorityand, with the aid of inter-  linked interdisciplinary programmes, determines Unesco's contribution to their solution.  What we consider most important is the fact that the Medium-Term Plan provides for the  further active participation of Unesco in international efforts aimed at securing peace,  halting the arms race and promoting disarmament. There can surely be no more urgent and  vitally important task than that.
(23.10) In working out the Organization's Programme and Budget for 1984-1985, the  approved Medium-Term Plan must be constantly borne in mind. In document 22 C/5 this plan  should be divided up into separate.programme action components with their financial  appropriations.
(23.11) Mr President, distinguished delegates, the personnel of Czechoslovak educational  institutions and scientific and cultural establishments haue made a careful study of  Unesco's proposed Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985. The conclusion is that on  the whole we commend that preparatory work by the Secretariat of the Organization and,  above all, by the Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow. From our point of view, the  document is well prepared, and positive features are prevalent in it. In most of the  major programmes the Draft Programme consistently draws upon the Medium-Term Plan. We  are nevertheless obliged to observe that in some important programmes (Major Programmes  III and XIII) a revision of the Medium-Term Plan has been tolerated.  we consider it essential to introduce a number of amendments in order to bring document
22 C/5 into line with the already approved Medium-Term Plan.  In this connection,
(23.12) Unesco's Programme and Budget for 1984-1985 is the first programe compiled on  the basis of the Second Medium-Term Plan. This fact ought to be reflected in Major  Programme I 'Reflection on world problems and future-oriented studies', which contains  a firm methodological basis for Unesco's activity, that is, a consistent scientific exam-  ination of world problems. Since this programme is exceedingly important to the entire  United Nations system, a study should be made initially of the fundamental problems of  the day, such as averting the threat of war, and overcoming the economic backwardness of  the developing countries, and matters of all-round world development, including increased  international co-operation and environmental issues. The study of the global problems Of  mankind must be conducted on an uninterrupted basis.
(23.13) The programmes on education match up to a traditionally high standard. This is  particularly important since without the all-round development of education and training  there can be no coming to terms with the basic problems of the day. Unesco should assist  the extension of the educational process, focus its attention on the struggle against  illiteracy and strive for the all-round democratization of education. The major pro-  grammes relating to education are imbued with the basic idea that education and training  are, in essence, directed towards building the future society and bringing about the  socio-economic changes involved. We fully endorse the measures to enhance the role of  education in society.
(23.14) Attention should be given to the relationship between education and productive  work. In this area, in the opinion of our specialists, the Draft Programme still needs  improving.
(23.15) A great deal of emphasis must be placed on the interdependence of democratization  of the education process and the struggle against racism, together with the problems of  preserving peace and disarmament.  forms of non-formal education. Intensive use is being made for these purposes of such  media as television, radio and the cinema. The time they occupy often exceeds the dura-  tion of formal school instruction. It is understandable in this situation that non-  formal education should not infrequently have a decisive influence on the moulding of the  individual. Unesco Member States should endeavour to combine formal and non-formal types  of education and establish a unified educational system. Unesco should assist Member  States in settling what, as we see it, is a key aspect of education.
(23.16) The field of the natural and social sciences occupies a special place in Unesoo's  programme. In the field of the natural sciences extremely useful international co-  operation has developed in recent years. The basic programmes in geology, hydrology, the  environment and oceanography have fully justified themselves. We therefore fully support  their further development in document 22 C/5.  clusion in the programme of important new projects relating to microbiology, power  engineering and information. In the past certain shortcomings were to be found in the  preparation of measures in the social sciences. An improvement in the situation will  undoubtedly be assisted by the new Medium-Term Plan as regards the elaboration of social  and scientific issues. The importance given these matters is attested by the fact that  five maior prograriuiies are devoted to them.
(23.17) Despite the progress made, there are a number of shortcomings in these major  programmes. Considerably more attention should be given to the moral responsibility of  scientists in not tolerating use of the achievements of science to the detriment of the  interests of mankind. Nor is there any mention of the role and responsibility of scien-  tists in action to avert a nuclear disaster and strengthen peace.  We are today witnessing the rapid expansion of various  No less important in our view is the in-
24. The PRESIDENT :  Mrs A, Rodas de Fiallos, Minister of Education and head of the delegation of Honduras,  to take the floor.  I thank the head of the delegation of Czechoslovakia. I now invite H.E.
(25.1) Mrs RODAS DE FIALLOS (Honduras) (Translation from the Spanish):  ladies and gentlemen: on behalf of the delegation of Honduras, may I congratulate the  President, the Vice-presidents and the Chairmen of the Commissions on the distinction  thus conferred upon them in this great assembly. We have no doubt that they will carry  out their tasks with the greatest efficiency.
(25.2) Mr President, we have studied the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985,  which fits in with the conceptual framework laid down by the General Conference at its  fourth extraordinary meeting. On behalf of the Honduran Delegation, may I Congratulate  the Director-Generai and his staff in the Secretariat for this magnificient piece of work.
(25.3) The Medium-Term Plan contains all the basic material required to identify and  discuss issues of immediate concern to the world as a whole, as well as problems which,  at the regional level, affect large sectors of populations known as.the least developed.  We believe that this approach is one way of maintaining a national and international  balance which will guarantee peace and understanding among peoples. We welcome the  efforts made to co-ordinate the various proposed programmes at intersectoral level with a  view to the integrated planning of activities, also the particular care taken to ensure  continued coordination when the programmed activities come to be implemented. Furthermore,  we would like to see all these efforts produce practical results through co-operation with  other bodies and institutions carrying out programmes in our countries, which are often  ineffective because of their isolated nature. Mr Presiäent, in Honduras we are striving  to co-ordinate technical and financial assistance, and we heartily welcome all steps in  that direction.
(25.4) We are impressed by Major Programme II, 'Education for all', which states that  'the right to education must be made a reality both as a fundamental right of individuals,  regardless of their age, sex, social, ethical or racial grouping and as a prerequisite  for the progress of societies.' The struggle against illiteracy, which concerns all the  school age population, combined with an improvement in school education and a well  organized plan for adult literacy, gives hope for a more promising future for present and  future generations. We are well aware that all countries, some more than others, are  faced with grave problems due to worldwide economic and political conditions today. What  is more, many of us have to contend with a high level of illiteracy and population  growth rates which leave us no choice but to put our faith in man's ability to find  specific ways of tackling the great challenge of the future. For this reason, Mr  President, we support the contents of Major Programme IV; 'The formulation and applica-  tion of educational policies', especially Programme IV.l, 'Contribution to the formula-  tion and application of education policies and strengthening of national capacities with  regard to educational planning, management, administration and economics', and Programme  IV.3,'Policies and methods for the training of educational personnel'.
(25.5) With regard to Programme V.3, 'Education and the world of work', we recognize  that our education system does not adequately prepare our school-leavers for the world of  work, whether this be in a factory, an office or work on the land. Much time is lost,  and they are not given the opportunity to acquire an appropriate technology which would  improve productivity and reduce technological dependence.
(25.6) Last but not least, Mr President, speaking as a woman may I say how much I wel-  come the inclusion of Major Programe XIV, 'The Status of women', which stresses the  need to make it possible for women to participate on an equal footing in carrying out the  activities envisaged in all the major programmes in the Draft Programme and Budget for
1984-1985. I hope that it will be possible to hold the international symposium on the  exercise of the right of women to education and employment, so that by tackling the matter  from a technical angle, we can lay the foundations for identifying the economic, social  and cultural obstacles to equality between men and women.
(25.7) The Honduran Delegation stakes its hopes on the adoption of the Draft Programme  and Budget for 1984-1985, because its implementation will do much to solve the many pro-  blems besetting our country, especially as regards the provision of education. Our hope  is based on our firm awareness of belonging to a family of nations in which the needs of  each aresharedbyall, andonourbeliefin Unescoand itsfundamentalprinciples. It gives us  great pleasure to attend the twenty-second session of the General Conference, as repre-  sentatives of the Government and people of Honduras, in the knowledge that events such as  this strengthen the ties of fellowship between the countries of the world and enable us,  Mr President, Mr Representative of the Director-General, distinguished delegates,  II
677    by means of sincere dialogue, to seek solutions to a number of problems in education,  science and culture which affect our countries, particularly the least developed ones,  which account for a large proportion of the world's population. We come from one of the  least developed countries, Honduras, a land of barely 112,000 square kilometres, with a  population of about four million people estimated to increase annually by 3.4%, situated  in the heart of Central America and bordering on the Republics of Guatemala, El Salvador  and Nicaragua. The people of Honduras are thorough peace-loving, and have chosen the  pakh of participative democracy, the pcomotion of civic liberties, guaranteed human rights,  and respect for organizations truly representative of workers, peasants and newly emerging  groups, also complete freedom of the press, of religion and of expression wKXch, in turn,  implies respect for the principle of self-determination of all peoples. Honduras has a  representative government, freely elected by the people on the direct vote of more than
80% of the electorate, àn unprecedented figure in the country's history. The democracy  which governs the destiny of our country has proved a positive experience for more than  a generation of citizens, who believe that economic and social development can be achieved  provided that institutions remain stable in a context of freedom, understanding and mutual  respect among peoples. We have firmly resolved to promote a policy which will reinstate  values, raise moral standards and promote public spiritedness through a redistribution of  existing resources so as to satisfy the urgent aspirations of our people by offering them  the possibility of better living conditions. We feel it iS essential to extend basic  services to those sectors of the population which have been traditionally excluded from  them, and which demand the minimum conditions necessary to live a decent life, worthy of  human beings.
(25.8) Admittedly the activities launched have been seriously affected by particular  setbacks and even more by the world economic crisis, which has been especially hard on  the less developed countries. To this should be added the vast numbers of men and women  who, because of the internal political turmoil in neighbouring countries, come to Honduras  seeking protection, tranquillity, health and education in our friendly land, which today  as in the past, gives them a generous and fraternal welcome. Honduras, a peace-loving  country by tradition, firmly believes that the Unesco ideals are still valid, and that  only by giving our people a better education shall we be able to achieve or maintain the  tranquillity and peace which all countries deserve; education is the only way to bring  about the development to which all have a legitimate right.
(25.9) The situation of conflict in Central America is well known. Sister countries  which not only belong to the same subregion, but also share the same development problems,  have become enmeshed in internal strife which has gone beyond the political arena to  become a military confrontation. At the heart of this tragic situation lies the people's  desperate quest for solutions to their problems, and we recognise each people's right to  this quest.
(25.10) We in Honduras, taking democracy as our starting point, democracy as our path  forward and democracy as our final objective, are actively seeking ways of building, once  and for all, a just, harmonious and united society in which all will participate in their  different social spheres in achieving the society that all Hondurans deserve. We shall  maintain our peaceful search for our own solutions, just as we respect the approach taken  by other countries, as long as they respect the democratic system of a free exchange of  ideas and experience on which we set such store. We shall therefore defend our own choice,  but as believers in living together in peace, we shall never commit aggression against our  neighbours, while insisting on our right to live our lives in the way we have chosen.
(25.11) The Honduran Government has responded to its oommitment to the majority of the  popuiation with a global programe covering the most urgent social, economic and political  needs; we are thus embarking on a government programme consisting of a series of practical  measures planned for the short, medium and long term. Here the Government's basic concern  has been to address itself to the entire range of the country's complex educational pro-  blems, reflected in both qualitative and quantitative deficiences, our aim being to  enforce the right to education of all sectors of the population. We are trying to èxtend.  basic education to include all the school age population, and to find ways of increasing  enrolment and reducing the number of dropouts. We believe we are thus. preparing the  ground for future generations, who in their turn will be responsible for consolidating  what we have done.
(25.12) We have given high priority to solving the problem of illiteracy, which in  Honduras affects 42.58, of the population over the age of ten. We are aware that  illiteracy is linked with other social, economic, political and cultural disadvantages  which severely reduce an individual's chances of economic and social advancement. Our  national literacy plan aims to teach 80% of all illiterate Hondurans to read and write  over a period of five years; it includes the provision of adult education facilities, so  that there will be no cut-off to the education process. Our literacy training schemes  are designed to impart an understanding of democracy as a conscious and participätive  process in keeping with our type of society. Today we can proudly claim to have taken  the first step. All classes of people, leaders, the illiterate, voluntary workers,  students and teachers have answered the call for literacy; recognition has now been given  to the value of our work, which has meant setting up the technical and administrative  structures required to draw up a strategy for literacy, not merely a single campaign,  a plan which can be developed in the medium term, backed with all the necessary resources  and equipment. We in Honduras therefore welcome the adoption of the objectives of the  Major Project on Education in Latin America and the Caribbean and we congratulate Unesco  on its sound judgment in sponsoring this excellent project for the countries of the region.
(25.13) However, the genuine effort made by the people of Honduras in their justified  desire to be free of illiteracy has received very little international support, especially  from bodies which by their very nature are committed to backing measures to strengthen  peace, friendship, understanding and the promotion of human rights in all countries. We  nevertheless feel that the experiences has been worthwhile, since it has enabled us to
678    devise a literacy plan with its own individual features, based on our own efforts and  using our own resources to overcome difficulties.  tribution of incomes, fully conscious participation in political life and an improvement  in agricultural productivity are all ways of improving the standard of living of our rural  populations and also of marginalized groups.
(25.14) Mr President, we wish to state categorically that Honduras places its faith and  hopes in Unesco, in its underlying principles, in international co-operation as a means  towards understanding and fellowship among nations, and in the certainty that co-operation  and understanding will help to satisfy many of the legitimate aspirations of the world's  have-nots, who look for help to those who have. Thank you, Mr Presi-dent.  We firmly believe that a better dis-
26. The PRESIDENT :  Shamir, Minister of Plenitpotentiary, Permanent Delegate to Unesco and head of the  delegation of Israel, to take the floor.
27.1 M. SHAMIR (Israël) :  le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, j'espère que soufflera  sur cette Conférence un esprit de concorde, digne de cette Maison de toutes les  cultures et digne de notre Organisation chargée de si nobles tâches. Je nous sou-  haite 5 tous plein succès dans l'accomplissement de cette mission essentielle. I1  est certain qu'ainsi orientée, la présente session de la Conférence générale mar-  quera une étape importante dans la vie de l'organisation. La culture n'ayant pas  de frontières, elle en revêtira d'autant plus d'éclat.
27.2 Aussi ne vais-je pas user du temps de cette noble audience pour m'élever  contre les allégations non fondées qui ont été faites ici par plusieurs orateurs  et y répondre. Les termes employés par certains contre un Etat membre, mon pays,  ne devraient pas avoir leur place dans notre enceinte.
27.3 "I1 faut entrer dans l'esprit de son temps, afin d'agir sur cet esprit",  écrivait Chateaubriand. En effet, s'agissant de la situation mondiale, il est grand  temps d'exercer une action positive sur les esprits. Après tant de sang versé, tant  de souffrances humaines, il est du devoir de notre Organisation de conduire l'éduca-  tion, la culture et la science vers une évolution de toute la communauté internatio-  nale, certes, mais particulièrement dans notre région.
27.4 Lorsque ]'ai présenté mes lettres de créance à M. Le Directeur général,  il a eu la gentillesse de m'éclairer en me disant que l'originalité propre de  l'Unesco est l'ouverture et le dialogue entre Etats membres. Notre Organisation  donnerait un bel exemple au monde si les représentants de différents régimes et  cultures commençaient au moins à s'adresser la parole, à se saluer, à se parler  dans leurs langues. Ne serait-ce pas humain, ne serait-ce pas élémentaire ? A  l'inverse, est-il tolérable qu'une organisation comme l'Unesco, avec la vocation  qui est la sienne, montre l'exemple des incompr6hensions ?
27.5 La Conférence générale n'est pas seulement un forum où chacun peut faire  entendre sa voix. Elle doit être un lieu privilégié de rencontres où s'exprime ia  diversité des cultures et'âes langues. Elle est surtout le lieu du dialogue et de  la négociation, où s'élabore, par la voie du consensus et dans le cadre d'un pro-  gramme concerté, une stratégie commune pour répondre aux défis de notre temps.
27.6 A mon sens, l'Unesco doit être la conscience de notre monde, ayant comme  arme la puissance des intelligences. Quelle conscience permet de s'ignorer les uns  et les autres ? Est-il concevable que la puissance des intelligences soit mise au  service de la haine ? Pour préserver, pour épanouir la spécificité de notre Orga-  nisation, il faut respecter certaines exigences de base sans lesquelles on risque  de perdre à terme la confiance et la foi que le monde prête à l'Unesco.
27.7 J'appelle donc, Mesdames et Messieurs, non seulement à un renouveau des  esprits, mais à un changement d'esprit. Ou, si vous voulez, à un retour aux sources  de l'Unesco. Car l'Acte constitutif de notre Organisation reflète l'immense espoir  qui succédait au cauchemar de la Deuxième Guerre mondiale. Après la période de  l'obscurantisme nazi, les massacres et les destructions, les fondateurs de l'Unesco  ont inscrit dans le préambule de l'Acte constitutif la lutte contre le racisme - et vous savez qui en étaient les victimes principales - la libre poursuite de la  vérité objective et le libre échange des idées et des connaissances.
27.8 Permettez-moi, Monsieur le Directeur général, de rappeler ici les décla-  rations que vous avez faites à la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale :  "Dansune organisation dont les objectifs relèvent de domaines tels que l'éducation,  la science et la culture, nous devons éviter au sein de la Conférence générale cer-  taines oppositions qui prennent l'allure de confrontations systématiques, et peut-  être même l'adoption de résolutions, fût-ce à de fortes majorités, qui laisseraient  une profonde amertume chez quelques-uns. Ce dont nous avons le plus besoin, c'est  d'une disponibilité permanente au dialogue."  I thank the head of the delegation of Honduras and invite H.E. Mr Meir  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  '1 1
27.9 Vous avez vous-même redit, Monsieur le Directeur général, ces paroles  devant l'Académie diplomatique internationale en 1978 en ajoutant que,dans votre  Afrique natale, la tradition de l'unanimité demeure vivante. Lorsqu'un problème  se pose, avez-vous dit, il est d'usage qu'il soit discuté en commun par tous les  intéressés, chacun faisant valoir son point de vue et essayant de convaincre les  autres jusqu'à ce que, petit à petit, l'accord se fasse sur une solution acceptée  par tous.
27.10 Si vous me permettez une note personnelle, les sept années que j'ai pas-  sées dans trois pays différents d'Afrique occidentale ont marqué ma façon de  penser. Cette rencontre avec d'autres cultures, cette expérience enrichissante,  m'a enseigné que,certes, l'homme est un sujet merveilleusement divers - comme l'a  si bien dit Montaigne - mais tellement pareil dans sa diversité.
27.11 L'homme est l'avenir de l'homme et nous, ici, pourrons certainement  contribuer, avant tout par l'éducation et la science, à améliorer le sort de nos  semblables.
27.12 NOUS, en Israël, nous avons tout d'abord voulu subvenir aux besoins pre-  miers de l'homme, en nous efforçant de transformer un pays désertique en un pays  florissant. Ensuite, nous avons partagé nos expériences avec les peuples du Tiers  Monde, dans le cadre du projet majeur sur les zones arides de l'Unesco, ainsi que  dans le cadre d'accords bilatéraux. Aujourd'hui, nous avons toujours des accords  culturels et scientifiques avec bon nombre de pays dans différents domaines, dont  l'alphabétisation et l'enseignement agricole, et tout spécialement des accords de  coopération concernant la lutte contre la désertification, l'irrigation, etc.
27.13 Ma proposition concrète, Monsieur le Président, vise à accroître l'action  de l'Unesco dans ces domaines, car, après tout, le transfert des connaissances est  surtout une question d'éducation. Cette action doit répondre aux souhaits des  Etats qui désirent accélérer la formation de leurs cadres éducatifs et techniques,  en fonction des caractéristiques et des besoins particuliers de chacun des Etats  intéressés. I1 faut commencer par des projets modestes, surtout à l'échelle rurale,  avec des moyens simples, qui ont un grand impact sur la vie quotidienne de la com-  munauté qui en bénéficie.
27.14 Réduite à un certain niveau de généralité, l'affirmation de grands prin-  cipes n'exerce guère d'influence sur l'action. Elle risque même de nous éloigner  de notre rôle propre et de décevoir les peuples en développement, qui ont des  besoins urgents et qui attendent mieux de nous. Les Romains disaient "Primum  vivere, inde philosophare". Nous devons songer tout d'abord aux besoins et aux  exigences de l'homme qui ont un caractère vital et vaincre le fléau de la faim qui  souvent découle de l'ignorance.
27.15 L'Unesco n'est pas en mesure de remplacer les Etats ou de substituer sa  coopération à celle qui doit exister entre les Etats. Elle n'en a ni les moyens,  ni le pouvoir. Mais elle est bien placée pour jouer un rôle particulièrement im-  portant en conseillant aux Etats des orientations utiles et en les encourageant  à s'organiser en vue d'une coopération libre et efficace. Ce qui est primordial,  c'est notre prise de conscience d'un sage équilibre entre la réflexion et l'action,  une prise de conscience qui pourra rejaillir sur toutes les communautés mondiales.
11 est de notre devoir de l'inculquer dans les esprits d'une facon durable et pro-  fonde. On pourra favoriser les efforts déployés à travers le monde dans ce sens,  en entreprenant de regrouper les programmes de l'Unesco autour de grandes options  reconnues prioritaires par tous, en les adaptant aux réalités et aux situations  concrètes.
27.16 Je tiens à souligner qu'à mons sens la notion de coopération doit signi-  fier, selon l'acception même de ce terme, une action de participation à une oeuvre  commune. C'est notre oeuvre de création à nous tous, à l'échelle mondiale. Presque  tous les Etats, aujourd'hui, doivent faire face à des problèmes économiques ou  financiers, et Israël ne fait sûrement pas, loin de là, exception à la règle. Nous  avons beaucoup à faire et beaucoup à apprendre. Et c'est seulement à partir d'une  solidarité véritable et effective entre Etats qu'une réelle coopération pourra  s'accomplir.
27.17 En faisant le point des différents impératifs de l'éducation aujourd'hui,  permettez-moi de rappeler que les prescriptions de la tradition juive ont évité à  mon peuple - dans sa majorité - l'analphabétisme depuis le Pentateuque, c'est-à-  dire depuis le temps de Moïse et de Josué. Le peuple juif, désigné aussi sous le  nom de peuple du Livre, est certainement sensible aux cultures des autres, et au  premier chef à la culture arabe, qui a sa place chez mous.
27.18 J'en arrive ainsi à l'une des deux accusations devenues désormais  rituelles lors des sessions de la Conférence générale. I1 s'agit des territoires  qui ont été occupés jusqu'en 1967. Tout homme de bonne volonté peut constater que  le nombre des écoles a augmenté depuis cette date de 70 %. Le programme d'ensei-  gnement de ces écoles est identique, en Judée et Samarie, au programme jordanien,  et dans la bande de Gaza à celui de 1'Egypte. Les épreuves du baccalauréat sont  examinées et notées par les autorités d'éducation de ces deux pays. Le pourcen-  tage d'élèves qui chaque année obtiennent le baccalauréat se compare favorablement  à ceux des deux pays que je viens de citer.
27.19 I1 n'y avait aucun établissement d'enseignement supérieur dans ces terri-  toires avant 1967, tandis qu'aujourd'hui il y en a cinq. Les étudiants peuvent  choisir entre ces universités, ou bien ils peuvent librement aller faire leurs  études dans les universités des pays arabes voisins et revenir passer leurs  vacances dans leur famille. D'ailleurs ces étudiants jouissent de la liberté de  mouvement tout comme les autres habitants de ces territoires. C'est le résultat  de la politique des ponts ouverts sur le Jourdain, inaugurée et mise en oeuvre en
1967 par M. Moshé Dayan, alors ministre de la défense. La conséquence de cette  liberté de mouvement est que les visiteurs des pays arabes en Israël pendant ces  années se comptent par centaines de milliers.
27.20 En ce qui concerne les médias, l'écoute des radios des pays voisins est  absolument libre. I1 en est de même pour la télévision qui capte en Israel les  émissions de tous les pays arabes voisins. La radio israélienne elle-même émet
16 heures par jour en langue arabe et notre télévision diffuse six heures de pro-  grammes arabes par jour. Quatre journaux en langue arabe sont publiés à Jérusalem  et critiquent tout ce qu'ils veulent : il suffit d'interroger les habitants arabes  eux-mêmes pour recueillir l'opinion que nulle presse des pays arabes n'est plus  libre que celle-ci.
27.21 La deuxième accusation rituelle concerne les fouilles archéologiques à  Jérusalem.
27.22 Mesdames et Messieurs, quelle richesse culturelle, quelle splendeur d'un  rayonnement universel offrent ces fouilles qui apportent des témoignages archéolo-  giques de tout premier ordre concernant des millénaires de l'histoire de l'huma-  nité. A part le passé juif, des édifices datant des périodes romaine, byzantine,  des Croisés, des Omeyyades et des Turcs ont été mis à jour. Les travaux ont été  conduits sur la base d'une méthode exemplaire et avec un grand souci du détail,  selon le représentant du Directeur général ; d'ailleurs, les experts envoyés par  le Directeur général ont toujours bénéficié de toutes les facilités dans l'accom-  plissement de leurs multiples missions. De plus, le Commissaire général prévu par  la Convention de La Haye peut exercer ses attributions en toute liberté.
27.23 Des fouilles archéologiques ont eu lieu sous tous les régimes qui ont  gouverné Jérusalem, sans que personne y trouve 5 redire, et ia levée des boucliers  contre Israël n'a de ce fait rien à voir avec les fouilles.
27.24 En dépit de tout cela, Israël fait l'objet de condamnations répétées 21  chaque session de la Conférence générale. Monsieur le Président, ces condamnations  sont motivées par des considérations étrangères, contraires 2I l'esprit de l'Unesco.  Nous aurions dû faire l'objet non pas de condamnations mais de louanges pour avoir  mis au jour l'héritage de trois grandes religions. Et si nous ne l'avions pas fait,  c'est alors que nous aurions dû être condamnés.
27.25 Monsieur le Président, pour des raisons évidentes, je m'abstiendrai de  mentionner maintenant devant la Conférence générale ce qui a été fait 5 Jérusalem  avant 1967. Je m'en abstiens dans l'esprit dont je vous ai fait part au début de  mon intervention, et je suis sûr que vous connaissez les faits qui ont d'ailleurs  été amplement évoqués aux précédentes sessions de la Conférence générale.
27.26 N'importe quel observateur peut constater que le seul pays visé par les  deux seuls points de notre ordre du jour qui se réfèrent à des situations parti-  culières est précisément Israël. Cette exclusivité anormale reflète bien les  moyens parlementaires mis en oeuvre par les adversaires de mon pays. I1 est clair  que ce n'est pas pour des raisons scientifiques ou culturelles que l'Unesco a été  entraînée dans ces polémiques, et il est évident qu'une certaine lassitude s'empare  de tous, à force d'entendre d'inutiles et continuelles réitérations d'allégations  futiles.
27.27 Les questions de l'éducation dans les territoires et des fouilles à Jéru-  salem seront amplement débattues en Commission. C'est 12 que ma délégation réta-  blira méticuleusement la vérité objective.
27.28 Mesdames et Messieurs, je suis certes 2 la tête d'une délégation qui  représente un Etat souverain. Mais j'appartiens à une génération qui a vécu des  événements exceptionnels, et je ne puis oublier que j'appartiens 2 un peuple qui  a une douloureuse histoire. Je m'identifie aux propos d'Edmond Fleg, un grand  homme de lettres juif qui a vécu en France, que je voudrais citer : "Je suis juif,  parce qu'en tous temps où crie une désespérance, le juif espère." I1 est impos-  sible de passer sous silence les attaques antisémites qui se produisent en Europe  de l'Est comme à l'Ouest. On entend beaucoup parler 2 l'Unesco du fléau du racisme,  mais je n'ai pas pu discerner une condamnation nette et claire de l'antisémitisme.  I1 est particulièrement pénible pour tous ceux 2 qui la justice sociale est chère  de voir que sur le territoire d'une des plus grandes puissances mondiales, qui se  dit socialiste, les juifs ne peuvent pratiquer leur culture, leur religion, leur  histoire nationale et leur langue. L'Unesco est bien placée pour exiger la liberté  d'expression de la culture juive en Europe de l'Est, y compris la liberté des  contacts de cette communauté avec les autres communautés juives.
27.29 Je voudrais conclure sur les mots du même grand homme de lettres juif  que je viens de citer et qui, parlant du sort du peuple juif, écrivait : "I1 faut  aller pourtant, fût-ce en la solitude, et, quand on est tombé, se remettre debout,  il faut ne se lasser d'aucune lassitude : quel qqe soit le chemin, la lumière est  au bout .'I Merci beaucoup.
28.1 The PRESIDENT:  the general policy debate this afternoon.
28.2 Before closing the meeting, I shall invite the delegates of the United  States of America, the Islamic Republic of Iran gnd the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics to make short statements, not longer than five minutes, in exercise of  their right of reply.
28.3 I first give the floor to the delegate Of the United States of America to  reply to the interventions by the delegations of Bulgaria, the Socialist People's  Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and Czechoslovakia.
29.1 Mr HENNELLY (United States of America):  does not believe that this forum should be used for discussions of extraneous poli-  tical issues. Nevertheless, in view of the charges made today against1 my country  by the delegate of Bulgaria, I shall briefly exercise my right to reply.
23.2 Regarding Grenada, I can only reiterate what we and the Caribbean States  involved have stated earlier in this Conference. First, that the Governor-General  of Grenada requested help from treaty partners of the Organization of Eastern  Caribbean States to restore order following a breakdown in the government of Grenada.  Second, that the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States agreed to provide such  assistance in accordance with provisions of the Treaty. Third, that the Organiza-  tion sought additional help from the Governments of Barbados, Jamaica and the United  States. The United States therefore, far from acting alone, acted in response to  and in co-operation with those Car,ibbean countries, asked by the OECS, and therefore,  most legitimately concerned by th4 bloody events in Grenada. And we should bear in  mind that these events would doubtless have been far bloodier had they been allowed  to continue their course.  I thank the head of the delegation of Israel, the last speaker listed for  Mr President, as I stated in my interveption on Saturday, the United States
29.3 Regarding the planned deployment of intermediate-range missiles in several  European countries parties to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, it should be  clear to all that such plans are in response to a massive build-up of similar  missiles in recent years on the part of others. It was this build-up that destabil-  ized the nuclear balance. We have sought since 1979 to right this imbalance through  negotiations. We have negotiated seriously, in good faith. If these negotiations  do not succeed, if deploying these missiles is the only way to right the balance,  it will not be for lack of effort on our part. We have not threatened to break off  negotiations. On the contrary, we earnestly hope for their success.
29.4 In reply to the Libyan delegate, I can only say that my previous remarks  on Grenada apply to his charges. As to his charge that-the United States is some-  how applying pressures and threats against his country and in his region, I can only  say that the sad recent history of Libyan adventurism in Africa and throughout the  world clearly shows whose activities support and nurture terrorism. As to the  question of Libyan students in the United States, I can tell this body that many,  many fine young people from Libya are studying in the United States. A few students  have been requested to alter their major focus of study in accord with United States  immigration rules and regulations. The United States has explained this policy at  length in exchanges with Unesco officials. Since we are limited in the time of our  replies, I will ask the permanent delegation of the United States to Unesco to make  that information available to this Conference.
29.5 In response to the delegate of Czechoslovakia, I particularly reject the 11  remarks of the spokesman for a government which has twice in recent history brutally  crushed expression of desire for change by its own people. The United States has  nothing to learn about peace and security from such a regime. Thank you Mr President.
30. The PRESIDENT:  Iraq.
31 .I Mrs HAKAMI (Islamic Republic of Iran) :  Mr President, in this Conference several representatives of various countries have  already mentioned the issue of world peace and the war between Iran and the Iraqi  regime and have asked Unesco to take steps to ensure world peace. We, like any  other free nation which desires the well-being of mankind and is engaged in national  construction, also seek peace; but we do not separate peace from justice: both are  basic principles of Unesco. In particular, we believe that, to make up for the  destruction caused by the rule of the despotic government of the past in our country  and the conspiracies of the superpowers, we need peace and security more than any  other nation. But bitter experiences over the past thirty or so years with Israel  in the Middle EasL have taught us that any kind of cease-fire and discussions which  take place before punishing the aggressor have only one benefit: they permit the  aggressortoremain in the occupied land and to provide the groundwork for further  aggression. The common pattern of aggression, cease-fire, then discussion followed  by aggression, cease-fire and discussion again, is for us today a recognized Zionist  tactic, and we will never allow the Iraqi regime--grabbing at this tactic--to con-  tinue its aggression on our Islamic lands.
31 .2 Mr President, while thanking the sincere representatives here, we have to  say that we do not beleive the Iraqi regime's claim for peace, because we ask our-  selves the following question: if that regime had any conflict with us, why did it  not refer to the United Nations or the Security Council, or even Unesco, over three  years ago, before it imposed a war upon us? Rather, it attacked our country with  twelve battalions, began to attack our innocent, defenceless people living on the  borders and destroyed our cities and villages. We do not believe the Iraqi regime's  claim for peace, because we have seen and continue to see that, contrary to the  Geneva Convention, this regime bombards our residential areas, schools and hospitals  with long-range missiles, even at night when innocent people are sleeping, not to  mention the martyrs of cities like Andimeshk, Masjed Soleyman and Behbehan. Mr  President, we must mention that to date more than one thousand people have been  murdered in the city of Dezful by the missiles of the Iraqi regime. We invite all  the distinguished delegates here who have heard the Iraqi regime's claim to desire  peace to study United Nations document S/15834, dated 20 June 1983; they will realize  that the activities of the Iraqi troops in our occupied land have been unique in the  second half of the twentieth century in terms of brutality.
31.3 Distinguished delegates, today is the seventh day of the martyrdom of  seventy-four young students who were killed last week in a missile attack by Saddam's  forces against the city of Behbehan. We do not ask you to observe a minute of  silence for the innocent martyrs and for their mothers; instead, we invite you, and  all the awakened consciences of the world, to CLY out aqainst these murders for a  lifetime. The Holy Koran says, 'God does not like a person to disclose evil deeds  of another by crying out, unless it be for an oppressed person'.Peace and the mercy  of God be upon you.
32.1 The PRESIDENT:  I note that several other delegates wish to exercise the right of reply.  At this stage I should indicate that the right of reply exercised by Iran to Iraq  was in more caustic terms than the reference which Iraq made about Iran. Accordingly,  I will accord Iraq the right of reply to the reply given by Iran. I would say that  if Iraq now replies in kind, then Iran again will have a right to reply.
32.2 Czechoslovakia has indicated that it wishes to reply to the intervention  by the United States. I do not find that the remarks by the United States were  more caustic than those of Czechoslovakia. Accordingly Czechoslovakia will not have  a right of reply. The delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics will now  have the right of reply to the intervention by Israel.  The representative of Iran has the floor to reply to the intervention by  In the name of God the Merciful, the Compassionate. Thank you, Mr President.
(33.1) Mr URANOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr President, distinguished delegates, in reply to the representative of Israel,  the USSR delegation states that his allegations about the imaginary infringement of the  rights of Jews in Eastern Europe are utterly divorced from reality and are therefore of a  deliberately slanderous nature.
433-2) These allegations were evidently needed by the delegation of Israel to divert  attention from the indisputable fact that Israel was and remains an aggressor and that  it is conducting a policy of brute force, genocide and cynical violation of the rights  of the Palestinian and Lebanese peoples and of the entire Arab nation. Israeli aggression  continues to bring in its wake the humiliation; tears and death of thousands and thousands  of children, women and old people. These facts are known to the whole world. That  aggression threatens the very existence of the peaceful Arab population in the occupied  lands, not to mention the.massive and flagrant violation there of elementary human rights  and total disregard for the demands of modern human civilization.
(33.3) The policy of Israel is a shameful blot on the life of our planet. Hence the  international community resolutely and in the most authoritative forums condemns the  Zionist, aggressive and expansionist policy of Israel. And no amount of dodging will help  Israel evade that condemnation, even at this Conference. Thank you for your attention.
34. The PRESIDENT:  reply to the intervention by Israel.  The Observer for the Palestine Liberation Organization has the floor to
(35) Mr NASI3 (Palestine Liberation Organization) (Translation from the Arabic):  I would like to make a brief comment on the Israeli delegate’s remarks. First:  with regard to Israeli violations of human rights and to the freedom of educational and  cultural institutions, we content ourselves with the contents of Item 18. We would like  to refer to the report of the international committee which was established by Unesco  and sent to the occupied territories to clarify all the facts. Second: The Israeli  delegate does not recognize or acknowledge the fact that there is an occupation. He  talks about the excavations in Jerusalem as if the matter were an academic one. What is  important is that Jerusalem is an occupied city that has been annexed by force, an action  which is neither accepted nor condoned.either in the Arab world or internationally. Con-  sequently, the monuments that the Israeli delegate mentions belong to the legitimate  owners of Jerusalem and Israel has no right to violate them. Thank you.
36. The PRESIDENT:  by Cyprus.
37.1 Mr INONU (Turkey)  Mr President, during this afternoon’s meeting, one of the distinguished  speakers in his intervention made two allegations in connection with the protec-  tion of cultural property and the problem of missing persons in Cyrpus. We do not  wish to introduce undue political controversy into our debate, but I should like to  state for the record that the Turkish delegation does not accept his allegations.  The representative of Turkey has the right of reply to the intervention
31.2 The authorities of the Turkish Federated States of Cyprus have taken and 11  continue to take every possible measure to safeguard the historical monuments, sites  and remains situated in North Cyprus. The utmost sensitivity and determined efforts  of the state in this respect have met with the appreciation of all concerned, as  evidenced by the fact that foreign experts, including a Unesco expert who has visited  the north, have expressed full satisfaction with the efforts of the authorities in  this regard. Furthermore, Mr President, the Turkish Federated State of Cyprus wel-  comes the material and expert advice to be given by Unesco for the preservation of  cultural property.
31.3 As regards the problem of missing persons, Mr President, we wish to point  out that there is an already established mechanism for dealing with this humanita-  rian issue. We believe that this mechanism should be employed in good faith for  the solution of this problem. Thank you, Mr President.
(39.1) Mr HAIDAR (Iraq) (Translation from the Arabic):  an exercise of the right of reply because our address this morning did not contain any-  thing to which a reply was called for. However, as is their wont, the delegates of the  Persian regime have taken advantage of the forum afforded by Unesco to indulge in bias,  distortion and provocation in a manner devoid of all objectivity and utterly at variance  with the truth.  Thank you Mr President: We do not consider the Persian delegate's remarks to be
(39.2) We too want peace and justice. That is why we have called for a peace that takes  both parties' rights and interests unto account through direct negotiations or through  international and regional organizations and institutions such as the Movement of Non-  aligned Countries, the Islamic Conference and the United Nations. It is the Persian  regime, however, that has refused and continuesto refuse all international and regional  efforts and all meditiation, for in the first place, it considers this war a godsend  which has diverted the Iranian people's attention from its tragedies, and in the second  place it seeks to realize the Persian Empire's expansionist dreams with regard to the  lands of Iraq and the Gulf.
(39.3) They talk about punishing the aggressor. Who is to decide who the aggressor is?  We have asked for the establishment of a neutral international committee, under UN super-  vision, to determine the reasons behind the outbreak and persistence of this war. If the  Persian regime is convinced of Iraq's responsibilitv. why then does it refuse the forma:  tion of international committees, whether within the framework of the UN, the Islamic  Conference or the Non-aligned Conference? Because it knows full well that it is respons-  ible for initiating this war and that it stands to gain from its continuation.
(39.4) It is ludricrous that they should speak of Israel and negotiations in the Israeli  fashLon when the Persian regime receives arms and amunition from Israel to fight Iraq  and the Arabs. Ever since the crash of the Argentine plane on Soviet territory, the whole  world has known that the Khomeini regime, to this day, accepts arms and ammunition from  Israel, as is obvious from all documents and reports, and as was mentioned in the state-  ments made by Mr Sharon two weeks ago here in Paris. Such hyprocisy and deception cannot  fool anyone.
(39.5) They speak of missiles and shelling of border towns. First of all, Mr President,  a month ago President Saddam Hussein presented a proposal for an agreement to p t  a stop  to all shelling of peaceful villages on the borders. Iran, however, rejected this pro-  posal. Then dozens of Iraqi villages and towns were shelled by Persian missiles.  Schools were bombed in the town of Mandali during school hours. We have dozens of lists  with the names of Iraqi border villages and towns shelled by Persian missiles, aswellas  the names of the civilian victims, most of whom have been elderly people, women and  children.
(39.6) Finally, Mr President, we would like to state that we are for peace. Not out of  a position of weakness, for the Persian regime knows the lessons we have taught it on  Iraqi soil, and Iraqis will continue to defend every inch of their territory, turning  Iraq into a burial ground for covetous invaders. Nevertheless, we are advocates of  peace and respect the UN principles, and reiterate the need to expedite international  efforts aimed at compelling the Persian aggressor to curb its hostility. Thank you.
40. The PRESIDENT :  made to Iran's first reply.  I now give the floor to Iran to make a last reply to the reply which Iraq
41.1 M. EMAMI (République islamique d'Iran) :  Président, les propos du délégué de l'Irak ne sont qu'une manoeuvre de propagande  visant à dissimuler les crimes commis par son gouvernement depuis trois ans sur  le territoire de l'Iran. L'Irak désire en quelque sorte, par des moyens hypocrites,  faire entériner par la communauté internationale les bombardements auxquels ont  été soumis des écoles, des hôpitaux et des cités sans défense. Est-ce par la voie  de la force que l'on peut résoudre les différends entre les deux Etats ? Avant  d'attaquer l'Iran, l'Irak a-t-il pris en considération les voies de règlement  pacifique prévues dans la Charte des Nations Unies et dans les accords bilatéraux ?  N'aurait-il pas mieux fait de demander 2 l'Algérie d'intervenir en vue de dissiper  les malentendus frontaliers, objet de sa réclamation ? Ne pourrait-il exposer ses  prétentions soit devant les Nations Unies, soit devant le Mouvement des non-alignés,  devant la Conférence islamique ou encore devant l'Unesco ?
41.2 Tout ceci prouve que la question frontalière n'a été qu'un prétexte mas-  quant les objectifs expansionnistes et opportunistes poursuivis par l'Irak qui,  sous l'inspiration de l'impérialisme et du sionisme, cherche à neutraliser les  efforts de la République islamique d'Iran dont le seul objectif est de défendre  le droit des déshérités et d'éliminer la tyrannie. Messieurs les délégués, une  paix totale régnait sur notre territoire. Nous connaissons bien les horreurs de  la guerre et le prix de la paix, mais une paix conditionnée par un cessez-le-feu  humiliant - alors que l'ennemi n'avait pas 5 commettre ses crimes sur notre  territoire - est bien différente de la paix réelle.
41.3 Monsieur le Président, l'Irak prétend que si la guerre continue entre  les deux pays, la paix et la sécurité internationales seront menacées. C'est vrai,  mais une telle menace ne se produit que si l'agresseur ne subit pas le châtiment  qu'il mérite. Si le monde s'inquiète de l'expansion de la guerre, il faut qu'il  punisse l'agresseur afin que d'autres ne puissent se permettre de menacer la paix  par des actes agressifs.  Merci, Monsieur le Président, de m'avoir accordé la parole. Monsieur le
41.4 La délégation de la République islamique d'Iran s'adresse aux consciences  des distingués délégués afin qu'ils portent un jugement sur la guerre imposée en  violation de toutes les normes internationales : le massacre des enfants, des  femmes et des vieillards, la destruction de nos monuments historiques et culturels,  nos lieux de prière du vendredi, nos écoles et nos hôpitaux servant de cibles aux  missiles des prétendus "partisans de la paix", tels sont les effets de l'une des  pires barbaries de notre siècle.
41.5 Monsieur le Président, à notre avis, les déclarations mensongères de  pacifisme faites par l'Irak n'ont d'autre but que de lui faire gagner le temps  nécessaire pour rassembler ses troupes en débandade et reprendre ensuite les  attaques contre notre patrie.
41.6 Monsieur le Président, le régime baasiste irakien repose sur l'agression ;  on ne peut jamais lui faire confiance. I1 serait donc souhaitable que cette haute  assemblée n'autorise pas un régime agresseur à se servir de cette tribune pour y  fairedes déclarations injustes et tendancieuses. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
42. The PRESIDENT :  subject raised by the delegate of which country the delegate of Israel wishes to  reply.
43. M. SHAMIR (Israël) :  de l'union soviétique.
44. The PRESIDENT:  which concerned a matter raised by Israel?
45. M. SHAMIR (Israël) :  de "génocide" contre laquelle je proteste.
46. The PRESIDENT :  Israel-has asked for a right of reply. I wish to know precisely to what  Je souhaiterais commenter certaines expressions employées par le délégué  So you wish to reply to the reply by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,  Monsieur le Président, avec votre permission, je me réfère 2 cette notion  Cyprus has asked for the right of reply. I give the floor to Cyprus.
47. Mr CATSELLIS (Republic of Cyprus)  gation to a so-called 'Turkish Federated State of Cyprus', The Government of the  Republic of Cyprus is the only legal government in Cyprus, and is recognized as  such by the United Nations and all Member States of all international organizations.  Thank you, Mr President.  Mr President, we regret that a reference has been made by the Turkish dele-  There being no further speakers, the meeting is now adjourned.