First plenary meeting
25 October 1983 at 10.45 a.m.  President: Mr MARGAN (Yugoslavia)  Première séance plénière
321    OPENING OF THE SESSION BY THE HEAD OF THE DELEGATION OF YUGOSLAVIA,  TEMPORARY PRESIDENT  OWERTURE DE LA SESSION PAR LE CHEF DE LA DELEGATION DE LA YOUGOSLAVIE,  PRESIDENT PROVISOIRE  APERTURA DE LA REUNION POR EL JEFE DE LA DELEGACION DE YUGOSLAVIA,  PRESIDENTE PROVISIONAL  OTKPHTHE CECCHH FJIABOE AEJIErAUBM DPOCJIABMM, BPEMEHHHM iIPEZCEAATEJIEM  +ILq'> d3&, 1 GWI &>I 'U %,&I
1.1 Mr Ivo MARGAN (Yugoslavia), Temporary President:  Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen,  in my capacity as head of the delegation of Yugoslavia and by virtue of Rule 37 of  the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, I havethehonour andtheprivilege  of presiding at the opening of the present twenty-second session. In my capacity  as Temporary President, I now declare open this twenty-second sessionoftheGenera1  Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Oranization.
1.2 It is my very special privilege to welcome here today Mr François Mitterrand,  President of the French Republic. Mr President, your presence here is a great  honour for Unesco and doubly so for our General Conference: it adds aspecialdimen-  sion and significance to this opening ceremony. In accepting our invitation to  attend this opening session, you have once again underlined the profound commitment  of France, our host country, to the cause of international co-operation. Your  participation in our deliberations testifies to the importance which you personally  attach to the part your Government and people have to play in building that intel-  lectual and moral solidarity of mankind upon which the defences of peace must be  constructed. It is therefore with great appreciation and interest that we look  forward to your message.
1.3 May I also extend a most cordial welcome to all those attending this session:  heads of delegations, delegates, representatives, observers from non-Member States,  liberation movements and international governmental and non-governmental organiza-  tions, journalists and other representatives of the mass media.
1.4 Ladies and gentlemen, before turning to the main tasks with which we will  have to deal at this session, i wish to pay a tribute to the memory of Sir Ronald  Adam of the United Kingdom, a member of the Executive Board from 1950 to 1954 and  Chairman of the Board from 1952 to 1954, deceased since the fourth extraordinary  session of the General Conference. Let us also remember at this moment the many  others who have contributed in some way to furthering the ideals of Unesco, and  particularly those who have faced danger in the call of duty and given up their  lives in the defence of peace.
1.5 I now invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to observe one minute's silence in  their memory.  Mr President of the French Republic, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,  (The Conference observed one minute's silence)
1.6 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tasks ahead of us are considerable:  a great deal of work has to be done in the coming days. So I shall confine myself  here to some reflections about the achievements of the last three years and the  challenges still facing us in the context of the world situation. These tasks will  be the immediate responsibility of my successor in the presidential chair, and the  more extended concern of Member States, the Executive Board, the Director-General  and the Secretariat in the years to come.
1.7 At once a witness to and a participant in the work of Unesco since 1980, I  can in all confidence reiterate my optimism with respect to the achievements of  our Organization. That optimism, however, is made all the more precious, and - I  would say - even indispensable when we take a close look at the world of today. I  have had occasion both at the foiirth extraordinary session of the General Confer-  ence and at several sessions of the Executive Board to point out the state of  permanent confrontation which makes our world a world of crisis, very far removed  from that 'peace' (as Unesco's Constitution describes it) 'which could secure the  unanimous, lasting and sincere support of the peoples of the world' and which it  is our duty to promote for our generation and that of our children, indeed for  many generations to come. But I must say itagainon this occasion. It is the time  and the place to do so, for if Unesco does not or cannot devote itself to the great  task of building peace and brotherhood in the minds of men and women, in any number  of small but significant ways, then the lights of hope will be put out forever.
1.8 No 'great and terrible war' is being waged at present, but there is an end-  less succession of simmering conflicts, of focal points of crisis, of lasting  confrontations in many domains, which are not only a negation of the international  community's lofty words about peace but also undermine the security of all our  peoples, their mental well-being and their material prosperity.
1.9 Interdependence in the contemporary world is a factor in relations between  countries and also has a bearing on the forces that make for harmony - or the  negation of harmony - in international life. The political, socio-cultural and  economic realms are therefore very closely interlinked, bringing the effects of  the complex contradictions in international relations to all spheres of human en-  deavour. In this way the current general and long-term economic and financial  crisis has become a major cause of instability and a threat to world peace. Trade  flows between the developed and developing countries as well as between the East  and West are dwindling as a result. Economic sanctions have become the means of  political pressure and attempts are made to gain unilateral advantages through  protectionism and other protective measures. Economic instability has a feedback  effect on the political situation and the one aggravates the other.
1.10 The developing countries are the most seriously affected. The fall in  the prices of raw materials along with the constant rise in the prices of  industrial products and technology has halved the national income of the  majority of these countries. In the last fewyears alone, the indebtedness  of the developing countries has risentotheterrifyingtotalof 640 billiondollars.  This indebtedness is, above all, the consequence of unequitablepositions ininter-  national economic relations, to be seen from the fact that the flow of capital out  of the developing countries through price disproportions, high interest rates and  the profits of transnational companies is much higher than the flow of capital  into them. The international financing of development itself is becoming more  restrictive all the time. Many developing economies simply cannot sustain the  burden of debt repayments. All this points to the necessity of substantial trans-  formations in the international economic and financial system aimed at reducing  the indebtedness of the developing countries and at the same time opening up new  prospects for their speedier development and more equitable position in inter-  national economic relations.
1.11 There has been evidence of late of an increased readiness on the part of the  most powerful industrialized countries to seek specific solutions to ease the  financial positions of the most indebted developing countries. This shows that  they too have become more aware of the interdependence of world development. How-  ever, there is still no readiness for a joint quest for solutions through negotia-  tions with the developing countries as a prelude to deeper changes in international  economic relations.
1.12 Against this background of increasing penury the arms race is not only  accelerating but has acquired new and even more dangerous proportions. In addition  to the role of military power which is increasingly expressed in international  relations, the arms race is a cause of further aggravation. Simultaneously, it  deprives mankind of enormous material resources which could be used much more  appropriately for economic development, not just for combating hunger and poverty  but also to meet the less material but equally indispensable human needs which  Unesco aspires to fulfil: I refer to the right to education, to scientific pro-  gress, to culture and to the fruits of communication. I am deeply convinced that  with such humanistic goals, we here in this Organization are strongly committed to  mobilizing all our strength, the manifold resources of our moral convictions -  indeed of our imagination - to combating all these negative forces from within,  from the commanding heights of the spirit, with the armour of solidarity and  goodwill.
1.13 You, yourself have singularly fortified our position, Mr President, by the  bold proposals you made on 28 September last to the thirty-eighth session of the  United Nations General. Assembly. You took up the themes of disarmament and devel-  opment together, pointing out that the technical progress stimulated by the  present crisis was extremely ambivalent because this very technical progress - and  I quote - 'is a source of growth but also a determining factor in the arms race'.  'Must we limit ourselves to this observation?' you asked, 'must we accept that the  principal efforts of the largest countries be devoted to military technology?  Must we accept the idea that the over-armament of the planet takes priority over  its development?' The global political solutions for our predicament which you  then proposed seek to break the paradoxical chains of cause and effect between  military insecurity and economic insecurity and obtain, through a basic re-  examination of military spending itself, new ways to convert the energy of destruc-  tion into the energy of development and growth. Word of your initiative has been  carried to the far corners of the globe, catching the imagination of men and women  everywhere. It is an example for other world leaders and, in the name of Unesco,  I can only hope that it will be followed. Yes, Mr President, we at Unesco are  particularly receptive to your broad and courageous vision, for such ideas have  been the leaven of the Organization's activities ever since its creation thirty-  eight years ago.
1.14 Having been closely associated with the efforts of our Organization since  the twenty-first session of the General Conference, it is also my duty here today  to pay tribute to the way these activities have contributed to the broader purposes  of Unesco. These activities are the result of a collective effort in which the  Member States, the Executive Board, the Director-General and his colleagues have  worked tirelessly to achieve their goals.
1.15 We have together elaborated and adopted a Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989.  As I pointed out at the close of the fourth extraordinary session of the General  Conference, that session itself, with its extraordinarypressuresoftimeandwork,  was a severe test of our determination to achieve international solidarity. The  Plan it produced rises to all the major challenges of our time, within Unesco's  fields of competence. Among them are fundamental problems related to our most  cherished cultural values and beliefs, to ethical principles and political convic-  tions. Nations disagree on these matters, oftenvery deeply,anditis notsurpris-  ing that even at Unesco this should continue to be the case. However, the search  formutualunderstanding onthe part of allMember Statesand allgroups of Member States  was so strong at that extraordinary session, that the Plan we adopted represented  the fruit of an honest and balanced consensus.
1.16 In the last three years the triennial programme for 1981-1983 has also been  successfully implemented, together with the many solutions which the Executive  Board and the Director-General have been obliged to find in order to respond to a  number of difficult or challenging situations. Unesco has amply fulfilledits role  as a critic and corrective agent. Concurrently, Member States, the Executive  Board and the Director-General have joined forces in the preparation of a new and  ambitious biennial programme for 1984-1985. The programme is innovative through  the fresh and original paths mapped out in the second Medium-Term Plan, now trans-  lated into operational or intellectual reality with great skill and vision. The  programme is ambitious in its cohesion and scope, in its search for that true  interdisciplinary co-operation which is the thread running through its fourteen  major programmes. The objectives defined by those fourteen major programmes are  truly inspiring ones - this is simply because they arebasic, first tothe survival  of mankind, and then to its further enrichment and progress. It is when we run  through this programme, aware of its great purpose, that our confidence in the  relevance, nay the vital necessity of Unesco is fully renewed.
1.17 With what limited resources will the Organization meet these worldwide re-  sponsibilities, fulfillingwhat is, what can only be a catalytic or seminal role in  relation to the vast needs in the fields of education, science, culture and com-  munication. May I take this opportunity of congratulating the Director-General on  having drawn up such a comprehensive programme with a budget that has decreased  substantially. This is unprecedented in the history of the Organization. In a  time of austerity, Unesco, too, has marshalled its resources in the most economic  manner possible.
1.18 But it is not a lack of resources that can hold back a determined group of  men and women who share a common purpose and are united in their commitment to it.  The first decisive step in that united effort, as far as the 1984-1989 Medium-Term  plan is concerned, will be taken here, at this General Conference.
1.19 This is why I should like, in closing and on behalf of my successor as it  were, to make a special appeal to all of you that the same constructive spirit of  goodwill and co-operation which you were kind enough to extend to me during the  twenty-first ordinary session and the fourth extraordinary session be fully renewed  and strengthened here. The shadows of our crisis-ridden world must not loom over  our deliberations, for we speak another language and seek more humanistic goals.  We must live with the almost overwhelming conflicts of the present, not by protect-  ing ourselves from them, but byrecognizingtheirimmensedifficultyanddoing all we  can by our own example, so as not to reproduce them here.
1.20 Ladies and gentlemen, this thought also reminds me of that old story about  the idealist who said, 'what a wonderful place the world wouldbe if all thenations  would get along with each other as if they were all members of one big family'. TO  this the realist replied, 'the trouble is - they e!'.
1.21 With these thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, I have concluded and will now  give the floor to H.E. Mr Victor Massuh, Chairman of the Executive Board.
324    ADDRESS BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD/ ALLOCUTION DU PRESIDENT DU  CONSEIL EXECUTIF/ DISCURSO DEL PRESIDENTE DEL CONSEJO EJECUTIVO/,BhlCTYnJIEHME  lIPEACEAATEJISI BClIOJIHBTEJIbHOrO COBETA/ ~'\.;i.:: 1 1  LT 1: - 1 1  G~ .U / #,fifi&@t#$j
(2.1) Mr MASSUH (Argentina), Chairman of the Executive Board (Translation fromthespanish):  Mr Director-General, delegates and observers, ladies and gentlemen: On behalf of the Execu-  tive Board, I have the honour of extending a very cordial welcome to the delegations of the  Mr President of the French Republic, Mr President of the General Conference,
160 Member States taking part in the twenty-second session of the General Conference, and  to the observers from States which are not members of Unesco. It gives me particular  pleasure to welcome the seven new States which are sharing in our work for the first time,  among which are four new States from my region, that is, Latin America and the Caribbean.
(2.2) Mr President of the French Republic, I would like, on behalf of the Executive Board  of the Organization, to express our pleasure at having you among us at this opening meeting.  We are particularly honoured by your presence. It is renewed proof of the interest which  the host country has in Unesco and confirmation of the faith which the French Government  has in our action. Thank yo Mr President, for this significant support to the Organiza-  tion in these very crucial &neS.
(2.3) I would also like to say how pleased we are to welcome the representatives of the  various organizations of the United Nations system and the observers from the intergovern-  mental and international non-governmental organizations of categories A and B with which  Unesco maintains relations.
(2.4) I would now, Mr Margan, like to recall the success of the twenty-first session of  the General Conference, held in your country under your skilful guidance. The hospitality  provided by the Government of Yugoslavia to the delegations and the Secretariat was a  decisive factor in the satisfactory outcome of that Conference. The intensive work which  has been done over the past three years by the Executive Board to secure the rational and  effective implementation of the programme adopted by the General Conference in Belgrade,  can attest to the excellent work carried out there.
(2.5) Mr President, delegates, the work which lies before us at this session is of great  importance for the future of the Organization. When, as provided for in the Constitution,  the Executive Board prepared the agenda which will be submitted to you for consideration,  it was aware of the complex nature of the items which are being proposed for this General  Conference. The innovations of the second Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989, adopted by the  fourth extraordinary session of the General Conference last year, have been included in  the Draft Programme and Budget for 1984-1985. This document, which you are going to review  and discuss over the next five weeks, offers Member States new prospects for international  co-operation in an atmosphere of understanding and equity.
(2.6) The Executive Board actively participated in the preparation of the two instruments  on which Unesco's action was based - the Medium-Term Plan and the Draft Programme and  Budget for the next biennium. The Executive Board will remain in session at the disposal  of the General Conference, in order to follow the Conference's proceedings and to contribute,  where necessary to ensuring more effective progress of its work. This exercise will be the  best way in which members of the Board can prepare to shoulser their responsibilities over  the next two years.
(2.7) Mr President, delegates, Mr Director General, you have available to you the best  possible resources for carrying out the task which the international community expects of  this General Conference. I reaffirm the hope that each of you here present is the depository  of the sovereign will of your own government and of the cultural will of your respective  countries. As we are all deeply aware of the sombreness of our times, I trust that a  spirit of understanding and co-operation will prevail in this forum so that we can overcome  the divergences which could divide us.  mutually enhancing terms. I trust that moderation, respect and fraternal acceptance Of  others will be the rule of conduct in the debates which are to take place during this  Conference. Thank you very much, Mr President.  In Unesco, differences could be complementary and
3. The PRESIDENT :  views on the results achieved and on what lies ahead of us. I now call on the  Director-General.  Thank you very much, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, for your incisive  ADDRESS BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL/ ALLOCUTION DU DIRECTEUR GENERAL/  DISCURSO DEL DIRECTOR GENERAL/ BMCTYIlJIEHME I'EHEPAJlbHOïO ABPEKTOPA/  p m 1  - 4 1  'ids /g,-F-$#-ig
4.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :  la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et  Messieurs les Ministres, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, 2 l'ouverture de cette  vingt-deuxième session de la Conférence générale, je souhaite une chaleureuse bien-  venue aux représentants des Etats membres de l'Unesco. Je salue les éminentes per-  sonnalités qui sont venues, à cette occasion, témoigner de leur attachement à  l'oeuvre de l'Organisation et tout d'abord Monsieur François Mitterrand, président  de la République française.
4.2 A la suite du général de Gaulle et du président Pompidou, qui avaient succes-  sivement assisté aux cérémonies du vingtième et du vingt-cinquième anniversaire de  l'Organisation, puis du président Giscard d'Estaing, qui s'était adressé à la  vingtième session de la Conférence générale, voici que vous nous faites, Monsieur  le Président, l'honneur de prendre part à la séance d'ouverture de cette vingt-  deuxième session. Au nom des Etats ici réunis, ainsi qu'en mon nom personnel, je  tiens à souligner l'exceptionnel éclat que votre geste confère à cette cérémonie  Monsj-eur le Président de la République française, Monsieur le Président de
326    et à vous dire combien nous sommes sensibles à votre présence dans les doulou-  reuses circonstances que connaît votre pays, au lendemain d'un drame qui a coûté  la vie 2I certains de ses fils les plus dévoués. Je vous renouvelle ici, ainsi qu'au  gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, mes sentiments de profonde tristesse et  l'expression de mes condoléances les plus sincères.
4.3 Permettez-moi de saluer les représentants des organisations soeurs du sys-  tème des Nations Unies, des organisations intergouvernementales et des organisa-  tions internationales non gouvernementales. Je souhaite également exprimer ma  reconnaissance à M. Ivo Margan, président sortant de la Conférence générale, pour  l'inlassable effort qu'il a déployé, au cours de son mandat, au service de l'0rga-  nisation, ainsi qu'à M. Victor Massuh, président du Conseil exécutif, qui, fait  exceptionnel dans la vie de l'Organisation, exerce ses fonctions depuis trois ans.
4.4 Enfin, j'ai la conviction de traduire les sentiments de tous les Etats  membres en remerciant, à travers le président François Mitterrand, le peuple et  le gouvernement de la France, pays hôte de l'Unesco, pour le cadre exceptionnel  qu'ils offrent aux travaux de notre Organisation dans leur prestigieuse capitale,  pour l'intérêt qu'ils lui accorãent et pour ia comprénension qu'ils n'ont cesse  de lui témoigner depuis sa création.
4.5 Monsieur le Président de la République, Mesdames et Messieurs, trente-huit  ans se sont écoulés depuis la réunion à Londres, er: 1945, de la Conférence des  ministres alliés de l'éducation qui allait donner naissance 2 l'Unesco. Cette réu-  nion était chargée - selon les termes de M. Archibald Mc Leish, qui dirigeait la  délégation des Etats-Unis d'Amérique - de "préparer l'instrument destiné à déve-  lopper la compréhension mutuelle dans toute 1 'humanité".
4.6 Six années de guerre venaient. de prendrp fin. Six années durant lesquelles  la violence meurtrière, allumée par la haine raciale et l'esprit de domination,  avait rapidement gagné de vastes régions du monde, causant la mort et la souffrance  de centaines de millions de personnes, anéantissant brutalement ce que plusieurs  peuples avaient mis des siècles à construire, ébranlant la conscience de l'humanité  enti ère.
4.7 Les participants à la Conférence de Londres traduisaient, dès lors, une pré-  occupation partagée par l'immense majorité des femmes et des hommes de tous les  pays : celle de s'assurer que le carnage qui cessait à peine ne recommencerait  janiais plus ; celle de tout mettre en oeuvre pour empêcher que les désaccords, les  malentendus ou les méfiances réciproques ne se transforment en antagonismes, dégé-  nérant. à leur tour en conflits dévastateurs.
4.8 C'était là une tâche immense, appelant l'établissement d'une échelle de  valeurs que toutes les nations pussent assumer, la construction d'un nouveau mode  de vie internationale, dans le cadre duquel tous les peuples pussent s'épanouir et  tous les individus s'affirmer librement.
4.9 "Dans le nouvel ordre mondial vers lequel nous nous acheminons, devait  déclarer Clément Attlee, alors premier ministre du Royaume-Uni, aux délégations  présent-es à la Conférence, il est indispensable que l'on dispose d'organisatio-ns-  chargées de s'occuper chacune d'un des grands domaines de l'activité humainel..:/.  Une organisation comme celle que vous envisagez d'établir peut contribuer puisam-  ment à façonner 1 ' avenir. "
4.10 Dans le cadre du système des Nations Unies, l'Unesco fut alors chargée, selon  les termes de son Acte constitutif, "de contribuer au maintien de la paix et de la  sécurité en resserrant, par l'éducation, la science et la culture, la collaboration  entre nations, afin d'assurer le respect universel de la justice, de la loi, des  droits de l'homme et des libertés fondamentales pour tous, sans distinction de race,  de sexe, de langue ou de religion".
4.11 Ces idéaux se sont notamment concrétisés dans l'accession à la souveraineté  politique de dizaines d'anciennes colonies, l'extension de la communauté interna-  tionale à toutes les régions, la volonté de coexistence entre les principales puis-  sances du globe, un sentiment plus grand de solidarité entre les hommes de partout.
4.12 Néanmoins, de graves tendances se sont peu 21 peu affirméesensens contraire :  loin de se résorber, la tension s'est dispersée à travers le monde, allumant de  multiples foyers locaux, causant des centaines de milliers de morts, alimentant  une course aux armements qui, née dans les pays industriels, a gagné de plus en  plus de pays en développenent ; les disparités se sont accrues entre les régions  les plus riches et les régions les plus pauvres du globe ; tandis que la coopé-  ration internationale marque le pas, les efforts de progrès entrepris depuis l'in-  dépendance par des dizaines de jeunes nations se trouvent dangereusement compromis ;  enfin, les grandes puissances, de plus en plus impliquées dans les conflits régio-  naux, commencent à se retrouver en position de confrontation.
4.13 Une grande inquiétude se fait jour, à nouveau, dans le monde. La foi dans  l'avenir faiblit. Après les grands espoirs soulevés par le triomphe de la liberté  contre le fascisme, et par la fin des grands régimes coloniaux, s'insinuent le  doute, la crainte de ne plus pouvoir changer le cours tragique des choses, la ten-  tation du désespoir.
4.14 Or, le monde a aujourd'hui les moyens intellectuels, scientifiques, tech-  niques et politiques de résoudre les principaux problèmes qui se posent à lui. Les  fondements existent d'une coopération OU tous les peuples puissent trouver leur  intérêt à long terme. Seule manque la volonté réelle, sincère, tenace, de faire  enfin prévaloir la solidarité humaine sur les égoïsmes, les préjugés et les mé-  fiances ; d'élever la raisc:n internationale au-dessus des raisons particulières ;  de retrouver une .polyphonie planétaire au-delà du vacarme des voix concurrentes  et du cliquetis croissant des armes.
4.15 Vous le disiez récemment, Monsj-eur le Président de la République française,  dans un important. discours devant l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies : "Le  monde ne retrouvera son équilibre et une plus grande sécurité que sj les solida-  rités, aujourd'hui hélas exprimées en termes militaires, prennent une autre dimen-  sion. La solidarité est en effet la forme supérieure de la sécurité."
4.16 Ainsi, plus que jamais aujourd'hui, les idéaux proclamés par les fondateurs  de l'Unesco il y a trente-huit ans demeurent-ils actuels. Plus que jamais s'impose  la démarche que poursuit, inlassablement, notre Organisation : celle de frayer,  dans les domaines qui relèvent de sa compétence, les voies susceptibles de conduire  à plus de compréhension et plus de respect mutuel ent-re les peuples, plus de liberté  et plus de prctgrès pour les hommes de partout.
4.17 I1 s'agit, à cette fin, de multiplier les contacts et les échanges : de dé-  ployer une action alliant l'exigence de justice à l'esprit de tolérance ; de re-  chercher les bases d'accords qui désamorcent les tensions latentes, étendent les  zones de convergence possible et suscitent des actions communes OU l'intérêt de  chaque pays rencontre celui de l'humanité dans son ensemble.
4.18 Telle est, me semble-t-il, la seule voie qui réponde à l'immense aspiration  des peuples du monde à vivre ensemble dans la liberté, à avancer ensemble vers le  progrès, à construire ensemble un avenir de justice et de paix. Et notre Organi-  sation est l'une de celles qui sont, aujourd'hui, le mieux placées pour entendre  cette aspiration, pour la traduire en initiatives hardies, susceptibles d'inspirer  les imaginations, de soulever les enthousiasmes et de rassembler les volontés de  changement.
4.19 LéonBlum, quidirigeaitladélégatign française SlaConférencedeLondres, décla-  rait déjà à cette époque : "On ne saurait L ... /s'exagérerl'irnportance qu'un orga-  nisme de coopération intellectuelle et spirituelle devra tenir dans la création  d'un monde pacifique et dans l'organisation pacifique du monde. Mais il va de soi  qu'il ne peut être conçu que comme un des rouages de cette organisation, et son  efficacité, son autorité surtout, dépendront, en fin de compte, de l'efficacité et  de l'autorité qu'aura su s'assurer la communauté internationale elle-même."
4.20 Mesdames, Messieurs, il est permis d'espérer, il faut espérer, que cette  session de notre Conférence générale contribuera à élever l'efficacité et 1' auto-  rité de la communauté internationale. A chacun d'entre nous, qui ensemble la re-  présentons, incombe la responsabilité de veiller à ce qu'elle surmonte solidaire-  ment les tourmentes actuelles, car, si l'humanité a une histoire multiple, son  destin est désormais commun et, si elle a connu d'innombrables passés, elle ne  connaîtra qu'un avenir.
5.1 The PRESIENT:.  remarks.  Thank you, Mr Director-General, for your encouraging and thought-provoking
5.2 Before giving the-floor to the President of the French Republic, I should  like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that this meeting will continue  immediately after the departure of Mr Mitterrand. Aviewminutes will elapseduring  this process, but I would ask you to remain in your seats during the suspension of  the meeting, so that immediately upon my return to the rostrum, I may proceed with  item 2 of the provisional agenda, Establishment of the Credentials Committee.
5.3 I now invite the President of the French Republic to address the Conference.
328    ADDRESS BY HIS EXCELLENCY MR FRANCOIS MITTERRAND, PRESIDENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC  ALLOCUTION DE S. EXC. M. FRANCOIS MITTERRAND, PRESIDENT DE LA  REPUBLIQUE FRANCAISE  DISCURSO DEL EXCMO. SR. FRANCOIS MITTERAND, PRESIDENTE DE LA REPUBLICA FRANCESA  BHCTYnJIEHME Erû IIPEBOCXOnBTEJIbCTBA I?-HA OPAHCYA MWTTEPAHA  iIPE3MAEHTA OPAHuY3CKOl? PECIIYBJIMKW  '%&I '&>+I dJ ui* 1-3 +-Il 'LWI "Lo 'U  (The president of the French Republic took his place at the rostrum)
6.1 M. MITTERRAND, président de la République française :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, souvenez-vous. Quel  visage avait le monde en 1945 ? Au Nord : des ruines, une après-guerre. Au Sud :  des colonies, déjà des révoltes, un climat d'avant-guerre.
6.2 C'est alors que fut créée l'Unesco. C'est alors que Léon Blum, on vient de  le rappeler, demanda pour la France l'honneur d'accueillir la nouvelle Organisation.
6.3 Aujourd'hui, 38 ans plus tard, 160 pays sont réunis dans la même ambition.  Cent soixante pays qui ont souscrit 2 la même Charte dont les termes viennent d'être  évoqués par Monsieur le Directeur général.
6.4 L'Unesco est devenue, en dépit des tendions et des drames, ce lieu précieux,  hier encore illusoire, OU tous les hommes du monde s'arrêtent pour dialoguer et  pour agir ensemble. C'est pourquoi, au seuil de cette vingt-deuxième session de la  Conférence générale, je ressens comme un grand privilège de m'adresser à VOUS ce  matin, à vous Mesdames et Messieurs, représentants de tous les pays et de tous les  continents. Je vous souhaite la bienvenue au nom de la France et de son peuple. Je  vous exprime mes voeux pour le plein succès de vos travaux, ces travaux que vous  allez maintenant entreprendre, et je remercie, pour les paroles qu'elles ont pro-  noncées, les éminentes personnalités qui se sont exprimées avant moi.
6.5 Depuis sa création, l'Unesco a rempli sa mission dans les domaines qu'elle  avait retenus et les priorités qu'elle s'était assignées. Ses actions ont été specta-  culaires, les progrès significatifs. Sans l'Unesco, sans ses admirables campagnes  d'alphabétisation, combien de millions d'enfants auraient ét6 privés de la connais-  sarice minimale. Ne pas savoir lire, ne pas savoir écrire, c'est être condamné, par  les hommes et non par la nature, au destin des aveugles, des sourds et des muets.  Dans ces dernières années, s'il faut donner un exemple, des dizaines de millions  de personnes ont béneficié directement de ces programmes dans différents pays.  Grâce encore à l'Unesco, la coopération scientifique s'est développée à la mesure  des enjeux que vous savez considérables.
6.6 De même, c'est par l'Unesco que quelques-uns parmi les plus grands trésors  du patrimoine universel ont été sauvegardés. Je passais 2 l'instant dans les salles  attenantes 2 celle-ci, et je me posais la question : que serait-il advenu des  temples de Borobudur sans l'Unesco et sans elle qui pourrait sauver Venise ? Quant  à nous, Français, nous sommes particulièrement reconnaissants 2 votre Organisation  pour son appui dans le travail immense qui consiste à désensabler le Mont Saint-  Michel.
6.7 Ainsi, au moint même de convergence entre science et culture, l'Unesco a su  donner aux recherches sur l'environnement ses lettres de noblesse. La France appuie  comme vous cette approche qui permet de mobiliser pour le même projet l'ensemble  des ressources, humaines et naturelles, terrestres et marines, au service du déve-  loppement. Dans le cadre du Programme sur l'homme et la biosphère s'établissent les  bases scientifiques d'une véritable gestion des principaux écosystème de la terre,  notanment dans les zones tropicales ou côtières.
6.8 Oeuvre de longue haleine, qui s'inscrit dans la durée des temps géologiques,  nais oeuvre indispensable car les atteintes portées au patrimoine naturel sont,  vous le savez, irréversibles.
6.9 Au coeur de ce patrimoine se trouve l'eau, symbole et moteur de la vie, si  mal répartie à l'échelle du monde. Le lancement du Programme hydrologique interna-  tional et la création d'une Commission océanographique intergouvernementale : voici,  parmi d'autres, deux initiatives exemplaires que je tiens à saluer.
6.10 Mais ce patrimoine, l'Unesco ne se contente pas de le préserver, elle cherche  à l'enrichir chaque jour en favorisant la renaissance des identités culturelles, en  suscitant partout le dialogue entre les conceptions, les arts et même les rêves.
6.11 Parfois, j'entends des doutes, des critiques. Trop lourdes seraient les orga-  nisations internationales. Cela peut arriver. Mais puissent les sceptiques consulter  votre bilan ! En 38 ans, développer l'éducation, favoriser la coopération scienti-  fique, préserver notre patrimoine, et toujours attiser la flamme de l'échange entre  tous les pays du monde, qiii dit mieux ?
6.12 Certes, dans ce domaine rien n'est jamais acquis. I1 reste tant à faire. Mais  les résultats sont là, le rythme est soutenu.
6.13 L'action, je dois le dire, du Directeur général n'est pas étrangère à cette  réussite. Homme de culture, M. M'Bow est peut-&tre d'abord un homme des cultures.  Celles de l'Afrique bien sûr, ce continent porteur de tant de richesses et de tant  de secrets à demi dévoilés, mais aussi celles des autres parties du monde dont il  a toujours été le défenseur assidu. Cette ouverture d'esprit, à l'exemple de ce qui  vous anime vous-mêmes, Mesdames et Messieurs, cette ouverture d'esprit, liée à beau-  coup de caractère, a permis de maintenir le cap et de sauver la vaste ambition en  dépit des assauts multiples.
6.14 En 38 ans d'existence, d'années de luttes, d'acharnement, vous êtes parvenus  à faire accepter par tous ces deux idées clés : la culture, le dialogue des cultures,  bien loin de susciter des conflits, et au service de la paix ; sans progrès culturel,  il n'est pas de développement possible.
6.15 Maintenant, de telles idées paraissent évidentes. Mais que d'efforts pour  faire passer ce message, pourtant si simple apparemment, de solidarité.
6.16 Aujourd'hui, votre Organisation aborde une nouvelle étape, une étape d'autant  plus difficile qu'il va nous falloir remettre en cause les certitudes de la veille.  A peine étions-nous persuadés du pouvoir unificateur de la culture, que les forces  centrifuges sont 2 l'oeuvre. A peine étions-nous installés dans le confort, un cer-  tain confort, le dialogue dont je parlais tout à l'heure, qu'une nouvelle donne  scientifique vient tout bouleverser.
6.17 Aujourd'hui, la culture peut couper le monde en deux. La raison de cette menace  est simple : au contraire des arts et des lettres, la science introduit en force le  temps dans la culture. Un chef-d'oeuvre est intemporel, alors qu'une découverte,  toute découverte, est datée, c'est-à-dire bientôt dépassée. Et plus la science pro-  gresse et plus les conditions d'accès au savoir se font inégales. Plus la science  progresse vite et plus l'écart entre les peuples s'accroit. Laisserons-nous ce fossé  s'élargir ? Certes, il ne s'agit pas de ralentir les progrès de la science,  d'ailleurs le pourrions-nous ? Mais il faut mieux accorder le développement scienti-  fique avec la capacité de nos sociétés à former les hommes. Telle est à mon sens  I. I interrogation majeure de ces vingt prochaines années.
6.18 La menace que je viens d'évoquer est à la mesure de l'espoir suscité. La  science porte en elle les moyens de desserrer des contraintes millénaires. I1 se-  rait terrible de gâcher, par inconscience ou égoïsme, les chances de développer  enfin la totalité de la planete.
6.19  u un esco ne s'est pas laissé surprendre. Sans abandonner ses ariciennes res-  ponsabilités, elle s'est placée au coeur de la révolution créée par les nouvelles  technologies. Son nom même l'y contraignait. Mais il fallait de l'audace. Je puis  vous dire que dans tous ces champs d'action vous aurez toujours le soutien de la  France.
6.20 Pour empêcher l'écartèlement du monde, une stratégie s'impose. Le deuxième  Plan à moyen terme, adopté en novembre dernier, en dessine les grandes lignes. Et  je tiens à en remercier les initiateurs car ce plan met l'accent sur les vraies  priorités, notamment sur la nécessité pour tous de se familiariser au plus vite  avec ces technologies dont je parle et l'urgence de bâtir un nouvel ordre de com-  munication. Ces priorités vont s'imposer à toutes les nations pour des raisons  souvent identiques et, je l'espère, pour des objectifs communs, qu'il s'agit de  définir ensemble.
6.21 Face à la révolution scientifique, nos niveaux actuels de développement appa-  raîtront, plus vite qu'on ne l'imagine, transitoires et fragiles. Seule comptera  vraiment pour la vie concrète des hommes, dans chacun de nos pays, l'intelligence  de notre adaptation et puis de notre maîtrise de ce que l'on peut appeler mainte-  nant la culture informatique. Culture qui, avant la fin du siècle, va irriguer  toutes les activités, au Nord comme au Sud.
6.22 Les pays industriels réunis au sein de l'OCDE voient déjà chez eux, oui, les  pays riches, la cohorte de près de 40 millions de chômeurs. Ce chiffre noir risque  de s'accroTtre encore dans les cinq prochaines années, devant l'avancée irrésistible  d'une mécanisation, d'une robotisation, au demeurant indispensables.
6.23 J'ai souvent développé cette idée qu'on ne pouvait s'en prendre à la technique  elle-même qni peut et qui doit servir l'homme. I1 n'y a pas à se révolter contre  des avancées qui peuvent être bénéfiques, qui doivent l'être. Et les crises - ce  que l'on appelle crises - ne sont pas mauvaises en soi, elles marquent simplement  des mutations. Alors quel est le coupable ? Siirement pas la science, mais les so-  ciétés et les intérêts dominants du moment qui tardent à former les hommes et à  adapter leurs structures aux exigences nouvelles.
6.24 Plus courte sera la période séparant la découverte scientifique de son implan-  tation réelle dans la société, et plus la crise débouchera sur des données nou-  velles, sur des travaux nouveaux, sur une évolution de la conscience et du savoir.
6.25 Quant aux pays dits "en développement", parfois par dérision, tant ils souf-  frent de circuits et de données internationales qui s'imposent à eux et qui ac-  croissent souvent même la misère, ,quanta ces pays, ils mesurent aujourd'hui les  ravages sur leurs peuples des avancées technologiques incontrôlées. Avancées qui  restent trop souvent le privilège de quelques-uns, qii'il s'agisse de pays puissants  ou de castes favorisées.
6.26 Ainsi, ce que nous vivons depuis une dizaine d'années ne nous permet pas le  repos, même sj nous en avions la tentation. L'évolution actuelle disqualifie à  tout moment les instruments de production auxquels nous étions habitués depuis ...  la révolution de l'électricité. Sont mis à l'écart et retirés du circuit de la  production des dizaines de millions de femme? et d'hommes.
6.27 Voilà, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, voilà que l'Unesco revient à la  source de son inspiration d'origine : construire malgré les tempêtes, construire  le monde où l'espérance trouvera son terrain.
6.28 I1 ne faudrait pas croire que les nouvelles technologies dont je parle, et  notamment l'informatique, ne concernent que quelques secteurs, réservés à quelques  puissances. Je vous l'ai dit tout à l'heure, nous sommes tous concernés.
6.29 I1 ne faut pas croire non plus que les nouveaux langages, les nouveaux moyens  de comprendre et de transformer le monde doivent être réservés à une élite. Le ni-  veau des connaissances antérieures n'y fait rien et nos enfants comprennent déjà  mieux les moyens de communication que nous. M. le Directeur général le sait, je le  répète ici solennellement : toute diffusion de ces techniques et de ces langages  à l'échelle du monde aura le soutien le plus clair des pays comme le mien.
6.30  du désordre croissant dans tous les domaines de la communication, comme dans tous  les domaines de l'échange, matériel, intellectuel et spirituel. Je crois que le pro-  gramme international pour le développemerlt de la communication mis en oeuvre ici-  même répond à des besoins urgents.
6.31 I1 y a presque trois ans, dans cette salle, j'avais lancé l'idée de la tenue  à Paris d'Etats généraux de la culture. Lors de la Conférence mondiale de Mexico,  l'année dernière, ce projet a fait l'objet d'une recommandation adoptée à l'unani-  mité. Et depuis, en liaison avec vous-mêmes, Mesdames et Messieurs, et notamment  avec les autorités présentes à la tribune, la réflexion a progressé.
6.32 Ainsi vont les choses et c'est bien comme cela, ainsi changent les hommes  d'une conférence à l'autre. La plupart des responsables laissent leur place mais  je voudrais remercier tout particulièrement ceux qui sont ici et qui vont partir  ailleurs, pour leur dire qu'ils ont bien travaillé dans l'intérêt de l'humanité.
6.33 Nous tous, responsables - j'ajouterai mon témoignage après les autres - nous  vivons dans un monde de tensions, de silences, mélange de conservatisme et d'ini-  tiatives sans contrôle. La poussée de la crise, l'accélération du progrès, nous  offrent cette nouvelle chance. Profitons-en pour changer d'habitudes et parler en-  semble, enfin, de l'essentiel. C'est bien pourquoi vous êtes réunis.
6.34 I1 y a un mois, devant l'Assemblée générale de l'organisation des Nations  Unies, j'avais souligné la liaison, à mon sens déterminante, entre les deux notions  de développement et de désarmement. Or, le développement, ce n'est pas seulementla  croissance économique, c'est le partage des connaissances et, par là, l'accès de  tous aux idéaux de justice et de liberté. Une justice et une liberté qui n'existent  pas à l'état naturel vous le savez. On doit les édifier patiemment, par l'effort  quotidj en.  Je dois dire que la France s'inquiète aussi - puisque jem'exprimeenson nom-
6.35 Je suis convaincu que cette vingt-deuxième Conférence générale de l'Unesco  marquera des progrès importants dans cette voie et, je vous répète, Mesdames et  Messieurs, la joie que ]'ai eue, au nom de la République française, de vous  accueillir dans ces lieux.
7.1 The PRESIDENT:  Mr President, on behalf of the General Conference, I should like to express  our profound gratitude for your gesture of friendship and solidarity in coming here  today. You have shared with us the experience of a distinguished statesman who has  worked for the public cause for as long as Unesco itself has existed. The wisdom  of your remarks and the ardour with which you have upheld our international mission  will be an inspiration to us during this twenty-second session of the General  Conf.erence and beyond.
7.2 Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is now suspended for ten minutes. Please  remain in your seats while President Mitterrand is accompanied out of this room.  (The meeting was suspended at 11.55 a.m. to allow the President of the  French Republic to withdraw from the conference hall. It was resumed  at 12.05 p.m.)  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE/ CONSTITUTION DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION  DES POUVOIRS/CONSTITUCION DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION DE PODERES/C03mHHE KOMMTETA  no rIPOBEPKE IIOJIHOM09m/ JLLL=\~I, ji,>r p.9 e/&k&&ijE$gE+
8.1 The PRESIDENT:  the establishment of the Credentials Committee in conformity with paragraph 1 of  Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. This paragraph reads  as follows: 'The Credentials committee shall consist of nine members, who shall be  elected by the General Conference on the proposal of the Temporary President'. I  should thus like to propose, in accordance with an equitable distribution between  the five regional groups, that the Committee be composed of the following Member  States: Algeria, China, Colombia, Gabon, Jamaica, Sri Lanka, Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics, United States of America and Zambia.  to the proposal that the Credentials Committee be constituted with the membership  I have just proposed.  Ladies and gentlemen, before closing the opening meeting, we shall proceed to  Are there any objections
8.2 There being no objections, it is SO decided.
8.3 I recall that, in accordance with Rule 27, paragraph 2 of the Rules of  its own Chairman.  Procedure of the General Conference, the Credentials Committee shall elect
8.4 It is my earnest hope that the spirit of Unesco, the example we must set for  and guide all of us in our response to its report. Our time is precious; let us  preserve it for the really fundamental issues.  the world at large, will also inspire the Credentials Committee in its work
8.5 1 shall now close this plenary meeting so that the Credentials Committee  may hold its first meeting immediately in Room VIII. It will present its first  report as soon as it is ready to do so.
8.6 The meeting stands adjourned. We shall meet here again at 3 p.m.  The meeting rose at 12.10 p.m.  La séance est levée à 12 h.10  Se levanta -la sesión a las 12.10 horas.