Second plenary meeting
8 October 1985 at 4.10 p.m.  President: Mr TELL (Jordan)  Deuxième séance plénière
21    FIRST REPORT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  PREMIER RAPPORT DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES POUVOIRS  PRIMER INFORME DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION DE PODERES  HEPBblft HOKJXU KOMEITETA HO IIPOBEPKE IIOJIHOMOWiR  ~Loi;s9I jiJ>f& '+-U J>Si 341  &$XìiE*@R4+%--&#*  : djl \  J>l, .JI4291 jid>f u" .Z+l s+ JLb  . JL&c9l jidJ u" '2+JdJ +"LI 'kdyl &st i>3i,. + U L J I  iw &-I & as_;sf i>I  * .  ,ssy Jjfj .'GUI 'LUI .+I 5. &IcJ+$I S U T >  'Lsd 'P.JUI> c,lslJIG I +   .JLor;r9l jid>t p+ '+J&> .+pJ/sllJ ëdLII 3-1 i>t
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, I declare open the second  plenary meeting. The first subject that we shall discuss is the report of the Creden-  tials Commit-tee. Before I give the floor to Mr Luckhoo, Chairman of the Credentials  Committee, I would like to congratulate him on his election to that post. I now give  the floor to the Chairman of the Credentials Committee.
2.1 Mr. LUCKHOO (Guyana), Chairman of the Credentials Committee:  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I now have  the honour to present the report of the Credentials Committee; but before doing  so I would wish to thank you, Mr President, €or your congratulations. It has  been a very fine experience for me, and I am glad to say that at the end of the  day we were able to harmonize our decisions on the several issues.
2.2 At its first plenary meeting held on 8 October 1985, the General Con-  ference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization,  in accordance with Rules 25 and 27 of its Rules of Procedure, established for its  twenty-third Session a Credentials Committee consisting of the following Member  States: Chile, China, Guyana, Japan, Netherlands, Swaziland, Tunisia, Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics, Zaire.
2.3 The Credentials Committee held its first meeting at 1 2  noon on the same  day.
2.4 The Committee elected as its Chairman Mr E.V.Luckhoo (Guyana).
2.5 The Chairman thanked the members of the Committee for the honour done  him in electing him Chairman. In a preliminary declaration, he recalled the  importance of the Committee's work and assured members that all the viewpoints  expressed by them would be reflected in the report.
2.6 In accordance with Rules 22 and 28 of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference, the Committee then considered the credentials received by the  Director-General.
2.7 At the Chairman's request, the Legal Adviser informed the Committee in  this connection that the criteria for deciding whether credentials were in due  form are laid down in Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference  which provides that credentials of delegates and alternates shall be issued by  the head of the State, the head of the Government, the Minister of Foreign  Affairs or another Minister authorized by the Minister of Foreign Affairs to  issue credentials.
2.8 The Secretariat then read out the names of Member States which had  communicated to it credentials which are in conformity with these formal  requirements.
2.9 In answer to a question from the delegate of Tunisia, the Secretariat  informed the Committee that the credentials submitted on behalf of the Delegation  of Israel were stated to have been signed in Jerusalem. In this connection, the  delegate of Tunisia, speaking on his country's behalf as well as on behalf of the  Arab group, stated that by signing its delegation's credentials in Jerusalem,  Israel was continuing to violate a number of resolutions adopted by the United  Nations General Assembly and by the competent organs of Unesco. He further  referred to what he considered as the recent act of aggression committed against  his country and added that the credentials submitted by Israel should be con-  sidered as invalid by the General Conference. The delegate of the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics also expressed his strong regret that Israel was not  only violating United Nations and Unesco resolutions but was also flouting world  opinion. The delegate of the Netherlands stated that . .  in his view the place where
2  credentials were signed was irrelevant to the validity of the credentials con-  cerned, bearing in mind the provisions of Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure of  the General Conference. The delegate of Japan supported this position. The  delegate of Swaziland also associated himself with that view, although he  expressed his regret over the Israeli refusal to respect certain United Nations  and Unesco resolutions.
2.10 The delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics stated that his  country did not recognize the credentials of the Delegation of Chile.
2.11 He further expressed reservations regarding the credentials issued by  the Government of Grenada because in his view that government was installed while  Grenada was under foreign occupation.
2.12 The delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics also expressed  reservations with regard to the credentials submitted for the Delegation of Demo-  cratic Kampuchea because the government that issued them did not in his view  represent the people of that country. The delegate of China, however, contested  this statement, stating that Democratic Kampuchea was recognized both at Unesco  and at the United Nations.
2.13 The delegate of Chile contested the reservations made .by the delegate of  the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics regarding the credentials for the Del-  egation of Chile. He warned that if political considerations were not avoided,  several Member States could also express reservations on the credentials sub-  mitted by the delegations of other Member States.
2.14 Several delegates agreed that the twenty-third session of the General  Conference will be dealing with questions of capital importance to the future  action of the Organization. They stated that in their view these important ques-  tions could best be handled in an atmosphere devoid of unnecessary political  confrontations.
7.15 At the Chairman's request, the Secretariat read out to the Committee a  letter received by the Chairman of the Committee from the Head of the Delegation  of Democratic Kampuchea. The text of the letter, the original of which is in  French, reads as follows:  Mr Chairman,  True to the traditional policy of peace and friendship of my  country, which was, as you know, one of the founding members of the Non-  Aligned Movement, and has been a Member of the United Nations and Unesco  for over thirty years, my delegation has come to take part in the  twenty-third session of the General Conference in Sofia with the sincere  desire to co-operate fully in an open-minded spirit of understanding. My  delegation had accordingly decided, as a matter of policy, to refrain  from issuing any statement that might disrupt the proceedings of the  Conference, even though my country has, for over six years, been the  victim of a war of foreign aggression perpetrated by Viet Nam and  supported and assisted on a massive scale by a superpower.  Since the Vietnamese Government, which is responsible for that  aggression, however, has persisted this year again in raising the ques-  tion of the representativeness of my country, my delegation finds itself  compelled, to its deepest regret, to express its own serious reser-  vations about the participation of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam in  the twenty-third session of the General Conference.  If there is a country that is entitled to express reservations  about the participation of another in the General Conference, it is  surely the country suffering aggression and not the aggressor country:  Democratic Kampuchea and not Viet Nam. My delegation has all the more  right to do so in that, this year, the Vietnamese troops of aggression  are stepping up their brutal repression of any form of opposition to the  occupying power, intensifying their systematic policy of forced dis-  placement of the civilian populations, continuing the economic plunder-  ing of the occupied regions, and intensifying the forced Vietnamization  of my country by importing hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese settlers  and corrupting national cultural traditions with a view gradually to  doing away with the national identity of our people, so as ultimately to  annex Kampuchea and make it a province of a greater Viet Nam. My  delegation has all the more right to do so in that Viet Nam is doing its  utmost to escalate its war of aggression against Kampuchea, turning its  back on a political solution and continuing arrogantly to defy the  United Nations resolutions demanding the withdrawal of its troops from  Kampuchea.
23    Because of these facts, Viet Nam cannot make a sound contribution  to the work of the General Conference.  The administration installed in Phnom Penh by the occupying Viet-  namese troops is but the shadow of those troops. Brought into Kampuchea  in the military vehicles of the invading troops, it represents no one.  The Socialist Republic of Viet Nam uses it as a screen on the inter-  national scene in an attempt to deceive international opinion and gain  acceptance for the fait accompli of its aggression. And on the day that  the foreign troops withdraw from my country, that so-called 'government'  will simply disappear, just as the Vichy government and other Quisling  governments disappeared.  I take this opportunity to reiterate, on behalf of the people of  Kampuchea, the Coalition 'Government of Democratic Kampuchea and H.R.H.  Samdech Norodom Sihanouk, President of Democratic Kampuchea, my deep  gratitude to those peace-, freedom-, and justice-loving countries of the  world which have accorded their sympathy and support to the cause of my  country's.independence and particularly to the 110 Member States of the  United Nations which voted in favour of demanding the withdrawal of  foreign troops from Kampuchea and whose distinguished representatives I  greet here at this twenty-third session of the General Conference.  Mr Chairman, my delegation requests you to bring the foregoing to  the knowledge of the distinguished members of the Credentials Committee.  It also requests you to inform all the delegations to the General Con-  ference in whatever form you may deem appropriate.  Ok Sakun  Head of the Delegation  of Democratic Kampuchea
2.16 The delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics queried the  appropriateness of the letter of the Head of the Delegation of Democratic  Kampuchea being read to the Committee in the absence of a representative of the  delegation of Viet Nam.
2.17 Another letter, addressed by the Head of the Delegation of the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics to the Secretariat, was also read out to the Com-  mittee. The text of this letter, the original of which is in Russian, is as  follows :  It has become known that a permanent resident of West Berlin, Mr Simson,  is included in the Delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany for  this session. According to the Quadripartite Agreement of 3 September
1971, permanent residents of West Berlin can take part in international  exchanges alongside participants from the Federal Republic of Germany  only on condition that matters of status and security are not raised. It  follows that permanent residents of West Berlin cannot be appointed as  members of State or government delegations of the Federal Republic of  Germany.  The inclusion of Mr Simson in the Delegation of the Federal  Republic of Germany for this session is thus illegal. Consequently the  Delegation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics cannot recognize  his credentials as a member of the Delegation of the Federal Republic of  Germany and will not engage in any official contacts with him. The  Delegation of the USSR requests that this statement be included in the  record of the session.
2.18 I feel it my duty, Mr President, to bring to your attention and to the  attention of the General Conference that just before coming into this room a  letter was received from the Delegation of the German Democratic Republic to the  twenty-third session of the General Conference, dated today's date. Along the  same trend in accordance with the decision reached by the Committee that all the  cards should be placed on the table before coming to a decision, that letter  reads as follows:  Sir,  The Delegation of the German Democratic Republic learned that Pro-  fessor Otto von Simson, who is a permanent resident of Berlin (West), is  a member of the Delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany to the  twenty-third session of the General Conference of Unesco.
2  In this context, I want to reaffirm that all statements made by the  Delegation of the German Democratic Republic on this matter at previous  sessions of the General Conference retain their full validity.  The Quadripartite Agreement of 3 September 1971 reaffirmed that  Berlin (West) is no constituent part of the Federal Republic of Germany  and must not be governed by it. Consequently, the Quadripartite Agree-  ment stipulates that in observance of this provision permanent residents  of Berlin (West) may participate jointly with participants from the  Federal Republic of Germany in international exchanges, however not as  participants from the Federal Republic of Germany.  This fact and legal position must be reflected also in the official  documents of the twenty-third session of the General Conference of  Unesco.  The Delegation of the German Democratic Republic expects that  necessary provision will be made to guarantee the observance of the  Quadripartite Agreement.  Please accept, Sir, the assurances of my highest consideration.
2.19 The delegate of the Netherlands, speaking on behalf of his group in  reference to the letter which was read to you concerning the communique from the  USSR, contested the affirmation contained in this letter and once again expressed  the hope that unnecessary political issues would be avoided during the ongoing  session of the General Conference.
2.20 Recalling once more the strictly limited and technical nature of the  Committee's work as indicated in Rules 22 and 28 of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference, the Chairman proposed and it was agreed by the Committee that  the delegations of Member States appearing on the list read out by the Sec-  retariat be allowed to take part in the work of the General Conference at its  twenty-third session, it being understood that reservations expressed in con-  nection with the credentials of some delegations would be reflected in the pres-  ent report.
2.21 Subject to what has already been stated concerning the credentials of  certain Member States, and the reservations expressed thereon, the Committee  decided that the delegations of the following Member States were duly accredited  in conformity with Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference by  documents issued by the head of the State, the head of the government, the  Minister of Foreign Affairs or another minister authorized by the Minister of  Foreign Affairs to issue credentials:
2.22 Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Austria, Bahrain,  Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet  Socialist Republic, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,  Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic  People's Republic of Korea, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji,  Finland, France, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Federal Republic of  Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,  Indonesia, Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,  Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,  Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritius,  Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger,  Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,  Republic of Korea, Romania, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi  Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suda,  Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,  Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and  Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam and Yugo-  slavia. The Committee therefore recommends that the delegations of the above  States be allowed to take part in the work of the General Conference at its  twenty-third session.
2.23 The delegations of the following States have submitted credentials in  the form of telegrams, letters or other documents issued by a minister other than  a Minister of Foreign Affairs and not so authorized by the latter, by the head of  a diplomatic mission, by a permanent delegate to Unesco or by a senior official  of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These countries are: Albania, Argentina,  Australia, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada,  Central African Republic, Costa Rica, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Ethiopia,  Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mauritania, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Philippines,  Rwanda, Saint Christopher and Nevis, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Swazi-
25    land, Tonga, Uruguay, Yemen, Zaire, Zambia and Zimbabwe. The Committee proposes,  Mr President,'that these documents be accepted as the provisional credentials of  the delegations of the above Member States subject to later presentation of  credentials in due *form and that, in the meantime, these delegations be allowed  to take part in the work of the twenty-third session of the General Conference.
2.24 The Committee informs the General Conference that formal credentials  were also submitted on behalf of the observer delegations of the Holy See and of  the Netherlands Antilles and proposes that they be accepted.
2.25 After the meeting of the Committee, I received from the Head of the  Delegation of Viet Nam a letter bearing today's date, the original of which is in  French, which.reads as follows:  Mr Chairman,  On behalf of the Delegation of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam,  I would like to express my reservations as regards the presence of the  so-called Delegation of Democratic Kampuchea at this twenty-third  session of'the General Conference of Unesco.  Please accept, Sir, the assurances of my highest consideration,  Cu Huy Can  Head of the Delegation of the Socialist  Republic of Viet Nam.
2.26 To conclude, Mr President, I would like to recall that the Committee  noted that a few Member States had not submitted credentials for their del-  egations. It decided to authorize its Chairman to report directly to the General  Conference on any credentials which might be submitted before it met again on the  understanding that the Chairman would convene the Committee w%en it was con-  sidered necessary so to do. Just before coming into plenary, Mr President, four  accreditations or credentials were received from Yemen, Mexico, Ethiopia and  Madagascar, which were all found to be in order. On the authorization given me by  the Committee I would wish to recommend that the credentials of these four  countries be duly accepted, along with the other credentials in due form.
2.27 That concludes what I have to report; I regret the delay, but believe  me, Mr President, we worked unceasingly with the good help of the Secretariat  between the conclusion of our meeting and the presentation of this report. Thank  you.
(3) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Ladies and gentlemen, on your behalf and on my own behalf I would like to  thank Mr Luckhoo for his report and the good work of the Committee. I see that some  delegates would like to comment on the Committee's report. I now give the floor to the  delegate of the United Kingdom.
4.1 Mr PETTITT (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland):  Mr President, my delegation congratulates Mr Luckhoo on his election a5  Chairman of the Credentials Committee, and thanks him for the Committee's report.  In welcoming and endorsing this report, I have, however, an observation to make  on the references in the report to a resident of the Western sectors of Berlin.
4.2 Mr President, as noted in the Quadripartite Agreement, the three Powers  continue to maintain their rights and responsibilities relating to the represen-  tation abroad of interests of the Western sectors of Berlin, and subject to their  rights and responsibilities the three Powers long ago authorized the Federal  Republic of Germany to represent the interests of the Western sectors of Berlin  in international organizations and conferences. With respect to the represen-  tation by the Federal Republic of Germany of the interests of the Western sectors  of Berlin at the present session of the General Conference, the three Powers in  the exercise of their supreme authority over the Western sectors of Berlin are  satisfied that matters of security and status are not thereby affected. The  representation by the Federal Republic of Germany of the interests of the Western  sectors of Berlin at the present session is thus in complete conformity with the  Quadripartite Agreement. There is nothing in the Quadripartite Agreement which
2  supports the contention that residents of the Western sectors of Berlin may not  be included in the delegations of the Federal Republic of Germany to inter-  national conferences. In fact, Annex 4 of the Quadripartite Agreement stipulates  that provided matters of security and status are not affected, the Federal  Republic of Germany may represent the interests of the Western sectors of Berlin  in international organizations and at international conferences, and that perma-  nent residents of the Western sectors of Berlin may participate jointly with  participants from the Federal Republic of Germany in international exchanges.  Furthermore, as a matter of principle, it is for the Federal Republic of Germany  alone to decide on the composition of its de-legation.
4.3 Mr President, regarding other communications on this subject, I would  like to state that States which are not Parties to the Quadripartite Agreement  are not competent to comment authoritatively on its provisions. Thank you,  Mr President.
(5) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany.  I thank the delegate of the United Kingdom and I now give the floor to the
6. Mrs MAYER-SCHALBURG (Federal Republic of Germany):  Mr President, the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany shares  the position set out in the declaration by the delegate of the United Kingdom on  behalf of the three Powers. The Government of the. Federal Republic of Germany  regrets the attempt made by the delegations of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics and of the German Democratic Republic to obstruct the nomination of  Professor von Simson as a member of the Delegation of the Federal Republic of  Germany at this Conference. As a matter of principle, it is for each Member State  alone to decide which institutions or persons it wishes to be represented by in  the work of this Organization. The Federal Government therefore regrets that co-  operation within the framework of this Conference is hampered by politically  motivated statements such as those made in the letters of the delegations of the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the German Democratic Republic. Thank  you, Mr President.
(7) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  floor to the representative of Viet Nam.  I thank the delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany, and I now give the
8. M. CÚ HUY CAN (Viet Nam) :  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et chers collègues, la position de la  République socialiste du Viet Nam a toujours été la non-reconnaissance du régime  de génocide du soi-disant Kampuchea démocratique. Pour ne pas faire perdre de  temps à notre conférence qui a tant d'importantes questions à débattre et pour  faire preuve de notre bonne volonté, ainsi qu'en témoignait d'ailleurs le ton  très modéré de notre lettre qui a été lue par le Président du Comité de véri-  fication des pouvoirs, ma réponse sera très brève. Premièrement, des calomnies  répétées cent fois ne sont que des calomnies ignominieuses, ce sont des calomnies  cent fois grossies et cent fois grossières. Deuxièmement, les représentants d'un  régime qui s'est rendu coupable d'un génocide caractérisé reconnu c o m e  tel par  tout le monde, n'ont droit de parole dans aucune instance internationale et  surtout pas à l'Unesco. Ce régime génocide est si décrié par l'opinion publique  mondiale que son chef a dû dernièrement donner sa démission. Mesdames, Messieurs,  chers collègue:, on peut démissionner d'un titre ou d'une fonction, mais on ne  pourra jamais démissionner" du crime génocide qu'on a perpétré contre l'humanité  et contre son propre peuple. Troisièmement, ces calomnies mentionnées plus haut  émanant d'un tel régime, ne méritent pas plus longue réponse. Nous remettrons au  Comité de vérification des pouvoirs une lettre plus détaillée faisant état de  notre protestation contre la présence de la soi-disant délégation du Kampuchea  démocratique génocide et nous demandons que cette lettre soit insérée dans le  rapport complet du Comité. Merci Monsieur le Président, merci chers collègues.
(9)  representative of Tunisia.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the representative of Viet Nam, and I now give the floor to the  o b ~ ~ s  +I v~ L,., + UJI ~i-;~-..,le~,++ ,J&I~I 4 - s ~  LO d l  &AI G+ \.>y  JjJr,ö 1: -....- I I  .LPI ++ ~4 31-11 3+r 3 9  4 b31-1 L, .&I p s ~  +r pul e,, Gd~g  >bsil, +lsiJl b e  I>, .;s, &J, ' J&lYI 31 .+ p +3 L+IJ,W p .L+ 91 #ë̂ Jl, > I 4 1   J L k  1 9  .~h.+9k l+&IAlg +ILS9 4 p 9 1  & cp 'Lk.04 ."d,dl .as+l L+ 3 i>b 6 G+l,
(10.1) Mr CHEDLI (Tunisia) (Translation from the Arabic):  By your leave, I would like to take the floor to draw your attention to the  motives behind the signing of Israel's credentials in Jerusalem. It is another example  of Israel's persistent defiance of and disregard for the resolutions of the United  Nations. By signing its credentials in Jerusalem it is emphasizing the fact that it  considers that city its capital. We are told that Rule 22 does not specify the place  where credentials must be signed and that these papers can be signed anywhere; it only  indicates by whom they must be signed, namely the head of the State, the head of the  government, the Minister of Foreign Affairs or any other minister authorized by him.  We believe that credentials should be looked at as a whole, however, and that their  contents should be regarded not in terms of their form but in terms of their spirit  and substance. Credentials indicate first of all the country issuing them, beginning  with the place where they were signed. If that were not the case, we might find the  credentials of Tunisia issued at Paris, those of France issued at Beijing, the creden-  tials of Beijing at Algiers and so forth, leading us all into a mad swirl.
(10.2) Mr President, Israel's action is typical of its behaviour, which has always  been based on oppression, aggression, and defiance and confronting the world with  faits accomplis. What was its attack of 1 October this year on peaceful independent  Tunisia, the land of dialogue and goodwill, but an example of its crimes and an illus-  tration of its arrogance? For all the death and destruction which Israel has left  behind, however, the condemnation of its action by the international community, as  represented by the Security Council, and the unanimous nature of that condemnation  (apart from one abstention) give grounds for optimism and lead us to hope that Unesco  will take a firm stand and refuse to accept such dubious credentials from a country  that is so contemptuous of principles and so aggressive towards others. Thank you,  Mr President.
(11)  the Head of the Delegation of Democratic Kampuchea.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the delegate of Tunisia for his words, and I now give the floor to
12.1 M. OK SAKUN (Kampuchea démocratique) :  Monsieur le Président, je vous remercie de m'avoir accordé la parole  pour répondre aux propos tenus tout à l'heure par le délégué du Viet Nam. Le  Kampuchea est beaucoup plus petit que le Viet Nam, presque dix fois moins  peuplé ; nous avons besoin de la paix pour mener à bien l'édification de notre  pays et améliorer le niveau de vie de notre peuple, mais face à l'agression  vietnamienne, le peuple du Kampuchea se voit dans l'obligation de mener la lutte  pour défendre son indépendance et assurer sa propre survie. Cependant, tout en  menant la lutte, le gouvernement de coalition du Kampuchea démocratique est  disposé à rechercher tous les moyens pour parvenir à un règlement politique afin  que le Viet Nam retire ses forces d'agression. C'est pour cette raison que nous  n'avons pas écarté toute négociation avec le Viet Nam.
12.2 Dans sa déclaration en date du 28 août dernier, le Conseil des ministres  du gouvernement de coalition du Kampuchea démocratique réuni sous la présidence  de Son Altesse Royale le Prince Norodom Sihanouk, président du Kampuchea démo-  cratique, précise : "NOUS voudrions affirmer à nouveau qu'une fois toutes les  forces vietnamiennes retirées du Kampuchea, nous souhaitons sincèrement signer  avec la République socialiste du Viet Nam un traité de coexistence pacifique, de  non-agression et de respec,t mutuel qui pourrait être garanti par les Nations  Unies. I'
12.3 Malheureusement, les propos tenus par le délégué vietnamien aujourd'hui  montrent que la position du Viet Nam reste inflexible. En persistant à renverser  les rôles pour tenter de masquer et justifier son agression comme il l'a fait  tout à l'heure, le Viet Nam s'obstine cette année encore dans la poursuite de sa  guerre d'agression. Le gouvernement de coalition du Kampuchea démocratique n'a  donc guère d'autre possibilité que de continuer la lutte avec détermination  jusqu'à ce que les agresseurs acceptent une solution politique en retirant leurs  forces de notre pays.
12.4 Certes, nous avons à faire face à un Viet Nam beaucoup plus puissant que  nous et qui est, au surplus, rusé, sournois, maniant sans pudeur la division et  la supercherie comme on vient de l'entendre. Mais l'évolution de la lutte de  notre peuple, au cours de ces sept dernières années, a montré que plus le  Viet Nam s'ingénie à régler le problême du Kampuchea par la force militaire, plus  il s'enlise, plus il s'épuise sur les champs de bataille, au Kampuchea comme au  Viet Nam même, tandis que sur le plan international, la réprobation de la commu-  nauté internationale ne cesse de s'amplifier et de s'affirmer d'une année à  l'autre, face à la prolongation de cette intolérable agression. C'est pourquoi,  Monsieur le Président, nous avons la conviction que quelle que soit l'obstination  de l'agresseur, quelle que soit sa perfidie, la lutte de notre peuple et le  mouvement de soutien puissant à cette lutte qui émane de l'écrasante majorité des  pays dans le monde, ne manqueront pas de contribuer à promouvoir un règlement  politique du problème du Kampuchea démocratique fondé sur le retrait des forces  d'agression et le respect des droits inaliénables de notre peuple à décider de sa  propre destinée.
12.5 En terminant, je saisis cette occasion pour renouveler, au nom du  gouvernement de coalition du Kampuchea démocratique et de Son Altesse Royale le  Prince Norodom Sihanouk, président du Kampuchea démocratique, ma profonde gra-  titude aux pays épris de paix, de justice et de liberté dans le monde qui  accordent sympathie et soutien à la lutte de notre peuple et en particulier, aux
110 Etats membres de l'Organisation des Nations unies qui, par leur vote, ont  exigé le retrait des forces d'agression de mon pays et dont je salue ici les  éminents représentants à la vingt-troisième session de la Conférence générale.  Merci Monsieur le Président.
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I give the floor to the delegate of Israel.
14. Mr SHAMIR (Israel) :  May I draw to the attention of this distinguished assembly that  Jerusalem for the Jewish people is not what Paris is for the Chinese and not what  Peking is for the French. Thank you, Mr President.
(15) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I give the floor to the delegate of Peru.
(16) Mr COZ BOTTERI (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  First of all, I should like to congratulate the Credentials Committee on its  magnificent report. I was, however, surprised that the name of my country was men-  tioned among those that had not duly presented their credentials. In fact, my Ministry  of Foreign Affairs informed me by telex yesterday that the Delegation of Peru had been  accredited to the General Conference with full powers. Thank you very much,  Mr President.
(17) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  the delegate of Peru.  I give the floor to Mr Luckhoo, who would like to comment on the statement of
18. Mr LUCKHOO (Guyana), Chairman of the Credentials Committee:  just said, since I was otherwise engaged at the time?  May I ask you, Mr President, to be so kind as to repeat what Peru has
(19) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I will ask the delegate of Peru to repeat his remarks.
(20) Mr COZ BOTTERI (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  With great pleasure, Mr President. I simply wish to point out that the name  of my country did not appear among those countries with full powers. As Head of the  Delegation of Peru, I yesterday received a cable from my Ministry of Foreign Affairs  informing me that my delegation had already been duly accredited to the General Con-  ference of Unesco. Thank you very much.
(21) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr Luckhoo.  Perhaps the credentials have not been received. I now give the floor to
22. Mr LUCKHOO (Guyana), Chairman of the Credentials Committee:  Mr President, the Secretariat disclosed fully at the meeting the names  of the several countries which had communicated in due form according to the  rules, and I accepted and the Committee accepted what was communicated to us by  the Secretariat. May I ask whether you would be good enough to ask Miss Dock  whether in any of her records the name of Peru appears?
(23) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank Mr Luckhoo. I now give the floor to the Legal Adviser.
24. Le CONSEILLER JURIDIQUE :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Le pouvoir dont parle M. le  délégué du Pérou est en effet une note de l'ambassade à Paris, que le Secrétariat  a effectivement reçue. Cependant, l'Article 22 du Règlement intérieur de la  Conférence générale prévoit que les pouvoirs définitifs doivent émaner du Chef de
1'Etat ou du gouvernement ou du Ministre des affaires étrangères ou bien d'un  autre ministre dûment autorisé par le Ministre des affaires étrangères à délivrer  les pleins pouvoirs. Aussi, Monsieur le Président, la note de l'ambassade du  Pérou, datée du 7 octobre 1985, telle qu'examinée ce matin par le Comité de  vérification des pouvoirs, représente-t-elle un pouvoir provisoire, mais ne  peut-elle être considérée, au sens de l'Article 22 du Règlement intérieur, comme  un pouvoir définitif. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
(25) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  African Republic.  I thank the Legal Adviser. I give the floor to the delegate of the Central
26.  tout  Comi  M. BLAGUE (République centrafricaine) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Si je prends la parole, c'est  : simplement pour rectifier une partie du rapport que M. Luckhoo, président du  .té de vérification des pouvoirs, nous a fait cet après-midi. En effet, il a  été dit que la délégation centrafricaine ne serait pas en possession de pouvoirs  dûment signés par le Ministère des affaires étrangères. Or, nous disposons bel et  bien de tels pouvoirs et de ce fait nous satisfaisons aux conditions de l'Article
22 du Règlement intérieur. C'est tout ce que nous voulions dire. Je vous  remercie, Monsieur le Président.
(27) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  the floor to Mr Luckhoo if he has any further comments to make on the subject.  I believe that your credentials have not reached the Secretariat. I now give
28. Mr LUCKHOO (Guyana), Chairman of the Credentials Committee:  necessary information based on the records she has before her.  May I again ask through you, Mr President, that Miss Dock give the
(29) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I give the floor to the Legal Adviser.
30. Le CONSEILLER JURIDIQUE :  Monsieur le Président, la République centrafricaine figure sur la liste  des délégations ayant présenté des pouvoirs définitifs. I1 n'y a pas de problème.
(31) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  matter.  There is no problem with regard to the Central African Republic in this
31    STATEMENT BY THE TEMPORARY PRESIDENT CONCERNING ARREARS OF CONTRIBUTIONS  DECLARACION DEL PRESIDENTE PROVISIONAL RELATIVA A LAS CONTRIBUCIONES ATRASADAS
3~OJI)KEHHOCTB li0 B3HOCAM: 3MBJlEHkIE BPEMEHHOI'O IIPEJICEJIATEJISI  ARRIERES DE CONTRIBUTIONS : DECLARATION DU PRESIDENT PROVISOIRE  &+Il 491 o& : ö > U I  &Lsl_ry9I  %R&%: it#MkB&&R
(32.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  Now, ladies and gentlemen, I should like, in my capacity as President of the  General Conference, to submit a proposal to you which is actually an extension of a  practice that has been customary and traditional at previous sessions. My proposal is  that the General Conference should note the report of the Credentials Committee with  the reservations that have been expressed by a number of delegates regarding the  validity of the credentials of some countries' delegations. Concerning the validity of  the credentials of the Israeli Delegation, the General Conference might also note the  reservations that have been expressed on the grounds of United Nations and Unesco  resolutions. In that way the General Conference will make it clear that acceptance of  the credentials of the Israeli Delegation does not in any way imply recognition of  measures taken by Israel to alter the legal status of the city of Jerusalem. May I  take it that you are all agreed on the report of the Committee? Then it is so decided.
(32.2) Ladies and gentlemen, we now proceed to the next item on our agenda for this  meeting, which concerns communications received from Member States invoking the terms  of Article IV, paragraph 8 (c) of the Constitution with regard to arrears of budget  contributions. The documents that you have before you on this item are 23 Cf40 and  Add. As you know, Article IV, paragraph 8 (b) of the Constitution provides that a  Member State shall have no vote in the General Conference if the total amount of con-  tributions due from it exceeds the total amount of contributions payable by it for the  current year and the immediately preceding calendar year. I should also like to remind  you that under paragraph 8 (c) of that same Article of the Constitution, Article IV,  the General Conference may nevertheless permit such a Member State to vote if it is  satisfied that failure to pay is due to conditions beyond the control of the member  nation.
(32.3) The present situation is as follows. There are 15 Member States that have not  paid the contributions referred to in Article IV, paragraph 8 (b) of the Constitution.  These States are: Belize, Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Comoros, El Salvador, Guinea-Bissau,  Lebanon, Liberia, Mauritania, Paraguay, Peru, Dominican Republic, Romania, Cao Tome  and Principe and Uganda. The Executive Board examined this matter at its 122nd  session, in accordance with Rule 79, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference, and considered the communications it had received from some of the  States concerned, namely Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Dominican Republic, El Salvador,  Lebanon, Peru, Romania and Sao Tome and Principe. On this question it adopted a recom-  mendation to the General Conference to the effect that these Member States should be  permitted to vote at the twenty-third session.
(32.4) Ladies and gentlemen, if there are no comments I shall consider that you have  adopted this recommendation. It is so decided.
(32.5) I should also like to inform you that after the Executive Board had adopted  the recommendation which you have just adopted, Uganda also invoked the provisions of  Article IV, paragraph 8 (c) of the Constitution. If there are no comments, I shall  consider that you agree that Uganda should be permitted to vote. It is so decided.  ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA  ADOPTION DE L'ORDRE DU JOUR  APROBACION DEL ORDEN DEL DIA  nPkIHRTME nOBECTKM HHR  JLes(dl Js+ a w l   ì@ì&ix$3
(33) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Ladies and gentlemen, we must now adopt the provisional agenda. You have  before you document 23 Cl1 Prov., the provisional agenda, and 23 C/l Prov. Corr. 2. I  now give the floor to Mr Patrick Seddoh, Chairman of the Executive Board, who will  inform you about the results of the Board's discussion of the provisional agenda.
34.1 Mr SEDDOH (Ghana), Chairman of the Executive Board:  Thank you, Mr President. In accordance with Article VR.S(a) of the Con-  stitution, it is the Executive Board which prepares the agenda for the General  Conference. Accordingly, for the twenty-third session of the General Conference,  the Board undertook this task at its 121st session on the basis of a document  prepared by the Director-General and to which it made certain additions and modi-  fications. Document 23 C/l Prov. dated 8 July 1985, contained the provisional  agenda submitted by the Executive Board. In the relevant decision 6.1 of its
121st session, the Executive Board also decided and I quote: 'that any other  items submitted by Member States or Associate Members ... not later than 100 days  before the opening of the session (i.e. by 30 June 19851, in accordance with  Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure, shall be included by the Director-General in  the provisional agenda'.
34.2 I have to report that one such item was indeed proposed and this is  item 4.1.6 which was listed in document 23 C/l Prov. Add. dated 22 July 1985.
34.3 Document 23 C/1 Prov. Corr. 2 which is now before the General Conference  contains all the items previously listed in documents 23 C/l Prov., 23 C/l Prov.  Add. and 23 C/l Prov. Corr. In other words, it replaces the documents issued  previously and is the sole provisional agenda before the Conference at this time.  Mr President, this brings me to the end of the presentation of the provisional  agenda which the Board has prepared in accordance with the Organization's consti-  tutional requirement. I thank you.
(35) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Chairman'of the Executive Board for his presentation of the  agenda. I now ask, are there any comments on this matter? I give the floor to the  representative of Mauritania.
(36) Mr OULD SID'AHMED (Mauritania) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. I should like to inform you that my country, for  reasons beyond its control, is momentarily in arrears with its contributions at this  time, but undertakes to pay them very shortly. Accordingly, my country would be most  grateful if this Conference would permit it to participate with the right to vote.  Thank you, Mr President.
(37) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the representative of Mauritania, but I ask again, are there any com-  ments on the agenda which has been presented by the Chairman of the Executive Board? I  give the floor to the delegate from Senegal.
38.1 M. THIAM (Sénégal) :  Je vous remercie beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président,  en ce qui concerne le point 4 de l'ordre du jour, je voudrais attirer votre  attention sur le fait que le document 23 Cl1 Prov. Corr.2 que vous nous avez  soumis contient non seulement l'intitulé des questions qui doivent être examinées  mais les références à ces questions ainsi que le document qui a été produit pour  permettre à la Conférence générale de débattre de ces questions de manière  suffisamment avertie. Or je constate qu'il a un certain nombre de questions qui  figurent dans l'ordre du jour provisoire avec une référence, mais que le document  qui devait être joint n'a pas été soumis. Comme il s'agit dans la plupart des cas  de problèmes extrêmement épineux qui nécessitent des approches modulées et qui,  de ce fait, gagneraient largement à être fondés sur un document de base - lequel  pourrait, en présentant les éléments sur lesquels se fonde la proposition,  favoriser les conditions d'un débat susceptible de déboucher sur les solutions  acceptables pour tous - je souhaiterais, pour éviter que nous nous engagions dans  une voie qui pourrait être lourde de conséquences pour la continuation de nos  travaux, que toutes les questions qui figurent sur ce document mais qui n'ont pas  fait l'objet d'un document pertinent produit par les pays en question ne soient  pas examinées, purement et simplement, faute de quoi nous allons nous trouver  engagés dans une procédure extrêmement difficile.
38.2 Bien entendu je n'ignore rien des dispositions du Règlement intérieur de  la Conférence générale, notamment les Articles 10 A à 14. Je sais que, dans le  cas d'espèce, nous aurions dû avoir un document dans la mesure du possible. Nous  ne l'avons pas et c'est la raison pour laquelle je pense vraiment qu'il serait  hasardeux de se lancer dans des discussions sur des questions introduites à  brûle-pourpoint, sans que nous ayons un document de base expliquant de façon  détaillée les raisons d'une telle proposition. J'ajouterai que si, sur ces  différentes questions, -il existe des documents de base mais que le Bureau les a  reçus de façon trop tardive pour pouvoir les inscrire dans le document distribué,  ma proposition est alors sans objet. Monsieur le Président, je vous remercie.
(39) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  agenda items you regard as lacking in this respect?  I thank the delegate from Senegal. Would you please specify exactly which
40. M. THIAM (Sénégal) :  Monsieur le Président, à la lecture du document 23 Cl1 Prov. Corr.2, je  constate que, pour les points 4.12, 4.13, 4.14, 4.16 et 9.9 - cette liste n'est  pas limitative - on n'a pas indiqué le document prévu pour les introduire. Mais  je répète là encore que, si d'aventure un document existe, que le Secrétariat n'a  pas mis à notre disposition parce qu'il est arrivé tardivement ou en raison de  contraintes de temps, ma proposition ne s'applique plus. En revanche, s'il s'agit  de questions sur lesquelles il n'y a pas de document, je souhaite purement et  simplement qu'on ne les aborde pas.
(41) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  the question asked by the delegate from Senegal.  I thank the delegate from Senegal. The Deputy Director-General will reply to
42. Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL ADJOINT :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais apporter ici une  précision en ce qui concerne les points 4.12, 4.13 et 4.14. I1 existe des projets  de résolution qui ont été déposés par les Etats qui ont demandé l'inscription de  ces points à l'ordre du jour. En ce qui concerne le point 4.12, je crois que ce  projet est déjà publié ; pour le point 4.13 et pour le point 4.14, ils sont en  voie de l'être. En ce qui concerne le point 4.14 notamment, il s'agit d'un projet  de résolution qui est accompagné d'une note explicative particulièrement subs-  tantielle. Par ailleurs, en ce qui concerne le point 8.7, dont l'inscription a  été demandée par un certain nombre d'Etats, un document qui reproduit la demande  de ces Etats est en cours de préparation et sera donc publié. Voilà les infor-  mations que je peux donner, à ce stade, à la Conférence générale. Je vous  remercie, Monsieur le Président.
(43) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Deputy Director-General. I hope that Mr Thiam, the Head of the  Delegation of Senegal, has heard these remarks and has found them adequate. The Deputy  Director-General would like to make one further comment.
44. Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL ADJOINT :  Excusez-moi, Monsieur le Président, je voudrais ajouter qu'en ce qui  concerne le point 14.1 aussi, un projet de résolution a été déposé et est en  cours de publication. En revanche, il n'existe pas à ma connaissance de projet de  résolution sur le point 4.16, pas plus que sur les points 8.5 et 9.9, ni d'autre  document que les communications par lesquelles les Etats membres ont demandé  l'inscription de ces points à l'ordre du jour. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le  Président.
(45.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic) :  I thank the Deputy Director-General. I think these comments are quite ade-  quate for our purpose. Are there are any further comments on the agenda?
(45.3)  If there are no further comments I take it that you agree, and accordingly it  Mr Thiam has asked for the floor again. Mr Thiam.
46. M. THIAM (Sénégal) :  Monsieur le Président, en raison de problèmes d'écouteurs je n'ai pas pu  suivre le débat. Vous avez dit que nous somes d'accord, mais j 'aimerais savoir  sur quoi noussommes d'accord. En ce qui concerne les questions qui ne font pas  l'objet d'un document, sommes-nous d'accord sur le fait qu'il est plus sage de ne  pas les adjoindre à notre ordre du jour à cette phase-ci de nos débats ou, au  contraire, que nous devons les accepter ? J'aimerais clarifier la question. Car  il ne nie paraît pas opportun d'inscrire à notre ordre du jour des questions qui  ne font pas l'objet d'un document pertinent et qui, en outre, sont susceptibles  de générer des conflits.
(47) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I suggest to the Head of the Delegation of Senegal that it may be lack of  clarity in the interpretation that has caused this confusion. The Deputy Director-  General has provided clarification with respect to those agenda items for which docu-  ments have not been made available. Perhaps you did not hear the interpretation and  that is why this confusion has not been cleared up. Do you want me to ask the Deputy  Director-General to repeat what he said in that connection? Mr Deputy Director-  General, would you please repeat the remarks you made just now.
48.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL ADJOINT :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Voici quelle est la situation  en ce qui concerne les points qui, dans le document 23 Cil Prov. Corr.2, ne com-  portent pas de mention de document dans la colonne de droite. Pour le point 4.12,  il existe un projet de résolution. Pour le point 4.13, il existe également un  projet de résolution en cours de publication. I1 en est de même pour le  point 4.14 : un projet de résolution et une note explicative sont en cours de  publication. En ce qui concerne le point 4.16, pour le moment il n'existe pas de  document en dehors de la coqunication demandant l'inscription de ce point 5  l'ordre du jour.
48.2 Je passe maintenant au point 8.5. Nous ne disposons pas non plus de  document particulier à l'appui de l'étude de ce point de l'ordre du jour. Pour ce  qui est du point 8.7, la question a fait l'objet d'une communication des Etats  membres qui ont demandé l'inscription de ce point à l'ordre du jour et cette  communication doit faire l'objet d'un document qui sera publié incessamment. En  ce qui concerne le point 9.9, il n'existe pas à l'heure actuelle de document  autr.e que la demande d'inscription de ce point à l'ordre du jour, et en ce qui  concerne le point 14.1 un projet de résolution déposé auprès de la Conférence  générale est en cours de publication. Voilà la situation Monsieur le Président.
(49) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Deputy Director-General. Mr Thiam is asking for the floor again.
50. M. THIAM (Sénég?l! :  Monsieur le President, je remercie le Directeur général adjoint des  informations qu'il m'a données. Le problème qui nous préoccupait s'en trouve  pratiquement résolu ; en effet il apparaît que sur les 7 à 8 points en question,
36    deux seulement n’ont pas fait l’objet de documents et que pour ce qui concerne un  autre, un document va être publié à bref délai. Dans ces conditions, je pense que  ma proposition peut être mise en oeuvre. Je crois en effet que pour les deux  points, malgré tout importants, pour lesquels il n’existe pas de document qui  puisse nous guider dans la. discussion et nous éviter des pertes de temps, il  vaudrait mieux ne pas les inscrire à l’ordre du jour. Telle est simplement la  question que je pose.
(51) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  ment 23 Cl1 Prov. Corr. 2. I now give the floor to the delegate from Jamaica.  I believe we have taken our decision concerning the agenda contained in docu-
52. Mr WYNTER (Jamaica) :  Mr President, as you have just said, we have dealt with the item. But in  any case, Mr President, there is nothing in the Rules of Procedure that says that  an item has to be accompanied by a document; that would be to introduce a new  concept in our procedures. While I appreciate the concern of the Head of the  Delegation cif Senegal for documentation, I think we ought to observe the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference. Thank you, Mr President.
(53) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  from Canada.  I thank the delegate from Jamaica, and I now give the floor to the delegate
54. Mr WILSON (Canada):  Thank you, Mr President. Mine was simply a point of order: as Mr Wynter  said, we did take a decision; you brought down your gavel at 35 minutes after
5 o’clock. And I put the case that there is in fact no room for further dis-  cussion of the agenda that we have adopted without going through the whole pro-  cess prescribed in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
(55.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  the work of this meeting.
(55.2)  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Canada. We are now coming to the end of  I now declare this meeting closed.  The meeting rose at 5.45 p.m.  La séance est levée à 17 h.45  Se levanta la sesión a las 17.45