Fourteenth plenary meeting
16 October 1985 at 11.10 a.m.  President: Mr CINGH (India)  Quatorzième séance plénière
1. The PRESIDENT:  I have the honour to open the fourteenth plenary meeting on behalf of  the President of the General Conference who is detained in the meeting of the  General Committee. I give the floor to H.E. Mr M.M. Krougiei, First Vice-  Minister of Education and head of the delegation of the Byelorussian Soviet  Socialist Republic.
2.1 r-H KPYrJlER (BenopyccRaa CoBeTcRaa CoyeanucTwsecxaa Pecnybnw~a):  YsaxaeMbIR iïpencenaTenb, ysaxaeMbIR reeepanbabiR nwpemop, yBaxaeMbIe nenera-  TbI! IIpeXne BCerO II XOSY nO3npaBWTb TOBapwnia TOaOpOBa B CBI13H C WS6paHHeM er0 Ha  H IlOXenaTb eMy yCneXOB B BbIiTOJlHeHWW CTOnb OTBeTCTBeHHOR MWCCWN. XOYY TaRXe BbIpa-
3 W T b  UCKpeHHHIH) lTpU3HaTeJlbHOCTb Hamefi AeneraUww rOCynapCTBeHHOMy COBeTY, npaBHTeJïb-  B~ICOKHR n o m  IIpencenaTena nBanuaTb TpeTbeR ceccww reHepanbHoR RoH@epeHuww DHECKO  CTBY w Hapony Bonrapwu 3a TY 3a6OTY, ROTOPYH) OHW npoaanaa~ o Hac, neneraTax.
2.2 YaaxaeMbiti IIpencenaTenbi Renerauwa BenopyccKoR CoseTcxoR CouwanucTwsecxoB  Pecny6nwxw npunaeT 60nbmOe S H ~ Y ~ H W ~  nBanuaTb TpeTbeü ceccww reeepanbeos RoH@epeH-  rona w Ha ocHoBe BToporo CpenHecpowioro nnaea onpenenmb RoHKpeTHbIe sanasw DHECKO  UWW. HaM npenCT0ilT He TOJIbRO llOABeCTl3 HT0I.W pa60TbI OpI'aHHSaUHll 3a npOmenm€ie SiBa  Ha 1986-1987 FOAbI, HO U n0nTBepnHTb CBOH) peml3MOCTb €i naJibille CJleHOBaTb RYPCOM ROH-  CTPYKTHBHOPO COTPYAHWYeCTBap P~ROBOACTBYXCb 6JIarOpOnHbIMH UeJiRMWr SanOll(eHHbIMW B ee  YcTaBe.
2.3 MWPOBOMY COO6nieCTBy XOpOüiO UBBeCTHO, YTO DHECKO CTana CTOnb aBTOPWTeTHOR  OpI'aHH3aUkleR HMeHHO 6naronapa CBOeMy iIOCJleAOBaTeJ'IbHOMy W HeYWìOHHOMY CTpeMneHiiH,  COAefiCTBOBaTb, B PaMKaX CBOefi ROMïieTeHUUW, peüieHEf€û aRTyanbHbIX MWPOBbiX npO6neM €i,  BOOpyXeHXl%, npen0TBpaJiIeHHe FIAepHOR RaTaCTpO@bI. DHECKO aKTUBHO W HaCTORPHBO BeLIeT
60pb6y C RO~OHWa~W3MOM, PaCW3MOM U anapTeHn0M - CaMbiMW OTBpaTHTeJïbHbIMW PeUilAHBaMw  npexne mero, BHocwTb CBOR B m a n  B coxpaeeawe u ynpenneene Mwpa, 06y3na~ue roHRw  npomnoro B Hame apewa.
2.4 Benopyccffaa nenerauwn npw3b1sae~ Bce rocynapcTaa-sneabi nponBwTb MynpocTb H  noópya B O ~ K )  Ha HbIHemHeR ceccnw, c TeM YT O O ~ I  DHECKO w nanbme cnenosana STWM RYPCOM,  ~ ~ 0 6 b 1  u snpenb OCHOBHO~ c@epoR ee nenTenbHocTw OcTaBanacb wmennemyanbHaa H ny-  XOBHaR XW3Hb 06nieCTBa B CaMOM ~HpOKOM CMbICne 3TOFO ïIOBSITWR. nOnblTKa HeROTOPbIX Clin  YBeCTw HeXTenbHOCTb DHECKO OT HCCJieAOBaHWX MWPOBbIX ïiOnHTWYeCRWX np06neM 03HaYaeTr  Ha Ham ~ ~ r n a n ,  cTpeMneHue nonopBaTb ycTow caMoR Oprariwsaqww, ~ a ~ a 3 a ~ b  eR ponb Tex-  HwrlecRoro areHTcTBa B npoaeneaww paseoro pona Meponpwmwü B o6nac~u O ~ ~ ~ ~ O B ~ H W R ,   HayRw, RynbTypbl w wH@opMauaa. B CBIISII c STWM, ysaxaeme neneraTbI, a xoTen 6b1 o6pa-  MepoM 143 "iïonpaBxa R npoemy nporpawm w banxe~a Ha 1986-1987 rr. (23 C/5)", KO-  ~opb~ti npamwsecm O S H ~ Y ~ ~ T  nomiya pe~wsum pemem8 HcnonmTenbHoro coaeTa no BTOMY  u ~ p y n ~ y a  p óo~y, R O T O ~ ~ H )  nponenan HcnonHwTenbHbIR coBeT. Aenerauua Benopyccww  cTBoBaTb ycnemaou pa6o~e HbIHemHeR ceccww I'exiepanbeoR RoHQepeHuws.
2.5  IIpw ~ T O M  noHwManocb, VTO RaR 6yATO 6b1 obpa3osa~we, HayRa, KynbTypa u naxe HH@OP-  nonuTwKa, HO nonmuRa YBeCTil DHECKO OT ee ueneti w O ~ R ~ ~ H H O C T ~ R ,  3 a n o x e ~ ~ t .1~ B YcTa-  Be. Benb Bce M ~ I  npeffpaceo noHwMaeM, YTO conepxaawe w HanpaBneHHocTb 06pa30BaHHR  r y ~ a ~ u 3 ~ a  wnu Hacwnwn. Pa3se Hac He 6eCnOROUT, YTO HeceT B Y M ~ I  w nymw nH)neR, w  npemne m e r o  Mononexw, coBpeMemaa, TaR ~ a 3 b 1 ~ a e ~ a a  M ccoBan KynbTypa? RsnneTcn nw  Bpanieewn ?
2.6 YsaxaeMbie neneraw! Cpenw 3 a n a ~  DHECKO ecTb rnaman, ~ a n w c a ~ ~ a a  B nepBoR  cTpone ee YcTasa - sana~a coxpaHeHws Mwpa Ha Je~ne. TonbKo B ycno~wnx Mwpa MoryT  HepanmoR KoHQepeHuue. iïpw STOM MM He MoxeM He O C O ~ H ~ B ~ T ~  Toro HenpenoxHoro @ama,  YTO YenoBeYeCTBo ~ c ~ y n w n o  B RnepHbIR Bex, xapa~~epw3ynmuRca HaKonneHweM orpoMaoro  pa3pymn~enb~oro noTeHuwana, cnoco6~oro MHoroKpaTHo yHwYToxwTb Bce x m o e  Ha Se~ne.  TWTb same BHUMaHWe Ha BHeCeHHbIR COeAwHeHHbIM KOpOJleBCTBOM ïbpOeKT pe3OJiiOUwH non HO-  BOnpOCy. TeM CaMbIM ilpOeKT 3TOR pe3OJï€ûUUEi npeAnaraeT HaM nepeYepKHyTb TY OrPOMHYiû  CYWTaeT, YTO TaROfI IIOüXOA He COOTBeTCTBYeT AyXy COTpynHwYeCTBa U He 6yneT cnoco6-  B ~ T O M  sane s~yranu npn3b1~b1 HeKoTopbIx opaTopoB He npeapaniaTb Ceccwa B no-  JlHTHYeCXyHl A9EICRYCCHK)r a CROHUeHTPWPOBaTb OCHOBHOe BHWMaHHe Ha AORyMeHTe 23 c/5.  MaUHX MOrYT 6bITb BHe iïOJiWTiáRW. Mbl CYUTaeM, VTO YTBepXnaTb nono6eoe - 3T0 W eCTb  MOPYT 6bITb pa3HbIMU, HanpMMep, MOIHO BOCnUTbIBaTb n0npaCTaïûniee ~ O R O ~ e H W e  B AyXe Mupa  WJIA BORHbI, B nyXe COTpyAHwYeCTBa C ApyrïiMH HapOAaMH HJIU BpaXne6HOCTw K HWM, BAyXe  OHa CpeACTBOM LlyXOBHOrO 060FaIIIeHwR Uni4 CPeACTBOM nyXOBHOr0 W HPaBCTBeHHO~O pas-
6bITb OCynieCTBneHbI Te npOrpaMMbI, ROTOpbIe MbI PaCCMaTpMBaeM Ha HaCTOffniefi CeCCWW re-
2.26 BenopyccKan nenerauux nonommenbeo oTHocnTcR R R ~ T I H O Ü  nporpaMMe XI.  OAHaICO MbI He MOXeM He 06paTEITb BHIIMaHIIR yBawtaeMbIX AeJleFaTOB Ha HeCOOTBeTCTBWe  COnepXaHUX ïipOeKTa KpynHOfi npOrpaMMbi 111 BTOPOMY CpenHeCpOsHOMy nSlaHy.
1987 rOL1bi C YYeTOM BHeCeHHblX Ha CeCCHU ROHCTPYKTHBHbIX lTpenJlOXeHPlfi M 3aMesaHiIfi RBU-  JïOCb 6bI BaXHblM BRJïaAOM B AeRTeJibHOCTb H)HECKO U ~pOneMOHCTpUpOBan0 661 MnpOBOMY CO-
06UleCTBy HaJiUVUe n06poR BOJIU CTpaH-YYaCTHAU K COTpYnHUYeCTBY.
2.29  TO KacaeTcx BenopyccKoR CoseTcRoü CounanncTusecKoñ Pecny6nnna, TO oHa,  RaK u npemne, 6yAeT npunepmMsaTbcs KOHCTPYICTWBHO~ nonmilm B nezTenbHocTn cTonb  aBTOpUTeTHOÜ U yBaXaeM08 MeXnyHapOnHOfi OPraHU3aUHUI ICaICOÜ RBJiReTCR H)HECKO.
2.30 nO3BOJlbTe BbIPa3RTb HaneXny, YTO BCe CTpaHbl-YYaCTH~Ubi npORBSIT ROHCTPYRTUB-  Hb1Ü lTOJlXOn npil 06CYX~eHMU BCeX BOnpOCOB lTOBeCTKM AHR U YTO HbiHeiüHRR CeCCEIR npOÜ-  DeT 3@@eKTRBHO M BHeCeT CBOR BKJLan B pa3BMTUe U yIlpOseHUe B3aHMOBblrOAHOI'O COTpyn-  HUYeCTBa B HHTepeCaX BCeX CTpaH U HaPonoB. BJIarOJlapH, 3a BHIIMaHMe.
(2.1) Mr KROUGLEI (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic) (Translation from the  Russian) :  Mr President, Director-General, delegates. I should like to begin by c0ngra.t-  dating Comrade Todorov on his election to the high office of President of the twenty-  third session of Unesco's General Conference and by wishing him success in such a  responsible post. I should also like to express the most sincere gratitude of our  delegation to the State Council, Government and people of Bulgaria for the concern  they are showing towards us delegates.
(2.2) Mr President, the Delegation of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic  attaches great significance to the twenty-third session of the Gen-eral Conference. We  are not only to sum up the work of the Organization over the past two years and, on  the basis of the second Medium-Term Plan, to determine UIWSCO'S tasks for 1986-1987,  but also confirm our determination to pursue further the course of constructive co-  operation, following the noble aims laid down in Unesco's Constitution.
(2.3) The world community is well aware that Unesco has become the authoritative  organization that it is preciselv because of its consistent and unswerving desire to  contribute, in its own fields of competence, to solving current world problems and,  above all, to make its own contribution to the preservation and strengthening of  peace, curbing the arms race and averting nuclear catastrophe. Unesco is actively and  persistently waging a struggle against colonialism, racism an.d apartheid, which are  the most detestable continuations into the present day of the evils of the past.
(2.4) The Byelorussian Delegation calls upon all Member States to display wisdom  and goodwill at the present session so that Unesco can further pursue this course and  so that the intellectual and spiritual life of society, in the broadest sense of the  term, remains the basic sphere of its activity. The attempt by some powers to divert  Unesco's activity away from the analysis of world political problems means in our view  seeking to undermine the foundations of the Organization, imposing upon it the role of  a technical agency carrying out various kinds of measures in the field of education,  science, culture and information. In that connection, distinguished delegates, I  should like to draw your attention to draft resolution 143 submitted by the United  Kingdom (Amendment to the Draft Programme and Budget for 1986-1987 (23 C/5)), which in  practical terms means a complete revision of the decisions of the Executive Board on  the subject. In the same way, this draft resolution proposes that we wipe out the  enormous and difficult work that the Executive Board has done. The delegation of Bye-  lorussia considers that such an approach does not conform to the spirit of CO-  operation and will not contribute to the success of the work of the present session of  the General Conference.
(2.5) Appeals have been heard from some speakers in this hall that the session  should not be turned into a political discussion, and that fundamental attention  should be focused on document 23 C/5. This was taken to mear? that education, science,  culture and even information can somehow or other be outside politics. We consider  that to assert such a thing is itself politics, but the politics of diverting Unesco  from its objectives and responsibilities as laid down in its Constitution. We all  understand perfectly well that the content and direction of education can be differ-  ent; for example it is possible to bring up the young in a spirit of peace or war, in  a spirit of co-operation with other peoples or enmity towards them, in a spirit of  humanism or coercion. Surely it is of concern to us what contemporary, so-called mass  culture puts into the hearts and minds of people, and especially young people? Is it a  means of spiritual enrichment or of spiritual and moral corruption?
(2.6) Delegates, of all Unesco's tasks the main ope, which is written in the first  line of its Constitution, is that of preserving peace on Earth. Only in conditions of  peace can the programmes we are considering at this General Conference be implemented.  We cannot fail to realize the indisputable fact that mankind has entered the nuclear  age, which is characterized by the stockpiling of massive destructive potential  capable of eliminating every living thing on Earth many times over. As the General  Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, Comrade  Gorbachov, said in his statement on French television on 1 October (and I quote): 'If  we are to survive and secure the future of our children and our children's children,  we must check the forces of madness, the forces of war and militarism. We must put out  the fire of war before it flares up' (end of quote).
(2.7) Taking that into account, the Delegation of Byelorussia regards it as excep-  tionally important and necessary to adopt the resolution tabled by the USSR on agenda  item 4.14 (Role of Unesco in generating a climate of world public opinion conducive to  the implanting and development of a new way of thinking in the nuclear era to avert  the threat of thermonuclear disaster). Speaking from this platform, the Head of the  Delegation of the Soviet Union, Comrade Stukalin, convincingly substantiated the  significance of the resolution. Associating myself with the draft resolution and fully  supporting the reasons for its introduction, I should like to draw the attention of  the distinguished delegates to the full danger of the efforts being made by forces  hostile to peace to militarize the minds of men, making wide use of the information  media they have at their disposal for that purpose. The Delegation of Byelorussia con-  siders that Unesco cannot disregard that fact. It can and must use its own resources  to assist peoples to understand the full danger of the arms race, and particularly the  nuclear arms race. In our view, the substance of the resolution to which I have  referred is in full accordance with Unesco's tasks in present circumstances.
(2.8) Intimately linked with that resolution in terms of its sense is the draft  resolution concerning agenda item 4.12 (Unesco's contribution to the International  Year of Peace), submitted by the German Democratic Republic and supported by a number  of other countries. As we all know, the General Assembly of the United Nations has  declared 1986 International Year of Peace and has appealed to the Specialized Agencies  of the United Nations system to contribute actively to putting it into effect. At its  twenty-second session, the General Conference adopted resolution 13.1 which said that  the Conference considered that it was (and I quote) 'Important for the Organization to  take the necessary measures, in 1984-1985, to assist in the preparation of that Inter-  national Year' (end of quote). The Ninth Regional Conference of the National Com-  missions for Unesco of the Countries of the Europe Region, which was held this year in  Greece, stressed the importance of supporting the measures taken by National Com-  missions and the programme of the International Year of Peace. That is why it seems  justified and logical to our delegation to adopt the resolution in question.
(2.9) The Byelorussian Delegation considers that the International Year of Peace,  coinciding as it does with the fortieth anniversary of the creation of Unesco, is a  golden opportunity for Member States to reaffirm their adherence to the aims and prin-  ciples of Unesco.
(2.10) As far as our republic is concerned, a commission for the International Year  of Peace was set up in April this year in accordance with a decision of the Presidium  of the Supreme Soviet of the Byelorussian SSR. A corresponding plan of measures was  drawn up by the Commission and is being implemented, and an active part is being  played in this by state bodies and social organizations, scientists, educators,  cultural and information workers, our creative intelligentsia and youth.
(2.11) For our people, as for the peoples of many other countries, the defence of  peace is not simply a political action. The struggle for peace is for us a struggle to  prevent a repetition of the tragedy of the last war, in which a quarter of our people  were killed. Towns both large and small were destroyed, including the capital of our  republic, the city of Minsk. During the war, hundreds of Byelorussian villages were  destroyed, many of them along with their inhabitants. All the material and spiritual  values of our people were annihilated or plundered. That is why we are calling on all  countries to do their utmost to bring up their peoples, and particularly the young
14  generation, in a spirit of peace and co-operation, hatred of war, and rejection of war  as a means of resolving conflicts. There is no more important and responsible task for  the world community in the nuclear age than the struggle for peace, against war,  against the arms race, and against attempts to extend the arms race from earth into  space.
(2.12) The Delegation of Byelorussia supports the draft resolution submitted by the  USSR on agenda item 4.7 (Unesco's contribution to peace, and its tasks with respect to  the promotion of human rights and the elimination of colonialism and racism). Taking  account of the statement on the matter by the Director-General, Mr M'Bow, the resol-  ution appeals to Member States to take all necessary steps to avert the threat of  nuclear war, to promote peaceful co-operation between peoples, to bring about a change  of course towards relaxation of tension and peaceful coexistence.
(2.13) Delegates, on item 14.1 of the agenda for consideration by the General Con-  ference is a draft resolution submitted by Czechoslovakia and other countries, 'Cele-  bration of the fortieth anniversary of the founding of Unesco'. This calls on Member  States to play an active part in celebrating this important anniversary and during  these celebrations to devote special attention to the need to strengthen people's  awareness of the ideals of peace, freedom and justice proclaimed in the Organization's  Constitution. Our delegation supports the proposal contained in the draft resolution  that a solemn meeting should be held during the autumn session of the Executive Board,  dedicated to the fortieth anniversary of the founding of Unesco.
(2.14) Mr President, the Delegation of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic  supports the view already expressed by a number of participating countries that the  financial difficulties that have arisen must in no way constitute a reson for the  Organization departing from the course laid down in the second Medium-Term Plan. We  consider that the programme for 1986-1987, being the second phase of that Plan, should  not depart from its guidelines.
(2.15) Previous speakers have already stressed the need for priority to be given to  programmes in the field of education. We understand the interest of the developing  countries in their implementation. In the outpost of tsarist Russia that Byelorussia  was before the Great October Socialist Revolution, the overwhelming majority of the  population was illiterate. Now we have a well-knit system of national education which  takes care of children and young people from birth to the time when they start work.  We have a widely developed social pre-school education system that gives women who are  mothers equal opportunities with men for taking part in production and the life of the  community. We are giving the entire post-war generation a complete secondary edu-  cation, and are providing the national economy with all the specialists with secondary  and higher qualifications that it needs. Our people rightly consider this as their  great socio-political achievement.
(2.16) The educational reform, which we began in 1984 and shall complete by 1990,  will enable us to bring the subject-matter of general and vocational education fully  into line with the level of development of science, culture and technology at the end  of the twentieth century and to complete the process of transition to universal  vocational education. In our republic 85 per cent of the younger generation in  addition to general education, complete middle and higher vqcational education.
(2.17) Our republic is giving active help to other countries in establishing and  improving national education systems. That help is not confined only to the work of  our specialists and experts in those countries. Thousands of students, trainees and  postgraduates from many countries of Asia, Africa, Latin America and Europe are study-  ing in our universities and institutes.
(2.18) Byelorussia is playing an active part in implementing various Unesco projects  in the fields of education, science and culture. In 1983 we hosted the first inter-  national congress on biosphere reserves. Together with 11 other Member States, Byelo-  russia took part in research into the theme of the Recommendation adopted at the  eighteenth session of Unesco's General Conference in 1974 and aimed at improving edu-  cation in mutual understanding, co-operation and peace in the Member States of the  Organization through the assimilation of fundamental freedoms and human rights, and  ethical and humanist values. The results of this research were considered by experts  recently in Helsinki.
(2.19) A Unesco international symposium on problems concerning the out-of-school  scientific activity of young people was held in Minsk this July, attended by special-  ists from 19 Member States in different regions of the world.
(2.20) We consider that an exchange of views between specialists OR problems falling  within the competence of Unesco, a pooling of world experience, is an important way of  improving national structures of education, science and culture. It enriches their  content and promotes mutual understanding and co-operation between peoples.
(2.21) Honourable delegates. In our opinion, the reduction in Unesco's budget must  be counterbalanced first of all by reducing administrative and management expenditure  so as to preserve the scale of the Organization's programme activity to the greatest  possible extent. In this connection, the Delegation of the Byelorussian SSR considers  that it is the correct policy to preserve, in the Organization's programme for 1986-
1987, the structure that has been developed, and on the whole it supports all the  major programmes presented in the draft programme and budget. At the same time, we  should like to draw the attention of delegates to the assigning of priority to indi-  vidual actions in the major programmes.
(2.22) In principle, our delegation supports Major Programmes II, IV and V. We look  upon the Secretariat's attempt to combine subprogrammes with understanding. At the  same time, we consider tht despite the recommendation of the Fourth International Con-  ference on Adult Education, an unjustified change of emphasis is being proposed in  Programme 11.3, 'Adult education'. Specifically, it is proposed that those sub-  programmes devoted to the most acute socio-economic aspects of the matter should be  moved to second and third places.
(2.23) The Delegation of the Byelorussian SSR fully supports Programme X.9,  'Environmental education and information', although we have serious criticisms to make  about draft Programme XIII.3, 'Education for peace and respect for human rights and  the rights of peoples'. It allows a deviation from the structure of the second Medium-  Term Plan, which in our view is under no circumstances justified, The delegation  thinks that priority should be given to option 1 but with the obligatory preservation  of Subprogramme XIII.3.4, 'Alerting and informing public opinion and support for youth  activities'.
(2.24) The Delegation of the Byelorussian SSR regards the pursuit of international  co-operation in the natural sciences within the framework of Unesco to be of excep-  tional importance, and therefore supports Major Programmes VI, VII, IX and X.
(2.25) I should like to draw the attention of delegates to certain aspects of the  major programmes concerning the social sciences. We consider that Major Programe I is  of exceptional importance since within it, concentration is possible and the methodo-  logical collation of world experience in the elaboration of global problems bearing in  mind the tasks and forms of activity of Unesco. This applies equally to the other  major programmes in the social sciences. In this connection, we consider that in docu-  ment 23 C/5 no weakening of important subprogrammes relating to the processes of  development and the planning and appraisal of development should be permitted. The  delegation considers that Major Programmes VI11 and XII1 should be strengthened, since  it regards them as pivotal in that they determine to a significant degree Unesco's  policy in the current international situation.
(2.26) The Byelorussian Delegation regards Major Programe XI in a positive light.  However, we cannot fail to draw the attention of delegates to the discrepancy between  the content of draft Major Programme III and the second Medium-Term Plan.
(2.27) Our delegation has been presenting specific observations on the programmes  mentioned, and is continuing to present them in the appropriate commissions.
(2.28) The Delegation of the Byelorussian SSR considers that approval of the Draft  Programme and Budget for 1986-1987, after taking account of the constructive proposals  and observations made at this session, would be an important contribution to Unesco's  activity and would demonstrate to the world community the goodwill of participating  countries with regard to co-operation.
(2.29) As far as the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic is concerned, it will  continue as it has in the past to adhere to the constructive policy adopted in the  activities of an authoritative and respected international organization like Unesco.
(2.30) Let me express the hope that all participating countries will display a con-  structive approach in discussing all the questions on the agenda, and that the present  session will proceed effectively and make its contribution to the development and con-  solidation of mutually advantageous co-operation in the interests of all countries and  peoples. Thank you.
3. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic, and I now give the floor to Mr A. Chaushev, Deputy Secretary of the  Council for Mutual Economic Assistance.
4.10 Kaa BHAHO w3 npencTaBnenmx nporpam, O ~ H W M  113 rnaBHmx nanpasneHwR nex-  TenbHOCTH IOHECKO IIBnReTCII COTpynHwYeCTBO B 06naCTW pa3BWTWR HayKS4 €i TeXHWRH. B  CBII3W C 3THM B RORUe CBOerO BbiCTynneHXX MHe XOTenOCb 6bI npOWH@OpMXpOBaTb Bac, YTO  B COOTBeTCTBWW C PemeHWeM 3ROHOMWYeCRO~O COBeIIIaHWIi Ha BbiCiüeM YpOBHe CTpaH - YneHOB  C3B ~ b l  ~ ~ I C ~ H Y W B ~ ~ M  pa3pa60TKy KoMnneacnoR nporpaMw Haywio-Texnsecnoro nporpecca  cTpan - YnenoB C3B na 15-20 neT. Uenb 3~0s nporpambi - 6bic~peRmee pemenne 06ntHMH
3 n e p r e ~ u ~ e ~  HOB~IX Bnnax MaTepnanoB w TexnonorwR, ~ W O T ~ X H O ~ O ~ W W .  KoMnneacHas npor-  p a m a  cTaneT HOBMM nanpasnenweM p a s ~ u ~ w n  couwanwcTwvecaoR SKOHOMUY~CROR wmerpa-  yCUnHirMH BaXHefiDMX IIp06neM B 06naCTH Hayiîy Fi TeXHWRW W npentne BCerO B ilpïiOp€iTeT-  HblX HanpaBneHiiirX COTpynHHYeCTBa - SJleKTPOHWRer ICOMnJIeKCHOR aBTOMaTU3aUAH~ aTOMHOfi  UUH, WHTeHCW@UICaUUH 3ROHOMWYeCICO~O pa3BWTHII 6paTCKHX CTpaH C3B. 3Ta np0rpaMMa MW-  pa, lipOrpeCCa H COTpynHHYeCTBa CO BCBMW CTpaHaMH.
4.11 Bce 3T0 6yAeT COneñCTBOBaTb YCROpeHHOMY pa3BUTHM U BHenpeHHM HOBehIHX no-  YCnOBMII JlJïFI PaCJlISäpeHwir COTpynHMYeCTBa C TPeTbWMïi CTpaHaMU, B TOM YHCJie C pa3BMBa-  MIIIWMWCII W C npOMbIiU~eHH0 pa3BHTbIMIï CTpaHaMX Mupa.  cTwaeHwR Haywio-Texnwqecaoro nporpecca B cTpanax C3B, 6 y n e ~  c 0 3 n a ~ a ~ b  He06XOnuMbIe
3aRJiH)rIeHHe XOYeTCII eIIIe pa3 3aBepXTb BaC B TOM, YTO COBeT 3KOHOMHYeCKOs B3aUMOnO-  pa3BXBaTb H yKpennIITb AenOBble ROHTaRTbI MetRay CeKpeTapwaTOM C3B U IOHECKO nnR 6onee  H)HECKO 6ynyT CnOC06CTBOBaTb Aeny yJïyYüieHHX B3aWMO~OHUMaHWR Meany HaPOLIaMW, Deny  Cnacwóo 3a BHWMaHiie.
(4.1) Mr CHAUSHEV (Council for Mutual Economic Assistance) (Translation from the  Russian) :  Comrade President, ladies, gentlemen, comrades, permit me on behalf of the  Secretariat of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance, an organization with ten  socialist member countries, to congratulate Comrade Todorov on being elected to the  distinguished post of President of the twenty-third session of Unesco's General Con-  ference, and to wish all participants successful and fruitful work.
(4.2) In this high forum we should like to express our satisfaction with the fact  that Unesco, true to its humane ideas and principles in the name of which the Organiz-  ation was founded, is pursuing an active and constructive policy in seeking solutions  to the most important global problems of mankind. The Director-General, Mr Amadou-  Mahtar M'Bow, in his report, spoke with much wisdom, great optimism and, at the same  time, with anxiety about these problems and about Unesco's activity, and almost all  the representatives of States who spoke talked with great respect of Unesco's  activity, its ideals and the tasks ahead.
(4.3) I am glad to be able to begin my statement by saying that there has recently  been a revival in businesslike contacts between the Secretariat of CMEA and Unesco on  specific individual problems and subjects which are of mutual interest for the imple-  mentation of the relevant programmes of Unesco's Medium-Term Plan. Our organization is  ready to continue to share the experience it has built up regarding the formulation of  science policy, the organization and implementation of multilateral co-operation on  questions of the development of science and technology, the environment, information  technology and statistics, training personnel for the developing countries in the  higher and middle educational institutions of the member countries of the Council for  Mutual Economic Assistance, using our organization's scholarship fund.
(4.4) Ladies and gentlemen, as can be seen from the documents that have been pre-  sented, the programme activity of Unesco embraces a number of pressing problems which  are of vital concern to all the countries of the world. They reflect- in the main  Unesco's ideals and the interests of all peoples. The Council for Mutual Econ.omic  Assistance shares the recommendations contained in the documents presented to this  session concerning deeper study of the causes and consequences of the arms race and of  the interconnection between peace, security and disarmament in the context of the  corresponding programmes of Unesco. We welcome the proposal on the necessity and time-  liness of organizing and holding a representative international conference to discuss  'Scientists and their responsibility for peace and disarmament' within the framework  of Major Programme IX, 'Science, technology and society'.
(4.5) The countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance hold that  science , culture and peace are indivisible. The principled and consistent policy of  the countries of the socialist community is aimed at preventing the militarization of  outer space and halting the arms race on Earth. They resolutely support the proposals  of the Soviet Union made at the talks with the United States in Geneva on nuclear arms  and the non-militarization of space.
(4.6) Halting the arms race would enable vast resources currently being spent for  military purposes to be released, and the huge scientific and technological potential  to be used for the development of the socio-economic, cultural and scientific and  technological. progress of all countries in the world.
(4.7) The countries of the socialist community are in favour of the development of  mutually advantageous and non-discriminatory scientific and technological, cultural,  trade and economic relations between all countries. Special attention is given to  economic and scientific and technological co-operation with the developing countries.  The countries belonging to the CMEA support the progressive demands of the developing  States in their fight for economic decolonialization, for full sovereignty over their  own natural and other resources, for the rapid development of their economies, culture  and education, for broad and equal participation in the solution of international and  economic problems, and against the policy of discrimination and the exodus of quali-  fied personnel.
(4.8) We have learned with great interest of the proposed resolution concerning the  establishment within the framework of Unesco of an intergovernmental informatics pro-  gramme. We consider that the implementation of this programme will enable Unesco to  play a greater role in this field of activity, will open up additional opportunities  for the gathering by Unesco of essential information, will also exert a beneficial  influence on the development of national and regional informatics programmes, and will  ensure their wider introduction into the fields of education, science, culture and  information. A significant contribution to this could also be made by the holding  under Unesco's auspices of the second intergovernmental conference on developing  national strategies in the field of informatics.
(4.9) In the recommendations of Unesco's Executive Board on the draft programme and  budget which have been presented to the present session, what is notable is the very  great importance of all the measures relating to the programe on 'The human environ-  ment and terrestrial and marine resources' and to the intergovernmental and inter-  national programes. These programmes include the International Geological Correlation  Programme and the International Hydrological Programme. The greatest contribution to  the acquisition of new knowledge and the collection of scientific data on a worldwide  basis is made, in our view, by the intergovernmental programe 'Man and the  Biosphere'.
(4.10) As can be seen from the programmes, one of the main directions of Unesco's  activity is co-operation in the development of science and technology. In that con-  nection, and in conclusion, I should like to tell you that in accordance with the  decision of the top-level economic meeting of member countries of the CMEA, we are  concluding the drawing up of an integrated programme of scientific and technological  progress of CMEA member countries for the next 15 to 20 years. The purpose of this  programme is to achieve the speediest solution, through joint efforts, of the most  important problems in the field of science and technology, and above all in the  priority areas for co-operation - electronics, integrated automation, atomic energy,  new types of materials and technologies and biotechnologies. The integrated programme  will become the new direction for the development of socialist economic integration  and for the intensification of the economic development of the fraternal countries of  the CMEA. It is a programme of peace, progress and Co-opergion with all countries.
(4.11) This will all contribute to the accelerated development and introduction of  the latest Scientific and technological advances in the CMEA countries, and will  create the necessary conditions for an expansion of co-operation with third countries,  both the developing countries and the industrially developed countries of the world.
(4.12) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, comrades, in conclusion I should like  once again to gjve an assurance that the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance will  continue to follow a course of broad international co-operation, and will develop and  strengthen businesslike contacts between the CMFA Secretariat and Unesco for more pur-  poseful use of significant and useful experience accumulated by Unesco and CMEA during  the implementation of their respective programmes of multilateral scientific and tech-  nological co-operation.
(4.13) Allow me to express the hope that the results of this session of Unesco's  General Conference will promote the improvement of mutual understanding between  peoples, peace, progress and international security, the ideals and principles of  Unesco. Thank you.
5. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Deputy Secretary of the Council for Mutual Economic Assist-  ance for his statement. I now give the floor to Ms Anna Dourtcheva, observer of  the Women's International Democratic Federation.
6.1 Ms DOURTCHEVA (Women's International Democratic Federation) :  Esteemed Mr President, honourable delegates, ladies and gentlemen, allow
507    me on behalf of the Women's International Democratic Federation to express our  thanks for being invited to participate in the work of the twenty-third session  of the Unesco General Conference and to extend our sincere wishes for a fruitful  and successful outcome of its debate.
6.2 WIDF highly appreciates the inclusion in the agenda of the Conference of  item 4.5 dealing with the status of women, and the comprehensive coverage of this  subject in the majority of the basic documents prepared for the session including  the Draft Programme and Budget for 1986-1987.
6.3 And we feel it is our duty here to pay due credit to Unesco for its  activities in pursuit of the objectives of the United Nations Decade for Women,  Equality, Development and Peace. Inasmuch as the solution of the specific prob-  lems of women is intricately related to the social, economic and cultural con-  ditions prevailing in each country, and above all to the type of socio-political  system, we highly appreciate Unesco's efforts for wider application of inter-  national instruments related to the promotion of the status of women adopted by  the General Conference at its previous sessions and those adopted by the United  Nations General Assembly - abòve all the Convention for Elimination of all Forms  of Discrimination Against Women and the Declaration on the Participation of Women  in Promoting International Peace and Co-operation.
6.4 Great achievements have been marked by Unesco concerning the development  of research relating to the status of women, the further identification of the  obstacles to the equality of men and women in society in many countries, and  practical operational activities to promote the full participation of women in  development and elucidate their role in strengthening peace.
6.5 Hailing the proposal for the proclamation by the United Nations General  Assembly of an International Literacy Year, WIDF holds in high esteem the activi-  ties of Unesco aimed at wiping out illiteracy and speeding up the social and  cultural development of the multitude of countries in Asia, Africa and Latin  America, thus making a tangible contribution to these countries' efforts to  abolish the main cause of their backwardness and mass poverty - the legacy of  colonialism - and to counteract neo-colonialist policies. One of the major pre-  requisites for the success of these efforts, however, is the efficient intro-  duction of the new international economic order.
6.6 We fully support the attempt made in the Draft Programme and. Budget to  strike a balance between actions aimed at eradicating the historically pre-  conditioned obstacles to the attainment of the equality of men and women in  society and actions designed to ensure for women an equal claim on the labour  market in the era of scientific and technological progress, through the promotion  of equal access of girls and women to scientific studies and all levels of tech-  nical and vocational education. We cannot but acknowlefige that among the most  challenging examples of an efficient approach to and successful solution of these  problems is the rich stock of experience accumulated by the socialist countries.
6.7 Mr President, WIDF, which was born out of the ashes of post-war Europe  less than two weeks after the creation of Unesco, now unites 136 national women's  organizations in 116 countries. It has from the very beginning ardently supported  the humanistic goals of this unique Organization - to contribute through the  channels of international co-operation in the field of education, science and  culture to the advance of humanity and every human being along the path of peace  and, progress.
6.8; Convinced of the significance of education as a vehicle to attack the roars of inequality, WIDF has always accorded full support for and recognition to  Unesco's efforts for the democratization of education. 'Education for all' is for  millions of women not just the lofty title of a programme but an incarnation of  their sincerest aspirations for literacy both for themselves and their children,  for free and accessible education at all levels, for education geared to the  needs of society, education conducive to peace and international understanding.  Coupled with the programmes related to other branches of science and culture, it  is promising to make man through a collective effort the master of nature. And it  is in this context that any attack on the universality of Unesco is interpreted  by WIDF and its national Organizations as an assault on the verv belief that  through international co-operation humanity may be freed from the evils of  illiteracy, mass poverty, hunger and natural calamities which have been haunting  it for centuries.
6.9 Fully convinced that international scientific co-operation, cultural  exchange and the harmonious upbringing of the young generation can only be  ensured by promoting trust between nations, by working for detente and elimin-  ating the factors that give rise to enmity and cold war, WIDF highly appreciates
14  Unesco's devotion to the cause of introduction of the new international infor-  mation order, to the elimination of prejudice, intolerance, racism and apartheid,  and in favour of peace, international understanding, respect for human rights and  the rights of peoples.
6.10 At the present point of tension in international relations, when  humanity is faced with the danger of a nuclear holocaust, made even more real by  the plans of the Reagan Administration for the militarization of outer space,  WIDF, on behalf of the millions of women in the world who cherish peace as a  major prerequisite for the attainment of equality and development, declares its  full support for the Organization, which has remained true to its constitutional  oath to abolish war in the minds of men. We hail the discussion in this hall of  Unesco's contribution to the International Year of Peace and the steps envisaged  in the draft programme and budget for study of the consequences of the arms race  and the interrelation between disarmament and educational, scientific and  cultural development. An international seminar organized by WIDF with a contri-  bution from Unesco in 1983 under the title, 'The consequences of the arms race on  the situation of women and their families' has provided ample indications of how  timely and looked for are activities of this kind.
6.11 Finally, allow me to pay due credit to one specific aspect of the  activities of Unesco which has already a long tradition and is continually gain-  ing momentum to the benefit of the efficiency of its programmes - Unesco's close  co-operation with international non-governmental organizations, both within the  framework of the Unesco Standing Committee of NGOs and with individual NGOs.
6.12 As an international women's NGO with almost global coverage, WIDF has  continued to enjoy during the period under review the rich benefits of mutual  exchange of information and consultations which has helped to carry the ideas,  objectives and activities of Unesco to the most diverse strata of the female  population in different countries, who are often beyond the reach of the National  Commissions of Unesco.
6.13 This building of confidence in the image of the Organization has taken  more practical form through Unesco's financial assistance in meeting top priority  needs of some WIDF-affiliated national organizations. This type of co-operation  is of particular importance for women's organizations in some developing  countries, where the shortcomings of governmental-level programmes for the eradi-  cation of illiteracy have forced national women's organizations to launch their  own literacy campaigns. It is also of paramount importance in some of the devel-  oping countries which have taken the path of independent development, and this  task has been embodied as one of the basic functions of the national women's  organizations in order to promote the integration of women in the process of  national reconstruction and development.
6.14 The chief advantage of this approach is the fact that literacy is taught  side by side with some professional training, and that at the same time advanced  professional training is sometimes used as a means to prevent the relapse of the  newly literates back into illiteracy, both aspects being conducive to better  employment opportunities for women.
6.15 The multiplier effect of such investments, which comes from the involve-  ment of the targeted beneficiary - women themselves, in the planning and imple-  mentation of the tasks inscribed in Unesco's programmes, encourages us to note  with appreciation the Director-General's proposal to preserve, even under the  present conditions of austerity, the level of budgetary allocations for subven-  tions to international NGOs.
6.16 Allow me to conclude by wishing full success of the discussions. at the  twenty-third session, and the adoption of inspiring action-oriented decisions.  Thank you, Mr President.
7. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the observer of the Women's International Democratic Federation.  I now give the floor to H.E. Mr Luis SimÓn Figueroa del RIO, Ambassador, Perma-  nent Delegate of Chile to Unesco, and head of the Chilean delegation.
(8.1) Mr FIGUEROA DEL RIO (Chile) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, first of all,  Mr President, I should like to express our gratitude to the Bulgarian people and  Government for their kind welcome, and our hope that the Bulgarian presidency of our  Conference will set a seal of friendly understanding on this meeting of the nations.
(8.2) The main task of our meeting is to study and approve the draft programme and  budget, which must clearly reflect the Organization's policy. In paragraph C.20 of  document 23 Cl5, the Director-General says 'neither the General Conference nor the  Executive Board, in their directives concerning the preparation of document 23 C/5,  has expressed any indication of priority regarding the major programmes'. We must  therefore make things clear now, at the stage of its examination and approval. Our  decisions as to figures and priorities must be based on recognition of the need to  strengthen multilateral relations and to reassert the importance and special nature of  Unesco's functions, and on the fact that fewer financial resources are now available.
(8.3) The subject of multilateral relations was referred to by the Director-General  in the concluding section of document 23 C/5, where he writes: 'all the indications  are that the United Nations system based on multilateral international co-operation  has reached a decisive turning-point in its history', and, further on, 'it does seem,  however, that there is no solution other than multilateral co-operation'. He goes on  to express the view that 'the raison d'stre of Unesco, as of the United Nations system  as a whole, needs to be asserted yet again' and concludes, still in the same document,  'surely the time has come to examine the causes of present deadlocks with honesty and  courage, and dispel misunderstandings, so as to rebuild the bases of sincere and wide-  spread respect for the principles of multilateral co-operation and ideals on which it  is based'.
(8.4) We share these views of the Director-General. The multilateral system has  clearly been weakened, in Unesco in particular, as has also been acknowledged by  several speakers before me. As the multilateral system was created to promote the  cause of peace, the decisions we take at this Conference will be of the utmost import-  ance. If we are successful in dealing with Unesco's problems, we shall have made a  useful contribution to the multilateral system, and hence to the attainment of its  essential objectives.
(8.5) As the ultimate aim is peace among nations, multilateral relations must pro-  duce, foster and be generally conducive to effective international rapprochement. In  other words, international intergovernmental organizations, which reflect and underpin  multilateral relations, must encourage whatever activities will bring the nations  together and strengthen their ties. If, on the other hand, they undertake or tolerate  activities which alienate and set the nations at odds, then multilateral relations are  not performing their proper function, the community of nations is weakened, the inter-  national bodies themselves lose their credibility, and their raison d'être is called  into question. The cause of rapprochement is not furthered by rhetoric. Talk of soli-  darity is of no use if it is a cover for aggressive intentions. Moreover, there can be  no doubt that centres of power, both great and small, are resolute in defending or  expanding their own spheres of influence. International organizations can bring the  nations closer together if they choose, as they can, to concentrate their attention on  activities on which people already have a strong desire to work together. It is quite  an achievement for representatives of so many different ideologies, interests and  cultures to have come together to engage in a shared task. Why spoil it with proposals  that break that spell?
(8.6) Justice, the eradication of poverty, the attainment of living together in a  caring community: all these are shared goals; but we all have our own ways of looking  at and organizing society. Multilateral co-operation comes to an end when the Member  States of an international organization tear apart the delicate protective covering of  respect for these lofty approaches to life and impose as universal something which is  not accepted as such.
(8.7) Spcial care must be taken in the case of Unesco, for we know that the instru-  ments it uses to achieve its objective of peace - education, science and culture - can
513    give rise to conflicting views. At the present stage in multilateral relations, a very  balanced approach is called for, one in which there is no room for aggressiveness. Any  other approach makes communication impossible and at the same time puts an end to  multilateral co-operation. Fear of nuclear war is not enough to sustain international  unity in the long term. Multilateral relations notwithstanding, local wars and terror-  ism have proliferated in some parts of the world since 1945, even leading in some  cases to genocide, and, what is even more serious, it is not acknowledged that multi-  lateral co-operation is doing anything to change this state of affairs.
(8.8) It is noticeable that the so-called crisis in multilateral co-operation is  due to the fact that the situation I have just described and the nature of certain  topics give rise to doubts regarding the potential and the objectivity of inter-  national bodies. This, in turns tends to push into the background the good work that  has been done by these bodies. For in areas where there is a clear willingness to work  together there are innumerable examples of understanding and solidarity, and Unesco  has much to be proud of in such fields.
(8.9) The remedy does not lie in making fiery speeches but in humbly accepting  these facts and allowing them to guide efforts to broaden and consolidate multilateral  co-operation. Let there be no doubt about it, the General Conference can quite easily  refuse to face these facts, and the debates can avoid the issue in brilliant pyro-  technics, but in that case we should refrain from bewailing the subsequent emergence  of other forms of collaboration to replace multilateral co-operation.
(8.10) The Specialized Agencies of the United Nations system bear a very specific  responsibility in this respect. They can strengthen the links among the States and the  links between the States and the agency by dedicating themselves to the achievement of  their own specific objectives, while taking care not to discriminate between the  nations and resolutely avoiding anything that offends their sovereignty, their indi.-  viduality or their freedom. The specific objectives of each organization must be seen  within the context of the United Nations. The universality of the terns of reference  of the General Assembly restricts the breadth of the terms of reference of the other  organizations. Given the scope of the ideas and values suggested by the words culture,  science and education, Unesco must be especially vigilant not to be carried away by  these into areas which do not belong within its mandate.
(8.11) Let us, therefore, concentrate our attention on programmes which have been  successful, because, in addition to the intellectual and material benefits they  bestow, they encourage understanding among the nations and enhance the prestige of  international organizations as such. Without drawing attention away from other,  equally important issues, I should like to stress particularlv a type of activity  already undertaken by Unesco which deserves the greatest possible interest and  support. i mean the major programmes on the sciences, and especially the development  of the natural sciences. In the first place, they make an outstanding contribution to  human welfare, their validity does not depend on any political ideology and the uni-  versality of the scientific method encourages understanding and makes a positive con-  tribution to international relations.
(8.12) In the second place, it is clear that any country wishing to play an inter-  national role must henceforward make use of the most modern methods, systems and  equipment in the production of goods and the provision of services. Countries which  fail to do this, and which do not train personnel with the ability to understand,  apply and adapt scientific progress, will take a very long time to catch up with the  others.
(8.13) In the third place, it must be borne in mind that the changes produced by  science and technology are irreversible. One of their many consequences is the  impossibility of substantially reducing unemployment through industry; we all know  that industry is employing fewer and fewer workers and, as we have already said, the  deliberate disruption of trade condemns a country to remain backward indefinitely.  This example alone demonstrates the need for Unesco to take the lead in studying these  matters. We all know that this would at least give rise to recommendations in the edu-  cational field. Multilateral co-operation through Unesco should be judicious and  foward-looking, being clear-sighted when this is most necessary. When social phenomena  find their true course there will be no need for international organizations any more,  for social and economic activities acquire their own dynamics. International bodies  must pay careful attention to this situation and give the right advice, so that these  activities can take a calm and constructive course in the right direction. Such  measures would being the nations together, rather than dividing them; what is more, we  are in urgent need of them.
(8.14) To return to the line of thought that I was pursuing a moment ago, Chile,  which has maritime and fisheries resources with great potential, as well as mineral  deposits in its continental shelf up to 200 miles out to sea and in submarine oceanic  ridges up to 350 sea miles into the Pacific Ocean, feels it must draw attention to the
14  important scientific work being carried out by Unesco's Intergovernmental Oceano-  graphic Commission through its programmes supporting the Permanent Commission for the  South Pacific, a body whose members in addition to Chile are its sister States in  South America: Peru, Colombia and Ecuador. The Chilean Government lends this Com-  mission special support in its work, and hopes that its importance will be reflected  in the budgeting and financing of its projects. Nor can we refrain from mentioning the  important role devolving on this Commission in respect of the new ocean regime that  was defiried in the Convention on the Law of the Sea.
(8.15) We also believe that literacy activities should be given high priority, so  that, as other delegates have said, illiteracy may soon become a thing of the past  throughout the world.
(8.16) The decision to decentralize must also be reflected in the programme and  budget, while, of course, activities which are recognized as successful must be empha-  sized and expanded. One of the activities to which we attach the utmost importance is  the Major Project i n  the Field of Education in Latin America and the Caribbean, in  which the relevant Regional Office has played a key role. This major project has  attracted the attention and collaboration of those in the region who have responsi-  bility in this field, and is a good example of multilateral co-operation. We must also  single out the regional networks for biological sciences and those for biotechnology  and the chemical sciences, which are now at the planning stage. When we speak of re-  inforcing these programmes it should be borne in mind that the Latin America and  Caribbean region registered a decrease in the resources allocated to it under the last  budget.
(8.17) My country likewise considers that Unesco should concentrate on fewer and  more significant subjects for reflection and exchanges of views, in order to achieve  more effective results in its spheres of activity. The Organization's 40 years of  accumulated experience show that by avoiding dispersal and being prepared to follow up  its ideas, it has been able to contribute to human progress. Evidence of this is seen  in the incalculable benefits that have resulted from the World Conference on Cultural  Policies held in Venice in 1970 and from the subsequent regional conferences held on  the same subject in 1972, 1973, 1975, 1978 and 1982. These conferences have outlined  and disseminated a broader concept of culture, encompassing the ideas of cultural  identity and the cultural dimension of development. In exactly the same measure as  more reflection and exchanges of views are devoted to this fascinating subject, and as  the key ideas on which the enhancement of culture is based are expanded and system-  atized, so culture should become the integrating factor par excellence, at both  national and international levels.
(8.18) Today, thanks in large measure to Unesco, culture is seen as a dynamic and  unifying factor both for the nation and for the individual, consisting both of  material goods and of values which can be handed down from one generation to the next  and which constitute a cultural heritage; and of creative, everyday activities whereby  humanity can modify, enrich or damage that heritage. Thus Unesco has made an outstand-  ing contribution to the development of humanity, by placing in the hands of every  nation on earth an instrument that it is free to use if it wishes, without imposing  any conditions that might be contrary to its national dignity and sovereignty. This is  the kind of activity on which the Member States of the Orgapization should concentrate  in order to enable the Organization to justify its existence and to continue to exist  in the future, as it certainly must.
(8.19) I shall refrain from giving all the obvious advice suggested by the reduction  in Unesco's financial resources, such as curtailing programmes and constantly seeking  improvements in efficiency, because we wish to emphasize that Unesco's economic diffi-  culties must not be confused with the real nature of its problems. If we are mistaken  in our definition of the nature of these problems, we are sure to be regaled with  recriminations against countries which withdraw their membrship, but we shall not be  doing anything to strengthen multilateral co-operation.
(8.20) So far, I have tried to describe the method that I suggest Unesco should  adopt in order to contribute to multilateral co-operation. However, I believe that, if  we are to find the solutions we seek, we must review the institutions and organs  involved. All types of organization need, every so often, to reshape their internal  structure and adjust it to changes in circumstances. It has been recognized here that,  despite the dedication and good intentions of its members, the Executive Board has not  been able to establish the guidelines needed to begin to restore Unesco once more to a  position of strength. And we are aware that the previous session of the General Con-  ference also failed to do this.
(8.21) I believe that this session of the General Conference could provide grounds  for hope if it were to decide to consider a change in internal structure. It should,  for example, contemplate constant participation by permanent delegates, greater  regional activity, and the establishment of a very small group of persons of great  wisdom and knowledge who would set an example and illuminate leading ideas in Unesco's
515    spheres of competence at central and regional levels. A procedure should also be  envidaged to rule out the discussion of subjects which do not fall within the sphere  of competence of a Specialized Agency.
(8.22) Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, I have stated my  conviction of the need to contribute to the multilateral system by concentrating  Unesco's activity on subjects that strengthen the community spirit. We have made our  priorities clear, and have also pointed to the need to study the Organization's  internal restructuring. Before I conclude, I should like to draw attention to the need  always to bear in mind resolution 13, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly  at its thirty-ninth session, which reaffirms 'the inalienable right of all peoples to  determine their own form of government and to chose their own economic, political and  social system free from outside intervention, subversion, coercion or constraint of  any kind whatsoever'.
(8.23) Finally, I am moved by the repeated and justified references to peace made at  this gathering, and by the wish to encourage further work to that end, to recall the  Treaty of Peace and Friendship signed by Argentina and Chile on 29 November 1984. His  Holiness Pope John Paul II, with the collaboration of Cardinal Samore, was the insti-  gator of the treaty. The mediation of His Holiness the Pope, offered with wisdom and  affection, is one further demonstration that understanding between nations is always  possible. Thank you, Mr President.
9. The PRESIDENT:  wishes at this stage to make a statement, and I give him the floor.  I thank the head of the delegation of Chile. The Director-General  WORLD FOOD DAY  JOURNEE MONDIALE DE L'ALIMENTATION  DIA MUNDIAL DE LA ALIMENTACION  MEXJlYHAPOLIHbIn DEHb IIPOLIOBOJIbCTBWR  VPJkJI .&U91 p4.'  *-%a% El
10.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais profit.er de l'occa-  sion qu'offre cette séance plénière de la Conférence générale pour appeler  l'attention des délégués à cette vingt-troisième session de la Conférence géné-  rale sur le fait que le système des Nations Unies célèbre aujourd'hui, 16 oc-  tobre, la Journée mondiale de l'alimentation. Cette Journée mondiale, établie  lors de la Conférence biennale de la FAO en 1979, a été célébrée pour la première  fois en 1981. Elle contribue depuis lors à renforcer la prise de conscience des  problèmes posés par la faim dans le monde et à encourager les actions visant à  lutter contre la faim et la pauvreté. Les thèmes choisis pour la Journée mondiale  de l'alimentation sont cette année les suivants : la pauvreté rurale, la fores-  terie et la sécurité alimentaire, l'alimentation et l'environnement. La pêche et  les communautés de pêcheurs seront les thèmes qui seront évoqués au cours de  l'année prochaine.
10.2 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, la célébra-  tion de la Journée mondiale de l'alimentation prend cette année un relief par-  ticulièrement dramatique étant donné la famine et la crise alimentaire qui ont  régné ou qui règnent encore dans certaines parties de l'Afrique et la malnu-  trition qui sévit dans de nombreux pays et qui affecte tant d'enfants, diminuant  ainsi leur capacité d'apprendre à un âge où il devraient pouvoir jouir du droit à  l'éducation. Les Etats membres organisent au cours de cette Journée diverses  activités destinées à attirer l'attention de tous sur les problèmes de la faim et  de la malnutrition. L'Unesco coopère très étroitement, dans les domaines de sa  compétence, avec la FAO et les autres organisations du système des Nations Unies  pour faire de la question de la faim et de la malnutrition une préoccupation  fondamentale de la communauté internationale. J'ajouterai que notre Organisation  agit dans différents domaines de sa compétence et en particulier dans le cadre  des grands programmes internationaux et intergouvernementaux scientifiques.
10.3 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais pour terminer, puisqu'il est présent  à cette session de la Conférence générale pour la première fois, souligner  l'action inlassable que mène, depuis longtemps, M. l'Ambassadeur Yannis  Coutsocheras, délégué permanent de Grèce, en faveur de l'alimentation des  enfants. L'action de M. Coutsocheras a aboutit notamment à l'adoption par
14  l'Assemblée parlementaire du Conseil de l'Europe, en octobre 1984, d'une  résolution exprimant le souhait que, pour protéger la vie de tous les enfants,  certaines nourritures de base soient déclarées hors commerce et distribuées  gratuitement aux enfants. L'entrée dans les faits d'une telle résolution  permettrait de sauver beaucoup de vies humaines, parmi les enfants notamment. Je  vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
11.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Director-General. It is indeed sad, when there are moun-  tains of food grains in certain parts of the world, that hunger still grips large  populations in Africa and elsewhere.
11.2 At the same time, it is heartening to note that Unesco is also co-  operating with other organizations in their effort to relieve the people who are  suffering and to give relief to those who are hungry: this is, I think, highly  important and of great significance.
11.3 Greece has asked for the floor and I have the pleasure in calling on  H.E. Mr Coutsocheras, the permanent delegate of Greece.
12. M. COUTSOCHERAS (Grèce) :  Merci aussi de la part des enfants. Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs, notre voix est un appel mondial. C'est  comme un S.O.S. lancé à tous afin que le problème de l'alimentation soit envisagé  globalement. C'est la voix aussi de millions d'enfants affamés et sous-alimentés.  Je vous remercie encore une fois, Monsieur le Président, mes chers collègues et  vous aussi Monsieur le Directeur général. Merci de tout coeur.
13. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Greece. The next speaker on the  list is Mr Mohi Ed Dine Saber, Director-General of the Arab Educational, Cultural  and Scientific Organization, and I give him the floor.  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  DEBATE D E  POLITICA GENERAL (continuación)  OBCYmEHAE BOIIPOCOB OBIIIER IIOJïMTMKM (npononxeHxe)  ( aolell 'LUI 6y9L  ,&&%%i& ( $g )
(14.1) Mr SABER (Arab League Educational, Culture and Scientific Organization -  ALECSO) (Translation from the Arabic) :  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,  Mr Director-General of Unesco, distinguished delegates, on this important inter-  national occasion, I would like to join those who have spoken before me in congrat-  ulating Mr Nikolai Todorov on the well-deserved sign of confidence in him that the  General Conference of Unesco has shown by unanimously electing him President of its  twenty-third session. His election was an auspicious beginning for this Conference,  which will take up issues of major international importance affecting every aspect of  human civilization, including training, development and protection; for Mr Todorov is  noted for his great competence and experience in international affairs and has an  intimate familiarity with Unesco issues. Thanks to his special qualities, he is bound  to lead the Conference to success. I would also like to take advantage of this oppor-  tunity to thank the President, Government and people of the Republic of Bulgaria for  generously hosting this important Conference and providing all the preparatory work,  organization, contacts and facilities needed for its success. Thanks are also due to  Dr Said Tell, the President of the twenty-second session of the General Conference of  Unesco, for his clear-sighted efforts and good work of the past two years, which has  been one of the most difficult periods in the history of this distinguished inter-  national Organization. His broad perspective, deep experience and spirit of creative  collaboration have contributed to the solution of many problems. As we now proceed to  consider the solid and meticulously detailed documents which have been prepared by the  Executive Board and the Unesco Secretariat and which make up the draft programme and  budget submitted to the General Conference, I would like to extend my whole-hearted  thanks to Mr Patrick Seddoh, Chairman of the Executive Board, a man of wide experience  and unstinted dedication, under whose judicious leadership this major work was accom-  plished by the members of the Executive Board, to whom thanks are also due for the  careful way in which, in keeping with the admirable traditions of that distinguished  body, they examined the subjects dealt with in these documents. In addition to prepar-  ing the draft programme, the Board has dealt intelligently, meticulously and respon-  sibly with the special problems that have confronted Unesco in the wake of the with-  drawal of a major State from the Organization and with the consequences for Unesco's  work and mission of all the events that have preceded, accompanied and followed that  withdrawal. In this regard, I would like to express the great esteem of the Arab  League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization for the distinguished  Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, thanks to whose wise leadership, responsi-  bility, courage, and boundless faith in the principles, humane mission and universal  character of Unesco and in the United Nations system, the Organization has been able  to win through to safety. I would also like to express our appreciation of the good  work done by his assistants in the Secretariat.
(14.2) We would like to declare our total support for the responsible position of  Unesco and that of its Director-General, and we object strongly to the unfair  publicity campaigns that have been directed against it as it has carried out its duty.  The Executive Board of the Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organiz-  ation has passed resolutions expressing support for Unesco from the very beginning of  the so-called Unesco crisis. It has followed closely the development of that situ-  ation, as it is anxious to affirm the universality of the Organization and to preserve  the United Nations system and the noble principles on the basis of which Unesco was  established: the protection of human life and culture and, more particularly, the  preservation of world peace, the attainment of international understanding and the  elevation of the material and spiritual standards of humanity. We have followed very  carefully the major steps which Unesco has taken in a brief time to improve its  methods of work, execute its programme and reform its administrative structures.  Periodic reviews such as this are normal in the life of any organization, particularly  an established international organization such as Unesco, which is involved with a  variety of international issues and a variety of administrative and political systems.  The speed with which these reforms have been carried out calls for commendation of the  Chairman and members of the Executive Board of Unesco, the Organization's Secretariat,  and its Director-General and his assistants.
(14.3) Mr President, the strong and growing co-operation between Unesco and the Arab  League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization is a positive experiment in  international collaboration between a global and a regional organization. This CO-  operation has taken the form of joint activities between a specialized Arab organiz-  ation of the League of Arab States and an organization of the United Nations system.  Co-operation between Unesco and ALECSO has almost reached the stage of the integration  of their specialized activities in the Arab region, including planning, execution and  follow-up through the exchange of information and experience based on principles and  criteria defined in the joint co-operation agreement between them. We know that this  joint action approach is important in meeting the needs of the region. We also know  that it fosters a high level of technical, economic and administrative performance in  programme execution.
(14.4) In addition to co-operating with Unesco, ALECSO also co-operates with Arab  organizations active in its spheres of activity: it undertakes joint programmes with  the Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States and joint projects with the Islamic
14  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and the Organization of African  Unity. ALECSO carries out an integrated programme of activities that is based on a  long-term plan, divided into three medium-term plans, whose objectives are derived  from a comprehensive view of the Organization's long-term activities, its sectoral  strategies in its fields of competence, the needs of Member States and the guidelines  laid down by its General Conference and Executive Board. The Arab Education Strategy  was established by our Organization seven years ago, as was the Arab Literacy and  Adult Education Strategy. The Arab Cultural Strategy will be put before the General  Conference at its next session in December of this year. The preparation of the  Science and Technology Strategy is well under way.
(14.5) The activities of the Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organ-  ization cover all fields of education, including pre-school education, basic education  and technical and vocational education, educational research, higher and university  education and, more particularly, teacher training and the wider use of Arabic as the  language of university instruction and the working languages of scientific research  centres. The Organization is also active in special education, the care and training  of disabled persons and the training of their teachers. In addition, the Organization  is active in the teaching of the sciences at all levels through the preparation of  experimental textbooks and the Arabization of scientific terminology. It is also  engaged in combating desertification and the establishment of green belts around Arab  desert areas as well as the development of marine life, the struggle against pollution  and groundwater development. The Organization is also involved in cultural activities,  including the arts, literature and translation, and the preservation of towns and of  Arab and Islamic antiquities.
(14.6) Mr President, my purpose in mentioning some of the major aspects of the  activities of our Organization is to show how the work of the international organiz-  ation, Unesco, complements that of the Arab organization. ALECSO, and to point out the  importance of close co-operation between them for joint action in our region. It is  also to point out the importance of regional experiments in certain fields. 1 would  like at this point to concentrate on one important issue in particular - a serious  world problem which is becoming more dangerous ever year: I refer to the problem of  illiteracy. ALECSO adopted its literacy strategy after making a comprehensive evalu-  ation of literacy experiments all over the world and after considering conditions in  the Arab world, which are similar to those which prevail in other parts of the Third  World. It treats the problem of illiteracy as a simple teaching problem, certainly,  but one that reflects backwardness among individuals. Personal illiteracy is related  to the illiteracy of society itself, which is manifested in social and economic under-  development. Their macroilliteracy is social backwardness, and it is this cultural  form of illiteracy that gives rise to microilliteracy - the individual inability to  read and write. Illiteracy must be dealt with on a comprehensive basis in the context  of social and economic development. This integrated concept of literacy calls for a  change in the way that illiteracy is combated. The struggle must be conducted by means  of an integrated pogramme based on a comprehensive national compulsory literacy  campaign that includes whatever action is required for expanding the scope of adult  education and its integration with general education in a process of convergence and  intersection, accompanied by an effort to complete the process of compulsory basic  education. In the Arab region, the Arab people in Democratic Yemen, for example, have  achieved full literacy through a comprehensive literacy campaign, and Iraq is on the  verge of completing a campaign of its own. Many other Arab countries have established  comprehensive literacy plans. These plans have given traditional literacy activities a  'voluntary' dimension and have avoided the negative aspects of the past. The Arab  experiment may offer a useful guide to dealing with this problem in other developing  countries - a subject which Unesco may wish to look into.
(14.7) Mr President, we welcome the draft programme and budget that has been sub-  mitted to the Conference, even though it is marked by the impact of the withdrawal of  the United States of America from Unesco. We trust that that country's absence will  not be prolonged. The Director-General and the Executive Board, in their wisdom and  competence, have succeeded, despite all difficulties, in preserving the substance of  the Medium-Term Plan, which sets forth the general framework of Unesco's programmes.  In supporting this draft programme and budget, we are expressing confidence that your  Conference will adopt it in accordance with the recommendations of the Executive  Board, which were the subject of consensus. Any departure from that consensus opens  the door to a process of competitive bidding and diminishes the credibility of the  Executive Board, the major organ of the General Conference. This international Organ-  ization must be allowed to continue to discharge that primary cultural function which  it has performed for the past 40 years with great ability and resourcefulness.
(14.8) Mr President, we live in a complex materialistic culture in which technology  has eclipsed the higher values that make life meaningful in human terms. The imbalance  between technological and moral progress underlies the contradictions besetting man-  kind, which have led us all to the edge of the abyss. Technology is a great human  achievement, created by man for his own good. We do not condemn technology. Rather, we  ask for the development of moral standards for technology that will prevent it from
521    exercising mastery over man and from becoming a means of tyranny and exploitation,  domination of the weak by the strong, and various forms of unacceptable, atavistic,  behaviour such as racism, apartheid and the exploitation and enslavement of peoples.
(14.9) Accordingly, we condemn all those phenomena which demean man. We condemn the  barbaric apartheid policy of South Africa; and we protest against the racial minority  government's suppression of the freedom of the struggling people of Namibia and its  refusal to put into effect the decisions of the United Nations.
(14.10) We also condemn Israel's savage behaviour in occupied Palestine, its occu-  pation of the sacred city of Jerusalem and its continuing aggression, involving the  use of every possible means to efface and deface the authentic character of that city.  We condemn Israel's terrorism against Arab educational institutions, which it seizes  and closes, the persecution of teachers and students and the distortions of history  that it introduces into the curricula of Arab schools. We condemn, in the name of the  world's conscience, its barbaric and unscrupulous attack carried out in broad daylight  against Tunisia, an independent Member State of the United Nations, the bombardment of  its civilian population and the massacre of innocent people, including children and  old people. Such activities have become routine for Israel, which carries them out in  contempt of world opinion and in defiance of international law.
(14.11) We also call for an end to the continuing war between the neighbouring States  of Iraq and Iran so as to spare the lives of innocent people and the resources which  should be used for construction and development. We endorse the appeal in this regard  issued by the Executive Board of Unesco at its 121st session, particularly since Iraq  has more than once indeed, on every possible occasion, expressed its readiness to end  the war and restore peace. Peace remains the only hope for the survival, progress and  prosperity of mankind. Mr President, I wish your Conference the success which it  deserves and I thank you for your attention. May God's peace and blessings be upon  you.
15. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Director-General of the Arab Educational, Cultural and  Scientific organization for his statement, and I now give the floor to  H.R. Mr Henry George, Minister of Education and Sports and head of the delegation  of the Commonwealth of Dominica.
16.1 Mr GEORGE (Dominica) :  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, Mr President, I wish on behalf of  the Dominica delegation and on my own behalf to offer my sincere congratulations  to the President of the General Conference on his election to the presidency of  this twenty-third session of the General Conference and on the wisdom and  patience exhibited in his conduct of this eminent debate.
16.2 May I take this opportunity to express the appreciation of my delegation  for the warm hospitality of the Government and people of ßulgaria. Permit me  also to convey to the Director-General special greetings from my government; and  to the General Conference at large I take pleasure in extending warmest greetings  from the Government and people of the Commonwealth of Dominica.
16.3 From the outset, the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica wishes  to reaffirm its commitment to the ideals and goals of Unesco. Mr President, it  would seem that Unesco is now at a crossroads in its history. This year, we  celebrate the fortieth anniversary of the Organization. This anniversary, and  indeed this particular conference, falls at a most critical time in Unesco's  history. Perhaps at this time, Mr President, Unesco is entitled to pause for  reflection. Any organization after forty years needs to review its activities  and to adjust its structure as well as its contents in order to reflect the many  changes that inevitably occur with time. In this respect, we have noted the  efforts made by the Temporary Committee of the Executive Board to deal with the  problems of adjustment and we fully support the consensus arrived at, which was  endorsed by the Executive Board.
16.4 We congratulate the Director-General on the presentation of the draft  programme and budget because of the obvious work and thought that has gone into  its preparation. The document reflects the wisdom and diligence which the  Director-General consistently demonstrates in the management of the affairs of  the Organization. We reaffirm our strong support for the Director-General per-  sonally and for the Organization.
16.5 Mr President, Unesco has much to its credit. At this time we believe  that Member States need to make a genuine effort to build on the Organization's  strengths. The world needs a Unesco; we have no doubts about that. My country  intends to play its full part in the Organization's process of renewal.
16.6 Mr President, the Draft Programme and Budget for 1986-1987 covering the  second biennial period of the Second Medium-Term Plan approved by the General  Conference at its fourth extraordinary session accords well with the lines of  emphasis of the Medium-Term Plan. Document 23 C/5 is an innovation in itself.  Its thrust towards clarity in identifying priorities within each major programme  is a demonstration of the Organization's willingness to respond to the concerns  which Member States consider most relevant.
16.7 Mr President, the new programmes in document 23 C/5 enjoy our full  support. We refer especially to the innovations of Major Programme II - for  example, Subprogramme 11.3.1, 'Promotion of adult education'. We also note with  approval Major Programme XII, 'The elimination of prejudice, intolerance, racism  and apartheid'. The programme attempts to research the positive rather than the  negative. My government applauds this latter programme as an expression of our  solidarity with the oppressed peoples of South Africa and our firm condemnation  of the inhumane and dreadful system of apartheid.
16.8 What we wish to commend very specially in document 23 C/5, Mr President,  is the emphasis given to action-oriented activities. There seems an obvious  slant towards programmes which lend themselves to practical action from which may  be derived definite results which could have an impact on policy and programme  reform in our countries.
16.9 Mr President, we note with approval the balance achieved between reflec-  tion and action in document 23 C/S, which has given emphasis to practical activi-  ties of concern to Member States, and at the same time has maintained the devel-  opment of important research activities. We appreciate the part that these  studies play in providing direction for projects in our respective countries.
16.10 Mr President, we welcome the priority given in most of the programmes to  training activities, because for developing countries especially the dearth of  trained persons in their populations is an obstacle to development.
16.11 We wholeheartedly support, Mr President, the continued emphasis in docu-  ment 23 c/S on cultural activities. Cultural identity is crucial to the develop-  ment of any society. Major Programme XI, 'Culture and the future', makes com-  mendable attempts at fostering cultural identity. Not only this, but it also  seeks to assist Member States in the important task of preserving their cultural  heritage and generally in developing and enriching their cultures. Dominica  looks forward to the World Decade for Cultural Development.
16.12 Mr President, my delegation welcomes the special priority status  accorded to Programme V.2, 'Teaching of science and technology'. Projects in  this area are crucial to our development. In Major Programmes V and VI, which  relate to the teaching of science and the application of science to development,  there is evidence of careful planing. We also welcome the provision for  strengthening national infrastructures and implementing science and technology  teaching projects in the Caribbean.
16.13 Activities in Major Programme VI - for example, ipformatics - give scope  for the strengthening of fragile economies like ours and those of most Third  World countries. The programme is well placed because it makes room for the con-  tinuous valuable research activities undertaken primarily by our more developed  Member States. The programme also demonstrates the Organization's ceaseless  efforts to provide opportunities for the discovery of scientific theories and the  exchange and dissemination of these theories. Unésco's emphasis on science and  technology cannot be made at a more appropriate time, Mr President. It is  through scientific discoveries that the world finds answers to the increasing  problems of hunger and disease. These discoveries assist us in our problems of  hunger, because they give insights into increasing our food producton, finding  new sources of revenue and making optimum use of existing resources. They assist  us in our problems of disease, as they offer us solutions through which we can  free our populations from the scourge of diverse diseases. Mr President, we  would have liked to see more substantial allocations made to some important  activities in the field of science - for example, the activities planned in the  area of strengthening national research and training infrastructures in tech-  nology and the engineering sciences. We feel that these activities have a  catalytic role in development in several Member States, and warranted greater  priority in the budgetary allocations. For the same reason, we would also have  liked to see first priority status accorded to the development of low-cost equip-  ment and materials for science teaching.
16.14 Mr President, my delegation fully supports Major Programmes II, IV and  V. More specifically, we welcome the substantial increase in the financial  resources allocated to the stimulation of innovative ideas for the training of  educational personnel, and the expansion and improvement of technical, vocational
523    and agricultural education. Dominica is essentially an agricultural and rural  country. We bannot do otherwise but place great importance on this type of edu-  cation. Since the last session of the Conference, Mr President, the Eastern  Caribbean States have made tremendous efforts , thanks to the assistance of  Unesco, in the development of technical, vocational and agricultural education.  The Major Project in Education in Latin America and the Caribbean was based on  the premise that the rural and marginal areas in our region should be developed  without estrangement of the youth from their socio-cultural roots. The expansion  of our technical, vocational and agricultural education hinges on this premise.  We feel strongly the need for continued efforts towards the development of adult  education, the elimination of illiteracy and the improvement of primary education  SO as to create the necessary conditions for rural development. Our effort in  this area have been relentless, and we really welcome Unesco's seemingly relent-  less efforts in this area, as evidenced by their work in the last biennium in  several Member States, and the practical and useful activities delineated in the
23 Cl5 on primary and adult education and literacy.
16.15 Mr President, we have achieved universal primary and junior secondary  education in Dominica, and hope by 1990 to have a fully functionally literate  population. We are therefore very pleased to note Unesco's continued and  increased attention to education.
16.16 We wish to place on record here, Mr President, our appreciation of  CARNEID's assistance in improving the quality of our education. CARNEID has been  in the forefront of educational reform in the Caribbean. As we continue to  reform our education systems so as to make them more suited to regional and  national needs and aspirations, CARNEID has consistently assisted in the clarifi-  cation, implementation, and dissemination of our innovative ideas. We wish to  affirm again our full support for CARNEID which we regard as pivotal to our  development in the field of education.
16.17 Mr President, we wish to report our emphatic support for the policy of  decentralization. We appreciate the measures so far taken by the Director-  General to equip the Caribbean Office with sectoral advisers. We hope that it  will be possible for a cultural adviser to be attached to the Caribbean Office  soon and for the post of Science and Technology Adviser to be made permanent as  recommended by CASTALAC II and the Port-of-Spain meeting of Caribbean Ministers  in August and September of this year. What is important, however, Mr President,  is that resources to enable the advisers to operate effectively should be identi-  fied and decentralized directly to the Caribbean Office. If decentralization  means anything, it means the management of activities in the areas where these  activities take place. It this is not the case, then the whole policy of decen-  tralization would be defeated. We feel strongly that the management of activi-  ties taking place in the Caribbean should be centred in the Unesco Office in the  Caribbean, and that an adequate proportion of the resources identified for the  activities in the region as a whole should be allocated for the Caribbean and  transferred directly to the Unesco Caribbean Office. The Unesco Office is  already an intersectoral office. We would like this Office to become a fully  integrated one and for it to be upgraded to reflect its level of responsib.ility  and its functions which surpass those of a normal representative's office.
16.18 Finally, Mr President, I wish to express my delegation's concern about  Caribbean underrepresentation in the elected organ of Unesco. The Caribbean  Member States in 1982 formed a subgroup in order to promote more effective par-  ticipation of the Caribbean countries in the work and activities of the Organiz-  ation. Following the formation of this subgroup, the Caribbean sought adequate  representation on the Executive Board of Unesco, but without success. Mr Presi-  dent, we would like to draw the General Conference's attention again to para-  graph 2 of Article V.A of the Constitution which stipulates that in electing the  members of the Executive Board the General Conference shall endeavour in the  selection of persons to also have reqard to the diversity of cultures and a  balanced geographical distribution. It is only just that there should be regard  for the distinct cultural identity of the Caribbean. Besides, the Caribbean  represents more than one third of the number of countries in the Latin American/  Caribbean group. The presence, Mr President, of thirteen Caribbean Member States  in the group entitles the Caribbean to at least three seats on the Board. In the  elections to the Executive Board on Saturday, the Caribbean will present two  candidates. These two Caribbean candidates have been adopted by the Latin  American and Caribbean group, together with four other Latin American candidates.  We are asking for the support of the Conference for our two Caribbean candidates  from Trinidad and Tobago and Antigua and Barbuda who have been approved by the  group, as supporting them would make for an equitable distribution of seats.  Mr President, it is imperative that the Caribbean is adequately represented in  the elected organ of the Organization if it is to participate fully in the  activities of Unesco, and take full advantage of its membership.
16.19 Mr President, my delegation congratulates the Director-General and the  Secretariat on the preparation of document 23 C/5, which we regard as a task  excellently carried out. We offer our full support in the implementation of the  amended programme. I thank you? Mr President.
17.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Dominica for his statement.
17.2 I give the floor to H.E. Mrs Ligia Costa, Minister of Education and  Culture, and the head of the delegation of Sao Tome and Principe.
18.1 Mme COSTA (Sao Tomé-et-Principe) (Discours prononcé en portugais, texte  français fourni par la délégation) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Directeur  général, honorables chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués,  permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, d'exprimer mes plus chaleureuses félici-  tations au Président M. Todorov, qui a été élu à l'unanimité pour diriger les  travaux de cette vingt-troisième session de notre Organisation. Ma conviction est  que, sous sa sage orientation, nos débats qui se déroulent dans une période si  controversée de notre Organisation, se solderont par les résultats souhaités.
18.2 Je voudrais également féliciter le Directeur général, M. Amadou-Mahtar  M'Bow, pour le dynamisme, l'intelligence et la clairvoyance dont il a fait preuve  dans son rapport ainsi que pour son dévouement aux idéaux proclamés dans l'Acte  constitutif de l'Unesco, toutes qualités indispensables à l'exécution du pro-  gramme et à la démocratisation de la vie interne et internationale de notre  Organisation dans les divers domaines de son ressort.
18.3 Je tiens également à remercier vivement le peuple et le gouvernement de  la République populaire de Bulgarie pour leur hospitalité ainsi qu'à saluer tous  les délégués à la vingt-troisième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco.
18.4 Monsieur le Président, pour nous Etats membres, les conséquences catas-  trophiques de la crise économique mondiale sur les nations les moins avancées ne  nous sont pas étrangères et nous subissons leurs répercussions qui, par vagues  successives, atteignent tous les secteurs d'activité nationale avec une plus  grande incidence sur les secteurs sociaux, en freinant le développement.
18.5 Sa0 Tomé-et-Principe, petit pays sous-développé ayant accédé à l'indé-  pendance il y a dix ans et ayant hérité d'une structure économique très vulné-  rable basée sur la monoculture du cacao et tournée exclusivement vers l'expor-  tation, a été, ces dernières années, frappé de plein fouet par la crise écono-  mique et par la sécheresse qui sévit en Afrique, de sorte qu'il y a eu une chute  verticale de la production de cacao, notre principal produit d'exportation qui,  en 1984, a représenté moins du tiers de celle de 1915.
18.6 Le gouvernement de la République démocratique de Sao Tomé-et-Principe  accorde une grande attention à l'éducation. L'égalité entre les sexes, le droit à  l'éducation, à la santé et au travail sont énoncés dans la Constitution politique  et sont mis en pratique dans nos institutions.
18.1 En ce qui concerne l'éducation, les principes inscrits dans la loi  fondamentale de la nation, à savoir la démocratisation, le caractère obligatoire  et la gratuité de l'enseignement, imprègnent les programmes d'éducation. En  conséquence, nos efforts sont fondamentalement axés sur les solutions les plus  rationnelles et opérationnelles nous permettant de répondre avec efficacité aux  défis de l'explosion des effectifs scolaires, de la pression de la demande  sociale, de la lutte contre la discrimination sexuelle dans le domaine de  l'enseignement et de la mise en oeuvre d'une réforme adéquate et adaptée à la  réalité de notre pays.
18.8 Quoique certains. indicateurs nous autorisent à être optimistes (per-  mettez-moi, à ce sujet, de mentionner particulièrement le taux d'analphabétisme  qui a chuté de 72 % à 23 % entre 1975 et 1985 et le taux de scolarisation qui,  depuis 1982, se maintient à 97 %), certains problèmes tels le pourcentage des  filles par rapport à l'ensemble de la population scolaire (qui, depuis 1984,  stagne à 47 %), la situation déplorable des établissements scolaires, l'exiguïté  des salles de classe, l'inadéquation du réseau scolaire, l'absence de manuels et  de matériels didactiques et le manque de plus en plus aigu d'enseignants qua-  lifiés, exigent des efforts et des ressources financières qui dépassent les  moyens de notre pays pour le moment.
18.9 Notre programme éducatif pour les prochaines années, moins ambitieux  celui de la première décennie de l'indépendance pour les raisons que j ai  mentionnées ci-dessus, s'est fixé comme objectif principal l'élimination complète  de l'analphabétisme et l'augmentation qualitative du niveau culturel de notre  population.  Fe
18.10 Nous entendons consolider les assises de la réforme de l'enseignement en  améliorant les méthodologies et la préparation des programmes et en donnant la  priorité à l'éducation permanente des adultes, 2 l'élévation du niveau de l'en-  seignement obligatoire, à la formation technique et professionnelle et à la  formation des cadres.
18.11 Préoccupé par l'accroissement des taux de déperdition et de redoublement  scolaires, surtout dans les premières années d'études, dont la principale cause  est le manque de motivation des élèves, le gouvernenent de mon pays attache une  grande attention à l'amélioration du niveau nutritionnel de nos élèves. NOUS  mettons en place un programme alimentaire au titre duquel nous nous efforçons  d'assurer un repas chaud par jour aux élèves de l'enseignement primaire, PTO-  gramme dont l'extension aux premières années de l'enseignement secondaire  constitue notre souci. Nous nous sommes également engagés dans un ample projet  d'éducation, dont la composante essentielle sera la rénovation et l'actualisation  du système scolaire à tous les niveaux de l'enseignement.
18.12 Les difficultés que nous éprouvons pour promouvoir et mettre en oeuvre  les mesures nécessaires au progrès qualitatif sont nombreuses, tant en matière  d'éducation et de culture - domaine où la préservation de notre identité  culturelle reste notre principal objectif - qu'en matière de communication, cet  aspect si essentiel pour nous dont la situation géographique représente un risque  d ' isolement du res te du monde.
18.13 11 me faut toutefois souligner que le principal souci de notre gouver-  nement est d'accélérer le développement socio-économique national, en donnant la  priorité aux secteurs de l'éducation, de la culture et de la communication.
18.14 Dans ce contexte, le gouvernement de la République démocratique de Sao  Tomé-et-Principe se félicite des efforts que l'Unesco a déjà déployés en vue de  tirer parti des infrastructures qui existent dans les trois pays africains de  langue officielle portugaise, le Cap-Vert, la Gùinée-Bissau et Sao Tomé-et-  Principe, pour la mise en oeuvre du projet "Education supérieure", dont l'exé-  cution assurera graduellement une formation de qualité aux cadres de nos pays et  la participation active de ceux-ci à un développement de plus en plus impératif.
18.15 De même, nous souscrivons à l'idée que le nouvel ordre économique  international va de pair avec le nouvel ordre mondial de l'information et de la  communication ; en effet, tant que les peuples du monde demeureront isolés, en  raison soit de leur position géographique, soit du manque d'infrastructures  d'information et de communication, leur dêveloppement intégral en sera bien  évidemment entravé.
18.16 C'est pourquoi le gouvernement de la République démocratique de  Sao Tomé-et-Principe affirme son appui total aux actions menées dans le cadre du  Programme international pour le développement de la communication et du Programme  général d'information et, en outre, exhorte tous les pays de notre planète à  resserrer la coopération avec l'Unesco en vue de permettre l'élimination gra-  duelle mais rapide du décalage en matière d'information, condition indispensable  à la connaissance mutuelle des peuples dans leurs diverses manifestations de la  vie politique et socioculturelle et garantie de la paix et de la sécurité  internationales.
18.17 Je suis persuadé que l'analyse du document 23 C/5, que j'espère que  chacun ici approuvera pour sa concentration et l'accent qu'il met sur la décen-  tralistion, ainsi que ses divers programmes, notamment le PIDC, le PGI et le MAB,  imprimeront une nouvelle dynamique à l'organisation et continueront à offrir des  perspectives sûres pour le renforcement de la coopération entre les Etats membres  aux niveaux national, régional et interrégional.
18.18 Nous estimons donc que la coopération avec les organisations interna-  tionalas et les organisations non gouvernementales est souhaitable, tout en  considérant que l'Unesco est un véhicule et un instrument privilégiés pour les  relations de coopération dans ses domaines de compétence, dans lesquels elle joue  un rôle en tous points louable.
18.19 J'aimerais aussi réaffirmer ma totale adhésion et celle de la délégation  que j 'ai l'honneur de conduire, au projet du programme pour le prochain exercice  biennal ainsi qu'aux mesures que le Directeur général préconise pour surmonter  les difficultés que notre Organisation traverse en ce moment.
18.20 Monsieur le Président, cette vingt-troisième session de la Conférence  générale qui se tient au moment du quarantième anniversaire de l'ONU et de  l'Unesco, me donne l'exceptionnelle occasion de réaffirmer l'attachement total du  gouvernement de mon pays aux objectifs des Nations Unies et de rendre un sincère  hommage au Directeur général de l'Unesco pour l'action méritoire qu'il mène
526    depuis plus d'une décennie dans le monde en faveur de l'éducation, des sciences,  de la culture et de la communication, en se faisant à tout moment l'interprète de  la volonté politique des Etats membres. Permettez-moi, enfin, de formuler tous  mes voeux de succès à cette vingt-troisième session de la Conférence générale de  l'Unesco. Je vous remercie.
19.1 The PRESIDENT:  statement.
19.2 The meeting stands adjourned.  I thank the head of the delegation of Sao Tome and Principe for her  The meeting rose at 1.25 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h.25  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.25  Sacena~ne sa~cpbisae~cs B 13.25  +I J-r'. \Jlo 'LUI cp a..,Wi kJ  a-LXF13 Bf2 !5&!i*