Twenty-sixth plenary meeting
909    DISCUSSION ON THE PROBLEMS OF YOUTH (continued)  DEBAT SUR LES PROBLEMES DE LA JEUNESSE (suite)  DEBATE SOBRE; LOS PROBLEMAS DE LA JWENT'UD (continuación)  IIPEIMR II0 IIPQBJIEMAM MOJIO~EXH (npononxeHwe)  ( elj ) u-I GllsLo ocw, "LULI0  %.3-*.41'.7B&#ì!k (% )
1. Le PRESIDENT :  Ismail, délégué permanent du Liban auprès de l'Unesco, à prendre la parole.  Je déclare ouverte la séance et j'invite S. Exc. le professeur Adel
(2.1) Mr ISMAIL (Lebanon) (Translation from the Arabic) :  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for giving me  this opportunity to speak on the problems of youth in this international forum. I  shall be concerned more specifically with the situation of youth in the Arab region of  the Middle East and the present generation of Lebanese youth, who have been made  anxious about their future by the war that has now been raging in their country for  over ten years. The youth of Lebanon and the Arab countries are affected by the sanie  problems confronting contemporary world society. These problems have burgeoned since  the Second World War as a result of the increase in the world's population and the  growing complexity of economic and financial conditions, which have brought in their  wake unemployment and other crises. These problems are also the result of the develop-  ment of the communication and information media and the introduction of new technology  that has shortened both time and distance. The population of the countries of the  Middle East increased for some time after the Second World War at a higher rate than  in the other countries of the world. The population of this region doubled in less  than a generation, and the Middle East crisis, with its five wars and the resulting  suffering, hardship and exile - particularly as regards the Palestinian people, who  were forcibly ejected from their land - complicated matters and produced a generation  of young people who are strongly opposed to tyranny and domination and who are anxious  about both the present and the future. We fear that if this situation continues this  generation of youth will succumb to despair, with all the harmful effects that that  would entail for their psychological health, and consequently for the prospects for  peace in the Middle Eastern region as a whole.
(2.2) In Lebanon, Mr President, young people are going through an extremely danger-  ous and delicate period under the impact of war time conditions, whose hardships have  left indelible marks on them, irrespective of their age, social class or region. The  enormous material losses we have sustained, Mr President, do not worry us; for with  patience and perseverance and with the support of friendly fellow countries, we will  be able to reconstruct all that the war has destroyed. What does worry us is the prob-  lem of how to rehabilitate the people of Lebanon and how to re-educate a generation of  young people who have lived through the tragedy of the war and have been cast into an  unprecedented situation. After ten years of living under these conditions, our young  people have come to regard the horrors of war as a normal part of existence. This is a  truth that cannot be escaped: for those who were 15 years of age at the beginning of
911    the war are now twenty-five. They have spent their youth in abnormal conditions amidst  air-raid shelters, destruction and violence; they have become accustomed to hearing  the explosions of bombs and the sounds of heavy guns; they have learned how to manipu-  late all kinds of weapons and instruments of destruction and, tragically, there are  some,- though fortunately not many - who have taken up the use of drugs.
(2.3) This experience which we have gone through has not made us lose hope.  Lebanese officialdom and many educational and cultural institutions in the country  have tried to drown the roar of the guns with the sounds of music, to replace weapons  with books and pens, and to discipline the emotions by providing materials for read-  ing. Schools and clubs have been set up in air-raid shelters and basements so that  young people could have a place to think and reflect on ways of surmounting their  terrible predicament. Thus, statistics indicate that during the first five years of  the war, 359 cultural and scientific meetings and lectures were held and 254 painting  and sculpture exhibitions were organized, in addition to 25 folk art exhibitions, 32  art festivals, 320 musical evenings and 19 stage plays. We are well aware, Mr Presi-  dent; that the effect of those efforts has been relatively limited. The main purpose  behind them, however, was to lighten the oppressive climate of the war, to restore  hope to the hearts of young people and to encourage them to look to the future with a  spirit of confidence that might prevent them from giving way to despair. We are also  aware that those activities have only reached a limited number of young people, while  most have been denied their benefits. In the forefront of these have been the young  people of South Lebanon, whom the Israeli occupation obliged to remain secluded in  their homes without the benefit of school or cultural club. These young people lived  through the occupation suffering from enforced idleness and bitter deprivation.
(2.4) Mr President, educating a generation that knows only war for peacetime living  is a difficult, assiduous and unremitting task that will take more than a generation  to complete. The problems of these young people are diverse and complex. Their most  obvious problem is, perhaps, their anxiety about the future and the role they will  play in the society of tomorrow, the quest for the true meaning of freedom and their  right to enjoy it, and how to escape from a situation which they had no part in  making. Events have made this generation the prisoner of a will other than its own,  turning its members into a sort of non-responsible instrument of execution in the  hands of others. Lebanese youth today are living through a crisis of conscience. These  young people sense the need to escape from the feeling of emptiness and from the  suffering, misery and anxiety that is produced when people are forcibly expelled from  their lands and homes or compelled to go abroad for their education, or simply to  escape from conditions they could no longer tolerate.
(2.5) I would also like on this occasion, Mr President,, to appeal to the friendly  countries represented in this international assembly to facilitate the acceptance of  Lebanese students in their universities until the dark cloud that now hangs over  Lebanon has passed.
(2.6) The Lebanese Government is aware of the magnitude of the problems that face  it today and that will face it even more acutely in the future: it knows that the edu-  cation of a peacetime generation is not an easy task, particularly if that education  is to be based upon humane values - the exact opposite of the values engendered by the  war - and if Lebanon is to remain, in the tradition of its fathers and forefathers,  the country of love and forgiveness, goodness and generosity and a model of construc-  tive coexistence between religions. That is why the Lebanese Government is anxious to  obtain your opinions and to seek your assistance. It has great confidence in the role  that Unesco can play in this regard.
(2.7) î would also like on this occasion to extend sincere thanks to Unesco and to  its Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, for the assistance they rendered to our  educational and cultural institutions during the war and for the advisory missions  they sent to Beirut in response to the request of the Lebanese Government to help to  solve the difficult and delicate problems confronting it.
(2.8) The youth of Lebanon welcome the Barcelona Statement, regard it as a good  starting-point for promoting the interests of the young people of the world, and look  forward to international solidarity in finding solutions to the problems of youth -  problems which demand a common effort. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would  like to assure you that our purpose is to build up the young people of Lebanon and  re-educate them in accordance with universal human values and ethical standards. This  is no less important a task than the construction of factories and houses; in fact, it  is more important. What does it profit a man if he gains money and riches, all earth  and space, but loses his soul? Thank you, Mr President.
3. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie S. Exc. le professeur Adel Ismail et j,e donne la parole à  M. Claude Akpokavie, représentant du Mouvement international des étudiants  catholiques.
4.1 Mr AKPOKAVIE (International Movement of Catholic Students - Pax Romana):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, the Inter-  national Movement of Catholic Students - Pax Romana, represents students through-  out the world on questions dealing with culture, education, religion, development  and peace, with the aim of protecting and'enhancing the fullness and dignity of  the human personality. Since it is a youth movement, the specific concerns of  young people have a special place within IMCS-Pax Romana. It is in this regard  that the celebration of International Youth Year is of importance to us.
4.2 The contributions of Unesco in the field of youth have been consider-  able. From Grenoble to Barcelona, the Organization has manifested a consistent  interest and involvement in youth problems and policy. In this connection, I  would like to underline the importance that we attach to the World Congress on  Youth organized by Unesco in Barcelona, to its recommendations, to the final  Declaration and to the echo it has received throughout the world. The problems of  young people are certainly among the most important at the moment, and I would  like to pay homage to the activities held in relation to the International Youth  Year, particularly the convening of 250,000 young people from all the different  continents to meet in Rome with Pope John Paul II, who addressed also a special  message to the participants gathered on the occasion of the Barcelona Congress.
4.3 The specific problems and concerns of youth cannot be set apart from the  deep and global issues facing society as a whole. It is in this context that  young people continue to question themselves about their situation, their future  and that of the society of which they are the heirs. This questioning, which is  sometimes an anxious uncertainty about the developments in contemporary society,  is also an interrogation of the world's future, of their own future and of the  promise it holds for humanity. All this at a time when society is faced with  grave problems and challenges.
4.4 For instance, there is the challenge of a true and authentic development  that is not only based on the human person but also promotes the fullness of his  dignity. There is the specific challenge of new models of development in which  people, particularly the young, will not be marginalized but fully integrated,  together with their cultures. The dream of a new international economic order  remains yet to be realized. Today, more than ever before, the world is faced with  threats to lasting peace, threats which may compromise, definitively, the very  future of young people.
4.5 In the context of an increasingly overwhelming unemployment, an equally  increasing number of young people are faced not only with threats to their live-  lihood, but to their very human dignity. In an effort to participate in the  political, social, cultural and religious lives of their peoples, many young  people have found themselves victims of the most atrocious violations of human  rights. The ability to read and write, and still less access to the educational  system, remain unfortunately beyond the reach of many young people. Mr President,  it is within this context of crises of contemporary society that the concrete  youth problems of alienation, dependency, drug addiction, marginalization and  poverty are to be found, together with the reason why they - the young - question  their future and that of humanity.
4.6 Consequently, at the dusk of the twentieth century, the world's youth  are posing many challenges to themselves, to Unesco, to governments and to  society at large:  How do we develop a new culture of life which will be the basis of a new  world vision into which young people will be formed and in which they  will participate fully?  Which new models of development, having the young as important  actors, will erase the scandal of poverty and marginalization which is  today so rampant?  How do we facilitate a new international dialogue and develop  further the commitment to international co-operation and solidarity?  After this International Youth Year, is the subject of young people  and their concerns concretely to be translated into policy, in order to  attack unemployment, illiteracy, poverty, human rights violations and  other youth problems?  How will young people's concern for problems such as ecological  risks, militarization, new developments in science and technology that  pose threatening questions relating to life, the lack of spaces for  creativity, be tackled in full respect for human dignity?
4.7 In the final analysis, Mr President, the greatest challenge that young  people pose to us is whether we ourselves will be able to muster the political  and moral will within us all, in order to implement and build up our ideals and  hopes.
4.8 It is in this perspective that young people, whether individually or in  non-governmental organizations such as ours, are involved in concrete programmes  in favour of life. Formation in human rights and ethical questions; alternative  development projects geared towards the poor who are very often young themselves;  inter-cultural sharing and dialogue among young people from different countries  and continents; relevant research and intellectual work; actions against racism,  apartheid and human rights violations; and work in favour of peace - Mr Presi-  dent, these are, among many more, indeed the signs of hope of our times.
4.9 It is within these signs of hope that Unesco is called upon to continue  its intervention in its areas of competence and that, whilst contributing to the  global problems of society and those of the young in particular, it helps to  develop these signs of hope into. concrete achievements. Unesco's action with  young people at the grass-roots level is, in this perspective, fundamental. This  as well as the continually committed collaboration between the Organization and  non-governmental organizations of youth will ensure that young people are reached  in their efforts at building alternatives. It is with the continous sustenance of  these signs of hope that Unesco's contributions to international dialogue and  co-operation will yield full fruits.
4.10 Mr President, this international dialogue is fundamental in tackling  youth problems. Crucial youth concerns will not be resolved if this international  co-operation based on solidarity and just relations between nations and peoples  is not restored both within and outside Unesco.
4.11 Many of the issues confronting young people have a long-term component.  It is in this perspective that we invite Unesco to consider implementing a long-  term programme for youth which will lay accent on concrete projects and strat-  egies related to employment, human rights formation, cultural creativity, devel-  opment literacy and so on, targeted especially at disadvantaged and marginalized  young people. This would no doubt be a fitting follow-up to the International  Youth Year, and would give a channel of execution for the important recommen-  dations emanating from the World Congress on Youth in Barcelona.
4.12 In this respect also, within the planned Decade for Cultural Development  as well as the forthcoming International Year of Peace, efforts must be made to  give youth and their concerns particular attention and concrete support.
4.13 Mr President, the situation of young people reflects not only the pulse  of today's society, but also the image of what tomorrow's could be. Their doubts,  challenges and efforts for today and the future are therefore valid for the whole  of humanity.
4.14 In this Year of Youth, which coincides with the fortieth anniversary of  the United Nations, young people seek to become active partners in realizing the  noble aims of Unesco. Young people wish to express a new hope in the United  Nations system as a vital medium for integral development, for their responsible  participation and for a true and lasting peace. All this, in order to build up a  new world civilization of justice, solidarity and love, a civilization in which  all men and women of goodwill are bound to join hands in order to construct.  Thank you for your attention.
5. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie M. Claude Akpokavie et je donne la parole à M. Patrick  Vella, responsable de la jeunesse au Ministère des affaires étrangères et de la  culture de Malte.
6.1 Mr VELLA (Malta):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first to say how happy I am to partici-  pate in this twenty-third session of the General Conference of Unesco, being one  of the youngest delegates. This special discussion devoted to youth is a testi-  mony of the interest shown by the Organization in this subject. I would also  like to convey the highest esteem and respect of the Government and people of  Malta to you and the people of Bulgaria.
6.2 Voicing the views and sharing the ideas of other young people of our  island, I feel honoured to evoke some of the problems young people face today. We  are coming to the end of 1985 - the year internationally dedicated to youth - and  I am convinced and conscious of the many problems young people are encountering  throughout the world, every day and every minute. Surely the outcome of this
26  Year will not be an overnight change in the situation of young people: it is a  process which has to take its time to meet their everyday requirements and needs.
6.3 Mr President, we know that employment, education, racism, drug abuse,  cultural identity, apartheid and exploitation are some of the major problems  encountered by young people all over the world. We are all, in both the Western  and Southern hemispheres, meeting the same challenges. We fully appreciate the  work Unesco has been doing for the younger generation since the establishment of  its Youth Division some 30 years ago, approaching youth problems in an integrated  manner with those of society as a whole.
6.4 I know and I am sure that these topics are being tackled in various com-  missions of this Conference. Allow me, therefore to limit my intervention to a  particular concern which is securing greater and greater international awareness,  namely that of youth exchange programmes. This choice of theme is supported by  the fact that an International Conference on Youth Exchanges was recently held in  Malta, organized by our government in co-operation with Unesco. In my opinion,  this occasion provided a good example of how Unesco operates.
6.5 Between 30 September and 3 October last, 38 youth exchange directors  from governmental and non-governmental organizations discussed and evaluated  exchange activities, considering them as a beneficial means towards co-operation  and international understanding. This meeting sought to examine whether youth  exchanges have been successful in the past, where they have failed, and how to  improve them in order that they may play a better role in fostering understand-  ing, solidarity and peace. During the discussions, the following problems were  mentioned.
6.6 Firstly youth exchanges should be considered as a process of broadening  the minds of young people and should aim at developing awareness of prevailing  cultural, political, economic and social conditions and of their diversity in  today's world. More attention should therefore be paid to the content of these  programmes, which should not only be a touristic attraction.
6.7 Secondly, the causes of some failures in youth exchange programmes are  most commonly the lack of young people's direct involvement in both the planning  and the implementation of these programmes. When prior consultations are lacking,  youth exchange participants are most blindly led to non-topical programmes, or at  least to programmes non-relevant to the concerns of young people.
6.8 Further, young people do not share equal opportunities of participating  in these programmes. In most countries, cases of discrimination appear on the  basis of social, cultural and educational prejudices. Authorities must be aware  that youth exchange participants should come from all strata of society.
6.9 Generally speaking, there is a lack of well-trained and qualified pro-  grammers and directors. Training should be provided to familiarize them with  youth problems and this could be done with the co-operation of the appropriate  international organizations such as Unesco. Such training would guarantee a more  realistic adoption and formulation of exchange visits. Programmes would defi-  nitely be monitored and evaluated. Likewise, co-ordination and information are  necessary in order to make each country aware of the specific problems en-  countered by young people in their respective countries.
6.10 Lastly, administrative constraints are also often a problem where youth  exchanges are concerned. In particular, visa requirements and other national  regulations are hampering youth exchanges. To ease these constraints, consider-  ation should perhaps be given to the possibility of reaching an international  agreement between interested Member States. A fair agreement would make it poss-  ible for many young people to participate in exchange programmes. Also, travel  expenses are a main factor that disheartens young people from travelling abroad,  and this matter deserves further attention. Project-making should be abolished in  youth exchanges. Young people have to have the fullness of an experience, and to  observe closely the fabrics that make up the social, cultural and economic life  of others: Unesco has a major role to play in this field. In addition to the  circulation of information, Unesco should also help Member States and interested  organizations to meet - to elaborate better programmes, to promote bilateral and  multilateral co-operation and to encourage governments, foundations and other  appropriate sources to make more funds available.
6.11 Mr President, these are just a few but important points. To travel  abroad is an irreplacable educational means for young people, as nothing is  better than direct experience. Through the knowledge of others young people come  to understand the value of their own national identity and at the same time to  respect other values in an interdependent world.
6.12 Mr President, Mr Director-General, I have deliberately sought to avoid  generalities, and to concentrate on one aspect of youth work where Unesco is of  paramount importance. There are, of course, other important fields of inter-  vention, but wanting to be concrete and practical, I have developed one subject  which, I hope has kept your attention.
6.13 In future endeavours, and especially in the follow-up to Internatioinal  Youth Year, Unesco can count on the co-operation of my country and on the support  of young people throughout the world.
6.14 Mr President, let Unesco be the Organization where young people feel at  home. This is the message which I wished to convey to all of you. Thank you,  Mr President.
7. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie M. Patrick Vella et j'invite M. Guennady Ouranov, secrétaire  général de la Commission nationale de l'Union soviétique pour l'Unesco, à prendre  la parole.
8.2 B CCCP np06neMaM Mononexsi w ee nonoxenum ynenseTca noBcenHeBnoe w nepao-
8.3 B nameü cTpaee w ~ n a m ~ c s  MHorwe n e c m m  Mononexeux r a 3 e ~  u ncypHanoB na  UeHTpaJIbIiOfi nesaTu, no panwo w Tenemnenwm. Mononoe nomionenwe CoseTcKoro C o m a   mwpoao npusneKaeTcn R rocynapcTsennoMy ynpaanenum. B BblcmeM opraae rocynapcTsenHoR  BJïaCTH CTpáHbl - BepXOBHOM COBeTe (napnaMeHTe) CCCP W 3  1 500 nenyTaToB 317 - 3T0  JIIOnW MOJlOXe 30 neT, W sPíCn0 W X  HeU3MeHHO yBeJïHsHBaeTCII. B MeCTHble COBeTbl nenyTaT0B  TpyLlffriIUXCff u36pano 6onee 720 TblCIIY BenOBeK B BO3paCTe no 30 neT, YTO COCTaBJiffeT  nOqTHTpeTb (32,4%) OT 06merOswCnaLlenYTaTOB. nPU COBeTaX BCeXypOBHefi,B TOMsMCJie  BePXOBHOM COBeTe CCCP, 06pa30BaHbl ìlOCTORHHble ROMWCCWU i70 BOnpOCaM MOnOLleXSä. CaMaff.  MaCCOBaR 06meCTBeHHO-nOnUTWseCKaff OpraH€i3aUHff COBeTCRO8 MOJïOLle?KU - Bcecom3nblR  neHHHCK€ifi KOMMyHliCTWleCK€iR COI03 MononexKu - "YqaCTByeT - II IlXTUpym TeKCT KOHCTHTY-  TWPeCRWX, X03ffPCTBeHHblX W COUHaJïbHO-RyJïbTypHblX BOnpOCOB".
8.4 YXe 3TW @aRTbl U XaHHbie CBUllHTeJlbCTBYKiT O TOM, riT0 B COBeTCROM 06meCTBe  MOJiOLleXb RBJiffeTCR aBTOPWTeTHblM EI aKTUBHbiM er0 ROMnOHeHTOM, POnb ROTOpOrO HeyKJlOH-  HO BO3paCTaeT. "HW OnHa C R O J I ~ R O - H H ~ Y ~ ~  MaCmTa6HaII &iCTOpUseCRaff sanasa, - I'OBOpwJl  aRTHBHOI'0, neffTeJibiiOr0 II pa3HOCTOpOHHerO YsaCTUII MOJIOLleXW''. TaROB RJllo~eBOR IIOLIXOll  CTeneHHOe BHUMaHUe. Bce COBeTCRWe PìHOIIIW EI neBymR€i iiOJib3ymTCff 6eCr1naTHblM CpenHHM
06ecnesenbi PeaJIbIiHe BO3MOXHOCTW 3aHWMaTbCff TPYllOBOR JJeRTeJIbHOCTbH) no WX Bbl6Opy,  PYCCROM U BCeX npyr€iX HaUWOHanbHbiX R3blRaX. K)HOUIH €i neByiüK€i aRTWBHO BblCTynaIoT B  npH  uww CCCP - B ynpasnenua rocynapcTsenebimn w O ~ ~ ~ C T B ~ H H H M W  nenami, B pemeeww nonw-  reHepanbnblB ceripeTaPb UK KIICC Tosapwm M.C. l?op6ase~, - ne MoaeT 6bl~b pemena be3  R Mononemw B HameR cTpane.
8.5 Mbl MOXeM, TaRWM 06pa30M, 3aBBEITb C 3TOR BblCOROR TPW6YHbl, YTO B CCCP ne-  naeTcR Bce ans 6nara Mononor0 nononenus, YTO Bce OcnoBnbIe peRoMeHnauww, conepxa-  IgwecxBnporpaMMeMepOOHno npoaenenwro MeXnyHapOnHOrO rona Mononemw, BblnonnsmTcs  ycnemeo .
8.6 MoJIonexb CCCP nonnepxwsaecr II pacmwprreT Romamrd c Mononexbm npyrwx cTpan.
1 350 Mononexmmw opranw3auws~u nonaBnxmmero 60nbmw~c~sa cTpan Mupa. IIpencTaswTenw  coseTcKoR Mononem npwnmanu axTnBHoe ysacme B p a s p a 6 o ~ ~ e  UeneP w sanas Mexnyna-  poneoro rona Mononemw (MTM) , BO Meornx Mexnyeaponnbix BcTpevax Mononemu MHpa.
8.7 KpynnePmnM C O ~ H T M ~ M  Mononemu Mwpa w BamHblM BKnanoM B peanw3auwm sanas  TOB, Ha ROTOPHR caexanwcb c m m e  10 TMCR~I senoBex npamusecmM w3 Bcex cTpan Mwpa.  TpeHbl Bce Baxeeümue Bonpocbl, wmepecymmwe cerones Mononeab, u npemne Bcero Tame,  RaR ponb Mononexn B npenompameeuu snepeoü naTacTpo@bi, CouwanbHoe nonoxenwe w  npasa Mononemi. BoraToIi w pa3H006pa3HOR 6wna KynbTypHas nporpaMMa @ecTwBansr, RO-  TOPHP m a n  KpynHeRmuM no CBOUM ~ a c m ~ a 6 a ~  n p a s n e u ~ o ~  Mononexw Mnpa. MH BHCOKO oue-  nwBaeM TOT @ a m ,  ~ ITO ï0HECKO npunsna ysacTwe B  TOM @ecTwsane.  B HaCTOIIEIee BpeMII KOMUTeTOM MOJiO~eXíHblX OpraHHSaUHfi CCCP ITO~ZiepXHBaPJTCR CBff3W C  MrM RBEIJIOCb npoBeneHwe B MocRBe neTOM c.r. BCeMWpHOrO QeCTUBanII MOJiOHeXW U CTyneH-  Ha @eCTHBane, BO BpeMX MHOi?O~€iCJieHHblX BCTpes U LIWCIiYTOB, 6binU 06cyncne~bl U PaCCMO-
8.8 npenCTaBUTeJIU COBeTCROfi MOJlOneXU B CBOH) Oqepenb YsaCTBOBaJIU B KpynHefimeM  MeponpHaTww IOHECRO - BceMWpHoM KoHrpecce no n p o 6 n e ~ a ~  Mononem B BapcenoHe U B  p a s p a 6 o ~ ~ e  peKoMeHnayeR KoHrpeccal a Tanae B psne npyrwx MeponpwsTuR B pannax MrM.
8.9 no HameMy MHeHWH), peKOMeHnaUHU BCeMXPHOrO KOHrpeCCa il0 np06neMaM MOJíO-  neXU, a TaRXe pyKOBOn5iIQMe npHHUUnbl no nJlaHUpOBaHUI0 U OCyüieCTBJIeHUI0 MepOiTpHfiTUR,  YTBepntneHHbie KOHCYJlbTaTWBHblM KOMWTBTOM OOH no MI'M, MOFYT CJIyXUTb XOpOmefi OCHOBOB  nns nanbeeümeü pa6o.r~ DHECRO B ~ T O M  HanpasneHus.
8.10 COBeTCIcU~ COI03 BbiCTyiiaeT 3a C6anaHCUpOBaHHbIfi nOnXOLI R peanU3auUH FJiaBHbiX  u€?Jleü MïM - YqaCTAe, pa3BUTirel MUP. BMeCTe C TeM, yrlUTblBaR B03paCTpJIQYH) OnaCHOCTb  Pa3BR3blBaHHR BCeMUPHOrO ÇinepHOI'O KOH@JlkIRTa, no HameMy MHeHUM, Ha nepB0e MeCTO  ROJiXHbI BblRTII BOnpOCbi 60pb6b1 np0TilB yrpO3b1 5InepHOÜ BOfiHbI, 3a 06y3na~ue rOHRU BOO-  PyXeHUÜ U YnpOWHUe Mupa. B 3TOR CBR3EI HaM TPYDHO nOHRTb, B YaCTHOCTEI, noseMy B  HapOAHOrO r0na MUpa C09TeHO KaK HenpUOpUTeTHOe (nyHKT 05423 (b)).  npoeme nporpaMMbi n 610nme~a Ha 1986-1987 rr. ysacTne Mononem B npoeeneauu Meany-
8.11 HaM npencTaBnReTcs T a m e  H ~ O ~ X O ~ H M ~ I M ,  ~ 0 6 6 1  DHECKO amnBHee nonnepxmana
6Opb6y MOJïOZleXH Pa3BUBaH)üIHXCR CTpaH, HallpaBJIeHHyI0 Ha íipeOnOJleHHe 3KOHOMU~eCROfi  OTCTaJiOCTW, yCTaH0BJieHUe HOBOF0 MeXnyHapOnHOrO 3ROHOMUYeCRO~O U UH@OpMaUHOHHOrO  nopsnna, n n m s m a u m  R O ~ O H W ~ ~ U ~ M ~ ~  ncnopeHeHHe Bcex @OPM pacu~ma u anapmeana,  osepenaoü mepTBoü KoToporo m a n  Mononoir a@pnnaacmü n03T E.. M O J I O M ~ ~ ,  3a yKpenne-  T a m e  ~ K T W B W ~ ~ U W R  ycannü DHECKO U no OcyIuecTBneHum npaa'mononems Ha Tpyn, nocTyn  x 06pa30~a~n10, HayIce n IcynbType A BO MHornx npyrnx cTpaaax Mnpa.
8.12 CCCP ucxonm ~3 Torol YTO MeponpwnTns DHECKO Ha r n o 6 a n b ~ o ~  u perxoaanb-  HWe nOJlHTM~eCKOfi M 3ROHOMWqeCROR He3aBUCWMOCTH CBOWX CTpaH EI HaPonoB. H e o 6 x o n ~ ~ a   HOM YpOBHe LIOJiñíHbì 6blTb HanpaBneHbI npeXne BCerO Ha TO, rl~06b1 CTWMYJIMpOBaTb U non;-  LIepXUBaTb MeCTHbIe EI HaLIHOHanbHbie HHHUMaTHBbI. TOJlbRO B 3TOM CJlysae OHM 6ynyT MaK-  CUMaJlbHO S@@eRTUBHbI.
8.13 rOBOpR O lTpaRTkirleCROÜ JlesTeJlbHOCTM DHECKO no paCCMaTpABaeMOMy HaMA BO-  IipOCy, XOTeJiOCb 6bI nO~VepKHYTbl rITO Ype3BbIBaÜHO BaXHO, rlTO6bl B naJlbHefimefi LleRTeJlb-  HOCTW DHECKO no np06JIeMaM MOJIOLIeXKA B nOJlXHOÜ CTeileHil ysFfTbiBaJlHCb UHTepeCbl BCeX  rpynn CTpaH; He06XOlJHMOI B BaCTHOCTII, npeOnOneTb UMeiûüIyIoCn B HaCTORüIee BpeMR TeH-  LZeHIJiliû OpMeHTWpOBaTbCR B OCHOBHOM Ha OnHy rpynny CTpaH, OCO6eHHO npU nonóope  aBTopoB nccnenosamü w ny6nw~aunü.
06QeCTBa. BJlarOnapKl 3a BHUMaHHe.  B pamnax DHECKO B nesTenbHocTn, IrMemmeü uenbm ynysmeaue nonoaeHm MononeanI noBbi-
(8.1) Mr OURANOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the  Russian) :  Comrade President, we are today discussing a matter of great importance.  Young people number 922 million persons, or 19.4 per cent of the world's population  (ECOSOC figures for January 1985). This one fact alone is quite enough for matters  concerning young people to be put in one of the foremost places among the problems  troubling mankind. The young men and women of today are those who will create the  material and spiritual values of the future, and mankind's tomorrows depend in large  measure on what young people today will be.
(8.2) In the USSR, the problems of young people and their situation are day by day  accorded the highest priority. All young Soviet men and women receive free secondary  education and free medical care. They are all guaranteed genuine opportunities by law  to do the job of their choice, to improve their qualifications, their cultural level  and their physical development.
(8.3) In our country, dozens of newspapers and magazines are published for young  people in Russian and all the other national languages. Young men and women make an  active contribution to the central press and on radio and television. The young gener-  ation in the Soviet Union is widely involved in the government of the country. In the  country's highest government body - the Supreme Soviet (parliament) of the USSR - out  of 1,500 deputies, 317 are under 30 years of age and their number is increasing  steadily. Over 720 thousand people up to the age of 30 have been elected to the local  soviets of workers' deputies which is about one-third (32.4 per cent) of the total  number of deputies. Soviets of all levels, including the Supreme Soviet of the USSR,  have standing commissions on youth matters. The biggest social and political organiz-  ation for Soviet youth, the All-Union Leninist Young Communist League, participates,  and I quote the text of the Constitution of the USSR 'in managing state and public  affairs, and in deciding political, economic and social and cultural matters'.
(8.4) These facts and figures indeed show that young people are an authoritative  and active component of Soviet society whose role is steadily growing. As the General  Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union,
917    Mr M.S. Gorbachov said, 'Not one historical problem of any scale can be solved without  the active, energetic and versatile participation of young people'. Such is the key  approach to youth in our country.
(8.5) We are thus able to state from this lofty tribune that in the USSR, every-  thing is being done for the well-being of the young generation and that all the main  recommendations contained in the United Nations Programme of Measures for Inter-  national Youth Year are being successfully implemented.
(8.6) Young people in the USSR maintain and are extending contacts with young  people in other countries. At the present time, the USSR Committee of Youth Organiz-  ations has links with 1,350 youth organizations in the vast majority of countries in  the world. Representatives of Soviet youth played an active part in establishing the  aims and tasks of International Youth Year (IYY) at many international meetings of  world youth.
(8.7) The greatest event for the youth of the world and an important contribution  to achieving the objectives of IYY was the holding in Moscow this summer of the World  Festival of Youth and Students, attended by over 10,000 people from virtually every  country in the world. At countless meetings and debates during the Festival, all the  most important issues of concern to youth today were discussed and examined, and in  first place issues such as the role of young people in averting a nuclear catastrophe,  and the social situation and rights of young people. The cultural programme of the  Festival was rich and varied, and in scale the Festival was the greatest festive event  for the young people of the world. We greatly appreciate the fact that Unesco played a  part in this Festival.
(8.8) In their turn, representatives of Soviet youth played a part in Unesco's most  outstanding undertaking, the World Congress on Youth in Barcelona, and in preparing  the recommendations of the Congress. They also took part in a number of other activi-  ties within the framework of IYY.
(8.9) In our view, the recommendations of the World Congress of Youth and the  Specific Programme of Measures and Activities laid down by the United Nations Advisory  Committee for the I W  can serve as a firm foundation for further work by Unesco in  this field.
(8.10) The Soviet Union is in favour of a balanced approach to the realization of  the main aims of IYY - Participation, Development, Peace. At the same time, bearing in  mind the danger of the outbreak of a world nuclear conflict, we feel that priority  should be given to combating the threat of nuclear war, to curbing the arms race and  to strengthening peace. In this connection, we find it hard to understand why, in par-  ticular, in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1986-1987, the participation of young  people in International Year of Peace is rated as second priority (para. 05423(b)).
(8.11) We also consider it necessary for Unesco to lend more active support to the  struggle of young people in the developing countries to overcome economic backward-  ness, to establish a new international economic and information order, to eliminate  colonialism, eradicate all forms of racism and apartheid, the latest victim of which  has been the young African poet B. Moloise, and to strengthen the political and  economic independence of their countries and peoples. Also called for is the activiz-  ation of Unesco's efforts to make a reality of the rights of young people to work and  access to education, science and culture in many other countries of the world.
(8.12) The view of the USSR is that Unesco's global and regional activities should  be directed primarily to encouraging and supporting local and national initiatives.  Only then will they have the maximum effect.
(8.13) Turning to Unesco's practical activity on the matter under consideration, I  should like to stress that it is extremely important that in Unesco's future action on  youth matters, the interests of all groups of countries should be given due consider-  ation. In particular, the present trend towards concentrating mainly on one group of  countries must be reversed, especially when it comes to choosing the authors of  research and publications.
(8.14) In conclusion, I should like to stress the readiness of the USSR to collabor-  ate actively within the framework of Unesco in activities aiming at the improvement of  the situation of young people and enhancing their role in the social, political,  economic and cultural life of society. Thank you.
9. Le PRESIDENT :  Ministère des relations extérieures de Cuba, à prendre la parole.  Je remercie M. Guennady Ouranov et j'invite M. Frank Ortiz Rodriguez, du
(10.1) Mr ORTIZ RODRIGUEZ (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish):  Comrade President, distinguished delegates, at the twenty-second session of  its General Conference, Unesco declared that 'Young people represent a substantial and  ever-growing section of the world population and have an increasingly important role  to play in the solution of the major problems facing mankind, and ... it is therefore  necessary to offer them ever broader opportunities of playing an active part in all  aspects of the social, economic, ... educational and cultural life of society'. With  these lofty aims in view, Unesco prepared appropriately to take part in the activities  planned by the United Nations General Assembly, which had decided to proclaim 1985  International Youth Year, selecting for the occasion three of the leading themes run-  ning through contemporary world problems: 'Participation, Development, Peace'.
(10.2) Unesco's activities on behalf of youth are among the most outstanding of  those undertaken by any of the organizations belonging to the system. In 1980, the  General Conference, at its twenty-first session, held in Belgrade, approved resol-  ution 3.06, in which the Director-General was invited to prepare programmes for help-  ing young people, so that, having been suitably prepared, they might make their con-  tribution to social, political, economic and cultural life. This is undoubtedly the  right line to follow in our Organization's activities and it is our duty to go on  promoting it. The Cuban Delegation, therefore, is taking part today in this debate on  the problems of youth, in the context of the present twenty-third session of the  General Conference of Unesco, in the conviction that it is supporting a noble and just  task, of such importance and such topical interest that it may be considered one of  the most pressing that our Organization still has to face. And let me say once more  that this Organization, with its high prestige and the respect it enjoys among all the  world's peoples, and with its spheres of competence bearing so directly on the needs  of the young, has a greater duty than any other international organization to accord  priority attention to the problems of youth.
(10.3) Comrade President, in our country young people are playing an active part in  the changes that the revolutionary process has brought about in Cuban society. Chil-  dren and young people make up no more than half of the population, which on l January
1985 numbered about 10 million inhabitants. The Federation of University Students and  the Federation of Secondary-School Students count among their members virtually all  young people studying in higher and secondary education establishments respectively.,  Almos,t two million children and adolescents up to 14 years of age belong to the 'Jose  Parti' pioneer organization. All Cuban children and young people receive free edu-  cation under the national system regardless of race, sex or any other kind of distinc-  tion. The Communist Youth Union counts among its members the most outstanding and  selfless young people who, on the strength of their merits in their studies and their  work, aspire to this high distinction.
(10.4) Under the terms of the Constitution, young Cubans have the right to elect  representatives and to be elected to the local organs of the people's power from the  age of 16, and to the Asamblea Nacional del Poder Popular (National Assembly of the  People's Power) from the age of eighteen. This right is so widely exercised that, in  practice, almost a quarter of the delegates to local bodies are under 30 years of age  and 4.6 per cent of the representatives on the supreme State body are young people.
(10.5) There are also technical youth brigades, groups of young technicians and pro-  fessionals who undertake research and devise innovative activities with a view to  solving the problems of production, service management and science. The young people  of Cuba also regard the principles and objectives of Unesco as their own and contrib-  ute their experience, ideas and knowledge to the Organization. Young Cubans are thus  participating in activities organized by Unesco, such as the Coloquio Regional sobre  la Interrelacion entre la Educacion y el Trabajo (Regional Symposium on the Relation-  ship between Education and Work), held in Caracas; the Round Table on Youth in the
1980s, held in Romania, and the World Congress on Youth which recently took place in  Barcelona.
(10.6) Our country also forms part of the Associated Schools Project, and is  actively and enthusiastically developing the Unesco Clubs movement. The members of  both these movements carry out activities designed to back up the work done by the  Organization. Present Cuban society offers young people full opportunities for par-  ticipation, which are in practice reflected in the enthusiastic support accorded by
921    this important sector of the population to the country's social and economic develop-  ment plans, in which their contribution is vital. Moreover, young Cubans are some of  the main promoters of the internationalist spirit of the Cuban revolution. Thousands  of young technicians, doctors and engineers are thus to be found in various sister  countries altruistically contributing to the welfare of their peoples, while our  schools have generously opened their doors to more than 22,000 fellowship-holders from  those same sister countries. Comrade President, the fact that, in our country, we  ensure that young people have a suitable environment for their training and develop-  ment, free from the evils, vices and disasters that might frustrate it, so that they  may take over the reins from the adult generation, does not prevent the Cuban Govern-  ment from directing its attention to the lamentable situation of other young people in  many parts of the world.
(10.7) In the countries of the Third World young people, along with the otiier  sectors of the population, are struggling against the evils imposed on them by the  fact that those countries are underdeveloped, with hunger, disease and unemployment,  in all their harsh reality, blighting the purest dreams of the future naturally  cherished by the young. These young people, who are so far from receiving the assist-  ance they so greatly need, are witnessing the appearance of new phenomena which, like  their countries' indebtedness, herald the worsening of situations such as that of edu-  cation, whose resources there are dwindling by the day. It was factors such as these  that prompted Latin American youth to convene in Havana last September a meeting of  students on the themes of external debt and the new international economic order, at  which they emphasized the urgent need for the abolition of debt and the establishment  of the above-mentioned new economic order as prerequisites for the solving of the  serious problems facing their peoples.
(10.8) In other countries, young people are dying every day - as the South African  poet Moloise died - in their struggle against aberrant systems such as apartheid, or  in an attempt to shake off the colonialist yoke in their countries, such as Namibia,  or to prevent their peoples' bid for independence from being thwarted. Elsewhere,  young people are taking'to drugs as a means of escape from an alienating, individual-  istic, consumer society where self-interest is the order of the day and the ideal of a -   better world is trampled underfoot. Cuba has been, and will continue to be, on the  alert to draw attention to such situations and to condemn them.
(10.9) Comrade President, distinguished delegates, the youth of today is the  humanity of tomorrow. As such, young people have every right to show their concern and  disagreement with regard to the serious problems that are threatening not only the  world of tomorrow, but also the present-day world, in which it has been their lot to  grow up, develop and prepare themselves for the future. Among these serious problems,  the problem of peace is of particular importance to the young. The unbridled imperial-  ist ambitions that are seeking to impose their hegemonistic designs on the world are  the direct causes of the arms race, in which such fabulous sums of money and resources  are invested that a mere fraction of them would suffice to carry out successfully all  the youth programmes of all the international organizations.
(10.10) The young people affected by these problems are well aware of this fact and  that is why we find them energetically reacting and determinedly and pugnaciously  closing ranks with so many other sectors that are calling for an end to the arms race,  and the establishment of a climate of international peace and security, in which there  would be room for solutions to be found to their problems and in which their develop-  ment and preparation for the future would be promoted instead of being denied.
(10.11) In all international youth events, demands for peace have always been voiced.  At the World Congress on Youth, the most important event sponsored by Unesco during  International Youth Year, this demand was heard yet again. In the Barcelona Statement  we read:
(10.12)  'The participants came out in favour of peace, disarmament, the elimination  of all forms of discrimination, racism and apartheid and effective respect  for human rights and fundamental freedoms as laid down in the United Nations  Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and for the rights of peoples,  especially to self-determination. In order to achieve these goals, the search  for disarmament depends on the will to live together in peace, mutual toler-  ance, observance of the precepts of international law and mutual respect,  objectives to which young people want to contribute in an active way'.  Furthermore, it was agreed, in the report of Commission III of that Congress,  to request Unesco to:  'Step up the dissemination of information on the implications of the arms  race, the potential contribution of the [conversion of the] resources  currently being used for armament purposes into resources for the solution of  pressing problems first of all in developing countries such as the elimin-  ation of poverty, hunger, disease, illiteracy and unemployment'.
(10.13) Unesco has proclaimed: 'That since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in  the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed'. We read these lines  every day in the Organization's Constitution and we have heard them time and time  again in the course of this twenty-third session of the Conference. What, then, is the  reason for those attitudes that seek to discredit Unesco's work for peace? Why do we  hear talk of cuts in programmes such as those devoted to constructing the defences of  peace in the minds of the young? Cuba once more denounces such attitudes, for they are  working against our Organization and against the mulilateral system. Thank you,  Mr President.
11. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie M. Frank Ortiz Rodriguez et je donne la parole 5 M. Jia  Xueqian, secrétaire général adjoint de la Commission nationale chinoise pour
(12.4) Young people constitute that part of the population which is the' most vital  and the most creative. They have played an important role in striving for self-  improvement and for the right to education and work, in opposing war and upholding  peace and in promoting social justice and human progress. The history of all countries  in the world testifies to the fact that young people have always been a very important  force, whether in the struggle €or national independence or in the cause of national  development and social progress. Youth represents the future. It is the hope of man-  kind. The development and prosperity of all countries depend in the final analysis on  the efforts of the younger generations.
(12.5) The improvement of the situation of young people, their happiness and that of  the whole population mainly depend on national development and prosperity. The basic  condition for raising the material and cultural levels of the young and of the popu-  lation as a whole is the development of the national economy and culture. This can be  achieved only by urging and organizing young people to participate actively in the  economic and cultural development of their respective countries. The Chinese Govern-  ment and the various sectors of our society all see to it that young people are  allowed to take part in state and social affairs and in other areas involving the  development of culture and the economy. In this way, they may, as masters of their  country, take up responsible posts and display their diverse talents in the great  social arena and work productively and creatively in industry, agriculture, the  tertiary sector, science and technology and culture and education. The pioneering role  of Chinese youth in our modernization campaign and their dedication to its successful  completion have won wide recognition and great appreciation from the whole of society.  In recent years, large numbers of young leading cadres and specialized professionals  have emerged group upon group in various fields of activity, thus continually invigor-  ating our society with new vitality. The Chinese Government has' also taken various  measures to encourage young people to study, to create employment opportunities for  them, to build all kinds of recreational and sports facilities for young people and  children, to help them overcome their specific difficulties and to eliminate all kinds  of practices that are detrimental to their healthy growth.
(12.6) A peaceful international environment is an indispensable condition for all  countries striving for development. Since young people constitute a vital factor in  the economic development and social progress of all countries, they are also an  important force in maintaining world peace. This year is the fortieth anniversary of  victory in the anti-Fascist war. The calamities brought to mankind by previous wars  are still fresh in our minds. Young people long for peace. Hoping that the whole of  mankind will be spared the hardships of war from now on, they firmly oppose a  repetition of such human tragedies. Young people of all countries should unite and  combine their efforts to achieve world peace and stability. Our modernization requires  a stable and peaceful international environment. Chinese youth is ready to make its  contribution to world peace, and at the same time, it firmly supports and fully appre-  ciates the efforts made by the youth of other countries in the world to ease inter-  national tension and to safeguard world peace. Chinese youth would like to see that  young people all over the world can live and grow in peace.
(12.7) Unesco should do its best to facilitate friendly exchanges and to promote  mutual understanding, friendship and co-operation among young people of all countries.  This will certainly contribute positively to the promotion and defence of world peace.  We set great store by such friendly commurications and we have therefore, focusing on  the International Youth Year theme, namely, 'participation, development, peace',  launched many bilateral and multilateral activities. We sponsored a friendly meeting  of young people in the Asia and Pacific region on the theme of peace, friendship and  development. It was also attended by special guests and observers from many African,  American and European countries and from various international organizations. In  addition, we hosted a friendly get-together for Chinese and French young people. A  symposium was held by Chinese young people and young people from a number of Afrpcan  countries to discuss questions related to youth activities in developing countries.  Bilateral festivities were also organized for Chinese young people and their counter-  parts in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Japan and New Zealand. As part of  the programme for the International Youth Year celebrations, we played host, with the  co-sponsorship of FIFA, to the First World Kodak Cup Football Championship for players  under the age of sixteen. We also sent youth delegations to attend the World Congress  on Youth convened by Unesco and the world conference of national committees for Inter-  national Youth Year. Through these activities, the young people of different countries  promoted their mutual understanding and friendship and exchanged their experiences in  the work for peace and development, thereby making a greater contribution to the pro-  motion of social progress and world peace. In celebration of International Youth Year,  the Chinese national organizing committee held an art exhibition entitled 'Chinese  Youth in Progress', which shows in graphic form the role played by the Chinese youths  in activities of participation, development and peace. We also issued special copper  souvenir badges and special commemorative stamps to mark Youth Year. All this is  designed to make Chinese youth more aware of the great significance of International  Youth Year so as to urge our young people to contribute more to participation, devel-  opment and peace.
(12.8) The year 1985 will soon be over, but the general aim of participation, devel-  opment and peace will continue to stimulate young people of all countries to devote  themselves to the great cause of national construction, social progress and world  peace. It will also continue to be a goal for the world's youth to strive to attain.  We liope that the Organization will play a more active role in efforts to improve the  situation of youth the world over, and engage vigorously in the youth activities fore-  seen in the draft programme. China has thus decided to be a co-sponsor of the draft  resolution submitted by the Romanian Delegation and entitled 'Unesco's contribution to  International Youth Year and future objectives'. China also hopes that this draft  resolution will be considered and adopted by the current session of the General Con-  ference. Thank you, Mr President.
13. Le PRESIDENT :  chef de la délégation de la République centrafricaine, à prendre la parole.
14.1 M. BLAGUE (République centrafricaine) :  Je vous remercie Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, Monsieur  le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences,  Mesdames et Messieurs, honorables délégués, les jeunes représentent une part  importante et toujours croissante de la population mondiale comme vous le savez.  C'est dire que contribuer à la compréhension et à la résolution des problèmes  des jeunes, c'est oeuvrer à la solution des problèmes de l'humanité car, d'aucuns  l'ont affirmé, les jeunes constituent l'avenir de notre planète. Le Président  fondateur de la République centrafricaine, Barthélémy Boganda, écrivait déjà en
1949 : "L'avenir d'un pays dépend du nombre et de l'éducation des enfants".  Barthélemy Boganda optait donc pour une jeunesse nombreuse mais éduquée,  c'est-à-dire capable de transformer le pays de l'intérieur. Cette option demeure  toujours actuelle et inspire l'action de la République centrafricaine.
14.2 C'est pourquoi, selon nous, le premier problème qui se pose à la jeu-  nesse, c'est de sortir de l'ignorance et d'avoir une formation humaine et  professionnelle. L'ignorance et le manque d'éducation contribuent en effet à  l'asservissement de la jeunesse comme à celui de l'ensemble de la société, car  l'ignorance joue un rôle décisif dans l'exploitation de l'homme par l'home.  L'affirmation de la jeunesse passe par l'éducation, la culture, la science et la  cormnunication, qui constituent des compEsantes essentielles de la libération de  l'homme, et Boganda nous a appris que savoir lire est aussi normal que savoir  écouter. Savoir écrire est aussi normal que savoir parler. L'enseignement n'est  donc pas un luxe mais une nécessité car toute la vie sociale est fondée sur  l'apprentissage et l'enseignement''.
14.3 Si nous nous permettons d'insister sur cet aspect des problèmes des  jeunes, c'est que nous avons ia conviction que "l'instruction est aussi néces-  saire à l'esprit de l'enfant que la nourriture l'est à son corps". Ne pas donner  à la jeunesse une éducation et une instruction adéquates, c'est suivre les traces  du gouverneur de la Martinique Fénelon qui, au XVIIIe siècle, écrivait à ses amis  en France : ''Moi, je ne veux pas donner l'instruction à mes nègres car l'ins-  truction dans leurs mains est une arme dangereuse pouvant les conduire à un  certain raisonnement et leur permettre de se rendre compte des injustices .que  nous, Blancs, avons à leur égard''. Des jeunes dépourvus de connaissances et de  formation professionnelle : voilà les nouveaux Nègres, des laissés-pour-compte  par le progrès, quel que soit le pays dans lequel ils se trouvent et Barthélémy  Boganda l'avait si bien compris qu'il affirmait le 22 avril 1954 : "Eduquer un  enfant, c'est le préparer à sa vie d'homme par un développement physique, intel-  lectuel, moral et social...".
14.4 Dans cette optique nous pouvons dire que le rôle de l'éducation de la  jeunesse est de promouvoir la liberté de l'individu, grâce à sa capacité  d'affronter et de surmonter les difficultés de l'existence. Cette éducation de la  jeunesse comprend quatre éléments essentiels, l'éducation matérielle qui ouvre la  voie au travail en vue du bien-être social ; l'éducation intellectuelle,  c'est-à-dire l'instruction en vue de la maîtrise d'une profession ; l'éducation  sociale qui implique le respect de la personne, des biens et des droits du  voisin ; et enfin l'éducation morale qui se fonde sur le respect de ses racines  culturelles et des valeurs transcendentales.
14.5 Monsieur le Président, la meilleure voie qui conduit à cette affirmation  de la jeunesse et à cette formation complète de l'homme c'est l'éducation au  travail, qui peut faire comprendre à chaque jeune qu'il peut améliorer son  existence par un effort plus grand. Et notre conviction, là aussi, c'est que les  jeunes qui représentent un élément moteur dans le développement économique et  culturel de la société à laquelle ils appartiennent doivent adopter une attitude  nouvelle à l'égard du travail. Donner le goût du travail à la jeunesse, donner le,  goût de l'effort et des résultats positifs qui en résultent, voilà l'un des  Je remercie M. Jia Xueqian et j'invite le professeur Alphonse Blagué,
26  devoirs qui incombent aux adultes. Mais comment cela peut-il se faire quand on  sait que le chômage sévit dans nos sociétés ? Mais comment cela peut-il se faire  quand certaines activités humaines ne reçoivent pas une juste rémunération dans  la société des adultes ?
14.6 Par ailleurs, la jeunesse pose un certain nombre d'exigences politiques  que les dirigeants doivent prendre en considération et satisfaire. Et à cet  égard, il ne faudrait rien ménager pour éclairer leur conscience, leur faire  toucher du doigt la vérité.
14.7 En République centrafricaine, l'histoire nationale nous en fournit la  preuve : une fois de plus par l'intermédiaire du Président fondateur Barthélémy  Boganda qui dans le no 3 de la revue Pour une République centrafricaine,  l'Afrique équatoriale française face à l'avenir, écrivait : "L'Afrique est  retrouvée ! L'Afrique est reconquise I L'Afrique aux Africains I Crie avec fierté  notre jeunesse congolaise. Souffrez, jeunes gens, que je vous dise ce que je  crois être la vérité : l'illusion est le défaut de votre âge, mais gardez-la le  plus longtemps possible car c'est elle qui vous donne votre gaieté joviale,  l'espoir et le goût de croire. Cependant, je ne veux pas vous dissimuler la  situation réelle de l'Afrique équatoriale et du bassin congolais tout entier".  Cette citation qui remonte, bien sûr, à un moment donné de l'histoire de  l'Afrique équatoriale française, de l'Afrique centrale et de l'ancien Oubangui-  Chari devenu République centrafricaine, reste encore valable de nos jours.
14.8 Certes, des efforts ont été déployés en Afrique au cours de ces  dernières années dans le domaine de l'éducation et de la formation des jeunes  mais les résultats restent décevants. Le taux de déperdition, de redoublement  scolaire est très alarmant. Le contenu de l'enseignement, essentiellement  livresque, ne prépare pas les jeunes à résoudre les problèmes de l'existence. Les  adultes, eux-mêmes désemparés, n'apparaissent plus comme des modèles ou des  valeurs de référence. Le règne du doute, du soupçon et de la méfiance s'installe.  I1 s'ensuit un manque de confiance en soi et dans les autres chez les jeunes. La  lassitude et l'isolement entraînent certains d'entre eux vers la drogue et  d'autres vers la déviance, et l'absence d'insertion sociale pousse le jeune vers  l'anomie. L'éducation relative à la lutte contre la drogue et ses conséquences  est l'une des voies susceptibles d'aider les parents, les autorités et les jeunes  à s'en sortir.
14.9 C'est pourquoi, j'adresse mes plus vives félicitations à l'Unesco et à  son Directeur général, pour les nombreuses initiatives déjà prises dans ce  domaine. Nous voudrions donc les assurer de tout notre soutien, et la République  centrafricaine est prête à s'associer à toutes initiatives futures.
14.10 Monsieur le Président, les jeunes sont les témoins quotidiens des  pratiques sociales fondées sur l'égoïsme, l'esprit de lucre et la corruption. Ils  savent que le plus souvent dans nos sociétés actuelles, la médiocrité triomphe du  mérite ; le tribalisme, le népotisme et le favoritisme constituent le modèle  comportemental. Bien évidemment, certains d'entre eux, en vue d'assurer leur  promotion ou leur survie, font preuve de complaisance à l'égard de ces pratiques.  Mais il convient également de souligner que d'autres jeunes prennent le parti de  réagir contre ces pratiques que je viens de stigmatiser.
14.11 En effet, l'histoire de l'Afrique en général, celle de la République  centrafricaine en particulier? nous montre qu'une jeunesse mobilisée et  consciente de ses reponsabilités contribue souvent à des changements socio-  politiques et culturels importants et positifs. Au plan national, pour résoudre  les problèmes socio-économiques, les responsables de la politique centrafricaine  ont dû créer le Service civique national de la promotion de la jeunesse, chargé  de former tous les jeunes de 14 à 25 ans inclus, dépourvus de formation pro-  fessionnelle, illettrés, semi-alphabétisés ou renvoyés de l'école. Au sein de ce  service, ils reçoivent des enseignements techniques et professionnels ainsi  qu'une certaine forme de culture générale. A l'issue de leur formation, ils  s'établissent dans des clubs, des villages précoopératifs, où ils assument la  responsabilité de la production et de la commercialisation des produits créés.  L' action au titre de 1 'animation rurale, du développement communautaire, celle  des centres ruraux d'éducation et de formation, etc. prennent comme cible  privilégiée les jeunes. Et nous savons gré au système des Nations Unies, en  général, et à l'Unesco, en particulier, qui nous a souvent aidés dans ce domaine,  à amorcer et à intensifier nos actions. Je me félicite en effet de l'action de  l'Unicef, de la Commission économique pour l'Afrique, de l'OMS (jeunesse et  santé), de la FAO, qui apportent 'leur concours à la République centrafricaine
14.12 Monsieur le Président, la jeunesse vit souvent de façon intense le trau-  matisme de la guerre qui l'oblige à s'expatrier et à vivre une situation où elle  ' dans les domaines de compétence qui sont les leurs.
927    est souvent en butte à des tracasseries administratives et politiques. Devons-  nous continuer à embrigader des jeunes, innocents, dans des conflits qu'ils n'ont  pas provoqués ? Devons-nous continuer à embrigader des jeunes, pour des raisons  de fanatisme idéologique ou spirituel, dans des conflits qu'ils n'ont pas choisi  d'engager ou d'intensifier ? Non, Monsieur le Président, je crois que l'idéal de  l'Unesco auquel nous croyons, nous pousse à encadrer la jeunesse, à apprécier ses  initiatives positives en vue d'un réel épanouissement de nos jeunesses respec-  tives, jeunesses qui concourent donc, comme je le disais tout-à-l'heure, à  l'ensemble du bien-être de l'humanité. C'est pourquoi, Monsieur le Président, je  suis convaincu que la jeunesse est la catégorie sociale la plus sensible à la  paix et à la tranquillité et qu'elle aspire à en jouir.
14.13 Aussi, Monsieur le Président, vais-je formuler le souhait que soient  mises en oeuvre, dans le cadre de l'Unesco, les résolutions sur le rôle de la  jeunesse, notamment les résolutions 3/05 et 3/06 adoptées à la vingt et unième  session, ainsi que la résolution 22 CI22 adoptée à la vingt-deuxième session de  la Conférence générale, les dispositions du deuxième Plan à moyen terme
(1984-1989) contenues dans la Note sur les orientations dans le domaine de la  jeunesse (document 22 C/4), et les recommandations du rapport final du Congrès  mondial sur la jeunesse organisé à Barcelone, du 8 au 15 juillet 1985, ainsi que  les dispositions de la Déclaration de Barcelone, et enfin les activités spéci-  fiques prévues dans le document 23 C/5, en mettant l'accent sur la formation, la  recherche et la participation aux décisions ainsi qu'au processus du dévclop-  pement scientifique et technologique.
14.14 Ce faisant, l'Unesco et les Etats membres auront contribué à ouvrir aux  jeunes des possibilités de plus en plus larges de participer activement à tous  les aspects de la vie sociale, économique, politique, éducative et culturelle de  la société dont ils font partie. Une telle action nécessite la coopération tant  nationale et sous-régionale, que régionale et internationale, par l'intermédiaire  des Ecoles associées, des Clubs Unesco et des organisations non gouvernementales  compétentes. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
15. Le PRESIDENT :  l'Académie de l'Irak, à prendre la parole.  Je remercie le professeur Blagué et j'invite le Dr Al-Bassam, membre de
(16.1) Mr AL-BASSAM (Iraq) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my excuse for speaking on youth despite  my advanced age is the fact that throughout my life I have maintained constant contact  with young people, studied their problems, and cultivated an interest in their  affairs. Over the years, I have taught successive classes of young people, making many  friendships of which I am proud. In the next few minutes I propose to discuss the con-  ditions and problems of Arab youth. The examples I mention will be by way of illus-  tration only. If I cite a disproportionate number of examples from Iraq, it is because  of my long experience and particular affiliation with that country.
(16.2) It is generally recognized that youth is a time of great vitality, receptive-  ness to experience and eagerness for its acquisition. It is a period of ambition,  devotion to high ideals and all the cheerfulness and optimism in life that accompany  that attitude. On the other hand, it is also a period of exposure to painful encoun-  ters with reality, with all its deficiencies and shortcomings, and this frequently  engenders feelings of disappointment and depression, and even perhaps a measure of  pessimism and alienation. When these two types of feelings and attitudes meet they  produce contradictions at the personal and the social levels. Young people are also a  part of society; their conditions are influenced by the conditions of the societies in  which they live and can be understood only in the broader context of that society's  dynamics and characteristics, which vary with time and place. These two observations  argue in favour of a psychological and social approach to the treatment of the con-  ditions and problems of youth. This approach was affirmed in document 23 C/23, which  contained data on the commendable youth programmes carried out by the Secretariat,  particularly during the International Year that was devoted to the growth of the  world. Consequently, it is this approach that I myself will adopt.
(16.3) Perhaps the most general statement that can be made about Arab youth today is  that they are being confronted with serious cultural challenges, while at the same  time they are becoming aware of the enormous potential of their nation. As their  awareness of those challenges and potential grows, so does their realization of the  communal and national responsibilities which are incumbent upon them. The challenges  include backwardness, disunity, Zionism and imperialism, while the potential includes  an ancient and deep-rooted culture (for the Arab world is the cradle of ancient civil-  izations and the birthplace of the monotheistic religions), an ideology (for Islam is  a comprehensive doctrine that relates man to the One God, strikes a balance between  the needs of the body and those of the spirit, encourages the quest for knowledge and  the exercise of the intellect and espouses brotherhood and tolerance among all men)  and the human and material resources of the Arab world and its strategic location at  the crossroads of continents and cultures. The problem of how to use that potential to  meet the challenges is one of the major concerns of Arab youth, and lends their  efforts a considerable measure of energy, perseverance and militancy. This situation  is similar to the one observed by the English philospher Bertrand Russell when he  visited China during the First World War and saw how the young people of that country  were concerned with the preoccupations and problems of their society, and the issues  of national liberation and independence (these young people may well have been the  vanguard and precursors of the great Chinese revolution of the 1940s). Russell com-  pared the situation of Chinese youth with the feelings of frustration of young people  in an industrial society who, seeing their hopes for universal freedom and justice
930    dwindling, begun to turn to an exclusive concern with their personal problems. Accord-  ingly that wise philospher concluded in his book, 'The Conquest of Happiness', that  involvement with the problems of social reform was a sure cure for the crises of  youth.
(16.4) I should now like to summarize some of my impressions of Arab youth in the  areas of education, culture and politics. The situation is generally positive, though  problems do exist. In the field of education, the most striking phenomenon is the  insistent demand for higher education and the educational policy response to that  demand, which has been substantial in quantitative terms. At the end of the Second  World War there were only six universities in the Arab world, three of which were  foreign. By the end of the 1970s, that number had grown to about 60, all the additions  being entirely national. Student enrolment increased at an annual rate of over 10 per  cent in the 1960s and the 1970s. In some countries, institutions of higher education  have been attended by 20 per cent of young people between the ages of 20 and 24 - a  figure comparable to that obtaining in many industrialized countries of Western Europe  and in the Soviet Union. In many Arab countries this proportion ranges between 10 and
15 per cent; in Iraq, following the establishment of compulsory primary education in
1978 and the massive influx of pupils into secondary schools, which have achieved an  overall attendance ratio of 50 per cent, postsecondary enrolment is expected to reach
25 per cent within the coming decade. This increase in numbers has been accompanied by  the appearance of higher education institutions distributed throughout the various  regions and the establishment of a number of specialized technical universities (as in  Iraq and Saudi Arabia), institutes of applied technology (as in Iraq and Algeria) and  junior colleges on the lines of community college (as in Jordan). However, most  students are enrolled in theoretical studies and in the human and social sciences -  fields which do not match the needs of development. Large numbers of Arab students  study abroad. These students study a variety of subjects in different Arab and social-  ist countries, and this variety has begun to be reflected in the composition of the  teaching staffs of universities.
(16.5) Job opportunities are available for many university graduates in the Arab  countries because of the demands of development and development projects; many o€  these graduates, however, work in service fields such as education, health and admin-  istration. Production facilities are still in need of more senior and middle-level  specialists and technicians. In accordance with its socialist principles, the Govern-  ment of Iraq guarantees the employment of graduates of both sexes in the institutions  of the public sector. Consequently, there is work for everyone who needs it. In  addition, there is a good deal of labour force mobility at all levels among the  various Arab countries, and this phenomenon extends to, inter alia, workers in public  education, particularly at the higher education level. This is greatly advantageous to  young people. Young people also benefit from the opportunity for students to move from  one university to another in many countries.
(16.6) One of the most serious cultural problems facing youth is culture shock,  which is manifested more specifically in linguistic and cultural dualism; this is par-  ticularly the case in the Arab Maghrib. During the imperialist era, the language of  the imperial power was the main language used by educational institutions at all  levels. During the past few decades, however, the process of Arabization has been pro-  gressively extended, and it is now Arabic that is used in most primary and secondary  schools. Institutions of higher education have not yet adopted Arabic as the language  of teaching in all departments. This situation, however, is satisfactory in the Arab  East, where the Syrian University - later the University of Damascus - pioneered the  process of Arabization, beginning from its very foundation in the 1920s. Of course,  linguistic and cultural dualism have adverse consequences: they engender problems in  personality development, foster divided loyalties and weaken the sense of cultural  identity. Arabization does not mean that foreign languages should be suppressed; it  means, rather that they should occupy their proper place as means of access to other  cultures of the world and to the mainstream of scientific research. It is generally  recognized that the modern communication media are a two-edged sword: they provide the  means of keeping abreast of the development of knowledge and gaining access to other  cultures, but at the same time they propagate models of corrupt and debilitated  cultures and ways of life. The youth of some Arab countries are exposed to these  problems: they have been influenced by consumerism and encouraged to pursue decadent  and sensual pleasures. However, with some rare exceptions Arab youth have generally  escaped the scourge of drug abuse. Iraq, in particular, has traditionally been spared  this vice and the evils associated with it, and deterrent legislation has been  recently enacted to shore up the defences against it.
(16.7) As regards the political field, Arab youth has been in the forefront of  liberation and independence movements and the struggle against imperialism. They  played a prominent role in the nationalist movements of Egypt, Iraq, Palestine and  elsewhere and in the Algerian war of liberation, in which over a million martyrs  perished. Young people were the mainstay of the revolutions that took place in Egypt,  Iraq and elsewhere. The youth of Iraq have participated in development and have fought  as volunteers with valour and competence in the defence of their country's borders:
931    wielding the tools of construction in one hand and the weapons of defence in the  other, they are sustaining their country's sovereignty, national will and dignity and  consolidating the foundations of peace. Measures on behalf of youth have occupied the  country's highest political authorities. Some Arab countries have established minis-  tries of youth, as in Egypt and Iraq, or high-level national councils, as in Saudi  Arabia. Iraq has youth organizations which co-operate with student and other groups in  order to consolidate the youth movement and provide opportunities for young people to  participate effectively in social activities. Women occupy an important place in these  organizations, and there is a women's federation for all Iraq. The status of women has  improved and women have been given the opportunity to participate in a variety of  social activities in the community. At the initial levels of education equality  between the sexes has already been achieved, among pupils and teachers alike.
(16.8) The major issue which occupies the conscience of Arab youth, as well as the  Arab people in general, is the Palestine problem, whose burden of sorrow is un-  surpassed by that of any of the tragedies of the twentieth century. While other  peoples were obtaining their freedom and enjoying their right to self-determination  and control over their own destinies, the Arab people of Palestine were expelled from  their country, their homes and possessions were plundered, and they are now being sub-  jected to a persistent attempt to destroy their personality and national identity; all  sorts of harassment, including torture, are being inflicted upon them so that the  Zionist movement can establish settlements in their homeland end pursue its expansion  through the successive acts of aggression which it has perpetrated before the eyes of  the whole world. These are some of the major challenges confronting Arab young people  as they continue their struggle for truth, freedom and justice. Sooner or later,  victory will be theirs, for despite these various problems and challenges, they are  certainly equal to the task of overcoming them. Thank you, Mr President.
17. Le PRESIDENT :  président de l'Union internationale des étudiants à prendre la parole.
18.1 Mr VALCHEV (International Union of Students):  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the International Union  of Students, a non-governmental organization uniting national unions of students  From more than 110 countries, I would like to thank you for givinq me the oppor-  tunity to take the floor on an issue of the utmost importance - the problems of  the young generation of our planet.
18.2 May I take this opportunity, Mr President, to congratulate you once  again on your election and to express our confidence that, under your leadership,  the Conference will accomplish its noble tasks. I should like also to pay tribute  to the Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'BOW, and the Secretariat for ensuring  adequate preparations for this Conference, as well as to our host, Bulgaria, for  providing us with excellent opportunities for work.
18.3 Mr President, distinguished delegates, the International Union of  Students highly appreciates the attention and effort directed by Unesco towards  the problems of youth, especially in the field of education, science and culture.  It is very often said, Mr President, that young people are the future of our  planet. We, the students, as part and parcel of the young generation, are deeply  concerned about our future. Because it is patently clear that, the problems  related to science, culture, education, social situations, etc. can be tackled  only if one prerequisite is met - and this is peace.
18.4 In this respect, we express our deep concern with the plans to escalate  the arms race by extending it even to outer space. Billions and billions of  dollars are spent every day on armaments, which could be used for the development  of science for buying books and for eliminating illitercy or malnutrition.  'Books, not bombs' is a campaign waged successfully by the union which I repre-  sent. Peace or war, Mr President, this is the Hamlet question of the present age.  And from this high rostrum I want to assure you that we students want neither  'star' nor earth wars; star and earth peace is what we are striving for.
18.5 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this year is our year - declared by  the United Nations as the International Year of Youth under the slogan 'Partici-  pation, Development, Peace'. This fact demonstrates the utmost importance that  the United Nations and its bodies attach to the problems of the young generation.  This Year was rich in events marking this occasion. So was the scale of activi-  ties of the International Union of Students for this period.
18.6 1 would like to draw your attention, among other events, to the 12th  World Festival of Youth and Students, held at the end of July and the beginning  of August in Moscow. More than 20,000 young people, representing more than 3,000  youth and student Organizations and movements of different political, ideological  or religious beliefs, gathered together to discuss in an open and democratic  Je remercie le Dr Al-Bassam et j 'invite M. Vesselin Valchev, vice-
932    atmosphere issues of common interest. This foremost event in International Youth  Year clearly shows that concrete follow-up is needed. In this connection, I would  like to mention, Mr President, that International Youth Year is a process, that  it should not stop with the end of this year. In this respect, we see a good  opportunity in the International Year of Peace, proclaimed by the United Nations  for 1986.
18.7 Mr President, distinguished delegates, in conclusion I want once again  to express my high appreciation of the holding of a special session devoted to  the problems of the young generation in the framework of the twenty-third session  of the General Conference of Unesco. I would like to be more optimistic than some  of the previous speakers as regards possibilities of tackling and solving the  problems of youth. Examples are at hand. We do hope that Unesco will preserve its  leading role in this regard. Thank you, Mr President, thank you, ladies and  gentlemen, for your attention.
19. Le PRESIDENT :  Sandnes de la Commission nationale de la Norvège pour l'Unesco.
20.1 Mrs SANDNES (Norway) :  Je remercie M. Vesselin Valchev et je donne la parole à Mme Elise  Thank you, Mr President.  'Young people represent a substantial and ever-growing section of the  world population and have an increasingly important role to play in the  solution of the major problems facing mankind, and it is therefore  necessary to offer them ever broader opportunities of playing an active  part in all aspects of the social, economic, political, educational and  cultural life of the society to which they belong'.  These words are very well formulated; and they are indeed very true. I just  quoted 22 C/Resolution 22 from the last General Conference. I am very pleased to  find such well formulated statements in Unesco documents underlining the import-  ant role of youth in today's society. I am very pleased that we are dealing with  the youth question here today. But if you ask us, youth from different parts of  the world, if we really play this active part in all aspects of the social,  economic, political, educational and cultural life of the society we belong to, I  am afraid most of us would answer no!
20.2 A leading Swedish researcher in the youth field, Benny Henriksson,  carried out in 1981 a piece of research called 'Not for sale'. He names the  period between childhood and adulthood as a waiting period - a non-participating  period. Youth is not given a role in society, except the role of consumers, con-  sumers either of education or of goods. We are reduced to a passive spectator's  role vis-a-vis society. This becomes really serious when we know that the world  is in crisis; not only in economic crisis, but also social, moral and ideologi-  cal. It is a period of rapid changes in industrialized countries as well as in  developing countries. In such a period we need new ideas, we need courage and  willingness to act and be daring, to find new ways. In such a period, however, we  find that 'the grown-up world' will not give youth the opportunity to use their  fantasy, new ideas, courage and willingness to act.
20.3 Youth unemployment is increasing. Education is still not relevant to the  needs of the future socity. The new cultural expressions of youth are not under-  stood by established society. The international political climate prevents an  open exchange and dialogue among young people across ideological barriers. Never-  theless, the young try to cross boundaries and work out new concepts and new ways  of living. But too often we do not get the necessary support from the 'grown-up  world'.
20.4 What can be done? We need to be concrete when we talk about youth par-  ticipation. We can and must start in the local communities, for instance by  launching projects with self-management for young people. Pupil and student  councils can be established in schools and all other educational institutions -  councils that are involved also in drawing up curricula and in the management of  the schools. Also in out-of-school activities youth must play an active role and  take part in the planning and decision-making process. Here youth and sport  organizations may play an important, role. In the Nordic countries representatives  from youth organizations are elected members of local authorities in questions  concerning out-of-school activities. At national level youth organizations in all  the Nordic countries have established youth councils. These are boâies that  advise government in all questions concerning youth policy, not only at national  level but also at the international level.
20.5 I am here as a representative of the Norwegian Youth Council and, as  such, also a member of the Norwegian National Commission for Unesco and a member
933    of its Board. This is one positive example of how youth can be directly involved  on an equal basis in a decision-making body. For this reason there exists good  co-operation between Unesco and youth organizations in Norway. This year we are  arranging a seminar on youth exchange where we expect a handbook on youth  exchanges to be part of the result.
20.6 Only a very few countries have youth representatives in their National  Commissions for Unesco, or send youth representatives to the General Assembly of  the United Nations. Many more countries ought to seize the opportunity of Inter-  national Youth Year and include youth representatives in Unesco. Youth represen-  tatives should also be included in the delegations to the United Nations General  Assembly and other intergovernmental organizations when youth questions are on  the agenda. This is your responsibility! Are you willing to do something about  it?
20.7 But remember, be aware that it is necessary to include youth as equal  partners. It is not enough just to consult young people now and then. You must be  willing to respect us as equal partners on our own conditions. In Unesco we have  collective consultations, whenever .Unesco feels it necessary to consult youth.  But youth organizations as such do not feel that we are made responsible or  really involved in the programme-planning and policy of Unesco. And because of  that, we may lose interest in Unesco. This is a real danger today!
20.8 Therefore it is necessary to clarify on which basis an equal co-  operation between Unesco and the youth organizations can be established. A new  initiative must be taken to improve the Unesco collective consultations.  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, International Youth Year is coming to an end.  This year we have celebrated youth. Now the time has come to act. All the Member  States, as well as Unesco, must do something - concrete activities not only for,  but also with and by young people. Thank you for your attention.
21. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie Mme Elise Sandnes et je donne la parole à Mme Hildegard  Kiermeier, secrétaire générale de la Commission nationale de la République  démocratique allemande pour l'Unesco.
22.1 Mrs KIERMEIER (German Democratic Republic):  Mr President, distinguished delegates, the year 1985 is marked by anni-  versaries of historic events such as the fortieth anniversary of the end of the  Second World War and of the creation of the United Nations Organization, which  have decisively shaped the character of today's world. On the occasion of the  fortieth anniversary of the end of the Second World War, the youth of our country  honoured in powerful manifestations the victims among all those involved in the  anti-Hitler coalition and reaffirmed their will to do everything possible to  ensure that never again can war emanate from German soil.
22.2 International Youth Year ranks highly among the occasions of 1985, since  it has encouraged the aspirations of young people, under the motto 'partici-  pation, development, peace', to get to know each other better, to understand each  other better and to reflect on the manner in which the world youth can contribute  towards solving the most urgent problems of our time.
22.3 It was in this sense that from the platform of the Twelfth World Festi-  val of Youth and Students in Moscow, young people from all parts of the world  manifested their joint determination to work actively for the supreme human  right, the right to live in peace, irrespective of different political, philo-  sophical or religious views. To endorse this commitment to peace and social pro-  gress by young people is part of the responsibility of all Member States and is  fully consistent with the purpose of International Youth Year.
22.4 Unesco is making a significant contribution towards achieving the goals  related to International Youth Year. This is also expressed in the report by the  Director-General on Unesco activities in implementation of the resolution on  Unesco's role in improving the situation of young people, and its contribution to  International Youth Year, which was adopted by the General Conference at its  twenty-second session.
22.5 Unesco. projects which have been especially appreciated in our country  are those which have the aim of educating the young generation for peace and  international understanding, including round-tables on youth problems in the  world of the 1980s with special reference to the aspects of education and work  and the implementation of their political, economic, social and cultural rights,  and the organization of a first week of physical fitness and sport.
22.6 A national commission set up in the German Democratic Republic on the  occasion of International Youth Year and composed of representatives of State and
26  social institutions, including the youth organization and the German Democratic  Republic Commission for Unesco, is furthering the participation of young artists,  educational experts and scientists in a great number of specific Unesco activi-  ties, such as the competition for young architects, 'Tomorrow's Habitat', the  photo exhibition 'Youth in the Eighties' and above all participation in the World  Youth Congress in Barcelona, which was a highlight of the Organization's activi-  ties in International Youth Year.
22.7 The outstanding national event in International Youth Year has been the
12th parliament of the Free German Youth Organization held in May, with the par-  ticipation of 3,500 delegates and guests from 109 countries. Throughout the meet-  ing, the desire for peace and an end to armament was again and again expressed in  common consent. During the congress, members of the government and other person-  alities of the German Democratic Republic had talks with delegates on the tasks  and results of youth policy in the country. Using its right to submit proposals  for the development of socialist society, the youth league suggested a number of  social measures at its parliament session, all of which met with the unreserved  approval of the government. As a result of this meeting, a number of measures  became effective for the young people in our country; I can point out here only  one of them because of the lack of time: between 1987 and 1989, a House of Youth  is to be built in Berlin, the capital of the German Democratic Republic, to serve  as a social centre for the young generation.
22.8 Mr President, it is in keeping with the basic position of the German  Democratic Republic to encourage an all-round development of the young generation  by creating all the social conditions necessary therefor. One of the first acts  to be passed in the German Democratic Republic was the Youth Act, which guaran-  tees the young generation the exercise of their basic rights in our society.
22.9 To place confidence in young people and to assign high responsibility to  them has become the basic concern of our State. A particularly impressive example  of the success of the national youth policy is the parliamentary group of the  Free German Youth Organization - which includes young people aged from 18 to 25  who represent the interests of our youth as deputies in the supreme people's  representation of the German Democratic Republic, the People's Chamber. The  principle of 'Education for all' is with us a reality. All young people are  guaranteed theoretical and practical training in their future vocation and they  are also guaranteed a job.
22.10 Mr President, distinguished delegates, within the framework of our youth  policy the Government of the German Democratic Republic attaches great importance  to questions relating to education of young people for peace, international  understanding, respect for human rights and the rights of peoples, and for soli-  darity with the suppressed and those deprived of their rights all over the world  and those who are fighting for their freedom, independence and social progress.
22.11 During the events of International Youth Year, it has become obvious  that young people in many parts of the world have to live under complicated con-  ditions marked by colonialism, neo-colonialism, exploitation, racism, illiteracy,  apartheid and unemployment. Great efforts are needed to overcome this situation.  Therefore we deem it necessary that Unesco uses the growing international atten-  tion to youth problems to do everything possible under its competence to keep the  goals of International Youth Year, 'participation, development, peace', in the  focus of international and national activities also in the future.
22.12 With regard to Unesco's activities during the next biennium, the proj-  ects proposed in document 23 C/5, such as the promotion of the training and the  further training of young people, their inclusion in cultural and scientific co-  operation, studies on aspects relating to the ,development of youth, and the  enhancement of the exchange of information, form a solid basis for a start. We  think that in this context the Organization should, first of all, focus its  efforts on measures to further the prupose of International Year of Peace, on the  intensification of conceptual activities in the field of youth research and on  rendering assistance to Member States in the elaboration of a youth policy in  implementation of the recommendations adopted by the World Congress on Youth.
22.13 To that end, the delegation of the German Democratic Republic is advo-  cating in Commission V the adoption of a draft resolution (23 C/COM.V/DR.G) pre-  pared by a working group which was headed by the Socialist Republic of Romania  and in which the German Democratic Republic also participated. Thank you for your  attention.
23. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie Mme Hildegard Kiermeier et je donne la parole à S. Exc.  M. Alejandro Lorenzo Y Losada, ministre conseiller de l'Ambassade d'Uruguay  en Bulgarie et chef adjoint de la délégation de l'Uruguay.
(24.1) Mr LORENZO Y LOSADA (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, distinguished delegates, from the time of its accession to  independence, Uruguay has devoted a great deal of attention to the problems of young  people and their education. In the middle of the last century, a great man and a great  educator, Jose Pedro Varela, came to prominence in the country's intellectual life. He  was a man who devoted his life to education, and, more particularly, to the education  of young people. He inspired the reform of the country's curricula and was a precursor  of generations of intellectuals in Uruguay. Regardless of the various governments that  have controlled the country's destinies, the whole of Uruguayan society has felt that  the problems and training of the young, the new and vital spirit of our people, are  its own problems and a major theme of its development, for the rising generations, at  later stages in their lives, will be responsible for guiding our country's destiny.
(24.2) For this reason, Uruguay and the successive democratic governments that have  held power during the country's life as an independent country, have concentrated, as  a matter of priority, on educating its inhabitants and making them literate. Its edu-  cational programmes have obviously centred mainly on the youngest sectors of society,  so as to build up from that foundation a cultured society, thoroughly familiarized,  through education, science, literature and history, with all the national, regional  and world problems, and consequently more fully acquainted with its own people and  with the civilization in which it has had to live.
(24.3) That educational objective was achieved by Uruguay's democratic governments  with great speed and efficiency, so enabling the entire country to set off on its  journey through the twentieth century with a citizenry whose high standard of edu-  cation was internationally acknowledged. To attain that goal, the democratic govern-  ments that ruled the country up to 1973 assigned a large proportion of the national  budget - sometimes almost 50 per cent - to education,
(24.4) As early as the end of the last century, free and compulsory state schools  were established in Uruguay, and by the beginning of the present century the education  system was entirely secular. Education is free of charge in Uruguay at all levels,  from the time a child starts school at the age of 5 right through to the end of school  and preparation for university, and then on to graduation from university with a  degree.
(24.5) Compulsory industrial education has also been established in Uruguay and is  provided by the Universidad del Trabajo (Labour University) of Uruguay. Free, compul-  sory, non-denominational public schooling is the basic principle of education in  Uruguay, giving young people the opportunity to receive education at all levels on  equal terms with one another. In addition, special emphasis is placed on freedom of  teaching and academic liberty, so that the student may freely develop his or her own  personality and thinking.
(24.6) This policy, steadily applied over the years, enabled Uruguay to achieve one  of the lowest illiteracy rates in Latin America, and the country's younger generations  to receive an excellent cultural training, both in the Latin American context and from  the international standpoint.
(24.7) Unfortunately, a disastrous period in our country's history began in 1973 and  lasted until 1985. A military dictatorship was set up in Uruguay and throughout its  rule the national budget for education was drastically reduced. A free-market economy  was set up and rigid control was imposed on the freedom of information, affecting both  the written press, daily newspapers, books and publications, and radio and television.  Newspaper circulation dropped to less than half, despite the increase in the  population.
(24.8) Both the publication and the import of books were severely affected; pub-  lished works by thinkers, philosophers and writers that were successful in other  countries but whose ideas and thoughts were not to the taste of the military govern-  ment were not allowed into the country. The economic crisis affected the country's  . economic and social structure. That social structure comprised a very large middle  class with a high standard of living and great purchasing power, but it was kept  rigorously in check so that job opportunities and expectations were greatly reduced,  leading Uruguayans to emigrate. In point of fact, young people were the most severely  affected section of society; as there were no opportunities in their own country, they  were obliged to leave it, abandoning their families, interrupting their studies,  relinquishing their hopes and trying to make a new career for themselves in other  lands and other countries, which generously welcomed them and whose representatives  are here in this hall today. Uruguay will be eternally grateful to them for what they  did.
(24.9) These young people began a new life abroad but it was obviously not the one  that they wanted. Who does not wish, in fact, to be educated and to develop his per-  sonality in the country of his birth, and to contribute his efforts, his work, his  experience and his successes to that country? The political and social problem that  existed in Uruguay during the period from 1973 to 1985 resulted in children's dropping  out of school at an early age. New school buildings were not erected so that the  shortage of classrooms was exacerbated; those that survived deteriorated because of  the scarcity of resources, and the entire educational system virtually ground to a  halt.
(24.10) Following a political process of which you are all aware, Uruguay has been  reborn to democratic life. Very recently, on 1 March of this year, a new democratic  government came to power and is grappling with all the problems I have mentioned. In  (our determination to solve them, persuaded that the greatest wealth a country can  possess is its own people, its youth full of life, strength and initiative, and con-  vinced that this youth must be provided with the means and weapons to ensure its own  development, the resources allocated to education are being increased in the national  budget. Curricula are being reformed, because education is a rich source of nutriment  for the mind, the capacity and the intellect. Modern education is being encouraged so  as to provide a sound cultural and vocational training.
(24.11) Faithful to its traditional international cultural policy, the Constitutional  Government of Uruguay is reviewing and pressing on with the cultural treaties con-  cluded with other countries and is signing new ones, in the conviction that cultural  exchanges with the various countries in the world will contribute to a more perfect  knowledge of the world and will enrich its own culture, placing it at the service of  the progress of the individual and of society itself.
(24.12) The Uruguayan Government, the society it rules and its political institutions  are convinced that young people should play an active part in all areas of national  life. To this end, it is encouraging their participation in all activities and, on  that subject, it should be pointed out that the University Law has been brought back  into force in Uruguay, giving students the opportunity to participate actively in  defining academic policy and in the formulation of their own programmes. University  elections by free and secret ballot were recently held, in which teachers and students  took an active part. It is now up to them to guide the destinies of our University and  our faculties.
(24.13) In the context of this policy for young people's development, Uruguay in co-  operation with ECLAC organized a seminar on youth policies this year, from 28 August  to 1 September, which was not only rewarding but made a great contribution on behalf  of young people everywhere.
(24.14) Our country is rounding off its activities for this year by hosting the  Congreso de las juventudes musicales latinoamericanas (Latin American Musical Youth  Congress), with Unesco's support. Obviously, all Uruguay's efforts, and those of other  countries in the world, to encourage and perfect young people's cultural and intel-  lectual development will have an even greater need of the collaboration of inter-  national organizations, and especially of this one, for undertaking further programmes  specifically designed for young people, their training, the fostering of their  creativity and their participation in the activities and efforts being made by govern-  ments and peoples that are striving after well-being and peace. Thank you,  Mr President.
25. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie S. Exc. M. Alejandro Lorenzo y Locada et je donne la parole  à S. Exc. Mme Margaret Alwa, ministre d'Etat à la jeunesse, aux sports et à la  condition de la feme de l'Inde.
26.1 Mrs ALWA (India) :  Mr President, distinguished delegates, this is a great occasion for all  of us, assembled here, to pledge our central concern for the youth of the world.  The United Nations Organization has rendered a signal service in naming 1985 as  the International Year of Youth, and it is deeply gratifying that Unesco has  underlined its commitment to the same cause by initiating and financing important  events for young people all over the world. I should like to congratulate, in  particular, the Director-General for taking personal care to ensure that the  International Year of Youth is celebrated adequately and fittingly under the  auspices of Unesco. Let me also compliment the Executive Board for taking the  decision to devote this full day to discussion of the problems of youth.
26.2 Mr President, youth is the central propelling force of the future; a  future that promises to be radically different, and indeed better, with regard to  both content and direction. Whether we acknowledge it or not, this future is in  the making, and contemporary youth is alive to it. The unrest of our young people  today therefore has a meaning, and their demands a significance. Their needs and  aspirations are a new dream calling for a new realization. We must respond with a  deep understanding.
26.3 In India, nearly two-thirds of the population are below the age of 30,  and about 60 per cent below the age of 25. This shows that India, although an  ancient country with a long history going back for more than 5,000 years, is  truly a young India. And we are obliged in our country to look upon our youth as  most central to all our national plans and developmental activities. As is common  with many developing countries, Indian youth faces the fear and threat of un-  employment, and the problems of poverty, injustice and ignorance. Our youthful  Prime Minister, Mr Rajiv Gandhi, has called on the members of his government to  work together to solve the problems of Indian youth as rapidly as possible. In  the recent reorganization of the Cabinet, he has placed the Department of Youth  as an integral part of the Ministry of Human Resource Development and obliged us  to integrate culture, education and sports in such a way that all of them sub-  serve the highest interests of our young people.
26.4 We have a number of schemes, designed to cater to the needs of young  people. Apart from 150 universities and 5,000 colleges providing more than three  million young men and women with a ,variety of courses in humanities, sciences,  technologies and fine arts, we have a scheme of youth centres for those who  remain outside the purview of formal education. This scheme, named after  Jawaharlal Nehru, is designed to co-ordinate youth activities, chiefly in rural  areas, so that young people may be encouraged to render social service, to learn  the art and science of self-employment and to develop an interest in sports,  physical education and cultural activities. We have been able to set up these  centres in more than 200 districts covering nearly half the rural population and  we propose to cover the rest of the country during the next five years. We also
939    have a scheme under which students can choose to be enrolled, on a voluntary  basis, in one of the two national agencies, one of which is called the National  Cadet Corps, and the other - the National Service Scheme, the main purpose of  which is to involve students in various programmes of social service and national  development. There is also a provision for young students to be enrolled in  national sports organizations, so that they can be involved specifically in  sporting events.
26.5 During the International Year of Youth, a number of programmes have been  conceived and executed in our country. we began the year with a two-day national  forum on 'Youth for unity and national integration', which was inaugurated by our  Prime Minister. We hosted an international seminar at Auroville in South India,  on the extremely important subject of 'Youth and human unity' in February. This  seminar was attended by delegates from 55 countries and made a fervant appeal to  make human unity a reality and ensure lasting peace and integral development  throughout the world. This was perhaps the first international celebration of  youth durïng the year. I wish to place on record our gratitude to Unesco for  having provided a part of the financial assistance for this seminar. Two other  major seminars were held in February on the theme, 'Role of voluntary organiz-  ations in the International Year of Youth'. An important consultation with young  people on the theme 'Youth for the twenty-first century' was held in New Delhi  recently. We have had numerous other activities which included the production of  films for youth; sports activities and competitions for young residents of tribal  areas; programmes of rural games and sports; arts and crafts exhibitions; youth  festivals; programmes for a better environment; youth rallies; national fitness  programmes and discussions on the role of youth in the International Year of  Youth. Our delegations participated in international meetings in Barcelona,  Japan, ßahrain and the USSR. We have recently announced a National Award scheme  for youth and a National Award for the best non-governmental youth organization.  These awards are to be given every year. We have adopted recentïy a National  Youth Symbol and a National Youth Song, selected through a contest among young  people. Two weeks from now, India will be hosting the Non-Aligned Movement's  Youth Cultural Festival, to coincide with the culmination of our regional inter-  university cultural festivals. We are holding in December the first Tribal Youth  Cultural Festival, which will be inaugurated by our President. A special coin and  a postal stamp to mark the International Year of Youth are also being released  next month.
26.6 In the field of education, we have recently set up the Indira Gandhi  National Open University, the main purpose of which is to widen the access of  young people to higher education. We are also in the process of formulating a new  National Educational Policy, the main thrust of which will be to enable young  people not only to develop their faculties, but also to integrate themselves more  readily into the world of work. A major feature of this policy will be to de-link  degrees from jobs, so that over-emphasis on degrees may be discouraged and the  meaningful pursuit of education emphasized.
26.7 We believe that the best service which we can render to young people  lies through the process of education itself. For education, whether formal or  non-formal, is the real centre of the preoccupations of young people, just as  young people, whether in school or outside the school, are the real centre of the  preoccupations of education. Young people live by the light that education can  provide, and the constant theme of education is to kindle the flame in the hearts  of the young. We believe, therefore, that youth activities should not be  restricted only to what are called extra-curricular activities. We need to create  an integrated and all-embracing system which harmoniously interrelates all youth  activities.
26.8 Mr President, young people in the villages of India are close to nature,  rugged, tough, hard working, and smiling. At heart, they are intimate with the  springs of hope and life. Their aspirations are healthy, and they have shown a  remarkable oapacity to absorb new methods of agriculture and the use of tech-  nology. Yet they need to be educated, and we have to fulfil our duty to them in  terms of equalization of opportunity and social justice. At the same time, we  need to be extremely careful to ensure that in the process of educating them we  do not rob them of their innate capacity for intimate communion and friendship  with their natural surroundings. Modernization of rural youth should not lead to  alienation from their villages and people.
26.9 In urban areas, as is common with many developing and developed  countries, we have in India an increasing influence of political competitiveness,  selfish commercialism, indulgence and idle cynicism. Music, literature, art and  wealth are not always being put to their proper use - but tend to be utilized for  producing cheap entertainment. Indulgence is being propagated and justified in  various ways, often dangerous. An enabling factor in our struggle against such  forces is the fact that the gaze of contemporary youth extends into the distant
940    horizons of the universe. Today's young people have witnessed the lsunching of  spaceships and the meeting of astronauts and cosmonauts in the open heavens of  endless expansion. Contemporary youth is internationalist and a lover of science.  To its inborn sense of idealism, the divisions of the world, political blocs of  humanity, discrimination based on religion, race and colour are unreal. It craves  for a world which is one and united in harmony.
26.10 It is by encouraging these tendencies among contemporary youth that we  can foster the courage and heroism to resist and overcome all those forces which  are obstructing the birth of a new world. A large number of young people all over  the world are consciously striving and struggling to prepare themselves for the  challenges of the future, which they know will make greater demands than have  been made upon the older generation. The twenty-first century is just round the  corner: and it is imperative for the leaders of nations to provide their young  people not only with the necessary encouragement but also with the equipment  required to educate, train and prepare themselves to shoulder their responsibili-  ties effectively and fruitfully.
26.11 Science and technology are important not only for national and global  progress but also for freedom itself. Jawaharlal Nehru repeatedly emphasized this  aspect, but he asked, 'Can we combine the progress of science and technology with  a progress of mind and spirit also?'. He therefore advised his people, 'Let us  then pursue our path to industrial progress with strength and vigour, and at the  same time remember that material riches without tolerance, compassion and wisdom  may well turn to dust and ashes'. This warning has never been more significant  than it is today.
26.12 Mr President, it is significant that the theme of the International Year  of Youth has been 'participation, development and peace'. We should underline  this theme, not only for the present year but also for years to come. In fact, it  would be extremely desirable that, just as there has been a decade for women, so  we should declare a decade for youth. And in the same way as we have many awards  for peace, science, literature and so on, I would suggest that we institute an  annual international award for work among youth to be given to a country, an  organization, whose work is adjudged as the best in the field.
26.13 I should also like to urge that special attention be paid to the devel-  opment of programmes for the creation of permanent sites dedicated to youth, to  ongoing education, to international understanding and to universal harmony. The  world needs today experiments of unusual dimensions, not only in quantitative but  also in qualitative terms. We need to encourage in different parts of the world  the coming together of young people from different cultural backgrounds, in order  to live together and to strive together, to educate and learn from each other,  and to establish a new, collective pattern of cultural interchange and harmoniz-  ation of various streams of culural aspirations. Jawaharlal Nehru had faith in  the young when he said in 1950, 'I think of the vast army of youth all over the  world, outwardly different in many ways. If you bring them together, they do not  think of differences amongst themselves. They are wiser than their fathers and  mothers ' .
26.14 Mr President, in the developing world, there is an increasing danger of  the invasion of ideas and value systems which could weaken the indigenous  cultural roots. This danger is increasing particularly with the revolution in the  media. A concerted effort is therefore required to ensure that our cultural iden-  tities remain intact even as we move towards modernity. We must realize that  young people have the greatest stake in peace. In all the international and  national seminars held during the past year, young people have insisted on the  cessation of conflicts and tension among nations. They have called for an  immediate ban on the arms race and progressive and complete disarmament. This has  been their response to the challenge of war, and we have to do our best to  support them in their continued struggle for peace.
26.15 Mr President, the message that emerges for young people at the end of  the International Year of Youth, is fourfold: first, learning to learn and learn-  ing to be; with an emphasis on widening, heightening and deepening consciousness.  Second, service to the nation, and service to humanity; with an emphasis on  national integration; education for all; care of the environment; transfer of  technology in the service of integrated rural development: and education for  international understanding and peace. Third, preparing to meet the challenges of  the twenty-first century, with an emphasis on synthesis of science and spiritu-  ality and creation of a new world order based on the principles of liberty,  equality and fraternity. And fourth, retaining the spirit of youth, with an  emphasis on adventure, heroism and discipline.
26.16 Mr President, the older generation. must shed its sense of superiority  and learn from the young, and at the same time young people must try to learn
941    what is good from the old. We have to combine the wisdom and spirituality of the  ancient with the material, scientific and technological advance of the modern. It  is only thus that we can prosper as a peaceful, dynamic and progressive society.  I submit that young people have a vital role to play in this regard, which they  must not only be allowed but encouraged to do.
26.17 Let me conclude by reiterating what Mr Rajiv Gandhi, our Prime Minister,  said at the inauguration of the International Year of Youth at New Delhi, 'It is  a time to get together. It is a time to build; youth must look towards the  twenty-first century, and build for the twenty-first century'.
27. Le PRESIDENT :  Ndam Njoya, ancien ministre de l'éducation du Cameroun, à prendre la parole.
28.1 M. NJOYA (Cameroun) :  Merci Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Pré-  sident du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs,  si les problèmes de la jeunesse revêtent des caractères spécifiques suivant les  pays et les régions du fait des réalités qui y dominent, on y discerne cependant  certaines constantes i presque partout l'exode rural, le chômage, la prostitu-  tion, la drogue, la délinquance. I1 s'agit là, avec les variations nationales et  régionales, d'autant de situations et de phénomènes des plus préoccupants. En  effet, cela porte atteinte à la pépinière de la société d'aujourd'hui et de  demain et crée de ce fait de graves obstacles à la réalisation de ia finalité qui  est celle de chaque être humain, de chaque société, à savoir l'épanouissement Qe  l'humain dans sa dimension positive et constructive, au profit de la consoli-  dation des fondements de la paix en chaque être humain, entre les hommes et entre  les sociétés humaines.
28.2 C'est bien là l'objectif fondamental de l'Unesco. Pour la réalisation de  cet objectif, l'Unesco n'a ménagé aucun effort ; nous pouvons nous en rendre  compte sur le terrain et cela apparaît dans le rapport sur les activités menées  par notre Organisation pour l'amélioration de la situation de la jeunesse et la  contribution à l'Année internationale de la jeunesse.
28.3 C o m e  l'ont rappelé le Directeur général de l'Unesco et le Président du  Congrès mondial sur la jeunesse, les problèmes de la jeunesse, dans leurs par-  ticularités suivant les pays et les grandes régions du monde, ont été analysés à  Barcelone. Aussi, en relevant la grande importance du Rapport final et de la  Déclaration de Barcelone qui constituent les documents de référence par excel-  lence n'allons-nous plus revenir sur l'énumération OU l'inventaire de ces  problèmes. Nous retiendrons plutôt que les problèmes de la jeunesse, plus  particulièrement en Afrique, continent en pleine mutation, soumis aux problèmes  les plus divers affectant la vie des hommes, apparaîtront toujours sous les  formes les plus diverses et les plus subtiles, obéissant en cela à la dynamique  de l'évolution de l'être humain et des sociétés face aux réalités du moment, face  à l'environnement.
28.4 I1 importe de saisir ce préalable pour mieux situer les contributions à  la solution des problèmes de la jeunesse. C'est ce que nous avons compris au  Cameroun et c'est à partir de cela que pourra être mieux cernée encore l'action à  mener et par l'Unesco et par les autres institutions.
28.5 Conscients de ce phénomène, nous réalisons désormais que l'une des  constantes, et pour les Etats et pour l'Unesco, sera de réfléchir sur les stra-  tégies d'action et de recherche, sur les cadres concrets et évolutifs à mettre en  place pour cerner et résoudre ces problèmes qui peuvent revêtir dans le temps et  l'espace des formes diverses. En effet, comme pour tous les problèmes intéressant  l'être humain, les problèmes de la jeunesse ne pourront jamais être résolus une  fois pour toutes. Face à cela, partant de l'expérience camerounaise, nous pouvons  envisager les actions et les réflexions de l'Unesco qui permettront que les  pr6blèmes que connaît la jeunesse ne constituent plus le lot commun, comme on  peut le vivre en Afrique et dans certaines régions du monde. L'objectif, la  finalité à atteindre, devront être la création des conditions voulues pour que  naisse une société appelée à connaître une évolution et un progrès continus sur  le plan spirituel - au sens large -, et de ce fait apte à secréter des ferments  de résistance et de lutte contre ce qui. limite l'expression de sa personnalité,  contre ce qui empêche l'épanouissement de l'humain dans l'homme, dans la société,  dans les relations entre les sociétés.
28.6 S'agissant de l'Afrique plus particulièrement, le problème est d'enlever  des esprits, des mentalités, les préjugés qui se sont accumulés et qui font que  se développe chez les jeunes, du fait même des adultes, cette pulsion permanente  vers l'imitation des exemples extérieurs, qui les porte à négliger les valeurs,  Je remercie S. Exc. Mme Margaret Alwa et j'invite S. Exc. M. Adamou
26  les richesses culturelles qui sont les leurs et qui pourraient être le. fondement  de toutes les formes d'entreprises, notamment de développement. D'où ce phénomène  de déracinement dont souffre la jeunesse.
28.7 Tel est un aspect des préoccupations vécues au Cameroun ; il pourrait  aider à clarifier les actions à mener par l'Unesco et par les autres institutions  nationales ou internationales.
28.8 Pour atteindre l'objectif qui est l'épanouissement de l'humain dans  l'homme et dans la société, agir sur et pour la Jeunesse et avec sa participation  constitue la voie royale. Voyons, à cet égard, 1 expérience vécue par le Cameroun  en ce qui concerne l'identification des problèmes de la jeunesse et la recherche  des solutions à ces problèmes. Cette expérience permet de mieux localiser les  niveaux d'action qui peuvent être, des plus intéressants pour l'Unesco.
28.9 Au Cameroun le problème fondamental est apparu comme étant celui de la  dynamique où inscrire la réflexion et l'action pour la jeunesse et aussi la  réflexion et l'action de la jeunesse concernée, pour se situer ainsi dans les  conditions les meilleures pour l'épanouissement de cette jeunesse et l'ouverture  de perspectives de paix grace à l'élimination des stéréotypes, les préjugés  apparaissant comme des freins et comme la source des maux dont souffrent les  jeunes .
28.10 Le système éducatif et les différentes filières complémentaires cons-  tituent des trames classiques sur lesquelles il est inutile d'insister, si ce  n'est pour relever l'existence d'un ministre de la jeunesse et des sports et d'un  service civique national de participation au développement et le grand concours  des structures privées à côté du système public, dans le cadre notamment du  Rassemblement démocratique du peuple Camerounais, s 'agissant de cerner et de  résoudre les problèmes de la jeunesse. Les trames sont là, et l'action de  l'Unesco, comme par le passé et plus que par le passé, peut aider à renforcer  leur complémentarité dans un pays et dans les relations entre deux ou plusieurs  Pays.
28.11 Mais plus qu'au niveau des structures, le problème se situe au niveau  des mentalités, des acteurs et des animateurs des structures - c'est-à-dire des  éducateurs eux-mêmes. Tout semble encore se passer dans certaines régions  d'Afrique comme si ces éducateurs ne se considéraient pas comme des acteurs  contribuant à faire la jonction entre modernité et tradition. On se plaît encore  à cultiver l'idée que les systèmes d'éducation et d'encadrement des jeunes sont  régis par le colonisateur ; et on les vit par conséquent comme étrangers. I1 se  développe ainsi une certaine paresse intellectuelle ; on refuse les initiatives  et les innovations dans le développement des mécanismes d'encadrement qui per-  mettraient de mieux identifier et résoudre les problèmes de la jeunesse. Des ré-  flexions et des recherches sur ces questions seraient utiles dans le cadre de la  nouvelle Ethique de l'éducation et de l'éducateur camerounais et dans le cadre de  la politique du Renouveau. Ce Renouveau pédagogique vise à créer la confiance  chez les éducateurs et chez tous ceux qui encadrent les jeunes, à les délivrer  des complexes nés du colonialisme, donc à aboutir à partir des éléments des  héritages anglophones et francophones qui se greffent sur le fond africain à un  produit camerounais, c'est-à-dire à un système où les jeunes ne connaissent pas  de déchirements. Les réflexions et les actions portent aussi à promouvoir la  décentralisation des centres de formation et d'encadrement de la jeunesse, pour  freiner l'exode rural qui est à l'origine de multiples autres problèmes pour la  jeunesse. Ici, d'ailleurs, l'Unesco a joué un rôle des plus fondamentaux en  contribuant à la création des instituts pédagogiques d'application rurale.
28.12 Autre dimension importante des actions concrètes menées au Cameroun : la  préparation et l'association des jeunes à l'identification et à la solution de  leurs problèmes. L'option est prise pour la responsabilisation dès le jeune âge ;  la responsabilisation et la moralisation se développent tant au niveau des  actions concrètes qu'au niveau des réflexions et des recherches théoriques qui  sont menées pour les jeunes et par les jeunes. Ainsi, des actions concrètes sont  menées grâce aux coopératives et aux associations et clubs pour diverses sortes  de prestations matérielles relatives au développement économique, social ou  culturel comme en témoignent les travaux qu'effectue la jeunesse pour la lutte  contre la sécheresse dans le Sahel en participant aux plantations d'arbres dans  la partie nord du pays.
28.13 Les réflexions et recherches théoriques, individuelles ou collectives,  sont encouragées à différents niveaux (école, université, hors de l'école...).  C'est ainsi que par exemple l'année dernière la Fédération nationale des clubs  Unesco a organisé une semaine culturelle ponctuée de tables rondes et de con-  férences dont l'un des thèmes était : "La diplomatie africaine : l'Afrique des  conflits". Les jeunes se sont préoccupés et- se préoccupent de la nécessité où  nous sommes d'arriver à formuler une nouvelle plate-forme de la diplomatie
943    africaine. Cette année-ci, le thème de réflexion a été : "La jeunesse et le  ponce-pilatisme". Les jeunes posaient ainsi le problème de la responsabilité et  de leur responsabilisation dans la société. Nous ne pourrons pas ne pas relever  la grande préoccupation des jeunes camerounais face au racisme et à l'apartheid,  et .l'organisation de manifestations de toute nature contre ce fléau.
28.14 Dans les actions concrètes, matérielles, comme dans la réflexion  théorique, il manque souvent aux jeunes les moyens de s'exprimer concrètement sur  le terrain. Sur le plan local et en Afrique plus particulièrement, le problème  de la publication des oeuvres demeure. Le mécénat et la consécration locale des  créations de tous genres sont encore à encourager ; et là, l'Unesco peut jouer un  rôle des plus déterminants pour l'Afrique et limiter cette profonde tendance  qu'ont les créateurs africains à attendre que la reconnaissance leur vienne de  l'extérieur.
28.15 Un ,autre point fort important, quant aux actions concrètes, est celui  qui a trait aux travaux et aux actions pour la consolidation de l'identité  culturelle camerounaise. Les jeunes ont été intimement associés à ces efforts qui  ont abouti cette année à un colloque dont les conclusions marquent le refus de la  dimension agressive qui a souvent caractérisé la création et la consolidation de  certaines identités nationales. Les diversités ethniques et les héritages an-  glophones et francophones qui se retrouvent dans la construction de l'identité  culturelle camerounaise font du Cameroun un champ expérimental fort intéressant  en ce qui concerne le rapprochement entre les peuples. Les jeunes Camerounais ont  choisi de vivre dans cette dynamique de rapprochement. Pour l'Afrique cela revêt  une importance particulière car cela pousse à tenir compte des principes uni-  versalistes et à orienter systématiquement les générations futures vers la paix,  la coopération, le développement de la dimension généreuse de l'être humain, face  à cette autre dimension, celle-là négative, à savoir l'égoïsme.
28.16 C'est dire que le problème fondamental est d'arriver aux échanges  d'idées et au partage des connaissances, qui constituent une étape essentielle  vers la solution des problèmes de la jeunesse.
28.17 De cette expérience, on peut tirer aussi une autre leçon : l'Unesco peut  jouer un rôle fondamental, être 1 élément de liaison, le catalyseur. A cet effet,  les échanges entre les jeunes, les échanges de données d'expérience en ce qui  concerne les problèmes de la jeunesse doivent être développés tout comme les  mécanismes de formation à caractère multinational, plus particulièrement ceux qui  forment les jeunes appelés 5 oeuvrer au rapprochement entre les peuples. I1 est  aussi fondamental de développer la réflexion et la recherche au sein des éta-  blissements de formation pour faire vivre les valeurs contribuant à la perception  des problèmes communs et à la recherche de solutions communes. Permettre aux  jeunes d'évoluer dans une atmosphère propice à cela est fondamental. Dans le  contexte africain on pourra ainsi arriver à créer les conditions permettant aux  jeunes Africains de vivre et de prendre en main leurs valeurs culturelles au lieu  de les laisser se fossiliser dans les livres trop souvent écrits par des non  Africains. Ainsi pourra-t-on créer des bases solides sur lesquelles s'appuieront  les jeunes et ceux qui contribuent à la formation des jeunes. Cela est important  si l'on veut que naissent la confiance et la sérénité qui constituent des étapes  essentielles à l'identification et à la solution des problèmes de la jeunesse.
28.18 En conclusion, Monsieur le Président, nous réalisons qu'il faut appuyer  les actions entreprises par l'Unesco en vue de résoudre les problèmes de la  jeunesse et plus particulièrement, une réflexion pertinente et soutenue par M. le  Directeur général sur ces problèmes, car le Cameroun, comme les autres Etats  membres, s inscrit résolument dans cette perspective yui est celle de l'avenir.  I1 en appelle à la Conférence générale pour qu'elle s attache à mettre en place  les mécanismes voulus pour la concrétisation des résolutions et des recomman-  dations adoptées sur cette importante question. Je vous remercie.
29. Le PRESIDENT :  Tom, membre de la délégation du Soudan, à prendre la parole.  Je remercie S. Exc. M. Adamou Ndam Njoya et j'invite M. Mahdi Amin El
(30.1) Mr EL TOM (Sudan) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. The problems which confront the thousand million  young people of the world today vary widely, depending on their cultural and social  differences and the political systems of their countries. Despite this fact, however,  the problems are in some ways the same everywhere, because as a group, young people  represent a permanent connecting link, and it is they who are most sensitive to  changes in the society in which they live. They are the group in which change begins,  and it is they who are most strongly affected by the results of spiritual, social,  political and economic reforms.
(30.2) The view of youth as a negligible quantity has become progressively less ten-  able as young people have risen to assume their role in the changing world in which we  live. I need only point, in this regard, to the youth movements that were active in  the industrialized world at the end of the 1960s. Reference must also be made to the  role played by young people in national liberation movements in the Third World, and  to the many victories that have been won thanks to young people everywhere. The young  people of the world today are refuting.the allegation that they constitute a 'negli-  gible quantity' by campaigning for peace, by supporting the rights of peoples to free-  dom and human rights, by joining movements that may hear different names but are at  one in calling for a sounder relationship between nature and man, and by participating  in the struggle against racial discrimination and apartheid and the condemnation of  nuclear armament and every other project of destruction. The young people of the world  have lately concerted their efforts to fight hunger, thirst and drought in Africa,  collecting contributions, organizing festivals and singing their famous song, 'We are  the world, we are the children'. The participation of some of the leading performers  of the world produced an impressive response in the Sudan; for this auspicious event
946    united the youth of my country with the youth of the world. We hope that such happen-  ings will receive special attention in Unesco's youth programmes, as they provide a  stimulus to understanding and exchange among the young people of the world.
(30.3) Mr President, the youth of my country represent a combination of Islamic Arab  culture and traditional African culture. These two cultures have coexisted down  through the ages, influencing each other in a process of healthy interaction and com-  mingling. Throughout its modern history, my country has been spared the experience of  racial and ethnic bigotry. This has been conducive to the development of values and  ideals of which the Sudan can be proud and which express its authentic personality.  However, these values are now having to face sudden danger in the form of a many-  faceted cultural aggression from abroad; and the youth of Sudan, like their counter-  parts all over the Third World, are in need of protection from that aggression. Conse-  quently, we call upon Unesco to stand up against that aggression and to contain its  negative effects.
(30.4) Mr President, within a period of a mere 20 years, the youth of Sudan carried  out two cultural revolutions which sought to liberate the country from autocratic rule  and dictatorship and to restore freedom, democracy and peace to their country. Since  the recent revolution, the youth of Sudan have been engaged in the reconstruction of  their country. Recently a programme called 'We are the Sudan' and another programme  called 'We the Youth' have been organized. These programmes were conceived by young  people and executed in the context of a serious attempt to confront the problems of  hunger and desertification in the Sudan. At the present moment, young people are  organizing a festival called, 'Actors United' as another contribution in the field of  art, whose young organizers are attempting to enlist the theatre in the service of the  Sudan in the present democratic era. Moreover, since the popular revolution of April
1985, the youth movement is now free and untrammelled. Young people are organizing  cultural, social and political associations as healthy vehicles for absorbing the  effevescent energies of youth, particularly since the end of the period in which such  associations were organized by the State or by the former regime. Young people in my  country are now occupying important positions in Sudanese society, as they join party  and national political organizations.
(30.5) However, Mr President, the young people of my country are facing najor prob-  lems and are beset with anxiety and feeling of dissatisfaction. They are torn by con-  flicting sentiments and emotions because thousands of young people are being deprived  of their right to higher education as a result of inadequate resources. This year, for  example, while 90,000 students completed secondary school, only 5 per cent of these  have been able to find places at universities and other institutions of higher edu-  cation. Another 5 per cent or so have found places at universities in other Arab  countries or elsewhere, leaving 90 per cent of the country's qualified youth deprived  of the opportunity of pursuing higher education.
(30.6) Another problem, Mr President, is the large flow of Sudanese young people  from the countryside to the towns, where there is no work or shelter for them. Most of  these migrants belong to that group of young people who have been deprived of their  right to general and higher education. This is taking place at a time when the  countryside is in need of these young people to work in various areas of production  and socio-economic development. If young people are to remain in the countryside, how-  ever, and to play the role that it is appropriate for them to play there, the con-  ditions must be prepared and the means provided to encourage them to do this. They  should be provided wíth libraries and craft facilities, arts and sports training  centres. The establishment of Unesco Clubs for youth should be encouraged, and those  clubs should be furnished with cultural and sports facilities. In fact, these young  people should be provided with the means of production. Most important of all, how-  ever, channels of communication should be opened up between rural and urban youth and  between rural youth and the world at large.
(30.7) Mr President, despite all these difficulties and problems, the young people  of my country have not fallen prey to isolationism, but have remained in contact and  continued to interact with Arab and African youth in Palestine, Lebanon and South  Africa, they have continued to condemn racism, apartheid, imperialism, neo-imperialism  and settlement policies, and they have steadfastly opposed all malevolent efforts to  destroy the cultural identity of the peoples of South Africa and Palestine and other  peoples of the world. Furthermore, the young people of my country are caught up, along  with the youth of the rest of the world, in the climate of fear generated by the pros-  pect of star wars, wars waged by artificial satellites, atomic war and all the other  types of war that are incompatible with the aspirations of youth for a prosperous  world characterized by peace, security and freedom.
(30.8) Mr President, the young people of my country and the world look to Unesco and  its programmes and leadership to attain these goals, for of all the organizations of  the United Nations system, it is Unesco whose fields of competence make it the heart  and focus of action on behalf of education for peace and Understanding, science for  development and progress, information for communication, the dissemination of valid
947    messages, and culture as the basis of all constructive human action. Mr President, the  general thrust of all Unesco's programmes within these fields has my country's  approval. Our view is that the aim of Unesco's major programmes is to set young people  on the right path and offer them an opportunity to play their true role. We are in  favour of the co-ordination of youth programmes along the lines of the co-ordination  of programmes related to women. We would also like to see established in the near  future a major programme for youth alongside the other major programmes. Mr President,  the youth of Sudan participated in the World Congress on Youth organized by Unesco in  Barcelona. We support the decisions and recommendations of that Congress and the con-  tents of the Barcelona Statement. We believe that cultural diversity should be a basis  for international co-operation and understanding, and that peace is not the absence of  war but the presence of social justice. Just as we recognize the rights of minorities,  we also recognize the rights of the majority of peoples. We also believe in dialogue,  equality, disarmament and the elimination of racism.
(30.9) Mr President, like all the young people of the world, the youth of Sudan want  to see Palestinian young people play an important and primary role in their country,  Palestine. They support them in their effort to free their country from Zionist occu-  pation and call for the preservation of the heritage and culture of the Palestinian  people and their right to life and development.
(30.10) Mr President, while we support Unesco's programmes for youth in the fields of  education, science, culture and communication, we believe that special importance  should be given to the following matters: (I) the strengthening of co-operation  between Member States for the launching of youth co-operation projects among the  developing countries; (2) helping Member States to establish policies for youth and  plans for executing those policies on the basis of the conclusions of research carried  out by Unesco in this area; (3) Unesco support for young people and their various  associations; (4) giving youth programmes a special place in Unesco's third Medium-  Term Plan. Thank you, Mr President.
31. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie M. Mahdi Amin El Tom et je donne la parole à S. Exc.  M. l'ambassadeur Yannis Coutsocheras, délégué permanent de la Grèce auprès de
32.1 M. COUTSOCHERAS (Grèce) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, chers collègues,  j'ai eu la chance de participer au Congrès mondial de la jeunesse à Barcelone,  dans un climat et une atmosphère que seuls peuvent créer les jeunes avec leur  coeur et leur langage. Qu'il me soit permis de dire que je suis, en pensée et de  coeur, avec les jeunes, sue je les comprends et les admire. Et je saisis  l'occasion, Monsieur le President, pour vous inviter tous à lire le Rapport du  Directeur général relatif à l'Année internationale de la jeunesse, ainsi que le  Rapport final du Congrès mondial sur la jeunesse dans lequel, entre autres  propositions, il est demandé à l'Unesco de favoriser la proclamation d'une  Journée mondiale de l'Acropole, comme symbole de l'éducation, de la culture et de  la paix.
32.2 Monsieur le Président, la mission de l'Unesco est largement orientée  vers la jeunesse. I1 est donc normal que notre Conférence générale soit imprégnée  des thèmes et des propositions concernant la jeunesse. Et j 'aimerais souligner  ici que la cause de la jeunesse nous concerne tous, sans distinction de  générations.
32.3 Qui d'ailleurs pourrait nier, Monsieur le Président, que les jeunes se  trouvent toujours à l'avant-garde de la lutte pour les causes brûlantes de leur  époque, que ce soit pour l'éducation, la science et la culture, pour les droits  de l'homme et les droits des peuples ou pour la grande cause de la paix. Monsieur  le Président, les jeunes ne sont-ils pas ceux qui luttent contre la menace  nucléaire et la course aux armements et qui luttent aussi pour la liberté et la  démocratie ?
32.4 Pour m'en tenir à des exemples que j'ai vécus de près, je voudrais  évoquer l'action des étudiants de la Faculté de droit d'Athènes et de l'école  polytechnique, il y a dix ans déjà - qui a marqué l'apogée de la résistance  grecque contre la dictature. Les cris des étudiants exigeant "pain, éducation,  liberté" ont, tels le tonnerre, ébranlé toute la Grèce et ont retenti même  au-delà de ses frontières. Ce fut le commencement de la fin de la dictature et du  retour de la démocratie dans le pays où elle est née.
32.5 Mais la jeunesse grecque ne se bat pas seulement pour les libertés  fondamentales. Elle est le catalyseur des nouveaux messages qui arrivent de  toutes les parties du monde en vue de libérer et de valoriser ses forces  novatrices pour une autre qualité de vie, dans tous les domaines. Elle recherche  différentes solutions aux problèmes que posent la consommation, la pollution, la
948    migration, le chômage, la course aux armements, pour ne citer que' quelques  problèmes. Elle a le courage de dire "non" aux modèles dépassés mais, en même  temps, elle cherche de nouvelles formes de participation active dans les centres  de décision et à tous les niveaux de la vie sociale, p.olitique, culturelle ; elle  déploie des efforts de coopération et d'imagination pour être une source  d'inspiration créatrice pour tous.
32.6 L'une des initiatives les plus remarquables de ces dernières années est  celle des rencontres internationales de la paix et de l'amitié des jeunes du  monde entier à Halki, mises sur pied en 1983. Ce projet, considéré au départ  comme utopique et quelque peu romantique, a pu se développer grâce à une volonté  politique et à un travail efficace. L'Unesco a beaucoup soutenu ce programme dès  le début, ainsi que l'OCDE et l'ONU. Aujourd'hui Halki est devenue un phénomène  mondial et un acquis des jeunes du monde entier. Les jeunes de la planète se  rencontrent et fraternisent dans un milieu humain, confrontent leurs angoisses,  leurs problèmes et leurs aspirations dans la recherche d'autres formes d'ex-  pression, mus par la passion de vivre et la joie de la créativité.
32.7 Après une période d'initiatives expérimentales, mon pays a élaboré une  politique qui est en voie d'application. Elle s'inscrit dans une stratégie  d'ensemble visant à trouver des modes d'intervention et des réponses à la plupart  des problèmes de la société grecque contemporaine, qui sont liés à la crise de  l'humanité dans son ensemble.
32.8 Monsieur le Président, nous vivons à une époque où il nous incombe de  prendre nos responsabilités envers l'humanité. C'est pourquoi, il est impératif  que les portes de l'éducation s'ouvrent aux enfants pour leur offrir des chances  égales, ce qui suppose d'abord qu'ils soient convenablement nourris. C'est  pourquoi, conformément au souhait exprimé devant notre Conférence générale le  matin du 16 octobre dernier, il conviendrait que certains aliments de base soient  déclarés hors commerce, et distribués gratuitement aux enfants. Monsieur le  Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, le Parlement grec a formulé un voeu  identique l'après-midi du même jour.
32.9 I1 importe aussi que l'enseignement de l'histoire soit dénué de tout  fanatisme, que les portes des centres de décision soient pleinement ouvertes aux  jeunes, et aussi que l'on considère les jeunes comme un groupe social et poli-  tique de première importance de sorte qu'à ce titre, il puisse participer à  toutes les formes d'expression de la société, afin de mettre sa créativité et son  dynamisme au service de l'humanité pour un meilleur avenir.
32.10 C'est dans cet esprit, Monsieur le Président, que je souhaite du plus  profond de mon coeur que 1 Unesco renforce et développe ses programmes en faveur  de la jeunesse. Je vous remercie.
33. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie S. Exc. M. l'ambassadeur Yannis Coutsocheras et j'invite  M. Rao Chelikani à prendre la parole au nom du Comité de coordination du Service  volontaire international.
34.1 Mr CHELIKANI (Co-ordinating Committee for International Voluntary  Service) :  Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for provid-  ing this opportunity for Youth Movements to present the highlights of their  reflections on Unesco's Programme and Budget for 1986-1987.
34.2 First of all let me convey the deep appreciation our Youth Movements  wish to express to you, to the Director-General, and to the Member States for the  consistent and ever-increasing support and co-operation extended by Unesco so  that we too, the international NGOs , may contribute effectively to the realiz-  ation of the noble objectives of Unesco. We are also aware that the Executive  Board constantly reviews with keen interest the work of Unesco in the field of  youth. Over the years the Director-General has been consulting and associating  regularly with the Youth Organizations - collectively and individually - in con-  nection with a number of activities concerning youth.
34.3 It was in such a framework of concertation that the 10th Annual Collec-  tive Consultation of Youth NGOs affiliated to Unesco was held, with the kind  hospitality of the Government of Greece, in Rhodes from 11 to 14 September 1985.  The participants, representing a broad diversity of political, religious,  economic and social opinions, unanimously adopted the following common statement  which I now have the privilege of presenting to you.  Common statement of the Collective Consultation of Youth NGOs  adopted at the meeting held in Rhodes (Greece)  from 11 to 14 September 1985
949    Bringing to the attention of the Member States the contribution  made by the Youth NGOs and, particularly, the activities in favour of  peace, development and education and in support of national liberation  movements, the observance of human rights, the struggle against discrim-  ination and apartheid and the implementation of special programmes aimed  at'young men and women who are socially, economically, politically and  culturally disadvantaged, including the disabled young people;  Appreciating the very important contribution of Unesco toward  solving the problems of youth during International Youth Year;  Underlining the importance and quality of the relationship between  Unesco and the Youth NGOs and the continuing support of the Youth NGOs  for the activities of Unesco;  We, the Youth Organizations, request Unesco to adopt a long-term  programme in favour of youth, as a follow-up to International Youth  Year, in order to help young people to take their full place and play an  active part in society. Such a programme would enable the implementation  of operational projects 'favouring the initiatives of young people them-  selves. This should be done through ever-increasing co-operation with  the NGOs, as expressed in the Barcelona' Declaration adopted by the par-  ticipants of the World Congress on Youth. To fulfil the above objective,  adequate budgetary provisions need to be made.  We wish to bring to your attention, the importance that we attach:  to the Annual Collective Consultation of Youth NGOs;  the Working Group elected by them;  the NGO volunteers in the Unesco Youth Division; and  the training courses on Unesco activities held at Unesco Head-  quarters for youth leaders.  We recommend that there be more effective co-operation between  National Commissions for Unesco and Youth NGOs at national and regional  levels.  Finally we express the desire that the International Year of Peace  and the Third Development Decade also should continue to embrace the  concerns of International Youth Year, particularly in the areas of  peace, development and participation.
34.4 Mr President, I would like to add in conclusion that what we are wit-  nessing today, here in the plenary meeting of the twenty-third session of the  General Conference of Unesco, is unique. Youth has the opportunity to express  itself from within the national delegations, as well as invited observers. This  is a good example for other agencies of the United Nations system. Thank you,  Sir.
36.1 Mr WYNTER (Jamaica) :  Mr President, I have the honour to have been asked by my colleagues at  this Conference to present this message on behalf of Caribbean youth from the  English- and Dutch-speaking areas of Latin America and the Caribbean. We are  aware that there is a difference between the concept of youth and the chrono-  logical period of age belonging to the young. We know that a great English play-  wright - George Bernard Shaw - with sharp penetration declared that 'Youth is  wa'sted on the young' - by which he no doubt meant that the spirit of youth, the  idealism of youth, the energy of youth, the enthusiasm of youth was wasted on the  young because of the lack of experience. But we shall not involve ourselves in a  e aphysical debate over the question, heedful, as we are, of Czechoslovakia's Mr E S  mid's admonition to us all yesterday that we should avoid the metaphysical in  our debates.
36.2 Mr President, we are a young people in the Caribbean. In the 12 English-  speaking and one Dutch-speaking territories, for which I speak, the demographic  picture is one of a population with over 50 per cent of the people under 21 years  of age, and well over 60 per cent under 35. By any yardstick, therefore, we can  claim to be a very young people. We are therefore visited by all the assets of  the young, as we seek to protect our nations from the vulnerability of youth to  Je remercie M. Rao Chelikani. Je donne la parole à S. Exc. M. Hector
9 50    the problems of society, of which they are more victims than agents. It is the  youth who suffer most from drug abuse. It is the youth who suffer most from un-  employment and the concomitant frustrations. It is the youth who are prey to the  criminal-minded, and who thus influenced, become the perpetrators of much of the  crime in our societies. It is the youth, who, succumbing to the easy temptations  of violence, become the practitioners of violence; it is the young women who must  face the still lingering evils of sex discrimination, sex abuse, which in turn  leads to the agony of unemployment, illiteracy, and the inadequacies of the  inherited educational systems.
36.3 Mr President, an example of discrimination against women is given in  this not unamusing set of rules for young women teachers issued by the edu-  cational authority in a Caribbean country, which shall be nameless, before the  Independence of the sixties: I believe that this set of rules was issued sometime  between 1915 and 1920. These are the rules for young women teachers in the  schools. ' (1) You will not marry during the term of your contract, (2) You are  not to keep company with men, (3) You must be home between the hours of 8 p.m.  and 6 a.m. unless attending a school function, (4) You must not loiter downtown  in ice-cream stores, (5) You may not travel beyond the city limits unless you  have the permission of the chairman of your Board, (6) You may not ride in a  carriage or automobile with any man unless he is your father or brother, (7) You  may not smoke cigarettes, (8) You may not dress in bright colours, (9) You may  under no circumstances dye your hair, (10) You must wear at least two petticoats,
(11) Your dress must not be any shorter than two inches above the ankle, (12) To  keep the schoolroom neat and clean you must sweep the floor at least once daily,  scrub the floor at least once a week with hot, soapy water, clean the blackboards  at least once a day, and start a fire at 7 a.m. so that the room will be warm at
8 a.m.'. And this is being issued in a tropical country which is always warm.
36.4 But, on the other hand, Mr President, it is the youth who are moving  most rapidly into the light of identifying and elaborating our cultural heritage.  It is our young people who are charting new paths in our search for the enrich-  ment of our music, our dance, our poetry, our songs, our painting, our art.  Already the world ha5 been responding to the liveliness and panache of the  calypsos and with their witty commentary on society and their lilting tunes. And  in every continent reggae from the Caribbean with its haunting throbbing rhythm  has been challenging national pop music for the affection of their young and old  alike. The late hero of Caribbean reggae, Bob Marley, now a national hero, is far  better known than our great political leaders and heroes. And it is our young  athletes and other sportsmen who have made us so well known throughout the world.  As a young people, leadership and responsibilty have to be accepted by our youth.  And I am pleased to say that our youth have been reacting with responsibility  without losing that quality of enthusiasm so peculiar to the young.
36.5 SO, Mr President, our youth are as concerned as the rest of us at the  dangers which face the world.
36.6 In 1945, we who were young leaders then, dreamed of a world in which  wars would be banished. We dreamed of a world in which colonialism, racism, and  evils such as apartheid - which then affected other countries besides South  Africa - would disappear. We dreamed of a world where ideological pluralisms  would not lead to new manifestations of imperialism and hegemony. We dreamed of a  world in which the strong would protect the weak, and not seek to make more weak.  While we who were young then now struggle to prevent ourselves from becoming  cynical at the still unfulfilled dreams we had, our youth are dreaming their own  dreams. And it is our responsibility as a society to assist them to see their  dreams come true.
36.7 And it is our responsibilty in Unesco to help, through education,  science, culture and communication, to prepare them to dream more realistically,  and hence achieve more of their aims and dreams than we did. Thus, we thank the  Director-General and the Youth Division in particular, for what has been  achieved. But clearly the majority of our programmes in education, culture and  communication and much of science are for the youth.
36.8 It is, Mr President, a happy decision to hold this session on youth on  the eve of the fortieth anniversary of man's boldest attempt at world peace,  world harmony and international collaboration, I refer to the founding of the  United Nations and the United Nations system. I well remember as a young man  hearing a distinguished Asian delegate to the San Francisco Conference of June
1945 telling us young people in Jamaica that, as the nations met to hammer out  the United Nations charter, they were trying to concoct an international  omelette. But, regrettably, he said, what came on the table was not an omelette,  but a series of national hard-boiled eggs. He was right, Mr President, and he was  wrong. Those of us attending this Conference can decide how right and how wrong.  Certainly this year, as our youth celebrated International Youth Year, Caribbean
9 51    young people have taken part firstly in the International Youth Conference in  Kingston in April, then in the International Youth Festival of Arts and Culture  in Kingston, and then in the World Youth Congress in Barcelona, and finally in  the World Youth Festival in Moscow in July.
36.9 I end by quoting from the Kingston Declaration of Principles: Affir-  mation of Participation, Development and Peace in Freedom. Mr President, young  people from some 110 countries met - none representing States as such - but  representing themselves, and they declared:
1. We, the representatives of democratic youth gathered in Kingston,  Jamaica, have come together from every region of the world to meet and  declare our fundamental and abiding faith in freedom. It is this affir-  mation of freedom that binds us together in common cause, now and in  future.
2. It is the diversity of our countries of origin - a rich diversity  indeed, encompassing many stages of economic and political development,  distinctive cultural traditions, and unique national identities - that  should be characteristic of a world in which the freedom to pursue the  personal and national goals of our choosing would be both recognized and  respected. It is a diversity that, with tolerance and goodwill, merges  into the common heritage of people everywhere who seek a genuine and  lasting peace, and will make any sacrifice to secure that peace - except  the sacrifice of freedom itself.
3. There is no contradiction between diversity and the common bonds of  shared belief... or between free individuals and responsible citizens  loyal to democratic nations. Our experience here at the International  Youth Conference is proof of that. Our discussions have been spirited.  We have engaged in often heated debate. We have resolved many of our  disagreements; others remain. Yet in this free and open forum we have  been able to forge strong ties of common affirmation.
4. This, then, is the message of the International Youth Conference,  and of International Youth Year 1985: that we intend to strive toward  the objectives embodied in the IYY themes - Participation, Development  and Peace - in freedom, with freedom, and in the cause of freedom.
5. It is a message of young men and women addressed especially to  youth around the world. It is a message of hope ... idealism ... aspir-  ation ... dedication ... and of responsibility, 'both as individuals and  as one related group, for the future of the world.  This declaration, Mr President, introduced a ten-page enunciation of the prin-  ciples for participation, development and peace. That, Mr President, is the  challenge accepted by the youth of the Caribbean, and it is the challenge to us  all. Thank you, Mr President.
37. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie S. Exc. M. Hector Wynter et j'invite le Dr Saiyut  Champatong, secrétaire général de la Commission nationale de la Thaïlande pour  l'Unesco.
38.1 Mr CHAMPATONG (Thailand) :  Thank you, Mr President. It is a privilege for me to have the honour of  being one of the representatives of Asia and the Pacific joining in the debate on  the problems of youth. The subject of our choice, Mr President, is not only  timely, but is also of great concern to us as individuals. To most of us, youth  is the subject closest to our heart, for who among us in this gathering does not  have a young person as a child or a grandchild? As members of the international  community, we also consider it our collective responsibility to lend guiding  hands to the younger generation. It is our wish to create a better world for  posterity, a world of peace, security and stability. We of course are open to  suggestions and participation on the part of young people themselves. We should  to listen to their needs and their wants and to share with them in their  be anxieti reaT s, so that, together, we could find solutions to the urgent problems  facing them.
38.2 Because of the time constraint, Mr President, I shall confine myself to  highlighting a few prominent problems confronting the youth of today, identify-  ing, where possible, the roots and causes of these problems. I shall then proceed  to make a few suggestions for the strengthening of international co-operation,  particularly under the aegis of Unesco.
38.3 Mr President, with rapid scientific and technical advancement, ,.the world  has become a much smaller place. Traditional ways of life and values have so  rapidly changed that many families, particularly those in the urban areas in  developing countries, can hardly cope with the situation. Parents become bewil-  dered by the ever-widening generation gap. They are hurt for, to them, the  younger generation seems ungrateful for all that the parents have sacrificed for  them. Young people, for their part, reject parental over-protection and control.  This gap has often led to alienation from their families. Many young people  reject existing cultural traditions and social structures; with no viable sub-  stitutes, they simply drift along aimlessly, or find escape through the use of  toxic substances, including alcohol and hard drugs. Figures of drug addicts, the  majority of whom are youngsters, in our part of the world as well as in other  regions are in the hundreds of thousands. National and international efforts have  been made to suppress the illicit trade. Non-governmental organizations have also  joined hands in these efforts. And yet the illicit trade is so lucrative that it  is most difficult to attain total eradication.
38.4 Violent and extreme behaviour has often been manifested, sometimes for  no apparent reason, particularly in sports and political demonstrations. These  have often led to the loss of precious lives or permanent injuries. Many families  have shed tears and experienced anguish over these senseless killings.
38.5 Many young people find their future extremely bleak, for in spite of  extensive educational and vocational training they have received, what lies in  store for them is unemployment, or - for their more fortunate colleagues - under-  employment.
38.6 These are, Mr President, only a few of the crucial and bewildering prob-  lems. What can the international community do to help its members find solutions  to them? Unesco has, on several occasions, been recognized by the United Nations  General Assembly for its specific place and responsibility for the improvement of  channels of communication between the United Nations and young people and youth  organizations, as well as for the valuable contribution it makes to the promotion  of international co-operation in the field of youth. Indeed, my delegation deeply  appreciates Unesco's past efforts in producing a wealth of material on which  Member States may draw in formulating their particular youth policies. The Organ-  ization has been able to obtain far-reaching results with regard to efforts to  identify youth problems at the regional level in different parts of the world.  For the future, however, a more concentrated focus on youth problems should be  our main objective.
38.7 As possible solutions to the various problems I have enumerated, I would  suggest that Unesco should advocate a return to ethical and spiritual values. I  recognize that an activity for the promotion of ethical values in education has  been included in the Draft Programme and Budget for the coming biennium, but much  more remains to be done. More extensive efforts must be devoted to strengthening  the programme of education and the world of work. More financial and human  resources must be allocated to the programme of education for the prevention of  drug abuse. We feel that the amount of US $43,000 proposed in paragraph 04227(b)  of document 23 C/5 for this programme is almost negligible in comparison with the  magnitude of the existing problem. In this connection, Thailand's extensive  experience in preventive education, treatment, and social rehabilitation of  former drug addicts could be very useful. We stand ready, Mr President, to share  our expertise and experience with the Organization as well as with other Member  States.
38.8 Mr President, from the in-depth study and assessment of Unesco's inter-  sectoral activities relating to youth carried out by the two distinguished Exec-  utive Board members from Pakistan and Philippines, it has been revealed that 45  per cent of the world population is composed of young people. One half Of  Unesco's budget, therefore, should actually and logically have been spent on  youth programmes. And yet, in reality, the Organization can afford only US .O01  cent per young person. Our attention is therefore invited to the various valuable  recommendations put forward by the authors of the study, so that they could be  translated into action.
38.9 Mr President, Unesco is to be commended for its efforts in regard to co-  operation with youth organizations. We feel that these efforts should be further  strengthened. Youth activities should be extensively decentralized to the field  offices of the Organization as well as for implementation by competent depart-  ments of the Member States.
38.10 Unesco is also to be congratulated for organizing the World Youth Con-  gress in Barcelona last July. The Barcelona Statement is eloquent and self-  explanatory. For those of you who have not. had the opportunity of studying the  Statement, may I kindly invite you to do so. I am sure that the international
953    community, and in particular Unesco, which has been entrusted with the role of  lead agency of the United Nations system, will be able to rise to the expec-  tations and meet the challenges squarely. We in Asia and the Pacific stand ready  to co-operate in every possible way so that we shall be able to create a better,  a brighter world for our children, as we have set out as our main tasks. Thank  you, Mr President.
39. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le Dr Saiyut Champatong et j'invite S. Exc. M. Georges Kamau  Muhoho, vice-ministre de l'éducation, la science et la technologie du Kenya, à  prendre la parole.
40.1 Mr MUHOHO (Kenya):  Thank you, Mr President. May I thank you for giving me this opportunity  to comment on some of the problems of youth, their causes and consequences and  prospects of alleviating some of the problems. The problems of youth require  special attention at all times because, Mr President, at any one given time the  future belongs to young people.
40.2 In many countries, especially of the Third World, young people consti-  tute a vast majority of the population, and the trend is likely to continue for  some time to come. In my country, for example, out of an estimated population of
20 million, more than 60 per cent is under the age of 20 years. The youth period  also happens to be at the time of age when one is undergoing exciting and  dramatic growth changes. Youth is at the most receptive and formative stage and  any influence, positive or negative, on youth is bound to have far-reaching  effects on the individual and on the society of tomorrow.
40.3 In the case of youth in the Third World, Mr President, the problems are  at times overwhelming and elusive and even compounded because the young are  undergoing the dramatic changes at the same time as their countries are also
40.4 The major problems facing youth in many countries, Mr President, are  those of unemployment and under-employment. We have, howevey, recognized as  silrely as most other countries have that unemployment is both a social and  economic problem. At a time when balance of payments deficits preoccupy the minds  of most developing countries, it is very easy to ignore that unemployment  threatens the very fabric of our societies, especially when it is the young who  are involved. Unless the economic constraints emanating from the international  trade imbalances are lessened and unless economic growth ,picks up, it is really  difficult to solve the problem of unemployment. The irony of all this, Mr Presi-  dent, is that it happens at a time when youth is full of energy and drive. What  happens? Drug and sex abuses are some of the common consequences of idleness. It  also occasionally happens that the young see contradictions between many of the  principles and practices of the older generations. Lack of proper dialogue  between parents and children is another big problem and triggers off a host of  other problems. Problems of cultural alienation, student strikes, truancy, these  are familiar experiences. Violence shown through mass media has engendered other  problems for our youth. Child pregnancies because of poor housing conditions are  a consequence and a cause of a host of many other problems for our youth. All in  all, Mr President, general indiscipline and crime by youth are interwoven.
40.5 Therefore, Mr President, Unesco has a singular responsibility in helping  to alleviate some of these problems of youth, their causes and consequences. The  launching of youth programmes that imparts skills to the youth so that they can  become self-reliant should be intensified.
40.6 In Kenya, as in most other countries, Mr President, we have tried to  solve some of these problems. We have free primary education for the young; most  of the post-secondary education and training is given free. At the moment,  Mr President, the Republic of Kenya is spending 34 per cent of its national  budget on education. We have instituted a new educational system wherein we pro-  long our primary education to eight years. Our secondary education remains at  four years, and our university education will be four years. So we call it the
8-4-4 educational system. This, Mr President, is aimed at relating education to  work and the cultural life of our people. For the past 20 years, we have been  having a national youth service scheme to engage our youth. In our political  party system, we have incorporated young people through a youth wing. Throughout  the country, we are trying to establish village polytechnics to promote the pro-  ductive and creative potential of our young school-leavers, who after two years  or so at the village polytechnics become ready for employment both in the former  sector and also for self-employment. It is into areas like this, Mr President,  that we feel more assistance both, bilateral and multilateral, should be  channelled.  ' undergoing similar dramatic changes in many ways.
40.7 There are several other ways we could use to engage the intellectual and  physical potential of our youth, such as intellectual and physical competitions  in languages and games and sports. Encouraging youth associations could help a  long way in instilling discipline, self-discipline and a sense of responsibility  in youth, thus turning the young into useful members of society. Voluntary youth  associations can encourage the young to assist the poor and other special groups  like the elderly and the disabled. We would like some of the Unesco programmes  intensified to help the young to be engaged in such productive and creative  projects.
40.8 At the individual, family, group, association, national and inter-  national levels, we all have a duty to tackle the problems of youth in order to  make the world a better place for today and tomorrow. As a famous great chief of  those original inhabitants of northern America, popularly known as the Red  Indians, once said: 'We have not inherited the earth from our fathers; we hold it  in trust for our children'. Thank you, Mr President.
41. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie S. Exc. M. George Kamau Muhoho et je donne la parole à  M. Nacem Greffou, directeur de la planification au Ministère de la jeunesse et  des sports d'Algérie.
42.1 M. GREFFOU (Algérie) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général de l'Unesco,  Monsieur le Président du Congrès de Barcelone, honorables délégués, qu'il me soit  tout d'abord permis d'observer que l'Unesco s'interroge et se penche sur les  problèmes de la jeunesse à l'occasion de l'Année internationale au moment même où  elle ressent un des soubresauts les plus violents de son histoire. En effet, il  est intéressant de mettre en parallèle ces deux aspects et d'imaginer que  l'Unesco, d'une part, et la jeunesse, d'autre part, puissent être source d'en-  richissement et de renforcement mutuels.
42.2 Au sein de cette honorable assemblée, Monsieur le Président, les pro-  blèmes de la jeunesse sont souvent abordés avec spontanéité et parfois avec le  militantisme de la sincérité.
42.3 Cependant, il me semble que lorsqu'on examine ces questions au niveau  international, il y a lieu de transcender les considérations politiques et  idéologiques pour se préoccuper des objectifs culturels et éducatifs de l'hu-  manité. Mais le réalisme nous enseigne qu'il est dans l'ordre des choses que les  alliances existent et qu'elles évoluent, de même qu'il est dans l'ordre des  choses que les problèmes de la jeunesse ne soient pas perçus par tous de la même  manière et donc que les sensibilités ne soient pas les mêmes sur cette affaire.
42.4 Monsieur le Président, l'Unesco est particulièrement qualifiée de par sa  nature et ses missions pour s'intéresser aux problèmes de la jeunesse. C'est  pourquoi la crise actuelle m'apparaît regrettable car elle risque de compromettre  l'avenir et donc une des raisons d'être essentielles de cette Organisation. A  l'heure actuelle, la majorité de la population du globe est jeune. Nous vivons un  temps où la situation de la jeunesse est critique dans un monde où l'histoire a  légué un héritage culturel particulièrement difficile à assumer, tant il est en  proie à des distorsions et des turbulences de toutes sortes, et la jeunesse ne  peut que constater les limites de la solidarité internationale.
42.5 Monsieur le Président, en Afrique, dans la plupart des cas, la culture  des jeunes est perturbée, les systèmes sociaux sont déséquilibrés et les systèmes  éducatifs sont inadéquats. Nous avons affaire à un affaiblissement de l'intégra-  tion sociale des jeunes qui sont en quête de leur identité. En Amérique latine,  le désespoir né du chômage urbain et l'exode rural entraînent un déracinement  culturel ainsi que la remise en question des modèles étrangers de modernisation.  Dans certains pays d'Asie et du Pacifique, les jeunes rejettent leurs traditions  culturelles et leurs structures sociales, sans vraiment trouver de réponse à  leurs problèmes. Dans les pays arabes, pourtant unis par l'histoire, la religion  et la langue, une politique coordonnée de la jeunesse est ce qui manque le plus à  l'action des Etats eux-mêmes. Et enfin, beaucoup de jeunes chômeurs d'Europe ne  croient plus en eux-mêmes ni à la société à laquelle ils appartiennent.
42.6 Monsieur le Président, aujourd'hui dans tous les pays un grand nombre de  jeunes continuent de souffrir et cette souffrance les met très tôt en situation  de responsabilité. Nous observons le rythme rapide des changements sociaux et la  mondialisation des communications qui entraîne un dépérissement des références  culturelles ce qui, naturellement, contribue à semer le désarroi parmi les  jeunes. De plus, les problèmes énormes qui concernent notre monde, les affron-  tements potentiels et l'immensité des tâches à accomplir sont 3 l'origine d'un  certain sentiment de pessimisme et de désorientation.
42.7 Monsieur le Président, lorsque l'Unesco se penche sur les questions de  la jeunesse, c'est aux problèmes culturels et sociaux d'une grande partie de  l'humanité auxquels elle s'intéresse ; et voilà pourquoi, sur ce problème, c'est  une image d'elle-même que l'Unesco reçoit en retour. Cela signifie par conséquent  que l'Unesco doit dynamiser ses services chargés de coordonner les activités de  jeunesse, à la lumière des progrès qualitatifs importants qui sont intervenus, et  cela dans une proportion à la mesure de l'attente et des espérances des jeunes du  monde entier.
42.8 Par ailleurs, Monsieur le Président, il faut que l'Unesco mette à  l'ordre du jour les questions qui nous rassemblent. De même qu'en matière de  méthode, le Congrès de Barcelone, je le rappelle, a recommandé la création d'un  observatoire international pour la réflexion prospective sur les questions qui  concernent les jeunes, de même la vingt-troisième session de la Conférence  générale pourrait recommander aux commissions nationales de mettre en place des  instruments à caractère horizontal pour la coordination des activités de la  jeunesse.
42.9 Le Directeur général de .l'Unesco, à l'occasion du Congrès de Barcelone,  a invité les jeunes à sortir du désarroi et de la confusion et a appelé à une  réflexion imaginative et créatrice sur l'avenir.
42.10 Qu'il me soit permis de penser que cet appel pourrait être lancé en  retour par les jeunes à l'Unesco, qui, si elle se livrait à une introspection de  cette nature, pourrait identifier la voie de son renouveau et de son unité. En  effet, nous pouvons observer les changements qualitatifs importants intervenus  depuis le début des années 50 et pour conclure, il nous faut rappeler, Monsieur  le Président, que les enfants qui naissent aujourd'hui n'auront que quinze ans en  l'an 2000 et que ce seront eux les citoyens du XXIe siècle. C'est peut-être là  que réside l'espoir pour l'Unesco de retrouver sa vigueur et son unité. Je vous  remercie, Monsieur le Président.
43. Le PRESIDENT :  la Commission nationale du Royaume-Uni pour l'Unesco.
44.1 Mr CHURCH (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland):  Mr President, I resist the temptation to exercise my right of reply to  the statement of my good friend, the distinguished delegate of Jamaica, since I  believe that it is more likely that the unfortunate young ladies who suffered  under the repressive rules he quoted were my fellow countrywomen than his.
44.2 Before I speak to the substance of this debate, I would like to spend  one of my ten minutes on its origins. As part of its consideration of the ways of  improving the working methods of the General Conference, the Temporary Committee  of the Executive Board recommended, as an experiment, that consideration should  be given to the possibility of holding a separate discussion, in plenary or  otherwise, on one or more programme issues of urgent importance. At that time the  Temporary Committee agreed that the purpose of such a discussion should be to  provide an opportunity for a constructive exchange of views on an important and  urgent programme issue. Mr President, as a late speaker in this debate, I can say  with conviction that I believe that it has been worthwhile and has achieved the  purpose for which it was intended. Everyone concerned with the problems of youth  who has either been here today, or who subsequently reads the verbatim record of  our discussion, will have found some inspiration, or some new light shed on an  old problem, from our proceedings. We can be proud that the experiment has proved  its worth.
44.3 Mr President, the topic for discussion is youth. This is clearly appro-  priate and timely in International Youth Year and following the World Congress on  Youth held in Barcelona earlier this year. But it is a large subject and we have  little time. I shall therefore concentrate on one particular subject area only.  That is the drug problem which is an especially worrying problem in relation to  the young throughout the world and which has been referred to by a number of pre'-  vious speakers. And I begin by stressing the importance that we in the United  Kingdom attach to the specific proposals relating to this problem which emerged  from the Barcelona Congress and which were addressed both to governments and to  Unesco itself.
44.4 Mr President, during the various debates at this Conference, and par-  ticularly during the general policy debate, much reference has been made to our  Constitution, which I am afraid is no longer youthful and is now approaching  middle age. Particularly, people have referred to the purpose of Unesco which is  defined as being to contribute to peace and security by promoting collaboration  among the nations through education science and culture in order to further,  among other things 'universal respect for justice' and 'for the rule of law'. The  Je remercie M. Nacem Greffou et j'invite M. David Church, secrétaire de
956    scourge of drugs facing the world today is a major threat to those aims. Drug  traffickers, I am afraid, are no respecters of justice and the rule of law.
44.5 The problem of drug trafficking and misuse differs in its nature from  other criminal activities. Its dynamism is based not simply on evil or want, but  on addiction. Thus it is spread rapidly among all sectors of all societies, among  people, particularly the young, who would not otherwise become involved in anti-  social or criminal behaviour. Because the profits to be made from it are so huge,  the power which accrues to the criminals who run it far outweighs that to be  gained from traditional organized crime. It is a phenomenon with many faces - all  of them ugly - and needs to be tackled in all available ways. And one of its most  unpleasant facets is how it so easily involves and destroys young people.
44.6 The United Nations Organization has recognized this need for a multi-  faceted approach. For example, in a resolution adopted at its eighth special  session in 1984, the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs called for  greater involvement of all United Nations bodies and organizations in promoting  the means of reducing both the supply and demand of illicit drugs. We are pleased  to see that Unesco has already responded to that call, particularly in the field  of education. For example, document 23 C/5 includes provision for training  activities aimed at the inclusion in educational curricula and non-formal edu-  cational activities of interdisciplinary content relating to drug-abuse preven-  tion; and, in co-operation with the International Campaign against Traffic in  Drugs, and in conjunction with the United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control  (UNFDAC), a publication on the activities undertaken by certain Member States to  combat the use of narcotics and prevent drug abuse.
44.7 These are laudable aims and have my government's full support. But, as I  hope I have made clear, we believe that the drugs problem is one of grave  seriousness, enormous and escalating proportions, and great complexity. We also  believe that the problem is a truly global one, for the solution of which a major  effort of international collaboration is required. Efforts to improve public  awareness of the dangers of drug misuse is one line of attack, and a valid one.  But there is more that could be done at both a national and international level.  Not enough is known about the causes of drug misuse. Very little is known about  the effectiveness of public awareness measures in different societies; there is a  great deal of room for research into how to cure addicts. Going further afield, a  problem of eradicating the production of drug crops is that they are often grown  in poorer areas of the world where there is little in the way of an alternative  livelihood, and nothing nearly as profitable as drug crops.
44.8 These are all areas in which support and encouragement ought to be  extended to educational and research institutions. Unesco has taken very welcome  initiatives in these areas through the various preventive and educational proj-  ects in which it has co-operated with UNFDAC, acting as its executing agency in  various parts of the world. This is a very promising trend and fully in line with  Unesco's constitutional mandate. But much remains to be done to counter the  threat posed by drug abuse and trafficking to the health and happiness of our  young people in particular.
44.9 As I said before, Unesco has made a promising start and I hope that, in  co-operation with other United Nations bodies, this work will continue. To this  end the United Kingdom and several other delegations will be sponsoring in Com-  mission V a draft resolution requesting the Director-General to consider with  other agencies the scope for further Unesco activity in this area of benefit to  all but especially to youth.
44.10 It is the hope of my delegation that this resolution will be agreed by  consensus and that it will become a major source of inspiration not only for  Unesco's activities but also for the international community at large as it  fights this modern-day scourge of young people throughout the world. Thank you,  Mr President.
45. Le PRESIDENT :  membre de la délégation permanente de la France auprès de l'Unesco.
46.1 M. Yves MANVILLE (France) :  Monsieur le Président, Mme Halimi notre chef de délégation, a tenu à ce  que le plus jeune membre de la délégation française s'exprime surIlcette question  posée à l'avenir de l'humanité : "Quel monde pour notre jeunesse ? .
46.2 Monsieur le Président, mon intervention débutera par une citation d'un  jeune écrivain français des années 30, qui a dit : "je ne laisserai dire à  personne que vingt ans est le plus bel âge". Cet écrivain, Paul Nizan, a parfai-  tement illustré son propos par sa propre destinée, puisqu'il périssait quelques  Je remercie M. David Church et je donne la parole à M. Yves Manville,
957    années plus tard d'une balle perdue, près de Dunkerque, alors qu'une fois encore  la guerre appelait des millions de jeunes sur les chemins de la mort prématurée.
46.3 Quarante ans après que nos pères eurent conçu la plus belle des apos-  trophes : "Nous, peuples des Natiqps Unies, résolus à préserver les générations  futures du fléau de la guerre ... , quarante ans après nous voyons encore tous  les jours des jeunes partir pour des fronts meurtriers sur tous les continents :  sauf celui où je vis, il est vrai. Mais ce n'est pas parce que nous, jeunes  d'Europe, vivons une sorte de paix, en vérité bien imparfaite, que nous devons  croire que le monde est en paix et que nous devons tolérer qu'il ne le soit pas.
46.4 Pour ne prendre qu'un exemple, il est insupportable à la jeunesse  française, qui a mené cette année une immense campagne nationale contre le  racisme, que l'on tue tous les jours dans les rues de Prétoria afin de maintenir  en place le régime d'apartheid, cette espèce de synthèse monstrueuse des fléaux  du passé et,du présent. Monsieur le Président, quand nous voyons, quand nous  lisons les interminables récits des cortèges d'exécutions, de fusillades et  d'humiliations qui sont le lot quotidien de nos frères d'Afrique australe, quand  nous, jeunes de France, pensons à tout cela, ce n'est as l'épanouissement des  vingt ans que nous ressentons, ni la jouissance de 'cueillir les fruits de  l'arbre d'or de la vie". Nous ressentons, tout au contraire, l'accablement du  désespoir et de la rage d'avoir vingt ans et de devoir subir la honteuse exis-  tence du cancer du racisme.
46.5 Nos visages lisses n'ont pas encore la noblesse de la maturité, l'être  calme de la pensée, ils ne peuvent que refléter avec virulence les regards  terrorisés, les regards affamés, les regards affligés de tous les autres jeunes  auxquels la jeunesse est refusée.
46.6 Tout au fond des horreurs immenses de ce siècle, nos pères ont voulu  autre chose, et de cette volonté est issu le système des Nations Unies. Au coeur  moral de celui-ci se trouve l'Unesco.
46.7 Je ne sais s'il existe quelque part un plus beau titre que celui-ci,  Nations Unies pour l'éducation, la science et la culture. Plus on le lit, plus il  paraît profond, inspiré, contenant en lui seul toute une promesse et toute une  philosophie. Mais avant tout, ce titre apparaît c o m e  une bannière pour la  jeunesse, car n'est-ce pas elle qui est la plus assoiffée, justement, d'éduca-  tion, de science, de culture ? Nous avons encore tout le côté "enfant-porté-  vers-les-étoiles" et si nous sommes à l'écoute du message des Nations Unies quand  elles nous disent que nous devons contribuer à façonner .l'avenir, et pour cela  nous mobiliser en cette année 1985, je dois dire que l'idéal serait plutôt une  mobilisation permanente des jeunes autour de l'Unesco et de ses thèmes de  travail. I1 ne s'agit donc pas tant de faire converger des actions partielles  vers le point Unesco ou ONU que de faire constament rayonner à partir de ce  point des activités-phares et inspiratrices, projetant inlassablement vers les  jeunes les lignes d'action et de réflexion élaborées par l'organisation.
46.8 Celle-ci deviendra alors un vécu quotidien des bonnes volontés si  nombreuses parmi nous, mais aussi si désorientées, j'allais dire, échevelées.  Ainsi, vivant à l'heure de son temps, l'Unesco répondra aux aspirations qui nous  animent et satisfera notre attente passionnée.
46.9 Je voudrais dire en conclusion et en me référant à l'introduction  lumineuse du Directeur général que nous avons conscience en France qu'un monde  sans les Nations Unies serait un monde terrifiant dont la jeunesse serait la  première victime. Nous rêvons d'un monde où la jeunesse ne sera plus l'armée de  personne, sinon l'armée pacifique des Nations Unies pour l'éducation, la science  et la culture. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
47. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie M. Yves Manville et j'invite le professeur Hans Lenk de  l'université de Karlsruhe, membre de la Commission nationale de la République  fédérale d'Allemagne pour l'Unesco.
48.1 Mr LENK (Federal Republic of Germany),:  Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, 'What is  youth? A dream. What is love? The content of that dream'. This is a quotation  from the famous Danish philosopher Kierkegaard, and it might be appropriate to  finish this long session with the statement of a philosopher. But the dream I was  talking about has not come true even in this International Youth Year, and the  Unesco World Congress stressed key problems and factors and key processes leading  to a sense of pessimism and disorientation, even disarray, among young people.
48.2 Indeed, disorientation and insecurity or uncertainty seem to be a  characteristic feature of youth everywhere. Not only rapid technological and
958    social changes, but often, too, a kaleidoscopic spectrum of the world offered on  television sometimes lead to a real chaos of facts and facets substantially  enhancing this basic insecurity and disorientation.
48.3 We have indeed to distinguish between the problems of the overpopulated  countries with an overwhelming majority of young people and highly industrialized  societies where the young population tends to become a decreasing minority.  Whereas in countries of the former type the basic insecurities stem from the fact  that even basic needs (the Director-General talked of 'mere survival problems')  cannot be sufficiently cared for, the situation in the latter countries is quite  different: here the insecurity rather develops at the cultural level; problems of  pluralistic value orientation, lack of role-adaption and the overarching un-  employment problem.
48.4 Unfortunately, there seems to be no comprehensive international compara-  tive study dealing with the situation of the young in these different societal  environments. I shall come back to that at the end of my presentation. In what  follows I would like briefly to refer to three topics. First, phenomena and  difficulties of young people in highly industrialized societies; second, some  short socio-philosophical theses regarding creativity, self-development, and  achievement-motivation; and third, some operative proposals which might be con-  sidered by Unesco with regard to these problems.
48.5 To begin with, new ,studies, including social science studies on youth  problems, have shown that the sometimes so-called 'subcultures' of young people  are usually not that radical and universal as was earlier .assumed by some  authors. That seems to have been an exaggerated effect: sometimes a minority  phenomenon, for instance a radical subculture like the punks, appears to be far  more popular than it is. Visibility exaggerates and favours misrepresentation. An  outstanding reference group for articulating and spreading these partial sub-  cultural norms and attitudes as well as for the socialization of the young in  general is and remains the peer group; some sociologists even talk about peer-  group segregration. And these peer groups are to some extent still specific to  social levels and strata. So there are some stratificational limits determined by  education, school and frequently also by their parents, cultural status and  cultural orientation. The parents remain a very important reference group, even  today. The so-called conflict between the generations seems to be far more  general and collective and less personal than assumed previously. It is a rather  general gap and no clear-cut fronts are visible, so in a sense we have a certain  problem to look for: neat differences.
48.6 Similar discrepancy between judging their own personal situation and the  general situation occurs with regard to the expectations for the future. More  than half of the young would assess the general future situation for young people  rather pessimistically, whereas optimistic attitudes prevail with regard to the  personal future. Is this sort of splitting the expectations the only logical way  to cope with the overall pessimistic auspices of the so-called 'no-future' gener-  ation? But no-future is no viable strategy at all. It certainly does not lend  itself to an active rational strategy. Our youth does not deserve to be offered  only no-future options. The young members of society have later on to shape the  future and to provide for it. This certainly presupposes options, hopes,  realistic opportunities for decision-making and planning as well as an amount of  optimism and affirmative action. No-future can be planned by a 'no-future' men-  tality. Therefore, we as the adult generation have responsibility to provide for  the necessary options mentioned.
48.7 NOW, let me turn to some educational implications, conclusions and  statements. I would like to draw on the longer version of my text, which is  available from the Conference Secretariat, by mentioning five thesis out of  twenty. Man as an active being is indispensably dependent on cultivating creative  activities in order to develop his personality, and the President of the Youth  Congress already paid attention to that, moving over from the emphasis of assist-  ance to the emphasis of activities, and this is also my main concern. In that  respect I would like to mention thesis number one. First, educational programmes,  practice and institutions thus far do not take into account the central differ-  ence between primary and secondary motivation, between creative and authentic  activity and meeting just routine standards, between genuine education and drill  or manipulative insinuation, between.active productivity and imitation. To foster  authentic action and achievement is a kind of anti-drill, anti-technocratic,  anti-formal and anti-dictorial programme. Democracy is really based on partici-  patory action and authentic personnel activity and achievement.
48.8 Now I come to thesis number two. Man is not only the acting being but  the achieving being, capable of authentic achievements. There is a principle of  personal, authentic action which renders productive and personal creative acting
959    a decisive precondition of presentation and development as well as materializ-  ation of the self. There is a creative principle of achievement and a deep satis-  faction resides in creative achievement and action, as we know. The realms of all  creative achievements are fields of genuine personnel action and development and  I think that this principle will gain a most dramatic and topical significance in  a world which tends to be more and more organized and institutionalized as well  as prefabricated under the overriding power of institutions and media.
48.9 Next, thesis number three. Any form of creative achievement and active  involvement which is easily accessible for youngsters should be developed and  acknowledged as being of great educational and social importance. This is true  for all forms of creative activities and for a personal combination of them and  team oriented activities, too.
48.10 Now for thesis number four. Excellent achievements should be assessed as  a creative expression of the personality; extraordinary achievements are never  the result of drill and compulsion. You can command somebody to march but not to  establish a world record in long distance running. Authentic achievement is and  remains at least ideally an expression of the individual freedom of action.
48.11 I come now to thesis number five. We 'are in need of a new, positive  cultivation and culture of creative achievement and a humanized creative achieve-  ment principle which can be called the principle of proper and authentic achieve-  ment. Therefore we need a humanization of the principle of achievement. All  remaining necessary compulsory and alien as well as alienated motivations should  be reduced step by step and should eventually give way to a free orientation at  creative achievement. Indeed, man does not live on bread alone. He lives also on  proper personal action and achievement. Only by these can man be productive and  creative. The creative being is the achieving being. This is still an important  idea and the ideal educational guideline for the future.
48.12 But I would like now to conclude to come to my third and last part,  mentioning some operational proposals regarding possible measures and actions to  be taken by Unesco. Before doing so, I would like to agree with most of the pro-  posals developed in the draft reports of Commissions I and II of the Unesco World  Congress and I need not mention the details here. But beyond that, some specific  additional actions may be conducive to the materialization of these goals.
48.13 First of all, Unesco could and should design or initiate or help prepare  an international comparative analysis of the situation of the young generation  all over this planet, in all Member States.
48.14 Secondly, Unesco should and could pay attention to the fact that diffi-  culties and problems of the young are societal problems at large which cannot be  reduced to educational programmes, literacy programmes, and so on. I have  developed that in my longer version which is available from the Conference  Secretariat.
48.15 Therefore, I think it .is imperative that thirdly, Unesco could and  should establish a new intersectoral Major Programme XV, Situation of youth. This  intersectoral new programme should combine efforts and results of the respective  sectoral programmes on education, culture, etc. This programme could figure as a  truly interdisciplinary programme like Major Programme XIV, Status of women: for  the time being, it would not necessarily need a budget of its own, but would  mainly consist of an intersectoral combination of the relevant sector programme.  Later on, in a better budget situation of Unesco, Major Programme XV could cer-  tainly be extended by an extra budget according to its societal importance.
48.16 Fourthly, within this Major Programme XV, a working group could develop  some model recommendations how to facilitate and further the mentioned ideas of  free access to education and culture, equal opportunities and active partici-  pation in creative cultural activities, including measures to give a hike to the  relevant motivation. And one would necessarily take into Consideration the  different types of societies mentioned before.
48.17 Fifthly and lastly, Unesco and/or its subdivisions should foster con-  structive and productive and authentic participation of as many individuais as  possible not only the young ones. The idea of 'Education for All' has to be  extended to an overall objective of Unesco - indeed already implicit in its  statutes - to comprise active and possibly creative participation in culture. In  this respect, I think Unesco's objectives and initiatives are to be counted as  part of the best legacy of mankind and should not be endangered by political  tactics. The unity and future of mankind certainly depend on the vitality and  development of this legacy and the hope for its fulfilment. 'Youth is the season  of hope', says the proverb. Let us hope that this season will never end for man-  kind! Thank you.
49.1 Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le professeur Hans Lenk. Permettez-moi, avant de clore cette  séance, de dire quelques mots.
49.2 A l'issue d'un débat aussi riche, auquel ont participé aussi bien les  délégués d'Etats membres de toutes les régions du monde que les représentants des  organisations non gouvernementales, je me garderai de tirer des conclùsions qui  ne pourraient être à cet instant que trop hâtives. La variété des sujets traités,  la différence des approches adoptées, méritent qu'une attention approfondie leur  soit consacrée. Je ne doute pas que le Directeur général et le Secrétariat leur  apporteront cette attention et qu'ils en tiendront le plus grand compte dans  l'élaboration des programmes futurs.
49.3 Je crois que ce débat, ouvert par l'un de nos plus jeunes orateurs,  couronne avec éclat les efforts particulièrement importants que l'Unesco a  consacrés à la célébration de l'Année internationale de la jeunesse ; ce débat,  loin d'être la fin d'une célébration, s'ouvre sur l'avenir et amorce, avec une  remarquable profondeur de réflexion, les suites à donner à l'Année internationale  de la jeunesse. Par ailleurs, cette réflexion, vous allez la poursuivre, en la  traduisant en propositions concrètes de programme, dans les prochains jours, en  Commission V, lorsque vous traiterez du point 4.8 de l'ordre du jour concernant  le "rôle de l'Unesco dans l'amélioration de la situation de la jeunesse et  contribution de l'organisation à l'Année internationale de la jeunesse". Vous  disposez d'ailleurs sur cette question d'un rapport du Directeur général, le  document 23 C/21.
49.4 Je tiens à remercier tous les participants à ce débat en .leur souhaitant  le plus grand succès dans les programmes en faveur de la jeunesse dont ils  peuvent être chargés dans leurs pays respectifs.
49.5 La séance est levée.  The meeting rose at 7.45 p.m.  La séance est levée à 19 h.45  Se levanta la sesión a las 19.45  Sacena~tie sa~pbisae~ccr B 19.45