Twentieth plenary meeting
19 October 1985 at 10.20 a.m.  President: Mr TODOROV (Bulgaria)  Vingtième séance plénière
19 OICTR~PR 1985 F. B 10.20  iïpeaceaaTenb: r-H TOAOPOB (Bonrapm)
721    FOURTH SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  QUATRIEME RAPPORT SUPPLEMENTAIRE DU PRESIDENT DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION  CUARTO INFORME COMPLEMENTARIO DEL PRESIDENTE  DEL CQMITE DE YERIFICACION DE PODERES  YETBEPTBR HQIIOJIHHTEJlbHBR LIOKJIAII iiPEACEQATEJIR KOMHTETA II0 llPOBEPKE llOJlHOMOYHtl  ji,! @.=A pldl &Li>21S+I  &%E *@fi &&%%El &+t9Hxfk
1.1 Le PRESIDENT :
2. Mr LUCXHOO (Guyana) Chairman of the Credentials Committee:  I have the honour to present the fourth supplementary report of the  Credentials Committee. Credentials in due form have been received from Malta.  Credentials in due form have also been received from Bangladesh, Democratic  Yemen, Panama and Zambia, which had previously submitted provisional credentials.  In pursuance of the authorization given to me by the Credentials Committee, I  recommend that all these credentials be accepted by the General Conference. Thank  you, Mr President.
3. Le PRESIDENT :  Président du Comité de verification des pouvoirs comme approuvées.  La séance est ouverte.  Je donne la parole au Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs.  S'il n'y a pas d'objections, je considère les recommandations du  ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD  ELECTION DE MEMBRES DU CONSEIL EXECUTIF  ELECCION DE MIEMBROS DEL CONSEJO EJECUTIVO  BbiEOPbi YJIEHOB HCiiOJIHHTEJIbHOrO COBETA  fi.'\;'.'" I I  -1 s Lesl u-1  &+&fiR@B
4.1 Le PRESIDENT :  Mesdames, Messieurs, à l'ordre du jour de nos travaux d'aujourd'hui  figure le point 12.1 (Election de membres du Conseil exécutif). Les documents à  considérer pour ce point sont : le document 23 C/NOM.2, 23 ClNOM.2 Corr. (anglais  seulement) et le document 23 C/101.
4.2 Avant de passer au vote, permettez-moi de rappeler brièvement la  procédure que nous allons suivre et qui sera régie par les dispositions du  Reglement intérieur de la Conférence générale et du Réglement sur les élections  au scrutin secret, sous .réserve des dispositions particulières régissant la  procédure d'élection des membres du Conseil exécutif. Tout d'abord, j 'inviterai  le Président du Comité des candidatures à présenter à la Conférence générale le  rapport du Comité des candidatures sur ce point (document 23 C/101). Je donnerai  ensuite la parole aux délégations qui souhaiteraient faire des déclarations.  Après. cela, je demanderai au Secrétaire de la Conférence générale de nous  rappeler les modalités de déroulement du scrutin. Je procéderai par la suite à la  désignation de quatre scrutateurs, après quoi nous pourrons procéder au vote. Une  fois le scrutin clos, le dépouillement du scrutin aura lieu dans une salle  distincte voisine de cette salle (la salle 4), sous la surveillance de M. Kagawa,  vice-président de la Conférence générale.
4.3 J'invite à présent le Président du Comité des candidatures à présenter à  la Conférence générale son rapport sur le point 12.1 (Election des membres du  Conseil exécutif).
(5.1) Mr VILLORO TORANZO (Mexico), Chairman of the Nominations Committee (Trans-  lation from the Spanish):  Hr President, distinguished delegates, you have before you document 23 C/101,  which refers to item 12.1 of the agenda, 'Election of members of the Executive Board'.  This document contains the report of the Chairman of the Nominations Committee on this  item. May I begin by reading out that report.
(5.2) In accordance with Rule 30, paragraph 4, of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference, the Nominations Committee at its fifth and sixth meetings, held on
16 and 17 October 1985, examined the nominations received for the 26 vacant seats on  the Executive Board. The Committee had before it document 23 C/NOM/2, the series of  documents from 23 C/NOM/2.1 to 23 C/NOM/2.47, and document 23 C/NOM/INF.l.
(5.3) At these two meetings the Nominations Committee noted the withdrawal of the  following candidates: from group III, Mr Alwin Andre Kramp (Suriname), Mr Daniel
724    Oduber Quirbs (Costa Rica) and Mrs Adela Reta Sosa Díaz (Uguguay); from group IV,  Mr Mohamed Ali Nadjafi (Islamic Republic of Iran); from group V, Mr Azzedine Guellouz  (Tunisia), Mr Mohamed Benbachir (Morocco) and Mr Abdusalam Sheikh Hussein Mohamed  (Somalia).
(5.4) The Committee also took note of the statement by the Chairman of sub-  group V (b) (Arab States) which said that, as a result of the withdrawal of the three  candidates referred to above, the following three nominations were supported by the  subgroup concerned: Mr Mohamed Brahimi El-Mili (Algeria), Mr Abdel Salan? Atallah  Majali (Jordan) and Mr Abdul-Aziz A. Torki (Qatar). It also took note of the statement  by the delegate of the Arab Republic of Egypt to the effect that, as a constitutional  member of subgroup V (b), his country was exercising its right to maintain the nomin-  ation of Mr Mohamed Fathallah El-Khatib.
(5.5) In addition, the Committee took note of the statement by the Chairman of  group III (Latin America and the Caribbean) informing it that the group had been  unable to reach an agreement to submit the same number of candidates as the number of  seats assigned to it. Nevertheless, following a consensus to take a vote within the  group and taking into consideration the results of that vote, the Chairman of  group III recommended the election of the following candidates: Mrs Elsa R.D. Kelly  (Argentina), Mr Rafael Pineda Ponce (Honduras), Mr Guillermo Putzeys Alvarez  (Guatemala), Mr Donald Sanders (Antigua and Barbuda), Mrs Sheilah Solomon (Trinidad  and Tobago) and Mr José Israel Vargas (Brazil).
(5.6) The Committee frirther took note of the statement made by the delegate of  Peru, announcing that his country was also exercising its right to maintain the nomin-  ation of Mr Alberto Wagner de Reyna. The delegate from Colombia also made a similar  statement announcing that the nomination of Mr Aurelio Caicedo Ayerbe was being  maintained.
(5.7) There was, in addition, a fairly protracted discussion on constitutional  questions affecting the election of members of the Executive Board. Some speakers  emphasized the need for the principle of rotation among Member States belonging to a  single electoral group to be more strictly observed.
(5.8) A number of speakers expressed the opinion that the General Conference should  show a greater interest in the recommendations made within the Committee by the elec-  toral groups concerning candidates belonging to those groups. Conversely, other  speakers expressed the opinion that the formation of electoral groups, as adopted by  the General Conference at its seventeenth session (17 C/Resolution 12.1) was aimed  exclusively at establishing a balance between the various regions and could not con-  stitute a mandate to those groups for the selection of candidates within any given  group.
(5.9) Lastly, some speakers strongly emphasized the need for the General Confer-  ence, in electing members of the Executive Board, to take into consideration all the  criteria set forth in Article V.A.2 of the Constitution, the text of which is re-  produced below:  'In electing the members of the Executive Board the General Conference shall  endeavour to include persons competent in the arts, the humanities, the  sciences, education and the diffusion of ideas, and qualified by their  experience and capacity to fulfil the administrative and executive duties of  the Board. It shall also have regard to the diversity of cultures and a  balanced geographical distribution. Not more than one national of any Member  State shall serve on the Board at any one time, the President of the Confer-  ence excepted.'
(5.10) After this discussion and having taken note of all these statements, the  Nominations Committee drew up the following list, by electoral group and in alpha-  betical order of the candidates' names, for submission to the General Conference:  group I (five seats to be filled, seven candidates): Mr Victor Pereira Crespo  (Portugal), Mr Georges-Henri Dumont (Belgium), Mr Walter Gehlhoff (Federal Republic of  Germany), Mr Turhan Oguzkan (Turkey), Mrs Maria Luisa Paronetto Valier (Italy),  Mrs Birgitta Ulvhammar (Sweden), Mr Edward Gough Whitlam (Australia), group II (two  seats to be filled, two candidates): Mr Siegfried Kaempf (German Democratic Republic),  Mr Milan Milanov (Bulgaria); group III (six seats to be filled, eight candidates):  Mr Aurelio Caicedo Ayerbe (.Colombia), Mrs Elsa R.D. Kelly (Argentina), Mr Rafael  Pineda Ponce (Honduras), Mr Guillermo Putzeys Alvarez (Guatemala), Mr Donald Sanders  (Antigua and Barbuda), Mrs Sheilah Solomon (Trinidad and Tobago), Mr José Israel  Vargas (Brazil), Mr Alberto Wagner de Reyna (Peru); group IV (three seats to be  filled, three candidates): Mr Sardar Swaran Singh (India), Mr Doddy Achdiat Tisna  Amidjaja (Indonesia), Mr Zhao Fusan (China); group V (a) (African countries) (seven  seats to be filled, 16 candidates): Mr Paul Yao Akoto (Côte d'Ivoire), Mrs Judith Sefi  Attah (Nigeria), Mr Anthony L.R. Blain (Gambia), Mr Léon Louis Boissier-Palaun  (Benin), Mr Hilaire Bouhoyi (Congo), Mr Fidelis Cabral de Almada (Guinea-Bissau),
725    Mr André Corsino Tolentino (Cape Verde), Mr Federico Edjo ûvono (Equatorial Guinea) ,  Mr N'Tji Idriss Mariko (Mali), Mr J.K. Mbalulu (Kenya), Mr Moukhtar Bachar Moukhtar  (Chad), Mr Adamou Ndam Njoya (Cameroon), Mr Zaïnoul Abidine Sanoussi (Guinea),  Mr Komlanvi F. Seddoh (Togo), Mr Alemayehu Teferra (Ethiopia), Mr Iba Der Thiam  (Senegal); group V (b) (Arab States) (three seats to be filled, four candi-  dates): Mr Mohamed Brahimi El-Mili (Algeria), Mr Mohamed Fathallah El-Khatib (Egypt),  Mr Abdel Salam Atallah Majali (Jordan), Mr Abdul-Aziz A. Torki (Qatar).
(5.11) This, then, was the report of the Nominations Committee on its fifth and  sixth meetings. Mr President, after the report which I have just read out had been  printed, I received fresh information. The Chairman of the African group conveyed to  me a communication, duly signed by all the delegations concerned, informing me of the  withdrawal of the following candidates: Mrs Judith Sefi Attah, of Nigeria, Mr Anthony  L.R. Blain, of Gambia, Mr Fidelis Cabral de Almada, of Guinea-Bissau, Mr André Corsino  Tolentino, of Cape Verde, Mr Federico Edjo ûvono, of Equatorial Guinea,  Mr J.K. Mbalulu, of Kenya, Mr Moukhtar Bachar Moukhtar, of Chad, Mr Zaïnoul Abidine  Sanoussi, of Guinea and Mr Komlanvi F. Seddoh, of Togo.
(5.12) I therefore request you to remove the names of the persons I have just men-  tioned from the list of candidates contained in document 23 C/101, which I previously  read out, so as to avoid any mistakes in the voting. The African group has conse-  quently decided to submit for approval by the General Conference the remaining seven  candidates to fill the seven vacant seats. I shall read their names out again for  greater clarity: Mr Paul Yao Akoto (Cate d'Ivoire), Mr Léon Louis Boissier-Palun  (Benin), Mr Hilaire Bouhoyi (Congo), Mr N'Tji Idriss Mariko (Mali), Mr Adamou Ndam  Njoya (Cameroon), Mr Alemayehu Teferra (Ethiopia) and Mr Iba Der Thiam (Senegal.).
(5.13) I must draw your attention to the fact that notification of the withdrawal of  the nomination of one of the countries mentioned above, namely, Guinea, unfortunately  reached us after the ballot papers were printed, so do not be surprised to find on the  ballot paper for group V (a) - the group of African countries - in addition to the  above seven names an eighth name, that of the candidate initially submitted by Guinea,  which has now been withdrawn. I shall leave it to the Secretary of the General Confer-  ence to explain to you now the appropriate voting procedure in this case. This,  Mr President, is the information I had to add to the report submitted by the Nomin-  ations Committee. Thank you.
6. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le Président du Comité des candidatures. Un certain nombre  de pays ont émis le voeu de faire des déclarations. Je donne tout d'abord la  parole au délégué de la Colombie.
(7) Mr CAICEDO AYERBE (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, as representative of Colombia I have the following statement to  make. Two days ago the Colombian Government was intending to withdraw its nomination  to the Executive Board. Yesterday, however, after considering the matter afresh and in  view of the fact that several friendly countries representing various regions and  political systems requested us to maintain our nomination, since Colombia is the only  country of the Contadora Group to submit a candidate for election - the Contadora  Group having been awarded the International Sim6n Bolivar Prize by Unesco - and in  view also of the fact that Colombia's election to the Executive Board does not upset  the balance of the region's representation or affect that of two English-speaking  Caribbean countries for which we shall vote, my government has given me instructions  to maintain the nomination of Colombia to the Executive Board. In announcing and con-  firming this information, I seek the support of the international community which we  wish to serve. Thank you very much, Mr President.
8. Le PRESIDENT :  du Costa Rica.  Je remercie le délégué de la Colombie et je donne la parole au délégué
(9.1) Mr MOURELO AGUILAR (Costa Rica) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. I wish to explain for the record the reasons why  Costa Rica, in its desire for unity, withdrew its nomination to the Executive Board,  in a note submitted to the Latin America and the Caribbean Group and addressed to its  Chairman on Monday, 7 October, which I shall now read out:  'Mr Guillermo Putzeys Alvarez, Chairman of the Latin America and the Carib-  bean Group at Unesco. Mr Chairman, I respectfully request you to convey the  following to the members of the Latin America and the Caribbean Group at its  meeting of Monday, 7 October 1985: The Permanent Delegation of Costa Rica to  Unesco, which I have the honour to head, acting on instructions from its  government, has decided to withdraw its nomination to the Executive Board at  the twenty-third session of the General Conference of Unesco. It has done so  for the sake of unity among the Latin American and Caribbean countries which  was, unfortunately, lacking in a desire to contribute to a dispassionate  climate for reflecting on the problems of Unesco, in the hope that the agree-  ments reached by group III will be respected and that the representatives of  Latin America and the Caribbean in the Executive Board of Unesco will explain  and uphold in the Board the decisions taken jointly by the Group demanding  the implementation of Unesco resolutions concerning the rotation of countries  and their representatives on the Executive Board, and also in view of the  technical difficulties of conducting our work in the appropriate manner. It  consequently requests the Chairman of the Latin America and the Caribbean  Group, Mr Guillermo Putzeys Alvarez, to bring this decision to the attention  of the Nominations Committee for the correct procedure to be followed.  Hernán González Gutierrez, Minister of Culture, Youth and Sport of Costa  Rica, Head of Delegation'.
(9.2) As Permanent Delegate of Costa Rica, I wish to state the following: to the  candidates of the countries with whom we exchanged votes, I repeat that Costa Rica  will abide by its word, both here and in other international organizations, and we  hope that they in turn will support our nominations to the World Heritage Committee  and the Intergovernmental Council of the International Hydrological Programme. Thank  you, Mr President, and good luck to all.
10. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le délégué du Costa Rica et je donne la parole au délégué du  Kenya.
11.1 Mr MUHOHO (Kenya)  Thank you, Mr President. I just wanted to take a few minutes to explain  why Kenya withdrew her candidate for membership of the Executive Board.  Mr President, we had put up our name in the belief that the East African region  was entitled: to two seats. We had all agreed that the seat vacated by Tanzania  should be given to our friends from Ethiopia.
11.2 However, Mr President, in the course of our discussions within the  African Group, it became evident that we needed to play a more conciliatory role  so as to try and arrive at consensus, and it was in the spirit of that consensus  that we agreed not to press for the extra seat. That decision was, however, con-  ditional on a restructuration of the allocation of seats within the African  region to ensure equitable distribution, so that the various subgroups will only  have seats commensurate with the number of States they represent.
11.3 This condition has been accepted by the African Group and will, we hope,  be implemented before the end of this session. We would therefore, Mr President,  wish to thank those delegations which had promised their support for us and to  ask for their understanding of OUT withdrawal. Thank you, Mr President.
12. Le PRESIDENT :  République.centrafricaine.
13.1 M. BLAGUE (République centrafricaine) :  Je vous remercie Monsieur le Président. Je m'exprimerai essentiellement  en ma qualité de Président du groupe électoral africain pour remercier tout  d'abord M. l'ambassadeur Villoro-Toranzo qui a fait un compte rendu absolument  fidèle aussi bien des différentes démarches que des décisions arrêtées par le  groupe africain. Nous tenions à saluer ce rapport et, à cette occasion, à dire  combien le choix qui avait été fait de la personne de M. l'ambassadeur  Villoro-Toranzo honore non seulement son groupe mais également la Conférence  générale tout entière.
13.2 Le groupe africain, Monsieur le Président, dans sa tradition séculaire  de recherche de l'unité et du renforcement du consensus, a réussi, en dépit de  quelques difficultés de parcours, à présenter à la Conférence générale, pour les  sept postes qui reviennent au Groupe V.A (groupe africain), sept candidats. Nous  osons espérer que tous nos amis de la communauté internationale sauront prêter  une attention favorable à cette liste afin de permettre à notre groupe, en  collaboration avec tous les groupes représentés au sein de la famille de  l'Unesco, de continuer à oeuvrer pour le renforcement de notre Organisation et  pour la dynamisation toujours plus exigeante de la coopération internationale.
13.3 Comme vous le savez, Monsieur le Président, le Groupe électoral V est  composé de deux sous-groupes. Nous voudrions donc appeler l'attention des  honorables membres de la Conférence générale sur le fait qu'il y a pour le groupe  électoral V.A sept sièges à pourvoir, et pour le Groupe électoral V.B trois  sièges à pourvoir. Nous le disons pour qu'il n'y ait pas de confusion lorsque  l'on parle du Groupe électoral V dans son ensemble. Voilà, Monsieur le Président,  ce que je tenais à dire au nom du groupe africain. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le  Président.
14. Le PRESIDENT :  parole au délégué de la Guinée.
15. M. YANSANE (Guinée) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, la  République de Guinée a eu, très tôt ce matin, un entretien au niveau le plus  élevé avec le Groupe africain à Sofia. Nonobstant les motifs et les mobiles  objectifs qui fondaient notre candidature cette année, la Guinée, dont on connaît  la contribution positive à la création et à la consolidation de l'unité afri-  caine, a finalement décidé de retirer sa candidature. La Guinée tient à en  informer dans cette salle ses très nombreux amis et leur lance un appel pour  qu'ils soutiennent tous ensemble les sept candidats du groupe africain. Je vous  remercie, Monsieur le Président.
17.1 Mr LUCKHOO (Guyana) :  Thank you, Mr President. In as much as this is a full assembly of the  General Conference I would like to repeat the words utterea by the leader of my  delegation, the Minister of Education for Guyana, who unfortunately could not be  Je remercie le délégué du Kenya et je donne la parole au délégué de la  Je remercie le délégué de la République centrafricaine et je donne la  Je remercie le délégué de la Guinée, et je donne la parole au délégué du
20  here today, at the conclusion of his address to the General Conference in the  course of the general policy debate. He said, 'I would also like to express the  hope that the distinguished delegates to this Conference will acknowledge the  justice of the Caribbean claim for increased representation on the Executive  Board by electing, this week, our two eminent candidates - one from Trinidad and  Tobago, the other from Antigua and Barbuda. I know they would serve with ability  and distinction.' Mr President, I am sure that the Conference will take that  statement into account when assessing how the voting should go in relation to  Group III.
17.2 But may I recall that the distinguished Chairman of the Nominations Com-  mmittee reminded the General Conference this morning inter alia that it should  also have regard to the diversity of cultures and a balanced geographical distri-  bution. And may I also remind the General Conference of the position taken by  Costa Rica in announcing the reasons for its withdrawal, namely recognition of  the principle of rotation which implies the need to speed up considerably the  rotation cycle and offer the opportunity to a greater number of Member States to  participate in the activities of the Board.,
17.3 Mr President, one cannot lightly ignore decisions taken by separate  electoral groups. When an electoral group meets in order to try and assess the  legitimacy of the candidatures of the several persons presenting their claims for  nomination, a great deal of effort goes into trying to see who would best fit  into the geographical setting, the cultural setting, and also to take into  account the qualification of the various persons who should be nominated or  recommended for presentation to the General Conference. Therefore, since the  Chairman of the Nominations Committee announced that there were six candidates  from Group III who were recommended by the group after a process of voting in a  democratic manner, those countries being Guatemala, Antigua and Barbuda, Trinidad  and Tobago, Brazil, Argentina and Honduras, I believe that the General Conference  will not fail to regard that as being a relevant matter for consideration when  casting its vote. Of course, other candidates have the right to maintain their  stand, but how could one fail to ignore that positive recommendation which eman-  ated from Group III? I have no doubt, Mr President, that that will be taken into  account.
17.4 For a long time, Mr President, the Caribbean Group has suffered as a  result of an imbalance in representation. For a long time, the Caribbean Group  has watched its numbers grow, to the extent that today there are 13 Member States  representing the English- and Dutch-speaking Caribbean out of a total of 33  Member States in Group III. And I believe it is the call of justice, I believe  it is the call of fair play, I believe it is the call of equity that the Carib-  bean presence should be acknowledged by a full endorsement of the two States,  Antigua and Barbuda and Trinidad and Tobago, which have submitted their candi-  datures, which have been duly endorsed by Group III. May I commend these con-  siderations to the General. Conference as its passes to the very serious moment of  casting its vote in relation to Group III. Thank you, Mr President.
18. Le PRESIDENT :  arabe syrienne à prendre la parole.  Je remercie le délégué du Guyana et j'invite le délégué de la République  ( '&>+I 'L+l '&>+I) 6-N I /@I 19
(19) Mr CHOUERI (Syrian Arab Republic) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. I should like to thank the Chairman of the Nomin-  ations Committee for his useful report, and Mr Blagué, the Chairman of the Africa  group, for his remarks concerning group V (a). With regard to the Arab group, that is  to say group V (b), our group stated in the Nominations committee and in the course of  contacts between its members and those of the other groups that the official Arab can-  didates, selected as they have been through a two-stage process involving both the  League of Arab States and our electoral group (group V (b), are: Mr Mohamed Brahimi  El-Mili (Algeria), Mr Abdel Salam Atallah Majali (Jordan) and Mr Abdul Aziz Abdullah
729    Turki (Qatar). In its contacts with the other electoral groups, the Arab group under-  took to be firmly bound by their decisions, and would be grateful if those groups  reciprocated with corresponding sincerity, respect and goodwill. Thank you,  Mr President.
20. Le PRESIDENT :  parole au délégué de 1'Egypte.  Je remercie le délégué de la République arabe syrienne et je donne la
(21) Mr MAHMOUD (Egypt) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr President, before the meeting takes action I should like to bring a  certain matter to its attention, simply to set things in order and clarify the situ-  ation. Mr President, under the Organization's basic documents Egypt is a member of  electoral group V (b). It was one of the founding members of Unesco, and by virtue of  its ancient culture and civilization, its close and highly valued ties with the com-  munity of nations, its strong bonds with Africa and the Non-Aligned Movement and its  support for the liberation movements, Egypt sincerely wishes to continue stepping up  its efforts in the future, especially in the framework of Unesco. I hereby confirm  Egypt's candidature for membership of the Executive Board, relying as it is on the  confidence of the distinguished delegations of the Member States. Mr President, we  wish to make it clear that the Arab group took its decision in the absence of Egypt,  which was not invited to attend its meetings. The measures taken by that group were  therefore undemocratic and have no binding force whatsoever. As a result, Egypt hereby  confirms its candidature and lays it before this Conference, in the full confidence  that it will meet with the esteem and endorsement it deserves. Thank you,  Mr President.
22. Le PRESIDENT :  la République islamique d'Iran.
23. M. FEIZ (République islamique d'Iran) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Comme il est indiqué dans le rapport du  Président du Comité des candidatures publié sous la cote 23 C/101, la République  islamique d'Iran a retiré sa candidature au Conseil exécutif. La raison de ce  retrait tient uniquement au souci de préserver l'unité et la solidarité de notre  Groupe électoral IV (Groupe Asie et Pacifique). Durant cette Conférence, cer-  taines délégations appartenant à notre groupe ainsi qu'à d'autres groupes ont  fait connaître leur désir d'appuyer notre candidature. Je tiens ici à remercier  chaleureusement mes amis, mes frères, qui ont bien voulu nous appuyer. Merci,  Monsieur le Président.
24. Le PRESIDENT :  délégué du Venezuela à prendre la parole.
(25) Mr ROCHE (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish)!  Mr President, I merely wish to make a brief clarification. In his eloquent  statement, my friend the distinguished delegate Professor Luckhoo requested support
20  for the countries of the Caribbean. I should like to point out that this concerns, of  course, the English-speaking Caribbean and not the Spanish-speaking countries of the  Caribbean such as Cuba, the Dominican Republic , Venezuela, Colombia and the majority  of the Central American republics. His reference to the Caribbean should therefore be  interpreted as meaning only the English-speaking Caribbean. Thank you very much.
26. Le PRESIDENT :  Cuba à prendre la parole.  Je remercie le délégué du Venezuela et j'invite maintenant le délégué de
(27. I) Mr BOLAÑOS SUAREZ (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish) :  Mr President, distinguished delegates, as can be imagined, my country cannot  but agree with any decision taken in a spirit of unity and consensus. Consequently,  Mr President, there is nothing more desirable than that such a climate should prevail,  first and foremost within our group. We do consider it necessary, however, that we  should speak out clearly in favour of unconditional respect for the constitutional  right of every State to uphold its nomination before the plenary meetings of the  General Conference, which brings together the sovereign States here present.
(27.2) In the particular case of our group, we are able to support this right of its  member countries which, as the distinguished representative of Venezuela has said,  include, in addition to English-speaking countries, countries like Cuba, the Dominican  Republic and Haiti and which will also, I am sure, in the future - why not? - include  Puerto Rico. Having made this clear, Mr President, my delegation wishes to support  publicly the sovereign right of Colombia and Peru, distinguished members of the  Contadora Group, the Latin America and the Caribbean Group and the Movement of Non-  Aligned Countries, to maintain their nominations. Thank you very much, Mr President.
28. Le PRESIDENT :  Bénin.  Je remercie le délégué de Cuba et je donne la parole au délégué du
29.1 M. BOISSIER-PALUN (Bénin) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je demande simplement la parole pour  proposer au Bureau des mesures d'ordre pratique. 11 vient de vous être indiqué  que le groupe africain s'est entendu pour vous présenter sept candidats pour sept  postes à pourvoir. Mais la conclusion du Président de la Commission des candi-  datures, qui datait d'un moment où il y avait encore des candidatures qui  n'étaient pas retirées, a servi de base à l'impression des bulletins du  Groupe V.A.
29.2 Je demande expressément au Bureau, pour que le règlement qui régit les  élections au Conseil exécutif soit pleinement respecté, de faire en sorte que le  bulletin concernant le Groupe V ne comporte que les noms des candidats régu-  lièrement déclarés maintenant et soutenus par le Groupe. Je pense que, sans  retarder les opérations électorales, cela apportera plus de clarté dans le vote.  Merci, Monsieur le Président.
30. Le PRESIDENT :  Je donne la parole au Secrétaire de la Conférence générale qui va  répondre à la question posée par le délégué du Bénin, et qui nous expliquera  ensuite la procédure à suivre pour le scrutin.
31. Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, l'impression d'un  nouveau bulletin pour le Groupe électoral V demanderait environ une demi-heure.
731    I1 serait peut-êtke opportun, si la Conférence n'y voit pas d'inconvénient, que  vous suspendiez la séance pour cette durée et que j'explique ensuite, après la  reprise de la séance et avant de passer au vote, la procédure à suivre.
32. Le PRESIDENT :  Je 'préférerais que vous expliquiez dès maintenant la procédure. Les  bulletins commenceraient d'être imprimés pendant ce temps et cela nous ferait  gagner un quart d'heure.
33. Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Voici donc la procédure qui sera appli-  quée. Une fois que nous disposerons des bulletins en bonne et due forme, le  secrétariat distribuera aux délégations une enveloppe avec cinq bulletins de vote  de couleur différente selon les cinq groupes électoraux. Ces bulletins porteront  chacun les noms de tous les candidats présentés pour le groupe électoral en  cause. Les votants barreront les noms des candidats pour lesquels ils ne sou-  haitent pas voter. Seront considérés comme des abstentions les bulletins sur  lesquels tous les noms auront été barrés. Sera considéré comme nul tout bulletin  sur lequel il restera plus de noms qu'il n'y a de sièges à pourvoir dans celui  des groupes électoraux auquel se rapporte ce bulletin. Ne sera pas considéré  comme nul un bulletin sur lequel il restera moins de noms qu'il n'y a de sièges à  pourvoir dans celui des groupes électoraux auquel se rapporte ce bulletin. Les  délégations seront appelées successivement par le Secrétaire dans l'ordre  alphabétique anglais des Etats membres, en commençant par l'Australie dont le nom  a été tiré au sort, et elles déposeront leurs bulletins placés sous une seule  enveloppe dans l'urne se trouvant devant la tribune. Merci, Monsieur le  Président.
34. Le PRESIDENT :  suspendue pour une vingtaine de minutes.  Ces explications me semblent tout à fait claires. La séance est  (La séance est suspendue à 11 h.20 ; elle est reprise à 11 h.45)
35.1 Le PRESIDENT :  Nous pouvons recommencer nos travaux. Je dois tout d'abord désigner  quatre scrutateurs. Sont chargées de la fonction de scrutateur les personnes  suivantes : M. Bakassa Bakayoko (Côte d'Ivoire), Mme Marie-Denise Jean (Haïti),  Mme Rita Solis Ferreiro (Cuba) et Mme Edith Tamagnini (Saint-Marin). Je les  invite à bien vouloir prendre place à la table des scrutateurs.  (Les quatre scrutateurs prennent place à côté de l'urne)  Le Secrétaire va procéder à l'appel des Etats membres.  (Le vote a lieu par appel nominal conformément à la procédure indiquée)
35.3 Les scrutateurs vont maintenant procéder au dépouillement qui se fera  dans la salle 4. Je demande à M. Kagawa de venir prendre possession de la clé de  l'urne.
35.4 Je suspens la séapce afin de permettre le dépouillement.  (La séance est suspendue à 12 h.35 ; elle est reprise à 15 h.40)
35.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, je vais maintenant vous donner lecture des  résultats du scrutin.  Grou e I, pour lequel il y avait 5 sièges à pourvoir. Nombre d'Etats 35.6  membres ayant e droit de vote à la présente session : 153 i absents : 3 ;  abstentions : 1 ; bulletins nuls : 8 ; nombre d'Etats absents aux termes du  paragraphe III (11.13) de la Procédure d'élection des membres du Conseil exé-  cutif : 1. Nombre de suffrages exprimés : 140 ; nombre de voix constituant la  majorité requise pour être élu : 71. Noms des candidats et nombre de voix  obtenues par chacun d'eux dans l'ordre décroissant des suffrages :  Mme Maria Luisa Paronetto Valier (Italie) : 119 ; M. Walter Gehlhoff (République  fédérale d'Allemagne) : 114 ; Mme Birgitta Ulvhammar (Suède) : 112 ; M. Edward  Gough Whitlam (Australie) : 106 ; M. Georges-Henri Dumont (Belgique) : 100 ;  M. Victor Pereira Crespo (Portugal) : 54 ; M. Turhan Oguzkan (Turquie) : 45.
35.7 Mme Maria Luisa PARONETTO VALIER (Italie), M. Walter GEHLHOFF (Répu-  blique fédérale d'Allemagne), Mme Birgitta ULVHAMMAR (Suède), M. Edward Gough  WHITLAM (Australie) et M. Georges-Henri DUMONT (Belgique) ont obtenu le plus  grand nombre de voix et réuni la majorité requise. Je les déclare u.  --ET
20  Grou e II, pour lequel il y avait deux sièges B pourvoir. Nombre d'Etats 35.8  membres ayant e droit de vote B la présente session : 153 ; absents : 3 ;  abstentions : 2 ; bulletins nuls : zéro ; nombre d'Etats absents aux termes du  paragraphe III (11.13) de la Procédure d'élection des membres du Conseil exé-  cutif : 1. Nombre de suffrages exprimés : 147 ; nombre de voix constituant la  majorité requise pour être élu : 74. Noms des candidats et nombre de voix  obtenues par chacun d'eux dans l'ordre décroissant des suffrages : M. Milan  MILANOV (Bulgarie) : 144 ; M. Siegfried KAEMPF (République démocratique alle-  mande) : 143.
35.9 Ces deux candidats ayant recueilli la majorité requise, je les déclare  élus.
35.10 Grou e III, pour lequel il y avait 6 sièges à pourvoir. Nombre d'Etats  membres a h r o i t  de vote à la présente session 153 ; absents : 3 ; abs-  tentions : zéro ; bulletins nuls : 6 ; nombre d'Etats absents aux termes du  paragraphe III (11.13) de la Procédure d'élection des membres du Conseil  exécutif : 1. Nombre de suffrages exprimés : 143 ; nombre de voix constituant la  majorité requise pour être élu : 72. Noms des candidats et nombre de voix  obtenues par chacun d'eux dans l'ordre décroissant des suffrages : M. José  Israel Vargas (Brésil) : 121 ; Mme Elsa R.D. Kelly (Argentine) : 115 ;  Mme Sheila Solomon (Trinité-et-Tobago) : 115 ; M. Donald Sanders (Antigua-et-  Barbuda) : 113 ; M. Aurelio Caicedo Ayerbe (Colombie) : 93 ; M. Alberto Wagner de  Reyna (Pérou) : 89 ; M. Guillermo Putzeys Alvarez (Guatemala) :. 82 ; M. Rafael  Pineda Ponce (Honduras) : 57.
35.11 M. José Israel VARGAS (Brésil), Mme Elsa R.D. KELLY (Argentine),  Mme Sheilah SOLOMON (Trinité et Tobago), M. Donald SANDERS (Antigua-et-Barbuda),  M. Aurelio CAICEDO AYERBE (Colombie) et M. Alberto WAGNER de REYNA (Pérou) ont  obtenu le plus grand nombre de voix et réuni la majorité requise. Je les déclare  élus.
35.12 Groupe IV, pour lequel il y avait trois sièges à pourvoir. Nombre  d'Etats membres ayant le droit de vote, à la présente session : 153 ;  absents : 3 ; abstentions : zéro ; bulletins nuls : zéro ; nombre d'Etats absents  au terme du paragraphe III (11.13) de la Procédure d'élection des membres du  Conseil exécutif : 1. Nombre de suffrages exprimés : 149. Nombre de voix  constituant la majorité requise pour être élu : 75. Noms des candidats et nombre  de voix obtenues par chacun d'eux dans l'ordre décroissant des suffrages :  M. Sardar Swaran SINGH (Inde) : 146 ; M. Doddy Achdiat TISNA AMIDJAJA (Indo-  nésie) : 142 ; M. ZHAO Fusan (Chine) : 142.
35.13 Ces trois candidats ayant recueilli la majorité requise, je les déclare  élus.
35.14 Groupe V.A, pour lequel il y avait sept sièges à pourvoir : Nombre  d'Etats membres ayant le droit de vote à la présente session : 153 ; ab-  sents : 3 ; abstentions : zéro ; bulletins nuls : 9 ; nombre d'Etats absents aux  termes du paragraphe III (11.13) de la Procédure d'élection des membres du  Conseil exécutif : zéro. Nombre de suffrages exprimés : 141 ; nombre de voix  constituant la majorité requise pour être élu : 71. Noms des candidats et nombre  de voix obtenues par chacun d'eux dans l'ordre décroissant des suffrages :  M. N'Tji Idrissa MARIKO (Mali) : 121 ; M. Adamou NDAM NJOYA (Cameroun) : 121 ;  M. Hilaire BOUHOYI (Congo) : 117 ; M. Alemayehu TEFERRA (Ethiopie) : 117 ; M. Iba  Der THIAM (Sénégal) - 116 ; M. Paul Yao AKOTO (Côte d'Ivoire) : 109 ; M. Léon  Louis BOISSIER-PALUN iBénin) : 89.
35.15 Ces sept candidats ayant recueilli la majorité requise, je les déclare  élus.
35.16 Grou e V B pour lequel il y avait trois sièges à pourvoir : Nombre  d'Etats m h i a n t  le droit de vote à la présente session : 153 ; ab-  sents : 3 ; abstentions : zéro ; bulletins nuls : 9 ; nombre d'Etats absents aux  termes du paragraphe III (11.13) de la Procédure d'élection des membres du  Conseil exécutif : zéro. Nombre de suffrages exprimés : 141 ; nombre de voix  constituant la majorité requise pour être élu : 71. Noms des candidats et nombre  de voix obtenues par chacun d'eux dans l'ordre décroissant des suffrages :  M. Mohamed Fathallah El-Khatib (Egypte) - 117 ; M. Abdel Salam Atallah Majali  (Jordanie) : 93 ; M. Mohamed Brahimi Ei-Mili (Algérie) : 90 ; M. Abdul Aziz  Abdullah Turki (Qatar) : 79.
35.17 M. Mohamed Fathallah EL-KHATIB (Egypte) , M. Abdel Salam Atallah MAJALI  (Jordanie), M. Mohamed BRAHIMI EL-MILI (Algérie), ayant obtenu le plus grand  nombre de voix et réuni la majorité requise, je les déclare élus.
35.18  (Applaudissements)  -57-  I1 me res$e à féliciter les candidats qui ont été élus.
35.19 J'appelle aussi votre attention sur l'article 18 du Règlement sur les  élections au scrutin secret qui est libellé comme suit : "Immédiatement après la  proclamation des résultats du scrutin, les bulletins de vote sont brûlés en  présence des scrutateurs ." J'invite donc le Secrétaire et les scrutateurs à  prendre les dispositions requises.
35.20 Je donne la parole au délégué du Guatemala.
(36) Mr PUTZEYS ALVAREZ (Guatemala) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr President. I take the floor to extend very cordial  congratulations to all the candidates who have been elected, particularly those  belonging to group III, and to wish them all great success in their work. I should  also like to place on record my gratitude to group III for the support it has given to  me personally. Thank you very much.
37. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le délégué du Guatemala. La séance est levée.  The meeting rose at 4 p.m.  La séance est levée à 16 heures  Se levanta la sesión a las 16.00  Sacename saIcpbisaeTcR B 16.00  #I ,re, c p .  '%.CUI & kJ  &XT 16 El#%*