Sixth plenary meeting
10 October 1985 at 3.05 p.m.  President: Mr TODOROV (Bulgaria)  Sixième séance plénière
10 O I C T S I ~ ~ R  1985 r. B 15.05  ïïpencenaTenb: r-H TOJlOPOB (Eonrapax)
159    COMMUNICATION RECEIVED FROM A MEMBER STATE INVOKING THE PROVISIONS OF  ARTICLE IV.C, PARAGRAPH 8 (c), OF THE CONSTITUTION  COMMUNICATION RECUE D'UN ETAT MEMBRE INVOQUANT LES DISPOSITIONS DE  L'ARTICLE IV.C, PARAGRAPHE 8 (c), DE L'ACTE CONSTITUTIF  COMUNICAPION RECIBT,DA DE UN ESTADO MIEMBRO, EN QUE SE INVOCAN LAS DISPOSICIONES  DEL ARTICULO IV C ,  PARRAFO 8 c), DE LA PONGTITUSION  IIOJIOXEHMR IIYHICTA 8 (c) CTATbH IV C YCTABA  -'I'&& BI@ $I9E%k%T&% 8(c)&&$kW%a  COOB14EHHEr llOJIY'4EHHOE OT OIIHOI'O M3 ïOCY.IIAPCTB-YJIEHOB, KACAIOIJIEECR  --I 3-1 ,y '&I>$l 6 JLdl ,p (+) A Z y l  p&f y'l ,y Z.3~12 "JLJ
1.1 Le PRESIDENT :  Je déclare ouverte la sixième séance plénière. Avant de reprendre le  débat de politique générale, je dois vous informer que le Directeur général a  reçu d'un Etat membre, la Mauritanie, une communication dans laquelle ce pays  invoque les dispositions de l'article IV.C, paragraphe 8(c), de l'Acte consti-  tutif en vue d'être autorisé à participer au vote lors de la Conférence générale.
1.2 S'il n'y a pas d'objections, je considère cette demande comme approuvée.  ELECTION OF A VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE CONFERENCE  ELECTION D'UN VICE-PRESIDENT DE LA CONFERENCE  ELECCION DE UN VICEPRESIDENTE DE LA CONFERENCIA  BbiBOPbi 3AMECTkITEJIR TlPEJlCERATEJIR rEHEPAJIbHOn KOHQEPEHUkIU  +$joJl u"&>+L; yLjuI  ì & & 4  *&El4 kR
2. Le PRESIDENT :  D'autre part, je voudrais demander au Président du Comité des candi-  datures de soumettre à la Conférence générale la recommandation du Comité relatif  au poste de vice-président de la Conférence générale qui reste à pourvoir.  Monsieur le Président du Comité, vous avez la parole.
(3) Mr VILLORO TORANZO (Mexico), Chairman of the Nominations Committee (Trans-  lation from the Spanish):  Mr President, I should like to remind you that at the third plenary meeting  of the General Conference I submitted to you the recommendations of the Nominations  Committee concerning 35 posts of Vice-president of the General Conference. Subse-  quently, at its second meeting, on 9 October 1985, the Committee unanimously decided  to recommend as Vice-president of the General Conference the distinguished Head of the  Delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran, thus bringing the number of Vice-  Presidents up to 36, as recommended by the Executive Board at its 122nd session and by  the General Conference at its third plenary meeting. That, Mr President, is the report  I was required to submit on behalf of the Nominations Committee. Thank you.
4. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le Président du Comité des candidatures. Conformément à la  procédure que nous avons adoptée, je considère, en l'absence d'objections, que la  Conférence générale ado te la recornandation tendant à élire le chef de la  délégation de la Répu+ ique islamique d'Iran au poste de vice-président de la  Conférence générale.
5. Le PRESIDENT :  Nous poursuivons maintenant notre débat de politique générale avec
1 intervention de S. Exc. M. Abdelhadi Boutaleb, Directeur général de 1 'Orga-  nisation islamique pour l'éducation, la science et la culture.
(6.1) Mr BOUTALEB (Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization -  ISESCO) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, I am pleased to speak today hefore the twenty-third session of the General  Confermce of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization  (Unesco), meeting here in the historic city of Sofia, on behalf of the Islamic Edu-  cational, Scientific' and Cultural Organization (ISESCO), which is composed of 35  Islamic States. First of all I would like to congratulate Mr Todorov on the confidence  which the Conference showed in him by entrusting him with the task of presiding over  the current session. I am certain even now that this choice and Mr Todorov's long  experience inside and outside of Unesco will contribute to the successful results that  we expect this Conference to achieve. I would also like to commend the generous hospi-  tality and organizational efficiency with which the Government of Bulgaria has  received the delegations of the governments and organizations participating in this  Conference. I would like to offer a special word of appreciation to my brother and  colleague, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, the Director-General, for ensuring that this Con-  ference is being held under the most favourable and most auspicious conditions. This  achievement is a further triumph for his well-balanced and objective long-range  policy. The eloquent address which he delivered before us yesterday is a good indi-  cation. of his intellectual and managerial abilities, which have helped to give Unesco  the success and influence it has enjoyed throughout the eleven years of his tenure.
(6.2) We regard every achievement made by Unesco in any of its fields of competence  as an achievement for ISESCO as well and a praiseworthy effort to harness goodwill in  the service of noble human values through the actions of governments, organizations  and institutions. This is hardly surprising, for the majority of ISESCO Member States  are also active members of Unesco. Moreover, both organizations are specialized inter-  governmental agencies whose activities are simil-ar in nature through different in  scale and scope, and although their methods and approaches may differ, they do share  the same goals. Both organizations are unremittingly striving to lay f i m  foundations  for modern development, thereby helping to bring about a better future for all  mankind.
(6.3) Mr Presiderit, ever since its establishment three-and-a-half years ago as a  Specialized Agency of the organization of the Islamic Conference in the fields of edu-  cation, science and culture, ISESCO has sought to co-operate with Unesco. This co-  operation has grown year by year, not to say month by month, as ISESCO has success-  fully completed its formative stage and become qualified to carry out its responsi-  bilities fully in all its fields of competence. There is no better evidence of this  maturity, if we may be permitted to use the term, than the success of the second  General Conference of ISESCO which was held last September at Islamabad in Pakistan.  It was attended by the Ministers of Education of all the member Islamic countries and  by a large number of governmental and intergovernmental organizations and agencies,  including Unesco. One of the major achievements of that Conference was the adoption of  a three-year work plan with programmes that are analogous to those of Unesco in many  areas: the wide and varied fields of education, the modernization of science teaching  and the effort to disseminate knowledge and culture as widely as possible so as to  help familiarize every individual and group with the positive aspects, recent achieve-  ments and current issues of modern life.
(6.4) In view of the conside'rable importance of financial resources for any organ-  ization, I would like to make special mention here of some of the financial formulae  upon which the new ISESCO work plan is based. Our policy at ISESCO has been to seek to  increase productivity and maintain most programmes while abiding by the principle of  gradual budgetary growth. While this difficult equation might appear at first sight to  be an attempt to square the circle - especially to you, who have had considerable  experience with the problems of finance - I am confident that the best way to ensure  both productivity and economy and to achieve progress on a rational and realistic  basis is to work to adapt institutions to their environmental and cultural surround-  ings and to make them responsive to immediate social needs without sacrificing quality  and excellence.
(6.5) The need for this approach is most evident in the sensitive field of the  fight against illiteracy, which is a scourge affecting all of the Third World, includ-  ing the Islamic world. Many countries and organizations have invested considerable  resources in the effort to improve the situation, without achieving the desired  results. Cancerned as it is to play its part in. this effort, ISESCO has sought to  develop a new approach to the problem through a three-part formula. The idea is to  begin by teaching the basic skills of writing and arithmetic and to follow this with  vocational training, accompanied by a parallel and related effort bearing on the  cultural dimension of literacy. The aim of ISESCO'S literacy activities, which are  being carried out in many African and Asi.an countries, is not so milch to transmit  quantities of information as to instil habits of application and perseverence and an  eagerness to learn and to develop the skill of self-education, in the spirit of what  the Arab social historian, Ibn Khaldun, calls the 'learning faculty'.
(6.6) It is a well-known fact that Unesco has had extensive and varied experience  in the fight against illiteracy all over the world. We have benefited much from that  experience, both by studying the most useful features of the ten-year programme which  was prepared and executed by Unesco in co-operation with the Countries concerned and  by examining the reports and recommendations of conferences and seminars on literacy  training, including the international conference that was held recently at Unesco  House in Paris. The two organizations, as Specialized Agencies working in this field,  have also had direct official contacts on two occasions, in the summers of 1983 and
1985, at the two meetings held jointly by the United Nations and the Organization of  the Islamic Conference and their subsidiary and affiliated bodies. At the last meeting  in Geneva, a protocol was signed between Unesco end ISESCO referring to the record of  co-operation between the two Organizations in the struggle against illiteracy and  clearly identifying the theoretical activities and field operations that were needed  to pursue and strengthen such co-operation in the future.
(6.7) As you ladies and gentlemen are aware, the substantial increase in exchanges  and joint activities prompted Unesco and ISESCO to sign a co-operation agreement last  year which has become the general legal framework for their interaction and a stimulus  to the continuation, growth and broadening of the scope of their co-operation in edu-  cation, science and culture, including the field of Islamic culture, on which Unesco  is currently preparing a multi-volume work. The Committee responsible for preparing  that publication has done me the honour of appointing me to supervise Part VI of the  work in question. I hope that that part will be published soon, as it will meet the  widely recognized need to counteract the hostility, distortion and prejudice about  Islam and the Muslims that have accumulated in the minds, hearts and emotions of so  many people in past and recent history. The best way to do this is to make the true  enlightened face of Islamic civilization known to all peoples and to all levels of  society. I would like to suggest, in this connection, that Unesco and ISESCO work  jointly to publish a simplified summary of this cultural work addressed to non-  specjalists and to distribute it widely in many languages.
(6.8) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ISESCO sincerely hopes that its activi-  ties will reflect the readiness, not to say the eagerness, of Islam and all Muslims to  enter into fruitful interaction with other peoples and civilizetions. Indeed, this is  one of the firm principles upon which Islam has been based since the very foundation  of Muhammad's state at Medina. This principle was observed by the Prophet's first four  successors and by all Islamic States, regardless of differences in their systems of  government. True to this principle, ISESCO has not only concluded a Co-operatlon  agreement with Unesco, which is international in scope, and with other Arab organiz-  ations such as the Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization  (ALECSO) and the Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States, but it has also  participated with equal interest in the activities of regional organizations that  bring together Muslims and non-Muslims, such as the International Centre for Bantii  Civilizations (CICIBA), which is based at Libreville in Gabon. This participation  resulted in the signing of a co-operation agreement with CTCIBA a few weeks ago. In  this connection I should also like to draw your attention to a general cultural pro-  gramme being carried out at the University of Córdoba in Spain by ISESCO and other  international and national organizations whose purpose is to promote the revival of  Islamic culture. What is intended here, of course, is not some form of 'intell.ectua1  aggression', but rather an effort to build bridges between cultures so as to promote  mutual co-operation based on fruitful coexistence between the shared values of differ-  ent religions and civilizations.
(6.9) By its nature and essence, Islam has always been and will always be respon-  sive to other religions. Islamic civilization is one of give and take; it took much  from Greco-Roman humanism, and it made a considerable contribution to the rise of  Western scientific and technological civilization. The dynamics of history leaves the  Islamic world today with no alternative but to claim its share of the fruits of  science and to enrich its culture from the contemporary sources of knowledge, if it is  to occupy the place it deserves in the regional and international arenas. Of course,
164    progress will be swifter, more advantageous and more easily attainable if the pro-  ponents of Islamic culture are able to act together in pursuit of the common interest  and a common future; for fragmentation is not in the interest of any party and cannot  possibly serve the ends of global. dialogue.
(6.10) The progress of the Islamic community is contingent upon solidarity among its  members on the basis of education, science and culture, solidarity achieved through  dialogue, exchange and an open-minded attitude. That community's aim is comprehensive,  lasting developing in both material and spiritual matters. By strengthening the auth-  entic aspects of their Islamic culture - which, even though it may assimilate and  develop appropriate and beneficial innovations, is itself imperishable - the Islamic  countries will be able to raise their material and moral standards and join with other  countries and civilizations in laying the foundations of a sound international com-  munity devoted to peace, knowledge and sustained development. ISESCO was founded to  serve this noble goal, and the aim of all its planning, action and co-operation with  similar international organizations - Unesco foremost among them - is to achieve it.  Thank vou.
7. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie S. Exc. M. Abdelhadi Boutaleb et je donne la parole à.  S. Exc. M. Kunio Hatoyama, vice-ministre de l'éducation et chef de la délégation  du Japon.
8.1 Mr HATOYAMA (Japan) (Statement delivered in Japanese, English text  supplied by the delegation):  Mr President, on behalf of the Japanese delegation, I should like to  offer you o u  warmest congratulations on your election as President of the pres-  ent session of the General Conference. I am convinced that under your distin-  guished and impartial leadership the session will yield truly fruitful results.
8.2 May I first of all express my profound thanks to the Government and  people of the People's Republic of ßulgaria, the hosts of this session. We are  gathered here for this session in Bulgaria, a meeting place of civilizations from  ancient times and a country renowned €or the richness of its culture. We are here  to review the realities of Unesco and to explore new perspectives for its future  development. I believe this is an occasion of very great importance and signifi-  cance. I should also like to pay a tribute to the Director-General and to the  staff of the Secretariat, for their efforts in preparing this session.
8.3 Mr President, this year we mark the fortieth anniversary of the adoption  of the Constitution of Unesco. Throughout those 40 years, Unesco, the sole world-  wide organization whose province is the spheres of education, science and  culture, has undoubtedly made very significant contributions to the international  community through its various programme activities, for example, its activities  for the eradication of illiteracy, for international scientific co-operation, for  the preservation of man's cultural heritage, for regional co-operation in various  fields, and so on. The noble aims set forth in its Constitution continue to enjoy  wide support. We have to recognize, however, that there exist a number of areas  where reform is needed, particularly the tendency of excessive politicization and  various problems concerning the management and administration of the  Organization.
8.4 Unesco is today confronted by a critical situation unprecedented in its  history, a crisis made yet more serious by the withdrawal from Unesco of the  United States of America and notification of withdrawal by t.he United Kingdom and  Singapore.
8.5 I consider that in order to surmount this crisis, there is an urgent  need for Unesco to reform itself drastically with respect to both its programme  and budget and its management and operation, through an all-embracing review of  every aspect of the Organization's achievement and contribution, and of problems  and deficiencies encountered in the course of the past 40 years, in order to  enable itself to carry out steadily and effectively activities in keeping with  its original mandate as a Specialized Agency of the United Nations.
8.6 Japan has made clear its resolute determination to work for the reform  of Unesco on numerous occasions since the fourth special session of the Executive  Board held last February. It is now evident that many Member States attach  increasing importance to reform of Unesco. We earnestly hope that reforms will be  pursued and that Unesco's universality will.be secured.
8.7 Mr President, I feel that it would be impossible to exaggerate the  importance of the task of the present session of the General Conference, which is  to advance the reform of the Organization and to ensure its future sound develop-  ment. On this momentous occasion, I shall deal principally with three points: the
165    reform of the Organization and the need to ensure that such a reform will con-  tinue; the Draft Programme and Budget for 1986-1987; and the Unesco programmes to  which my country attaches particular importance.
8.8 Let me fikst set forth my country's basic position regarding reform of  the Organization and the need to ensure that such a reform will continue in the  future. In this connection, Japan has consistently stressed three essential  points. They are: programme concentration; rationalization and streamlining of  management and administration of the Organization; and restriction of budget  growth.
8.9 Regarding programme concentration, we note that improvements have been  achieved in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1986-1987 prepared by the  Director-General. This is meaningful. However, we believe that further jhprove-  ment must be achieved at this session on the basis of the recommendations 05 the  Executive Board concerning the said Draft Programme and Budget.
8.10 Concerning the rationalization and streaml.ining of management, we also  note that a certain degree of improvement along the lines of the recommendations  made by the Temporary Committee of the Executive Board has been attained. I wish  to urge that yet further reform be accomplished.
8.11 With regard to the budget, what we consider particularly important is to  ensure that the total budget of the next biennium will be reduced by one-quarter,  avoiding an additional financial burden on the remaining Member States. In this  connection, let me state that there must be no 'sanctuaries' where reducing  budgets by 25 per cent is concerned, that all categories of budget item must be  strictly reviewed in order to achieve maximum economy. Furthermore, 7: wish to say  that reform efforts should not end this year, that the reform process must be an  ongoing one. It is extremely important to achieve during this session substantial  agreement ensuring that for the years beyond 1986 there will be a mechanism with-  in the Executive Board for examination and monitoring of the reform.
8.12 Mr President, let me now express the basic viewpoints of my country on  the Draft Programme and. Budget for 1986-1987. Compared with document 22 C/5, a  certain degree of improvement is noted in document 23 C/5 as rega.rdc various pro-  grammes which have been the object of criticism. In addition, the proposed budget  shows zero qrowth in real terms, in keeping with the recommendations made by the  Executive Roard at its 120th session. Further, some other improvements are to be  seen in this document, such as indication of the priority of each of the proposed  programme actions, reduction in the numher of subprogrammes and introduction of  an opticn system, all of which are meaningful steps forward.
8.13 However, I consider that further concentration of Unesco's proqrammes is  required in order that emphasis may be placed on those activities in line with  the Organization's proper objectives. In seeking such further programme concen-  tration, it is, I believe, essential to bear in mind the four criteria set out in  the recommendations of the Executive ßoard, namely, the urgency of a programme,  its usefulness, the degree of support for it, and its effectiveness. We urge that  the budgetary allocations proposed for (i) programmes on which views among Member  States are so divided that there is little hope of securing consensus; (ii) pro-  grammes which car? and should be more appropriate3.y implemented by other orqaniz-  ations and agencies of the TJnited Nations system; arid (iii) programmes of less  urgency be transferred to pi-nc;rz~.mmen which c.rn be implemented adequately only by  Unesco and which enjoy the full support of all Member States.
8.14 In this connection, I should like to make some brief observations on  some of the Unesco programmes which seem to involve problems. First, Major Pro-  gramme XITI, Peace, international understanding, human rights and the rights of  peoples. This major programme is one of the most controversial, one on which WC.  have seen a sharp division of opinion among Member States. In particular, it is  considered that drastic remodelling of the programmes proposed relating to 'the  rights of peoples' and 'disarmament' is absolutely essential, if agreement and  the support of all Member States is to be attained.
8.15 With regard to Major Programme III, Communication in the service of man,  I wish to say that programmes which should be promoted are those which will  develop and strengthen the de.veloping countries' own communication capabilities  and other similar concrete activities. I must emphasize in this regard that free-  dom of opinion and expression, and freedom of the press must always be firmly  secured.
8.16 Mr President, I should like now to touch upon those programmes to which  ni'. ccnini:::~~ a.ktaches particular importance in its co-operation with Unesco. They  ?.re: (i) programmes whi.ch help the endogenous development of developing countries
166    in a concrete way; (ii) programmes of intellectual exchange and co-operation  which benefit all Member States; and (iii) programmes for effective regional co-  operation.
8.17 A member of the Asian community, my country has extended active support  and co-operation to various programmes designed for the region of Asia and the  Pacific, for example, the Asian Programme of Educational Innovation for Develop-  ment (APEID), the South-East Asia Regional Network for Basic Sciences, the  various programmes for the preservation of the cultural heritage and the work of  the Asian Cultural Centre for Unesco.
8.18 My country, by thus steadily promoting effective regional co-operation  in Asia, is striving to help the endogenous development of countries in the  region. We will continue to extend co-operation ,to the greatest extent possible,  particularly in the training of personnel of these countries, including accept-  ance of an increasing number of students from abroad.
8.19 As a concrete example of programmes for intellectual exchange and co-  operation which benefit all Member States, I should like to say a'few words here  concerning the United Nations University, in the establishment of which Unesco  was associated and which has its headquarters in my country. Japan has extended  very active support to the University, and will continue to extend all possible  co-operation for its further development. We earnestly hope that Unesco will  further intensify its co-operative relations with the University, and that Member  States will increase their support and co-operation extended to the University  and its various programmes, including their financial contributions to the Uni-  versity Endowment Fund.
8.20 Mr President, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, Unesco faces a  crisis that is without precedent in its history. Let me conclude my address by  emphasizing again that the present session of the General Conference is of  decisive significance and importance, if we are to surmount the current crisis of  Unesco, and by also emphasizing that both a drastic reform of the Organization to  be promoted through deliberations and decisions in the present session and the  continuance of reform efforts thereafter are essential, if we are to ensure the  continued co-operation of Member States with Unesco. Thank you.
9. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Japon et je donne la parole à  S. Exc. le Dr Iradj Fazel, ministre de la culture et de l'enseignement supérieur  et chef de la délégation de la République islamique d'Iran.
10.1 M. FAZEL (Islamic Republic of Iran):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, honourable delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, on behalf of the delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran, I would  like to express our congratulations to you, Mr President, on your election, and  to wish you every success. I would also like to express sincere thanks to the  Government and the people of Bulgaria for their kind hospitality.
10.2 Mr President, please allow me to deliver my speech in my native  language, to respect the universality of the Organization and the fine tradition  of honouring cultures and languages.  (L'orateur poursuit en persan ; texte français fourni par la délégation)
10.3 Au nom de Dieu, le Clément, le Miséricordieux. Monsieur le Président,  Mesdames, Messieurs, c'est avec le plus profond respect et nos salutations pour  le Prophète de l'Islam et tous les autres Prophètes avant Lui, ainsi que pour  tous les hommes de bonne volonté qui ont consacré et sacrifié leur vie au  bien-être spirituel et matériel de l'home que je m'adresse à vous.
10.4 Tout d'abord je tiens à vous présenter, Monsieur le Président, en mon  nom et au nom de ma délégation et de mon gouvernement, mes félicitations les plus  cordiales pour votre élection à la présidence de cette session de la Conférence.  Je voudrais aussi rendre hommage aux efforts considérables accomplis par le  Directeur général et le Secrétariat de l'Unesco pour préparer les différents  documents qui sont soumis à. notre Conférence. Je pense que la chaleur de nos  réactions après le rapport du Directeur général a été le meilleur témoin de  l'appui que nous lui prêtons pour son attitude juste et honnête et les efforts  infatigables qu'il déploie face aux diff.icultés que traverse l'organisation.  Enfin, je n'oublierai pas de remercier vivement le gouvernement et le peuple  bulgares pour l'accueil chaleureux qu'ils nous ont réservé.
10.5 Comme vous le savez, la délégation de la République islamique d'Iran  représente ici une nation qui, tout au long des siècles passés, s'est trouvée en  tête des pionniers de la science et de la culture et qui a laissé une trace  importante dans la civilisation humaine.
10.6 Or, voici que ce peuple musulman, après avoir connu bien des  vicissitudes 'au cours de sa longue histoire, est entré depuis sept ans dans une  ère nouvelle de croissance et d'épanouissement. Par le sacrifice de milliers de  martyrs et aux prises à de multiples difficultés économiques, sociales et  politiques, il a 'accompli une révolution sacrée dont le résultat a été le  renversement du régime despotique royal et la rupture du cercle des dépendances  politiques et culturelles arrogantes imposées par l'Est et par l'ouest, en vue  d'instaurer la justice sociale et d'éliminer de sa société les facteurs de  l'ignorance et de la décadence morale.
10.7 Grâce à l'expérience acquise lors de ce grand événement historique,  cette nation s'est fermement convaincue de la nécessité de réaliser les buts  humanitaires fixés par l'Unesco, c'est-à-dire l'instauration de l'amitié et de la  paix, de l'entente mutuelle dans des relations saines, et du respect réciproque  entre les nations, par le développement de l'instruction et de l'éducation, de la  science et de la culture. Des efforts ont été déployés pour parvenir à ces  objectif s.
10.8 Assurément, vous tous ici présents m'accorderez que le contenu originel  des objectifs et des mots d'ordre de l'Unesco, à sa fondation, a été la défense  de la dignité humaine et le souci d'améliorer la situation spirituelle et maté-  rielle de l'homme, ainsi que l'établissement de la paix et de l'entente mutuelle  entre les communautés humaines. Ces idéaux et ces mots d'ordre humanitaires ont  toujours été approuvés et encouragés par tous les hommes de paix dans le monde,  au long de l'histoire. Aujourd'hui, ils se trouvent repris dans les discours et  les prises de position officielles des gouvernements. Malheureusement, si nous  jetons un regard rapide sur le sombre et effrayant spectacle du monde d'au-  jourd'hui, aux horizons obscurcis par les nuages épais de la haine et de la  guerre, et si nous examinons la situation lamentable des pays pauvres qui,  dominés de manière inique par les superpuissances, sont aux prises avec des maux  désastreux tels que la misère, la faim, la maladie, l'errance, ou des vices  moraux tels que la prostitution ou la drogue, ou qui encore souffrent de la  honte, de la skgrégation raciale ou de l'apartheid, nous constatons cette réalité  amère qu'entre le monde idéal de l'Unesco et des pacifistes des sociétés  humaines, et ce qui se passe dans le monde actuel du fait des violations per-  pétrées par les colonisateurs rapaces et les politiciens aveugles, il existe une  distance énorme et des obstacles immenses ! Dès à présent, un néo-colonialisme  est à l'oeuvre, quand la technologie sert au pillage des ressources vitales des  pays pauvres. Ce néo-colonialisme a provoqué la décadence de bien des humains,  d'êtres aimés de Dieu, élevés par lui très au-dessus de la plupart de ses .  créatures, mais considérés, hélas, par les animateurs du jeu politique du monde  présent, qui n'hésitent pas à sacrifier des milliers d'innocents à leurs intérêts  propres, comme des moyens de production ou de consommation.
10.9 Ainsi donc, nous tous qui participons à cette assemblée, et nous sommes  réunis ici avec l'espoir de faire un pas, fût-il modeste, vers la restauration de  la paix et de l'entente internationales et vers la mise en oeuvre des programmes  scientifiques, éducatifs et culturels de l'Unesco, nous devons, avant toute  chose, dénoncer cette v&rité flagrante : tant que l'Unesco n'aura que des slogans  émouvants et de belles paroles à proposer concernant l'égalité des hommes et  l'instauration de la paix, de l'entente et de l'amitié entre les nations et  qu'elle se taira face aux fauteurs de guerre à travers le monde et aux violations  perpétrées par les superpuissances contre les pays faibles, qu'elle assistera en  observateur neutre à la course aux armements, tant .que cette Organisation se  considérera comme le défenseur de l'homme, de la justice sociale et de l'égalité  des droits des nations tout en se refusant à toute démarche radicale face aux  inégalités profondes existant actuellement entre les nations faibles et les  nations puissantes, et en ne réagissant pas de manière sérieuse et efficace 1 la  diffusion de la drogue, de l'alcool, de la prostitution et des centres de cor-  ruption et de débauche dans le monde, il. sera inutile de mettre un quelconque  espoir dans ses décisions et ses résolutions, si celles-ci sont dépourvues de  garanties d'exécution.
10.10 Monsieur le Président, un des héritages culturels les plus import.ants de  la société humaine, acquis au prix de la mort et de la souffrance de millions  d'hommes au cours de l'histoire, consiste dans la prise de conscience de la  nécessité de recourir à des moyens pacifiques pour résoudre les conflits entre  les peuples, les nations et les membres de la société humaine. L'Unesco, en tant  qu'organisation internationale la plus importante, responsable de la sauvegarde  du patrimoine culturel de la communauté mondiale, a sans aucun doute le devoir  direct de protéger et de répandre cette idée. L'homme 'du XXe siècle, après avoir  fait l'expérience de deux terribles guerres mondiales, s'est efforcé, durant les  quarante dernières années, de faire disparaître de la planète les attitudes  d'hostilité incompatibles avec la dignité humaine, en établissant des lois  internationales humanitaires.
10.11 Toutes les personnes ici présentes seront sans le moindre doute d'accord  avec moi pour reconnaître que si nous qui vivons dans le dernier quart du  XXe siècle, sommes incapables de distinguer les moyens qui résoudront nos con-  flits des moyens qui ont cours dans la jungle, nous aurons totalement vidé de sa  signification le mot "culture". Heureusement, la prise de conscience toujours  croissante de cette signification, a poussé la communauté internationale à  établir les lois internationales nécessaires en ce sens, quoique de manière  encore imparfaite et toute relative. Dans la pratique, hélas, l'étendue et  l'intensité des violations des conventions humaines internationales, en par-  ticulier dans les domaines touchant la sécurité et la paix nationales et  internationales, ne cessent de croître.
10.12 Avec le développement de ce processus, les pays se voient sans défense  face aux agressions étrangères, et obligés de recourir à des moyens de défense  unilatéraux. En conséquence, la demande en armes croît sensiblement au niveau  international et le commerce des armes prospère. La course aux armements pro-  gresse, et la présence même des armes ne cesse d'exciter les motivations  agressives. Ce cercle vicieux, véritable triomphe de l'inculture, détruit toutes  les ressources économiques et humaines de la planète. I1 est évident que dans de  telles conditions, i1 est vain d'établir de nouvelles réglementations interna-  tionales. A titre d'exemple, si le protocole de 1925 de Genève, concernant  l'interdiction de l'usage de l'arme chimique, est violé sans vergogne 60 ans  après sa signature, quelles pourraient bien être les motivations et les justifi-  cations d'un effort pour mettre au point une convention visant l'interdiction de  la production des armes chimiques ?
10.13 Monsieur le Président, il est tout au moins prouvé par notre propre  expérience que les règles humanitaires internationales existantes sont dépourvues  des garanties nécessaires d'exécution. Si nous ne pouvons hésiter sur le fait que  cette absence de garantie constitue le facteur le plus important de la course aux  armements, si nous admettons que la sauvegarde de la paix et le désarmement font  partie des objectifs majeurs de l'Unesco, et si nous reconnaissons sincèrement  qu'un effort commun de notre part peut et doit empêcher la poursuite du processus  dangereux auquel je viens de faire allusion, alors il faut réfléchir avec sérieux  à une solution possible.
10.14 A notre avis, l'Unesco est parfaitement habilitée à organiser et  orienter nos efforts communs pour trouver des voies, des manières de faire et des  moyens pour garantir l'exécution des réglementations internationales existantes.  Ce devoir est assurément de nature culturelle, car le seul fait, par exemple, que  les noms des pays signataires du protocole de 1925 de Genève, concernant  l'interdiction de l'utilisation des armes chimiques, figurent en tête de liste  des exportateurs de produits chimiques toxiques, est sans nul doute un fruit de  l'hypocrisie et de l'inculture. Nous espérons qu'au cours de cette assemblée des  décisions importantes et sérieuses seront prises pour assurer et promouvoir des  garanties d'exécution des réglementations humaines internationales.
10.15 Monsieur le Président, parmi les autres questions importantes que l'on  peut peut-être considérer comme l'une des sources des nombreux échecs que con-  naissent actuellement les communautés humaines dans la réalisation d'une paix  durable et d'une véritable justice et dans la réhabilitation des valeurs  humaines, on peut citer la domination de la politique sur la culture, et  l'utilisation impropre des sciences et de la technologie à des fins de domination  politique. Ceci va si loin que certains Etats dominateurs ne se contentent pas de  recourir à de tels procédés dans les limites de leur propre pays ou des pays de  leur zone d'influence, mais qu'ils cherchent aussi à mettre la main sur les  organisations et les organes internationaux, notamment l'Unesco, par des pres-  sions politiques et financières.
10.16 La délégation de la République islamique d'Iran, tout en condamnant la  mainmise des politiques dominatrices sur la culture et les pressions exercées sur  l'Unesco par certains pays, non seulement ne considère pas la sortie hors de  l'Unesco d'un gouvernement fauteur de guerre comme les Etats-Unis comme un  dommage pour cette Organisation, mais estime que c'est une bonne nouvelle pour le  tiers monde et les pauvres de ce monde ; en conservant dans l'unité leur soutien  à i'ünesco, les pays pauvres prouvent qu'ils peuvent maintenir leur solidarité  culturelle de manière indépendante.
10.17 La délégation de la République islamique d'Iran, tout en approuvant, de  manière générale, la ligne directrice du Programme pour 1986-1987 de l'Unesco, et  celle du Plan à moyen terme, se voit obligée d'évoquer ici certains points,  renvoyant les autres sujets aux discussions en commissions spécialisées.
10.18 Parmi les programmes de valeur figurant de manière prioritaire à l'ordre  du jour des travaux de l'Unesco, se trouve la question de la défense des droits  de l'home et de la lutte contre l'apartheid et le racisme. Or, malgré l'impor-  tance attachée à ces questions par cette Organisation mondiale et l'insistance de
169    cette dernière pour leur mise en application, on constate malheureusement que la  violation des droits de l'homme et des libertés individuelles et sociales des  peuples se pratique d'une manière extrêmement ample et de la façon la plus  odieuse dans des régions entières du monde. L'Afrique du Sud continue à nier  obstinément et pub'liquement le principe le plus fondamental sur lequel reposent  les droits de l'homme, à savoir l'unité de la race humaine et l'égalité des  hommes, en conséquence de quoi elle se conduit, dans son action, de la manière la  plus violente et agressive qui soit. La violation du territoire palestinien par  l'envahisseur israélien, et l'occupation par celui-ci d'une terre appartenant à  un malheureux peuple opprimé, condamné à l'exil et à l'errance, est une violation  patente du droit des nations : c'est, à vrai dire, de la plus horrible forme de  ségrégation raciale et nationale que le sionisme international, aidé de ses  alliés, se rend coupable. De même, l'agression contre l'hfghanistan, le Nica-  ragua, le Liban, les complots tramés par les superpuissances en vue de coloniser  ces peuples opprimés, qui aboutissent dans bien des cas au massacre et à  l'extermination d'innombrables groupes humains, ou qui, encore, en encourageant  le terrorisme, provoquent la disparition d'innocents, tout cela constitue autant  de questions importantes auxquelles votre conscience vigilante, Mesdames et  Messieurs, et celle des responsables de l'Unesco, doivent chercher une solution.
10.19 Le gaspillage par les pôles industriels des pays forts et l'exploitation  incontrôlée et excessive des ressources naturelles et biologiques de la terre et  de la mer, en particulier dans les pays en développement, menacent d'anéantis-  sement la vie de l'home d'aujourd'hui.
10.20 D'autre part, les fléaux naturels qui menacent sans cessent la vie de  milliers de personnes à travers le monde constituent une autre question digne  d'attention, pour laquelle il faut trouver une solution en intensifiant les  programmes de l'Unesco concernant l'homme et la terre habitable, l'océanographie,  l'hydrologie et la sismologie. I1 faut y ajouter les effets nuisibles des bom-  bardements chimiques sur le potentiel humain et le patrimoine naturel des pays  atteints, ou encore l'étalement de nappes de pétrole ou de gaz à la surface de la  mer, en raison des bombardements de puits de pétrole maritimes : actuellement,  notre pays est malheureusement confronté à ce problème effrayant, du fait de  l'agression d'un gouvernement qui foule aux pieds toutes les conventions inter-  nationales et met le Golfe persique en danger par ce genre d'opérations. I1 faut  absolument que cette question soit examinée dans le cadre du programme de  l'Unesco concernant l'environnement.
10.21 Le patrimoine culturel humain est l',expression concrète des goûts, de la  pensée et des croyances de chaque peuple. Sa conservation requiert par conséquent  la plus grande attention. Pour lutter contre des menaces telles que la guerre ou  des fléaux naturels tels que les tremblements de terre qui peuvent provoquer des  domages irréparables à ce patrimoine, il faut s'attacher à préserver celui-ci,  en s'appuyant sur les conventions approuvées par l'Unesco, et lutter tout par-  ticulièrement contre les Etats agresseurs qui, dans la guerre, ne tiennent aucun  compte des accords internationaux concernant la préservation des monuments  culturels.
10.22 Monsieur le Président, à propos du programme de l'Unesco concernant les  sciences et la technologie, il paraît indispe.nsable de rappeler le point sui-  vant : étant donné que les découvertes et les inventions scientifiques, ainsi que  les progrès accomplis dans le domaine de la technologie et de l'industrie en  faveur de l'homme d'aujourd'hui, constituent un patrimoine appartenant à tout le  monde, il importe au plus haut point que cet héritage culturel - fruit des  efforts et des initiatives de milliers de savants et résultat d'un profond  dévouement au bien-être du genre humain, au développement et au perfectionnement  de sa connaissance de la nature et de la vie - il faut, dis-je, que cet héritage  culturel cesse d'être le monopole des puissances dominatrices et mercantiles. I1  doit, être mis à la disposition de tous les pays, de sorte que tous les hommes en  profitent aisément selon leurs besoins propres et leurs conditions régionales  particulières. Pour atteindre ce but, nous avons toujours demandé et proposé que  soit fondée une banque d'informations, et que soient connus les mécanismes  d'accès aux informations et aux découvertes les plus récentes de la recherche  dans les différents domaines des sciences et de la technologie.
10.23 En ce qui concerne les communications et l'échange d'information dans le  monde, nous estimons que les monopoles de l'information constituent une des  difficultés majeures faisant obstacle à l'avènement d'une entente mutuelle entre  les nations, Certes, beaucoup a déjà été dit sur ce sujet ; les différents  aspects de cette question ont notamment été analysés dans le rapport de la  Commission MacBride, rédigé et publié à l'initiative de l'Unesco. A cet égard,  nous appuyons le nouvel ordre de l'information proposé par l'Unesco. Et pour y  parvenir, tout en présentant un plan pour instituer des banques régionales  d'informations et un mécanisme de liaison des banques entre elles, nous proposons  qu'un comité soit mandaté pour examiner sérieusement cette question. Dans le même
6  ordre d' idées, nous approuvons totalement 1' échange d' informations entre les  agences de presse des pays du tiers monde et l'échange de nouvelles télévisées  entre les télévisions de ces pays, échanges qui, avec l'appui de l'Unesco, sont  en train de prendre forme. Je suis heureux de pouvoir annoncer aux personnes ici  présentes que la République islamique d'Iran a jusqu'à présent joué un rôle  efficace dans le mise en application de ces deux programmes.
10.24 Pour terminer, la délégation de la République islamique d'Iran remercie  sincèrement les responsables de l'Unesco des efforts qu'ils déploient en vue de  mettre au point des propositions de programmes. Elle exprime l'espoir que la mise  en application de ces programmes, surtout ceux concernant la protection de  l'identité culturelle des différents pays, la femme, la lutte contre l'anal-  phabétisme, la faim, la pauvreté et la décadence morale, ainsi que l'instruction  pour tous, aboutisse à un résultat satisfaisant. Elle insiste cependant sur le  point important suivant : il est indispensable d'assurer dans le monde les  conditions auxquelles j'ai fait allusion au début de mon intervention et de  libérer la culture, la science et, de manière générale, les valeurs humaines les  plus hautes de la domination des puissances militaires et politiques, si l'on  veut parvenir à une réalisation effective des objectifs élevés que s'est donnée
10.25 Espérons qu'arrive le jour où la prise de conscience d'es valeurs morales  et spirituelles et leur mise en pratique assureront l'avènement d'un monde  paisible et d'une ère de justice et de prospérité pour tous les hommes, en  particulier les déshérités de la terre.
11. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la République islamique d'Iran  et je donne la parole à S. Exc. M. Komla Agbetiafa, ministre de l'éducation et  chef de la dél8gation du Togo.
12.1 M. AGBETIAFA (Togo) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président  du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Messieurs les chefs de  délégations nationales, Messieurs les Ambassadeurs, Mesdames et Messieurs, c'est  un grand honneur et un privilège pour moi de diriger la délégation togolaise et  de prendre la parole devant la vingt-troisième session de la Conférence générale  de l'Unesco, dont on se souviendra longtemps comme de l'une des sessions les plus  délicates et les plus importantes pour notre Organisation. Elle sera l'une des  plus délicates certes, car elle se réunit à une époque où l'Unesco traverse une  période de crise.
12.2 Je tiens à affirmer que le souhait le plus ardent du Chef de 1'Etat  togolais et de son gouvernement est de voir cette crise se dissiper, grâce à la  bonne volonté de tous les Etats membres et grâce auss;. aux nobles idéaux au nom  desquels combat l'Unesco.
12.3  félici  dence  assuré  Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi, au nom de ma délégation, de vous  ter chaleureusement pour votre élection brillante et unanime à la prési-  de cette importante session de la Conférence générale. Vous pouvez être  ~~ de la contribution loyale, positive et constructive de ma délégation. Nous  somes pleinement confiants que, sous votre clairvoyante direction, grâce à votre  expérience des questions internationales, les travaux de cette session seront  couronnés de succès.
12.4 Je voudrais également présenter mes vives félicitations à Monsieur le  Président du Conseil exécutif qui, par sa grande compétence et son dévouement, a  largement contribué à conjuguer les efforts, les énergies et les idées des uns et  des autres en vue de la réalisation des grandes tâches qui incombent à l'Unesco.
12.5 Je saisis aussi l'occasion qui m'est offerte pour saluer le Directeur  général de l'Unesco, S. Exc. M. Amadou-Mahtar M'BOW, et lui exprimer au nom du  gouvernement togolais et de son Chef, S. Exc. le Général Gnassingbé Eyadema et en  mon nom personnel, toutes nos félicitations pour son courage et ses efforts face  aux graves problèmes qui tourmentent notre Organisation. Nous connaissons ses  talents personnels, sa foi dans l'avenir de l'Unesco, son désintéressement et sa  détermination dans la lutte que nous avons ensemble engagée pour le mieux-être de
12.6 Monsieur le Directeur général, ma délégation se félicite également de la  manière minutieuse et méthodique avec laquelle vous avez préparé notre Confe-  rence. Come par le passé, les rapports soumis à notre discussion sont pleins de  clarté et de richesse. Ils accordent une place de choix aux problèmes qui nous  tiennent aujourd'hui à coeur dans les domaines de l'éducation, du développement,  du transfert de la technologie, de la culture, de l'information, etc. I1 faudra
171    insuffler moins de passion et beaucoup de raison à nos débats et à nos discus-  sions, afin de définir les solutions appropriées que requiert l'examen de ces  questions.
12.7 Dans ce cadre précis, le Togo ne saurait taire, devant cette auguste  assemblée, les embûches et les machinations qui risquent de mettre en cause  l'oeuvre gigantesque entreprise par l'Unesco voici bientôt quarante ans.
12.8 Depuis quarante ans, en effet, l'Unesco a toujours tiré sa force et sa  vitalité de son universalité. Son progrès, son efficacité, sa respectabilité et  l'avancement de ses travaux en dépendent, Depuis quarante ans, toujours grâce à  son universalité, notre Organisation s'est fait remarquer parmi les autres  institutions ,des Nations Unies. Elle demeure aujourd'hui un outil précieux de  promotion sociale et culturelle de l'humanité en général et du tiers monde en  particulier.
12.9 C'est pourquoi, fidèle à sa politique de paix, d'union et de solidarité  internationale, le gouvernement togolais, par ma voix, lance un appel solennel à  tous les Etats membres pour le maintien de ce principe d'universalité et de  compréhension mutuelle au sein de l'Unesco, et ceci, pour "développer et ...  multiplier les relations entre leurs peuples en vue de se mieux comprendre...''.
12.10 Evidemment, le moyen le plus sûr pour y parvenir est de détruire, au  départ, toutes les conditions ignobles de subordination et d'hégémonisme qui  caractérisent malheureusement le rapport actuel des pouvoirs à l'échelon mondial.  Pour y parvenir et pour garantir la paix et la sécurité, gages de la croissance  économique, il faut que cessent les manoeuvres de déstabilisation, la violence  comme moyen d'expression, les actes de sabotage et de terrorisme qui sont souvent  utilisés par certains Etats comme outils privilégiés de gouvernement et de  collaboration avec les autres. Le Togo, qui veut la paix, condamne avec la plus  grande vigueur toutes les machinations machiavéliques destructrices de nos  sociétés.
12.11 Monsieur 'le Président, la paix, la sécurité et la stabilité dont ont  besoin les populations africaines constituent les soubassements indispensables  pour assurer à nos pays une croissance durable et utile. La paix est une denrée  précieuse pour le Togo. C'est pourquoi, apôtre de la paix et du respect scru-  puleux de la souveraineté des autres nations, le Chef de 1'Etat togolais souhaite  vivement que tous les moyens soient mis en oeuvre et en commun au niveau de  l'Unesco pour lutter contre le terrorisme et' le sabotage économique. Le maintien  de la paix exige un immense effort et toute une reconversion éthique et mentale  ,de la part de ceux-là mêmes qui sont les auteurs de ces actes que nous condamnons  dans le monde. I1 leur faut redoubler d'efforts pour dominer leur égoïsme cupide  et pour accepter les changements et les innovations que requiert notre monde  actuel.
12.12 Monsieur le Président, le tiers monde est entré sur la scène inter-  nationale voici bientôt quelques décennies. Si ce fut une entrée difficile et  souvent pénible, elle n'en est pas moins irréversible. C'est un acquis et la  communauté internationale doit le préserver. Durant ces dernières années,  l'Unesco a lutté sur tous les fronts pour élargir les frontières, pour rapprocher  les hommes, pour favoriser la percée du tiers monde dans les organisations  internationales des Nations Unies et pour bouleverser le conservatisme de tous  bords en vue de l'instauration d'un dialogue enrichissant et multiculturel.
12.13 Tout ceci a pu réussir grâce à une programmation souple et rationnelle  des activités de notre Organisation. Le Plan à moyen terme pour 1984-1989,  homogène, clair et complet - dont nous avons approuvé il y a deux ans, les  grandes orientations - a reçu le soutien de ma délégation. Ce Plan sera cette  année encore au centre des débats de la vingt-troisième session de la Conférence  générale. Aussi, Monsieur le Président, vous voudrez bien me permettre de faire  part, brièvement, des observations de ma délégation sur les grands programmes II,  IV, V, XII et XIII.
12.14 La République togolaise apprécie hautement la programmation des acti-  vités de l'Unesco dans les grands programmes II, IV et V relatifs à l'éducation,  qui visent à assurer à chaque citoyenne et à chaque citoyen de nos pays une  formation de qualité et un enracinement authentique dans le patrimoine culturel  de chaque communauté.
12.15 S'agissant de l'éducation, la République togolaise qui connaît depuis  quelques années une démographie galopante, a su, à partir de la réforme de 1975,  démocratiser et généraliser son système éducatif. Notre taux de scolarisation est  aujourd'hui de 70 I.
12.16 Dans le souci d'une plus grande adéquation de l'école aux impératifs du  développement économique et social et aussi dans l'esprit de la sauvegarde des  valeurs culturelles de notre peuple, mon gouvernement s'est engagé dans une  orientation décisive et courageuse de l'action éducative de la jeunesse. I1  s'agit d'assurer à chaque citoyen le plein épanouissement de ses aptitudes  physiques, intellectuelles et morales pour le rendre conscient de ses droits et  ses devoirs et capable aussi de préparer et de promouvoir le développement dont  notre peuple a besoin.
12.17 Dans cette perspective, mon gouvernement a revalorisé et réhabilité  certaines disciplines autrefois négligées et qyi recèlent des possibilités  immenses que nous avons cru devoir récupérer et insérer dans les programmes de  formation de notre pays. A ce sujet, les activités manuelles et agricoles,  l'éducation en matière de population, l'éducation sanitaire, l'économie fami-  liale, l'éducation morale et civique, la prévention routière, le dessin et la  musique, l'éducation physique et sportive sont devenus des matières fondamentales  qui méritent la même attention que les autres disciplines.
12.18 Par ce biais, la République togolaise entend s'engager résolument dans  la voie d'une éducation pour la compréhension et la coopération internationales  qui ferait des hommes et des femmes de notre pays des agents ouverts au progrès  et dévoués au rapprochement des peuples et des nations.
12.19 Parallèlement à cette action scolaire intense, le Togo a hautement  développé l'éducation des adultes, car nous savons que tout effort conçu pour  promouvoir l'essor culturel et économique ainsi que pour favoriser l'éclosion des  capacités créatrices des citoyens dans nos pays doit passer nécessairement par  l'éradication de l'analphabétisme et par une extension continue de l'éducation  des producteurs.
12.20 En effet, il ne s'agit pas d'alphabétiser pour alphabétiser. Nous nous  efforçons plutôt de mettre chaque adulte dans la situation d'une "éducation  fonctionnelle'' ou d'une "éducation-réponse" qui reste adaptée aux besoins  exprimés par les adultes eux-mêmes, compte tenu des priorités arrêtées par les  plans successifs de notre développement. La mention d'honneur du prix Irak  d'alphabétisation, décernée au Togo par le Jury Unesco en 1984 au Programme  féminin d'éducation des adultes, démontre que notre expérience mérite d'être  suivie et poursuivie. Avec l'aide généreuse de l'Unesco et les encouragements  matériels et financiers de certains pays amis, le Togo entend livrer une guerre  sans merci à l'ignorance sous toutes ses formes.
12.21 Monsieur le Président, le grand programme XII qui pose clairement le  problème des préjugés, de l'intolérance, du racisme et de l'apartheid mérite  également notre attention soutenue. Nous faisons nôtre l'inquiétude des uns et  des autres pour affirmer que faute d'avoir su extirper de notre planète le virus  de l'hégémonisme, de l'intimidation, des conflits armés nés de l'incompréhension,  de la persistance des préjugés et de l'intolérance, notre monde actuel s'achemine  pas à pas vers des lendemains imprévisibles et inquiétants.
12.22 La situation qui prévaut actuellement dans certaines parties du con-  tinent africain et dans certains territoires sous domination étrangère, appelle  une réaction collective de notre part. Tant que certains sur notre planète, en  Afrique en particulier, ne cesseront pas de gémir en raison de leur origine  sociale et de la couleur de leur peau, notre monde ne connaîtra ni la paix ni la  justice. Les Etats membres de l'Unesco doivent manifester vigoureusement leur  indignation devant le refus des tenants de l'apartheid de reconnaître la di nité  et les droits fondamentaux d'une majorité de Noirs dont le seul péché est d être  Noirs.
12.23 Nous partageons également les préoccupations qui font l'objet du grand  programme XII1 sur la paix, la compréhension internationale, les droits de  l'home et les droits des peuples. La République togolaise est convaincue que,  partout dans le monde, l'action conjuguée de nos Etats avec les efforts de  l'Unesco et des autres organisations internationales devrait être orientée  d'abord vers la satisfaction des droits fondamentaux que sont les droits de se  soigner, de s'instruire et de se former, le droit d'avoir un logement et  d'accéder à la culture, à la sienne propre et à celle des autres.
12.24 Dans une récente intervention devant ses pairs lors d'un sommet de la  CEDEAO à Lomé, le Général Gnassingbé Eyadema, président de la République togo-  laise et président fondateur du Rassemblement du peuple togolais, affirmait avec  force que la paix et la sécurité sont des outils précieux au service du dévelop-  pement économique et social : "La paix et la sécurité doivent être assurées entre  les nations, dans les cités, dans les campagnes, dans les rues, dans les foyers  afin que, dans la sérénité et la quiétude, nous puissions mobiliser nos énergies,  nos forces vives, notre savoir-faire et nos potentialités au service du  déve loppèment I' .  F
12.25 I1 est sûr, Mesdames et Messieurs, que la survie de notre planète dépend  de la maîtrise de la paix.
12.26 Monsieur ie Président, le Plan à moyen terme dont nous venons d'analyser  certains aspects ne sera opérationnel et ne peut se réaliser que grâce aux  ressources financières dont disposera l'Unesco. Mais, nous le savons, pour chacun  de nos Etats l'heure est à la rigueur et à l'austérité financière. I1 nous faut  trouver à l'Unesco les moyens de la politique que les Etats lui auront définie.
12.27 Le Projet de budget pour 1986-1987 a largement, dans sa conception, tenu  compte de la conjoncture du moment. Non seulement le principe de la croissance  zéro a été retenu pour son élaboration, mais il y est aussi prévu des mesures  pour compenser par des économies, plutôt que par des augmentations des contri-  butions, la perte des contributions de certains Etats. Sous sa forme actuelle, le  Projet de budget n'appellera aucune objection de la part de ma délégation, pour  son adoption. Nous souscrivons également aux réductions sensibles qu il convient  d'opérer sur le plan administratif afin d'alléger les structures et le fonction-  nement de l'Unesco.
12.28 Monsieur le Président, le 16 novembre 1985, l'Unesco fêtera le quaran-  tième anniversaire de sa création. Qu'il me soit permis de rendre ici un vibrant  hommage à la mémoire de tous ceux qui, de près ou de loin, ont contribué à sa  création, juste au lendemain de la seconde guerre mondiale. Ce quarantième  anniversaire doit nous rappeler le devoir primordial de ''concourir à un véritable  renouveau des valeurs" et de poursuivre la lutte engagée contre le racisme,  l'intolérance, l'égoïsme, l'apartheid, la course aux armements, afin d'éteindre  les foyers de tension et d'écarter le spectre de la guerre, afin d'affermir notre  solidarité et d'opposer, vigoureusement, la lumière de la raison aux ténèbres des  passions égoïstes des détracteurs de notre Organisation.
12.29 Monsieur le Président, ma délégation souhaite vivement, que nos travaux,  dans cette belle capitale de la Bulgarie, se déroulent dans un climat de con-  fiance, de concertation et de compréhension pour le plus grand bien de l'huma-  nité. Je vous remercie.
13. Le PRESIDENT :  S. Exc. M. Morake, ministre de l'éducation et chef de la délégation du Botswana.
14.1 Mr MORAKE (Botswana) :  Mr President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, Mr Director-  General, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of pleasure and pride to be able to  congratulate you, Mr President, on your election to this important and demanding  office. I do so on behalf of the President, Government and people of Botswana. We  wish you every success in your endeavours; you may be assured of our support in  the execution of your onerous duties.
14.2 To the distinguished delegates from the nations gathered together for  this General Conference, I wish also to convey our good wishes, in the confident  hope that this will be a fruitful and amicable occasion; and I offer the  Director-General and his staff our thanks for the painstaking and thorough prepa-  rations which have been made for our meeting.
14.3 Mr President, we meet together at a time of unease. Throughout the  international community there are undertones of hostility. The arms race con-  tinues unabated, none of the Great Powers being seemingly willing to initiate  real and sustained disarmament. Much of the world is divided by harsh, cruel and  artificial barriers, keeping brother from brother. There is turbulence every-  where. And in such conditions it is those who live in what are termed the devel-  oping countries who are the principal losers. The energy and resources which  might go into strengthening our own efforts for development are instead diverted  into negative and destructive channels. It is a world which still places too much  emphasis on guns and too little on bread. For us in Southern Africa, the reality  of a hostile belligerent world is at our doorstep. We need go no further than our  frontiers to come face to face with a nation bent on creating external friction  and internal bloodshed.  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Togo et je donne la parole à
14.4 Mr President, it is in these unsettled conditions that we are meeting  together to help chart a course for this Organization, created 40 years ago to be  a bastion of peace, the organization of the United Nations concerned with the  spirit and soul of mankind, through its endeavours in education and culture, in  promoting understanding through the development of channels of communication, and  in ensuring that the fruits of science are made truly available to all.
14.5 And just as the international community as a whole seems in a state of  disequilibrium, so too Unesco is passing through the most turbulent years of its
6  existence. Having suffered the loss of one of its Member States, it is now  threatened by further defections. Indeed there is no doubt in my mind that this  twenty-third session of the General Conference will be seen by future historians  as being either the moment when the process of decline is halted, or that when  the slide towards disintegration is accelerated. Our resolve, therefore, must be  that through our joint wisdom and determination we set our Organization on the  path of recovery; that through patient and tolerant discussion we demonstrate our  collective will that Unesco once again be held in high regard throughout the  international community; and that its energies may be devoted wholly to the  creation of a just and peaceful world, rather than dissipated on matters relating  to its internal management.
14.6 To reach this stage will indeed require that we all face squarely the  criticism being voiced about the Organization. We shall have to express our con-  cerns openly and also with humility. We must be willing to listen to the voices  of others and then, in the final analysis and through consensus, to propose those  changes which will enable Unesco to fulfil its onerous responsibilities to the  international community.
14.7 It is here, Mr President, that I must express the hesitations my govern-  ment has about the programme and management of the Organization. Some of these  comments have been publicly stated before, but they deserve further attention.
14.8 After a careful examination of document 23 Cl5 we are gratified to find  that in many of the programmes there has been a marked reduction in the allo-  cations to international conferences and theoretical studies, with a correspond-  ing increased emphasis on applied activities in the field. We welcome this change  but believe that there are still examples where the programme could be further  realigned. There are cases where studies are being proposed in areas already  adequately researched, and others where the same work could be done as well by  other institutions, such as universities. Indeed, some programmes give the  appearance of being self-perpetuating year after year. My delegation will draw  attention in the commissions to specific examples of what we regard as being  areas where adjustments could be made.
14.9 We have also noted that there are examples where financial allocations  to programmes have been so fragmented into small parts, each receiving perhaps a  few thousand dollars, that there must be a risk that resources will be wasted  through being devoted to minuscule projects. It is here that the Secretariat  should be more conscious of the need to determine priorities, even if this means  eliminating for the time being programmes which are worthy, but not of first  importance.
14.10 We would therefore urge the commissions to carry out a rigorous examin-  ation of the programme, highlighting what is most important and ensuring that  those elements receive the financial support needed for their successful imple-  mentation. And we hope, for the good of the Organization, that the Secretariat  will be willing to accept such adjustments to the programme.
14.11 My government also has hesitations as regards what seems to be the top-  heavy nature of the Organization, and its tendency to be over-centralized in  Paris. We have noted the expressions of intent to decentralize, and we shall  welcome their speedy implementation. However, it has to be stated that the  decentralization process could be executed through the addition of out-posted  staff without any appreciable diminution of the numbers at Headquarters. This  would not be decentralization in the manner which we should regard as being  desirable. In urging that the strengths of the Regional Offices be increased,  with corresponding regional control of budgets and programmes, we believe that  this should be accomplished through a substantial reduction in the staff based at  Headquarters. Such a move, which should concern all levels of staff, will have  the desirable effect of bringing more members of the Organization into close  touch with the realities of the countries they are seeking to serve. This will  encourage what I have already referred to, namely the injection of greater  relevance into the programme.
14.12 Mr President, it was at the twenty-second session of the General Confer-  ence that my government expressed the need for greater integration in programme  planning. In this regard we welcome the efforts made to develop intersectoral  programming as is indicated in the major programmes Rigidly separated depart-  mental projects are being supplanted by programmes involving many sectors of the  Organization. This change in emphasis is to be welcomed, since it reflects the  realities as we experience them in our separate countries and regions. It is  seldom that a project calling on the resources of one sector only can be mounted  satisfactorily. We believe, however, that this need for integrated planning goes
175    further than the boundaries of our Organization. It should be more widely recog-  nized throughout the Specialised Agencies of the United Nations that the fragmen-  tation into separate organizations which has been the framework within which  United Nations aid to the Third World is structured no longer meets the needs of  our countries.
14.13 Let me give you but one example of what I mean. Throughout the Third  World, rural development is a priority issue in the majority of countries. Our  problems involve the modernization of agriculture, the spreading of basic health  care, the qualitative improvement and quantitative expansion of education, the  development of an adequate infraststructure and the improvement of all forms of  communication. Success in our efforts for rural development requires that each of  those aspects be given their proper consideration and be woven together into an  integrated and comprehensive programme. It is only when we turn to the Special-  ized Agencies that our problems begin. For although the United Nations Develop-  ment Programme ought to be the means of ensuring that joint planning takes place  between the agencies, in fact the situation is somewhat different. ïJNDP, faced by  diverse agencies, each one of which has its own procedures and approaches, is  often left having to resort to piecemeal project planning. Mr President and  delegates, you will, no doubt, have seen mention in the press of the report  recently written by Mr Maurice Bertrand of the United Nations Joint Inspection  Unit for the United Nations fortieth anniversary. In it he refers to the fact  that 'extreme fragmentation in almost every instance complicated the task of the  developing countries rather than simplifying it'. He further commented that aid  is distributed to recipient countries by more than 30 different bodies which 'add  their doctrinal differences and administrative complexities to those of a score  of other bilateral and multilateral aid programmes'.
14.14 Mr President, I repeat, we are glad to see that intersectoral planning  is now a feature of Unesco's programme. We are glad that in document 23 C/5 there  are several programmes involving other Specialized Agencies of the United  Nations. We believe the time is now ripe for a proper examination of the total  organization of the Specialized Agencies. It is proper that Unesco should be  seeking to put its own house in order. This is a first and important step. It  should not mask what is a equally important task, namely that of ensuring that  the United Nations as a whole is fulfilling its role of assisting each and every  country to realize its full potential for the good of its own people and for the  prosperity of the international community as a whole.
14.15 During the coming weeks, my delegation will be drawing attention to  specific aspects of the programme in the various commissions. I will not there-  fore detain you here with an analysis of each programme. I wish, however, to  assure you, Mr President, and also the Director-General, that it is the intention  of the Botswana Government to play its fullest part in the life and work of the  Organization. We note with appreciation the increasing emphasis on subregional  activities in Southern Africa and the strengthening of the office in Harare. We  also understand that the Nairobi office will be' enlarged so that we in the  southern and eastern side of our great continent can relate more to that office  rather than to Dakar. This will greatly facilitate the work, since East-West  communications in Africa are still far from satisfactory.
14.16 Finally, Mr President, I hope and pray that Unesco will take a clear and  unequivocal decision to concentrate on the achievement of the objectives for  which it was established, to avoid deliberations, declarations and resolutions  which are divisive and set Member States against one another. We must appreciate  that each member of Unesco is a sovereign State with its own ideologies which  must be respected. It is folly to attempt to impose certain ideologies on Member  States, for in our differences and our respect for each other lies our strength.  It would be folly to think otherwise.
14.17 We are particularly appreciative of the sense of solidarity we feel with  the free nations of the world. The future of Southern Africa is still dominated  by the hostile activities of the regional superpower. Daily we have further  tragic evidence of the results of decades of appression. Let me leave you with  the words of my President after the recent military operation carried out by the  Republic of South Africa against my country. This is the message he gave to the  world :  'Botswana is a country of peace-loving and God-fearing people. We have,  in spite of South Africa, developed a system of good government, based  on the consent of the people. We are, moreover, an organized and civil-  ized society that believes in the rule of law. We do not only cherish  our achievements, but we are also proud of them. We pray that some day  South Africa will copy our ways and practise them. It will be a good  thing for South Africa, as good as it is for us. I appeal to them that  they should stop trying to destroy us because of what we stand for,
176    because of the principles we believe in or the civilization we repre-  sent. It is not possible, in spite of all the military power South  Africa possesses and may unleash on us, to destroy our belief in the  rule of law, or traditions, customs and our civilization'.
14.18 Mr President, this message touches the very heart of what Unesco stands  for. The promotion of a better world, of a fairer international community, based  on tolerance and mutual respect, with peace and happiness for all our united aim.  In striving towards the achievement of these objectives, Mr President, Botswana  will not be found wanting. Thank you Mr President.
15. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Botswana et je donne la parole à  S. Exc. Mgr Luigi Poggi, archevêque titulaire de Forontoniana, nonce apostolique  avec charges spéciales, du Saint-Siège.
16.1 Mgr POGGI (Saint-Siège) :  Monsieur le Président, au nom de la délégation du Saint-Siège, je me  permets de vous féliciter de votre élection 2 la présidence de la vingt-troi-  sième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco et de féliciter aussi les  membres du Bureau, les présidents et les membres des différentes commissions qui  ont reçu la tâche importante et délicate de diriger les travaux de cette session  dont on attend beaucoup et sur lesquels reposent tant d'espoirs. Par votre  intermédiaire, Monsieur le Président, la délégation du Saint-Siège remercie les  autorités bulgares pour l'accueil qui nous est réservé dans cette belle ville de  Sofia dont le nom incite à la sagesse.
16.2 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, il y a quarante ans, à un  mois près, l'Unesco, institution spécialisée de l'Organisation des Nations Unies  pour l'éducation, la science et la culture, commençait son cheminement et son  oeuvre pour élever dans l'esprit des hommes les défenses de la paix. Aujourd'hui,  en ces moments où l'Unesco connaît des difficultés, notre délégation tient à  exprimer l'estime que le Saint-Siège porte 2 l'organisation à cause du rôle  majeur qu'il lui reconnaît et de la convergence, sur un certain nombre de ques-  tions fondamentales, des objectifs de l'Unesco avec la mission du Saint-Siège.
16.3 Nous ne voulons pas reprendre ici ce qu'en de multiples circonstances le  Saint-Siège a eu l'occasion de dire à ce sujet, tout particulièrement par la voix  des papes Jean XXIII, Paul VI et Jean-Paul II, comme dans les interventions de  notre délégation aux précédentes sessions de la Conférence générale. Nous dirons  seulement, à l'égard de l'Unesco, que la position du Saint-Siège demeure aussi  nette et aussi ferme que par le passé quant à la validité des objectifs de  l'Unesco.
16.4 Certes, nous savons les problèmes difficiles qui se posent aujourd'hui à  l'organisation. 11 ne nous appartient pas de les évoquer ici dans le détail. Mais  nous tenons à souligner le travail poursuivi par l'Unesco, par son Directeur  général, par son Conseil exécutif, en vue de les résoudre, et les mesures qui ont  déjà été prises dans ce sens. Et nous voudrions insister sur ce qui, pour nous,  constitue l'enjeu fondamental de la crise de l'Organisation, car nous craignons  que les discussions, certes nécessaires pour une large part, ne conduisent, sinon  à le perdre de vue, du moins à le reléguer dans un horizon lointain.
16.5 I1 s'agit d'un aspect de l'idéal et de l'action de l'Unesco, comme  d'ailleurs de 1 Organisation des Nations Unies et des autres institutions spé-  cialisées, mais avec ici un accent propre et plus marqué, du fait de la compé-  tence spécifique de l'Unesco. Un tel aspect doit être rappelé et mis au tout  premier rang. Nous voulons parler de l'universalité de ses objectifs. En y  portant atteinte, on méconnaîtrait la réalité majeure de l'unité de l'humanité,  de la communauté de destin de tous les hommes, par delà les légitimes partages en  nations indépendantes. De cette universalité, L'Unesco contitue, dans l'ordre des  choses de l'esprit, une expression nécessaire, et l'une des plus valables. Ne  sommes-nous pas actuellement dans un monde où cette universalité, qui est de  toujours, se manifeste sans cesse plus concrète et appelle corrélativement, de  plus en plus, des concertations et des réalisations d'envergure universelle ?
16.6 Cette universalité ne doit pas demeurer à un niveau spéculatif. Elle  n'atteindra toute son actualité, toute son efficacité, que si elle se traduit en  termes de solidarité. Nous entendons par là ces échanges, ces coopérations, ces  aides mutuelles par lesquels, tout à la fois, chaque peuple apporte aux autres ce  qui peut leur permettre de réaliser leur développement, leur épanouissement, et  reçoit d'eux des apports semblables. Cela s'impose spécialement à une époque où  des peuples qui, en grand nombre, ont récemment accédé à l'indépendance, re-  courent à cette universalité pour être mieux reconnus et pour s'affirmer dans  leur singularité.
16.7 Affalblir l'universalité de l'Unesco serait compromettre gravement la  mise en oeuvre de la solidarité, tout particulièrement de la coopération multi-  latérale, dont nous savons certes les limites, mais qui a des vertus que ne  saurait offrir au mëme degré, si nécessaire et valable qu'elle soit par ailleurs,  la seule coopération bilatérale.
16.8 Organisation de caractère universel, de par sa nature même, l'Unesco  s'est vu confier dans cette perspective, par son Acte constitutif, une oeuvre de  paix. Ici non plus, nous n'avons pas à redire ce que, maintes fois, le Saint-  Siège a tenu à souligner : l'importance majeure de cet objectif. Qu'il suffise de  rappeler ce qui a été dit à cet égard de façon ample, profonde et actuelle,  notamment dans l'encyclique Pacem in terris du pape Jean XXIII ; en effet, la  paix n'est pas seulement absence de guerre ; elle est avant tout absence de la  peur de la guerre ; elle a aussi ,d'autres synonymes tels que : réconciliation,  coopération internationale, développement et progrès intégral de l'homme.
16.9 Puisse-t-on mieux comprendre que l'Unesco n'accomplira vraiment cette  oeuvre de paix que dans le domaine exact de sa compétence, avant tout par ses  investigations et ses réalisations concernant l'éducation, la science, la cul-  ture, et maintenant la communication ; tâches auxquelles, de fait et depuis  longtemps, elle consacre de loin la plus grande part de ses activités et de ses  ressources et sur lesquelles s'accordent ses Etats membres ! De bien moindre  importance et souvent même source de péril pour son unité, sont. à cet égard, nous  semble-t-il, les dissertations et discours trop généraux, qui ne font d'ailleurs  que re rendre des points de vue déjà maintes fois exprimés et qui sont à l'ori-  gine d équivoques et de vains affrontements.
16.10 11 serait extrêmement regrettable que la polarisation sur de telles  questions et les controverses qu'elles entraînent compromettent la poursuite de  l'oeuvre de l'Unesco, en soi si constructive et de si grande importance ;  qu'elles conduisent aussi à la méconnaître, ce qui, hélas I ,  est déjà souvent le  cas dans des milieux qui ont mission, à divers titres, de traiter des affaires de  l'Unesco, comme dans une part notable de l'opinion publique, pas toujours bien  informée.
16.11 Sans s'engager dans une appréciation détaillée du programme soumis à la  Conférence générale, la délégation du Saint-Siège voudrait souligner l'intérêt  tout particulier qu'elle porte au programme concernant la culture et au projet  d'une Décennie mondiale du développement culturel. A côté de l'oeuvre fondamen-  tale que l'Unesco poursuit depuis sa fondation dans les domaines de l'éducation  et de la science, l'ayant rendue sans cesse plus adaptée et plus efficace par une  longue expérience - ce qui n'est pas assez reconnu -, et sans oublier le domaine  de la communication, le domaine de la culture nous apparaît comme celui qui est  appelé à connaître les plus notables développements et où se posent les problèmes  les plus neufs. I1 constitue un secteur dont la portée pour l'épanouissement de  l'homme, dont l'enjeu spirituel, apparaissent sans cesse mieux reconnus. C'est ce  qu'a attesté notamment l'accueil que l'Unesco a réservé au discours prononcé dans  son enceinte par le pape Jean-Paul II, qui invitait à déterminer, dans ses  aspects les plus profonds, la nature et la portée de la culture.
16.12 Nous voudrions, en terminant, souligner que les insistances exprimées  dans notre intervention sont avant tout inspirées par l'attitude que s'est  toujours fixée 1'Eglise catholique à l'égard des objectifs de l'organisation. I1  ne lui appartient pas de s'immiscer dans les aspects pratiques et purement  temporels de son action, mais elle estime devoir l'apprécier au nom de sa mission  spriritueiie et de l'éthique. Le Saint-Siège souhaite que les Etats membres de
1 Organisation soient toujours plus conscients de cet enjeu supérieur des objec-  tifs de l'Unesco et reconnaissent toujours mieux l'importance de son rôle. Ils  devraient mieux mesurer leurs responsabilités à ce sujet. On voudrait que son  avenir leur tienne encore davantage à coeur.
16.13 Alors, au-delà de tant de soucis, de difficultés, et d'inévitables  divergences, auxquels l'organisation est aujourd'hui confrontée, c'est dans une  espérance, non pas naïve, mais ferme et éclairée, que nous pourrons voir l'Unesco  poursuivre et mieux accomplir les tâches qui lui ont été fixées, dans une coopé-  ration et un dialogue qui supposent et qui visent une pleine et vraie compréhen-  sion entre ses Etats membres et une ouverture mutuelle qui progresse entre eux.  Merci de votre attention.
17. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie S. Exc. M$r Luigi Poggi et je donne la parole à S. Exc.  Mme Graça Machel, ministre de 1 éducation et chef de la délégation du Mozambique.
18.1 Mrs MACHEL (Mozambique) :  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the People's Republic  P
6  of Mozambique, I convey my congratulations to you, Mr President, on your election  to the presidency of this important twenty-third session of the General Confer-  ence. I should also like to express my gratitude for the hearty welcome offered  to us by the Government and the people of the People's Republic of Bulgaria and  praise the excellent organization which will facilitate the progress of our work  here in Sofia.
18.2 I congratulate the Chairman of the Executive Board for the decisions  taken by the Board, which constitute the reference point for the main decisions  of this session.
18.3 I also would like to pay tribute to the Director-General, Mr Amadou-  Mahtar M'Bow, for the courage, dedication and dynamism which characterize his  activity in Unesco. His activities are an important contribution from Africa  towards the noble objectives of this Organization, which is the repository of the  cultural heritage of mankind.
18.4 The People's Republic of Mozambique reiterates its support for your  involvement in the search for solutions to the current problems which affect our  countries and which come within Unesco's fields of competence.
18.5 We greet the delegations whose presence testifies to their confidence in  the future of this important Organization.
18.6 Mr President, distinguished delegates, there exists at this session a  certain apprehension and expectancy concerning the future of our Organization. It  is frequently said that there is a crisis in Unesco. However, is this crisis only  negative in aspect? In our opinion, it is a crisis due to the Organization's  development. The number of its Member States has increased as well as its respon-  sibilities in the face of the scope and complexity of the problems confronting  the world today.
18.7 The achievement of independence by our countries naturally provokeü a  desire to see reflected in this important Organization the problems which affects  us and which are identified as the main problems of mankind.
18.8 Thus we must transform this Conference into a moment of reflection, a  moment of smooth and deep analysis, a creative and revigorating moment. It is up  to each Member State to participate in a constructive way within and not outside  the Organization in the search for the effective implementation of the most ade-  quate solutions to the problems it faces.
18.9 At the last General Conference we approved programmes which are now on-  going in several countries and whose successes are linked to technical and man-  agement solutions. However, the conception and implementation of educational,  scientific and cultural programmes always depend upon the political, social,  economic and cultural conditions and on the context in which they take place.  Thus none of these programmes can be fully implemented without peace.
18.10 Peace should not just be considered as an absence of war. In order to  have peace, there is a need to prevent the causes which originate war - the in-  equalities and injustice among men and nations. Peace will be strengthened if the  huge investments in weapons industries and if the knowledge and techniques there  employed are placed at the disposal of man to struggle against famine and disease  and to serve the development of science, education and culture.
18.11 We in Mozambique are faced with an imperialist war of aggression which  has South Africa as its main executive instrument. In our region - Southern  Africa - the apartheid regime oppresses ana massacres the black South Africans  just because they are black. The apartheid regime aggresses and occupies neigh-  bouring countries, denies their right to independence and to progress.
18.12 In this context, peace and disarmament are essential conditions for the  development of out country. For us.peace is a question of survival. Peace, as is  stressed in our Constitution, is a strongly defended ideal.
18.13 With independence we inherited an economy which places us in a dependent  position worsened by the international economic crisis. We belong to the  countries which have raw materials without the capacity to transform them; we do  not fix their prices in the international market and thus we are always subject  to an unequal exchange. The gap existing between us and the.developed and indus-  trialized countries, which continuously increase their profits, is growing. They  possess scientific and technological knowledge, and they transform our raw  materials into consumer goods and then export them to our countries, placing us  in the position of permanent debtors.
18.14 For us, this situation does not constitute a fatality. We are absolutely  determined to harness our resources and overcome this situation of underdevelop-  ment and to reduce as rapidly as possible this scientific and technological back-  wardness. That is why we attach great importance to the New International  Economic Order which the General Assembly of the United Nations and Unesco have  dealt with at length.
18.15 The information diffused about our real situation is usually distorted  by those who control the principal means of information. We lack the means to  combat this misinformation. For this reason we support Major Programme III, which  is vital for our country.
18.16 We congratulate the way in which Unesco, in its fields of competence,  promotes education, science and culture and furthers the scientific approach and  the resolution of the main problems of mankind. However, as a result of the  dynamic of development of the institutions which Unesco embraces and particularly  in view of the situation through which it is passing, a moment of reflection  seems necessary for us, as well as internal changes in the administrative order,  which might simplify methods of work and lead to the decentralization of the  Organization's activities with a view to greater effectiveness at Headquarters  and in the Regional Offices in the execution and implementation of its  programmes.
18.17 Mr President, this year the People's Republic of Mozambique celebrated  the tenth anniversary of its independence. It was an excellent opportunity to  take stock of the main achievements of the last years as well as of the difficul-  ties caused by the actions of armed bandits and of the natural calamities which  have befallen our country. In recent years, drought laid waste several regions of  our country and famine decimated thousands of people. Currently, our country has  about 14 million inhabitants; it is a very young population, but with a very  short life expectancy.
18.18 We have chosen a socialist system of development which liberates man  from exploitation and obscurantism. We have been making every effort to organize  the defence of our sovereignty, to increase agricultural and industrial produc-  tion in order to combat famine, and to develop communication and transport net-  works and the reorganization of enterprises. In rural areas the development of  co-operatives and of individual and private producton, the improvement of dis-  tribution networks and the consolidation of the functioning of the assemblies  elected by the people continue.
18.19 The introduction of new values has led to new forms of social inter-  course, to the rejection of tribalism and to the acquisition of a scientific and  anti-racist mentality. The training of cadres for economic and social sectors  during this phase merited our special attention. In the rural areas, all develop-  ment projects placed the main emphasis on the training of cadres.
18.20 As far as education is concerned, the National System of Education which  was introduced at the beginning of 1983 is being actively implemented. Next year,  the fourth class of general education and third-year adult education will be  introduced and extended to several regions of the country. Since independence,  the number of pupils in primary education has doubled and the number of pupils in  secondary education has tripled. Every year we produce more books for pupils and  guides for teachers. The rate of illiteracy has been reduced by 20 per cent since  independence, and it currently stands at about 72 per cent. Unesco has supported  this work with distinction, especially in regard to the training of personnel in  the production of teaching materials, curriculum planning, educational research  methodology and documentation.
18.21 We are an African socialist, non-aligned and anti-racist country situ-  ated in Southern Africa, a zone of conflict. We have borders with South Africa,  which perpetuates the system of apartheid. Apartheid generates instability and  violence in our region. This regime which advocates racial and social discrimin-  ation is an enemy of peace both within and beyond its borders. The phenomenon of  armed banditry was conceived and organized by South Africa and its allies in  order to destabilize our country. A few weeks ago we presented to the world docu-  ments seized by our Armed Forces in a base of the armed bandits within our terri-  tory which testify to the involvement of South Africa and its allies in providing  strategic and military support to the armed bandits whose objectives are nothing  else than the murder of defenceless people and the destruction of our economy.
18.22 To enable you to understand the criminal effects of the armed banditry,  I should simply like to mention that up to July 1984 more than 1,400 primary  schools were forced to close down, affecting more than 230,000 pupils, and  hundreds of health centres, which serve millions of inhabitants, were destroyed.
18.23 However, we would.like to stress that we will continue to be anti-racist  and anti-apartheid and to struggle energically against injustice, oppression and  all forms of social discrimination. We are aware that the solution of this prob-  lem depends on our own efforts and determination. We. would like once more to  emphasize our gratitude to those countries and international organizations which  support us in a true spirit of international solidarity.
18.24 The Southern African Development of Communication Conference (SADCC),  which brings together the countries of Southern Africa, is an initiative aimed at  reducing economic dependence on South Africa. It is at the same time a strategy  for development and an instrument of struggle against apartheid. It is with  satisfaction that we feel a strong and decisive support from many countries and  financing agencies in the implementation of the programmes of SADCC. We are  fighting strongly for the elimination of the destabilization factors so that we  can build in peace a free, prosperous and independent nation. We appeal to the  international community to act with all means at its disposal against all those  who support the armed bandits and their criminal plans.
18.25 Mr President, the Programme and Budget for 1986-1987 prepared by the  Secretariat of Unesco and which the Executive Board recommended to this session  of the General Conference is, in truth, a good working document which indicates  alternatives and options, selects operational priorities and presents detailed  budget estimates which will allow us to decide upon transfers or concentration of  activities at the level of subprogrammes. I would also like to emphasize that the  strategy for action put forward by the Director-General clarifies the content of  the programmes and provides broad information which will greatly facilitates  analysis.
18.26 The focus of our attention with regard to the Programme and Budget for
1986-1987 is, on the one hand, Major Programmes I, III, VIII, XII and XII1 relat-  ing to major world problems and, on the other, the major programmes relating to  education, science and culture.
10.27 In our opinion, these major programmes cover issues whose scope goes  beyond the preoccupations of any one of our Member States. Their inclusion in the  activities of Unesco is justified by the fact that contemporary world problems  cannot be appropriately resolved unless we consider the causes which give rise to  them. These programmes deal with questions which are not limited to the develop-  ing Member States but which also necessarily concern developed countries.  Unesco's contribution to the solution of the problems covered in these programmes  constitutes a precondition for the effective realization of the Organization's  other activities.
10.28 Our experience shows that it is not possible to conceive economic and  social development without eliminating war, which constitutes one of the main  obstacles for the transformation and improvement of living conditions, especially  in rural areas. In the specific situation of Southern Africa, peace will only be  guaranteed with the elimination of apartheid - the cause of destabilization and  danger for mankind. The international community has many times confirmed this  view. However, it is necessary that more concrete and effective measures be  taken.
10.29 The recommendations made by the Executive Board deserve our approval. It  seems to us that this Conference should aim at achieving consensus on the  improvement or solution of the major problems which affect the Member States.
18.30 The People's Republic of Mozambique will continue to participate in the  activities proposed in Major Programme XII, particularly with respect to co-  ordination with the Front-line States. It is important to add that, in the con-  text of Major Programme XII, the People's Republic of Mozambique will propose  ways of co-operating with Unesco in accordance with the conclusions of the  regional seminar on 'The role of the teacher in the struggle against apartheid',  which will shortly end its works in Maputo. Teachers from several African  countries and other continents with valuable experience in the struggle against  racism and apartheid are participating in this seminar.
18.31 We devote special attention to the training activities foreseen in Major  Programme III, from which the Portuguese-speaking African countries can benefit.  We hope that the steps already taken towards the creation of an Inter-State  School of Journalism will materialize in Maputo next month. It will respond to  the needs of our countries, contributing to the solid technical and scientific  training of journalists.
18.32 We also believe that we must continue the programme for the development  of communication in rural areas, taking into account the main recommendations of  the subregional seminar on population and development which took place in Maputo
181    and in which the Portuguese-speaking African countries participated with the  support of Unesco and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities.
18.33 We also would like to reaffirm our special interest in the area of edu-  cation covered by Major Programmes II, IV and V pertaining to the fight against  illiteracy and the mastery of science and technology for the more rapid develop-  ment of our country. We think that we must emphasize the importance which we  attach to the education of new generations for peace, as also included in the  Programme and Budget for 1986-1987. In fact, education is one of the most  decisive factors in the acquisition of values and of the spirit of solidarity and  understanding, among people of different races and religions. We attach, like-  wise, special attention to the programme for the elimination of illiteracy,  directed equally towards primary education for literacy and adult education.
18.34 The People's Republic of Mozambique invests a considerable part of its  resources in the area of education. In our annual budget, the education sector  gets a larger share of the funds than the other economic and social sectors,  which in itself indicates the concern and the importance that the government  attaches to this area. In co-operation with Unesco in the coming years and over  the next cycle of the United Nations Development Programme, we will focus our  attention on the training of teachers, the production of books for junior pupils  and adults, the production of teaching materials and the development of the  National System of Education. We are convinced that the success of a national  education system depends on the application of the adopted strategy, the material  produced, educational follow-up and the teachers trained.
18.35 The regional co-operation which Unesco will be able to develop through  the activities of the Regional Office for Education in Africa will be for us  included in the context of these priorities. The strengthening and the effective  functioning of the Subregional Office for Education in Harare falls within the  same perspective of regional co-operation, which we support. It will be a valu-  able instrument in the implementation of the regional programme for the elimin-  ation of illiteracy in Southern Africa. Still on education, we would like to  stress the importance of the programme on technical and vocational training. It  does not seem to us that this programme has been given the importance it deserves  within the framework of Unesco's activities.
18.36 We would like to mention that the contribution from the Unesco National  Institute for the Development of Education (INDE) was important for the implemen-  tation of the National System of Education. Finally, Mr President, it would be  difficult to end our appreciation without taking into account the contribution  made by the International Institute for Education Planning in the training of our  education planners.
18.37 Mr President, apart from education Unesco is co-operating with the  People's Republic of Mozambique in the areas of the natural sciences. Our  interest is basically centred on the programme on hydrology which devotes special  attention to the survey of water resources, the quality of the water and the  training of medium- and high-level qualified cadres in the Institute of Water  Resources, in accordance with the recommendation of the International Symposium  which took place in Maputo in 1984.
18.38 As far as Major Programme XI is concerned, the People's Republic of  Mozambique appreciates the importance given to the value and individuality of  national cultures. We live in a period in which mass communication aims at uni-  formity of cultural behaviour and where technological development exerts a strong  influence, not always positive, on cultural values. We also express interest in  benefiting from the experience of Unesco in the study of the Mozambique languages  with a view to their objective and efficient use in communication and education.
18.39 The participation of the people in the enhancement and preservation of  the cultural heritage is for us a sensitive point. In this way, identification  with our historic and cultural past is possible. Our country expresses the wish  to place the 'Ilha de Mocambique' on the list of cultural heritage of mankind,  and we will shortly submit an application in this regard. What is of interest in  this context for our government is the battle we are fighting for the conser-  vation and restoration of this valuable national historic monument, which at the  same time, because of the variety of cultures it comprises, is part of the his-  toric heritage of mankind.
18.40 Lastly, I would also like to mention the importance of Major Pro-  gramme XIV on the emancipation of women, an important factor in the struggle for  equality and social justice. The elimination of the causes of social inequality  is the only guarantee of the true emancipation of women. The emancipation of  women is the basic principle of our country. Women are an active element at  several levels of political decision-making and are the promoters of development
182    strategies. They participate energetically in the state institutions and take on  full responsibilities in different economic and social sectors. They play a  significant role in the education of children and in family stability. In  Mozambique, the participation of women in the tasks of national reconstruction on  the same footing as men is a political option, an essential condition for devel-  opment, is a guarantee for the consolidation and victory of our ideas.
18.41 Mr President, I am certain that under your direction the work we have to  do will be successfully carried out in a calm atmosphere with deep careful con-  sideration and with serious, fruitful discussion which will foster the prestige  of our Organization and the active participation of Member States in the search  for better solutions to the major problems of mankind. Thank you for your  attention.
19. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Mozambique et je donne la parole  à S. Exc. Mme Marilyn Gordon, ministre de l'éducation et chef de la délégation de  la Trinité et Tobago.
20.1 Mrs GORDON (Trinidad and Tobago) :  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, it is my  pleasure on behalf of the Government and people of the Republic of Trinidad and  Tobago to congratulate you, Mr President and the other members of the General  Committee on your election to your respective offices. This Conference, Mr Presi-  dent, is of particular significance to our Organization and the delegation of  Trinidad and Tobago is confident that your wisdom, patience and experience will  guide our deliberations to a fruitful conclusion.
20.2 We come to this Conference saddened by the pain and loss suffered by the  Mexican people during two recent disastrous earthquakes. On behalf of the Govern-  ment and people of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago I wish to offer to the  Government and people of Mexico (our brothers and sisters in the Latin American  and Caribbean region) our sincere condolences on their tragic loss.
20.3 Natural disasters such as these by their very scale and unpredictability  serve to remind us of our vulnerability. They reinforce our feelings of belonging  to a single human family. On the other hand, disasters caused by man's inhumanity  to man have a strikingly opposite effect. It was the trauma resulting from man's  inhumanity to man, on an unprecedented and incredible scale 40 years ago, that  resulted in the creation of Unesco. But have we learnt the lessons of that period  of man-made catastrophe of 40 years ago, Mr President? Despite the tremendous  strides that this Organization has made in helping nations to develop, we see the  spectre of man's inhumanity to man again threatening world peace.
20.4 Mr President, the continuing existence of the odious system of apartheid.  in South Africa is a cause of great concern to the Government and people of  Trinidad and Tobago. My government has consistently expressed its abhorrence of  apartheid while condemning the policy and practice of the system. Furthermore,  Trinidad and Tobago has maintained a ban on all political, commercial, sporting  and cultural links with South Africa. Recent incursions into neighbouring States  by the militarist forces of that regime have served only to strengthen our abhor-  rence. Nevertheless, Mr President, we are somewhat heartened by the emerging  groundswell of public opinion against apartheid - a groundswell which has forced  certain governments to exert more direct pressure on the South African Govern-  ment. That pressure must be sustained and indeed widened, if we are to achieve  the objective of the destruction of apartheid.
20.5 Mr President, today, more than ever before, education, science, tech-  nology and culture remain essential elements not only in enhancing the quality of  life of all peoples but also in preserving world peace.
20.6 The Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago remains firm in  its support for this Organization,. which has done so much for the developing  world. My Government reaffirms its confidence in and support for the present  Director-General, H.E. Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow.
20.7 Unesco must remain committed to the complex, laborious, and awe-  inspiring task of constructing 'the defences of peace in the minds of men'.  Familiarity with that striking phrase ought not to blind us to its meaning.  Unesco is in a position to demonstrate that progress towards peace can be  attained by the slow and painstaking process of people learning to work together  in small groups, in the important areas of education, science and culture, across  regional and ideological lines. Moreover, for this process of the meeting of  minds, Unesco has been especially well equipped. I refer to its links with a  variety of non-governmental organizations and to the unique institution of  National. Commissions which form an invisible but powerful network of friendly
183    personal contacts throughout the world. Indeed, National Commissions are reaching  across both national and regional barriers to build bridges of co-operation  between all regions. It is this process that will eventually give us the capacity  to appreciate and .to recognize our inescapable interdependence. Such small but  growing signs of h6pe need to be treasured and encouraged.
20.8 Mr President, we believe that one essential requirement for Unesco's  effectiveness in the building of mental bridges is universality of represen-  tation. Trinidad and Tobago therefore appeals to all States which have left or  are contemplating leaving this organization to show their concern for the future  by remaining in rather than opting out of the Organization.
20.9 Within that concept of universality, it is essential that all States,  regardless of size or economic strength should continue to have the right to  participate on an equal basis with. all other States. This is in the interest of  all of us. Wisdom, Mr President, is not necessarily a function of size or a by-  product of strength. The history of the dinosaurs has taught us that size and  strength do not guarantee the survival of any species. The survival of man owes  less to brute strength and more to a superior flexibility of mind and to the  capacity for devising innovative solutions to problems. In that context, it is  obvious that the international system of multilateral exchange needs the small  States almost as much as the small and the weak need the system of  multilateralism.
20.10 Mr President, we in Trinidad and Tobago have always believed that any  organization which has lived through the turbulent experiences of the last 40  years must undoubtedly benefit from review and evaluation. We firmly believe that  Unesco is emerging from that process of review with a renewal of vigour and a  more sharply focused sense of purpose. We are satisfied that the initiatives  undertaken by both the Executive Board and the Director-General are demonstrating  the capacity of the Organization to adjust to a challenging future. Those adjust-  ments will necessarily have to be made on a continuing basis, and we note that a  generally acceptable timetable has been worked out.
20.11 Mr President, Trinidad and Tobago would particularly wish to congratu-  late the Director-General and his Secretariat on the clear presentation of the  Draft Programme and Budget in both volumes of document 23 C/5. At the same time,  we particularly compliment the Executive Board on its laborious and skilful work  in establishing both the guidelines and the priorities on which that Draft Pro-  gramme and Budget has been based.
20.12 We accept the compromises worked out by the Executive Board as a basis  for establishing priorities. Within the Programme Commissions, however, we shall  of course be making known our points of view on the specific programmes and  activities, which may necessitate some slight re-allocation of resources within  the already agreed limits.
20.13 There are, however, two matters that I would like to single out for  attention now, since they affect Unesco's capacity to assist the process of  building bridges of understanding and co-operation on which we have already  placed emphasis.
20.14 One matter that we find under-emphasized in the Draft Programme and  Budget is the urgent need to stimulate creativity as a problem-solving capacity.  As we have previously stressed, Mr President, it is the capacity to find innova-  tive solutions that has so far ensured the survival of man. However, with  incredible perversity, man appears to be relegating creative thinking to the  narrow spectrum of the creative arts. We would like to urge that the question of  stimulating creative thinking and problem-solving should be regarded as an urgent  priority in the context of Major Programme I, World problems and future-oriented  studies. Perhaps a start could be made by initiating international, interdisci-  plinary studies which might subsequently lead to an international symposium on  that subject. We do not believe that this will be a costly exercise, since it is  proposed that Unesco's initiative should at this stage be limited to determining  existing sources of information and suggesting a co-ordinated approach.
20.15 The other matter that I would wish to refer to now relates to the rela-  tive lack of provision for overcoming language barriers. It is true that Major  Programme IV provides for language teaching in relation to African mother tongues  and also within Europe. However, the reduction of language barriers is a matter  of critical concern to the Latin American and Caribbean Region, where Spanish,  Portuguese, English, Dutch, French and Hindi, as well as several Amerindian  languages and creole dialects, Co-exist and form a very serious barrier to mutual  Understanding and co-operation. It is a large problem and will require innovative  and urgent strategies for its solution.
20.16 Mr President, from a Caribbean perspective, we believe that we can make  a concrete suggestion for improving Unesco's functioning in one other important  area. That is the extremely complex area of. increasing Unesco's capacity for  intersectoral action, particularly in the context of decentralization. This is a  matter that has occupied the attention of the Organization for some time and it  would be unwise to believe that there is any one simple solution. Nevertheless,  we believe that a practical and cost-effective administrative model should be  tested in the Caribbean subregion where certain prerequisites are already  present.
20.17 In 1978, Mr President, Unesco established in the Caribbean a unique  intersectoral office to overcome the problem of the isolation of the English-  speaking and Dutch-speaking subregion from the regional sectoral offices which  had long been established in the Spanish-speaking Latin American countries since  those countries were, as you recall, among the founders of this Organization.
20.18 The Caribbean Intersectoral Office has responsibility for 13 independent  and nine associate Member States. These countries cover an area from Belize in  the North to Suriname in the South which is roughly equivalent to the distance  between London and Athens.' Travel and communication within that area are both  costly and time-consuming. An even more critical problem is that each of the  sectoral Advisers attached to this Intersectoral Office is required to maintain  separate and distinct lines of authority with Headquarters and with the Regional  Sectoral offices. Moreover, each one is required to obtain funds on an ad hoc  basis without previously having the opportunity to make an input into the bien-  nial programme activity details (PADS), from a Caribbean point of view. In these  circumstances, it has become almost impossible for the Head of the Intersectoral  Office to develop the kind of integrated, intersectoral approach for which this  office provides a unique opportunity.
20.19 The Fourth Meeting of Caribbean Ministers Responsible for Unesco  Affairs, held in Port of Spain on 2-5 September this year, has accordingly pro-  posed certain administrative changes that could serve as a possible model for  effective decentralization and intersectoral activities. In addition, the Carib-  bean Ministers have proposed that Unesco establish a low-cost micro-computer con-  ferencing system through which all the sectoral advisers, as well as the national  Commissions, can exchange information and identify opportunities for inter-  sectoral activities on an ongoing basis. It is equally feasible for the system to  establish links directly with the Sectors in Unesco Headquarters. That in itself  would have the welcome effect of encouraging these sectors to create a joint  information format rather than the separate approaches which at present place an  unnecessary strain on the region. It should be emphasized that an essential  feature of the micro-computer conferencing system is that it establishes direct  contact between people, regardless of time difference, as well as providing  access to the relevant data bases.
20.20 We believe that the implications of this approach are sufficiently sig-  nificant to bring it to the attention of this body. The Fourth Meeting of Carib-  bean Ministers responsible for Unesco Affairs made recommendations on several  additional aspects of the problem of decentralization as it affects the Caribbean  area. Since those are somewhat specific to the area, I will not delay you with  the details here, but would request your permission to append to the text of this  statement a copy of the communication transmitted to the Executive Board.*
20.21 Mr President, we welcome the increased allocation for training activi-  ties in a number of areas. We believe that this approach correctly emphasizes the  developmental needs of Member States. Within the Caribbean subregion, we propose  to take a joint approach, as far as possible, in utilizing training provisions  that are of common interest, notably in the fields of educational management and  planning and in extending the applications of new technology within the education  system.
20.22 Mr President, Trinidad and Tobago places particular emphasis on science  and technology, and notes with satisfaction the provision in the Draft Programme  and Budget for the operation of the new Caribbean Science and Technology Infor-  mation Network (CARSTIN). We would however wish to see the Caribbean included in  the regional activities in the area of microbiology. We acknowledge the work of  the interdisciplinary team which examined the marine sciences needs of the Carib-  bean earlier this year, and wish to emphasize the willingness of our Institute of  marine Affairs to co-operate with Unesco and the rest of the Caribbean in this  field. To support and extend Unesco's important work in the Caribbean in all  areas of science and technology, it is of the utmost importance for the post of  * The undelivered part of the speaker's statement is, with the authoriz-  ation of the President, annexed to the verbatim record of the meeting.
18 5    subregional Science adviser to be made permanent as unanimously recommended by  the CASTALAC II Conference held in Brasilia in September this year. It would be  most unfortunate if the recommendations of that Conference failed to find a place  in the programme .and budget for the new biennium, even if this requires the  transfer of resources.
20'.23 Trinidad and Tobago looks forward to the World Decade for Cultural  Development. We hope that the provision for a subregional adviser in culture,  which has finally been included in the Draft Programme and Budget, will be  endorsed. Similarly, we look forward to support for the initiation of a mobile  museum of Caribbean heritage which could serve to enhance museum development  throughout the Caribbean.
20.24 There is, Mr President, one problem which I must respectfully bring to  the attention of this body. You will recall that I previously stressed our belief  that size is no indication of wisdom. Nor is it any indication of the potential  contribution which many, small States can make to the work of Unesco. In that con-  text, it will not surprise you to learn that the 13 small but independent States  which comprise the English-speaking and Dutch-speaking Caribbean subregion  believe that they are entitled to a level of representation on the Executive  Board of Unesoc commensurate with their numbers. They are reinforced in this  belief by the fact that the number of seats allocated to the Latin American and  Caribbean region was increased to nine as a result of the number of Caribbean  States which upon independence became Members of Unesco.
20.25 May I add, Mr President, that Trinidad and Tobago, which has been an  active member of Unesco for 22 years, is seeking election to the Executive Board  for the first time at this session. This is in contrast to several States in our  region which have been frequently re-elected. Trinidad and Tobago's candidature  for the seat being vacated by Jamaica has received the endorsement of the  English-speaking and Dutch-speaking Caribbean States.
20.26. Mr President, we are confident that all Member States of the Latin  American and Caribbean region will devote their energies to the urgent task of  building bridges of co-operation on the basis of mutual respect and understand-  ing, particularly within the context of technical co-operation between developing  countries (TCDC) .
20.27 The Americas and the Caribbean have often been referred to as the New  World. I wish to assure you Mr President, that the Government of the Republic of  Trinidad and Tobago will participate in efforts at co-operation which are de-  signed to give new meaning to that title. This will be yet another of our con-  crete contributions to giving substance to the spirit of Unesco's mandate.
20.28. Mr President, through you I wish to convey my government's sincere  appreciation and congratulations to the Government and people of Bulgaria for the  warm welcome and excellent facilities which they have made available to all of us  here at Sofia. I thank you, Mr President.
21. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Trinité et Tobago et je donne  la parole à S. Exc. M. Jasé Ramón Fernández Alvarez, vice-président du Conseil  des ministres, ministre de l'éducation et chef de la délégation de Cuba.
(22.1) Mr FERNANDEZ ALVAREZ (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish):  Comrade President of the Conference, Mr Director-General, members of the  General committee, ladies and gentlemen, we have assembled for this twenty-third  session of the General Conference of Unesco with the firm intention of finding sol-  utions to the major problems obstructing the development of education, science,  culture and communication in our time and of learning to know and exchange experience  with the delegates from all over the world who are attending this important biennial  event in the welcoming capital of the People's Republic of Bulgaria, to whose kindred  people, Party and Government we express our delegation's appreciation of the magnifi-  cent preparations made to receive us. I wish to offer Comrade Todorov my heartiest  congratulations on his election to the office of President and likewise to congratu-  late the other members of the General Committee.
(22.2) I should like to take this opportunity of commenting on the firm and un-  ruffled stance adopted by the Director-General, Mr M'Bow, in defending the democratic  and universalist principles on which Unesco is based, the equality of sovereign States  and the mandate that he has received from them. This stance has earned him the grati-  tude of the international community and represents a valuable contribution to multi-  lateral co-operation and the defence of the United Nations system.
(22.3) There are many matters to be discussed at this Conference, all of them  important but one of vital significance for the accomplishment of its tasks and the  execution of its activities. I refer to the Draft Programme and Budget for 1986-1987,  Cuba attaches the utmost importance to the Major Project in the Field of Education in  Latin America and the Caribbean included in Major Programme II, 'Education for all',  in which it is an interested participant and whose basic objectives it has already  achieved, thanks to its efforts since January 1959, as shown by the system's perform-  ance indicators.
(22.4) The latest population and housing census, carried out in 1981, showed a  school enrolment rate of 97.2 per cent and 92.4 per cent for the 6 to 12 and 6 to 16  age-groups respectively. In the 1984-1985 school year, 3,112,428 students were  enrolled out of a total population of about 10 million. The retention rate in 1983-
1984 was 97 per cent and very high levels of graduation were recorded.
(22.5) The literacy rate, which was 23.6 per cent at the time of the 1953 population  and housing census, had dropped to 3.9 per cent by 1961 as a result of the national  literacy campaign, and according to the 1981 census only 1.9 per cent of the popu-  lation aged between 10 and 49 are now unable to read and write. The successful drive  to make the sixth grade the minimum level of education for all workers - reflected in  the average of 6.4 grades of schooling for the Cuban population - encouraged the Cuban  workers' Union to make the 'battle for the ninth grade' the priority of the labour  movement, setting a target of over half a million adults completing ninth grade  schooling by 1985.
(22.6) Great efforts have been made to implement the plan for the improvement of the  national education system, including critical analyses, forecasts and research proj-  ects, new plans and programmes, revision of methods and preparation of teaching aids  and textbooks.
(22.7) Comrade President, it is our firm opinion that the budget before us, which we  must seek to continue rationalizing, is a satisfactory document. We further consider  that the lines of emphasis of the major programmes have been well drawn, that they  reflect Unesco's objectives and are designed to contribute to the development of edu-  cation, science, technology and cultural co-operation, to give the underdeveloped  countries more help in their effort to extricate themselves from their present situ-  ation, and to serve humankind in its struggle against colonialism, neo-colonialism,  apartheid, informational imperialism and all kinds of discrimination.
(22.8) The recent meeting of the non-aligned countries in Luanda undertook an inten-  sive analysis of a world with insufficient financial resources that is spending  irrational amounts on the stockpiling of arms, a world in which the gulf between the  developed countries and those struggling to develop is enormous, a world in which  children are deprived of food, teachers, doctors and medicine, a world in which an  unpayable external debt is crushing the economies of the underdeveloped countries,  accentuating their difficulties and paralysing their development potential.
(22.9) We therefore affirm, with the President of the Council of State and the  Council of Ministers, Commandant Fidel Castro, that 'it is imperative that the debt  problem be solved as a matter of urgency ... Development is the task of the moment,  the vital and basic priority of each and every human being, and a common cause in  which everyone can unite ... The crisis is so severe that the countries of the Third  World must think, combine forces and seek solutions without any reference to militancy  or political ideology, for what is at stake is their very survival ... It would be a  sign of great wisdom to associate the first step towards reducing military spending  with the efforts to solve international economic problems'. Cuba therefore considers  that the debt should be cancelled and the obligations to the banks assumed by the  creditor countries, who could cover the cost involved by slightly reducing their  military spending, without damaging their economies. This would be a decisive step  towards achieving the wider and more comprehensive objective of establishing a new  international economic order. It is the only way we shall be able to perform the lofty  socio-cultural tasks for which this Organization was established.
(22.10) The introduction of a new international economic order is becoming increas-  ingly relevant, since cancellation of the external debt would not be enough in itself  to enable us to exercise our right to economic development. That would require, among  other things, the abolition of unequal trade relations and protectionism and the  negotiation of profitable prices for our exports.
(22.11) With regard to communication, we must recognize that current exchanges of  telecommunications and data-processing technology pose A serious challenge for the  developing countries and raise a great many questions for them. The draft programme  and budget gives considerable attention to the new technologies, but there is a tend-  ency to give precedence to quantitative over qualitative aspects. Our problems will  not be solved by transfers of equipment but rather by a clear understanding of what we  have to do and how we are to use the technology in the framework of an independent  development strategy.
(22.12) Few Third World countries have national communication policies because, for  the most part, they do not have a clear picture of the changes occurring in the sector  or of the dangers involved, for instance new forms of dependence and neo-colonial  domination. While the industrialized countries advance at an ever more rapid pace in  the field of informatics, the Third World countries are expected to accept these  fundamental changes passively as an 'evolving and continuous' process, which amounts  to legitimizing the state of backwardness and dependence of 75 per cent of humankind  in information, and perpetuating the supremacy of an élite of big transnational  corporations from a small number of countries. There is thus an urgent need to define  the scope of certain concepts and to formulate poljcies that do not help to perpetuate  injustice and underdevelopment.
(22.13) The Secretariat of Unesco has made a great effort, but work to introduce a  new international information and communication order should be further intensified  and the principles underlying it clarified, incorporating the aspirations of the Group  of 77 and the non-aligned countries movement, which have hitherto been reflected in  Unesco and in the United Nations Committee on Information and Special Political Com-  mittee. We are all aware of the campaign of slander being waged by the United States  and its allies against Unesco and the new information order. It has been going on  since the 1970s and it is redolent of power politics, abuse of technological superi-  ority and imperialist excesses.
(22.14) Comrade President, I should like next to cornent on a number of matters  directly related to our Organization's existence and activities. Unesco, like many  other international organizations, could increase its efficiency, and Cuba supports  any initiative aimed at achieving that end. However, we are disturbed by the inclin-  ation of some countries to disregard the rest of humankind, and in particular the  Third World, in their efforts to safeguard their own special interests. We should  therefore like to draw attention to attempts to set in motion a gradual reform process  operating as a chain reaction in the Organization, the underlying purpose of which one  senses as being the elimination or drastic curtailment of selected aspects of Unesco's  irreproachably democratic operating procedures.
(22.15) While on the one hand we support the desire for censensus, and are willing to  do everything in our power to foster exchanges of views and negotiations conducive to  consensus, we cannot accept - and we intend to oppose - any distortion of its objec-  tives and significance which would use it to impose the criteria of the minority. We  cannot allow consensus to be turned into a tool of imperialism designed to obstruct  the working of the democratic majority system.
(22.16) We cannot support criteria that in practice undermine the authority of  Unesco's governing bodies and the role played by the Secretariat and the Director-  General, since their application would impair the sovereignty and run counter to the  interests of the majority. Neither can we support the proposal that draft resolutions  be submitted to extraneous manipulation limiting the right of Member States to put  forward their opinions and proposals as they see fit.
(22.17) These dangers are more serious and the proposals engendering them more  sinister than meets the eye. In this context, we must denounce the attitude shown by  the United States Government in its withdrawal from Unesco, echoing its withdrawal on  a previous occasion from ILO, and in its threats to withdraw from other international  Organizations. This is neither more nor less than an attempt to use pressure and  blackmail to further its own interests at the expense not only of the Organization,  which it has sought to humilitate and subjugate, but of the multilateral system that  it is unable to manipulate. Imperialism would have the United Nations act in accord-  ance with its own wishes and international relations conform to its dictates. It would  have multilateralism serve its own interests rather than promote co-operation among  the world's peoples and their progress and development.
(22.18) The situation I have just outlined is aggravated by provocations that are a  threat to peace. There can be no education, no science, no culture and no communi-  cation without peace, and we must therefore join forces in our efforts to ensure that  Unesco is able to accomplish the lofty tasks for which it was established.
(22.19) Our impoverished countries of the Third World cannot enjoy the fruits of a  scientific and technological revolution in the conditions of economic dependence and  injustice imposed by the existing international economic order, especially when they  also have to contend with threats of war which, if they were to become a reality,  would put an end to all educational, scientific and cultural development and indeed to  human life itself. The defeat of Fascism and the consequent clearing of the way for  the creation of the United Nations were events of enormous significance for inter-  national peace and security. Our Organization, which will shortly also be celebrating  the fortieth anniversary of its foundation, likewise sprang from the aspiration of  humankind to preserve peace and co-operation among peoples.
(22.20) Unesco's contribution to the struggle for peace must continue, gather  strength and promote an ever wider and deeper realization of the fact that the un-  leashing of nuclear war implies using scientific development for the destruction of  humankind in the knowledge that not only the human race but all the works created by  the human mind would be wiped off the face of the earth.
(22.21) We who are meeting here, as government representatives and human beings, to  promote education, science, culture and communication and hence also humankind and its  dignity, have a responsibility to our consciences and to our peoples to work for their  survival and happiness - and the great aspirations of humankind can only be attained  through peace and the struggle for peace. Thank you.
23. Le PRESIDENT :  M. Daniel Abibi, ministre de l'enseignement secondaire et supérieur et chef de la  délégation du Congo, à prendre la parole.
24.1 M. ABIBI (Congo) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et  Messieurs les délégués 5 la vingt-troisième session de la Conférence générale de  l'Unesco, au nom de la délégation de mon pays, la République populaire du Congo,  et en mon nom propre, je voudrais tout d'abord saisir l'occasion qui m'est ainsi  donnée, pour adresser mes vives félicitations au Président de l'actuelle session  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Cuba et j'invite S. Exc.
191    de notre Conférence générale et à tous ses pairs, pour leur brillante élection.  Nous sommes convaincus, Monsieur le Président, que sous votre clairvoyante  direction, les travaux de la vingt-troisième session de la Conférence générale se  dérouleront avec succès, dans l'intérêt bien compris de l'organisation et des  pays et peuples :qui fondent des espoirs légitimes dans l'action combien déter-  minante de l'Unesco dans les divers domaines de sa compétence.
24.2 Je voudrais ensuite exprimer mes sentiments de sincère reconnaissance  envers le peuple ami bulgare, ayant à sa tête le respecté Président du Conseil  d'Etat de la République populaire de Bulgarie, le camarade Todor Jivkov, pour  l'accueil cordial et chaleureux qui a été réservé à tous les participants à cette  vingt-troisième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco. Le peuple congo-  lais qui a une longue tradition de résistance opiniâtre à l'oppression, et qui  consacre toutes ses forces à la construction d'une société nouvelle débarrassée  de toute exploitation de l'homme par l'homme, porte une profonde admiration à  l'endroit du peuple bulgare qui a su, malgré les avatars d'une histoire treize  fois séculaire, préserver l'unité de sa patrie en restant fidèle à la glorieuse  devise de ses aïeux "La liberté ou la mort".
24.3 Parce qu'il lutte, sous la direction du Président Denis Sassou-Nguesso,  pour un monde de justice, de liberté et de dignité, parce que la politique  extérieure de son Parti tend à la consolidation de la paix et au renforcement des  relations d'amitié avec les Etats du monde, le peuple congolais qui aime la paix,  salue par ma voix ce magnifique fleuron du patrimoine culturel de Sofia qu'est le  monument du "Drapeau de la paix'' inauguré en présence du Directeur général de  l'Unesco dans cette belle capitale en 1979, et dédié à tous les enfants du monde  sous le triple symbole de l'unité, de la création et de la beauté.
24.4 En cette année internationale de la jeunesse, les cloches de ce monument  doivent continuer à interpeller la conscience internationale à un moment où la  paix paraît plus que jamais menacée par un redoublement de bellicisme de la part  de certaines puissances qui se livrent à des expériences infiniment coûteuses ;  on aimerait dire à ces puissances, pour paraphraser un écrivain français,  qu'elles entretiennent "l'illusion d'un être qui a conscience de lui-même comme  cause et n'a pas conscience de lui-même comme effet". Comment pouvons-nous, au  seuil du troisième millénaire, ne pas saluer avec enthousiasme le prodigieux  héritage culturel, scientifique et technologique que notre XXe siècle doit à la  plus grande concentration de savants jamais observée dans l'histoire de  l'humanité ?
24.5 Mais comment, dans le même temps, 'ignorer qu'un certain surdéveloppement  matériel s'accompagne d'un sous-développement moral qui expose notre planète à  l'anéantissement, si nous ne prenons pas conscience d'une chose : avec tant de  pouvoirs accumulés entre ses mains, l'homme se tient désormais sur une crête et  il peut basculer, soit vers un avenir radieux, soit dans le gouffre de l'holo-  causte nucléaire.
24.6 Pour conjurer de si redoutables périls, des hommes se sont levés un  jour, qui ont dit que l'esprit, et non plus l'épée, devait devenir l'axe du monde  nouveau et nourrir les rêves de paix de l'humanité. Grâce à ces hommes, l'Unesco  est née en 1945 et les colonnes de son temple, formées par l'éducation, la  science, la culture et la communicatïon, nous rappellent que sa mission est  essentiellement éthique. Mais un tel idéal a besoin de se cristalliser dans des  actions matérielles qui concourent à l'édification d'un monde soucieux de créer  les conditions d'une meilleure compréhension entre des hommes éclairés par  l'éducation et la science, un monde qui ne sera plus hérissé de barrières telles  que les préjugés, le racisme et l'apartheid qui en est le sous-produit le plus  répugnant dans ce siècle finissant.
24,. 7 La délégation que je conduis n'a garde d'oublier, à ce propos, que cette  vingt-troisième session de notre Conférence générale tient ses assises au moment  où les tensions ne font que s'accroître dans le monde. Le conflit du Moyen-Orient  s'est brusquement étendu à la zone du Maghreb, tandis qu'au sud du continent  africain, la répression la plus barbare n'a cessé, depuis le début de cette  année, de s'abattre sur la majorité noire en une succession de "Sharpeville" qui  se multiplient au pays de Nelson Mandela, l'indomptable combattant de la liberté.
24.8 Je disais tout à l'heure que si l'Unesco s@ caractérise par les rêves et  les idéaux les plus nobles qui soient, il s'agit de les matérialiser par des  actions i nous retrouvons précisément celles-ci dans les riches documents qui  nous ont été proposés pour cette session, documents dont la qualité témoigne du  travail remarquable que l'Unesco poursuit, et auquel son Directeur général,  M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, a su imprimer son cachet et sa sensibilité personnels. Le
26 septembre 1983, à l'occasion de la visite officielle effectuée au Siège de  notre Organisation par le Chef de 1'Etat congolais, le premier dirigeant de mon  pays a su dire publiquement, lors de la 117e session du Conseil exécutif, quelle
192    haute appréciation il avait de l'action menée par cette Organisation qui reste la  conscience intellectuelle de notre monde dont elle épouse les inquiétudes, les  espoirs et les aspirations légitimes, au point de s'attirer le reproche injus-  tifié de "politiser" son rôle !
24.9 Après le Président Denis Sassou-Nguesso, je ne puis que renouveler avec  plaisir cette marque de grande estime à l'endroit du Directeur général de  l'Unesco et dire combien ma délégation apprécie hautement les grandes réformes  qu'il a amorcées pour donner plus d'efficacité à l'action de notre Organisation,  au moment même où une campagne de dénigrement excessive est dirigée contre sa  personne. Pour notre part, nous ne nous faisons aucune illusion : toute cette  campagne est en fait dirigée contre la coopération multinationale dont l'Unesco  constitue l'un des bastions les plus solides au sein du système des Nations  Unies, car l'action du Directeur général est restée conforme aux recommandations  de la Conférence générale, aux orientations du Conseil exécutif et à l'esprit de  l'Acte constitutif de l'Unesco.
24.10 Monsieur le Président, sans doute, la crédibilité de notre Organisation  se mesure moins à l'affirmation de ses nobles principes qu'à la concrétisation de  ses idéaux dans les domaines précis de sa compétence. Sur ce plan, il est vrai  que les moyens de l'Unesco, sensiblement réduits, vont compromettre certaines de  ses interventions sur le terrain. Mais heureusement, au sein de notre Organisa-  tion, un sursaut a été enregistré de la part de plusieurs Etats membres qui ne  sont pas restés sourds aux appels lancés par le Directeur général. Pour cette  raison, mon pays a, d'une part, accepté, en dépit de la conjoncture économique  difficile qu'il traverse, de s'associer à une décision recommandant à notre  administration de préparer l'estimation prévisionnelle des moyens d'action de  l'Unesco sur une base dont je m'abstiens de rappeler ici la hauteur et, d'autre  part, décidé d'abandonner à notre Organisation la plus value provenant des  excédents accumulés au titre VI11 du Budget pour l'exercice 1981-1983 du fait de  la hausse du dollar.
24.11 Ma délégation est consciente du fait que la Conférence générale pourrait  envisager de procéder à un certain nombre d'économies. Je voudrais indiquer à ce  propos que des besoins toujours croissants en matière d'éducation et de recherche  scientifique impriment aux programmes qui s'y rapportent un caractère priori-  taire. Une concentration excessive de ces programmes porterait gravement atteinte  au mouvement général de progrès engagé notamment dans nos pays en développement.  C'est pourquoi ma délégation estime que notre instance doit tout mettre en oeuvre  pour tenter de sauver l'essentiel, et réaffirme son attachement aux grands  programmes I, II, III, IV, VIII, XII et XIII.
24.12 Dans ces conditions, seule la volonté de rechercher le compromis et le  consensus conformément à l'appel lancé par le Directeur général incline la  délégation de la République populaire du Congo à accepter qu'un certain nombre de  questions essentielles relevant de ces programmes soient considérées en seconde  priorité.
24.13 Monsieur le Président, lorsque le Conseil exécutif de l'Unesco l'avait  reçu à sa 117e session à Paris, le Président de la République populaire du Congo,  le camarade Denis Sassou-Nguesso avait indiqué avec force détails, les efforts  que réalise notre pays pour se doter d'un système éducatif nouveau, répondant aux  aspirations du peuple congolais. Je ne reviendrai pas sur ces détails. Je  voudrais simplement souligner que pour le Parti congolais du travail et le  gouvernement congolais , assurer à notre peuple une éducation démocratique et de  qualité est un de nos défis majeurs. La République populaire du Congo considère  en effet qu'il n'est pas possible d'assurer un développement significatif ,  d'ouvrir des perspectives prometteuses pour notre peuple, de conquérir et de  dominer la nature , ainsi que d' engager résolument le progrès scientifique sans  donner à l'éducation toute l'importance voulue, la lutte pour l'égalité devant la  connaissance et le savoir étant l'un des moyens les plus appropriés pour s'atta-  quer avec des chances de succès aux autres inégalités sociales. Nous sommes  heureux de constater que cette vision des choses rejoint les préoccupations  fondamentales de l'Unesco dans son action continue dans le domaine de l'éducation  en direction de nos pays en développement.
24.14 Après l'immense effort que mon pays a entrepris depuis vingt ans et qui  a permis de mener pour l'essentiel le processus de démocratisation à son terme,  aujourd'hui se pose de façon pressante la question du relèvement significatif du  niveau qualitatif de notre école, ce qui constitue à nos yeux le facteur décisif  pour garantir la démocratisation. Depuis le dernier congrès de notre Parti en  juillet 1984, notre action en matière d'éducation vise non seulement la conso-  lidation de l'oeuvre déjà accomplie, mais également la mise en application de  mesures visant à concilier sans délai la démocratisation quantitative de notre  école avec une amélioration sensible des conditions de travail, avec un accrois-  sement de la compétence des enseignants, avec une amélioration des rendements au
193    niveau des élèves et étudiants, avec une accentuation résolue de l'éducation  scientifique; technologique et artistique pour des produits scolaires et cultu-  rels satisfaisants sur le plan de la quantité et de très bonne qualité, en vue de  la construction d'un pays prospère, souverain et beau.
24.15 Pour la 'mise en oeuvre d'une telle stratégie, il importe de savoir  utiliser au maximum et au mieux les ressources propres de notre pays, de savoir  exploiter à bon escient les mille et une ingéniosités dont peut être capable  notre peuple, tout en comptant sur le concours des organisations comme l'Unesco.  En effet, l'inestimable contribution que l'Unesco apporte à la résolution des  problèmes du développement culturel et scientifique de nos Etats en général, et  de mon pays en particulier, constitue assurément à cet égard un levain dans nos  programmes nationaux, et un levier sûr pour affronter les défis gui se profilent  au seuil du troisième millénaire.
24.16 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, distingués délé-  gués des Etats membres, alors que l'horizon de notre Organisation s'est bruta-  lement assombri avec la crise provoquee par les décisions prises en toute  indépendance par des Etats membres dont nous respectons la volonté et la  souveraineté, tout en réaffirmant notre foi inébranlable en la coopération  multilatérale pour que soit développée la compréhension internationale et assurée  la promotion de la paix dans le monde, nous n'avons jamais douté un seul instant  de l'avenir de l'organisation. I1 y a eu tant et tant d'actions importantes et  méritoires que nos Etats ont conduites ensemble pour sauvegarder la mémoire du  monde, préserver son patrimoine le plus précieux et contribuer au rapprochement  des hommes, qu'une entreprise aussi grandiose saura à coup sûr traverser et  surmonter n'importe quelle épreuve. Telle est notre profonde conviction.
25. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Congo et j'invite S. Exc.  M. Mohamed Frej Chedli, ministre de l'éducation nationale et chef de la délé-  gation de la Tunisie, à prendre la parole.
(26.1) Mr CHEDLI (Tunisia) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr President, I should like to begin by offering you my heartiest congratu-  lations on your election as President of the General Conference of Unesco at its  twenty-third session, which is being held in the city of Sofia, that lovely city  steeped in history, with its glorious cultural heritage. I am confident that your  extraordinary competence and admirable abilities will enable you to manage these pro-  ceedings to such good effect that the Conference is sure to be fully successful in its  work.
(26.2) At the same time, I should like to extend to your predecessor, Dr Said Tell,  our heartfelt thanks and the assurance of our complete satisfaction at the tireless  efforts that he has consistently made in the service of the Organization throughout  his term of office as President of the General Conference. In addition, I extend to  the Chairman of the Executive Board and the other members of the Board my thanks and  appreciation for the great assistance they have provided in helping the Director-  General to execute the Organization's programmes in the best possible conditions. And  I should also like to assure the Director-General and his colleagues of the Sec-  retariat of our keen appreciation for their efforts in executing the programmes and  projects approved at the last session of the General Conference, and our high regard  for the care they have lavished on the preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget  which has been submitted to us as document 23 C/S relating to the 1986-1987 biennium,  accompanied by the detailed report on the Organization's activities during the period  that is now ending.
(26.3) Lastly, Mr President, I should like to express our thanks and appreciation to  the Government and people of Bulgaria for the warm welcome and the generous hospi-  tality that we have enjoyed in this lovely country of theirs. And now, if I may, I  should like to share with the General Conference of our Organization some thoughts and  observations about the Draft Programme and Budget and the proposed programme of work  for the 1986-1987 biennium which we have before us. My remarks will be of a general  nature; the members of the Tunisian Delegation will discuss these matters in greater  detail with their colleagues from other countries within the various Commissions.
(26.4) First of all, I must commend the excellent work of the Director-General and  his colleagues of the Secretariat in preparing the document we have before UR, the  draft programme and budget, which, may I note in passing, is entirely consistent with  the Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989.
(26.5) While document 23 C/5 is rationally structured by major programmes, pro-  grammes and subprogrammes, we note with satisfaction an important innovation in the  presentation, and that is that the proposed actions are indicated in summary form in  Volume II of the document. We can only approve of the format selected for presentation  of the programmes; for example, the decision to eliminate the extended introductions,  and the concern for greater clarity in the proposed actions and the means of imple-  menting them. The introduction of alternative options is also of interest, as is the  inclusion of cost estimates for each subprograme. Furthermore, the proposed actions  have been distributed among three categories in accordance with considerations and  constraints arising from the need to strive for greater effectiveness and the avail-  ability of financial resources in each particular case, taking into account the cir-  cumstances with which we are all familiar, or which may occur in future.
(26.6) It is, in our view, particularly admirable that the proposed programmes con-  centrate to a greater extent than has been the case hitherto on the strengthening of  training activities and the provision of direct support for Member States that are in  need of such activities, through contributions from the Organization for the purpose  of strengthening the work of various national bodies, or through assistance aimed at  implementing model pilot projects or fostering exchanges of expertise and information  among States, emphasis being placed throughout on the various fields of science and  technology. In this connection, we are in agreement with all options aimed at achiev-  ing greater effectiveness, and we should like to see the Organization increase its  participation in the work of national programmes, even at the cost of reduced expendi-  ture on meetings and seminars.
(26.7) The most striking aspect of the budget submitted for our consideration, how-  ever, is the 25 per cent reduction in it that has occurred as a result of the with-  drawal of a State from membership of the Organization. This has meant a cut of over  $97 million in constant dollars, and accordingly the proposed programmes have been  distributed on the basis of priorities defined in terms of the financial resources  available. We hope, in this distressing situation, that it will be possible to avoid  falling into irrelevance, with the Organization slipping from one reduction to another  and one cutback to another in its financial resources, and hence in its proposed  activities. If that were to happen its lustre would wane, and its very existence would  be jeopardized.
(26.8) Ladies and gentlemen, the responsibility that we as States bear is a heavy  one, inasmuch as it is bound up with the future of Unesco as an organization, and with  its noble mission of disseminating education, science and culture in a spirit of soli-  darity, co-operation and fraternity among all humanity. We are in duty bound to do our  utmost to ensure that this Organization has at its disposal the financial resources it  needs in order to come through this distressing crisis and continue to carry out its  mission, executing the programmes and projects that have been agreed upon in accord-  ance with the priorities and choices determined by the considerations of sound manage-  ment. In addition, it is essential to retain that universality which is a feature of  the very nature of Unesco.
(26.9) After these general remarks, Mr President, I should like to proceed to a  brief review of some of the aspects of a number of the major programmes, which in our  view are entirely in accordance with the mission of the Organization, and hence we  feel that we can support them and lend our assistance for their implementation. To  begin with, we support Major Programme I, 'Reflection on world problems and future-  oriented studies', which Unesco proposes to carry out with a view to achieving greater  realism and effectiveness in its projects and shedding light on appropriate means of  dealing with problems.
(26.10) With respect to Major Programmes II, IV and V, all of which are concerned  with education, their titles are enough in themselves to reveal their importance:  'Education for all', 'The formulation and application of education policies', and  'Education, training and society'. We support these major programmes unreservedly,  inasmuch as they are highly relevant to our own fundamental concerns, and we are in  agreement with all the activities proposed in connection with them. Indeed, we wish  the Organization had more resources and means at its disposal for the strengthening  and expansion of these programmes.
(26.11) Concerning Major Programme III, which is concerned with the issues of infor-  mation and communication in the service of man, we feel that it corresponds to our  aspirations with respect to achieving greater justice and balance among all peoples,  especially as between the industrialized and the developing nations. Tunisia has  expressed its support for this approach ever since the Nairobi Conference. In partic-  ular, we stand squarely behind the International Programme for the Development of Com-  munication, and we are pleased to report that we and Unesco have co-operated most  satisfactorily in the field of the training of journalists. We also support the pro-  posed activities relating to the promotion of books and reading and the use of up-to-  date technologies in publishing.
(26.12) I must note that we attach particular importance to Major Programmes VI, IX  and X ('The sciences and their application to development', 'Science, technology and  society', and 'The human environment and terrestrial and marine resources'). We do not  hesitate to say, ladies and gentlemen, that these major programmes are directly rele-  vant to the fundamental problems affecting the peoples of the world, especially the  peoples of the developing countries, which need to keep up with scientific and techno-  logical progress in order to escape from their backwardness and must acquire the means  of ensuring their own advancement by absorbing scientific knowledge and mastering  sophisticated technology. In this connection, we should like to say how impressed we  are at seeing the Organization planning to execute the activities proposed under these  programmes with the greatest possible degree of decentralization, endeavouring to help  its Member States undertake research corresponding to their needs, providing support
199    for their infrastructures, and promoting the training of their scientific specialists  and technicians. We heartily support these major programmes and endorse the activities  which it is proposed to undertake in connection with them.
(26.13) fiajor Programme VIII, 'Principles, methods and strategies of action for  development', is characterized by clarity of presentation, consistency in its proposed  activities, and well-defined priorities. In view of these attributes, it merits our  approval and support. In addition, it affords Member States an opportunity for dia-  logue and exchanges of views and experience, and an occasion to strengthen the links  of co-operation and solidarity between them in the context of the Organization. It is  to be hoped that Unesco will have adequate resources at its disposal to execute this  major programme, so that it can continue to play its important role in this area.
(26.14) Major Programme XI, 'Culture and the future', is related to the previous  major programme. Major Programme XI constitutes one of the fundamental aspects of  Unesco's work, for everyone is well aware nowadays of the effective role played by  cultural development in furthering economic and social development. Culture is now  more than a mere matter of interest in the arts and the monuments of the heritage of  mankind. Unesco's important work in this field is well known, as are its initiatives  aimed at strengthening international solidarity. Accordingly, we unhesitatingly and  unreservedly support this major programme.
(26.15) With your permission, 1: should now like to consider briefly Major Pro-  grammes XII and XIII. The former is concerned with the elimination of prejudice,  intolerance, racism and apartheid, while the latter has to do with peace, inter-  national understanding, human rights and the rights of peoples. All these issues,  ladies and gentlemen, constitute the fundamental basis and natural starting-point of  any action aimed at achieving progress in the interests of all mankind and protecting  mankind from the terrible scourges that threaten its very existence. We do not believe  that there is anyone who can deny the pressing need to consolidate peace and the  spirit of mutual understanding and solidarity, resist racial discrimination in all its  forms, and counter the policies of domination, repression and expulsion of peoples  practised by the racist regime in South Africa and by Zionism in occupied Palestine.  How can these objectives be attained save through programmes aimed at developing edu-  cation and culture? Accordingly, we support the proposed activities described under  these two major programmes, even though their execution will require some determin-  ation of priorities and it will be necessary to make some choices in accordance with  the resources available. Incidentally, we note with satisfaction that in the prepar-  ation of document 23 C/5, the recommendations of the Temporary Committee of the Exec-  utive Board on these issues have been t,aken into account. This will help to reduce  differences of outlook and prepare the way for concerted action that is even more  effective than has been the case in the past.
(26.16) I now come to the last major programme, Major Programme XIV on the status of  women. I may sap at once that we unhesitatingly and unreservedly support this major  programme and the activities that are proposed for its implementation, including  greater participation by women in the various activities of Unesco and all the  initiatives aimed at improving the position of women in social life. We should like to  make particular mention of the proposed activities and projects that are designed to  enable girls and women to take more effective advantage of education, beginning at the  level of literacy training. Needless to say, opportunities for women to go in for  scientific and technological fields of specialization, in addition to studies in the  human and social sciences, are another aspect of the same issue. Tunisia supports this  approach and hopes that it will come to enjoy greater attention and support, so that  women can acquire the skills demanded by comprehensive development and can assume  their human function in society in the best possible conditions. In taking this  position on this issue, we may note that we in Tunisia fit the action to the word: for  years and years now we have been working to enable Tunisian women to enjoy the  benefits of education on a footing of equality with men, at all levels and in all  fields. As a result, we find today that Tunisian women participate with and co-operate  with their male counterparts on a basis for equality in discharging functions,  assuming responsibilities and providing services, in both the public and the private  sectors, in all fields of political, social and economic life. Herein lies the secret  of the true meaning of the liberation of women, and the means of paving the way for  women to achieve that genuine maturity which enables them to fulfil their function in  achieving the progress and advancement to which they aspire.
(26.17) Now I should like to address some considerations relating to the general pro-  posed activities contained in the programme, all of which, diversified though they  are, are designed to serve education, science and culture. Among these activities is  assistance to Member States in preparing national legislation and infrastructures in  the field of intellectual creation and respect for copyright. There can be no doubt  that this would stimulate creative and talented people. In addition, Unesco should  attach great importance to the strengthening of co-operation with its National Com-  missions and Regional Offices, and should endeavour to renew these outposts as  required and provide them with adequate assistance and support.
(26.18) With respect to the Organization itself, we approve of the strengthening of  the information effort required to make Unesco's endeavours, activities, achievements  and initiatives in all parts of the world better known. Working patiently in silence  is all very well, but justice as well as a desire for effectiveness make it necessary  to spread awareness of what the Organization is doing and the impact it is having  throughout the entire world. Moreover, with a view to attaining a greater degree of  rationalization and in order to shield the Organization from tendentious rumours, we  support the reorganization of the Bureau of Personnel and the establishment of a  Central Evaluation Unit to evaluate the work of the Organization and the procedures  followed in the implementation of its projects and programmes.
(26.19) In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that  we hold this great Organization of ours in high regard and are fully prepared to co-  operate with it. We are confident that it will continue to provide invaluable services  to all countries of the world, including the developing countries, and in particular  those among them that are suffering hardships as a result of climatic factors and  natural disasters, such as successive years of drought, hunger, desertification,  pollution, and the like. The Organization provides all the assistance in its power in  these conditions, in addition to helping the countries concerned in the areas of edu-  cation, culture, science and technology, and making its services and expertise avail-  able to them for the purpose of enabling them to turn their natural resources to  account, all through operational programmes and integrated projects. In view of all  this, we continue to be optimistic about the future, and we join our voices and  efforts to those of all others who wish the Organization well and strive to preserve  and strengthen it and provide it with the means of action it requires, knowing as we  do that it has acquired an impressive fund of knowledge and experience about edu-  cation, science and culture in the entire world in the course of its 40 years of  existence.
(26.20) However, this optimism - from which we shall never deviate, in the interests  of humanity as a whole - does not cause us to forget a continuing source of grief and  pain and a continuing cause of condemnation, namely the policy of State-sponsored  terrorism, repression and domination, racial discrimination, mass expulsion, deliber-  ate murder and the vilest forms of aggression that continues to be practised, before  the eyes of the entire world, by the racist South African regime and the racist Zion-  ist entity in occupied Palestine. The most recent example of these criminal practices  was the barbarous attack by the Israeli air force against the territory of the Repub-  lic of Tunisia a few days ago, causing numerous victims including Tunisian civilians  and Palestinian refugees who had been expelled from their stolen homeland.
(26.21) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here under the auspices of this Organiz-  ation devoted to peace, before this assembly distinguished by the fact that it invites  us all to unite our efforts to an ever-increasing extent in order to ensure the  security of all the cultures in the entire world, I wish I could look to the future  with unclouded optimism and end my remarks on a hopeful note. But how can I, and how  can I forget that cultural discrimination is still in full force and effect? How can I  speak of hope when the leading symbol of cultural symbiosis, the outstanding example  of peaceful coexistence among the Mediterranean cultures, I mean Jerusalem, the city  of peace, continues to suffer persecution, repression and disfigurement? Unesco -  which is to say the international community - has described the city of Jerusalem as  constituting an integrated whole, the balance and specific character of which depend  on the synthesis of its constituent elements: I take this view from the report pre-  pared by the experts of ICOMOS that was adopted by the World Heritage Committee. But  the city of Jerusalem is still endangered, as its ruthless occupant endeavours by  every means to destroy the city's harmony, disrupt the homogeneity of its urban fabric  and wipe out its distinctive characteristics that are the fruit of thousands of years  of history, despite numerous recommendations and repeated resolutions calling upon the  occupying Power to respect Arab cultural properties belonging to the Christian and the  Islamic heritages. The addition of the city of Jerusalem to the World Heritage List,  and more particularly the List of World Heritage in Danger, led 11s to suppose that  there would be a return to reason and respect for international law. We began to hope,  many of us, that pending a political settlement that would put an end to the occu-  pation, that there would be a truce in the cultural strife. We were hoping that the  dignity of the Arab inhabitants would be preserved on the basis of respect for human  rights, and that the city's Arab cultural monuments would retain those splendid  characteristics that make them part of the world's cultural heritage. Alas, all the  resources of tyranny and oppression, including the force of arms, continue to be used  daily in the ongoing effort to blot out and obliterate the Arab cultural heritage and  its ancient monuments. We must recognize that the time has come when reminders and  appeals are no longer appropriate. The list of criminal actions undertaken by the  occupying Power against the integrity and authenticity of the holy city is a long one.  Unless we fully realize the gravity of the situation, our resolutions will remain a  dead letter, despite the seriousness and heat of our discussions. Mr President, ladies  and gentlemen, if the fate of the holy city of Jerusalem is truly of concern to us,  and if we wish to give our consensus a positive and dynamic content, the issue of the  preservation of the universal cultural heritage of the city of Jerusalem must be the
201    focus of our concern, in every part of Unesco. I am confident that if we resolutely  adopt this line we shall, in the end, succeed in loosening the stranglehold of the  occupiers, dispel the nightmare of their oppression and lighten, however slightly, the  burden of.the population. I make this point in order to end on a note of hope, despite  everything, for life would be bleak. indeed without hope. i thank you for your kind  attention.
27. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Tunisie et j 'invite S. Exc.  M. Mohamed Najib Al Sayed Ahmed, ministre de l'éducation et chef de la délégation  de de la République arabe syrienne, à lui succéder.
(28.1) Mr AL SAYEE AHMED (Syrian Arab Republic) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,  Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure to address you  today on behalf of the Delegation of the Syrian Arab Republic on the occasion of the  holding of the twenty-third session of the General Conference of Unesco. It is our  hope that this Conference will be a great success, and that the role of the Organiz-  ation will be strengthened, for then humanity as a whole will benefit. It is a further  source of satisfaction to me that we are holding this Conference here in Sofia, the  city of wisdom, capital of the friendly People's Republic of Bulgaria, the host  country, to which we are bound by the ties of friendship, fruitful co-operation and a  shared faith in lofty human values and ideals. This Conference is of particular  importance because Chairman Zhivkov attended the ceremony that opened its working  meetings and delivered a valuable address. It is my very great pleasure to extend our  thanks and appreciation to the Chairman and to the Government and the people of the  People's Republic of Bulgaria for the care and attention they have lavished on this  Conference, thereby affording it every chance of success. This Conference, of course,  is distinguished by the fact that it is being held on the occasion of the fortieth  anniversary of the founding of Unesco, which since its inception has tirelessly  striven to serve its lofty principles and to attain its great objectives. It has  achieved much in the course of this career, and simultaneously it has developed and  matured, and it has unstintingly worked to improve its methods of action and develop  its strategies in order to fulfil the tasks for which it was founded. It has lived and  it will continue to live, thanks to the will of our several peoples and States, as a  shining beacon and the valid expression of our consciences and aspirations. In  addition, I am pleased to offer my sincere congratulations to Mr Nikolai Todorov for  the confidence he has merited in being elected President of this Conference. We do not  doubt that he will direct its work with discernment and wisdom, thanks to the breadth  of experience, good judgement and umearying determination for which he is so well  known, and that under his leadership we shall attain those noble objectives to which  we all aspire.
(28.2) Mr President, among the torrent of events that have occurred in rapid  succession and the series of tempestuous storms that have battered the Organization in  the course of the past two years, there has been a deliberate, unjustifiable attack  that has been conducted by various means for ends that are now clear to all of us. The  object of that assault is, among other things, to paralyse and weaken the Organiz-  ation, to hamstring it, and ultimately to subjugate it. But the Organization has been  and will remain vital, because the factors that constitute its life and survival rest  on the f i m  foundation of the will of the peoples of the world, which must prevail  against all obstacles. In addition, indeed, above all, Unesco is the conscience and  the active intellect of mankind, and a forum where we proclaim our regard for the  lofty ideals and values of humanity. Over and above these functions, the Organization  is a place where we can engage in constructive dialogue and intellectual co-operation,  as well as a framework for promoting mutual knowledge and understanding between  peoples and bringing them closer together and engaging in a conscious pursuit of  cultural intermingling, in an effort to attain a world where peace and tranquility  reign. It is on the basis of these considerations and principles that we stand by and  support Unesco. Not only do we have high regard for the firm and unfaltering stand  taken by the Organization at this specific time, but we admire the faith and commit-  ment of those who are working sincerely to further its principles and values, under  the leadership of its Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'BOW. He has demonstrated  courage and good judgement in confronting the machinations of those who have sought by  every possible means to turn back the wheel of history: forgetting, or pretending to  forget, that the wheel of history cannot be turned back. And we are resolutely opposed  to those who would seek to impose a policy of hegemony and zones of influence; this is  something that our peoples will not accept, but rather will categorically reject.
(28.3) Mr President, the two-volume Draft Programme and Budget for 1986-1987 com-  mands our interest and approval as regards not only its general framework but also its  objectives and priorities, to say nothing of the methods used in its preparation and  the innovations that have been introduced in it, inasmuch as these are the product of  the views of the Member States, and have been adopted in response to the directions of  the Executive Board and its Commissions and Committees. They are also the result of  patient and exhaustive studies carried out with the participation of a variety of  experts from many countries, and the fruit of the common determination of our several  States to reach fundamental and constructive solutions. We are also fully committed  to, and have complete confidence in, the second Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989, which  was adopted by our General Conference at its fourth extraordinary session, despite the  attempts that were made to bring pressure to bear on the Organization and its govern-  ing bodies and the accompanying efforts at factual distortion, all of which have now  gone with the wind. The structure of the Organization's programme is derived from the  several major programmes and subprogrammes, while its activities are based on the pro-  visions of the Medium-Term Plan: the proposals set forth in document 23 Cl5 have been  prepared in the light of the activity strategy laid down in that Plan, and in the  light of the approved objectives for each programme. At the same time, it has been  possible to supplement and cl.arify the intellectual. framework that the Plan represents  by means of a number .of factors that have served to guide the selection of proposed  activities. Our interest has also been attracted by the major intergovernmental con-  ferences held in recent years, in particular the World Conference on Cultural Policies  held in Mexico City in 1982 and the Intergovernmental Conference on Education for  International Understanding, Co-operation and Peace and Education relating to Human  Rights and Fundamental Freedom, with a View to Developing a Climate of Opinion Favour-  able to the Strengthening of Security and Disarmament held in Paris in September 1983.
(28.4) This has occurred despite the financial crisis besetting Unesco in the wake  of the withdrawal of the United States of America and its repudiation of its inter-  national commitments. The Organization has been able to preserve the 14 major pro-  grammes contained in the second Medium-Term Plan. However, despite the fact that allo-  cations have been increased for some programmes, such as Major Programmes III, IV, VI1  and VIII, we were hoping that other programmes would be strengthened as well, includ-  ing Major Programme I, 'Reflection on world problems and future-oriented studies', and  Major Programme XIII, 'Peace, international understanding, human rights and the rights  of peoples'. For it is through education and culture that we shall be able to con-  struct the defences of peace in the minds of men.
(28.5) Mr President, we welcome all the measures that Unesco has taken in order to  rationalize its work and the appearance of innovative trends in that connection,  notably the establishment and strengthening of an Evaluation Unit. Evaluation is a  fundamental process in determining to what extent we have attained nur objectives,  scientifically exploring planning methods and effectiveness, pinpointing difficulties  and obstacles that may beset the road to the rational implementation of plans and pro-  grammes, and obtaining a clear view of the future. We also note with satisfaction the  steps that have been taken towards decentralization in the implementation of pro-  grammes specific to each region, and also in the implementation of a number of pro-  grammes of an international character that involve more than one region. This is a  means of enlisting local skills in field operations and of developing those skills and  upgrading their competence, thereby benefiting the developing countries. We are confi-  dent that the Programme Commissions of this Conference will succeed in working out  practical means of applying this concept of decentralization, which we need at the  present time.
(28.6) Mr President, we feel at this juncture, more so than at any time in the past,  that it is our duty to encourage the provision of support for this Organization in its  efforts to attain its objectives. For Unesco persists in reflecting, in its work plan,  the apprehension of the peoples of the world at the perils surrounding them in conse-  quence of the monstrous evils of aggression and exploitation, the domination of the  weak by the strong, the spread of poverty, hunger, ignorance and disease among  hundreds of millions of human beings, and the violation of human rights; it also  reflects the aspiration of those peoples to a life of freedom and dignity character-  ized by peace and justice and ruled by security and prosperity, to the exclusion of  injustice, exploitation and aggression, and their constant striving to attain that  end. In so doing, Unesco asserts itself as, in my view, it should do, as an expression  of the world's feeling and an echo of the hopes and aspirations of the world's peoples  to a brighter future. Today, however, we are confronted with facts and realities that  cannot be ignored or overlooked. Tension is growing at many points in different parts  of the world. Our ideals and values are threatened in consequence of the rule of the  madness of force and the law of the jungle. We are also witnessing aggression against  the rights of peoples and individual rights. Today, 40 years after the end of the  Second World War, the voices of peace which began to speak at that time are being  suppressed, and the spectre of war is looming anew. We see peoples being torn from  their roots and expelled from their homes so that they can be replaced by other groups  of peoples whose principles and being are founded on racial and ethnic fanaticism. The  Palestinian Arab people, which has been expelled from its homeland and has been made
29.2  an object of attack with respect to its heritage, its beliefs, its values and indeed  its very existence, is the best evidence of the dominance of the principle of force  and the law of the jungle, as these have been the mainstay of the racist Zionist  entity, buttressed as it has been by the forces of world imperialism led by the United  States, which has not only provided it with weapons and the means of strength and sur-  vival but has also encouraged it in its continuing aggression. That racist entity, for  whose continued presence in this Organization we can see no justification, is the  cause of the tension that subsists in the Near East; for the concept of peace, as far  as it is concerned, means peace based on force and domination, peace that is synony-  mous with expansion and aggression. Could there be clearer proof of this than the  heinous act committed recently by the entity in question in carrying out its criminal  aggression against our sister nation, Tunisia, a sovereign State and a member of the  United Nations and of this Organization, in defiance of international law. Further-  more, that criminal action was nothing new for the racist Zionist entity, which has  occupied Syria's Golan Heights and assaulted our sister nation, Lebanon, and destroyed  its educational and cultural institutions. Nevertheless, we firmly believe that  peoples cannot be crushed. That which is invalid may have its day, but will be swept  away in the end. The Lebanese Arab people's action in tearing up the' treaty of sub-  mission and their heroic resistance on behalf of the freedom and sovereignty of their  homeland constitute unmistakable proof that the will of peoples cannot be crushed, but  must ultimately triumph over all aggression.
(28.7) Mr President, we believe in peace and will strive on its behalf; but by peace  we mean the peace that is founded on justice, a comprehensive peace that guarantees  the rights of peoples to the possession of their homelands and to self-determination.  We shall continue to support those rights and to struggle on their behalf with all the  means at our disposal, and we shall support liberation movements throughout the world,  rejecting all policies of racism, racial discrimination and apartheid. We stand  shoulder to shoulder with the people of South Africa in their struggle against racist  rule in that country, convinced as we are that all racist regimes must ultimately  fall, inasmuch as they are transitory phenomena that are incompatible with the logic  of life and history. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we emphasize the import-  ance of this session in the life of our Organization, we are saying that we hope the  spirit of wisdom and constructive dialogue will prevail in the discussions that take  place at it, we are saying that we hope we will achieve fruitful results that will  strengthen this Organization and further its noble objectives, so that it will con-  tinue and further develop in the service of the progress and flourishing advancement  of the world in conditions of security, justice and peace. Before I conclude my  remarko, I should like to extend my thanks and appreciation to all those who have con-  tributed to the preparation of the documents of this Conference, particularly the  Director-General and his colleagues, the Chairman and members of the Executive Board  and its subsidiary bodies, and the Secretariat. By their work they have facilitated  our task of achieving fruitful and beneficial results. Lastly, I thank you all, and I  wish this Conference all success.  Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la République arabe syrienne.  La séance est levée.  The meeting rose at 7.20 p.m.  La séance est levée à 19 h.20  Se levanta la sesión a las 19.20  Sacena~ue saspmaeTca B 19.20  G L  y3y. LLJI 4 "L&JI r=pj3  &aW?19H2 03$-&J/f