Twenty-eighth plenary meeting
24 October 1985 at 3.10 p.m.  President: Mr TODOROV (Bulgaria)  Vingt-huitième séance plénière
989    DEBATE ON THE QUESTIONS RAISED IN PARAGRAPHS 2, 3 AND 4 OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD'S  DECISION CONTAINED IN DOCUMENT 23 C/93 (continued)  DEBAT SUR LES QUESTIONS SOULEVEES DANS LES PARAGRAPHES 2, 3 et 4  DE LA DECISION DU CONSEIL EXECUTIF REPRODUITE DANS LE DOCUMENT 23 C/93 (suite)  DEBATE SOBRE 'LAS CUESTIONES PLANTEADAS EN LOS PARRAFOS 2, 3 Y 4 DE LA DECISION  DEL CONSEJO EJECUTIVO REPRODUCICA EN EL DOCUMENTO 23 C/93 (continuación)  IIPEHMR iT0 BOiTPOCAM, OTHOCRUHMCR K IiYHICTAM 2, 3 H 4 PEiüEHMR  MCIiOJlHMTEJIbHOI'O COBETA, ITPUBEnEHHOrO B ROKYMEHTE 23 C/93 (np0nOn)KeHHe)  qy/p)y '-91 4 .3JsJi ~'\.;~'.':ll &I >i) 3p Z J  y 3  y Gl_peii 4 'LJJdI &U1 0- 'WL  (¿?LI  %?*i423 c193J%&#h,fi%EJrk-X%2. 3. ~BJ%-E&I%/FJF~~%I%-~~ (@ 1
1. Le PRESIDENT :  parole.
(2.1) Mr VILLORO TORANZO (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, since you have a long list of speakers and time is very short,  I shall try to be as brief as possible. As regards the problem of observers I should  like to say first of all that, since there are no specific provisions for observer  status, it would be desirable, as the representatives of Venezuela and Senegal have  already suggested to refer to the 'position' of observer and avoid the word 'status'.
(2.2) Secondly, I should like to make a few brief remarks on paragraph 8 of docu-  ment 23 C/LEG/5, submitted to us by the Legal Committee. The distinguished delegate of  Canada, speaking on paragraph 8 (a) was quite right to point out that the words 'to  protect the interests of the Organization', might give the impression that the Organ-  ization felt in some way threatened by the possible conduct of an observer State.  Since it is quite obvious that there is no need for the Organization to protect its  interests in relation to an observer State, the term 'bearing in mind' might be used  instead of 'to protect'. I also agree that in paragraph 8 (b) the sentence 'consider-  ation of the advisability of granting facilities to a permanent observer mission  should be based on the fact of a State's endeavouring to promote co-operation with the  Organization' should be replaced by a sentence to the effect that such facilities  should be based on that State's manifest will or the willingness it has shown to pro-  mote co-operation with the Organization. If we retain the words 'the fact of a State's  endeavouring', we are setting ourselves up in judgement on that State's attitude. I do  not think we have the right to adopt such a position in this matter; it would be much  more appropriate for it simply to be based on that State's manifest will to promote  co-operation with the Organization.
(2.3) Lastly, I consider paragraph 8 (d) to be superfluous: it goes without saying  that a State that withdraws from the Organization and asks to establish a mission  should discharge its financial obligations. What those financial obligations are has  not yet been clearly established in the case of the Member State that has withdrawn,  but this is not the place to deal with this problem; it would be indelicate and in-  appropriate for us to attempt to deal with it at this juncture, as the matter should  be examined in the context of Part B of the report. Apart from these few amendments  already suggested by other delegates, this paragraph seems perfectly acceptable to me.
(2.4) As regards the study of the desirability of requesting the International  Court of Justice to deliver an advisory opinion, I entirely agree that Unesco should  be invited to request such an opinion. In the first place, since the question admits  of divergent legal interpretations, the problem to which it gives rise must be tackled  through the most appropriate channel, which is this consultation. Secondly, for an  even more cogent reason. In my opinion, it is a question of dignity. The will to  support the international organizations involves defending their rights; the whole  purpose of our Organization is to ensure that mankind's wider interests, which emerge  after a long process of negotiation and consensus, should prevail over divergent  individual interests. We are therefore obliged to uphold the rights on which those
9 9 2     wider interests of mankind rest; were we not to do so we should be failing in our duty  and shirking our responsibilities, on the basis of unfounded fears which cannot  invalidate our duties and responsibilities.
(2.5) As has been said time and again, and I myself now reiterate, this consul-  tation is not directed against anyone, its aim is not to seek a verdict that would be  a solution to a contentious issue and I cannot therefore share the opinion expressed  by one delegate that arbitration would be preferable to consultation. This is not what  we want, nor is it applicable to Unesco's situation with regard to a Member State's  withdrawal. It is merely an advisory opinion to clarify a legal question and to enable  us to assume our rights and responsibilities with dignity. Once this opinion has been  handed down, we will then take the necessary steps. Moreover, the delivery of an  advisory opinion would in no way prevent the negotiations and consultations with the  Member State that has withdrawn from continuing - and I think this is what we all  want - in order to arrive at as amicable a solution to this problem as possible.
(2.6) I should like to express here and now my disagreement with the adverse argu-  ments advanced. Firstly, the argument of ineffectiveness: it has been suggested that,  for example, the Member State that has withdrawn, the United States of America, will  not abide by the advisory opinion delivered by the International Court of The Hague,  if it were unfavourable to it. In my opinion, this argument carries no weight, because  the purpose of this consultation is not to seek greater or lesser effectiveness; it is  a matter of juridical responsibility and dignity and clarification of our rights; it  is not a question of politic.al calculation. We cannot predict the result of the  consultation. We must distinguish between two quite separate levels: we are dealing  with a de jure and not a de facto issue.
(2.7) Nor do I think it possible to predict that the United States will reject the  ruling if it is unfavourable. How can we know this in advance? It is an argument that  does an injustice to the United States of America, a people and a nation we all  admire. It involves prejudging its decisions and, what is worse, showing a lack of  respect for that country. The United States is a nation that time and again throughout  its history has shown great respect for the law and for the will of all and has on  numerous occasions expressed the wish for law and order to prevail over and above pri-  vate interests. No. I will not insult it by assuming that it will dismiss an opinion  from the International Court. I have faith in the sense of justice and the respect for  the law which that nation has always shown. Consequently, I would not venture to  anticipate its reply, so that argument is invalid.
(2.8) Another argument that has been put forward is that this General Conference  itself should amend its Constitution in an attempt to resolve this specific problem.  This idea is no more valid than the preceding one because we do not as yet know what  decision will be taken on the proposed amendment and because an amendment to the Con-  stitution cannot take effect retroactively. It can be applied to situations that arise  in future; but we cannot shy away from a pronouncement on the question currently  occupying our minds on the grounds that decisions will be taken for application in the  future. In my opinion, therefore, there is no fundamental argument that can be used  against this consultation.
(2.9) I should like now to express my agreement with those who believe that we must  do our utmost to ensure that the contacts and negotiations between the Executive Board  and Unesco, represented by its Director-General, on the one hand and the United States  on the other are maintained in order for an amicable solution to be reached as quickly  as possible. I therefore propose the adoption of a draft decision in two parts, the  first containing a decision to request the International Court of Justice to deliver  an advisory opinion, and the second urging that the contacts and negotiations with the  Member State that has withdrawn from the Organization be maintained, in order to reach  an amicable solution to this problem. My hope is that if both aspects of the matter  are brought together in a single text, everyone would be satisfied and a consensus  reached.
(2.10) Lastly, I should like to mention the draft decision on personnel problems  contained in the Report of the Administrative Commission. That draft decision was the  result of tremendous efforts to reach agreement and consensus. I am grateful to those  who strove to make it possible and offered us a text that should serve as a basis for  consensus. While I would not wish to upset that consensus, I feel that there is still  room for a few amendments which, if accepted, would make it possible to adopt the  draft decision without difficulty.
(2.11) First of all, I wish to state that this matter is of supreme importance not  only for the Organization but also for the staff. We must therefore protect our Organ-  ization's interests, as well as the legitimate interests of international civil  servants, some of whom have devoted many years to the Organization and have performed  their duties with great efficiency. I therefore think we should apply the existing  jurisprudence on the international civil service. I consequently propose an amendment  to the draft resolution that appears on page 5 of document 23 CI102 Add. and Corr.,
993    adding at the beginning of the operative part after the word 'Decides', the following  phrase: 'In conformity with the relevant laws and statutes and with existing jurispru-  dence on the international civil service'. It seems to me that no one should have any  difficulty in accepting this amendment, which would provide specific and legitimate  protection for international civil servants who have served the Organization. It might  be inserted after the word 'Decides', before the operative paragraphs, but it could  well be inserted in another, more suitable, place.
(2.12) I find pa.ragraph 2 unnecessary, since it repeats directives to the Director-  General already contained in previous paragraphs. If we propose a solution to the  question of staff, in the extraordinary situation prevailing at present, I do not see  how we can invite the Director-General to study further ways of resolving the situ-  ation. We cannot keep on asking the Director-General to carry out study after study on  a particular question, on which we are supposed to give him directives. Let us not  overburden the Director-General. In fact, in paragraphs 1 (d) and 1 (e) he has already  been entrusted with a great responsibility, a mammoth task: that of exercising his  discretion, in order to deal with the staff situation, in the renewal of contracts and  in the event of a reduction of staff.
(2.13) It is not my intentioil to disrupt the consensus with the amendments I have  proposed. I think they could be considered in conjunction with others proposed by  other delegates. The President could perhaps submit them once more for our approval  after the debate and B consensus could probably be reached in plenary on this draft  resolution, with the relevant amendments without the need for further discussion.  Otherwise, I think we should refer the text to the Drafting and Negotiation Group that  was set up to take action in similar circumstances, without needing to create yet  another group, as Mr Wynter suggested with the best of intentions. Thank you,  Mr President.
3. Le PRESIDENT :
1 'Argentine.  Je remercie le délégué du Mexique et je donne la parole à la déléguée de
(4.1) Mrs KELLY (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, first of all my delegation would like to thank the Legal Com-  mittee and the Administrative Commission for their reports. We consider that both  these reports have made a very constructive contribution towards the solution of the  problem before us. My delegation would like very briefly to express its opinion on the  main points at issue. In the first place, I would like to raise the matter of the  'observer capacity' or 'situation' that is being discussed at this Conference; that is  to say, to ascertain whether or not that capacity should be granted to withdrawing  States. My delegation strongly favours a position that draws no distinction between  the observer capacity of a non-Member State - one that has never been a member - and  that of a country that has withdrawn from membership. As far as we are concerned, no  distinction should be made nor categories created within observer status in this  Organization or any other organization of the United Nations system.
(4.2) Secondly, we wish to make it absolutely clear here that, while it is true  that Unesco's Constitution makes no provision for countries to be represented as
995    observers to the Organization, we feel that such a precedent has already been estab-  lished, and within this very Organization, by the situation of the Holy See and the  present situation of the United States which is based on a decision taken by the  Executive Board. Mr President, the decision to allow a State to become an observer  should, I think, be based on examination of each case on its own merits, and in  accordance with norms already established in one way or another which are embodied in  the Executive Board's report. We therefore endorse the stance taken by those  delegations that are in favour of continuing the established practice to which I have  ref erred.
(4.3) As regards the possibility of requesting the International Court of Justice  to deliver an advisory opinion, we support the four points set out in paragraph 19 of  the Legal Committee's report. Our delegation certainly agrees that this is the situ-  ation regarding the problem of the specifically political advisability of asking the  Court for an advisory opinion. In this connection, while we recognize the Organiz-  ation's right, if it so decided, to request an advisory opini-on, we believe that in  this case it would be more appropriate to authorize the Executive Board to negotiate  with the States concerned, if there should be more than one - and we naturally hope  that this will not be the caee - instead of taking this matter to the Court. I repeat,  Mr President, we maintain that it is neither advisable nor opportune at this particu-  lar time to refer the question to the International Court of Justice, because we feel  that the consequences of the withdrawal of the United States should be the subject of  a process of negotiation undertaken by the Executive Board.
(4.4) Turning to the Administrative Commission's report, we fully support and  endorse the contents of paragraph 25 relating to financial consequences. Mr President,  we also wish to mention briefly the financial consequences of a Member State's with-  drawal, as they affect the Secretariat's personnel. It is essential in our view to  avoid any consideration that might in any way take the form of discrimination against  the Secretariat's staff members who are nationals of the Member State that has with-  drawn. We firmly maintain this position and wish to express our reservations regarding  some of the arguments put forward to support the view that the financial consequences  of that withdrawal, which inevitably involve a reduction of the Secretariat staff,  should first and foremost affect staff members who are nationals of the withdrawing  State.
(4.5) Some speakers seemed to be suggesting that any country's nationals must per-  force be affected by their government's decisions. Unless I am very much mistaken we  are treading on dangerous ground here, Mr President, and it may have very negative  repercussions. For how could this organization of any other organization of the United  Nations system justify any failure to heed the lesson of governments, for example,  that call for decisions regarding their nationals when those nationals do not enjoy  their confidence? This was the situation of a great many of my compatriots who were  international civil servants during the time of the military dictatorship in my  country, and who were the helpless victims of that sort of pressure, that was brought  to bear on the international organizations. I must say that those international organ-  izations rejected pressures of that kind, invoking precisely the principle that inter-  national civil servants were under an obligation to perform their duties absolutely  impartially. Unless that impartiality is at stake or called in question, no concession  should be made to pressure from any government. My delegation, if it has correctly  understood the arguments of equity on which the views of many delegations are based,  feels that it is important to emphasize the need not to take that line of argument too  far, since it may well establish undesirable precedents.
(4.6) Mr President, I consider that the very nature of the international civil  service implies fundamental obligations of impartiality and ability in the performance  of one's duties. This is not - nor should it be - a fiction, nor should we behave as  if it were. My delegation agrees that decisions concerning the Secretariat personnel  should be taken on the basis of nationality only when it is a question of applying the  principle of equitable geographical distribution, both in the recruitment of staff and  in any decision-making relating to the renewal of contracts and related matters.
(4.7) Nor, Mr President, do we accept the criterion that those functions should be  assigned to nationals of a particular country simply because the State of which they  are nationals makes a more substantial contribution than others; by that I mean that  we are totally against the idea that advantages should accrue to a State that makes a  larger quantitative contribution, enabling it to have more nationals employed in the  Secretariat, in violation of the principle of equitable geographical distribution. Nor  do we accept that the financial consequences of a State's decision to withdraw should  necessarily affect the nationals of that State.
(4.8) Lastly, Mr President, in this debate we have heard exchanges that, in one way  or another, demonstrate the existence of very divergent positions on all these issues  which I do not think this plenary is in a position to settle. I am therefore asking  you, once this debate is over, to refer the question for study and analysis to the  Drafting and Negotiation Group, so that it may then suggest to us some kind of sol-  ution for the plenary to examine. Thank you, Mr President.
5. Le PRESIDENT :  du Zimbabwe.  Je remercie la déléguée de l'Argentine et je donne la parole au délégué
6.1 Mr JAMBWA ( Zimbabwe) :  Mr President, allow me to commend the Legal Committee and the Adminis-  trative Commission for accomplishing their tasks in accordance with the terms of  reference given to them by the General Conference. Having chaired some committees  in the past, I would like to help you by promising that I shall be brief because  I know that it can be a traumatic experience to stay here throughout the night  like we did in Paris not too long ago.
6.2 A number of Member States have already spoken on a number of issues that  arise from these two reports. Our interest in making this intervention at this  late hour is not to repeat what has already been said, but to state Zimbabwe's  position in this debate in the light of what those of like mind have already  said. At the beginning of this crisis, Zimbabwe made its position clear during  the special session of the Executive Board that if observer mission status con-  stitutes the first step towards rejoining, and we hope it is, then we welcome  that type of relation. Nobody would contest that the United States of America was  within its Constitutional rights when it withdrew from Unesco: this is therefore  not a question of debate: rather our task as remaining members of the Organiz-  ation is to see in what ways the policies and laws that govern the workings of  our Organization and the obligations of Member States can be made so clear that  the so-called 'crisis management' that has typified our actions since the with-  drawal of the United States or America becomes a thing of the past.
6.3 In respect of'observer status, perhaps we do need to differentiate here  between those States which wish to observe with a view to joining and those which  leave the Organization but wish to remain in contact with it with the intention  of rejoining at a later stage. In view of the pattern of withdrawals plaguing the  United Nations system we suggest that there be a new status for Member States  that withdraw but wish to keep in contact with the Organization. This new status  could in its rules, among other things, oblige Member States with such a status  not to use their privileged positions to unduly influence proceedings of the  Organization.
6.4 On the issue of taking the United States of America to the International  Court of Justice, we fully support other delegations, especially that of  Australia, in the view that this is a futile and time-consuming exercise, since  the Organization itself has ways of changing its own rules. It appears to us that  the moral obligation of the United States to Unesco is very clear and that we  really do not need to go to an international court for this to be established.  But, as so many people have put it, and as it was put by the head of the  Australian delegation, laws do not operate in a vacuum, and it would appear from  the Director-General's report on the consequences of the withdrawal of a Member  State that the outdated laws governing such issues are presently against us. So,  in the view of the present dangerous degree of polarization of views between our  Organization and the United States of America, we endorse the Kenyan suggestion  of some type of arbitration, to be set up to get the two parties talking yet  again. We believe that it is important to remember that the strength of our  Organization lies in the fact that its Member States are not coerced to join, but  as sovereign States freely join this universal body. We therefore consider that  it is essential for dialogue to continue.
6.5 Turning to the issue of staff, my delegation fully supports the view  that staff presently employed by Unesco should be treated fairly and should not  be penalized for their country of origin's stand towards Unesco. Let me refer to  the Executive Board decision that we were a party to and which is in document
23 C/93. On page 2, we recommend that the General Conference study the following  two questions:'When a Member State withdraws from the Organization, may the  fixed-term contracts of Secretariat staff members who are nationals of that State  be renewed when they expire?' 'If a reduction of staff is decided upon, should  that reduction first of all affect, their competence being equal, nationals of  States that are not members of the Organization?' These questions were examined  in the Administrative Commission, and my delegation wishes to go along with the  delicate consensus that has already very nearly been reached. We would argue that  it is not being discriminatory to view recruitment in the way envisaged, as many  Member States would wish some of their nationals to also contribute directly to  the work of Unesco, and in the process gain the valuable experience offered by  working for such an Organization; this is especially the case of the under-  representated Member States, like Zimbabwe. It is, of course, true that many of  the experienced staff members of our organization are drawn mainly from the  developed and founding nations such as the United States of America, the United  Kingdom and others. Nevertheless we would argue that in cases where two candi-  dates are interviewed for the same post, there should be positive discrimination
997    in favour of Member States, and especially the under-represented among them. We  believe that only in this way can we eventually build up a reservoir of expertise  from all the Member States, big and small alike. Thank you, Mr President.
7. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le délégué du Zimbabwe et je donne la parole au délégué de
1'Ethiopie.
8.1 Mr KEBRETH (Ethiopia) :  Mr President, the questions before us come in the troubled aftermath of  the withdrawal of a member, of a founding Member State, from our Organization.  Still more withdrawals are possibly in the offing. This situation has brought  about a state of vague uncertainty that permeates Unesco, affecting the morale of  its staff and disrupting the normal exercise of its functions. In such a diffi-  cult time, lest our cherished principles be thrown overboard, it is natural that  we should be seeking to restate or enunciate those principles that might stand us  in good stead so as to ensure the Organization's continued functioning and pre-  serve its integrity. My delegation. joins in this debate with such a purpose in  mind. We look forward to the future and we are by no means haunted by that single  act of withdrawal.
8.2 Mr President, in the search for a solution to the questions before us,  we believe that negotiations should have been the first necessary step; indeed,  serious negotiations could have helped to resolve a good part of the questions  and we might have been able to deal only with residual issues. Unfortunately,  such is not the case. From the side of the State concerned, there has been no  apparent movement towards a search for a negotiated settlement, nor are we aware  of any such signal. We face a bleak landscape. It is against this background that  we are engaged in this debate and we attach importance to the reports of the  Administrative Commission and the Legal Committee, to whose competent Chairmen we  owe debts of gratitude. For their reports have thrown light on the subject and  sharpened our perceptions.
8.3 We would like to state that much as we continue to attach great import-  ance to negotiation, we consider that at this stage we should not make a mystique  of negotiation and invoke it to frustrate consideration of the principles and  rules set out in the reports of the two bodies that are before us.
8.4 Mr President, I intend to devote my remarks mainly to the Legal Com-  mittee's report, and will only very briefly refer to the report of the Adminis-  trative Commission and the related Algeria/Jamaica draft resolution. Let me say  at once that my delegation finds that draft resolution agreeable in so far as it  seeks to provide broad guidelines to the Director-General on the matter of staff  recruitment and tenure. As part of the guidelines, we attach particular import-  ance to the need to maintain on a continuing basis geographical representation  whenever the balance of such a representation becomes upset as a consequence of a  State or States withdrawing from the Organization. There can be no denying the  paramountcy of the requirements of integrity, efficiency and technical compet-  ence, but we submit that these requirements ought to operate as a general rule  within the geographical scope of the membership of Unesco. I would like to  reserve my delegation's right to speak again on this matter should that become  necessary.
8.5 Mr President, now I would like to turn to the Legal Committee's report.  First, on the question of observer status, my delegation's reaction to para-  graph 8 of the report is one of positive assessment. Above all, we consider that  the principles set out there would seem to constitute in their main thrust an  invitation to negotiation extended to the State, or States, as the case may be.  In view of the fact that, to say the least, doubt has been cast on the propriety  of the principles set out in paragraph 8, I would like to comment on two of them.  First, the principle appearing under subparagraph (a) (ii), namely 'the desir-  ability of endeavouring as far as possible to preserve the universal character of  the Organization'; to my delegation, a Statement of this principle is important  and even necessary, for it links as it should the grant of observer status to the  objective of preserving the universal character of Unesco. Moving on to the other  principle in subparagraph (b), which concerns the fact of a State's 'endeavouring  to promote co-operation with the Organization', I would like to ask a question  here: what is wrong in requiring in connection with potential observer status the  endeavour to promote co-operation with the Organization? It has been suggested  that a subjective factor of appreciation comes in when deciding whether or not a  State is endeavouring to promote co-operation; in the view of my delegation, the  test of co-operation - as is often the case in practice - amounts to nothing more  than a formal statement of a firm pledge to co-operate with the Organization. Now  putting aside the issue of subjectivity, is it not a fact that the Member States  themselves, Jet alone observer States, do undertake a variety of pledges to  respect the purposes and principles of the Organization? Finally, while on this
28  matter, I would like to refer to alleged discrimination between non-Member States  and ex-Member States seeking observer status. In our view, discrimination does  not seem to be a case in point, for two reasons. First, the thrust of the prin-  ciples in paragraph 8 is not to lay down hard and fast discriminatory rules; they  are, in the words of the introduction, 'to serve as a framework for ... talks and  negotiations'. They are certainly not couched in language suggestive of an  imposition. The second reason that in our view counters the notion of discrimin-  ation, itself an abhorrent notion, is that the principles are elaborated in such  a way as to cope with differing factual situations. The case here seems to us to  be the adoption of a differentiated approach, rather than the consecration of  discriminatory rules, in dealing with a situation unprecedented in the life of  Unesco, or possibly in the life of any other international organization.
8.6 Mr President, I would now like to turn to the Legal Committee's report  relating to the question of requesting an advisory opinion from the International  Court of Justice. My delegation is of the view that,in the absence of a negoti-  ated settlement, it would generally speaking be appropriate to request an  advisory opinion from the Hague Court on a matter that concerns the interpre-  tation of a provision in Unesco's Constitution, namely Article 11.6, and all the  more so in view of the fact that the question has resolved itself into a clear-  cut legal issue: is a withdrawing State liable to pay for the second year of the  budgetary period? Such an evolution of the question as a legal issue should have  been welcomed by all concerned, as one of the techniques of diplomacy is to try  to isolate those matters that lend themselves to judicial or arbitral solution  from those that would have to be settled by other procedures. An authoritative  answer to the question would be useful above all because Unesco cannot afford to  keep the matter too long in abeyance and in a state of uncertainty. Considering  further the possible withdrawal of other Member States, the need for such an  interpretation assumes important dimensions.
8.7 But we do come across views advising against recourse to the Court. With  defesence to all those holding opposite views to ours, I would like to deal with  one or two of the objections. It is suggested that the Court might decline to  deliver its opinion on the ground that the request for opinion was politically  motivated. Let me ask a question: who is said to be politically motivated? Is it  Unesco, which is to appear as the party requesting an opinion of the Court? I  believe that one would be hard put to impute political motivation to Unesco, an  organization which has a legal personality, distinct and separate from that of  its Member States. Is it then being suggested that the political motivation is  that of the 161 Member States who can be reached, if I may use the term, by  piercing the corporate veil of Unesco? I do not wish to appear to belabour this  point, and I would just like to ask again: if we are to speak of political moti-  vation, whose is such motivation - of those calling for recourse to the Court, or  of those who are advising against that step?
8.8 Mr President, we have also heard the view that the State concerned would  spurn the opinion of the Court or would not act upon it in the event of its being  unfavourable to it. Here we would merely wish to note that all along, right from  the start, we do recognize that the Court's opinion is purely advisory and that  its importance lies in its moral authority. More serious seems to us to be the  consideration that the Court might deliver an opinion unfavourable to the Organ-  ization, and one may add that even in the case of a favourable opinion a strong  dissent by one or more of the judges would detract from the authority of the  Court's opinion. All the same, this is not to us at this stage a reason for  deciding against the desirability of seeking the Court's opinion but rather a  counsel for further study in depth of our legal case.
8.9 What seems to us a proper step to take would be to decide in principle  on the desirability of referral to the Court, but that time be given to the  Director-General to prepare a legal memorandum, if necessary, after seeking the  views of a broad range of jurists and lawyers, and to prepare a report on the  subject for the Executive Board at its next session in Paris, for all appropriate  action that the Board might take in the exercise of its discretion. Thank you,  Mr President.
9. Le PRESIDENT :  la République-Unie de Tanzanie.
10.1 Mr MUWOWO (United Republic of Tanzania):  Mr President, I will be very brief and would like at the outset to add  my voice to those of the speakers who took the floor before me and offer my  delegation's appreciation for the good work that has gone into producing the  reports of the Legal and Administrative Commissions presently under discussion.  My delegation was not represented in the Legal Committee, but we followed closely  Je remercie le délégué de 1'Ethiopie er je donne la parole au délégué de
999    and with very keen interest the presentation in plenary by the Chairman of the  Committee and the debate that has taken place since then on item 2.3.
10.2 My delegation's main difficulty in this whole matter concerns questions  of principle. Here we are, with one Member State, one of the founding members,  deciding for its own reasons to withdraw from the Organization. And we, the re-  maining Member States, find ourselves plunged into protracted debate which has  lasted close on two years, if the events which followed soon after the end of the  twenty-second session of the General Conference are taken as the turning point of  the state in which we now find ourselves. My delegation believes that this Organ-  ization has gone out of its way to try to respond to the wishes of the Member  State that has withdrawn. And here we recall the number of sessions of the Exec-  utive Board, the initiatives taken by the Director-General, the work of the Tem-  porary Committee and all its recommendations for reform. My delegation believes  that a good deal has been done to cope with the situation at hand and, if I may  continue the image of the game of tennis which was mentioned before, I believe  that we may well say that, at this point, the ball is in the other court and the  game is one of give and take.
10.3 My delegation, Mr President, like many delegations in this assembly,  regrets very much that these events ever developed at all. But naturally we all  accept that in these matters each sovereign Member State has the right to decide  for itself. The request, however, from such a Member State that it be granted  observer status is one which my delegation finds quite difficult to understand.  First, what is the rationale when a Member State withdraws from the Organization  and, at the same time, attempts to retain its seat in the Organization? Secondly,  is it possible to envisage a situation in which two or maybe three Member States  leave the Organization, and then all retain .their seats as non-contributing  members in the name of observers? My delegation believes that observer status and  the financial obligations of a Member State which has withdrawn from the Organiz-  ation are questions of principle governing international relations. They are  questions of justice and fair play.
10.4 Finally, Mr President, my delegation would like to go along with the  proposal which has already been put forward by some distinguished delegate who  took the floor before me that perhaps what we need to do at the present stage is  possibly to set up a small working party to look into the issues more closely and  perhaps empower the Executive Board to decide finally on behalf of the General  Conference. The working party would have more time to study the issues carefully  and in a sober mood, taking into account the views and proposals of Member States  as expressed in the course of what has proved to be a very rich debate in this  plenary. Mr President, I thank you.
11. Le PRESIDENT :  parole au délégué du Ghana.  Je remercie le délégué de la République-Unie de Tanzanie et je donne la
12.1 Mr TETTEH-TAWIAH (Ghana) :  Thank you, Mr President. In connection with the Legal Committee's  report, I would like to deal further with the reciprocal rights and obligations  of the Organization and a Member State which withdraws and which might, on  request, have observer status. Mr President, my delegation agrees with the Legal  Committee that 'there are no provisions in either the Constitution or the Rules  of Procedure of the General Conference from which it might be deduced that there  is a specific observer status'. We further agree that 'the fact that there are no  specific provisions concerning observer status has not prevented Unesco from  accepting the establishment of permanent observer missions to the Organization in  accordance with generally agreed international practice'. However, in granting  observer facilities to States Unesco has always been motivated by one desire,  namely to facilitate the progressive participation in its activities of States  which for one reason or another have not been able yet to accept the Constitution  of the Organization.
12.2 The fact that a State which has not yet joined Unesco appoints an  observer delegate to the Organization is a sign of interest and such interest  should be encouraged and deepened resulting in the eventual joining of the Organ-  ization by such an observer State. There has, however, in recent times been a new  development in international participation, namely the situation where a State  which is a member of an organization withdraws therefrom and later applies to the  organization to grant it the necessary facilities for observer mission. We there-  fore find ourselves with two types of observer members: firstly, the State or  country which is serving its apprenticeship before joining the organization as a  fully-fledged member: and secondly, the State which was a fully-fledged member  but has now left the organization because of a misunderstanding it had with its  fellow members or because of some selfish reason, euphemistically referred to as  self-interest, and is applying for observer status.
12.3 Now, Mr President, confronted with this situation the General Conference  is asking us to advise it as to what should be the reciprocal rights and obli-  gations of the Organization and a Member State which withdraws and which might,  on request, have observer status. As we are all aware, every organization has the  sovereign right to decide who shall be its members, and by analogy my delegation  is saying that Unesco should not be denied the sovereign right to choose a State  to whom it would grant observer status and upon what terms. In other words, my  delegation is saying that Unesco should be allowed to decide which State to grant  observer status to and what should be the reciprocal rights and obligations of  Unesco and of the State to which it grants such status. Mr President, my  delegation therefore cannot but agree with paragraph 8 of the Legal Committee's  report, and fully endorses the principles submitted to serve as a framework for  the consideration by Unesco of an application for observer status that may be  submitted by a member which has withdrawn from the Organization or which with-  draws from the Organization.
12.4 According to some previous speakers, following such principles may  amount to or lead to discrimination between a State which withdraws and a State  which has not been a member of the Organization. Mr President, my delegation begs  to differ. We hold that this is pure common sense. The Organization cannot afford  to commit suicide in the name of preserving its universal character. In fact,  when a State withdraws from the Organization and later applies to establish a  permanent observer mission, it should be possible to test the bona fides of that  State by insisting that it discharges its financial obligations in respect of the  Organization as provided in the latter's Constitution, if it has not already done  so.
12.5 Mr President, it is fine to talk about preserving the universal charac-  ter of the Organization; but, while calling on Unesco to preserve its universal  character, my delegation would like to be placed on record as saying that sight  must not be lost of the fact that one State should not be allowed to blackmail  the rest of the membership of the Organization, and thus create conditions con-  ducive to the tarnishing of the universal character of Unesco by reducing the  other members of the Organization to mere cyphers.
12.6 Mr President, I now turn to the second point, whether or not to request  the International Court of Justice to deliver an advisory opinion on the  financial obligations of a Member State which withdraws from the Organization in  the course of a budgetary period. On this, Mr President, my delegation agrees  with the Legal Committee; in fact it endorses the points made by the Legal Com-  mittee in its report. However, Mr President, while endorsing those points my  delegation would most respectfully ask the General Conference to study carefully  the views expressed by the distinguished delegate of Guyana this morning on this  matter. My delegation also trusts that the necessary amendments will be intro-  duced into the Constitution of this Organization at this session or in the very  near future and thus obviate the necessity of having the matter studied again by  the Legal Committee.
12.7 Now, Mr President, we turn to the impact on the recruitment, management  and composition of the Secretariat staff resulting from the withdrawal of the  Member State of the Organization. My delegation has nothing but praise for the  report of the Administrative Commission on this matter. At the same time, it  would like to recommend to the General Conference to study carefully the draft  resolution jointly submitted by Algeria and Jamaica as document 23 C/ADM/DR.9 of
19 October 1985, which was adopted by consensus by the Administrative Commission  and which my delegation considers from soundings it has conducted as fully  addressing the wishes of the Member States on this matter.
12.8 Mr President, it cannot be over-emphasized that this twenty-third  session of the General Conference is taking place at a very delicate and critical  stage in Unesco's life, not only at a time when the whole world is holding its  breath because our little planet is being threatened with destruction resulting  from thermonuclear madness, but also at a time when our Organization is under  attack by one of the two superpowers, at a time when the universal character of  our Organization is under assault by a superpower. It is, therefore, Mr Presi-  dent, imperative that members of the Organization approach their deliberations at  this session with seriousness and open minds. In this connection, my delegation  is glad to have found this seriousness and open-mindedness reflected in every  aspect of the work of the session. Under the circumstances, it was a gratuitious  insult to the intelligence of the members of the Legal Committee, who had spent  so many hours and so much brain-power arriving at their report, for someone to  impute their report to biased minds or, worse still, dishonest motives. In fact,  that muck-raking mind even went further to suggest, by means of intemperate  language, that this plenary debate has been hurriedly convened to gang up on 13  countries. A fellow-traveller or rather a like-minded muck-raker also sought to
1001    bamboozle us and throw dust in our eyes by quoting ad infinitum the Vienna Con-  vention of 1975 to support some spurious arguments he was trying to ram down our  throats.
12.9 However, God is not a muck-raker, for He allowed the distinguished head  of the Australian delegation to treat these muck-rakers and us to the history of  the Vienna Convention. In this history lesson, the distinguished head of the  Australian delegation disclosed to us that the governments of these self-same  muck-rakers have up to now refused to ratify the Convention, thus depriving the  Convention of the requisite number of ratifications to enable it to come into  force. To be honest, Mr President, this masterly exposition of history opened the  eyes of many of us to the existence of perfidy, dishonesty and downright hypoc-  risy of States in international relations.
12.10 Mr President, the price of freedom, we are told, is eternal vigilance.  My delegation would like to go on record as saying that the freedom of this  Organization'to pursue its objectives while at the same time preserving its uni-  versal character is worth nothing less. Thank you, Mr President.
13. Le PRESIDENT :  la parole.
14.1 M. SAMAKE (Mali) :  Je vous remercie Monsieur le Président. Vous me permettrez tout d'abord  de remercier aussi les Présidents du Comité juridique et de la Commission admi-  nistrative pour l'excellence de l'analyse qu'ils ont faite des problèmes délicats  posés dans le document 23 C/93. Pour être bref, je me contenterai d'affirmer que  la délégation du Mali souscrit aux observations présentées par l'honorable  délégué de l'Algérie et soutient ces propositions claires et logiques.
14.2 En effet, les trois questions soumises à l'appréciation de la Conférence  générale dans le document 23 CI93 se ramènent à un seul problème : au problème  fondamental des mesures concrètes à prendre pour affermir et consolider le  caractère universel de l'organisation qui constitue une préoccupation majeure,  essentielle, absolue pour nous tous.
14.3 En la matière, le Comité juridique a rappelé dans le document
23 ClLEGl5, page 2 de la version française, la jurisprudence concernant les  facilités à octroyer à des Etats observateurs. Le rapport à ce sujet, le  document 26 EXl22, précisait que l'octroi de ces facilités "pourrait, dans  certains cas, sembler souhaitable du point de vue diplomatique : elles pourraient  amener certains Etats qui, pour une raison ou une autre, n'ont pas encore été en  mesure d'adhérer à l'Acte constitutif de l'Unesco, à prendre progressivement part  à l'action. Le fait qu'un Etat qui ne fait pas encore partie de l'Unesco, désigne  un délégué auprès de l'Organisation, constitue une marque d'intérêt de sa part.  I1 serait donc bon d'accorder à ces représentants ou délégués des facilités aussi  étendues que possible dans l'accomplissement de leur mission".
14.4 C o m e  vous pouvez tous le constater, les facilités dont il est question,  s'adressent bel et bien à des Etats non encore membres, à des Etats qui font un  pas pour se rapprocher de l'organisation, qui font une démarche positive pour  rejoindre l'organisation. Dans ce cas, il est tout à fait normal que nous  fassions tout pour encourager, inciter tout Etat non encore membre, à rejoindre  l'organisation, la grande famille de l'Unesco, pour en consolider le caractère  universel recherché.
14.5 Mais dans le cas actuel, nous ne sommes pas en présence d'une tendance  positive. En effet, il s'agit d'un Etat déjà membre de l'organisation, d'un Etat,  de surcroît, qui est membre fondateur de l'organisation et veut transformer son  statut d'Etat membre en position d'observateur. Au lieu d'un pas en avant pour  rejoindre l'Organisation, il fait bel et bien un pas en arrière pour s'en  éloigner. La tendance négative ici est manifeste. C'est 18 la nouvelle donnée.  Hier, les facilités d'observateur étaient conçues c o m e  des tendances positives ;  aujourd'hui nous nous trouvons devant une tendance négative. Quel que soit le  désagrément que nous puissions en ressentir, nous ne devons pas fermer les yeux  pour l'ignorer. Tourner le dos à une réalité désagréable ne la fait pas dispa-  raître pour autant. A une tendance positive, il faut les traitements conve-  nables ; à une tendance négative, il faut les traitements appropriés. Les deux  traitements ne sauraient être les mêmes.
14.6 C'est pourquoi, ma délégation, je le rappelle, partage le point de vue  de la délégation algérienne. Nous ne sommes contre aucun pays, qu'il soit grand  ou petit, puissant ou faible ; nous ne voulons braver personne, n'humilier  personne. Dans la grande famille de l'Unesco, nous avons besoin de tout le monde.  Si il y a une discrimination à faire, celle-ci n'est pas dirigée contre un Etat  Je remercie le délégué du Ghana et j'invite le délégué du Mali à prendre
1002    en tant que tel, mais contre une attitude. Une tendance positive de rapprochement  ne peut pas être traitée de la même manière qu'une tendance négative  d'éloignement.
14.7 Cependant, Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les délégués, malgré la  rigueur logique de la démarche à suivre pour résoudre le problème, un doute  demeure qui a été souligné par des honorables orateurs qui ont pris la parole  avant moi : en agissant d'une certaine manière, sommes-nous sûrs de ne pas  accélérer l'éloignement que nous déplorons ? D'autres Etats ne vont-ils pas  emboîter le pas au premier ? N'allons-nous pas provoquer une réaction en chaîne ?  L'embarras est réel. Nous nous trouvons, comme on le dit dans mon pays, obligés à  d'exécuter une danse difficile, très difficile, et cependant obligatoire. Si vous  dansez en avant, vous risquer de perdre votre père ; si vous dansez en arrière,  vous risquez de perdre votre mère, et si vous ne dansez pas, c'est toute la  famille et le danseur lui-même qui sont en danger. Que faire ? I1 faut agir en  obéissant à de bonnes intentions, ce qui est un principe universel. Celui qui y  trouvera à redire, si à redire il y a, ne pourra nous refuser le mérite d'avoir  agi dans de bonnes intentions. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
15. Le PRESIDENT :  France.  Je remercie le délégué du Mali et je donne la parole à la déléguée de la
16.1 Mme HALIMI (France) :  Merci, Monsieur 'le Président. Monsieur le Président, mes chers  collègues, au risque de lasser, au risque d'agacer, je voudrais rappeler que  toutes nos démarches lors de cette Conférence générale, toutes nos interventions  sur les thèmes dont nous débattons, quels qu'ils soient, doivent être toujours  inspirées par deux considérations : la première, l'Unesco - intérêt supérieur -  sa survie, le fait que c'est une Organisation irremplaçable, et la deuxième,  élargir peut-être le consensus, mais n'accepter aucune démarche qui puisse mettre  en cause les accords qui ont déjà été obtenus et qui constituent un pas très  important dans la voie de la solution des problèmes que nous avons à l'Unesco.
16.2 Deuxième remarque, Monsieur le Président, si vous m'y autorisez - c'est  une remarque subjective, mais après tout, pourquoi de temps en temps ne  serions-nous pas des êtres humains ayant des réactions subjectives - c'est une  certaine crainte que j'ai déjà exprimée au Conseil exécutif et qui est que ce  genre de débat, s'il venait à traîner, s'il devait conduire à de multiples  interventions et réinterventions, risquerait de créer une tension, une espèce de  malaise, qui est parfaitement inopportun. Mais, il faut bien dire qu'objecti-  vement des problèmes se posent ; or, quand des problèmes se posent, disait je  crois Marx, c'est qu'il y a des solutions. I1 nous faut donc trouver des  solutions et nous allons les trouver.
16.3 Les problèmes existent. I1 y en a trois : le statut d'observateur, le  paiement de la contribution des Etats-Unis pour la deuxième année de l'exercice  et la situation du personnel. Pour deux séries de ces problèmes, il faut bien  reconnaître - et c'est là notre difficulté, c'est là le sens de nos recherches -  qu'il n'y a pas de précédents. Je veux parler du statut d'observateur et de la  démarche à suivre pour savoir si oui ou non les Etats-Unis sont redevables du  paiement de la deuxième annuité.
16.4 Sur le statut d'observateur, il faut dire très franchement qu'il s'agit,  plutôt que d'un statut, des conditions faites à un Etat qui était membre, qui ne  l'est plus et qui souhaite d'une certaine manière le redevenir, ce dont nous  devons nous réjouir, dans d'autres conditions. I1 n'y a pas de précédents, et je  reconnais que ia question qui nous est posée ne peut en aucune façon être assi-  milée à la situation de ceux que nous appelons "observateurs", c'est-à-dire les  Etats qui n'ont jamais été membres de l'organisation et qui sont parmi nous comme  simples observateurs.
16.5 Et puis, il y avait, toujours objectivement, une troisième raison qui  faisait que nous étions finalement obligés d'assumer ce débat et de l'assumer  sérieusement. C'est que le Directeur général a besoin de directives. Je crois que  parmi les procès qu'on lui a faits - les faux procès qu'on lui a faits - il y a  le fait - qui m'a frappée, moi qui venais de l'extérieur - que les recommanda-  tions du Conseil exécutif sont formulées dans une espèce de "sabir unesquien",  assez peu compréhensible pour les personnes de l'extérieur, mais aussi pour  celles de l'intérieur, et qu'elles continuent à garder un flou, des contours mal  définis, qui font que, à très juste titre, le Directeur gênéral pouvait et devait  demander des directives. Et c'est là où est le faux procès : parce que s'il ne  les demandait pas, on le lui reprochait au moment de l'exécution, et s'il les  demande, on met en cause la nécessité de ce débat.
16.6 Sur le statut d'observateur, je serai très brève. Je voudrais d'abord - j'allais presque dire en connaisseuse - féliciter très chaleureusement le  Comité juridique de son travail. Je crois que tout a été expliqué, épluché, écrit  et, ce qui est très exceptionnel et ce dont je veux de nouveau féliciter le  Comité juridique et son Président, c'est que c'est écrit pour une fois dans un  language tellement clair que même les non-juristes s'y retrouvent. Sur le point  du statut d'observateur, je voudrais me référer brièvement au paragraphe 8 du  document 23 C/103. Monsieur le Président, j'aurai très peu de choses à dire. A  l'alinéa (a) de ce paragraphe, il est dit que l'examen doit se fonder sur deux  points importants : protéger les intérêts de l'organisation et veiller à assurer  son activité normale - je pense qu'il était nécessaire de le dire - et tenter  dans la mesure du possible de préserver le caractère universel de l'organisa-  tion - je dis bravo ! A l'alinéa (b), il est indiqué que l'examen de 1 oppor-  tunité d'octroyer des facilités à une mission permanente d'observation doit se  fonder sur le fait qu'un Etat s'efforce de promouvoir la coopération avec  l'Organisation - je dis encore : bravo ! Ensuite (alinéa (c)), 1'Etat concerné  doit assumer les dépenses qui découlent des facilités octro,yées : je pense que  cela va de soi. Mais je me pose une question à propos de 1 alinéa (d) : est-ce  que cet alinéa n'est pas en train d'empiéter finalement sur le deuxième point,  qui est précisément de savoir si, oui ou non, cet Etat qui était membre, qui ne  l'est plus et qui veut revenir comme observateur, a des obligations financières  dont il doit s'acquitter ? J'ai l'impression que l'on anticipe car il me parait  difficile qu'on puisse trancher cette question avant d'aborder le second point et  de lui apporter une solution.
16.7 J'en viens donc au second point : est-ce que la contribution de la  deuxième annuité serait due ou non par les Etats-Unis, qui ont quitté l'Orga-  nisation à la fin de l'année 1984 ? Sur ce point, on a prévu de consulter la Cour  internationale de justice. Franchement, je ne vois aucun mal à cela. La Cour  internationale de justice, j'allais dire par excellence, est faite pour ren-  seigner les Organisations internationales et, par conséquent, nous pouvons la  consulter. Ce que je préciserai - ce que je souhaiterais en tout cas, au nom de  mon pays, que l'on précise - c'est que, à aucun moment, dans notre pensée à nous  tous, la demande d'une consultation - car il s'agit bien d'une consultation - ne  prend un caractère contentieux. Monsieur le Président, cela me parait fondamental  si l'on veut bien revenir à ce que j'appelais mon point subjectif, c'est-à-dire  faire en sorte que toute notre démarche qui est - redisons-le - retrouver  l'universalité dans ce lieu unique de rencontre de l'intelligence du monde ; il  n'y en a qu'un, c'est l'Unesco et il n'y en aura qu'un, je crois, c'est l'Unesco.  Eh bien ! si nous voulons retrouver cette universalité, nous ne pouvons pas être  suspects de la moindre tentative de procès, au sens juridique du mot. Nous ne  faisons pas de procès. Nous demandons à être éclairés, c',est notre droit. Par  conséquent, il faut dire très clairement que notre démarche en aucun moment n'est  contentieuse, qu'en aucun moment elle ne correspond à la saisine d'une organi-  sation internationale. Je voudrais également ajouter, et c'est important, que, en  même temps et parallèlement, des négociations doivent continuer de se derouler  entre l'Unesco et les Etats-Unis d'Amérique sur ce point précis.
16.8 J'en arrive au troisième point qui concerne le personnel. Monsieur le  Président, je ne veux pas faire l'historique des problèmes que le personnel  international a eu dans diverses organisations, mais enfin il en a eu à l'Unesco  aussi. I1 y a donc des précédents. Des précédents à une époque que pour ma part - en tout cas, en tant 8ue démocrate - je considère de très mauvais aloi : en
1954-1955 , du temps du maccarthysme", on a licencié des fonctionnaires inter-  nationaux. Le Directeur général de l'époque l'a fait, sans s'embarrasser  d'ailleurs de beaucoup de forme. Je veux dire que c'est un peu l'honneur de cette  Conférence d'avoir organisé un aussi large débat, de se poser les questions, non  seulement au point de vue de l'opportunité mais au point de vue du droit, parce  que là encore - subjectivité ou pas - nous n'avons pas le droit de dire purement  et simplement : puisqu'un Etat s'est retiré nous licencions tous ses nationaux.  Non ! nous ne le dirons pas et nous ne le ferons pas. Ces précédents, nous n'en  voulons pas. Mais, si nous en voulions, que dit l'histoire de cette terrible  époque ? Après le licenciement des quatre fonctionnaires - et je crois me  souvenir que c'est un avocat français, aujourd'hui devenu ministre, qui avait  pris leur défense - ces fonctionnaires licenciés par le Directeur général ont  saisi des tribunaux administratifs et ils ont eu gain de cause. Mais le Directeur  général de l'époque s'entêtant, a saisi contre cette décision des tribunaux  administratifs la Cour internationale de justice, laquelle Cour internationale de  justice a donné raison au personnel licencié. Donc voilà un précédent qui me  paraît important. Tout cela pour dire que nous ne ferons rien - en tout cas, mon  pays - qui ne soit conforme et strictement conforme au droit, aux précédents et à  la Jurisprudence concernant la fonction publique internationale.
16.9 Aujourd'hui je crois que nous avons fait un travail qui respecte dans  une large mesure ces critères auxquels nous sommes très attachés. Sur la pro-  position qui nous est faite, je dois dire très franchement que je n'ai pas
28  grand-chose à ajouter ou à modifier, sauf peut-être un point de pure forme.  Monsieur le Président, mes chers collègues, il y a des assemblages de mots - mais  peut-être est-ce parce qu'ils sont traduits en français - qui sonnent très mal  aux oreilles des démocrates. Dans le projet qui nous est soumis, il est fait  mention du "pouvoir discrétionnaire du Directeur général". Le Directeur général a  un pouvoir qui lui est donné par les textes et je sais pour ma part qu'il s'y est  toujours conformé. Le pouvoir discrétionnaire - pardonnez-moi là encore d'évoquer  des souvenirs personnels - en droit français, c'est le pouvoir dont jouissent les  tribunaux, les présidents de tribunaux - tribunaux d'exception ou cours d'assises  quand, avant de faire le dernier pas vers la civilisation, la France pratiquait  encore la peine de mort - et ce pouvoir discrétionnaire, à tort ou à raison,  sonne comme un pouvoir sans critères, je ne dirai pas arbitraire mais cela veut  dire : sans se référer véritablement à des règles. Je pense que c'est la tra-  duction qu'on a voulu faire du texte du Règlement du personnel, où il est dit :  "à la discrétion du Directeur général", mais je dois dire que cela n'a pas le  même sens. Je préfère que l'on reprenne les termes mêmes du Règlement. Ou bien  encore, et je vais d'abord citer le texte qui nous intéresse [document
23 CI102 Add. et Corr., page 5, paragraphe 1, alinea (a)] : "(d) qu'en exerçant,  dans le cadre du Statut du personnel, le pouvoir discrétionnaire dont il est  investi pour le renouvellement des engagements venus à expiration, le Directeur  général devrait tenir compte, etc.", il me semble que si l'on se contentait de  mettre "le pouvoir dont il est investi", car le Directeur général est incontes-  tablement investi conformément aux textes, nous aurions - ce n'est pas seulement  une question de sémantique -, peut-être amélioré le texte. Cela dit, c'est une  suggestion, je n'en fais pas un amendement, je la soumets à la réflexion de mes  collègues et à celles du Directeur général lui-même, qui sait mieux que personne  que son pouvoir il le respecte, il le tient des textes, de la loi, de la  jurisprudence et des décisions que nous adoptons, et que nous adoptons en prenant  nos responsabilités.
16.10 I1 y a tout de même un amendement que je voudrais présenter, et je dois  dire, Monsieur le Président, que si, véritablement, d'aucuns s'opposent à cet  amendement, je voudrais en connaître les raisons. Je suis quelqu'un qu'on peut  convaincre - puisque j'ai essayé de convaincre très lon tem s - donc je veux  qu'on me dise pourquoi on refuserait un tel amendement. J ai essayé d'en parler  ici et là, on ne m'a pas dit non, on ne m'a pas vraiment dit oui, on m'a laissée  dans le vague. Aussi vais-je être très précise, en demandant à ceux qui  s'opposent à cet amendemment d'être aussi précis que j'essaie de l'être moi-même.  J'ajoute que ce sera mon seul amendement et que nous ne proposons par ailleurs  aucun changement au texte qui a été adopté par consensus. Je propose donc (et je  crois que certains pays comme le Mexique et l'Argentine l'ont déjà proposé), de  formuler comme suit le début du premier paragraphe du dispositif du projet de  résolution : "1. Décide, conformément au droit et à la jurisprudence en vigueur  sur la fonction publique internationale . . .". A partir de là, nous acceptons tout  le reste sans changement. Alors, je pose la question : si l'on ne veut pas de cet  amendement, c'est qu'on ne veut pas vraiment se conformer au droit et à la  jurisprudence en vigueur. Et cela, nous ne pouvons pas l'accepter, car, en plus,  tout le texte dit que nous nous conformons au Statut et au droit. L'adjonction de  ces termes me permet de dire, d'affirmer que nous nous y conformons et aussi  d'essayer de le faire croire, car je sais qu'entre, d'une part, ce qui se dit et  se décide ici, d'autre part, ce qui est rapporté par les médias à l'extérieur, il  y a un tel fossé, Monsieur le Président, que quelquefois je me demande si j'ai  bien assisté aux mêmes réunions dont il est rendu compte dans la presse. Et oui,  il y a aussi ce problème. Mais justement, pour couper court, écrivons que nous  serons conformes au droit et à la jurisprudence en vigueur sur la fonction  publique internationale. Et à ce moment-là personne, absolument personne, même  ceux qui véritablement ne sont pas bien intentionnés à notre égard - et malheu-  reusement ils sont nombreux à l'extérieur - eh bien, même ceux-là ne pourront  rien nous reprocher. Nous serons conformes au droit, à l'équité et à la juris-  prudence. Et je crois que l'honneur de cette Conférence, c'est de montrer  qu'entre 1955, où il y a eu des précédents, et aujourd'hui, la civilisation, le  progrès, la volonté des Etats que nous somes, ont fait que nous ne procédons  jamais à l'arbitraire. Cela me paraît très important.
16.11 Enfin, Monsieur le Président, un dernier mot. Je n'ai pas très bien  compris, - ou plutôt, j'ai fini par comprendre, mais je ne suis pas convaincue -  pourquoi nous devrions, comme certains de nos collègues l'ont dit, réserver notre  droit d'intervenir à nouveau. Nous avons un texte - je veux parler ici du texte  sur le personnel -, qui est très bon et qui réunit un consensus. I1 suffit de  faire un ajout, faisons-le sans débat. Je veux dire : renvoyons-le au Groupe de  rédaction et de négociation, car s'il est un domaine dans lequel le DNG est  compétent, c'est bien dans ce genre d'examen. Puisqu'il n'y a qu'un amendement,  ou quelques-uns, pourquoi rouvrir le débat ? Et lorsque nous reviendrons, parce  que là nous n'avons pas de texte, sur le texte qui sera dégagé à partir de  l'excellente consultation du Comité juridique, essayons à ce moment-là de  K P
1005    concentrer nos interventions sur des amendements et, plutôt que de les redéve-  lopper les uns après les autres, souvenons-nous qu'il existe un DNG, qu'il a des  fonctions extrêmement importantes, dont la moindre n'est pas d'éviter à la  Conférence générale de rouvrir des débats sur tel ou tel point. Car pourquoi  a-t-on saisi' le Comité juridique ? Ce n'est pas pour rouvrir un débat juridique  ici, c'est pour s'appuyer sur ses travaux et aller plus au fond. Pourquoi a-t-on  un DNG ? C'est justement pour que, lorsque le consensus s'est fait ou, je crois,  est presque sur le point de se faire, sur quelques points très précis comme ceux  que je viens d'énoncer, le DNG s'en saisisse et essaie de présenter à la Confé-  rence générale ce consensus auquel nous sommes tellement attachés.
16.12 Monsieur le Président, j'en ai terminé. Je propose donc l'amendement que  je viens de lire : "Conformément au droit et à la jurisprudence en vigueur sur la  fonction publique internationale". C'est la seule exigence, ou plus exactement le  seul souhait de la France et je suis peruadée que le consensus se fera là-dessus.  Quand aux problèmes du statut d'observateur et de la consultation de la Cour  internationale de justice de La Haye sur le paiement de l'annuité par les  Etats-Unis, je crois que nous devons arriver très vite à un consensus. En tant  que membre du DNG, Monsieur le Président, j'offre très volontiers mes services  pour travailler et économiser à la Conférence générale de très longs débats. Je  vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
17. Le PRESIDENT :  Brésil.  Je remercie la déléguée de la France et je donne la parole au délégué du
18.1 Mr RACHE DE ALMEIDA (Brazil):  Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, my delegation wishes to thank the  Algerian and Jamaican delegations for the efforts they have made to reflect in  the draft resolution in paragraph 25 of document 23 C/102 Add. and Corr. the  different views advanced here and in the Executive Board on the actual and  potential consequences of the withdrawal of Member States from the Organization  as regards the situation of Unesco's personnel. FJe wish to thank also the Legal  Committee through its distinguished Chairman, Ambassador Guellouz, for the  thorough examination it has undertaken and presented to us in document 23 C/LEG/5  of the legal aspects of those questions. I will try to comment very briefly on  both the administrative and legal sides of these questions.
18.2 Before doing so, however, let me express the view that the emphasis  placed on these questions is above all a sad reflection of Unesco's present situ-  ation. My delegation had hoped that the General Conference could deal with these  questions deriving from the withdrawal of Member States in a more expeditious and  non-controversial way, instead of bickering over legal and administrative tech-  nicalities. We should be here devoting our attention to the substantive issues of  education, science, culture and communication, which constitute the very essence  of this Organization. Unfortunately, this has not been the case, and I feel com-  pelled to place on record my delegation's disappointment.
18.3 My delegation supports the draft resolution as it stands in document 23  C/102 Add. and Corr., subject to minor modifications. We consider firstly that  reference should be made to the need to strive for the establishment of our  Organization's universality, as specifically set out in the Executive Board's  relevant decision. Secondly, we would favour the inclusion of language indicating  that the implementation of the resolution that we shall adopt eventually should  not lead to discrimination against the nationals of any States serving this  Organization on the mere ground of nationality.
18.4 As to whether our Organization should or should not resort to the Inter-  national Court of Justice, we have stated on different occasions that courts do  exist to solve situations such as the one we are facing and that such initiatives  should not be construed as another aggravation to the parties concerned. The  question we face, however, is whether it will be timely, practical and efficient  to pursue such paths without exploring further possibilities of settling this  question by other means. Should we not continue to try to solve the differences  between the United States and Unesco by negotiation? Should not the next Chairman  of the Executive Board perhaps be entrusted with such a mandate on the Organiz-  ation's behalf? Such an approach might even have the advantage of expediting  matters, for the proposed consultation of the International Court of Justice  would tend to drag along leaving the whole question standing for another year.  This would, we fear, lead to further division among us. It would be unwise  perhaps, Mr President, to ignore the serious political undertones involved in  having recourse to the International Court of Justice without previously exhaust-  ing all possibilities of a negotiated solution. Alternatively, we could envisage  the possibility of following the two courses of action simultaneously. More  specifically, the General Conference could entrust the Executive Board with the  task of formalizing the question to be laid before the Court, while at the same
1006    time pursuing through its Chairman or a group of Board members negotiations with  the United States with a view to settling the matter on an amicable basis. This  latter possibility would seem to my delegation to be the more advisable, from  both the political and legal standpoints.
18.5 Regarding the status, situation or condition of observer, we are of the  opinion that no distinction should be made between States that have left the  Organization and those that intend to join it eventually. In this connection,  while we appreciate the work carried out by the Legal Committee, we have serious  doubts as to the legality and clarity of the recommendations contained in para-  graph 8 of document 23 C/LEG/5 as it is presently phrased. Apart from being some-  what questionable from a legal standpoint, it could perhaps lead to subjective  interpretations detrimental both to the States concerned and to the Organization.  Indeed, Sir, how can one judge or interpret paragraph 8(a) (ii), where it is pro-  posed to demand from a State that has withdrawn that it should endeavour to pre-  serve the universal character of the Organization? Does one demand that the State  concerned pledge to return to the Organization? And if so, when? Would it not  suffice to retain 8(b) as a sufficient condition for the State desiring to par-  ticipate as observer in some activities of the Organization? As to 8(d), it seems  to us to have the paradoxical effect of prejudging the outcome of a legal query -  the same query we are being asked to submit to the International Court of  Justice. As far as this question of observer status is concerned, Mr President,  my delegation tends to believe that we may be unnecessarily over-complicating  things. To our minds, this question has already been settled hy the decision of  the Executive Board on the btisis of the understanding arrived at by the Director-  General an2 the State concerned, as referred to in paragraph 5.11 of document 23  C/LEG/S. We need neither add to nor subtract from the Board's. decision, which  could be made applicable erga omnes.
18.6 These are the remarks the delegation of Brazil deems opportune to make  at this stage in our deliberations. I offer them in the same spirit of concili-  ation that has guided us throughout the difficult and sometimes painful debates  that followed the announcement of the United States departure. We share the hope  that such a spirit of conciliation will prevail. Any other attitude that the  General Conference might be led to take on this question might render more dif-  ficult the solution of the very questions it is trying to solve. That would  certainly not be in the interest of any of us, much less of this Organization we  all cherish and wish to strengthen.
18.7 With regard to the question of the procedures to be followed for the  negotiation of our final text, my delegation firmly believes that the matter  should be entrusted to the Drafting and Negotiation Group, as advocated by  previous speakers, especially the representatives of Mexico and Argentina. It  would be up to the Group to decide eventually whether it would wish to set up a  small working group of its members in order to expedite the actual task of draft-  ing a text likely to generate consensus. Any other procedure, especially the  establishment by the plenary of ad hoc working groups, would, I fear, diminish  the role of the Drafting and Negotiation Group and bring about parallel negoti-  ating channels to the detriment of the cohesion, harmony and orderliness of our  deliberations as a whole.
18.8 Mr President, the present debate clearly indicates the need for the  drafting of an amendment to Unesco's Constitution along the lines of the one  originally proposed by the Philippines. We sincerely hope that such an amendment  will be adopted for it would solve most, if not all, of the problems with which  we are presently concerned - although, of course, we would hope that it would  never have to be applied.
18.9 Finally, Mr President, the Brazilian delegation has no difficulty in  supporting the amendment just presented by the delegate of France, which we think  could be helpful to the progress of our work. Thank you very much.
19. Le PRESIDENT :
1 Espagne.
(20.1) Mr CARRIED0 (Spain) (Translation from the Spanish) :  Thank you very much, Mr President. Allow me, as previous speakers have done,  to express my gratitude to the members of the Legal Committee and its Chairman for the  competence with which they have performed their task of examining the questions
1009    entrusted to the Committee, which are reflected in document 23 C/LEG/S. My gratitude  also extends, of course, to the representatives of the Administrative Commission and  its Chairman, who have virtually made it possible to obtain the basis for a definition  of a consensus as presented in document 23 CI102 Add. and Corr.
(20.2) Mr President, I shall deal with the three questions before us one after the  other: in the first place the 'observer capacity' of a State that has withdrawn from  the Organization. Like many of the previous speakers, we see no legal reason in prin-  ciple for treating States that have withdrawn differently from those that have never  been members of the Organization; but even beyond any juridical reason, we have doubts  about the practical reasons. Is there any practical reason for introducing unequal  treatment of States in this matter? In our view the exact opposite is the case, unless  we are to indulge in absolutely undesirable and unjustifiable judgements of intention  and in negative and presumptive imputations of intention. If we are not to act in this  way how can we deny a request from a State for facilities relating to observer  capacity? How can we deny that this State is actively displaying interest, when the  contrary cannot be proved and when such interest, per se, is to the advantage of the  Organization, beneficial to that State's co-operation with the Organization and con-  ducive to maintaining the bridges built, with a view to re-establishing the principle  of universality for which we all long?
(20.3) in that connection, the statements contained in Parts A and B of the Legal  Committee's second report on the subject in fact have the merit of making the implicit  explicit, unless, I insist, the contrary can be shown in the State's own petition and  the Organization's acceptance of it. It is just as obvious that, as stated in subpara-  graph (c) of the above-mentioned paragraph 8, any State concerned should logically  bear the costs arising from the facilities granted. Subparagraph (d) of the same para-  graph 8, however, we find much more questionable, because it says nothing that is not  already stated in the Constitution. In actual fact, however, what appears to be in  question is the interpretation of the Constitution in that regard. We therefore fully  share the previous speaker's view, that subparagraph (d) either has no real or practi-  cal effect or actually prejudges the legal doubt that seems to exist. In short, we  will say that the basic criterion for any resolution that the Conference might formu-  late on this subject - and I must add that it would be unpardonable for such a resol-  ution not to be arrived at by consensus - should be non-discrimination between States,  a principle that could be suitably specified and explained once certain terms that may  be useful in defining more precisely this general principle of non-discrimination con-  tained in Parts A, B and C of the Legal Committee's second report have been refined  and polished.
(20.4) The General Conference's eventual decision could then consist in entrusting  the Executive Board with the task of determining the grancing of observer facilities  on the basis, in principle, of the criterion of non-discriminatinn among States and in  the light of the following considerations: (a) that in all cases account should be  taken of the interests of the Organization - rather than 'protecting' them, a term  that implies the idea of enemies - and the maintenance of its normal activities;  (b) that such facilities should be devised in such a way as to promote the univer-  sality of the Organization; (c) that when requesting those facilities, the State con-  cerned should express its readiness to promote co-operation with the Organization; and  (d) that the State concerned should, of course, bear the costs arising from the  facilities granted.
(20.5) Spain believes that, on this basis and in the light of these considerations,  we may gather all the elements for consensus on an issue which, as the previous  speaker said, should perhaps have been solved by the decision at which the Executive  Board had previously arrived, in the light of the judicious arrangements suggested at  that time by the Director-General. Finally, the question should only be one of the  universal application of the decision taken in this particular case.
(20.6) As regards the desirability of requesting the International Court of Justice  to deliver an advisory opinion on the financial obligations of a Member State which  withdraws in the course of a budgetary period, I would like to confirm here what Spain  said at the fourth extraordinary session of the Executive Board. In our legal  advisers' opinion, such a State is not obliged to pay the part of its quota corres-  ponding to any period beyond the time at which it ceases to belong to the Organiz-  ation, once the constitutional procedures have been finalized. Now, it is clear that  there are other interpretations, and that has given rise to this legal controversy. In  such circumstances, we naturally have no objection to the matter being referred to the  Court, since the Court is one of the pillars of the United Nations system, and is  therefore responsible for defining the objective law governing that system. However,  it is clear that a simple advisory opinion is not sufficient and it is also clear that  the Court can do no more than deliver such an opinion.
(20.7) Consequently, it is for the Organization itself, with its eyes on the future,  to adopt the appropriate measures to fill in the loophole now apparent in our Consti-  tution. The matter before us thus highlights even more the need - as already pointed
1010    out - to study and, if that seems suitable, to approve an amendment to the Consti-  tution, in line with the suggestion originally made by the Philippines, later reworded  by Jamaica, and which we understand has fortunately not been removed from the agenda  of our General Conference. Let us, however, not lose sight of the fact that if an  amendment of this kind were to be approved - and we hope it will be - the wider ques-  tion would be resolved, the de jure principle would have been established and from  that moment on what we would be taking to the Court would be less the interpretation  of a general de jure principle, with widespread repercussions than, de facto and in  practice, a particular case with limited consequences. In such an event, if the amend-  ment - which in our opinion is necessary - were to be approved, we should perhaps ask  ourselves if the advantages of referring a petition no longer relating to a general  question but to a specific de facto case to the Court, would not be outweighed by its  disadvantages.
(20.8) I repeat that in any case we see no objection to referring the case to the  International Court of Justice nor will we oppose it. But I also repeat that when the  time comes to decide to refer the case to the Court, account should be taken of  whether the above-mentioned amendment has been approved or not, because then the  manner in which the question is formulated should be substantially different.
(20.9) I conclude, Mr President, with a reference to the extremely praiseworthy  achievements of the Administrative Commission, which are reflected in document
23 C/102 Add. and Corr., as I said at the beginning. In this regard, I should only  like to make two observations, which are in no way aimed at upsetting the consensus  reached. Firstly, to declare that in our view the entire draft resolution considered  should in no event lead to discrimination against the personnel by applying the sole  criterion of nationality or of their governments' political decisions. I wish to  affirm categorically here that international civil servants, the servants of the  international organizations, are not servants of the Member States.
(20.10) My second observation refers to paragraph 2 of the draft resolution which  reads as follows: 'Invites the Director-General to study further possible means of  resolving the extraordinary situation and to report to the Executive Board at its
124th session'. In this connection I would simply like to confess to a certain per-  plexity regarding the meaning of this paragraph. In point of fact, in subpara-  graphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of paragraph 1, the General Conference decides, and I  underline the word decides, on the criteria to be applied in this matter, taking  account of the Director-General's discretionary powers within the Staff Regulations.  When one considers the provisions which this session of the Conference could approve  if it were fully to assume its responsibilities, one wonders what useful purpose could  be served by inviting the Director-General to study further possible means of resolv-  ing this extraordinary situation. Either the means and criteria are those contained in  the preceding subparagraphs of the draft, in which case the reference is superfluous,  or we are talking about other means, in which case the draft in question must be in-  complete, which means that the General Conference at this session has not fully met  its responsibilities. As we do not think this to be the case, nor are there any other  criteria to be considered, because had there been one or another of us would have  requested that they be included, all we can logically invite the Director-General to  do in paragraph 2 is to report to the Executive Board on the implementation of this  resolution, should it be approved, without imposing, as the representative of Mexico  rightly pointed out, extra tasks on the Director-General, such as devising new means  or criteria not already contained in the resolution.
(20.11) Despite appearances, these two observations are concerned more with form than  substance. This also goes for the suggestion put forward by the delegates of Mexico,  Argentina and France, which I endorse, to include a reference to international juris-  prudence on the international civil service. All these difficulties could be solved by  a more appropriate wording that would encourage everyone to accept it fully and with-  out reservations and without disrupting the consensus. I also firmly believe that  consensus is also perfectly feasible with regard to the other two questions. I there-  fore propose that once the debate is over and the various positions and their finer  points have been analysed, the Drafting and Negotiation Group should be entrusted, in  the general context of its work and without setting up further bodies or groups - here  I digress to say that I shall be in favour of introducing Ockham's razor, i.e. the  principle of refraining from the unnecessary multiplication of entities - with the  task of studying formulae that can be generally accepted, which are absolutely vital  for the questions now before us. Thank you, Mr President.
21. Le PRESIDENT :  la République islamique d' Iran.
22.1 Mr MAHALLATI (Islamic Republic of Iran):  Thank you, Mr President. Since many points of view have already been  expressed about the subject in question, I shall try to limit my intervention  strictly to the views of my government on the three main subjects. I should first  Je remercie le délégué de l'Espagne et je donne la- parole au délégué de
1011    express our appreciation to the Chairmen of the Legal Committee and Administra-  tive Commission for the valuable documents they have provided. Many valuable  views also have been expressed by delegations in this plenary which have made the  subject under discussion quite clear.
22.2 Nevertheless, most of the interventions were unfortunately focused  mainly on the legal and administrative aspects of the problem. As Mr Thiam of  Senegal eloquently explained in his intervention, we should not forget the  political aspect of the matter, which is in our view the main aspect since it is  a fact that the motivation of the State that has left Unesco has been merely  political in nature. It is a fact that, in recent years, the United States has  not been on good terms not only with Unesco but also with other important inter-  national organizations. The United States has not found the trend of this Organi-  zation's work satisfactory because it has not followed the lines that this  country wished in all political, economic and cultural aspects. Developing  countries have exercised more freedom and independence in international organiz-  ations, and this is where the main problem, in the view of the self-appointed  trustees of international organizations, has arisen. It is no surprise therefore  that the very State which has withdrawn from Unesco has threatened the United  Nations Organization, just before the present General Assembly opened, with a  reduction of 5 per cent in its share of contributions. UNCTAD and IL0 have also  been subjected to the same threats and pressures in the past. I want to conclude,  Mr President, that we should be extremely careful in our decisions on the matters  in question because we will establish a precedent. This precedent might help  other organizations or might harm them. It depends on whether our decision, what-  ever it might be, reflects submission to a pressure exerted on our Organization  by financial leverage. If we make this particular case successful for that State,  I promise, Mr President, that very soon we will witness that this very same  financial leverage will be used against many other international organizations.
22.3 Mr President, based upon the aforesaid discussion our views on the three  main questions are as follows. Firstly, on the question of observer status, we  believe that an advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice must be  sought. Secondly, granting this status to a member which has left the Organiz-  ation without any justification creates numerous problems. It is understood that,  in the practice of international organizations, this status is normally granted  to those parties which are willing to become acquainted with the activities of  that organization and ta decide whether they want to be a full member at a later  stage. This is the raison.d'etre of observer status. The State which has left  Unesco is well acquainted with the works of this Organization; and, therefore,  its leaving the Organization meant that its presence within it no longer served  that State. Consequently, seeking observer status is quite meaningless. Moreover,  it will encourage others also to misuse this status whenever the views of the  majority of Member States do not conform with theirs.
22.4 On the matter of staff reductions, Mr President, we are of the view that  if any decisions in this regard are made pursuant to budget cuts, the Organiz-  ation should start with the staff who are nationals of non-Member States. The  fixed-term contracts of nationals of non-Member States should not be renewed, and  such a decision will not contradict the universality principal. If a State which  has withdrawn from Unesco is not willing to pay its share for 1985, the very same  State should bear on its shoulders the problem of Unesco staff nationals of that  State. In our view, Mr President, renewal of the contracts of the staff nationals  of the State that has withdrawn from Unesco should be interconnected with the  behaviour of that State in fulfilling its financial obligation to the Organiz-  ation. However, we do not deny the discretionary authority of the Director-  General to make exceptions where he considers it to be in the Organization's  interest. Universality is definitely an important principle which should be  preserved in our Organization. But if for the sake of this principle we make too  large a concession to a single State at the expense of the view of the great  majority, I think that we will have contradicted our main task; because, in that  case, physical universality will have been maintained at the price of the real  universality which is, in our view, the freedom of the Organization to pursue the  aspirations of the remaining Member States. I thank YOU, Mr President.
23. Le PRESIDENT :  parole au délégué du Zaïre.
24.1 M. AKWESI (Zaïre) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. La délégation du Zaire souhaite faire les  observations suivantes concernant les deux rapports qui nous sont soumis. Mais  auparavant elle tient à féliciter les présidents et les membres des commissions,  singulièrement la Commission administrative aux travaux et aux débats de laquelle  le Zaïre a pris part.  Je remercie le délégué de la République islamique d'Iran et je donne la
24.2 J'examinerai d'abord, Monsieur le Président, le rapport du Comité  juridique. Pour ce qui est de la qualité d'observateur d'un Etat membre qui s'est  retiré de l'organisation, le Zaïre, après avoir analysé toutes les considéra-  tions - judicieuses par ailleurs - émises par le Comité juridique, trouve que le  problème est plutôt d'ordre politique. Politiquement posée, la question devrait  viser à préserver le caractère universel de l'organisation et à favoriser le plus  possible la coopération que 1'Etat qui s'est retiré désire entretenir avec  l'organisation. Ceia impliquerait à notre avis, avis qui est conforme aux  considérations des alinéas 8 (a), (b) et (c) du rapport du Comité juridique, qye  l'on accorde les facilités usuelles à cet Etat et que, d'autre part, cet Etat ait  l'obligation logique et la correction politique d'assumer les dépenses qui  découleraient des facilités qui lui seraient ainsi octroyées. Pour ce faire,  Monsieur le Président, la Conférence générale devrait autoriser le Directeur  général à étudier, de concert avec 1'Etat concerné, le niveau de ces dépenses et  à faire rapport au Conseil exécutif pour qu'il prenne une décision.
24.3 Par ailleurs, la Conférence générale peut, à notre avis, autoriser le  Conseil exécutif à formuler une demande d'avis à la Cour internationale de  justice au sujet de la question fondamentale des obligations financières d'un  Etat membre qui se retire de l'organisation au cours d'un exercice budgétaire.  Nous pensons, Monsieur le Président, que dans l'état actuel des choses, cet avis  de la Cour, quel qu'il soit et quelles que soient les réactions qu'il suscitera,  est devenu indispensable et inévitable si l'on veut clarifier toute action future  du Directeur général et faire baisser la tension, de manière à favoriser la  coopération et le retour à une situation normale. C'est, pensons-nous, Monsieur  le Président, un devoir que la Conférence générale doit avoir le courage poli-  tique d'assumer.
24.4 J'en viens maintenant, Monsieur le Président, au rapport de la Commis-  sion administrative aux travaux de laquelle nous avons pris part. Ici, je serai  tres bref. Je me bornerai à redire ce que souhaite le Zaïre : si une compression  des programmes était décidée par la Conférence générale à la suite de la réduc-  tion des ressources financières, la compression concomitante du personnel et le  recrutement ultérieur éventuel de nouveau personnel devraient, selon nous, être  effectués sous la responsabilité - je dirais responsabilité discrétionnaire, mais  j 'en conviens avec Mme Halimi, nous pouvons dire sous la responsabilité et à la  discrétion - du Directeur général, dans le respect de trois principes : l'uni-  versalité de l'organisation, la fonction publique internationale et la répar-  tition géographique équitable. Cela étant Monsieur le Président, le Zaïre  souscrit au projet de résolution figurant au paragraphe 25 du document
23 CI102 Add. et Corr., qui est le résultat d'un compromis difficile et délicat  et sur lequel nous nous réserverions le droit de revenir s'il venait à être  amendé. Je précise ici tout de suite que nous sommes pleinement d'accord avec la  proposition de Mme Halimi qui est plutôt une correction et une clarification.  Hormis cette proposition, nous pourrions, disais-je, être amenés à revenir sur ce  projet de résolution s'il recevait des interprétations dépassant le cadre du  consensus. A notre avis, Monsieur le Président, ce projet donne enfin au  Directeur général un cadre précis de pincipes pour gérer le personnel de l'or-  ganisation en cette période critique, qui, nous le souhaitons, sera bientôt  terminée.
24.5 Enfin, Monsieur le Président, nous sommes favorables à la suggestion  tendant à créer un groupe réduit, représentatif des six groupes électoraux, qui  serait chargé d'examiner notamment le rapport du Comité juridique. Vu la com-  position représentative et politique de ce groupe, nous pensons, Monsieur le  Président, qu'il faudrait essentiellement lui confier le mandat de convenir de  l'opportunité politique de prendre les décisions juridiques suggérées par le  Comité juridique. Je vous remercie.
25. Le PRESIDENT :  Soudan.  Je remercie le délégué du Zaïre et je donne la parole au délégué du
(26.1) Mr BAKR1 (Sudan) (Tramlation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. I promise that 1 will not speak for long, but I  should like to begin by thanking the Chairmen of the Legal Committee and the Admin-  istrative Commission for the objectivity - which I can vouch for personally - of the  spirit and the letter of the reports they have submitted to us. I believe that the  Conference should not only take note of these reports hut approve them as weli.
(26.2) Eír President, all that can be said has been said, and there is nothing more  for me to add to this exhaustive discussion, in which many speakers have presented a  variety of points of view both for and against. We do not doubt the sincerity of their  words, nor do we doubt that their statements have been prompted by the desire to  serve the higher interests of this Organization and to secure a prosperous future for  it. I believe that, God willing, the Organization will win safely through despite its  present problems and the misgivings which have been expressed about it.
(26.3) Mr President, in the Executive Board, Sudan approved the draft resolution now  under discussion in the form in which it appears in document 23 C/93, and the fact  that Sudan was among those who submitted the draft resolution at that time is an indi-  cation of its approval. We are now in the process of submitting, jointly with the  Algerian Delegation, P draft resolution which we hope will bring this discussion to a  close. For this reason, Mr President, I did not ask for the floor in order to explain  our position, with which you are already familiar, but in order to open a dialogue  with the distinguished members of the Conference and to make a few observations -  brief ones, as promised.
(26.4) My first observation, Mr President, is that we are not speaking from a  position of weakness, as we have unlimited confidence in IJnesco and its mission; on  the contrary, we believe that crises such as this serve to affirm Unesco's solidarity  and the jmportance of its world mission. I repeat that we are in no way speaking from  a position of weakness, and I hope that this clear in everyone's mind. My second  observation, Mr President, is that our words are not prompted by enmity or any desire  to seek revenge; for Unesco, as many speakers have pointed out, is not the property of  its Member States alone, but that of the whole world, and the countries that have  withdrawn from the Organization or that are contemplating withdrawal must bear sole  responsibility before history for departing from true universalism. We are members of  the United Nations, even though we do not blindly worship that Organization with all  its faults. As evidence of thie, Mr President, I need only mention that we have been  against the use of the veto power and many other actions that take place there; but  this has not led us to withdraw from the United Nations. Rather, we have preferred to  stay and criticize these matters from within. My third observation, Mr President, is  that Sudan was among the countries which, in the Executive Board, approved the grant-  ing of observer status to the Member State that has withdrawn, despite the absence of  resolutions or precedents in that regard; this should substantiate our good inten-  tions. Moreover, I believe that of all those who have spoken today and all those who  spoke in the general policy debate, there is not one who has failed to request that  country to change its position and return to universalism.
(26.5) Mr President, we agree that the principles outlined by the Legal Committee in  paragraph 8 of its report should be the basis for negotiations; but we believe that an  important and essential principle was not mentioned in that report, namely that co-  operation with the Organization should be marked by an attitude of seriousness. Any  country that requests observer status should demonstrate - not necessarily in material  form - that it is serious in making that request and that, at the very least, it  intends eventually to return to membership of this Organization. I do not know whether  this condition can be met by expressions of good will, declarations or positive  behaviour alone; I think that those who speak on behalf of the Member State that has  withdrawn, on this or on any other occasion, should give us a clearer manifestation of  such an attitude than appea.red in the letter in which the notice of withdrawal was  initially given,
(26.6) Mr President, in the draft resolution which, I believe, has qctAally been  placed before this Conference, we request the General Conference to give jclear direc-  tives to the Executive Board and to the Director-General instructing them to study the  possibility of establishing rules, perhaps even legal provisions, that will clarify  the rights and obligations of observers as well as the rights and obligations of the  Organization. This should be done. As regards the matter of seeking an advisory  opinion from the International Court of \Tustice, I believe that the discussion on this  subject has gone beyond the bounds of the framework within which it should properly be  considered. This subject should be considered with flexibility because, as all jurists  know, the main work of the International Court of Justice consists of delivering  advisory opinions and not rendering judgements. It is quite normal, and shou1.d sur-  prise no one, that an organization of the United Nations system, or on an organization  not belonging to that system, should request a legal opinion on some specific issue  without arousing the controversy that has raged around the present subject. Mr Presi-  dent, I respect those who say, 'Do not distract yourselves with this matter; devote  your efforts, rather, to furthering the mission of Unesco'. I am sure that those who  speak in these terms at meetings of this Organization deserve our esteem and respect.  I must ask, however, Mr President, who it is that has sought to do the distracting,  znd who it is that has introduced all these complications? Most assuredly, it was not  we who did this, Mr President. We are in fact occupied with the task of furthering the  mission of this Organization. I have also heard a strange viewpoint put forward to the  effect that the opinion expressed by the Legal Committee is a legal opinicn and as  such merits our approval, but that we should also consider the political aspects of  this question. This should make it clear, Mr President, which of us it is that wishes  to politicize the question. We are not the ones who are doing this. We asked for a  legal opinion and that opinion was given. Now some people have turned around to say  that politics cannot be avoided. I do not know whether this opinion signifies the  beginning of a change in the position of those who have expressed it and that they now  believe that there is no avoiding politics and politicization in this Organization, or  whether their statement is prompted by other motives.
(26.7) Mr President, we have the right to refer this matter to the International  Court of Justice for an advisory opinion, and our purpose in doing so is to obtain. an  interpretation of the Constitution of the Organization and its provisions. This matter  requires some time; accordinglv, I do not think that it can be resolved by us at this  General Conference or by an ad hoc committee or working group. I say this with all.  respect for the opinions of those who have called for the establishment of such a com-  mittee or working group. I believe that the Executive Board and the Director-General  should be entrusted with the task of determining the substance of the required consul-  tation and submitting an appropriate application at whatever time and in whatever way  they deem most suitable.
(26.8) Kr President, as I said before, I want to be brief; but I must say a word  about the report of the Administrative Commission. We welcome the agreement on draft  resolution 23 C/ADM/DR.9 and the draft resolution put forward in the report. We  believe, however, that adopting a humane attitude is in no way incompatible with the  higher interests of the Organization. Mr President, in the developing countries, just  as in the rich countries, we do not look upon international civil servants merely as  people out to make a living, but also as bearers of a mission, and we believe that  they join the Organization, in order to defend its principles as well. Just as civil  services in our countries have become transformed into national services, the inter-  national civil service should also be transformed into a vocation and should not be  discussed only in terms of numbers and years but also in terms of its vital spirit.  This what I wanted to say at this point. The precedents, laws and regulations which  govern the international civil service are well known, and we want them to remain as  they are. Mr President, I hope I have not spoken too long, but I do thank you and hope  that my words will help to keep the dialogue going in this distinguished Conference,  which Mrs Halimi described as a forum unique in the world for joint reflection and  dialogue. Thank you, Mr President.  i,
27. Le PRESIDENT :  République socialiste soviétique d'Ukraine.  Je remercie le délégué du Soudan et je donne la parole au délégué de la
28.4 PaccMaTpHsaeMaR HaMu npO6JIeMa ~ a ~ p a r n s a e ~  MHoro B ~ ~ H M O C B R ~ ~ H H ~ I X  ~ O n p o -   COB: iIOnMTMYeCKHX, EOpHnHqeCKHX H anMHHHCTPaTHBHbiX. KaK Mbl y6eHHJIHCb, KaXnbIR M3  HHX Tpe6yeT BHMMaTeJlbHOrO PaCCMOTPeHHR, Y T O ~ ~ I  CneJlaTb RCHbIe BblBOSIb1 Pi npenJlOXeHHR.
28.5 Ecnn FOBOpHTb O nOnHTHYeCKOfi CTOpOHe, TO efi yXe 6biJIa naHa COOTBeTCTBYmLUaR  BOnbmHHCTBO npH3HaJ10r YTO aKUMR CmA HaHOCMT yuep6 MHOTOCTOPOHHMM @OpMaM COTPYDHH-  YeCTBa H ilOnpbIBaeT npHHUkin YHHBePCanbHOCTMI Ha KOTOPOM CTPOHTCR BCR CMCTeMa 06%-  e,QiiHeHHbiX Hauwfi.Bbixon H3 H)HECKO, OnHofi U3 KpynHefiUMX MeXnPaBMTeJlbCTBeHHblX OpraHH-
3aUHÜ - 3TO npRMOR Bb130B MeXnyHapOnHOMy COO6meCTBy.
28.6 CeñYaC! R XOqY OCTaHOBHTbCR Ha iûpMnHYeCKHX aCiieKT¿ìX 3TOR npO6JIeMbI. KaK  oueHKa Ha c e c c m x  McnonHnTenbHoro coBeTa M B xone 0 6 t ~ e n o nn~~sec~oR nscKyccm.  B n m o  n3 nomana iûpunwsecKoro KoMmeTa, BOnpOC o abixone rocynapcTsa-sneHa 113  KIHECKO wnu npyrnx opra~a3auwR eue He p a 3 p a 6 o ~ a ~ .  Bo sperm nonroToBKn YcTasa C03-  naTentI RIHECJSO He Mornn npennonoxnTb, YTO B oTnaneHHoR nepcnemwae MoxeT BOJHMK-  HyTb nOnO6HaR npo6nema. BHnHMO ~ O B T O M Y  B YcTase H He npenycMaTpmaeTca aKKpenilTa-  rIneHaMM KIHECKO, HO npmisrna pemeane o BbIxone. Mbi Xe paccMaTpwsaeM cnyYaR, Korna  Bbimenmee 143 iûHECKO rocynapcTBo caMo onpenenano cBoe OTHomeHne K  TOR opra~n3aunu.
28.7 OnHaIco OCTaBHM Ha BpeMR paccMoTpeHne Bonpoca o ~ O B M U M H  3 ~ 0 r o  rocynapcTsa  B OTHomeHMn HameR O p r a ~ n 3 a u ~ n .  P e u  ceRsac nneT 06 onpeneneaaw npaa n 06R3aHHOc-  TeM Opra~n3auns n rocynapcTsa-YneHa, KoTopoe n3 Hee Bbixonm. B03HMKaeT B O ~ ~ O C  o  npenocTaaneann cTaTyca ~a6nmna~eneR.  UMR npH H)HECKO HH FOCYnaPCTB, He RBJIR€ûQHXCR YneHaMn, HH I'OCynapCTBr KOTOpble 6bInH
3neCb CCblJiKH Ha BeHCKYM KOHBeHUMmI Ha Haüi B3FnRIn;, He MOFYT 6bITb ITpMMeHUMbl K Cny-  Yam, KOTOPblR Mbl PaCCMaTpHBaeM, B CHny TOFOI YTO y HaCr KaK yXe OTMeYaJIOCb Bbimel  HOCTRX Opra~w3aunn n Bb1xonRuero rocynapcTaa-qneea He pa3pa60TaHbl. ilpnBonmmHeca  B O B H H K J I ~  ó e c n p e u e n e ~ ~ ~ a s ,  spe3~b1saR~as c m y a u m .
28.9 HOJIXeH CKa3äTbr HaM CTPaHHO CJlbliüaTb aiTeJIJIRUMH K BeHCKOR KOHBeHUHU ripen-  DOKYMeHT, He FOBOp5i yXe O er0 paTH@HKaUPïH. Mbl iiOHilMaeM, YTO B AaHHOM CJlysae OHH  BbIHyXneHbl npU 6eraTb IC JlM6bIM AOKYMeHTaM, KOTOpble naBaJlH 661 XOTb KaKOR-HH6Ynb l'IO-  BOnr 3a KOTOPbIR MOXHO 66130 6bI 3aUeiiWTbCR.
6bI pei'yJiHpOBaJlH BeCb KOMiIJleKC BOiiPOCOBr CBR3aHHblX C yKa3aHHOfi npO6neMOR. Mbl CYH-  cTaBnTenefi Tex rocynapcT8, KoTopbIe no cnx nop He cosnil HyxHblM naxe nonnxcaTb  TOT  TaeM, YTO FeaepanbHan KoH@epeHunn caMa snpase BocnonHnTb 3TOT HeqocTaToK.
28.11 Ecnn peqb nneT 06 yYpemneHuH cTaTyca ~ a 6 n m n a ~ e n e R ~  TO Mbi HU B K O ~ R  Mepe  He MOXeM COi'JiaCWTbCR C TeM, YT06bi CTaBMTb Bbimenmee 113 OpraHH3aUHH rOCynapCTB0 B  PaBHOe ïiOJIOXKeHHe C POCYnaPCTBaMH-YneHaMH, Bbl~OJlHR€ûlUHMH 06R3aHHOCTHI B03JiaraeMbIe  Ha HAX 3THM YJIeHCTBOM. Ha Ham B3rJiRLlr B nyHKTaX 7 H 8 ynOMRHYTOr0 Bblüie AOKyMeHTa  KIpHnuuecKoro xoMmeTa, rne pesb uneT 06 o6max p a m a x  H npmunnax coTpynHwuecTsa  rOCynapcTBa, yqpexnammero Mnccnm ~ a ó n m n a ~ e n e R ,  c O p r a ~ w s a u ~ e R ,  conepmaTcsr ~eo6xo-  ZIHMble 3JieMeHTbI nn5? npaBHJibHOr0 nOHHMaHHR H TOJlKOBaHHZ 3TOr0 nOJIOXíeHMB.
28.12 MbI, B npuxiuune, pasnenae~ BrmonbI DpwnwuecKoro KoMuTeTa B TOM, YTO KacaeT-  npocy O @uHaHcoBbix 0 6 ~ 3 a ~ e n b c ~ s a x  yxonnmero rocynapcTsa. Hama neneraum pasnenrre~  wnnaswñ no a ~ o ~ y  BO~POCY Mbi He nmaera. Ecnu FeHepanbHas KoH@epeHuusi coYTeT ~ e o 6 -   CR 06pa~~eHMR B MeXnyHapOnHbIft Cyn i'ïOnyYeHliR KOHCYJIbTaTWBHOrO 3aKJlIQYeHilR no BO-  MHeHEIe TeX neJIeraTOBI KOTOpbIe CYEITaH)TI YTO KOHCYJlbTaTWBHOe 3aK~H)YeHkle MOFnO 6bl  PasBenTb HalUH COMHeHWR A nPORCHWTb CSáTyaUilH) no 3T0ñ lTpO6JleMe. npaBna, oc06b1x  XOllWMbiM iïpWHRTb PeDIeHile no 3TOMY BOnPOCYI TO Mbl er0 6yneM FOTOBbI n0nnepXaTb. npU  PaCCMOTpeHkíw ZSOIîJlana K)pUnwYeCKO??O KOMIITeTa He TPYZHO nOHRTbr YTO COnepnta!lIHeCR B  HeM BbiBOnbI BbIl?nFI~RT He3aBepmeHHbIMH, TaK Ka6 B HEIX IIOnH%T pan BOnPOCOBI HO He  naeTcir KaKOI?O-JI€i60 peuenTa nnir wx pemeeun. B STOR C B R ~ H  HaM KameTcsi, sacnymu~ae~  BHuMaHnR npennomeaue ysamaeMbIx npencTasuTeneñ M H n m  u rañaHb1, a T a m e  npyrux ne-  MIJX pemeHuñ. B qenoM Mbi pa~nenrrem B H C K ~ S ~ H H ~ I ~  npennomeaus o C O B ~ ~ H U I I  He6OJIbmOfi  pa6oueR rpynnbi nnR nonroToBRu pemeeun no nonnany IOpenuuecKoro KoMuTeTa.  JleI'aTOBI KOTOpbIe HanpaBneHbI Ha TO, r1~06bi OKa3aTb HaM COnefiCTBMe B iIOEICKe npileMne-
28.13 TOBapilm npenCenaTeJIb! rOBOpR 06 anMWHWCTPaTWBHblX II @klHaHCOBbIX BOnpOCaX  yKa3aIiHOft np06JIeM61, KOTOPbIe BCTaKJT nepen HaMA B OllpeneJleHHOM nOJiWTW9eCKOM KOH-  TelCCTe, MOXHO 6b1no 6bl OTMeTIITb, YTO KOMHCCIIR no anMHHHCTPaTUBHbIM BOnpOCaM npilJ'I0-
28.14 &I pasnenrre~ MHeHwe o TOM, YTO rocynapcTBo, mxonxmee u3 Opra~w~auuu,  TepReT BCe npaBa U npPíBHJIer€iH, CBRSaHHbIe C YSIeHCTBOM B IOHECKO, B YaCTHOCTA KBOTY.  Mbl He MOXeM COI'JIaCWTbCR C TeMU apryMeHTaMMr KOTOPbIe npHBOnuJIHCb B PRne BbICTynJle-  HEIR, B YaCTHOCTW, YTO6bl nOKa3aTb npaBOMepHOCTb COXpaHeHHR B mTa6-KBapTHpe I'paXnaH  BOR TOYKU 3peHPiS, HU C anMMHHCTpaTHBHOfi 3TU I'paXnaHe He MOFYT OCTaBaTbCR Ha CJlyX-  BMmenmero rocynapcTsa. Mbl, KaK u m o r u e  npyrue neneraTb1, CYuTaeM, YTO Hn c npaeo-
28.16 Bonpoc o nepcoaane Bbimenmero rocynapcma He06XOlluMO pemmb KaK MOXHO  rocynapcTBa. &I nonnepTssaeM B H C K ~ ~ ~ H H O ~  3necb ysaxaemM npencTasuTeneM Anmupa  MHeHUe o TOM, YTO nepcoaan Bbimenmero rocynapcma w yrpoxaamero CBOHM yxonoM npy-  ror0 rocynapcma npencTasnReT co6oñ cnumRoM 6OnbmOR KoHTuHreHT. M STO no6ymnae~  CKOpee npHMeHUTeJIbH0 K HbIHellIHeR CuTyaUHil ki B CBR3W C yrp03aMiu O BbIXOne npyrOr0  HaC PaCCMaTpWBaTb BO3HUKmyFJ npO6JIeMy CO BCeñ CePbe3HOCTbH). 3TOT BOlTpOC OCTPO  BCTaeT TaKXe II B CBR3ki C l7penCTORIIíHM COKpaüleH€ieM mTaTOB.
28.17 HaM Hall0 ZaTb He06XOnMMbIe yKa3aHUR reHepanbH0My ZiApeKTOPY Ha 3TOT CYeTr
6a3HpyRCb Ha 061nux npUHUWnaX, KOTOpbIe MOTJIA 661 JIeYb B OCHOBY nOJiATUKU B 3TOM BO-  npOCe. M lleno 3neCb He B TOM, YT0661 BHOCIITb KaICFie-JlIr60 M3MeHeHHR B HOPMaTHBHbIe  a r m .  HeKOTOpbIe BblcTynwsmue paeee npencTasuTenw rocynapcTB BbInBwranw xpynxue no-  Bom1 B nOnb3y coxpaaeeurr nepcoeana 113 w c n a  rpamnaa rocynapcTBa, KoTopoe caMo nu-  UInJiO c e 6 ~  YJIeHCTBa B IOHECKO. npU 3TOM BblnBUraJiCR TaK Ha3bIBaeMbIB ITpuHUiln YHKBep-  CaJlbHOCTW.
28.19 HanpamnsaeTcx Bonpoc, nax me MOTHO O ~ O C O ~ ~ R T ~ ,  Bbinenmb MemnyHaponHbiñ  cTaTyc CoTpynHuKoB IOHECKO, ecnw rocynapcTBo, sbimenmee 113 O p r a ~ ~ 3 a u w ~ ~  o6narae~  HanorOM 3apa60THyH) nnaTy CBORX rpaxnaH, pabo~aa~~aux B  TOR opra~wsaune. M naK He  napanoKcanbHo,  TH Hanom, RaK u conepxaene rpamnae ~ T O ~ O  rocynapcTBa, onnasmaeM  MU, rocynapcTaa-Yneeb1, npuaepmeeebIe u e n m  u uneanaM Hameñ Opra~w~auau.
28-20 ECJIU, T0BapSáII.I npenCenaTenb, nOn06HaR npaKTIáKa 6 y n e ~  COXPaHRTbCRr TO MbI  CTOnKHeMCR C HenpeOnOnMMbIMM TpYnHOCTRMUI YYMTbIBaR TOT @aKTI YTO ewe naJleK0 He  Bce rocynapcTsa-weHbI cMornu 3 a n o n ~ u ~ b  CBOH) KBOTY B CeKpeTapuaTe IOHECKO, a HaM  npennaramT, B nononHeHue KO BceMy, conepman 3a cBoñ cYeT rpamnaa Bbimenmero ro-  cynapcma. KaK yme 6bino 3necb C K ~ L S ~ H O ,  Mbi CTOWM nepen peanbeoñ B O ~ M O ~ H O C T ~ I O   HMeTb CeKpeTapuaT, Hanonosmy cocTonmnñ u3 rpamnae rocynapcTB, He IIB~RH)~HXCR  tIneHaMu Opra~nsauww. OnacHocTb nono6~oro npeuenema OYeBwnHa. XoTenocb 6b1 HanenTb-  CR, YTO 3npaBbIfi CMblCJI B peUeHHI3 naHHOFO BOnpOCa BOCTOpXeCTByeT EI BTOMY B KaKOfi-TO  Mepe MOI'nO 6b1 COneRCTBOBaTb PemeHue, nOCTSWHyTOe B KOMMCCHH no anMUHWCTPaTWBHb1M  BOnpOCaM.
28..21 X O T ~  TeKcT npoema pesonmuun 3 ~ 0 8  KOMUCCMU Bcero nxmb nonBonwT Hac IC pe-  Tpe6yIoT cBoero ~ e s a ~ e n n s ~ e n b ~ o r o  pemeeux, TeM He MeHeel Hama neneraum roToBa er0  meHUK) 3TUX BOnpOCOB EI OCTaBJlReT BCTOPOHelHeMaJIO CylUeCTBeHHbIX BOlTPOCOBr KOTOPbIe
1018    npnHnTb, npnnepmnaascb npmunna ICoHceHcyca. Mbl xopomo ~OMHIIM,K seMy npilmnnnu B  nx pemeenn.  npOmJlOM nOCïieiüHbIe OTCTynJleHIIn OT nOCTHrHyTbIX nOI'OBOpeHHOCTefi no OTnenbHbiM BOnpO-  CaM, a 3TH BOnpOCbi CeRrIaC AOCTaTOrIHO OCTPO 0603HarIHnHCb H Hano HaXOnIITb nyTH Ann
28.22 XOTeJlOCb 6bI TaICMe 3aMeTHTbl rITO ObBOnaKHBaHHe nZlHHOR np06neMM B nayTIIHy  npouenypaoro xapamepa MoxeT erge 6onee OCJIOXHRTb eel o6oc~pn~a II saTaHyn ee pe-  meHue.
28.23 nenerauna YCCP He MoxeT cornacmbcn c ~ ~ R B ~ ~ H H ~ M W ,  B XoTopbIx conepmmca  npenJlOMeHMe qyTb nH He BepHyTbC!ã IC HaYaJlbHOMy 06cyxne~nro naHH0fi npO6JleMbI B Opa-  HaX, rAe OHa yXe 6bIna PaCCMOTpeHa. Mbi He MOMeM COï'JlaCUTbC% II C JIOMKOÜ npOeKTa pe-
3OJIH)UilklI OüO6peHHOl?O yMe ARMHHACTpaTHBHOfi KOMklCCAeR M TeM oonee, nOBTOpSIK), BbICTY-  COI'JlaCOBaHHIO. &I BHOBb XOTeJIA 661 3neCb HenBYCMblCneHHO 3aRBkiTb I rITO Mbl FOTOBbI lips-  nepMMBaTbCR nOCTKrHyTOr0 KOHCeHCyCa. OnHaKO no Mepe npOn0JïXeHHR AHCICyCCilII Hama  üeneraUH5I BCe 60nbme Ha6nkoüaeT 3a YilOPCTBOM HeKOTOpblX AeneraTOB np0nOJlMal.b MHOXMTb  pa3nHYHble nOnpaBIC€i IC yICa3aHHOMy npOeKTy pe30JlmUMM. 3TO HaC He OCTaBJiReT, eCTeCT-  BeHHO I PaBHOnymHbIMPi.
28.24 Y HaC TaKXe PíMeeTCSI p5In iïOilpaBOKl KOTOpbIe Mbl XOTeJiII 6b1 BHBCTII B 3TOT  naem npoTnB Toro, ~ ~ 0 6 6 1  er0 nepenaTb Ha paccMoTpeHne B rpynny no penamnpoaaHnm n  npoem pe~onmunw. &I npennaraem, B 'IacTHocTn, B naparPa@ 1 C nocTaHosnamaefi vac-  Tn, nocne CJIOB, rne rOBOpklTCFI o rpaxnamx, He xBnammnxca vneHaMn Opra~n3aunn~  BBeCTH nononHnTenbHym @pasy cnenymwero conepxaHna (uwrnpym): "nnn rpaxnaHam ro-  UkITaTb1) n nanee no TeKCTy. naparPa@ 1 E Mbi npennaraeM nononHnTb Qpa308: 'ln ncxo-  ~eoóxonw~bie Mepbl" n nanee no TeIccTy. Ecnw, Tosapnrq npencenaTenb, 3 ~ n  onpasIcn  CYüaPCTBr O@PIUilanbHO YBenOMnBüiEiX O CBOeM HaMepeHPiH BblfiTM U3 OpraHH3aUHM" (KOHeU  nWTb M3 npMOpHTeTOB, yKa3aHHbIX B nyHKTe 1 c". B nYHKT 2 nOCTaHOBJlR€OQefi YdCTH  n0CJie CJIOB "W3YvaTb B03MOXHble lTYTWI' MOMHO 6bino 6bI nO6aBMTb CJIOBa: "H nPMHMMaT6
3II. Bce, YTO yXe CDeJlaHO B nJIaHe ïiOBbl~eHUR S@@eKTWBHOCTA ne5lTeJIbHOCTL-í H)HECKO, W  TO, YTO npeLICTOIiT eue OCYmeCTBMTb, nOnMHO OTBeYaTb MHTepeCaM POCynapCTB-YJïeHOB,  KOH@epeHUHR LlOJIXHa UCKaTb PemeHHe, OTpaXaIowee BOJIH) K COTPYnHMveCTBY kf B3aAMOnO-  HHMaHHKJ. BJIarOnapHI Bac.  PMBaTbCR B TOM cnyvae, ecnn npyrne ueneraunn 6ynyT HacTanBaTb Ha paccMoTpeHnn  namaenmeMy yKpenneanm Hamefi Opra~n~aunn. MweHHo B  TOM HanpaBneHwn reHepanbHan
(28. I) Mr ZLENKO (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic) (Translation from the  Russian) :  Thank you, Comrade Presjdent. Our delegation would like to begin its state-  ment with a word of thanks to the Chairmen of the Administrative Commission and the  Legal Committee for preparing the reports on the problems connected with the conse-  quences of the withdrawal from Unesco of a Member State.
(28.2) Perusal of these documents has given us a sense of satisfaction at the great  and important work that has been done. Its value lies in the fact that for the first  time, a thorough examination has been made within the supreme forum of Unesco of a  problem that is hindering the settlement cf a number of other questions of great  importance for the ncrmal functioning of our Organization. As we see it, the import-  ance of this work also lies in the fact that it has contributed to a proper under-  standing of the situation that has emerged in connection with the withdrawal of the  United States of America from Unesco. At the same time, we feel that the results of  the work that has been done will be useful for evaluating any situation that might  arise in the event of similar problems appearing in the future.
(28.3) Comrade President. In considering this question, our delegation takes as its  starting-point the need to assist the Director-General in what he is doing to overcome  the adverse consequences of the departure of the United States. It should be stressed  that there are many other Member States that are concerned by these consequences, as  we have seen from the statements of their representatives. All this starkly poses the  question of how, without further delay, to find a solution to the problem that has  arisen and how to stop attempts to put one-sided interpretations on it by the advance-  ment of various far-fetched arguments.
(28.4) The problem we are considering touches on many interrelated questions of a  political, legal and administrative nature. We are convinced that each of these ques-  tions requires careful consideration so that clear conclusions and proposals can be  formulated.
(28.5) To take the political aspect, an appropriate assessment has already been made  of this at sessions of the Executive Board and in the course of the general policy
1019    debate. The majority acknowledged that the action of the United States is damaging to  multilateral forms of co-operation and undermines the principle of universality upon  which the entire United Nations system is built. Withdrawing from Unesco, one of the  most important intergovernmental organizations, is a direct challenge to the inter-  natïonal community.
(28.6) I want to dwell here on the legal aspects of this problem. As is clear from  the report of the Legal Committee, the question of the withdrawal of a Member State  from Unesco or from other organizations has still not been sorted out. When they were  drawing up Unesco's Constitution, the Organization's founding fathers could not have  imagined that in the distant future such a problem might arise. This is evidently why  there is no provision in the Constitution for accreditation to Unesco of States which  are not members or of States which were members of Unesco but which have taken a  decision to withdraw. We are considering the case of a State which has withdrawn from  Unesco and has itself determined its relationship to that organization.
(28;?) However, let us leave for a while the question of the position of that State  vis-à-vis our Organization. .The question now is to determine the rights and obli-  gations of the Organization and of a Member State which withdraws from it. The ques-  tion of the granting of observer status arises.
(28.8) We share the position adopted in paragraph 6 of the report of the Legal Com-  mittee, which, we feel, correctly states the facts with which we are confronted.  Indeed, questions concerning the mutual rights and obligations of the Organization and  a withdrawing Member State are not dealt with in international law. References made  here to the Vienna Convention cannot in our view be applied to the case we are consid-  ering because, as has been pointed out before, an unprecedented and extraordinary  situation has arisen.
(28.9) I must say it is strange for us to hear appeals to the Vienna Convention  coming from the lips of representatives of States which have so far not considered it  necessary even to sign that document, let alone ratify it. We realize that in this  instance, they feel compelled to seize upon any documents that could provide arguments  of some kind which they might be able to cling to.
(28.10) In the view of our delegation, Unesco, which has come up ?gainst a particular  event in its practice, must now without fail equip itself with appropriate statutes  which would regulate the whole gamut of questions connected with the problem con-  cerned. We consider that the General Conference itself has the power to make good that  shortcoming.
(28.11) On the matter of the establishment of observer status, under no circumstances  can we agree to placing a State which has withdrawn from the Organization on an equal  footing with Member States which are fulfilling the obligations imposed on them by  membership. In our view, paragraphs 7 and 8 of the report of the Legal Commlttee men-  tioned earlier, which deal with the general context and principles governing co-  operation between a State establishing an observer mission and the Organization, con-  tain the necessar?r considerations for a correct understanding and interpretation of  that position.
(28.12) In principle, we go along with the conclusions reached by the Legal Committee  as regards asking the International Court for an advisory opinion on the financial  obligations of a departing State. Our delegation shares the view expressed by those  delegates who feel that an advisory opinion might dispel our doubts and clarify the  situation with respect to this problem. Truth to tell, we harbour no particular  illusions concerning this matter. If the General Conference considers it necessary to  take a decision on the matter, then we shall be prepared to support that decision,  Examining the report of the Legal Committee, it is not difficult to understand that  the conclusions contained in it look to be Incomplete, since a series of questions are  raised but no prescription is given for their solution. In that connection, it seems  to us that the proposal of the distinguished delegates of India and Guyana, and also  other delegates who are concerned to help us find acceptable solutions, is deserving  of attention. On the whole, we go along with the proposals that have been made con-  cerning setting up a small working group to devise solutions in accordance with the  report of the Legal Committee.
(28.13) Comrade President. Speaking of the administrative and financial aspects of  the problem concerned, which are arising in a particular political context, one might  observe that the Administrative Commission has made a considerable effort to find a  compromise solution to this problem and has thus been able to do its duty. The  solution adopted is presented as a consensus, albeit a fragile consensus, but one that  reflects all points of view and the differing opinions on the matters under  consideration.
(28.14) We share the view that a State withdrawing from the Organization loses all  rights and privileges connected with membership of Unesco, in particular its quota. We
1020    cannot agree with the arguments advanced in a number of statements to prove the law-  fulness of retaining at Headquarters nationals of a withdrawing State. Like many other  delegates, we consider that neither from the legal. nor from the administrative point  of view can those nationals remain in the service of the Organization.
(28.15) It goes without saying that in the recruitment of staff, the Director-General  must have dealings only with Member States, adhering strictly to the principle of  equitable geographical distribution.
(28.16) It is essential to resolve the question of staff from a withdrawing State as  swiftly as possible in conformity with the current situation and in connection with  the threats of withdrawal of another State. We support the view expressed here by the  distinguished delegate of Algeria that the staff of the State that has withdrawn and  of the other State that is threatening to withdraw represent too large a contingent.  That prompts us to consider with all seriousness the problem that has arisen. This  question arises with equal urgency in connection with the impending reduction in staff  numbers.
(28.17) We must give the Director-General the necessary instructions on this score,  taking our stand on general principles which could provide a foundation for policy on  this matter. The point here is not to make some changes in standard-setting texts.  Some representatives of States who spoke earlier advanced flimsy arguments in favour  of keeping staff who were nationals of a State which had itself relinquished member-  ship of Unesco, advancing the so-called principle of universality.
(28.18) I should like to point out that an obvious confusion arises here, when it  comes to discussing application of that principle. Attempts to come to the defence of  nationals of a withdrawing State by citing the international nature of the work of the  staff of the Unesco Secretariat do not have any legal force.
(28.19) The question arises as to how it is possible to isolate and preserve the  international status of Unesco employees if a StPte which has withdrawn from the  Organization taxes the salaries of its nationals who are working in the Organization.  And is it not paradoxical that we Member States, who are devoted to the aims and  ideals of our Organization, pay the taxes and salaries of nationals of that State?
(28.20) Comrade President. If such a practice is retained we shall encounter insuper-  able difficulties in view of the fact that by no means all Member States have been  able to fill their quotas in the Unesco Secretariat, and to cap it all it is being  suggested that we should include nationals of a State which has withdrawn. As has  already been stated, we arc now faced with a real possibility of having a Secretariat  half of which is composed of nationals of States which are not members of the Organiz-  ation. The danger of such a precedent is obvious. I should like to hope that common  sense will prevail in deciding the matter and that the decision reached in the Admin-  istrative Commission might contribute in some degree to that.
(28.21) Although the text of the draft resolution of that Commission only brings us  to a decision on these questions and leaves a number of essential questions that  require immediate solution, none the less our delegation is prepared to accept it,  upholding the principle of consensus. We remember very well what hasty retreats from  agreed understandings on individual questions have led to in the past, but these ques-  tions have now appeared sufficiently acutely and ways nust be found to solve them.
(28.22) I should also like to point out that enveloping the problem in a procedural  web may further complicate it and make its solution more difficult and less rapid.
(28.23) The Delegation of the Ukrainian SSR cannot agree with statements in which  there is a proposal that we should virtually start the discussion all over again in  organs where it has already been considered. We cannot agree to breaking the draft  resolution approved already by the Administrative Commission, and all the more, I  repeat, are we against passing it for examination to the Drafting and Negotiation  Group. Again we should like to state unequivocally that we are prepared to uphold the  consensus that has been reached. However, as the discussion continues, our delegation  is increasingly seeing how persistently some delegates are continuing to augment the  number of different amendments to the draft resolution concerned. This naturally does  not leave us unconcerned.
(28.24) We also have a series of amendments which we should like to make to this  draft resolution. In particular, we propose that in paragraph 1 (c) of the operative  part after the words referring to nationals of non-Member States, the following phrase  should he added (and I quote) 'or nationals of States that have given official notifi-  cation of their intention to withdraw from the Organization' (end of quote), and so on  as per the text. In paragraph 1 (e), we propose adding the phrase 'and should proceed  on the basis of the priorities stated in paragraph 1 (c)'. In paragraph 2 of the oper-  ative part after the words 'study further possible means' could be added the words  'and take the necessary measures', and then as per the text. If, Comrade President,
1021    these amendments are considered at the same time as others, we shall be prepared to  back them up as required. However, I repeat yet again that these amendments must be  considered in the event of other delegations insisting on consideration of their  amendments, therehy destroying the consensus that has been reached.
(28.25) In conclusion, our delegation would like to underline once again the import-  ance and advisability of considering the whole complex of questions in their inter-  relationship. Everything that has already been done to increase the efficiency of  Unesco's activity, and whatever still remains to be done, must meet the interests of  Member States and the further strengthening of our Organization. It is precisely in  that direction that the General Conference must seek a solution that reflects the  desire for Co-operation and mutual understanding. Thank you.
29. Le PRESIDENT :  et j'invite le délégué de la Trinité-et-Tobago à prendre la parole.
30.1 Mr. WILLIAMS (Trinidad and Tobago) :  Thank you, Mr President. Because of the importance of the item under  discussion, the Trinidad and Tobago delegation wishes to record its views on the  subject, and in so doing I shall be brief. This is another situation affecting a  former Member State which has withdrawn from the Organization. Moreover, given  the notices of withdrawal before the Organization, the decision arrived at here  could be of far-reaching significance. We must therefore, Mr President, seek to  ensure that our decisions are prudent and not influenced by feelings of indig-  nation; and we must further seek to devise a formulation which, while providing  legal and constitutional guidelines for the future, will also serve to encourage  the early return of any State that has withdrawn from the Organization.
30.2 Observer status in the Organization is, as has been pointed out, nothing  new. What is new ground, however, is the need to define the reciprocal rights and  obligations of the Organization and the Member State which withdraws, and which  on withdrawing seeks and obtains observer status. The Legal Committee's draft  report, which we regard as a cogent, succinct and highly commendable document,  states this point very clearly. It is therefore the Conference's duty to define  these rights and obligations. In doing so, we must look ahead and not look back.  We endorse the guidelines proposed in paragraph 7 of the Legal Committee's report  and urge their acceptance. We also regard paragraph 8(a) (i) and (ii) as accept-  able. Paragraph 8 (b) , however, poses some problems for us in that we fail to see  on what 'the fact of a State's endeavouring to promote co-operation with the  Organization' could be based. This, when taken with the words, 'consideration of  the advisability of granting facilities', makes the text unacceptable as pres-  ently drafted.
30.3 Paragraph 8(d), while acceptable as a general rule, does not in our view  provide an answer to the present situation involving a withdrawn Member State  which does not accept the Organization's interpretation with regard to what are  its financial obligations. Acceptable for the future, the principle provides no  practical guidelines for the present. We see paragraph 8 (a). therefore more as  confusing the present issue than as solving it. On that basis, and on that basis  alone, it is unacceptable to us.
30.4 With regard to section B of the report, we are in a bit of a quandary.  We see merit in both the views expressed. The International Court of Justice  being the highest international court of appeal, its judgment would have moral  authority and would serve as an authoritative guide for the future. On the other  hand, we must accept the view that the judgement of the Court will not be binding  and is not likely to be followed. The cost factor has also been advanced as an  additional reason from refraining from pursuing the issue at that level. So, too,  has been the contention that the Court could rule against Unesco on the substan-  tive issue. The most telling argument from our point of view, however, Mr Presi-  dent, is that going to the International Court of Justice would further aggravate  an already delicate situation and could delay the return of the United States to  the Organization.
30.5 We would like to emphasize here that Trinidad and Tobago holds the view  that every effort should be made to ensure that no hindrances, deterrents or  obstacles of any kind are placed in the way of the United States that would delay  or any way affect its early return to the Organization. We believe that the  Executive Board and the General Conference have a special duty in this regard.
30.6 Having placed these factors on balance, Mr President, we feel that seek-  ing an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice on the financial  obligations of a Member State which withdraws from the Organization in the course  of a budgetary period could be counterproductive. We are therefore against this  approach, and wish to join those Member States which suggest that alternatives  should be found within the Organization for resolving the issue.  Je remercie le délégué de la Rgpublique socialiste soviétique d'Ukraine
30.7 We wish to support the draft resolution formulated in document 23 Ci102  Add. and Corr. We hold the view that nationality should not be used as the main  criterion in determining the staff to be affected when the exercise aimed at the  rationalization of staff is being undertaken and that integrity, efficiency and  technical competence should be given priority consideration at that time. We  recognize, on the other hand, Mr President, the inequitable nature of a situation  which could have a negative impact on the fundamental principle of geographical  representation, and the consequential effects of its implementation. We share the  concerns of those who see the withdrawal of Member States as resulting in a dis-  proportionate number of staff from non-Member States to the disadvantage of  qualified nationals of States which are members of the Organization. We feel,  however, that the discretion given to the distinguished Director-General in the  renewal of contracts which have expired, while shifting the burden of responsi-  bility to him, would serve to mollify the negative aspects of this anomalous  situation. There are some, Mr President, who advise that a strictly legal  approach should be taken to the question of geographical distribution. They see  this as leading to a simple and clear solution: that of discontinuing the service  of staff members who are nationals of withdrawing States. The Trinidad and Tobago  delegation would caution against the adoption of a strictly legalistic approach.  We would instead appeal to the General Conference to be governed in this matter  by a concept which is of overriding importance to this Organization and to multi-  lateralism in general. We refer to the concept of universality. We would appeal  to the General Conference to be so governed in its approaches to solutions in  these matters so as to enable the Organization to return to this desirable and  indispensable state of affairs with the greatest speed.
30.8 The above having been said, the Trinidad and Tobago delegation wishes to  state that it will accept the consensus arrived at on this subject. Thank you,  Mr President.
31. Le PRESIDENT :  délégué de l'Italie.
32.1 Mr INDELICATO (Italy) :  Thank you, Mr President, I am going to deal very briefly with the three  main issues arising from the withdrawal of the United States of America from  Unesco. These problems have already been submitted to the Legal Committee and the  Administrative Commission. The first committee was charged with the task not of  finding a solution to the problem, but rather of providing the General Conference  with all relevant legal elements so that it could with proper knowledge reach a  satisfactory, reasonable and ultimate decision. As to the results to the proceed-  ings of the Administrative Commission, I have been told that a number of minor  amendments were proposed by some delegations during or immediately after the  debate. But, in any event, what is important is that, in the appreciation of the  fine work performed by the two committees, our final decisions cannot rest solely  on the juridical or administrative factors, even if we have to take them duly  into account.  Je remercie le délégué de la Trinité et Tobago et je donne la parole au
32.2 From time to time Unesco has been accused of being too political. But,  whether we like it or not, this is one occasion when the decisions to be made  will be political decisions. Consequently, even though a jurist by training, I  will not dwell on the legal aspects of the question, on which others have spoken  extensively and with profound insight and eloquence. Let me say that I see no  juridical difficulty in accepting the idea that this General Conference could ask  the International Court of Justice of The Hague for an advisory opinion you can  always ask for an opinion. But would it be wise? Would it be useful? Would it  help us? Would it ease the financial situation of Unesco? Would it meet our con-  cern to open a way which could - or even should - lead Unesco to regain its uni-  versality? These are the true questions. If we did not look at things in this  light, we would. waste our time; we would deceive ourselves; and, more than any-  thing else, we would exacerbate the situation. The problem, if it has its legal  aspects, is - I insist - a political one. If we want to solve it, why don't we  have recourse to an idea already aired by some of our distinguished colleagues -  that is, to have an arbitration through a jury of three members, two of them  appointed one by each party and the chairman by the two. If the United States  Government accepted the idea, they would be naturally bound by the conclusion of  the arbitration jury; and in this way we would solve our problems, including the  need which we should never lose sight of to protect the image of Unesco in the  media and in public opinion in general. But if this General Conference decides to  insist on requesting the advice of the International Court, the Italian  delegation will not stand in the way of consensus even if we have the serious  doubts which I have just submitted to your consideration.
32.3 The question of the observer status is still more political in the sense  that we have to take the following points into account. First, it would be a
1023    political mistake without precedent to establish a distinction between an  observer State which has been a member and an observer State which has never been  a member of this Organization. This distinction, which could not be justified by  any international law, treaty or custom, would be considered everywhere as a  piece of discrimination, which means in fact an injustice. Secondly, is it in the  interest of Unesco, an organization that has to be looked at as a standard of  culture, reason and objectivity, is it in the interest of this General Confer-  ence, to appear as - let us say - a resentful body. All those who are attached to  a certain idea, a certain image of Unesco, should reflect on this fact. In  politics, appearance is sometimes more important than intentions - or, at least,  than good intentions such as those which have undoubtedly inspired the authors of  the proposal to put some conditions on the granting of observer status to the  State that we all want to have again among us as a full member.
32.4 Mr President, L will be very brief on the problem of the personnel. I  might confine myself to a vexy short remark: let us apply the international law  and the existing rules and regulations of Unesco. Of course, I am not unaware  that at the root of this debate there are two different conceptions of the inter-  national civil service. Some among us consider that international officials are,  so to speak, lent or rented to this Organization, but that they remain tightly  linked with their government and consequently they are responsible for the  actions of their government. Let me be very clear on this point: we cannot accept  this conception. We consider that an international official is exactly and only  this: an international official. He or she owes allegiance only to Unesco, and  not to his or her State or government. This is a fundamental principle which we  should never forget if we are really attached to the independence of the staff of  our Secretariat. The consequences are - I repeat - to be found in the rules which  constitute a guarantee for the personnel as well as for the Organization itself.  The first consequence is that no new American citizen should be recruited; an  exception could only arise if it were impossible to find the right skill, integ-  rity and professional capacity among the candidates of the Member States, which,  we must admit, seems unrealistic. The second is that all personnel currently in  service must be treated in the same manner without any distinction or discrimin-  ation based, among other things, on nationality. The third is that this principle  has to be applied in particular in the event of it being necessary to reduce the  personnel. A more balanced geographical distribution can only result, perhaps in  the long run, from the natural turnover; it cannot be taken as a criteria of the  same strength as the ones spelled out in Article VI.4 of the Constitution, that  is to say, integrity, efficiency and technical competence. In these as in the  other issues at stake, we have to be very careful not to be influenced by resent-  ments, legitimate, or at least comprehensible, as they might be or appear. We  have the duty not to lose sight of the real interests of our Organization. I am  sure that we all here consider that, in the present moment, the paramount  interest of the Organization is in the search for a renewed. universality, which  is indispensible for Unesco to carry out its mission. Thank you very much,  Mr President.
33. Le PRESIDENT :  prendre la parole.
34.1 M. RITTO (Portugal) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Je crois qu'à ce stade du  débat, il commence à être un peu difficile de dire quelque chose de nouveau,  d'original : donc, en ce qui me concerne, je vais essayer d'être le plus  schématique et aussi le plus bref possible.
34.2 Je commencerai donc par dire que nous fonderons nos observations  concernant ces problèmes sur trois principes très simples que je vais énumérer  très brièvement aussi. \ Premièrement, nous sommes contre toute discrimination -  j'expliquerai plus tard ce que j'entends par discrimination dans ce contexte.  Deuxième principe, nous sommes - je l'ai dit récemment lors du débat de poli-  tique générale et je le réaffirme ici - en faveur de tout ce qui porte au  dialogue et au compromis et contre l'esprit de conflit ou de confrontation.  Troisièmement, nous sommes attachés à la coopération multilatérale au sein du  système des Nations Unies et en particulier de l'Unesco. Voilà très schéma-  tiquement les trois guides du raisonnement que je développerai à l'égard des  grands points, qui sont trois eux aussi, traités dans le document 23 Cl93.
34.3 Ces principes sont particulièrement applicables, surtout celui qui  concerne le refus de toute discrimination, au sujet du statut, ou de la situa-  tion, si l'on veut, d'observateur. La situation d'observateur, on le voit, n'est  pas du tout un fait nouveau ni à l'Unesco ni dans les autres institutions du  système des Nations Unies. Ce point a déjà été examiné par le Conseil exécutif en  avril 1947, puis de nouveau en 1951. La question est donc de savoir si la  situation d'un Etat qui s'est retiré est quelque chose de radicalement nouveau.  Je remercie le délégué de l'Italie et j'invite le délégué du Portugal à
34.4 Nous ne le croyons pas. I1 y a des Etats qui n'appartiennent pas à  l'Unesco ni à un autre organisme du système des Nations Unies et qui veulent  avoir des contacts avec l'Unesco, qui veulent en quelque sorte un moyen de  rapprochement, des Etats qui se sont retirés - que la chose soit bonne ou  mauvaise - come ils en avaient le droit ; eh bien, ces Etats veulent continuer à  avoir des relations avec l'Unesco, c'est le cas général de tous les observateurs.
34.5 I1 y a je crois, un adage, une phrase du droit romain, s'il y avait une  cabine d'interprétation latine je pourrais la citer, qui dit en substance : si la  loi ne fait pas de distinction, ce n'est pas à nous d'en faire. Dans le cas qui  nous occupe, il n'y a pas de loi, il y a une pratique : la pratique du statut  d'observateur. Mieux vaut ne pas faire de distinction de ce genre, qui risquerait  de nous faire taxer de discrimination ou bien d'octroi de privilèges. En résumé,  pour nous, le cas est très clair : il n'existe qu'une position d'observateur ; il  s'agit d'une pratique qui n'est pas nouvelle et il ne faut pas faire de distinc-  tion en la matière.
34.6 En ce qui concerne le problème du personnel, nous appliquerions  exactement le même principe de refus de la discrimination, discrimination, en  l'occurrence, en raison de la nationalité. Cela a déjà abondamment été dit ici  par les orateurs qui m'ont précédé ; le distingué délégué de l'Italie vient  d'ailleurs de le faire. Les critères à respecter, en matière de personnel, sont  déjà connus de tous. Je crois que, pour ce qui est du recrutement de nouveaux  fonctionnaires, il faut donner la priorité aux ressortissants des Etats membres,  avec les exceptions qui sont prévues ; voilà qui est normal. En ce qui concerne  les autres points, nous croyons qu'il n'y a pas lieu de faire de distinction en  ce qui concerne la nationalité ; à nouveau, c'est à une sorte de discrimination  que nous nous opposons.
34.7 Enfin et très rapidement, pour être bref, le problème du recours à la  Cour de La Haye. Là, j'invoquerai plutôt les deux derniers principes dont j 'ai  parlé : d'une part notre penchant pour le dialogue et le compromis, et d'autre  part notre attachement à l'Unesco elle-même, notamment à son universalité. Le  recours à la Cour de La Haye est bien sûr aussi légitime - d'autres que moi l'ont  dit - et nous sommes d'accord sur cette réalité juridique ; elle est reconnue ;  elle ne fait pas de doute. Cela dit, je crois qu'il faut ne pas faire obstacle à  un rapprochement possible avec 1'Etat qui s'est retiré et le recours à la Cour de  La Haye, s'il est parfaitement légitime, serait une source de difficultés poli-  tiques. C'est là le point sur lequel nous voudrions insister. En effet, nous  croyons que les moyens et les voies ne sont pas encore tout à fait épuisés pour  la recherche d'une solution au différend qui oppose l'Unesco à 1'Etat en cause.
34.8 C'est en ayant présent à l'esprit l'avenir de l'Unesco que nous avons  énoncé ces trois critères d'analyse des problèmes qui nous sont posés dans le  document 23 CI93 et que nous avons essayé de vous donner les conclusions aux-  quelles nous sommes parvenus. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
35. Le PRESIDENT :  à prendre la parole.
(36.1) Mr CAICEDO AYERBE (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, the time has now come for the plenary to examine document
23 C/93, which contains Part III of 122 EX/Decision 5.1.1 of the Executive Board. This  document places before us three interrelated problems, all of which have inescapable  legal and political implications. Mr President, while I would not wish to embark on a  juridical analysis, I should like to read out the Executive Board's last two consider-  anda. The first reads:  'Taking into account the wish expressed by the Director-General to be given  specific instructions with regard to the measures to be taken to ensure the  future of the Organization'  and refers to measures for the future. The second reads:  'Reaffirming the importance that it attaches to the universal character of  Unesco and its permanent readiness to facilitate and encourage the restor-  ation of that universality within the Organization'.  Clearly, Mr President, these two phrases 'to ensure the future of the Organization'  and 'encourage the restoration of that universality' indicate the standpoint from  which this situation - which in my delegation's and my governnent's opinion is an  essentially political one - should be viewed.
(36.2) Consequently, the commendable efforts and the juridical achievements of the  Legal Committee and the Administative Commission do not in themselves make the way  clear for us. Mr President, I shall now turn to the three points under discussion. As  regards the situation of staff members that are nationals of the State that has with-  drawn from the Organization, I should like to point nut that they are linked with not  only their country of origin by virture of their birth, they are also linked with the  international civil service in their capacity as staff members of an organization of  the United Nations family. The withdrawal of their country of origin came upon them  unawares, and they do not deserve to be discriminated against on that account. In any  case, there are humanitarian considerations to be taken into consideration. It is up  to us to ensure that equity prevails and to ensure that it is compatible with the  principle of proper geographical representation of the regions of the world on  Unesco's staff.
(36.3) With regard to the advisability of defining observer status here and now I  consider, Mr President, that this is really not the tlme to rectify any lacunae that
38.1  might ,,exist in our basic provisions. We consider it to be a truly inopportune moment,  since we are now between one State's withdrawal and the announcement of withdrawal of  two other States. We would be creating a traumatic situation, when our intention is to  demonstrate responsiveness and flexibility.
(36.4) Nor do we believe that it would be wise to proceed to a consultation with the  International Court of Justice; such a course may well appear to be contentious, and  we prefer the course of direct dialogue. But, Mr President, more importantly, I con-  sider that we are not so much solving a petty accounting or budgetary problem, a prob-  lem of the past, as clarifying situations with a view to the future. As a matter of  fact, the Director-General has invoked a worthy criterion and requested to be given  guidelines that would enable those objectives to be attained.
(38. I) Mr GONZALEZ (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish) :  Mr President, we have followed this protracted debate, the importance of  which has already been emphasized by other speakers, with close attention. We wish to  associate ourselves with the thanks and congratulations extended to the Chairmen of  the Legal Committee and the Administrative Commission. The problems raised can be
1028    approached from several angles but, and it is as well to remember it, they stem from a  single cause, The withdrawal of a Member State. This State has, furthermore, refused  to pay the contribution for which, we should not allow ourselves to forget, it voted,  thereby accepting and approving the financial period of a biennium and with it all the  Organization's plans and programmes, which we have since been obliged to cut back in  an exhausting, bitter and difficult exercise that has lasted close on two years. It  was that country that decided to leave the Organization, thereby cutting off any  possibility of dialogue and understanding despite - and I am anxious to recall what  some seem to have forgotten - the numerous suggestions and considerable number of con-  cessions made by the vast majority of countries represented here.
(38.2) Some speakers have expressed their views on the concept of universality in  this connection, and it is as well to underline, in that context, that universality  cannot be based on managerial criteria of representativity, but rather on scrupulous  adherence to the equality of all States and unqualified respect for their sovereignty.  It is neither Unesco nor its Member States that have damaged the Organization's uni-  versality; it is the United States of America that has withdrawn from that univer-  sality, quite often violating the rules of ethics in its attacks on the Organization,  what it stands for, and its worthy Director-General. That attitude, Mr President, will  leave a blot on this story. I am interested in deeds, not words, and so far there has  been no indication that the good will expressed here by the majority of countries has  in any way inspired the Member State that has withdrawn to return.
(38.3) The Organization and all of us here, including those of us who are separated  from the United States by deep-rooted differences, would dearly like to see this  important country resume the place it has abandoned. This is no mere rhetoric; we say  it because we consider their return would be the right thing and the fair thing, both  for the international community and, perhaps even more, for the country's own intel-  lectual and political climate. If we are now discussing these problems it is precisely  because they are problems, and ones that Unesco is certainly not responsible for. We  are discussing them and seeking and proposing solutions to them, but not with a desire  for revenge or humiliation, as some have insinuated and others said outright. Our aim  is to seek the right approach to the question that have arisen, with a view to the  defence of the Organization and its effectiveness, while some would have it that  Unesco should be apologizing. We are not attempting to charge a price for the return  of the United States, because respect for the Organization and dignity are not  quantifiable.
(38.4) We should make it absolutely clear that we were not satisfied by the consen-  sus arrived at in the Administrative Commission. We accepted it for the sake of a  consensus, which is now threatened, and we therefore oppose any move to refer the  matter to a special group that would reconsider the difficult and fragile - although  acceptable - consensus reached. I hope, Mr President, to see that consensus ratified  here and now, because it is absolutely impossible, no matter what weird and wonderful  arguments are put forward, to hide the differences between the position as observers  of those who wish to have a relationship with the Organization in order to know more  about it and co-operate with it and that of those that have withdrawn from the Organ-  ization, curtailing dialogue and undermining it by all the means in their power. We  know, Mr President, that those means are neither negligible nor lightweight. We also  know that it is possible to protect the integrity of the Organization. We therefore  consider it necessary and fair that certain minimum norms and rules should be estab-  lished, and that personnel problems should be tackled justly and calmly. At any event,  such a formula must not affect the Member States' representativity - because that  would imply a privilege for the Member State that withdrew - or the system of contri-  butions agreed on by everyone.
(38.5) Here also we are in favour of the solutions proposed. We have made our  position clear time and time again in the Executive Board regarding the situation of  observers. The vigilance that some countries seem to have taken upon themselves often  takes the form of pressure which could reflect the intention to create two Unescos,  one that is prepared to assume duties and obligations and another that settles for the  easy role - but perhaps dangerous for the Organization - of observers.
(38.6) At the same time as attempts are being made to deny the Organization its  right and obligation to establish rules of play, it seems that we are being asked to  make timid obeisance to those who would only wish to return to a Unesco fashioned to  their specifications and one that unconditionally accepted their one-sided aspir- ,  ations. If we say this so bluntly, it is because we have given proof of our intention  to seek a worthy and acceptable arrangement for everyone, for it must be worthy and  acceptable to all. I say all, Mr President, because there is a majority that does not  wish to see its hopes dashed and made a mockery of yet again.
(38.7) Consequently, we agree to the presence of an observer, as we did in the  Board; but, we repeat, always provided it does not slow down the Organization's work  or further rarefy an already vitiated atmosphere, and on the condition that the State  in question shows itself ready to fulfil the obligations it has contracted with the
1029    international community. It is not only our right, but our ineluctable duty to take  the measures necessary to guarantee the position of observers and also the proper pro-  gress of the Organization's work.
(38.8)' A majority has decided in favour of requesting an advisory opinion, of a  general nature, from the Court of the Hague. We see nothing wrong in this; we consider  it rather as helping to achieve clarity and transparency, not only shedding light on  the present situation, but as a ruling that could be applied to any future situations.  This seems to us to be a serious and responsible attitude and paragraphs 7 and 8 of  the Legal Committee's draft resolution would be helpful in that respect. My distin-  guished friend Mr Luckhoo's suggestion of organizing a kind of universally acceptable  arbitration which would genuinely clarify the situation in which we now find ourselves  is clearly attractive. Nevertheless, it could bring in its wake serious economic dis-  advantages that would detract from its intention. In any event, some formula could be  found to enable us to continue negotiations.
(38.9)' But, in addition, it would be both morally healthy and illuminating for the  Conference to take a decision on the legal opinion handed down by the experts desig-  nated by the Director-General. Three of them have clearly and beyond the shadow of a  doubt expressed their opinion that the withdrawing State should fulfil its obli-  gations. And we accept that ruling. The Organization cannot, and we cannot, continue  to devote our time, our energy and our financial resources to problems that should be  quite clearly defined and which could drag on and on, despite our desire to have. them  settled once and for all.
(38.10) We are told that the press, various parliaments and certain political powers  are observing us. But threats, blackmail and pressure will not help us to solve our  problems; that is a course that we calmly and very forcefully reject. Let us try to  show the flexibility and understanding and practise the collaboration we call for in  our speeches. To conclude, Mr President, I wish to repeat a line from the poet Louis  Aragon which was quoted by a colleague at the spring session of the Executive Board.  'There is no such thing as love, there are only tokens of love'., Mr President, the  international community, our countries, the whole world are awaiting tokens of our  love. Thank you.
39. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le délégué de Cuba et je donne la parole au dernier orateur  qui s'était inscrit avant que la liste ne soit close, au délégué de la République  centrafricaine, qui avait demandé que son intervention soit reportée à  aujourd'hui.
40.1 M. BLAGUE (République centrafricaine) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, comme  tous les orateurs qui m'ont précédé, j'aimerais rendre hommage au Comité juri-  dique et à son Président, ainsi qu'à la Commission administrative et à son  Président, qui nous ont soumis un rapport substantiel, précis et clair. Monsieur  le Président, avant d'entrer dans le vif du sujet, permettez-moi de dire que le  poids de tous les mots que nous avons entendus depuis le début de ce débat, nous  démontre que le sujet est véritablement grave et complexe. Jugez-en vous-même. On  a évoqué les problèmes de tension, de conflit, de confrontation, de discrimina-  tion, d'injustice, de ressentiment, de réalisme, de sagesse, que sais-je encore ?  Mais, Monsieur le Président, j'aimerais qu'on en revienne à la matière même qui  nous préoccupe, c'est-à-dire aux faits. Je m'en tiendrai donc aux faits, Monsieur  le Président.
40.2 I1 se trouve que si, aujourd'hui, la Conférence générale doit débattre  de ce problème épineux, c'est qu'il y a problème, et c'est qu'il y a une cause à  ce problème. Et la cause, tout le monde le sait mais tend à l'oublier, c'est le  retrait d'un Etat membre éminent, avec toutes les conséquences que cela comporte  sur le plan financier, sur le plan moral, sur le plan politique et sur le plan  intellectuel. J'aimerais que les distingués délégués qui sont ici dans la salle  ne l'oublient pas. C'est le postulat de base, car si nous perdons de vue le  postulat de base, nous risquons d'argumenter avec des principes que je quali-  fierai de métaphysiques. Et s'il est question de compression de personnel, s'il  est question de faire des coupes sombres dans les programmes, s'il est question  donc d'ajustement à apporter au 23 C/5, c'est parce que précisément il y a eu  retrait, avec toutes les conséquences que je vous ai citées. Voilà me semble-  t-il, Monsieur le Président, le premier principe du réalisme qu'on nous demande  de respecter.
40.3 Cela dit, l'organisation, à travers son Conseil exécutif, a été amenée à  attribuer à 1'Etat qui nous a quitté des facilités qui sont faites aux Etats qui  demandent à se rapprocher de l'organisation en qualité d'observateur. Et si le  Conseil exécutif a pris cette décision, c'est précisément parce qu'il était animé  d'un souci de conciliation, du souci de voir cet Etat membre qui s'est retiré,  reconsidérer sa position et négocier franchement, sincèrement et en toute bonne  I
1030    foi, avec le Secrétariat chargé de conduire la réalisation du programme de notre  Organisation. Mais il se trouve, Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, que  jusqu'ici ces négociations n'ont rien donné. Et qui plus est, il a été constaté  que ces facilités d'observateur n'ont pas permis à 1'Etat membre de développer un  style de coopération avec l'Unesco qui puisse attester une volonté réelle de  réintégrer le rang de l'organisation dans les délais les plus brefs. Je m'en  tiens toujours aux faits, Monsieur le Président. Et tous les honorables membres  du Conseil exécutif ont lu le rapport dense et précis du Directeur général à ce  sujet. En dépit de cela, ces mêmes membres ont cru bon d'insister sur la né-  cessité de poursuivre le dialogue avec 1'Etat membre qui s'est retiré afin que  les problèmes qui font l'objet d'un litige entre l'Unesco et cet ancien Etat  membre puissent progressivement être résolus. Mais c'est justement à ce stade des  négociations qu'un groupe d'Etats membres, signataires du projet de résolution  qui fait aujourd'hui l'objet du document 23 C/93, a, jugé opportun d'attirer  l'attention de la Conférence générale sur la nécessite de fournir au Directeur  général et au Conseil exécutif les compléments nécessaires, tant sur le plan de  l'information que de la décision, afin de permettre à l'organisation de prendre  les mesures les plus appropriées. Ce n'est donc pas un exercice purement intel-  lectuel ou de spéculation métaphysique : ce sont des préoccupations concrètes qui  sont à la base de cette démarche et qui font l'objet des deux grands rapports  soumis à notre examen, l'un du Comité juridique, l'autre de la Commission  administrative.
40.4 Lorsqu'on évoque le problème du "statut d'observateur'', ce n'est pas  pour refuser ce statut aux Etats-Unis d'Amérique : les Etats-Unis d'Amérique ont  déjà cette qualité d'observaceur. La preuve en est qu'ils sont ici à Sofia.  Personne ne leur a refusé l'accès à la salle de conférence, ni l'accès à la  documentation. J'aimerais qu'on n'oublie pas cela. Mais ce que nous aimerions  voir adopté et soutenu par la Conférence générale, ce sont des dispositions  complémentaires propres à faire en sorte que ces facilités d'observateur ne  viennent pas alourdir l'atmosphère, la coopération entre cet ancien Etat membre  et l'Organisation, et encore moins alourdir les dépenses de l'Organisation privée  de l'apport de cet ancien Etat membre. Je crois qu'il faudrait bien garder cela à  l'esprit. C'est pourquoi on ne saurait se réfugier derrière des arguments  généraux tels que "le statut d'observateur a toujours existé, donc il n'y a pas  de discrimination à faire", car si le statut a bien existé, il visait des Etats  qui n'étaient pas encore membres de l'organisation et qui demandaient à le  devenir. Mais il ne s'agissait pas d'Etats qui s'étaient retirés et qui deman-  daient à bénéficier de ce statut d'observateur. L'on a souvent dit que d'éminents  délégués de certaines parties du monde faisaient preuve d'esprit éminemment  cartésien, mais je crois que c'est précisément le moment de faire preuve d'esprit  cartésien. I1 y a bel et bien analyse différentielle d'une situation différen-  ciée. C'est extrêmement important, mais cela ne veut pas dire qu'on refuse toute  facilité et toute possibilité aux Etats-Unis en qualité d'observateur. Loin de  nous cette pensée ! Mais nous aimerions bien que l'on reconnaisse qu'il y a une  différence entre un Etat qui choisit délibérément de se retirer d'une organisa-  tion et de revenir en tant qu'observateur, et un Etat qui n'a pas encore ratifié  la Convention créant l'organisation. C'est une différence de nature qu'il faut  absolument avoir à l'esprit, Monsieur le Président. Et je suis absolument surpris  de voir qu'on voudrait biffer, pour des motifs purement politiques, cette  différence de nature. Voilà un premier niveau de politisation que j'aimerais voir  évité.
40.5 En second lieu, Monsieur le Président, il n'y a aucun esprit de ven-  geance à l'égard des Etats-Unis, mais simplement un esprit de clarification. Nous  voudrions que les choses soient très claires. C'est pourquoi nous avions demandé  à notre Comité juridique de nous aider à clarifier les éléments en discussion ;  c'est ce qu'il a fait en nous présentant son rapport, publié sous la cote
23 C/103. Je ne vois pas pourquoi l'on s'obstine, non sans arrière-pensées  politiques, à affirmer qu'il faut refuser toute discrimination et ainsi à éluder  le problème qui nous est soumis, quitte à dire après : il appartiendra au  Directeur général et au Conseil exécutif de continuer à négocier. C'est trop  facile, Monsieur le Président. J'aimerais que la Conference générale prenne ses  responsabilités ici. Prenant pour sa part ses responsabilités, la délégation  centrafricaine soutient l'argumentation développée aux paragraphes 7 et 8 du  document 23 (21103. Je crois effectivement qu'en poursuivant la réflexion dans le  sens des principes qui y sont dégagés, la Conférence générale pourrait définir  une position claire afin que le Conseil exécutif et le Secrétariat, avec à sa  tête le Directeur général, sachent sur quelles bases travailler.
40.6 En ce qui concerne le problème de l'opportunité de consulter la Cour  internationale de justice de La Haye, je me souviens de l'argumentation qui a été  développée au sein du Conseil exécutif. Tout d'abord il a été dit qu'on ne  pouvait pas consulter la Cour parce que cela soulèverait des problèmes d'ordre  juridique, administratif et même financier, et que cela reviendrait à traduire en  justice les Etats-Unis d'Amérique. Mais il ne vient à l'esprit de personne de
1031    traduire en justice les Etats-Unis d'Amérique. I1 s'agit de clarifier l'inter-  prétation des dispositions constitutionnelles. Tout le monde se réclame de l'Acte  constitutif et de la nécessité de l'interpréter de façon rigoureuse. Mais voilà  bien un cas où l'on a besoin d'éclaircissements pour faire une interprétation  rigoureuse. Mais qui a peur de quoi et qui a peur de qui ? Nous voulons la  transparence, nous voulons que 1 'Unesco travaille dans la transparence. Or, une  occasion se présente, sans incidences budgétaires - le paragraphe 15 du rapport  du Comité juridique le précise nettement. Eh bien ! que l'on pose cette  question !
40.7 Mais pourquoi présumer de la réponse de la Cour internationale de  justice en disant : "c'est un exercice inutile, car 1'Etat visé ne se conformera  pas à l'avis'' ? A ceux qui avancent cette argumentation sous prétexte de vouloir  défendre le point de vue des Etats-Unis, je réponds, avec tout le respect que je  leur dois, qu'ils ne défendent pas du tout les Etats-Unis. Au contraire, ils  laissent transparaître de cet Etat l'image d'un Etat qui ne serait pas un Etat de  droit, qui ne respecterait pas les convenances internationales et qui foulerait  au pied les principes de la coopération internationale. Je ne pense pas que ce  soit le cas. Les Etats-Unis n'ont.jamais été un Etat de ce genre, que je sache.  Aussi je ne crois pas qu'il soit défendable de se réfugier derrière une argu-  mentation de type politique pour empêcher la Conférence générale de se prononcer  sur la consultation éventuelle de la Cour internationale de justice.
40.8 D'aucuns soutiennent par ailleurs que si nous sollicitons un tel avis,  cela risque de repousser le retour des Etats-Unis au sein de l'Unesco. Mais cette  argumentation ne tient pas plus. Nous avons vu en d'autres occasions les  Etats-Unis adopter certaines positions et, au vu de l'évolution de la situation  sociopolitique, aussi bien au plan national qu'au plan international, faire  preuve de réalisme et de souplesse. Car, comment croire que les Etats-Unis  pourraient manquer de lucidité et de clairvoyance au point de penser qu'ils  peuvent continuer indéfiniment à défier toute la communauté internationale,  notamment au sein de l'Unesco ? Monsieur le Président, ma délégation est donc  favorable à ce que la Cour internationale de justice de La Haye soit consultée et  que l'on poursuive parallèlement les négociations avec les autorités américaines  pour que des solutions amiables puissent être trouvées, mais nous sommes abso-  lument fondés à demander que le droit soit dit par la Cour internationale de  justice, car que l'on sollicite ou non l'avis de la Cour internationale de  justice, les Etats-Unis ne reviendront pas à l'Unesco s'ils ne le veulent pas.  Souvenez-vous, nous n'avons ménagé aucun effort pour négocier avec la délégation  américaine pendant la vingt-deuxième session de la Conférence générale. Comme  chacun le sait, les Etats-Unis sont partis malgré tout de l'Unesco. En somme,  Monsieur le Président, toutes les précautions oratoires déployées ici pour ne pas  regarder en face les problèmes réels qui ont été créés et la voie qu'il faudrait  suivre pour que le droit soit dit, nous ne les acceptons pas, en dépit du respect  que nous avons pour toutes les opinions qui s'expriment ici.
40.9 En ce qui concerne le troisième point relatif au personnel, Monsieur le  Président, personne n'a demandé que tous les ressortissar"ts américains du  Secrétairat soient immédiatement mis à pied. Nous avons dit qu'une situation a  été créée par le retrait des Etats-Unis d'Amérique. Le réalisme nous commande de  voir que les autres Etats membres se trouvent pénalisés, qu'on le veuille ou non.  Tous les autres Etats membres sont attachés au statut de la fonction publique  internationale et au principe de l'universalité de l'Unesco, mais nous sommes  placés devant une situation de fait. Doit-on continuer à subir cette situation ou  bien chercher à combler le vide juridique existant, afin de renforcer les  mécanismes qui permettront au Directeur général de l'Unesco de trancher cette  question de compression de personnel en disposant de tous les éléments pertinents  et en s'appuyant sur des directives claires et nettes. Je pense, Monsieur le  Président, que le réalisme nous commande de donner des orientations au Directeur  général et que la proposition qui figure au paragraphe 25 du rapport de la  Commission administrative mériterait d'être largement soutenue par la Conférence  générale. Certes, je sais que de nombreux amendements ont été proposés ça et là  pour essayer d'améliorer ce texte, mais je souhaiterais que l'on se souvienne que  le mieux est parfois l'ennemi du bien lorsque nous rassemblerons tous ces amen-  dements pour les confier à l'appréciation et à l'analyse du DNG. En effet,  Monsieur le Président, le DNG est l'organe que nous avons chargé de négocier et  d'étudier en profondeur tous les points de divergence que la Conférence générale  peut rencontrer au moment crucial de ses débats. Eh bien, tel est le cas : les  nombreux problèmes soulevés ici mériteraient d'être analysés à la lumière de la  synthèse des débats qui devrait faire l'objet d'un rapport succinct soumis au  DNG. I1 appartiendra à celui-ci d'en tenir compte dans l'examen des différentes  propositions qui lui seront soumises.
40.10 Pour terminer, Monsieur le Président, je voudrais dire que la délégation  centrafricaine s'est toujours montrée ouverte à toute forme de discussion et à  toute forme d'échange en vue d'aboutir à un consensus renforcé. Nous en avons à
1032    maintes reprises apporté la preuve. Je pense que nous n'avons pas de craintes  politiques à avoir lorsqu'il s'agit de clarifier les problèmes qui méritent  clarification, car les clarifications d'aujourd'hui serviront de jalon pour un  meilleur consensus demain. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
41. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le délégué de la République centrafricaine. I1 était le  dernier orateur inscrit 'sur la liste avant sa clôture. Cependant, les délégations  de six pays ont ensuite demandé 5 prendre la parole : le Guatemala, la  Nouvelle-Zélande, l'Autriche, l'Irlande et la Turquie. Les trois premiers l'ont  fait ce matin, les deux derniers, cet après-midi. Est-il acceptable de leur  accorder la possibilité de prendre la parole ? Le délégué du Japon souhaite  prendre position sur cette question.
42. Mr HOMMA (Japan) :  Thank you, Mr President. I have no problem with the idea of giving the  floor to those who have asked for the floor after the list of speakers was  closed, but given the constraints of time, I think that the only possible sol-  ution we have is to limit the length of their interventions to five minutes.  Thank you, Mr President.
43. Le PRESIDENT :  Le délégué du Royaume-Uni demande lui aussi la parole ?
44. Mr PETTITT (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland):  stage.  Mr President, merely to ask that I be given the right to. reply at some
45. Le PRESIDENT :  Puis-je considérer que la Conférence adopte la proposition faite par le  délégué du Japon et tendant à accorder la parole à ces six orateurs en les priant  de ne pas dépasser cinq minutes chacun ? I1 n'y a pas d'objections ? Alors  j'invite le délégué du Guatemala à prendre la parole.
(46.1) Mr PUTZEYS ALVAREZ (Guatemala) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr President. I must say I feel rather restricted, not  only by the time you have allowed us, in accordance with the proposal, but because to  speak on such a subject at this perhaps rather late stage prevents us from fully  expressing our views on the bases of the case. However, I shall observe the limitation  that has placed us at a disadvantage in a long debate in.which several speakers have  spoken for well over 15 or 20 minutes.
(46.2) Mr President, I should first like to make the following points. I think that  this difficult situation has arisen because the Executive Board referred to the  General Conference a problem on which it had not reached a decision, for quite under-  standable reasons. Perhaps in future it would be helpful if the Executive Board did  not refer to the General Conference - as if it were a subsidiary organ - questions on  which it should itself have made specific recommendations. As I understand it, if the  General Conference is asked to conduct studies, if questions are put to it and it is  invited to consider and define possible solutions, it must be able to express its  views on the specific aspects being dealt with.
(46.3) As far as 'observer capacity' is concerned, Mr President, I feel that if  observer facilities were granted to a country by a decision endorsed by the Executive  Board, it would be inappropriate for the General Conference to take any other decision  which would, in substance, invalidate the Executive Board's decision. The observer  facilities granted are compatible with the continuing negotiations and are indicative  of the spirit of conciliation all of which is helping to resolve this problem.
(46.4) As regards the consultation with the Court of the Hague, my delegation does  not oppose it but wishes to point out that the possible outcome must be borne in mind.  In so far as this consultation of the International Court is likely to encourage or in  some way lead to a positive outcome my country does not oppose it. But I must point  out that what is important is to insist that a climate of conciliation and a willing-  ness to negotiate be maintained, in consonance with what we have all said, that is,  that we regret the withdrawal of a Nember State and would like it to reconsider its  decision.
(46.5) This is why we have undertaken a process of reform and certain measures are  being taken that may produce tangible and objective results. I am therefore opposed to  disrupting the spirit of conciliation by introducing any punitive criterion whatsoever  or by considering elements which, when all is said and done, could be counter-  productive.
(46.6) With regard to the question of personnel: briefly, we declare our unqualified  opposition to any measures based on the criterion of nationality. There are two con-  ditions that are closely linked: one is the competence, quality and efficiency of the  staff, and the other is the principle of equitable geographical distribution. Here we  have two conditions that are. not mutually exclusive; they are complementary. On the  question of staff recruitment, we feel that the Director-General possesses powers by  virtue of existing regulations and of the Constitution, which he should apply with  scrupulous care and fairness. I agree that he should then be given the power - which  he already has under existing regulations - to take decisions regarding the renewal of  contracts, taking into account competence and the principle of equitable geographical  distribution.
(46.7) I should also like to emphasize that there is no need to don straitiackets or  to confuse means with ends. The staff should be respected because, regardless of their  individual nationalities, they are by definition international; those are the prin-  ciples inherent in the international civil service and the ones by which we should be  guided. Mr President, I should have liked to say much more and give more reasons for  my conclusions, but the shears that have cut down other speakers' time prevent me from  speaking at greater length. So I must set before you the criteria that guide my  delegation in this abbreviated form. Thank you.
47. Le PRESIDENT :  la Nouvelle-Zélande.  Je remercie le délégué du Guatemala et je donne la parole au délégué de
48.1 Mr BARRETT (New Zealand):  Thank you, Mr President, I hope to be brief. With regard to the report  of the Administrative Commission, we believe that continued employment of inter-  national civil servants should depend on their efficiency, competence, integrity  and length of service. These are the main criteria, and nationality or citizen-  ship to our eyes is a criterion that applies to recruitment of new staff under  the principles of geographical representation.
48.2 On the report of the Legal Committee, with regard to the question of  observer status, New Zealand considers that no distinction exists between  countries seeking observer status, since the principle qualification is non-  membership and that applies both to those which have never been members and to  those which have withdrawn. That being the case, it follows also that they must  be treated equally in terms of costs to be charged for facilities. A country  seeking observer status signals its interest in the work of the Organization, and  that must be welcomed by us all.
48.3 Conditionality on observer status cannot be applied unilaterally by one  single organization, Mr President. Indeed, this question has wide ramifications  affecting the whole of the United Nations system. It could even be argued that  any review of observer status must also affect the relationships between organ-  izations of the United Nations family since it is arguable that international  organizations should enjoy a more privileged status than that of sovereign  States. In any case, such a review would normally be undertaken by a plenipoten-  tary conference convened for that purpose. New Zealand cannot therefore support  paragraphs 8(a), (b) and (d) of the Legal Committee's report.
48.4 Mr President, with regard to seeking an advisory opinion from the Inter-  national Court of Justice, we would prefer Unesco - whether through the Sec-  retariat, the Executive Board or some other channel - to continue discussions  with the United States in order to seek a solution to the problem.
48.5 The issues we have before us are contentious and they should be referred  to a working group or to the Drafting and Negotiation Group for further consider-  ation. The temptation to draw up regulations governing observer status must be  resisted for the reasons I have mentioned earlier.
48.6 In conclusion, Mr President, we would like to join those who believe  that caution must be exercised and that good sense and realism should prevail so  that universality may be secured once more for our Organization. Thank you,  Mr President.
49. Le PRESIDENT :  tant de l'Autriche à prendre la parole.
50.1 Mr ZEMANEK (Austria) :  Thank you, Mr President, our statement will be very short, for two  reasons. First, we wish to abide by your appeal and secondly we believe that the  matter has been amply discussed and positions are clear. We shall therefore limit  ourselves to those points which determine our position.
50.2 In the report of the Legal Committee, reference is frequently made to  the 1975 Vienna Convention on the Representation of States in their Relations  with International Organizations of a Universal Character. And at one point of  the report, several Member States are credited with the view that the Convention  represents 'an important stage in the work of codifying and gradually developing  international law'. My government does not share that view. In fact, Austria  together with 14 other host countries of international organizations abstained in  the final vote on that Convention in the Vienna Conference, for the reason that  it struck an unfair balance between the rights of sending States and the duties  of host States. We are therefore not of the opinion that the Convention as a  Je remercie le délégué de la Nouvelle-Zélande et j 'invite le représen-
1035    whole is an expression of existing international law. Our view is supported by  the fact that despite the 10 years that have passed since its adoption, the Con-  vention has not yet been put into force. Furthermore, no declaration making it  applicable to Unesco has been deposited.
50.3 However, Mr President, we do not see any need to have recourse to that  Convention for solving the issue at hand. If Unesco is looking for precedents  concerning an observer status for a non-Member State, the practice of most  Specialized Agencies in the United Nations family and of the United Nations it-  self will provide them in ample numbers. This is also true for the rare case of a  State which has withdrawn from an organization. When, after the election of the  then Federation of Malaya to the Security Council, Indonesia announced its with-  drawal from the United Nations Organization, the Organization and its Secretariat  did their utmost to assure continued contact with that State, with a view to  facilitating its return. We all, Mr President, remember the happy outcome of that  policy. One and a half years later, Indonesia resumed its place in the United  Nations Organization.
50.4 Permit me now, Mr President, to add a few words on the desirability of  requesting an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice on the  financial obligations of a Member State which withdraws from the Organization in  the course of a budgetary period. Quite candidly, Mr President, my delegation has  doubts that as far as its substance is concerned the request is well-founded in  law. To consider it well-founded amounts to the proposition that an international  organization may, through adopting administrative regulations - and the choice of  the budgetary period is an administrative decision - revise a constitutional  provision. Were this view accepted, organizations would be well advised to adopt  very long budgetary periods. Be that as it may, Mr President, it should be very  clear that advisory proceedings before the International Court of Justice will  require outside advice and consequently expenditure.
50.5 The reference in paragraph 15 of the report of the Legal Committee to  the 1956 advisory proceedings which involved Unesco is misleading. Those proceed-  ings dealt with contracts of employment of Unesco personnel, and it is obvious  that the Organization's lawyers were most experienced in those matters. The  interpretation of the Constitution of an international organization - an inter-  pretation that must be seen in the wider context of the general law of inter-  national organizations because of the far-reaching effects which the opinion  might have on other international organizations - is quite a different matter.  Moreover, Mr President, the effect which such an advisory opinion might have on  the State whose withdrawal has already taken effect is, to say the least, doubt-  ful. By that I do not only mean that such a State is no longer bound by the con-  stitutional provision which the International Court of Justice would be called  upon to interpret; what I have in mind is the non-retroactive effect of advisory  opinions of the Court and consequently of the interpretation which it might give  to a particular constitutional provision.
50.6 The foregoing considerations, Mr President, lead us to the conclusion  that the issue should be settled amiably. We hope that the deliberations and con-  clusions of this General Conference will clear the way for such a settlement.  Thank you, Mr President.
51. Le PRESIDENT :  à prendre la parole.  Je remercie le délégué de l'Autriche et j'invite le délégué de l'Irlande
52.1 Mr LYONS (Ireland):  Thank you, Mr President. The General Conference is asked in document
23 C/93 to 'examine and define the reciprocal rights and obligations of the  Organization and a Member State which withdraws and which might on request have  observer status'. This is a matter on which the Legal Committee has not been able  to give us an agreed opinion. My delegation cannot help asking whether the  General Conference is the best forum in which to come to decisions on questions  of this kind which involve the law and practice of international organizations  and seem to require wide expertise in that field. Reference has been made on a  number of occasions to the Vienna Convention of 1975. In the view of my  delegation, the provisions of that Convention at the very least make it clear  that there is a question which requires further study. The problem is a complex  one and the time available to us here is very short.
52.2 My delegation notes the reference in the report of the Legal Committee,  paragraph 5.11, to the fact the appointment of an observer mission by a State  which has not yet joined Unesco is taken as a sign of interest and that accord-  ingly representatives of such a State should be given the broadest possible  facilities. My delegation does not see why the appointment of an observer mission  by a State which has withdrawn should not also be regarded as a sign of interest;
1036    it was surely open to that State to sever all dealings with the Organization. My  delegation does not, therefore, see any grounds for making distinctions on this  basis and is in favour of approaching this issue on the basis of non-  discrimination.
52.3 Mr President, my delegation, like others which have already spoken,  finds the language used in paragraph 8(a) of the report of the Legal Committee  puzzling. We find it hard to understand how the appointment of an observer  mission can be seen as threatening the interests of the Organization. The Con-  ference should in our view beware of appearing to impute motives or make value  judgements. As regards paragraph 2(a) of document 23 C/93 relating to the ques-  tion of seeking an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice, the  important word appears to us to be 'desirability'. My delegation agrees fully  with one group of countries which has asked what appears to us to be the real  question: What would the Organization stand to gain from such a step? We are not  under pressure to take it. Would it not be preferable and more prudent to explore  other avenues which may offer possibilities for an amicable solution? Ideally, my  delegation - and I am sure all others - would like to see this question solved in  the context of the return of that State to the Organization. But for the present  we see no good reason for pressing ahead with moves which could give the current  unhappy situation a character of greater finality.
52.4 With regard to paragraph 3 of document 23 C/93, my delegation believes  that in the difficult situation created by reduction of resources the qualities  of efficiency and dedication would be all the more important within the Sec-  retariat. The Constitution appears to us to be clear in this regard. Article VI.4  states that ' securing the highest standards of integrity, efficiency and tech-  nical competence' is 'the paramount consideration'. My delegation must also ques-  tion whether it is realistic to expect the Secretariat to fulfil the many tasks  which fall to it if it is to be deprived over a short period of the services of  experienced and dedicated personnel simply on the basis of their nationality. The  interests of the Organization are in our view best served by faithful adherence  to the constitutional provision I have referred to.
52.5 As regards operative paragraph l(c) in the draft resolution in document
23 C/102 Add. and Corr., it would not in our view be reasonable or in the best  interests of the Organization always to give lower priority to candidates'however  well qualified they may be simply on the grounds that they come from non-Member  States.
52.6 With regard to paragraph 4(a) of document 23 C/93, it seems clear to us  that the answer must be in the affirmative. To say that such contracts may not be  renewed would not in our view take the best interests of the Organization into  account.
52.7 Mr President, my delegation considers that above all it is important for  the Conference to approach the questions before it in a spirit of flexibility and  readiness to seek solutions without having precipitate recourse to measures which  could prove counter-productive. We have to keep in mind that the decision we take  will inevitably have consequences. Some proposals have been made as to how we  should now proceed. My delegation sees particular merit in a proposal by one  group of Member States for a special working group to study the questions which  have arisen. This procedure would enable the Organization to approach these com-  plicated issues with the time, preparation and deliberation they require. Thank  you, Mr President.
53. Le PRESIDENT :  à prendre la parole.
54.1 M. SANALAN (Turquie) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je suis un peu désolé d'avoir demandé et  pris la parole à cette heure si tardive, Monsieur le Président, mais comme il a  été décidé, je serai très bref. D'ailleurs les orateurs qui m'ont précédé ont  déjà abondamment expliqué avec suffisamment de clarté tous les aspects politiques  et juridiques de la question. Je veux seulement ajouter que la position de ma  délégation à ce sujet s'appuie sur deux principes fondamentaux qui ont été déjà  mentionnés dans les déclarations faites par le représentant de mon pays, au cours  du débat de politique générale. Le premier, c'est que notre soutien à l'organi-  sation est total ; le second c'est qu'il faut tout faire pour préserver le  caractère universel de l'organisation.
54.2 C'est pourquoi, Monsieur le Président, quelles que soient les procédures  à choisir pour résoudre les questions découlant du retrait des Etats-Unis, il  nous semble que nous devons tenir compte de la nécessité d'établir un consensus  qui laisserait toutes les options ouvertes et la réintégration possible.  Je remercie le délégué de l'Irlande et j'invite le délégué de la Turquie
54.3 Nous pensons aussi qu'il faut inscrire dans toutes les résolutions la  possibilité du retour et que le climat de coopération devra dominer toutes les  négociations à effectuer à ce sujet.
54.4 Quant aux questions intéressant le personnel occasionnées par le  retrait, je me contenterai simplement de rappeler qu'il y a dans l'organisation  des pays qui ne sont pas encore en mesure d être normalement représentés au sein  du personnel i mais là encore, nous pensons que l'esprit de consensus doit  prévaloir.
54.5 Enfin, je dirai que je me rallie entièrement au voeu exprimé avant moi  par d'autres délégations, le voeu de faire en sorte que la solution du problème  qui se pose actuellement à l'organisation ne soit pas de nature à mettre en cause  la survie de l'Unesco. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
55. Le PRESIDENT :  la Tchécoslovaquie.
56.1 Mr 8MfD (Czechoslovakia) :  Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, during my intervention on this  item the day before yesterday, I reserved my right to intervene again. It is  necessary. I am very thankful to you for giving me the floor.
56.2 I have two points tc make, Mr President. The first point concerns the  question of whether to give the draft resolution - I mean the consensus resol-  ution - submitted to us by the Administrative Commission to the Drafting and  Negotiation Group. I am afraid that would not be a good procedure, overloading  the Drafting and Negotiation Group. And the main fact is that the Administrative  Commission presented us with a consensus resolution. I myself voiced a certain  lack of happiness about the content of the resolution of the Administrative Com-  mission, considering it rather weak and representing no particular progress in  comparison with what has already been said and agreed in the Executive Board.  There are several or many comments: some of our colleagues consider it weak like  me; some of our colleagues have had objections to it. I think the best solution  would be to adopt the consensus, and that all these various informal suggestions  and amendments should be reflected in the verbatim records, in the proceedings of  the meeting. And perhaps there might be a compromise solution that those informal  suggestions and amendments be the subject of consultations with those sponsors  who were the authors of the consensus in the Administrative Commission. That is  my first point; I am having to keep to the limit of five minutes.
56.3 My second point might be considered minor in character, but I do not  think it is negligible.
57. Le PRESIDENT :  Le délégué de la Tchécoslovaquie demande à poursuivre. I1 fait partie de  ceux qui ont réservé leur droit de prendre la parole une deuxième fois, et dont  nous avons toute une liste. Je lui demanderai d'être très bref afin que nous  puissions lever la séance dès que possible. Monsieur le délégué de la Tchéco-  slovaquie, vous avez la parole.
58. Mr %MID (Czechoslovakia) :  Thank you, Mr President. I think I need just three more minutes. My  second point is that I was amused to hear again the name of Singapore during our  debate - its notice of withdrawal from Unesco being put on the same level as the  United Kingdom's notice of withdrawal. But the case there, I mean as regards the  notice by Singapore, is a completely different one. The distinguished colleagues  might recall that the notice of withdrawal from Singapore was substantiated by  the assessment of its contribution being too high. There was no hint of criticism  of the programme of Unesco, of politicization and so on; just the economic con-  siderations. Of course, Unesco cannot be blamed for the scale of assessment of  contributions. This has been elaborated by the Committee on Contributions of the  United Nations and discussed in the Fifth Committee of the General Assembly and  approved by the General Assembly. The Specialized Agencies take this scale of  assessment and adjust it according to their specific conditions, membership and  so on, without changing the basic line of the scale of contributions. So, of  course, there is a question of why Unesco has been chosen by Singapore. It is  none of my business; I do not want to interfere in the domestic matters of  Singapore; but there are other Specialized Agencies whose contribution& are  higher than in the case of Unesco. Well I prefer to remain in darkness, unless  somebody enlightens me, why it was precisely Unesco which was chosen for the  notice of withdrawal by Singapore, a country from the Third World. Now I am  concluding, Mr President, by expressing the humble hope that the clumsy efforts  to involve a developing country in the issue which is discussed here and to put  the matter on the same level as the business of withdrawal be stopped. I thank  you, Sir.  Je remercie le délégué de la Turquie et je donne la parole au délégué de  f
59. Le PRESIDENT :  Je donne la parole au délégué de la Suède, seulement pour qu'il nous  lise un amendement qu'il propose. 11 l'a d'ailleurs communiqué au Secrétariat  pour que l'on puisse en tenir compte.
60. Mr ADAHL (Sweden) :  Thank you, Mr President. It seems that the proposal of the Nordic  countries was somewhat misunderstood. We also want to facilitate the negotiations  which we believe should take place, for example within the framework of the  Drafting and Negotiation Group, and because of that we would like to propose that  in the draft resolution in document 23 C/102 Add. and Corr., paragraph 25, there  should be another preambular paragraph to read: 'Conscious of the mutual under-  takings of Unesco and the United Nations "to develop common personnel standards,  methods and arrangements designed to avoid serious discrepancies in terms and  conditions of employment"'. We could add a parenthesis giving the reference,  which is Article XII.l of the 1946 Agreement. Thank you, Mr President.
61. Le PRESIDENT :  délégué du Royaume-Uni qui souhaite user de son droit de réponse.  Je remercie le délégué de la Suède. Je donne maintenant la parole au
62.1 Mr PETTITT (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland):  Thank you, Mr President. The distinguished delegates of Australia and  Ghana suggested it was inappropriate to argue from the provisions of the Vienna  Convention while the Convention was not in force and had not been ratified by  Member States. Mr Whitlam was, of course, quite correct in point.ing out that the  United Kingdom, Australia and others had not ratified the Convention and indeed  that the provisions regarding observers constitute one of the areas of outstand-  ing difficulty. However, in our intervention we carefully in anticipation of this  point drew on Article 83 of the Vienna Convention which refers to the well-  established principle of non-discrimination between States: only in passing did  we refer to the provisions regarding observer status.
62.2 Our references were intended to be helpful in light of the view of many  Member States that the Convention is an important stage in codifying and gradu-  ally developinq international law. But as the distinguished delegate for; Austria  has just explained, there is no need to rely on the Convention for the argument.  The established principle of non-discrimination which is reflected in Article 83  is quite sufficient.
62.3 Now, as regards the points made by the Chairman of the Administrative  Commission about the nature of the agreement recorded on the proposed draft  resolution, I am very sorry that he mistook my delegation's comments on the  hurried way the report had had to be assembled as a personal criticism. I know  that he considered it appropriate that outstanding points of difference should be  brought up in plenary; we have now done this and with the intention of improving  and not weakening the resolution.
62.4 Finally, Mr President, may I have a minute to respond to the helpful  suggestions by Mr Wynter concerning the ideas we put forward about the compromise  resolution which emerged from the Administrative Commission. I undertake urgently  to consult my authorities on whether the explanation given in respect of oper-  ative paragraph l(d) of the draft resolution is sufficient to permit us to with-  draw our reservation. I feel sure that the incorporation of the proposal by the  distinguished delegate of France would weigh heavily in favour of this with-  drawal.
62.5 I recorded with interest the explanation given by Mr Wynter on para-  graph 2. If I understand it correctly, this paragraph is not intended to refer to  a search for new measures to reduce the numbers of members of staff of a non-  Member State but as a polite way of making the fairly obvious point that more of  the same measures will probably need to be taken if the United Kingdom and  Singapore cease to be members in 1986. It had, I am afraid, not occurred to my  delegation to read it in this way, despite long periods spent in trying to see  what the section really meant. I suspect others will not also. So the retention  of it can do nothing but spread unnecessary concern amongst individuals poten-  tially affected. For this reason, I think the wisest proposal is that made by  various distinguished delegates to drop this paragraph and the one which follows  it. Thank you, Mr President.
63. Le PRESIDENT :  Je donne la parole au délégué de l'Algérie pour une motion d'ordre.
64. M. RAHAL (Algérie) :  Monsieur le Président, je vous rappelle que j'avais demandé à avoir la  possibilité de reprendre la parole s'il était présenté des arguments qu'il me
1039    paraissait devoir réfuter. C'est le cas justement dans c,e droit de réponse. Je ne  sais pas d'ailleurs si ce que vient de dire le délégué de la Grande-Bretagne  entre ou non dans le cadre de l'exercice du droit de réponse ; aussi je me  demande, Monsieur le Président, si vous voulez bien me permettre de répondre à ce  droit de réponse.
65. Le PRESIDENT :  C'est la règle.
66.1 M. RAHAL (Algérie) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Le délégué de la Grande-Bretagne a parlé  de plusieurs points sur lesquels je, ne reviendrai pas, bien que je ne sois pas  d'accord avec lui. Je voudrais seulement parler de ce consensus qui a été obtenu  à la Commission administrative.
66.2 J'ai l'impression que la notion de consensus change de signification  selon les circonstances i lorsque nous avons parlé de consensus - et Dieu sait si  nous en avons parlé souvent et longtemps - j'ai été de ceux qui ont mis en garde  contre une exploitation du consensus qui consiste à obtenir de ses partenaires  des concessions, à les enregistrer et ensuite à oublier celles qu'on a faites  soi-même pour réclamer davantage de concessions du partenaire. I1 est bien  certain que telle n'est pas notre conception du consensus.
66.3 Monsieur le Président, la résolution qui a été présentée dans le rapport  de la Commission administrative a été adoptée par consensus après de longues et  difficiles négociations. Toutes les délégations sont représentées à la Commission  administrative et je dois dire que toutes ces délégations ont accueilli avec  soulagement le texte adopté par consensus et n'ont pas tari d'éloges à l'égard de  ceux qui s'étaient appliqués à mettre au point un tel texte. Aussi, pourquoi les  amendements qui nous sont proposés aujourd'hui n'ont-ils pas été proposés à ce  moment-là ? Pourquoi veut-on aujourd'hui, par cette méthode que j'ai décrite au  début et que je ne peux pas accepter, vouloir modifier le texte sur lequel nous  étions d'accord ? On nous dit qu on veut améliorer le consensus. Mais c'est une  notion très subjective. Pour ma part, je considère qu'au contraire, ces amen-  dements déséquilibrent complètement le texte sur lequel nous nous étions mis  d'accord.
66.4 Alors, Monsieur le Président, je dis ceci : reprenons une phrase que  j'ai entendue ce matin de mon ami le représentant du Niger. Je dirai que c'est  une étrange méthode que de rechercher un consensus en commençant par détruire le  consensus qu'on avait déjà obtenu. Monsieur le Président, je pense que nous nous  engageons-là dans une voie très dangereuse. Si nous ouvrons à nouveau des dis-  cussions comme celles-ci, le groupe de coauteurs que je représente, se consi-  dérera libéré de tout consensus et le débat reprendra depuis ses origines. Je ne  le souhaite pas, mais je considère que nous sommes des gens sérieux et lorsque  nous avons donné notre accord à un texte, lorsque nous y avons applaudi, eh bien,  nous serons très mal venus de dire ensuite qu'il n'est pas parfait.
66.5 I1 est clair qu'un texte de consensus ne peut pas être parfait et, comme  je l'ai déjà dit en d'autres occasions, un texte de consensus est bon dans la  mesure OU il comporte une répartition équitable de l'insatisfaction. Je crois que  tel est le cas. C'est pourquoi j'appelle tous mes collègues à la sagesse. Qu'on  n'essaie pas de faire mieux, puisque de toute façon chacun sait que le mieux est  l'ennemi du bien. Monsieur le Président, j'insiste beaucoup sur ce point. Cette  Conférence serait menacée s'il fallait reprendre à zéro tout le processus de  négociation. Je tiens à vous dire d'ailleurs que ce texte de consensus a été  négocié entre M. Wynter et moi-même. Chacun de vous connaît les qualités d'ora-  teur de M. Wynter et ses qualités encore plus redoutables de négociateur et je ne  fais pas vraiment le poids en face de lui. Du reste, mes coauteurs m'ont blâmé  lorsque je leur ai présenté le texte sur lequel nous étions tombés d'accord ;  j'ai presque perdu toute crédibilité auprès d'eux. Si nous rouvrons ces dis-  cussions, je pense que nous allons nous engager dans une voie très difficile et  je demande que chacun mesure ses responsabilités dans ce domaine.
66.6 Monsieur le Président, d'un autre côté, puisqu'on a parlé à nouveau de  ce Groupe de travail qu'on doit créer, je voudrais souligner, à l'intention de  tous nos collègues ici, que les clivages qui sont apparus dans ce débat  n'épousent pas les frontières des groupes régionaux. Les Etats appartenant à un  même groupe régional n'ont pas nécessairement le même avis sur cette question.  Or, le Groupe de rédaction et de négociation est un organe qui est formé sur une  base régionale, c'est-à-dire où chaque membre représente une région. Comment  voulez-vous que le DNG s'occupe d'un problème comme celui que nous avons discuté  ici ? Je serais favorable Monsieur le Président, à la rigueur, à la formation  d'un petit qroupe restreint qui tâcherait d'élaborer un texte susceptible de  recueillir 1 adhésion de tous ; mais je serais opposé à ce que cette discussion  se fasse au niveau du DNG pour la raison même que je viens d'exprimer. Je vous
1040    dirai que je crois davantage à des négociations directes - qui d'ailleurs se sont  déjà engagées - parce que, comme je l'avais signalé dans mon intervention, j'ai  déposé aujourd'hui même avec un ensemble de coauteurs un projet de résolution qui  est déjà connu de certains et sur lequel des négociations ont déjà commencé.
66.7 Donc, Monsieur le Président, à mon avis la meilleure méthode, c'est de  continuer comme ceci. C'est cette formule qui a permis à la Commission admi-  nistrative d'élaborer un texte qui a, à l'époque, recueilli l'adhésion de tous. A  ia rigueur, il pourrait être créé un petit groupe très léger, représentatif, non  des régions géographiques, mais plutôt des différentes tendances. Voilà ma  conception des choses : voilà, Monsieur le Président, ce que je voulais ajouter à  la suite de mon collègue de la Grande-Bretagne. Je m'excuse d'avoir prolongé un  peu plus la séance, mais je pensais qu'il était nécessaire que je dise cela. Je  vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
67.1 Le PRESIDENT :  Permettez-moi de rappeler la procédure que nous suivons. La liste des  orateurs a été close. J'ai, en vertu de l'Article 72 du Règlement, autorisé les  délégations à exercer leur droit de réponse, droit dont se sont prévalus le  délégué du Royaume-Uni, ainsi que celui de l'Algérie. D'autres voudraient-ils  faire usage d'un droit de réponse ? Je ne vois personne qui le demande. Je crois  donc que nous pouvons considérer que nous en avons terminé avec le débat.
67.2 Je me permettrai de dire quelques mots, je n'ose dire pour tirer des  conclusions, mais pour réfléchir à la façon dont nous allons poursuivre nos  travaux. Tout d'abord, il me paraît que ce débat a été long mais fructueux, et  que tous les éléments sont réunis pour parvenir à donner, comme cela nous a été  demandé, des indications précises au Directeur général et au Conseil exécutif,  sur la base des rapports et des propositions de la Commission administrative et  du Comité juridique. Tous les délégués ont félicité ces deux organes du travail  qu'ils ont accompli.
67.3 En ce qui concerne le rapport de la Commission administrative, il me  semble que les ajustements et les amendements qui lui ont été apportés sont en  nombre minime. Deux voies s'ouvrent à nous : prendre, par consensus comme tous  les délégués qui ont parlé, sans exception, le préconisent, une décision dès  maintenant ; ou bien remettre la décision à plus tard comme cela a été suggéré.
67.4 En ce qui concerne le rapport du Comité juridique, il a été apporté  certains ajustements au texte qui pourraient facilement être acceptés, mais des  positions opposées ont été exprimées ; des divergences ont même surgi, surtout  sur l'alinéa (d) du paragraphe 8 et sur la consultation de la Cour internationale  de La Haye.
67.5 Enfin, au sujet de la procédure, deux possibilités ont été évoquées,  soit d'établir un groupe restreint de six personnes qui seraient chargées  d'apporter principalement certains ajustements aux propositions de la Commission  administrative, soit de renvoyer toutes les recommandations et propositions  au DNG pour étude. C'est là un choix qu'il serait bon de faire dès ce soir.
67.6 Ensuite, il faudrait aussi prendre une décision quant au second  rapport ; il me semble en effet nécessaire de séparer les deux rapports et de les  traiter l'un après l'autre.
67.7 Le représentant du Canada a demandé la parole.
68. Mr WILSON (Canada):  Thank you, Mr President. I am responding to your request for advice from  us on these two points. I am speaking actually only of the Legal Committee's  report. I wish formally to move that the task of creating a draft resolution -  one I hope to be adopted by consensus - dealing with the Legal Committee's report  should be entrusted to the Drafting and Negotiation Group, on the understanding -  and here I pick up the suggestion by my distinguished friend, Mr Rahal - that it  might itself wish to construct a very small, compact and efficient inner group of  its own. I believe in this way we could perhaps find a happy marriage between the  two ideas. Thank you.
70.1 Mr LUCKHOO (Guyana) :  Thank you, Comrade President. I would support what the distinguished  delegate of Canada has just proposed in relation to the Legal Committee; but as  regards the various suggestions made in relation to amendments to the draft  resolution of the Administrative Commission, I would support wholeheartedly every  Je remercie le délégué du Canada et je donne la parole au délégué du
1041    word which has been spoken by the distinguished delegate of Algeria, because I  was a personal witness to the hard bargaining which went on between the distin-  guished delegate,of Jamaica and the distinguished delegate of Algeria in order to  reach a consensus which at one time I thought was miraculous.
70.2 To take that consensus, which was achieved by very hard, rigorous bar-  gaining, and throw it into a melting-pot again, goodness knows what is going to  come out of it; it is going to distort the whole picture. And one wonders why -  as Mr Rahal has rightly pointed out - if there were amendments to be suggested at  that particular time when that consensus was reached, they were not asked for  then; and why only now to reopen the matter. Comrade President, I think that this  would be inadvisable. Thank you.
71. Le PRESIDENT :  prendre la parole.
72.1 M. RAHAL (Algérie) :  Monsieur le Président, ma délégation a le triste privilège d'être très  éloignée de vous, ce qui fait que je ne sais pas de quelle manière attirer  l'attention du Secrétariat,sur le fait que je demande la parole.
72.2 Monsieur le Président, je ne sais pas s'il est nécessaire que je répète  ce que j'ai dit. Si on estime qu'il faut envoyer le texte de la Commission  administrative au DNG ou à tout autre groupe de travail, ce n'est pas le texte de  la Commission administrative qu'il faut envoyer, c'est le projet initial que  l'Algérie a déposé avec d'autres auteurs. Ce n'est pas le texte adopté par  consensus que nous accepterons de discuter au DNG. I1 faut que cela soit bien  clair.
72.3 Si on rouvre la discussion, ce doit être à partir des positions de  départ, et non à partir des positions adoptées dans l'intérêt du consensus. Je  laisse cela à l'appréciation de la Conférence générale.
72.4 D'un autre côté, j'ai dit mon opinion en ce qui concerne le DNG. Je  préférerais que les discussions se déroulent dans un autre cadre, parce que,  comme je l'ai dit tout à l'heure, les clivages qui sont apparus au cours de ce  débat n'épousent pas les frontières des groupes régionaux. Je préférerais donc  qu'un groupe plus restreint soit formé qui comprendrait des représentants des  opinions différentes qui se sont manifestées ici.
72.5 Je tiens à vous dire également et à répéter que, ayant déposé le texte  de la résolution que j'ai établi avec un certain nombre de coauteurs, je crois  que ce texte pourra être distribué dès demain matin, s'il ne l'est déjà. Certains  de nos collègues ont pu l'obtenir et des négociations sont déjà en cours, négo-  ciations qui progressent à mon avis de manière très prometteuse. Si l'on veut une  méthode plus lourde, plus large, pour donner satisfaction à certaines demandes  dont je ne comprends pas le bien-fondé, c'est l'affaire de la Conférence géné-  rale. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
73. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le délégué du Guyana. J'invite le délégué de l'Algérie à  Je remercie le délégué de l'Algérie et je donne la parole au délégué de  la Chine.
(74.1) Mr LAI (China) (Translation from the Chinese):  Mr President, we are in favour of the proposal made by some delegates just  now that preparation of the draft resolution for document 23 C/93 be entrusted to the  Drafting and Negotiation Group (DNG) rather than that another working group be set up  for that purpose. We take this stand for the following reasons.
(74.2) Firstly, this task falls within the terms of reference of the Drafting and  Negotiation Group, as stipulated in paragraph 83 of document 23 C/2: 'The purpose of  the Drafting and Negotiation Group will be to assist the General Conference in the  consideration of matters that, after debate, require negotiation or broad consultation  and to draft appropriate texts thereon for submission to the General Conference in  plenary meeting'. We should abide by the provisions of this document adopted by the  Conference.
(74.3) Secondly, it might not be easy to reach consensus for the moment as to the  creation of a separate working group, in view of the fact that geographic equilibrium  and representation would have to be taken into account in the composition of the  group. On the other hand, the present Drafting and Negotiation Group, being the result  of full consultations, already reflects geographic equilibrium and representation. It  is capable of bringing the task entrusted to it by the Conference to fruition. If the  Drafting and Negotiation Group deems it necessary to form an even smaller group for  that task it could very well do so on its own initiative. Thank you, Mr President.
75. Le PRESIDENT :  prendre la parole.  Je remercie le délégué de la Chine et j'invite le délégué du Koweït à  (-+JI) PJL-"/UI Y7  &>IaYl '+I cp ?L1 'id ZC+I 1.b L19L 2S-l . '&Leu lj'y &'L .&dl 6" i&  A A A  L Js & > I +  i>Ts &J.ui lb * &=.L Yi ,t u.il . &i +& S I J 3 l  4 j-I J i  -9s  *&JI 6-b- I J - Q ~  4 J L J / d I
(76) Mr AL-SALEM (Kuwait) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. I will be very brief. We discussed this subjyt for  several days in the Administrative Commission, and we reached agreement only with  great difficulty. Therefore, I hope that we will not deviate from the course we have  taken and that we will endorse all that Mr Rahal has said. Thank you, Mr President.
77. Le PRESIDENT :  l'Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques.  Je remercie le délégué du Koweït et je donne la parole au délégué de
78.1 î-H XMJIbqEBCKBn (Com3 COBeTCRHX CounanMCTnYeCRnX Pecny6nn~):  Enaronapm Bac, Tosapmu ilpencenaTenb. 2 yxe MHortïe rom1 ysacTaym B pa6OTe  OpraHH3aUHÜ CHCTeMbI OOH H nOJIXeH npW3HaTbCRr YTO BnepBbIe CTaJlKHBamCb C TaRUM na-  paA0KCanbHbiM nOJIOXeHEIeM, ROFna ii0Cne nJIUTeJIbHblX ne6aTOB Ha nJleHapHOM 3aCenaHHU B  KOMUCCUH no a~MHHHCTpaTMBHb1M BO17pOCaMI n0CJIe DByXnHeBHOÜ nHCKyCCUEI 3neCbr nOCJie  TOrO, KaR BCeMH r0CynapCTBaMEI 6b1n nOCTUrHYT ROHCeHCYC, HaM Bnpyr CHOBa npenJlal?aIOT  HaiipaBHTb TeKCT 3TOr0 KOHCeHCYCa, OnO6peHHbIfi nneHapHbIM 3aCeLlaHHeM AnMHHHCTpaTHB-  HOR ROMUCCHU, Ha KaRoü-To nepecMoTp B rpynny no penamnposaHnm EI CornacoBaHtim...  ilpusem ccblnamcx na reorpaQnuecKoe npencTasnTenbcTBo B  TOR rpynne. TaK YTO xe  MOXeT 6blTb 6onee IIIUPOKMM r€?OI'pa@U~eCKHM npenCTaBMTenbCTBOM,~eM IlJleHapHOe 3aCena-  HHe AnMHHMCTpaTHBHOfi ROMHCCAH MJIA nm6oü ICOMHCCHH? 3T0 Xe HOHCeHC, I'OCnOAa.
78.2 MHe RaXeTCR, YTO Mbl nOJiXHbl 3anYMaTbCR Cepbe3HOI YBaXaeM JiM Mbl CBOEI CO6CT-  BeHHble pemeHnx, yaaxaeM nn MbI aBTopuTeT Hameü Opra~w3auwu? Hnn 3necb npoRBnseTcR  HeysaxeHne IC C O ~ C T B ~ H H ~ I M  pemeHncrM u nenaeTcR nonb1TRa nyTeM npouenypaofi nayTnHb1  MHeHnn, B ~ I C K ~ ~ ~ H H ~ I ~  ysaxaemmn npencTaBmensMw Anxnpa, rafiaabi, KyaekTa, U, nyMam,
3aTRHYTbr COpBaTb peDIeHHe lTpHHUWnUaJlbH0 BaXHOFO BOnpOCa? 2 IïOJïHOCTbH) IlOnnep?lMBaIo  MbI )3OJIH(HbI B3RTb Ha ce6a n0JlHym Mepy OTBeTCTBeHHOCTH 3a TO, rITO MbI JJeJlaeM CerOnHR.
78.3  TO nacaeTcR BO~POCOB, C B R ~ ~ H H ~ I ~  c pa6OTOR U noKnanoM Klpnnauecfforo ROMH-  TeTa, R noMHm,  TO ewe B caMoM Hauane Hamefi nucffyccnil 661~10 B ~ I C K ~ ~ ~ H O  npennoxeawe  r-Ha BwHTepa. Cefisac ero nonnepxan r-H Paxanb U psIn npyrIrx nenerauilü. CnenyeT  HClTOJIbJOBaTb HaMeTHBIiiyiQCR BO3MOXHOCTb Bbipa60TaTb COl?JlaCOBaHHOe PeIIIeHEIe.  CKnaAbIBaeTCÇI BneYaTJìeHHe I  peHHOCTPí MeXny aBTOpaMEI 6yny~eü pe3OJiiOIlUU C npyrHMH ,QeJleraqURMU, 6ynTO Mbl CTpe-  MUMCR OTnenHTb 3TOT BOnpOC H nOCJlaTb er0 B am. 2 He BHXY HEIRaKAX - HU MOpaJlbHblX,  HA npaB0BblX - OCHOBaHUfi nJiR TaKOrO peüieHUR. Mbl eQe pa3 nOJiXHb1 B3BeCHTb BCH) Mepy  HaIIIefi OTBeTCTBeHHOCTH H He JlOMaTb ROHCeHCYCI R KOTOPOMY Mbl BCe npH3blBaSlU U ROTO-  HanpaBneHHbIX Ha JlOCTUXeHUe KOHCeHCyCOB?
6yn~0 Mbl C03HaTeJlbHO XOTHM nOMeIIIaTb ZtOCTHXeHHH) LlOrOBO-  pbifi ~ b l  Bce nonnepxasans. kiaase Rarcofi cMb1cn B Hamnx ~acena~rmx U npennoxeawnx,
78.4 IiOHWMaKJI YTO pa6OTa MeXnyHapOAHOfi OpI'aHW3aUXW HeMblCJiUMa 6e3 ROMnpOMHC-  COB II B3aWMHblX Y CTY~ORI HO1 ZI iiOnYepRWBai0, WMBHHO B3aWMHblX; rAe Xe 3Ta B3aWM-  HOCTb? MbI CJiblüianW MHOFO BblCTynJIeHHRl rne l?OBOPHJIOCbl CROJïbRO yCTynOK 6blJIO CAeJlaHO  B lTpOUeCCe Bblpa60TRA 3TOr0 ROMlïpOMHCCa, 3TOr0 KOHCeHCYCal a PAC? yCTynKW aROHeHTOB?  MbI HEI 06 OnHofi U3 HWX He CJibl~aJiW. TaR COTpYnHWYaTb, CTpeMFICb IC ROHCeHCYCY, W Yepes  YaC OT Her0 OTRa3biBaTbCRI nO-MOeMY, Henb3R. 3T0 He COJlWnHO. nO3TOMy II: n0JiHOCTbIO  nonnepxuaam npennoxeese, B ~ I C R ~ ~ ~ H H O ~  r- oM PaxaneM. Bnaronapm Bac.
(78.1) Mr KHILTCHEVSKI (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the  Russian) :  Thank you, Comrade President. I have been taking part in the work of organiz-  ations of the United Nations system for many years and must admit that this is the  first time I have encountered such a paradoxical situation, in which after lengthy  debates in the plenary meeting of the Administrative Commission, after a two-day dis-  cussion here, and after a consensus has been reached involving all States, the propo-  sal is suddenly once again made that we should refer the text of this consensus, which  has been approved by the plenary meeting of the Administrative Commission, for some  kind of review, by the Drafting and Negotiation Group. And they refer to the gao-  graphical representation of that. group. What wider geographical representation can  there be than the plenary meeting of the Administrative Commission, or any other com-  mission? This is nonsense, gentlemen.
(78.2) It seems to me that we must give serious thought to whether we respect our  own decisions and whether we respect the authority of our Organization. Or is a lack  of respect for our own decisions becoming apparent here, and an attempt by means of a  procedural tangle to drag out and wreck a decision on this important question of  principle? I fully support the view expressed by the distinguished representatives of  Algeria, Guyana and Kuwait, and I think we must assume the full measure of responsi-  bility for what we are doing today.
(78.3) As far as questions connected with the activity and report of the Legal Com-  mittee are concerned, I remember that right at the beginning of our discussion the  proposal of Mr Wynter was put forward. It was immediately supported by Mr Rahal and a  number of other delegations. We should use the opportunity that has emerged to work  out an agreed decision. The impression has been formed that we consciously want to  prevent an understanding being reached between the authors of a future resolution and  other delegations, that we are striving to detach this question and send it to the  Drafting and Negotiation Group. I see no basis, either moral or legal, for such a  decision. ûnce again we must weigh up the full measure of our responsibility and not  break the consensus which we have all called for and which we have all supported.  Otherwise what sense is there in working out consensuses in our meetings and  proposals?
(78.4) I realize that the work of an international organization is unthinkable with-  out compromises and concessions, but I stress they must be mutual. Where is that  mutuality? We have heard many statements saying how many concessions have heen made in  reaching a particular compromise or consensus, but where are the concessions of our  opponents? We have heard of not a single one. You cannot, in my view, co-operate in  striving for consensus and then an hour later repudiate that consensus. That is not a  proper way to proceed. I therefore fully support the proposal of Mr Rahal. Thank you.
79. Le PRESIDENT :  tiques et je donne la parole au délégué de la République démocratique allemande.
(80) Mr THUN (German Democratic Republic) (Translation from the Russian) :  Thank you, Comrade President. I shall try to be very brief. I think that par-  ticipants in the General Conference should give much thought to the statement of the  distinguished representative of Algeria, Mr Rahal. How will the work of the General  Conference take shape and develop, if we refer all resolutions drafted in commission  on the basis of consensus to other organs so that they can work over yet again what
1044    has been achieved in the plenary meetings of the various commissions? I therefore  think that there are good grounds for taking the text as it was submitted by the  Administrative Commission and approving it in the plenary meeting, thereby concluding  our discussion of the administrative problems to do with this agenda item. As for  questions concerning the report of the Legal Committee, Mr Rahal has again indicated  the path we must take. We must not create new difficulties along the way to settling  the matter. I therefore fully support the proposal of Mr Rahal. Thank you, Comrade  President.
81. Le PRESIDENT :  délégué du Royaume-Uni a demandé la parole. Je vous en prie.
82. Mr PETTITT (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland):  Thank you, Mr President. As should be apparent from the report of the  Administrative Commission and from the remarks made by my delegation, there is no  consensus here on the draft resolution in the report of the Commission. To pro-  ceed further towards consensus it is necessary in our view to remit the resol-  ution to the Drafting and Negotiation Group or to resolve the matter in some  other way. As regards the report of the Legal Committee, we agree with the  suggestions first made by the distinguished delegate of Canada. Thank you,  Mr President.  Je remercie le délégué de la République démocratique allemande. Le
83. Le PRESIDENT :  Je donne la parole au délégué de la République centrafr,icaine.
84. M. BLAGUE (République centrafricaine) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais simplement faire  deux remarques. Tout d'abord il m'apparaît judicieux de laisser au Bureau de la  Conférence générale le soin de réfléchir au meilleur moyen de traiter ces deux  problèmes que vous avez évoqués. Je crains que nous n'en venions, à travers cette  question de procédure, à de nouveaux échanges d'arguments. Deuxièmement, cette  proposition que je vous fais nous ouvre également une autre porte, et cela  m'amène à ma deuxième remarque. J'aimerais que ceux qui ont formulé des propo-  sitions quant aux questions examinées par la Commission administrative, prennent  contact avec les coauteurs afin de voir si ceux qui se sont employés 3 la réa-  lisation de ce consensus sont prêts à accepter certains des amendements qui ont  été formulés et qui, Monsieur le Président, comme vous l'avez dit tout à l'heure,  ne sont pas nombreux. Je ne crois pas qu'il faille prendre une décision préci-  pitée qui risque de nous faire choisir une voie pas très indiquée pour résoudre  les questions à l'examen. Le Bureau est à mon avis le mieux à même de réfléchir à  ce problème et de faire une proposition à la plénière un peu plus tard. Je vous  remercie, Monsieur le Président.
85. Le PRESIDENT :
1'Ethiopie.  Est-ce qu'il y a d'autres orateurs ? Je donne la parole au délégué de
86. Mr KEBRETH (Ethiopia) :  Mr President, I suppose we should exercise caution before we decide to  refer matters to the Drafting and Negotiation Group; and we should eschew refer-  ral to the Drafting and Negotiation Group with the easy feeling of automaticity.  The terms of reference to the Drafting and Negotiation Group itself do not seem  to permit such a course of action. If you permit me, I will just refer to them.  They provide that the purpose of the Drafting and Negotiation Group will be to  assist the General Conference in the consideration of matters that after debate  require negotiation or broad consultation. I think, Mr President, we have long  ago exhausted this broad consultation and negotiation. The draft we have now is  the result of a long and arduous negotiation and broad consultation. I think we  would be engaging in a kind of Sisyphian toil if we referred it to the Drafting  and Negotiation Group at this moment. And, having said this, I would like to say  that I would agree strongly with the proposal of Mr Rahal. Thank you.
87. Le PRESIDENT :  Je donne la parole au délégué de la France.
88. M. ZAVRIEW (France) :  Je vous remercie Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, je prends  la parole avec votre autorisation pour appuyer la proposition qui vient d'être  faite par le représentant de la République centrafricaine. En effet, Monsieur le  Président, je pense que, au point où nous en sommes, au moment où le débat a  l'ah de recommencer, il serait peut-être en effet préférable de laisser au  Bureau le soin de décider s'il faut créer un petit groupe de travail, ou au  contraire saisir le DNG. Le Bureau doit, je crois, se réunir dès demain matin, et  pourra éventuellement, en effet, faire des propositions à la plénière. I1 me
1045    parait, Monsieur le Président, qu'autrement, notre débat risque non seulement  d'être stérile, mais peut-être comme l'a dit M. Blagué tout à l'heure, de nous  engager dans une voie qui est exactement celle que nous ne voulions pas prendre,  celle qui, pour cette Conférence générale, serait, non pas celle de l'échec, mais  celle de l'affrontement. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
89. Le PRESIDENT :  Je donne la parole au délégué de l'Irak.
(90) Mr AL-BASSAM (Iraq) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. The recommendation of the Executive Board requires  that all matters which are under discussion for the first time and over which there  appears to be some disagreement should be referred to the Drafting and Negotiation  Group. The matter before us has been thoroughly discussed both in the Administrative  Commission and by the General Conference. Accordingly, the recommendation of the  Executive Board does not apply to it. It may be advisable, therefore, to refer this  matter to a smaller group to resolve the conflict over it. Thank you, Mr President.
91.1 Le PRESIDENT :  Merci. Je ne vois pas d'autres orateurs, je ne voudrais pas, maintenant,  rouvrir moi-même un débat, mais je dois dire que selon moi, la question du  rapport du Comité juridique devrait être réglée plus ou moins sur la base des  propositions formelles qui ont été faites. I1 est trop tard maintenant pour  prendre ce soir même une décision dans la précipitation.
91.2 Je vais vous faire une proposition. En ce qui concerne la question du  rapport de la Commission administrative, personne n'a formulé, à l'exception du  délégué du Royaume-Uni, .une demande formelle de l'envoyer au DNG. C'est pourquoi  je souscris à la proposition qui a été faite et qui est de charger le Bureau de  rechercher une solution. Demain, durant la journée après avoir entendu le rapport  du Directeur général, en plénière, dans l'après-midi, nous trouverons, j'en suis  sûr, un moment pour nous pencher sur cette question et prendre la décision. S'il  n'y a pas d'objection à ma suggestion, je vous propose de lever cette longue  séance.
91.3 La séance est levée.  - The meetinc rose at 8.35 p.m.  La séance est levée à 20 h.35  Se levanta ia sesión a las 20.35  Sacena~ue saRpbIsaeTca B 20.35  Adyo '&-i 4 '-1 "bL9_,