Twenty-second plenary meeting
21 October 1985 at 3.05 p.m.  President: Mr TODOROV (Bulgaria)  later: Mr PUTZEYS ALVAREZ (Guatemala)  and: Mr INDELICATO (Italy)  Vingt-deuxième séance plénière
1. Le PRESIDENT :  Mesdames, Messieurs, je déclare ouverte la vingt-deuxième séance plé-  nière. Je donne la parole à S. Exc. M. Sangye Penjor, ministre des services  sociaux et chef de la délégation du Bhoutan.
2.1 Mr PENJOR (Bhutan):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure to be here today and to associate myself  with the deliberations of the twenty-third session of the General Conference of  Unesco. I have the honour of conveying to you the warm greetings and best wishes  of His Majesty King Jigme Singye Wangchuk and the .people of Bhutan for a most  fruitful outcome of this Conference.
2.2 Mr President, my delegation would like to join the previous speakers in  congratulating you on your election. The task before you is not an easy one.  Nevertheless, we have every confidence that, under your able leadership and wise  guidance, we shall be able to complete the challenging task of this Conference  most satisfactorily. On behalf of my delegation and on my own behalf, let me  assure you, Mr President, of the sincere co-operation of my delegation in the  deliberations.
2.3 My delegation would also like to convey our sincere thanks to the  Government and people of Bulgaria for the warm hospitality extended to us, and  for the excellent arrangements made for the Conference in this beautiful city of  Sofia.
2.4 Mr President, although my country, the Kingdom of Bhutan, is a  relatively new member of the Unesco family, we are fully convinced that this  great Organization's objectives and endeavours are more relevant and useful now  than at any other moment in the past. We have assembled here at a time when the  whole world is genuinely concerned about rising international tension and the  beginning of a new arms race, further endangering the very survival of humanity.  In a world which is increasingly becoming interdependent and where the peace and  happiness of every nation, big or small, depend on developments far beyond its  territorial limits, a feeling of imminent disaster is now universal. Even though  we in Bhutan are womewhat remote in the serenity of our Himalayan homeland, we do  share the anguish and insecurity of all peace-loving people at the lengthening  shadows cast by war and warlike activities. At this critical juncture, my country  joins every Member State in this great Organization in striving with even greater  vigour and intensity to remove the seeds of distrust and violence from the minds  of .every man and woman.
2.5 Mr President, my country is still in the early stage of its socio-  economic transformation, and we have a long way to go to provide our people with  a satisfactory standard of living and to ensure the fulfilment of their basic  needs. In a period of over two decades, Bhutan has made commendable strides in  many different directions. Despite the constraints imposed by a difficult geo-  qraphical terrain and the scarcity of resources, including human resources, we  have been able to build an extensive road network connecting different parts of  the Kingdom. With regard to primary health care, we are working hard to achieve  the goal of 'Health for all by the year 2000'. Education continues to receive  very high priority in all our Five-Year Development Plans. In the words of  H.M. Xing Jigme Singye Wangchuk, 'Bhutan is endowed with rich natural resources,  but our greatest resource continues to be our people - we consider education an  investment'. As a result, in a relatively short period, starting from scratch, we  have been able to create, within the country, facilities from primary education  up to degree level studies. Technical and vocational institutions and teacher  training institutions have been established.
2.6 In the fields of communication and information, a radio broadcasting  station is being built in the capital. Recognizing the importance of science and  technology for social transformation and economic growth, we have set up a  Science and Technology Division under the Planning Commission. In this connec-  tion, with Unesco's sponsorship, we are preparing to hold a national seminar on  science, technology and society during December this year. Efforts are being made  to bring primary education within the reach of every child in the years to come  so that the goal of universalization may be attained in the near future.  I
2.7 Having created the basic infrastructure for socio-economic development,  Bhutan now looks forward to an increased tempo of investment in directly produc-  tive activities in a number of sectors. However, one of the major impediments in  stepping up investments for the optimum utilization of our abundant minerals and  other natural resources is the acute shortage of qualified and skilled manpower.  In fact, human resources development through substantial investment is the most  important task my country faces. Although we now have some technical personnel in  every major discipline, their numbers are far below our requirements. We are now  in the terminal year of our Fifth Five-Year Plan, and at the moment we are  engaged in the formulation of a framework for investment in the Sixth Five Year-  Plan beginning in 1987. We look forward to Unesco for assistance, both financial  and in the form of expertise, to supplement and complement our national efforts  during Sixth Five-Year Plan.
2.8 Mr President, Bhutan's association with Unesco is older than our member-  ship. It was through the UNDP-Unesco assisted teacher training college project  that Bhutan was introduced to Unesco about nine years ago. I am happy to state  that with the successful implementation of this project, one of our serious prob-  lems - a shortage of national teachers for primary schools, particularly in the  difficult rural areas - has been minimized to a great extent. At the moment, a  second project for the training of secondary schoolteachers assisted by UNDP-  Unesco is being implemented. A sizeable portion of the project has been funded by  Unesco through funds-in-trust programmes contributed by AGFUND and Government of  Norway. The project is going well, and the first batch of secondary-school  teachers trained within the country will graduate in 1986. We highly appreciate  Unesco's co-operation and contribution in this project entitled, 'National Insti-  tute of Education'. My delegation also wishes to express sincere thanks to  AGFUND and the Government of Norway for their generous assistance in this  project.
2.9 Another Unesco-UNDP assisted project has been taken up recently to  expand and improve the only Degree College in the country. During the period
1984-1985, Unesco has extended technical support to the Department of Education  by providing short-term consultancies in the field of education policy and plan-  ning, assistance in the management of examinations and the training of three  district education officers under the participation programme. A consultant in  architecture for the development of designs. of rural primary schools, a consul-  tant in Dzongkha language development and a national study group on education for  better co-ordination of different types and levels of education, have also been  approved recently by Unesco under the participation programme. Though these are  small programmes, they are nevertheless considered very useful in supplementing  our national efforts. We look forward to Unesco for co-operation and collabor-  ation in many more projects in the years to come.
2.10 Mr President, we are pleased to note from the agenda of the General Con-  ference, that the Director-General and his colleagues have taken great pains to  address a large number of vitai issues and to act in a most constructive way to  further the goals of Unesco. We once again wish to affirm our complete support  for the Organization and its endeavours.
2.11 Mr President, Bhutan belongs to the group of LDCs with a low rate of  literacy. As such, it is in need of greater international assistance both  financial and in the form of expertise and fellowships. Financial assistance is  required to build many new primary schools, particularly in rural areas, to  increase the coverage of primary education. Technical assistance is required to  improve the standard and quality of education. More secondary schools need to be  built and facilities for higher education have to be expanded and improved. The  planning and managerial capability of the Department of Education has to be  strengthened by training an adequate number of nationals under fellowship pro-  grammes. Without substantial support from international agencies such as Unesco  and from bilateral sources, our national efforts alone cannot meet all these  challenges. Judging from the fact that in the past Unesco has made every effort  to assign high priority to requests for co-operation from LDCs in the execution  of major programmes in education, my delegation has full confidence that Unesco  will continue to give maximum support to LDCs like Bhutan. We wish to express our  highest appreciation of the pioneering initiatives taken by the Organization, and  in particular the personal endeavours of the Director-General, in recognizing the  urgent needs of LDCs and the concern to help them. Needless to say, if the ever-  widening gap between the rich and the poor, the developed and the developing  countries is to be bridged one day, then the LDCs should receive the full sym-  pathy and generous assistance of international organizations like Unesco.
2.12 Mr President, my country is endowed with a rich and unique cultural and  spiritual heritage. We have numerous Dzongs (forts), monasteries, temples and  stupas, with a vast treasure of ancient architecture, priceless images, paint-  ings, manuscripts and xylographs, whose history goes as far back as the seventh
777    century A.D. Having recognized the spiritual and traditional values of these  treasures, the Royal Government has taken the necessary steps to preserve them  through the establishment of appropriate institutions such as the National  Library-cum-Archive, the National Museum and Antique Preservation Department, and  others. We believe that such values, which are of the greatest significance for  the cultural identity of our people, must be preserved and strengthened if they  are not to be eroded during the process of rapid modernization. However, in our  efforts to carry out this task, we are faced with a lack both of financial  resources and of technical know-how. Unesco with its wide-ranging experience in  assisting Member States in the restoration and preservation of historic monuments  in different parts of the world could also extend its expertise and financial  assistance to Bhutan under the programme for the protection of the cultural heri-  tage. My government also wishes to urge Unesco to include some of our ancient  historical monuments and sites in the programme for the preservation of the  world's major monuments. In this connection, the Royal Government would appreci-  ate it if Unesco, to begin with, could send a team of experts to visit Bhutan to  look at our historical monuments with a view to the inclusion of some of them in  the World Heritage List.
2.13 Mr President, let me conclude my statement by joining some of the pre-  vious speakers in requesting the Government of the United States of America, one  of the founding members of this great Organization, and formerly one of the major  donors, to reconsider its withdrawal from the Unesco family. The continuation of  United States of America in the Unesco family will go a long way in our efforts  to achieve the cherished goal of universality of Unesco. It is the considered  view of my delegation that all the Member States assembled here, whether big or  small, rich or poor, should work hand in hand in strengthening Unesco, a great  Organization, of which we are all proud to be members. Thank you, Mr President.
3. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Bhoutan et je donne la parole à  S. Exc. M. Ebenezer Meli Malie, ministre de l'éducation, des sports et de la  culture et chef de la délégation du Lesotho.
4.1 Mr MALIE (Lesotho):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is my special privilege and  honour, on behalf of the delegation of Lesotho, and on my own behalf, to con-  gratulate you heartily on your unanimous election to the presidency of this Con-  ference. At the same time, allow me to assure you of my delegation's support in  your onerous task of piloting the ship through the turbulent seas.
4.2 Allow me, Mr President, through you, to express my delegation's, and my  own, appreciation and thanks to the Government, President and hospitable people  of your great country Bulgaria for having offered to host the present session of  the General Conference of Unesco. We wish to commend you for the elaborate and  excellent arrangements made to facilitate the business of the Conference and to  enhance the quality of its work. The congenial surroundings and facilities pro-  vided to us form an excellent basis for the exchange of views which is a pre-  requisite for building a climate of understanding and compromise. There is no  doubt, Mr President, that history will record this Conference as one of the most  outstanding of Unesco's Conferences by virtue of its universality and the dynamic  challenges which it places upon Member States both individuallly and collec-  tively. I therefore wish to implore the distinguished delegates to discuss and  examine the issues presented to them in a spirit of give and take and mutual  respect for each other's views.
4.3. Mr President, please allow me to express my delegation's hearty con-  gratulations and unshakeable support to the Director-General for the devoted  manner in which he and the Executive Board have carried out qualitative improve-  ments in the work of Unesco.
4.4 Mr President, the Draft Programme and Budget for 1986-1987 bears testi-  mony to the completion of a long and arduous task. Consequently the Secretariat  needs to be congratulated for this excellent performance.
4.5 Let me also address the situation or position of the withdrawal or con-  templated withdrawal of some Member States from membership of Unesco. My  delegation is sad to know that one founder member of Unesco has already left the  Organization while at the same time two other members are threatening to leave  the Organization unless - and I quote 'there are urgent and meaningful reforms'.  My delegation is fully aware of the sovereign right of each Member State to  decide freely whether it wants to stay or leave Unesco. It is, however, imper-  ative that we address ourselves to the repercussions which such withdrawals have  on the Organization's administrative structures and long-term plans. Their  decisions are not only aimed at Unesco but the entire United Nations system.
778    Their withdrawals affect all of us. The participation of their nationals in  Unesco's activities may be adversely affected.
4.6 Mr President, what we need now are contingency plans so that, if these  threats of withdrawals become real, the Director-General and the Executive Board  should know what relevant action the General Conference expects them to take. I  pray, however, Mr President, that the members who are contemplating leaving the  Organization will change their stand after consistent advice from distinguished  delegates who have spoken before me in this forum.
4.7 In these circumstances, it would be easy for all of us to lose heart.  The threat of storms still to come are present with us. The clouds which may  obscure the good intentions of those who set this Organization under way, 40  years ago, have not yet lifted. We appeal to all to give their wholehearted  support to Unesco so that it may continue effectively to pursue its objectives.  If we lose heart and drift away, we shall fail. The punishment for failure all of  us cannot escape. We recognize that all Member States of Unesco share a collec-  tive responsibility to pursue the objectives of this Organization. If Unesco was  essential for the survival of mankind 40 years ago, today its existence is  imperative. The danger of man's total annihilation by weapons far more powerful  than the atom bomb dropped on Hiroshima 40 years ago looms on the horizon. It was  on the ashes and ruins of the war which came to its end 40 years ago that the  United Nations system was founded, including Unesco.
4.8 Mr President, as this danger hovers in the sky, the gap between those of  us who have and those who have not continues to grow. It is with dismay that we  observe the desperate struggle of all the superpowers for self-aggrandisement.  The powerful take a disproportionate share of the world's resources for military  purposes. The weak see the quality of their daily lives threatened. They can only  hope that the lack of trust which fuels the greedy, frantic stripping of our  planet's resources is not the inevitable outcome of power.
4.9 Mr president, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, my  delegation wishes to address itself to the preparation and method of presentation  of document 23 C/5, Volumes I and II. My delegation notes with appreciation the  manner in which the Draft Programme and Budget for 1986-1987 has been prepared in  two volumes for submission to this twenty-third session of the General Conference  of Unesco meeting here in Sofia. This arrangement is an improvement over the  arrangement of previous C/5 documents and has taken into account the principles  set forth in resolution 5.01 adopted by the General Conference at its fourth  extraordinary session, particularly in paragraph 3(b). This arrangement has  facilitated understanding and made for greater clarity of presentation to the  General Conference; and the Director-General and all his relevant committees must  be congratulated for this improvement and all other improvements designed to  facilitate the work of this General Conference.
4.10 Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, my  delegation now wishes to focus its attention on the major programmes reflected in  document 23 C/5 and indicate our full support for these major programmes as sub-  mitted to us for consideration by the Executive Board. We also wish to take note  of their prioritization and classification.
4.11 In this connection Major Programme I, 'Reflection on world problems and  future-oriented studies', is of interest to us, and Lesotho supports Option 2 as  it is succinctly put in paragraphs 01301 to 01312. There is a constant need to  examine world problems and to prioritize their significance for national and  international co-operation and peaceful Co-existence. It is, however, of para-  mount importance in the identification of such problems to have a consensus with  regard to our strategies for action and the criteria to be used in identifying  people who will be considered for appointment to the co-ordinating committee.  This is necessary because the calibre of such people will affect the attainment  of the goals of this programme as set out in Option 2, paragraph 01305 under  'expected results'.
4.12 In dealing with world problems, the Lesotho delegation notes with satis-  faction that paragraph 5(b) of the proposed resolution under Option 2 of Major  Programme I requests the Director-General, in the implementation of the activi-  ties concerned, 'to see that the help which is sought will permit the expression  of the various cultures, sensitivities and schools of thought, and to ensure that  the views of women are given suitable prominence in this work'. I am happy to  say, Mr President, that my government's sensitivity to the welfare of women is  reflected in the establishment of a department in the Prime Minister's office,  designed to deal more effectively with the welfare of women and to ensure that  they are not discriminated against in all.matters of national significance. The  Government of Lesotho has passed legislation removing all discrimination against  women and thereby giving women equal pay, equal opportunities and pension at the  I79    end of their service period. My delegation at this Conference bears testimony to  this fact. Lesotho's representation is equitably distributed between men and  women - a step in the right direction.
4.13 Mr President, Major Programme II, 'Education for all', has significance  for US and we strongly support it. This programme deals with the promotion of  general access to education, the democratization of education, adult education,  equality of educational opportunities for girls and women, education in rural  areas and the education of particular groups. All these sectors of education  require our attention. We strongly support the dissemination and exchange of  information on literacy training for adults and primary education.
4.14 In this regard, we maintain that our education must be oriented towards  development, and development must be understood in the context of rural develop-  ment. Mr President, we take cognizance of the fact that development denotes an  improvement in general living conditions. For poorer groups this means an  improvement in the supply of food and housing, higher productivity, less disease,  an improvement in the general level of knowledge, reduction in exploitation and  increased participation in the political decision-making process. Indeed it means  the reaching of maturity which is synonymous with the attainment of inner  stability and constancy.
4.15 Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, Lesotho is  at an exciting stage in the development of its educational system. And to this  end we shall continue to look to Unesco and other agencies for support in various  fields. We are making a deliberate effort to diversify our programmes and to make  them relevant to the present needs of the country. The Prime Minister has  expressed the need to see education as an integral part of life of the nation.  The Lesotho Government, he said, 'believes that true education is not only about  life, but is life itself'. Government commitment to this is confirmed by the fact  that 25 per cent of the national budget is allocated to education. Lesotho has  held several conferences designed to bring relevance into all levels of our edu-  cational system. Thanks to Unesco's consultants, the national dialogue of 1978  culminated in the establishment of the sector survey task force which produced a  report in 1982 which became the government's blueprint on education policy.
4.16 It recommended that, to meet the aspirations of the people, primary edu-  cation should be democratized and made relevant to local conditions. In the area  of secondary education, the Education Manifesto was published in November 1984.  This document translated into a programme of action the decisions and recommen-  dations of a major conference of secondary and high-school head teachers together  with the Inspectorate, which the National Curriculum Development Centre held in  March 1984. This was followed by a second document, The Way Ahead, published in  July 1985. This complemented the manifesto. The former showed what was to be  done, the latter showed who should do it.
4.17 In line with the policy of diversification and training in self-  reliance, each school has to offer a practical subject. As a result, the  National Teacher Training College is also training teachers in basic crafts,  agriculture and commercial studies. As would be expected at this early stage,  the recruitment of teachers of the right calibre continues to be a problem. We  believe that a practical orientation makes education more realistic with respect  to the relationship between school and the world of work. We believe that it  prepares students for the opportunity to accept employment and enables business  and industry to have more practically trained people to call upon. It is diffi-  cult to expand an economy without these people. In this respect, Lesotho  believes that economic expansion and technical education are partners.
4.18 We must hasten to point out that we do not seek to make an artificial  division between so-called technical and academic education. Our secondary  schools will educate all our people, regardless of ultimate destination, in the  same building with common core programmes. One type of education is not separated  and assigned second class-status. If potential doctors and mechanics receive  their basic cycle of education together, they may come to know and respect one  another's talents. Our schools are not meant to provide class-distinction struc-  tures in the society.
4.19 Mr President, we are therefore impressed by Subprogramme 11.1.2,  'Assistance for framing and implementation of national, regional and inter-  national strategies for the promotion of general access to primary education and  its renewal and for the eradication of illiteracy'. Paragraph 02110, relating to  the targets, stands out as significant to us in Lesotho, and we want to read it  together with the proposed actions in paragraph 02112, namely 'Framing of  national, regional and international strategies for the development of education  which link the general provision and renewal of primary education to literacy
22  work with adults'. My government hopes that technical support will be aiade avail-  able to tackle the problem at various levels and to promote valuable cross-  pollenation of expertise at all levels among the developing countries of the  world, particularly in Africa. At the same time, Mr President, we are looking  forward to training of personnel in all areas and at all levels of education  because this is where Lesotho, like most developing countries, is sadly lagging  behind.
4.20 Mr President, we support Major Programme IV, 'The formulation and appli-  cation of education policies', because it is fundamental in the success of our  educational systems. My delegation regards paragraph 04423(a) as of great sig-  nificance because of its emphasis on co-operation in the form of feasibility  studies and mutual consultation with subregional and regional organizations so as  to make possible the large-scale production of educational components. This will  facilitate the interchange and exchange of information on educational materials;  and Lesotho and Malawi are already exchanging notes on the production of teaching  materials from our instructional materials centres.
4.21 Mr President, because of our geographical position and our historical  circumstances, I cannot conclude this presentation without referring to Major  Programme IX, 'Science, technology and society', since this is the lifeblood of  our survival; to Major Programme XI, 'Culture and the future', since - to quote a  saying of ours - 'a nation without culture is like a rootless plant'; and to  Major Programme XII, 'The, elimination of prejudice, intolerance, racism and  apartheid', since these are issues which have been responsible for human suffer-  ing and continue to be so even today.
4.22 Mr President, in conclusion some concern has been expressed in certain  quarters about the lack of priorities set by Unesco and the over-emphasis on  study and research, much of which has not been directly related to subsequent  action. We wish again to stress here the need to connect the universal nature of  the progress of knowledge with an understanding of the diversity of physical and  cultural conditions. The need for this connection, perhaps a driving force  behind many of Unesco's research projects, cannot be underestimated. Through it  we may discover the key to implementation. The balance between research and  implementation is, of course, important; and there has been now an increased  emphasis in a number of areas of practical activity. This reflects an awareness  on the part of this Organization of the complexity of effective execution. It  also reflects its continuing determination to fulfil its original terms of  reference. Thus the studies which attempted to provide a better understanding of  the problems of illiteracy have been replaced by the training of personnel who  will carry out the attack on illiteracy.
4.23 My government and the people of Lesotho hope to persuade those who were  threatening to leave the Organization to remain within this house and to continue  to build from within.
4.24 May Unesco continue to fight the repugnant policies which undermine  peace and threaten the very survival of man by not only building the defences of  peace in the minds of men but by ensuring the impregnability of such defences.  Long live Unesco and the whole of the United Nations system. Thank you.
5. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Lesotho et je donne la parole à  S. Exc. M. Hector Wynter, délégué permanent auprès de l'Unesco et chef de la  délégation de la Jamaïque.
6.1 Mr WYNTER (Jamaica) :  Mr President, when this Conference accepted the Executive Board's pro-  posal to limit speeches to an average of 20 minutes, it inspired the men among us  to say what the famous and much-married English monarch, Henry VIII, said to each  of his wives: 'I shall not keep you very long'. But, Mr President, as my  colleague from the Caribbean Island of Saint Lucia took only 10 minutes, he  kindly left me his remaining 10 minutes. I hope, however, not to use all of them.
6.2 Mr President, 11 years ago, your country hosted a part of a session of  the Executive Board in Varna, the delightful and famous Black Sea resort, and  members were also feted in Sofia. .The hospitality and the quality of the organ-  izational skills of your colleagues and yourself were of such a high standard  that I welcomed your government's initiative in offering to host this twenty-  third session of the General Conference. For I was convinced that your government  and people would make every effort to ensure the success of the Conference. And  how well you have succeeded! My congratulations; I thank you, Sir, and your  countrymen and women for making us all comfortable and facilitating the work of  our sovereign authority - the General Conference.
6.3 Now, Mr President, this session has been regarded as crucial to the  future of our Organization. But isn't every Conference of the full membership  crucial to the Organization's future? What therefore makes it so critical?
6.4 As some other members have pointed out, when a founding Member State  which contributes 25 per cent of Unesco's resources withdraws during a biennium,  and in doing so lays down a recipe of demands for its return, then there is no  doubt that the Organization is in a crisis. And when one adds the fact that two  other Member States, the United Kingdom and Singapore, have given notice of with-  drawal, then the crisis assumes even more dangerous proportions. Yet the Organiz-  ation has not panicked. The Executive Board, acting for the General Conference,  has faced the crisis calmly and resolutely, and has not adopted any measures of  desperation. The Director-General has responded with his customary dedication to  the principles of the Constitution, and with his great faith in the paramountcy  of international collaboration.
6.5 Mr President, to speak now, at the very last of the meetings devoted to  the general policy debate, is to avoid too many references to the Draft Programme  and Budget. For we have already had ample opportunity in three of the Commissions  to air our views. And, in any event, we were thoroughly consulted, and ha,d the  pleasure of seeing many of the views of the Jamaican and Caribbean National Com-  missions for Unesco concerning priorities in the programmes adopted. So I will  content myself by saying that we accept the views of the Executive Board on  priorities, but hope also that it will be possible for this Conference to  strengthen further the decision on priorities by adopting our own criterion,  declared repeatedly by the Jamaican representative on the Executive Board, that  programmes for the developing countries in education, science and culture should  take precedence as a matter of urgent necessity.
6.6 Let us not take seriously, Mr President, those who would dismiss the  very important aspect of technical assistance of Unesco to developed and develop-  ing States by saying that Unesco is not an aid agency. It is in my view the most  important aid agency in the fields of education, science, culture and communi-  cation. Its magnificent aid to and leadership of the movement to restore the  cultural heritage of mankind - and Abu Simbel comes to mind immediately - con-  tinues with even greater pace despite the harsh economic climate in the whole  world.
6.7 We in Jamaica are now in discussion with Unesco and other agencies to  bring to the consciousness of mankind the importance of New Seville, the Nueva  Sevilla which Christopher Columbus founded on the coast of Jamaica at the begin-  ning of the sixteenth century, and which played such a pivotal role in the devel-  opment of Latin America, the Caribbean, and North America. Only two months ago,  Spanish archeologists working in co-operation with our National Heritage Trust  discovered the foundations of one of the first abbeys built in the New World - in
1524 - and, Mr President, it is an extraordinary find of historical importance.  We have already discovered significant pointers to our Arawak, European and  African heritage as we continue to explore the New Seville area on land with the  invaluable assistance of Spanish archaeologists under an agreement with the  Spanish Government.
6.8 At the same time, we are continuing to search for what we believe to be  the lost caravels of Columbus in the waters outside the town called by Columbus  Santa Gloria, and which we in Jamaica now call Saint Ann's Bay. Explorations over  the past five years with the assistance of Texas A&M University of the United  States of America have shown us where they are e, but we have uncovered so many  artifacts from shipwrecks that man's knowledge of maritime history will be en-  hanced. Indeed, we hope within another five years to find at least one of the  caravels, which would be man's only example of what those vessels looked like.
6.9 Unesco's cultural advisers have been engaged with us in plotting the  strategy for a massive development which will be Jamaica's contribution to the  celebration of the 500th anniversary of the arrival of Columbus in the New World  in 1492. We propose development of a Seville Historical and Archaeological Park  which will energize our own people with a knowledgeable awareness of our dignity  as a nation, and excite the imagination of the rest of the world with the import-  ance of Nueva Sevilla as a crossroads of Amerindian, Spanish, African and British  cultural assets now fused with Asian and Middle-Eastern cultural strains to form  what we now call the Jamaican culture.
6.10 The historic beach is still preserved where Columbus first dropped  anchor in 1494, and where in 1503 he abandoned and beached his two caravels, &  Capitana and La Santiago de Palos. He was marooned in that part of Jamaica for  one year and five days - his longest stay anywhere in the New World. We plan with  Unesco's technical assistance to develop an Institute of New World Studies at New
22  Seville which will be dedicated to the study of the arrival and impact and mix-  tures of diverse cultures, civilizations and races - European, Caribbean and  African.
6.11 So, Mr President, let us admit the importance of the technical assist-  ance aspect of Unesco, which has done so much for the world's cultural heritage  and has been magnificently successful in education and science, though so very  much remains to be done: Unesco gives its intellectual and technical assistance  to enable UNDP and the World Bank to make significant loans to Member States.
6.12 Mr President, on Thursday last we listened to a most endearing and  appealing speech from the Head of the AGFUND - Prince Tala1 Bin Abdulazis Alsaud.  I was most impressed by the urgings of that most sensitive man for us to begin to  redress the balance between economic agencies and what I call for caring  agencies, particularly the need to assist the mothers and children and to re-  inforce the role of the basic family unit. His message should not be lost on us,  for the enrichment of the basic family unit is a major objective of our work in  education. In Jamaica, we are already indebted to Unesco and the AGFUND as well  as to bilateral agencies in Canada, the United States of America and to private  and public sectors in Jamiaca for a revolutionary primary textbook scheme under  which so far some five million textbooks have been printed on heavy newsprint by  my newspaper company - the Gleaner - and which has enabled every child in over
800 primary schools to have their own individual textbooks in reading, English,  mathematics and basic science. Before this , ten children in our primary schools  had to share one textbook. It has been a heartwarming experience of how multi-  lateral agencies, bilateral agencies and the national private and public sectors  can come together in a common cause. The existence and purpose of Unesco in this  mobilization is most instructive.
6.13 I return now, Mr President, to the question of our future. In December
1984, the United States of America, a founding member, withdrew after having  given notice. The impact of the withdrawal of one of the two superpowers in the  world has not yet been fully felt. Our financial resources have been greatly  affected, but even more will be the participation of the brilliant scholars,  scientists, poets, painters of that land of plenty and cultural vitality. Another  Member State, another of our founding colleagues, the United Kingdom has given  notice and will withdraw at the end of this year, unless, as it says, it is  satisfied that this Conference in Sofia has endorsed reforms already proposed and  has shown a determination *to continue the process of reform in programme concen-  tration, in management and in the reduction of items which lead to political con-  flict and confrontation - resolution of which is more appropriate for the  political wing of the United Nations system, the United Nations itself in New  York. The withdrawal of the United Kingdom and of that enterprising developing  country Singapore is a most grievous prospect to contemplate, and the last bien-  nium - as the Chairman of the Executive Board has told us - was a most trying  one. The Executive Board of Unesco acting on behalf of the General Conference has  had to take decisions in such a critical atmosphere with the sword of Damocles  ever dangling and ready to fall.
6.14 Yet, Mr President, you have seen how reforms have already improved the  presentation of the C/5 documents, which are more easily understood than before;  you have seen where the elaboration of the programmes has been more effectively  done; you have seen where even the organization of this Conference has been  improved over that of 1983; you have seen where a Central Evaluation Unit has now  been established, and promise made for external assessment; you have seen where  efforts have been made to improve the work of the Office of Public Information  and publications policy has been streamlined. The structure of the Secretariat is  being adjusted in line with the Board's proposals, and the staff recruitment and  management are being streamlined. The demand for a zero growth in budget has been  conceded and indeed, with the United States of America withdrawal, it has been in  effect a minus 25 per cent growth. And what major issues were there to divide us  at this Conference? The controversy over priorities of the programme is being  settled in the Commissions; the controversy over amending a financial regulation  to give the Executive Board access to the External Auditors is being resolved;  the question of continuing the reform process will, I hope, be settled by accept-  ance of any initiative which is in line with the Executive Board's declared  intention. In short, Mr President, as I proposed in the Temporary Committee, a  slimmed-down and streamlined Special Committee of the Board should be mandated to  follow up the reform process. The delicate staff questions, including termin-  ation, can explode at any time, but despite perhaps one regettable decision like  our refusing to hear the staff associations in plenary, though allowing them to  do so in the Commissions, we are on the way to defusing the issue by respecting  our Constitution and Regulations and the precedents in line with equity and  justice both at Unesco and elswhere in the. system. Mr President, no Organization  can be effective without the highest morale in the staff. We commend the  Director-General for the courage he has shown over the years in defending his
7 83    staff and in defending the Constitution. Let us tell him without hestitation that  we endorse his stand and will continue to give him every support in defence of  the principles of the constitution. We should do nothing at this Conference to  seek to depart ,from the Constitution.
6.15 Mr President, how many of us would wish to belong to Unesco if it fails  to attract,and to keep nations of diverse cultural and ideological pursuits?  Certainly a Unesco without one or other of the two superpowers would not for long  be very effective.
6.16 Let not those who have material wealth believe that we who have little  but are among the majority with the power of the vote are less interested in  reforms than they are: let them not believe that we are any less interested in  the highest standards of management than they are; let them not believe that we  are any less interested in programme concentration than they are. No, Mr Presi-  dent, we are dedicated, as any other group of States, to excellence of manage-  ment, to excellence of programme elaboration and implementation, to excellence of  evaluation and to the necessary refashioning of the machinery of Unesco to meet  the challenges of the 1980s and of the rest of this century. For, Mr President,  those who have least can afford less to lose.
6.17 Mr President, it is often thought that, because the representative of a  developing State is our Director-General, we would be so hyper-sensitive and un-  wise as to believe that every criticism of the system or of the management is an  indictment against the person of our Director-General - though, naturally, we are  very unhappy with any personal attack. No, Mr President, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow,  who in 1974 entered into office with our confidence, continues to deserve our  confidence. But he inherited a system created in 1946 and which was suitable to  the small number of States then members of the Organization. It must be clear  that such a system has to be reformed.
6.18 Already, Mr President, the wind of reform has blown through the working  methods of our Conference. I would like to see even more reform. For example,  should not the General Conference be asked to give broad policy guidelines and  leave its Executive Board to deal with the details? Why should we in six weeks be  asked to deal with so many details, when many of us do not have enough time to  even become acquainted with them?
6.19 I had wished to suggest, Mr President, that a small group of reflection  should be selected t o  meet and reflect on Unesco's achievements and on obstacles  to greater achievements over our first 40 years. Rut when 1.proposed this to our  Executive Board - admittedly in a very brief reference - there was such a hurri-  cane of opposition that quite frankly I was blown away. So to avoid my being  swamped by a similar flood, I have decided to play safe and not to propose it.  But would it not have been a good idea to invite distinguished people such as  Malcolm Adiseshah of India, John Fobes of the United States of America, Richard  Hoggart of the United Kingdom, that famous poet and academician, the former  President of Senegal, Leopld Senghor and other distinguished scholars, like  Dr Tikvinski of the Soviet Union, Professor Arthur Lewis of Saint Lucia and  Davidson Nicho1 of Sierre Leone, to meet every two years and reflect on our 40  years of achievement and the obstacles to an even greater standard of achieve-  ment? For, Mr President, I fear that if we do not initiate radical reforms from  within, others might carry out their own reform by going outside of the system.  For there is a view held by prominent circles in several countries that the  relative failure with respect to multilateralism suggests that bilateralism  should become the name of the game.
6.20 Mr President, we cannot be blind to the disillusionment in some  countries with the multilateral agencies. Developing countries are becoming dis-  illusioned with the policies of the International Monetary Fund. Some developed  countries are becoming disillusioned with the United Nations and with Unesco and  other agencies. A rule of disillusionment may be stated as follows: 'the rate of  disillusionment relates to the degree of acceptance of one's initiatives or  position in the Organization'. The less the acceptance, the more the disillusion-  ment. So, while debtor developing nations object to the harsh austerity measures  imposed by the IMF, where the power of the vote accords with the power of the  purse, developed nations tend to be disillusioned with the rest of the system,  for in the United Nations and elsewhere the power of the vote tends to overrule  the power of the purse. To keep the system in balance, and in health, both powers  must be exercised with care, caution, and a genuine interest in that consensus  necessary for international collaboration. 1 appeal to those with the power of  the purse not to intimidate and force us with the power of the vote into a corner  where we are obliged to accept bilateralism in our national endeavours, but  where, in frustration, we exploit the power of the vote in multilateral agencies  to swamp those with the power of the purse. And in turn, I appeal to my
22  colleagues with the power of the vote to resist the temptation to use it in an  intimidating manner and as a bull in the fragile china shop of international  collaboration.
6.21 By any objective assessment, Mr President, what we have done in the last  two years to strengthen the functioning of our Organization must encourage the  view that a good and solid start has been made. I contend that the pace of reform  can be quickened if the United States of America decides to 'come back to  Macedonia', to adapt the words of the Bible, and help us. We are poised for a new  leap forward in international collaboration. Let the United States of America  return to help us, and let the United Kingdom remain with us in this new crusade  to relieve mankind of the scourge of illiteracy and underdevelopment in education  and science, and to give even more massive assistance in the unceasing search for  cultural pride and manifestation of the rich diversity of our cultural heritage.
6.22 On communication, Mr President, we must be determined to remain within  our Constitution and adhere to the principle of the free flow of ideas by word  and image and that this flow must move freely between all peoples. Balance must  not come by diktat or rhetorical imposition of a new world information order, but  by determined assistance to the developing States to improve their communication  technology. It must come also by the political will of Member States to let the  flow of ideas go freely throughout their States, among their peoples and between  peoples. This is an objective of Unesco which is still far from achievement.
6.23 We regret that it has been necessary to place some of our human rights  programmes into second priority. For Unesco's record in stirring the conscience  of South Africa and of the world about the evils of apartheid has been magnifi-  cent. It has been an unrelenting, determined, dedicated effort to teach about  apartheid and the paipciples of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. And it  is succeeding. We welcome those countries which this year have begun to take  their own actions to demonstrate to the South African regime their abhorrence of  apartheid. We, in the Caribbean, have shunned contacts with South Africa for a  long time. My own country, Jamaica, has done so from as far back as 1959. I com-  mend Unesco and its Division of Human Rights, which has shown how intellectual  analysis and dissemination of information can help to arouse the conscience of  the world against the evils of racialism, and in particular apartheid.
6.24 Mr President, as I conclude a brief word again on human rights. If by  peoples' rights is meant peoples' rights to self-determination, as the distin-  guished Soviet lawyer Dr Igor Blishchenko has written in the Bulletin of the Com-  mission of the USSR for Unesco, then I can see no objection to the concept. For  we have always maintained this. Indeed, Dr Blishchenko points out in a most  illuminating article that the right of peoples to self-determination is basic to  international law and that the right of development is reflected in that right.  We maintain that individual human rights as set out in the Declaration of Human  Rights and in Covenants are the charter for the enjoyment of rights by all  peoples of the world. Let us do nothing in Unesco that would give the impression  that there can be and there is a conflict between peoples' rights and individual  human rights. To do so, would be a disservice to our Organization. I am indebted  again to Dr Blishchenko for reminding us that - and I quote - 'Marxism does not  divorce the development of society from that of the individual'.
6.25 Mr PresJdent, we are inspired by the determination of the Director-  General to see that decentralization proceeds with expedition. We in the Carib-  bean are at one with him in our desires for a fully integrated and upgraded  intersectoral office for the Caribbean subregion in Kingston, Jamaica. The  science and technology post in Trinidad and Tobago must be continued as it is  vital to our area. We are grateful to our regional electoral group and to the  General Conference for conceding three seats rightfully due to the 13 States of  the English- and Dutch-speaking Caribbean, and for electing to the Board on  Saturday the representatives of Antigua and Trinidad. We thank you very much.
6.26 Mr President, my Prime Minister, the Honourable Edward Seaga, reminded  the United Nations that the challenge to the future of the world community is  defined by technology. He said: 'The technology of telecommunications and the  computer are changing how the world functions in practical terms. People must  therefore change how they look at that world, and how they operate in it. This is  no less true for institutions'. 'Telecommunication', he said 'puts everywhere,  including space, in touch with everywhere else'. Truly, Mr President, we are 'one  world' to use Wendel Wilkie's famous phrase. The magic of telecommunications can  hasten the realization of the dream of many of us for a truly collaborating  world.
6.27 Unesco and other agencies in the system must therefore be unafraid to  reflect on radical reform. As Mr Bertrand, the Inspector of the United Nations  Joint Inspection Unit, said, and I am indebted to the Director-General for    referring us to it: 'The United Nations and its system ... have succeeded in  demonstrating that a world organization is indispensable. There is no contra-  diction in maintaining at the same time that there is a need to modernize the  present institution by a thoroughgoing reform so that it can better meet the  hopes which continue to be placed in it by so many of the peoples of the United  Nations'. We in Unesco have started on that road of reform; let us recommit our-  selves to continue it. An excellent book has been prepared under the direction of  our Director-General and is to be launched. It is called 'Unesco on the eve of  its fortieth anniversary'. Everyone interested in Unesco should get a copy of  this magnificent reflection. It will form an outstanding point of departure and a  treasure trove of information for any group of reflection which the Executive  Board might set up. In his Introduction to the book, the Director-General says  that the pages in the book 'do not constitute an evaluation of the achievements';  and rightly so. It is my view, Mr President, that it is for a group of reflection  to make that analysis and to make that evaluation.
6.28 Our Prime Minister told the United Nations last week: 'As we commemorate  this fortieth anniversary, as we renew commitment to the Organization, we must  commit ourselves to strive constantly for an efficiently functioning system in  which the interdependence of the global community is acknowledged, in which the  concerns and interest of all the constituent States, and particularly the weak-  est, are fully taken into account and in which the desire of the world's peoples  for peace, stability and personal and individual well-being and freedom consti-  tutes the common objective'. 'This', said Mr Seaga, 'is the challenge before the  United Nations and all its members'.
6.29 This, Mr President, is the challenge before Unesco. I say again to the  superpower, the United States of America, that leadership of the strong to help  the weak obliges a return to the fold of Unesco to strengthen the system, and so  strengthen the members. And I invite the United Kingdom and Singapore to reflect  on their own significant contribution to the world through Unesco over the past
40 years; and to continue to give that leadership peculiar to their own history  and development - the one rich in the tradition of human rights, individual free-  dom, and the rule of law, the other an inspiring example of how a developing  country can cope with today's problems. For I am confident that, on reflection,  both countries must conclude that leadership and co-operation from within Unesco  is better for the world and for themselves than yielding to the temptation of  sulking on the sidelines. Thank you, Mr President.
7. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Jamaïque et je donne la  parole au professeur Enrico Fulchignoni, président du Conseil international du  cinéma et de la télévision.
8.1 M. FULCHIGNONI (Conseil international du cinéma et de la télévision) :  Monsieur le Président, le Conseil international du cinéma et de la  télévision que j'ai l'honneur de présider, organisation non gouvernementale de la  catégorie A, existe depuis 1956. I1 représente l'ensemble des professions  audiovisuelles regroupées dans 30 fédérations internationales et un nombre à peu  près égal de comités nationaux établis en Europe, en Amérique latine, en Afrique  et en Asie.
8.2 C'est en leur nom que je désire vous soumettre quelques réflexions  concernant l'hvolution de l'audiovisuel depuis la vingt et unième session de la  Conférence générale. Pourquoi se rapporter à la ConfCirence de Belgrade ? Parce  que c'est en Yougoslavie, le 27 octobre 1380, que l'Unesco a décidé de considérer  les images mobiles du cinéma et de la télévision comme un "bien culturel". Que  veut dire cette décision ? Sur le plan théorique, elle revêt une importance de  premier ordre. Un bien culturel exprime l'expérience historique de chaque peuple  et détermine sa physionomie sociale. Le patrimoine culturel ainsi entendu cesse  d'être une entité pour constituer le cadre dans lequel se manifestent la créa-  tivité individuelle et collective et l'identite d'un peuple. Sur le plan pra-  tique, cette décision est fondamentale pour comprendre la place des moyens de  communication dans la civilisation contemporaine.
8.3 L'invention de Lumière et d'Edison à la fin du siècle passé, qui permet  de fixer sur un support stable le son et l'image, est une révolution totale de  l'esprit humain. Elle exprime en effet cette conquête extraordinaire que repré-  sente la possibilité de rendre fixe et durable tout ce qui, pendant des millé-  naires, était fugace et instantané. Le bond d'un fauve, le cri d'une victime, la  course d'un chasseur, l'apparition d'une tornade dans le ciel, tous ces phéno-  mènes et des milliers d'autres qui n'avaient de survivance que dans la mémoire  fragile et périssable des individus survivent matériellement depuis à peine un  siècle sous forme de structures objectives nées de la technologie. Le caduque, le  fugace, l'instantané des civilisations est là, disponible, fixé 5 tout jamais.
22  Nous pouvons le pénétrer, l'analyser, le faire réapparaître autant de fois qu'il  sera nécessaire pour le transformer en fait de conscience, ou en certitude  scientifique, ou en tremplin pour l'inspiration créatrice d'un artiste.
8.4 I1 s'agit, Mesdames et Messieurs, d'un véritable saut quantique de  l'histoire, d'un progrès immense par rapport aux outils dont disposaient nos  ancêtres pour la connaissance du monde. Répétons-le : après Lumière et Edison,  tout ce qui avait été une présence fugitive est fixé pour l'éternité ; les  anciennes apparences fugaces sont devenues une "matière" qui s 'ajoute sur terre  aux autres structures stables, le marbre, l'acier, les minéraux, d'où la notion  de biens culturels. Des millions et des milliards de traces visibles et sonores  s 'accumulent comme une poussière dans les espaces les plus imprévisibles, comme  une nouvelle couche géologique qui s'accumule sur l'écorce terrestre. Mais  laissons de côté la géologie et tournons-nous vers la biologie - les savants ne  nous invitent-ils pas de nos jours à briser les barrières qui séparent une  discipline de l'autre ? Pourquoi ne pas expérimenter de nouvelles synthèses pour  juger de nouveaux phénomènes ?
8.5 Quel est l'un des caractères les plus typiques des êtres vivants ? C'est  la reproductibilité. Pourquoi alors ne pas constater que cette nouvelle matière  née de l'audiovisuel a la même faculté de se reproduire ? Un disque, un phono-  gramme, un vidéogramme se multiplient à l'infini. Nous sommes loin d'utiliser  toutes les possibilités de ces images mobiles dans les branches fondamentales de  la culture telles que l'anthropologie, l'ethnographie, la sociologie, l'éducation  artistique, la vulgarisation scientifique. I1 nous paraît essentiel de souligner  à l'intention des responsables qui nous écoutent l'intérêt qu'aura toute décision  positive dans ce sens parce que c'est à partir d'une telle prise de conscience  qu'il sera possible, d'une part, d'éviter la perte d'un patrimoine irremplaçable  et, d'autre part, de rassembler un capital de données précieuses pour le savant,  l'historien, l'éducateur et l'artiste de demain. Toute la partie du programme de  l'Unesco qui, dans chacun des secteurs, traite des questions de collecte, d'ar-  chivage, de constitution de banques de données reçoit donc notre plein appui.
8.6 11 y a par contre un aspect de l'audiovisuel dans lequel la carence du  programme de l'Unesco est absolument flagrante. Je me souviens qu'à cette même  Conférence de Belgrade qui avait conféré le statut de "bien culturel" aux images  mobiles, une polémique s'était ouverte pendant les débats entre les défenseurs du  livre, de l'écrit, et ceux de l'audiovisuel, accusés de superficialité et de  barbarie. Nous sommes, en 1985, heureusement loin de ces logomachies. Nous  savons parfaitement, grâce aux Kurosawa, aux Renoir, aux Ousmane Sembene, aux  Fellini, que des millions, des milliards de spectateurs regardent les films et  les programmes culturels de la télévision. Ils lisent ou ne lisent pas de livres.  Ils se passionnent pour les bandes de la science-fiction. Ils lisent ou ils  regardent : le problème n'est pas là ; l'une de ces expériences culturelles  n'exclut pas l'autre : maintes preuves "a contrario" pourraient être apportées.  I1 convient de rappeler qu'un seul passage à l'antenne de Romeo et Juliette de  Shakespeare a eu en une seule soirée plus de spectateurs que dans tous les  théâtres de toutes les parties du monde depuis la première du chef-d'oeuvre du  grand William au XVIIe siècle. L'on pourrait également mentionner les réimpres-  sions et les tirages fabuleux des romans de Tolstoï, de Stendhal, de Zola, de  James, de Victor Hugo, que dis-je ?, de l'odyssée ou du Ramayana qui suivent  régulièrement chaque passage à l'antenne des chefs-d'oeuvre de la littérature  mondiale. Mais pourquoi poursuivre une polémique dénuée de sens ? C'est une  question stérile que l'Unesco doit éviter à tout prix, dans ses discussions, mais  surtout dans son programme, si nous ne voulons pas nous séparer d'un public  immense, de tous âges, qui participe à des expériences artistiques dans toutes  les parties du monde et sur tous les écrans.
8.7 Si je m'arrête à ces détails, c'est pour mettre en évidence un fait très  étrange et surprenant, sur lequel devrait se pencher quelque sociologue averti :  je veux dire l'insensibilité chronique qu'a toujours manifestée l'Unesco à  l'égard du cinéma et de la télévision en tant que formes vivantes de la sensi-  bilité de notre temps. Je pèse mes mots, Monsieur le Président. Sur les murs du  Palais de l'Unesco à Paris, on a les images immobiles, les peintures d'artistes  novateurs comme Picasso ou Matta, Afro ou Miro, des témoins authentiques de notre  époque. Mais dès que les images deviennent mobiles, on se méfie. Dès que le  cinéma et la télévision montrent le bout de leur nez, c'est un cache-cache  général, une fuite, l'escamotage feutré ... Le problème de l'absence d'un plan  d'action direct et courageux en fa.veur de l'art du cinéma et de la télévision,  notre Organisation, le Conseil international du cinéma et de la télévision, le  connaît bien. En tant que regroupement de tous les professionnels de l'audio-  visuel, nous vivons au jour le jour les batailles qui se déroulent au niveau  mondial dans ce territoire des images mobiles. I1 s'agit tout simplement de  défendre le droit à la présence. D'année en année nous intervenons auprès des  grands rassemblements, 2 Cannes, à Venise, à Montréal, à Moscou, pour que la  participation des nations en émergence soit de plus en plus mise en valeur. Nous  nous battons et nous continuerons à nous battre pour que les images mobiles    d'Afrique, d'Asie et d'Amérique latine ne soient pas enferhées dans des ghettos  mais puissent participer de plein droit à égalité avec les pays de plus haute  production. Comme je le disais tout à l'heure, le programme de l'Unesco a tou-  jours négligé la confrontation des produits dans leur forme terminale. Ce que  font l'Institut international du théâtre, le Conseil international de la musique,  l'Association internationale des arts plastiques, nos organisations non gouver-  nementales soeurs dans le secteur de la culture, nous ne pouvons pas le faire  dans le domaine des images mobiles. C'est toute la profession des artistes  créateurs de l'audiovisuel qui se trouve ainsi dans un ghetto.
8.8 Et ceci nous paraît grave. La culture en effet ne résulte pas seulement  de l'accumulation de notions reçues mais aussi et surtout de la créativité par  laquelle chaque groupe de spécialistes organise ses propres expériences en les  mettant! en rapport avec les expériences des autres. Elle naît donc d'un processus  critique ininterrompu grâce auquel, par l'analyse et la comparaison des produits,  on arrive à fixer des valeurs.
8.9 Si je parle avec une telle franchise, c'est que les industries des  images culturelles sont dans une sltuation préoccupante ; certaines même dans un  état de crise grave. Ceci ne concerne pas seulement le programme de l'Unesco mais  beaucoup d'organismes privés et gouvernementaux, aussi bien dans les pays déve-  loppés que dans les pays en développement. Cette attitude de méfiance est res-  ponsable d'un des plus grands détournements culturels que notre époque con-  naisse : celui qui transforme les jeunes créateurs de films ou d'autres images  mobiles, surtout dans les nations du tiers monde, en marginaux, en chômeurs et  contestataires perpétuels, en faisant une place de plus en plus grande aux  médiocres au détriment des créateurs et des poètes. Monsieur le Président,  l'Unesco a une forte et belle tâche à accomplir dans ce domaine dans un avenir  prochain. Nous l'attendons, nous l'espérons, nous le voulons. Merci.
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the representative of the International Film and Television Council  and I now invite Mr Kostii Andreev, representative of the World Federation of Trade  Unions and Secretary of the Central Council of Bulgarian Trade Unions, to take the  floor.  (M. Putzeys Alvarez, Guatemala, prend la présidence)
10.1 M. ANDREEV (Fédération syndicale mondiale) :  (discours prononcé en bulgare ; texte français fourni par la délégation)  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, camarades, je voudrais  avant tout exprimer ma reconnaissance d'avoir été invité à participer à cette  Conférence et à prendre la parole au nom de la Fédération syndicale mondiale qui  regroupe quelque 215 millions de travailleurs du monde entier. En tant que  représentant de la Fédération syndicale mondiale et en tant que Bulgare, je suis  fier que cette Conférence ait lieu dans mon pays, connu pour son hospitalité  généreuse.
10.2 Entre l'Unesco et la Fédération syndicale mondiale existent des rapports  de coopération durable et fructueuse, qui ont presque quarante ans d'histoire.  C'est une coopération qui s'étend aussi bien dans le domaine de la culture et de  l'éducation que dans la lutte pour la paix et la justice sociale. Cette coopé-  ration est basée sur les objectifs communs que se fixent l'Unesco et la Fédé-  ration syndicale mondiale.
10.3 Nous avons pris connaissance du Projet de programme et de budget de  l'Unesco pour la période 1986-1987 et nous l'avons étudié du point de vue des  intérêts vitaux des travailleurs. Nous avons présenté par écrit notre position  aux organes de la Conférence générale. Voilà pourquoi je ne m'arrêterai que sur  certaines questions que la Fédération syndicale mondiale considère comme étant  particulièrement importantes et d'actualité du fait de leur caractère mondial.
10.4 Je traiterai en premier lieu du problème de la sauvegarde de la paix. En  premier lieu, car si une guerre nucléaire éclatait, tout le reste perdrait son  sens. I1 serait alors trop tard pour tout, étant donné que tout, les fruits de la  civilisation et l'oeuvre la plus parfaite de la nature - l'homme, serait réduit  en poussière. Parlant de l'oeuvre la plus parfaite de la nature, nous voyons dans  le même temps combien sont loin de la perfection ceux qui, avec leurs plans de
22  guerre sur terre et de guerre des étoiles, poussent l'humanité vers. son auto-  destruction. Par conséquent, et à la suite de ces plans et actions, une situation  nouvelle s'est créée ces dernières années dans le monde ; la tension atteint son  point critique ; la confrontation est devenue le trait caractéristique des  relations entre les Etats à régimes sociaux différents, tandis que les chances de  stopper l'escalade vers la guerre fondent littéralement devant nos yeux.
10.5 "Si nous ne voulons pas mourir ensemble dans une guerre, nous devons  apprendre à vivre ensemble dans la paix." Ces paroles, prononcées lors de la  fondation de l'organisation des Nations Unies, sont plus que d'actualité de nos  jours aussi.
10.6 I1 est vrai que le monde contemporain est fort divers. Nous vivons sous  des régimes sociaux différents ; nous professons des opinions philosophiques et  politiques différentes, nous avons différents systèmes de valeurs. Mais aucune  des valeurs n'est comparable en importance à la paix - la valeur humaine suprême,  le droit et le bien humains le plus cher. La paix doit être au-dessus de tout si  nous voulons survivre aujourd'hui et demain ! Et pour ce faire, il faut nous  unir ; il faut agir, lutter pour le désarmement, pour la réduction des dépenses  militaires qui ont atteint un milliard de dollars par jour et représentent un  lourd fardeau, surtout pour les travailleurs.
10.7 I1 n'existe véritablement pas d'autre solution. Nous sommes tous res-  ponsables de l'avenir et nous nous devons de le défendre de toutes nos forces. I1  n'est certes pas nécessaire de prouver combien le rôle des promoteurs de la  culture, des sciences et de l'enseignement est important en ce sens. I1 n'est  certes pas nécessaire de prouver que la culture aura accompli son devoir si, par  ses valeurs, elle consolide le front de la paix, si elle éveille et forme la  conscience antimilitariste, encourage la coopération et le respect entre les  peuples, affirme le génie, non pas destructeur, mais créateur de l'homme !
10.8 Notre responsabilité face à l'avenir de l'humanité, face à l'avenir de  nos enfants, est énorme. Nous devons en prendre conscience et engager des actions  tant qu'il n'est pas encore trop tard ! I1 faut le faire dès maintenant ; se  servir de tout le potentiel matériel et intellectuel dont nous disposons pour  créer un monde sûr, confortable et humain pour les hommes ! I1 faut le faire, et  maintenant.
10.9 Un pas important vers ces objectifs peut être fait l'année prochaine,  année du 40e anniversaire de l'Unesco et Année internationale de la paix. La  Fédération syndicale mondiale, pour sa part, est prête à concourir à la réali-  sation de toutes les initiatives de l'Unesco qui tendent vers ces objectifs  élevés.
10.10 Le deuxième problème que je voudrais évoquer est celui de la démocra-  tisation de la culture. I1 est notoire que la culture ne peut exister comme un  but en soi. Le contenu historique de la culture est d'être au service de l'homme.  Plus il est d'hommes qui participent à la création, plus il est d'hommes qui  entrent en contact avec sa flamme créatrice, plus vite ce pas historique sera  fait par l'humanité. Mais malheureusement, dans notre siècle de lumière, aussi,  des millions de gens se trouvent en dehors du champ de la culture, vivent dans  l'ignorance et dans les ténèbres spirituelles. De nos jours, les analphabètes  sont plus de 900 millions, et nous ne comptons pas les semi-analphabètes et les  gens dépourvus de toute formation. Quelle honte, en effet, pour la civilisation  contemporaine !
10.11 L'analphabétisme, l'instruction insuffisante, le bas niveau de culture,  voilà le sort amer de millions d'ouvriers et de paysans. Sans doute ce problème  revêt-il un caractère social, un caractère de classe, et les appels sont loin  d'être suffisants pour sa solution. Ces problèmes sont particulièrement aigus  dans les pays où règnent des régimes de terreur et l'apartheid, le racisme et les  lois du néo-colonialisme. I1 est nécessaire d'exercer une pression, forte et  organisée, une pression agissante de la part de toute l'opinion mondiale sur les  gouvernements pour la démocratisation de la culture et de l'enseignement ; il est  nécessaire d'apporter une plus grande aide et un soutien aux forces qui luttent  contre l'ignorance et l'analphabétisme, pour élever le niveau culturel des masses  laborieuses. La Fédération syndicale mondiale est particulièrement soucieuse de  voir cette lutte triompher car la culture et l'enseignement à notre époque de  révolution scientifique et culturelle, deviennent une condition indispensable au  travail de l'homme, à son épanouissement professionnel et social.
10.12 A cet égard, je voudrais attirer votre attention sur certaines questions  plus concrètes. I1 est normal que les Etats aient parfois des points de vue  différents sur des problèmes importants. Mais à notre avis, il est tout à fait  anormal de voir ces différences servir de prétexte à des confrontations et au  rejet de la grande oeuvre de l'Unesco. Nous estimons qu'avec du bon sens et une
789    volonté de dialogue, on peut toujours trouver le chemin vers ce qui unit. Dans la  conjoncture actuelle de restrictions financières, la Fédération syndicale mon-  diale comprend la nécessité de sérier les besoins et d'accorder une attention  prioritaire à certains problèmes. Mais nous aimerions que le choix des priorités  ne se fasse pas' au détriment des travailleurs et surtout des travailleurs des  pays en développement.
10.13 La Fédération syndicale mondiale apprécie positivement le programme de  l'Unesco dans le domaine de l'enseignement. Mais néanmoins nous proposons d'en-  richir cette partie qui concerne l'enseignement des adultes afin de pouvoir  appliquer les recommandations de la Ive Conférence internationale sur ce sujet.  Nous insistons également pour le maintien des moyens accordés aux responsables de  l'éducation des travailleurs, surtout dans les pays en développement. Parallè-  lement, l'activité des syndicats en vue de l'alphabétisation serait plus efficace  s'ils disposaient de moyens accrus et s'ils avaient de meilleures possibilités de  collaborer avec les gouvernements.
10.14 S'agissant des problèmes de l'information, la Fédération syndicale  mondiale estime que les questions les plus importantes sont posées de façon juste  et doivent être étudiées sérieusement, si délicates qu'elles soient. La Fédéra-  tion syndicale mondiale et ses organisations connaissent bien ces problèmes. Là  aussi se pose la question de la démocratisation des communications ainsi que le  problème de l'information juste, d'une information qui édifie les ponts de la  compréhension internationale au lieu de les détruire, qui sème la confiance et  non la haine entre les peuples, qui sache rapprocher et unir les hommes au nom de  leurs intérêts communs.
10.15 Nous sommes aussi désireux de voir l'Unesco intensifier son activité  dans le domaine du développement. I1 y a un an, s'est tenue, à Sofia, la 36e  session du Conseil général de la Fédération syndicale mondiale dont le thème  central était : "Le rôle des syndicats dans le développement". Nous estimons que  la participation des syndicats et des autres organisations de masse à l'élabo-  ration et à la réalisation des projets de développement est utile et que la  coopération régionale, basée sur l'intérêt commun, doit s'accroître.
10.16 Mesdames et Messieurs, camarades, les problèmes auxquels nous nous  heurtons ne sont pas sans issue, si complexes et délicats qu'ils soient. La  solution n'est pas dans la confrontation mais dans l'entente, dans la lutte  antimilitariste, dans l'effort commun, dans le souci commun de la paix, du  progrès social, économique et intellectuel. Nous savons que, n'en déplaise à  certains milieux, le monde s'achemine vers une rénovation sociale profonde et la  force motrice de cette rénovation, ce sont les classes laborieuses. L'avenir leur  appartient. Et la véritable culture est celle qui est au service des travail-  leurs. Le véritable humanisme est celui qui traduit les intérêts des travail-  leurs. C'est là la grande vérité.
10.17 La Fédération syndicale mondiale oeuvrera sans trève pour le triomphe de  cette vérité, pour que le monde soit meilleur, de même que la vie de millions de  travailleurs. Merci de votre attention.
11. El PRESIDENTE:  Doy las gracias al representante de la Federación Sindical Mundial, e  invito a hacer uso de la palabra al Sr. Romesh Chandra, Presidente del Consejo  Mundial de la Paz.  (Il) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the representative of the World Federation of Trade Unions and now  invite Mr Romesh Chandra, the Secretary-General of the World Peace Council, to take  the floor.
12.1 Mr CHANDRA (World Peace Council):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,  permit me to join all others who have spoken before me in congratulating the  Government and people of Bulgaria for the excellent manner in which they have  hosted this twenty-third session of the General Conference of Unesco. Bulgaria's  peace policy has won for it recognition and support all over the world. This  country is totally committed to all the basic aims and objectives, all the  activities of Unesco. In fact, if I may say so, what makes this session so  important is the fact that we know that every citizen of the country in which we  meet is following what we are saying, what we are doing, and what we are  deciding.
12.2 The outstanding writers and artists, scientists, educationists and other  intellectuals of Bulgaria are playing a vital role in carrying forward the work  of Unesco in all fields.
12.3 I think at this moment of that ou'tstanding daughter of the Sulgarian  people - the late Lyudmiïa Zhivkova. Those of us who had the privilege of knowing  her, meeting her and working with her know how dedicated she was, how enthusi-  astic she was, at all times, for Unesco and for all that it stands for. She was  dedicated to the cause of culture, of comprehension, of understanding among  people, of what she rightly described for the children as beauty, creativity and  unity; her work will always inspire creative workers in all countries.
12.4 Mr President, we are meeting here at a moment when in all parts of the  world, governments and peoples are marking the fortieth anniversary of the foun-  dation of the United Nations. 1945 saw the defeat of German fascism and Japanese  militarism. Fifty millions gave their lives in this struggle. The Soviet Union  alone lost 20 millions of its best citizens. And at that time the peoples pledged  themselves to be true to the memory of the dead and to work together to ensure  that there would never again be another world conflagration.
12.5 The United Nations was created to enable the representatives of the  peoples to act together against the menace of war and to build a new life for  all. The four decades that have passed since 1945 have seen the rapid development  of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction. New weapons of death on Earth  and plans for the weaponization of outer space threaten to extinguish human life  forever. We are not talking now of a Third World War, we are talking of the last  war, which could well destroy everything living on this earth.
12.6 Never was the danger of nuclear devastation as great as it is today. And  at the same time, never was the threat to national independence, to the  sovereignty of countries, as great as it is today. Never have Poverty, hunger,  malnutrition and disease taken such a heavy toll as today; hundreds of millions  are threatened with death through want, when there can be plenty for all. And  before every individual is one key task - that of the prevention of nuclear war,  of defending the independence, sovereignty of countries, defending this world and  creating a new world free of domination and exploitation, free of colonialism,  neocolonialism, racism and apartheid.
12.7 Mr President, the World Peace Council has a long history of co-operation  with Unesco. We are a mass movement which has representatives from 141 countries  in all continents. We are a movement which is dedicated to all the questions for  which Unesco stands. And we would like to express our full support for the pro-  posals and programmes which have been put forward at this session by the  Director-General. His commitment to Unesco's ideals and his tireless work for  them has won for him the appreciation and affection of all peoples, and we bring  to him messages of that support from every corner of this world. From ordinary  people who stand for Unesco, who have open confidence in Unesco and therefore  support the activities of this great Organization.
12.8 We are in full agreement with the spirit in which the overwhelming  majority of delegations are acting in this session, with the aim of strengthening  Unesco and carrying forward the remarkable contribution which it has made over  these years. Unesco lives and grows and shall live and shall grow. No one - no  government, however powerful - can destroy the bright light of knowledge, hope  and confidence which Unesco brings to every corner of this earth.
12.9 We are particularly happy at the important role which Unesco assigns to  non-governmental organizations in document 23 C/5. Without the active partici-  pation of public opinion, on behalf of which non-oovernmental organizations speak  and act, many projects of great urgency, contributing and corresponding to the  broadest aspirations of the peoples, cbuld not be implemented.
12.10 No resolution of the United Nations or of Unesco can be implemented  without the active participation of ordinary peoples, and it is that active co-  operation which the non-governmental organizations in the World Peace Council  seek to bring to Unesco's decisions. The World Peace Council shares the concerns  expressed by many regarding the difficulties which Unesco faces at this time. In  fact, I think it has been rightly described as an attack aimed at the destabliz-  ation of Unesco which we are facing. One of the leading Member States has with-  drawn from the Organization. There is another which may follow. Unesco's univer-  sality is threatened. The World Peace Council is in full agreement with the point  of view expressed by Member States belonging to the Non-Aligned Movement and the  Group of 77, expressed by the socialist countries and by many Western European  Member States, which do not accept and reject the arguments used to 'explain' or  'justify' withdrawal or threats of withdrawal.
12.11 Unesco concerns itself with building international understanding, with  creating a climate of peace, which would help to halt the armaments race, with  assisting in ensuring communication among peoples, with bringing about a more  equitable economic order. These are urgent issues which are of primary concern to
791    all men and women working in the fields of education, science and culture. That  is why Unesco deals with these issues, without of course in any way replacing the  United Nations work in these fields. And yet, Unesco is accused of 'politiciz-  ation' precisely because it addresses itself to these issues, key issues for all  humanity, and this is made the pretext for withdrawal ox threats of withdrawal  from the Organization.
12.12 The World Peace Council declares its full agreement with all those who  have stated that a concern for these vital issues is the legitimate responsi-  bility and indeed a major responsibility of Unesco. Since its foundation, Unesco  seeks to create in the minds of human beings this international understanding,  this will for peace without which this earth would face a nuclear conflagration.  All over the world peoples understand this role of Unesco and support that role.
12.13 We cannot accept the arguments of those who attack Unesco, who are  indeed attacking the entire system of the United Nations, that the decision to  withdraw or to remain must be based solely on the strictly 'national interests'  of a certain Member State and on the benefits or lack of them which accrue to the  profits of powerful financial corporations and economic institutions of that  Member State.
12.14 Certain forces in some countries have begun to talk rather glibly of  so-called 'alternatives' to the communication or information programmes of  Unesco. We must state clearly that these so-called 'alternatives' in fact lead to  the strengthening of the control over such sectors by private interests whose  objectives and aims do not and cannot coincide with those laid down by Unesco and  with which we are in full agreement.
12.15 EIr President, the Draft Programme for 1986-1987 is certainly and rightly  an ambitious programme and may seem to be difficult to implement in some cases.  But it is a remarkable programme in regard to its breadth and its aims which are  identical with our own programme of action.
12.16 Financial difliculties create the danger of reductions in regard to  certain vital fields of work. We would like to express our strong desire that a  proper and just balance should be maintained between, on the one hand, the work  of reflection and study, which has been till now regarded as of the highest  importance, and on the other, work on the strictly operational level. Some would  like to give priority to the latter to the detriment of fundamental research, for  the development of the least privileged nations and the strengthening of inter-  national relations. We would like to emphasize also the, necessity to maintain  Major Programme III, Communication in the service of man. The studies envisaged -  particularly concerning the ideas for a new information order and the activities  dealing with the contribution of the media to the strengthening of peace and  international understanding - are in full conformity with the main aims of  Unesco.
12.17 Mr President, we offer the full co-operation of our Organization in this  field and are confident that the General Conference will emphasize the necessity  for co-operation with NGOs in all activities in the sector of communication.
12.18 The World Peace Council attaches great importance to Major Pro-  gramme XII1 concerning peace and international understanding, human rights and  the rights of peoples. May we also say how attached we are and appreciate Major  Programme VIII, Principles, methods and strategies of action for development. We  are also attached very much to Major Programme XII, The elimination of prejudice,  intolerance, racism and apartheid. The World Peace Council will co-operate most  actively with Unesco on these issues and indeed in all other fields of Unesco's  work all of which coincide with our special interest and our programme of work.  We are concerned, as indeed are many others, at certain unwarranted proposals for  changes in priorities. For example, we cannot agree with the proposal to lower  the priorities, under Programme 111.1.1, for technical and financial assistance  by Member States to NGOs, to professional associations and research institutes  for carrying out studies on the problems of communication. There are other such  instances also where we would regret changes in priorities.
12.19 Let me, however, repeat that the World Peace Council is determined to  act as it has done through all the years since its foundation: to act in all ways  for the implementation of all programmes of Unesco and particularly those which  will be decided upon by this General Conference. The national organizations and  movements represented in our Council from 141 countries of all continents will  act, together with the National Commissions of Unesco and separately, to carry  the message of Unesco to the vast masses of people. The World Peace Council's  Standing Commissions of Scientists, Cultural Workers and Educationalists axe  engaged in mobilizing public opinion in support of Unesco programmes. Our pro-  gramme for 1986, the Year of Peace, envisages several conferences, meetings,
792    seminars, dialogues and symposia to support Unesco's programme. Lek me draw  attention at this time to the role being played by scientists all over the world.  I draw particular attention to the role of scientists in the United States of  America. Hundreds of them - among them many Nobel Prize winners - have signed  pledges that they will never take part in any research or other activities  associated with the 'Star Wars' plans, with the weaponization of outer space,  with the so-called 'Strategic Defence Initiative'. In fact, one can say that one  recalls the appeal many years ago by Russell and Einstein. Here is the response  of a kind that has never been made before, scientists actually coming forward and  declaring that they will not participate in the destruction of humanity, which  such a 'Star Wars' programme would certainly lead to. Never before have so many  men and women of culture and science joined together to support Unesco's work.
12.20 Recently the organization International Physicians for Prevention of  Nuclear War has been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. It is a young organization  but embraces medical men and women in many countries and is spreading very fast.  Somebody might say that the medical men are being 'politicized'. The fact is that  the physicians are acting in the best traditions of their great profession of  healing and prevention of disease and they point out that if they do not act  against nuclear war they will not be acting against what they call the last  epidemic. Therefore it is perfectly part of their duties as doctors, as men who  bring healing to the suffering, to act today on the most important question  facing humanity - the prevention of a nuclear war.
12.21 Performing artists have joined hands in the international movement of  performing artists against the nuclear danger. How many artists joined together  to collect funds on a vast scale for sending to the victims of the famine in  Africa? Famine created by the same forces which profit from hunger and which  profit from the making of weapons of death. Organizations of Writers for Peace,  Educators for Peace are being formed in many countries.
12.22 Mr President the World Peace Council is proud to be associated with  Unesco and with its Member States. It has already begun to prepare to mark the  year 2000 - the start of the third millenium. And we are confident that Unesco  will decide to begin preparations also to mark that occasion. Peace shall be the  watchword - education, science and culture at the service of all humanity. Can we  not wipe out illiteracy at least by the year 2000? Can we not wipe out hunger,  poverty and disease at least by the year 2000? Yes we can, if we can divert even  a small part of the criminally wasted resources which go to the preparation of  weapons of death and destruction to the making of life for all peoples. We can  do this together, the people and the governments which stand for the aims of  Unesco so that it may bring a new humanism, a new understanding, a new sympathy  and support among peoples of all countries, whatever their differences might be.  We believe that we can march forward with Unesco, with the United Nations, to a  better world, to the world of peace by the year 2000. It is to that that we  dedicate all our aims. Unesco lives; Unesco grows; no power, however large it may  be, can stop the onward march of the United Nations and Unesco. Thank you,  Mr President.
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the representative of the World Peace Council and now invite  Mr Charles Nyandwi, Minister of Higher Education and Scientific Research and Head of  the Delegation of Rwanda, to take the floor.
14.1 M. NYANDWI (Rwanda) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif,  Monsieur le Directeur général, Messieurs les chefs de délégations, Mesdames,  Messieurs, permettez-moi d' abord de m'acquitter d'un agréable devoir et de  m'associer aux orateurs qui m'ont précédé à cette tribune pour exprimer à  M. Nikolaï Todorov, au nom de la d6légation rwandaise et en mon nom propre, mes  chaleureuses félicitations pour son élection à la présidence de la vingt-troi-  sième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco. Son expérience représente un  gage de réussite pour notre conférence dont il assure avec compétence et sagesse  la direction des travaux depuis deux semaines déjà.
14.2 Je voudrais en outre transmettre au peuple bulgare et au respecté  Président du Conseil d'Etat, le camarade Todor Jivkov, le salut amical du peuple  rwandais et leur exprimer en même temps mes sincères remerciements pour la  chaleur de l'accueil qui nous a été réservé.. I1 me plaît, Monsieur le PrésidenE,  de souligner que nos deux pays entretiennent des relations faites d'une coopé-  ration fructueuse notamment dans le domaine de l'éducation.
14.3 Je suis très heureux enfin d'exprimer à notre Directeur général,  M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, ainsi qu'au Conseil exécutif et au Secrétariat, mes vives  félicitations pour leur courage et leur savoir-faire dans la réalisation du  programme adopté à Paris lors de la vingt-deuxième session. Ma délégation  apprécie toue particulièrement les grandes réformes entreprises par le Directeur  général en vue d'une plus grande efficacité de notre Organisation, dont l'exer-  cice biennal écoulé aura sans doute été le plus difficile de son histoire.
14.4 Monsieur le Président, selon les termes mêmes de son Acte constitutif,  l'Unesco a été créée en vue d'"atteindre graduellement, par la coopération des  nations du monde dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science et de la cul-  ture, les buts de paix internationale et de prospérité commune de l'humanité'' et  de "contribuer au maintien de la paix et de la sécurité en resserrant, par  l'éducation, la science et la culture, la collaboration entre nations, afin  d'assurer le respect universel de la justice, de la loi, des droits de l'homme et  des libertés fondamentales pour tous, sans distinction de race, de sexe, de  langue ou de religion".
14.5 Depuis bientôt quarante . ans, 1 'Unesco a oeuvré inlassablement pour  mettre fin à l'analphabétisme, pour démocratiser l'enseignement, pour sauvegarder  le patrimoine culturel et naturel de l'humanité, pour promouvoir les échanges de  données d'expérience en matière de science et de technologie et pour contribuer à  une circulation mieux équilibrée de l'information.
14.6 Je voudrais, Monsieur le Président, dire de cette tribune que le Rwanda  adhère toujours aux nobles idéaux de justice, de paix et de solidarité qui ont  présidé à la création de l'Unesco. J'affirme que ces idéaux restent d'actualité.  Le gouvernement rwandais considère que l'Unesco a joué et continue à jouer un  rôle irremplaçable dans la consolidation de la paix et dans la recherche d'un  nouvel ordre mondial plus équitable, fondé sur la coopération culturelle et  scientifique. J'invite par conséquent les Etats membres à apporter un soutien  ferme et accru à notre Organisation afin qu'elle puisse continuer à répondre de  manière satisfaisante aux espoirs placés en elle par l'humanité tout entière.
14.7 Monsieur le Président, je souhaite à présent vous faire part des  observations de la délégation rwandaise sur le Projet de programme et de budget  pour l'exercice biennal 1986-1987.
14.8 Tout d'abord, ma délégation tient à féliciter le Directeur général et le  Secrétariat pour la qualité du document soumis à notre examen. La délégation  rwandaise est en effet heureuse de constater que le Projet de programme et de  budget a été élaboré en prenant pour cadre conceptuel le deuxième Plan à moyen  terme. Nous avons apprécié en outre la présentation du projet en deux volumes,  l'un de politique générale contenant les grandes lignes du programme, l'autre  donnant une description détaillée du programme. Le projet a également le mérite  de mettre en évidence les activités prioritaires, ce qui facilite les choix qu'il  faudra opérer puisque le nouveau Projet de budget se caractérise par une crois-  sance zéro et que l'organisation se voit privée de 25 % de ses ressources po-  tentielles. Le Projet de programme et de budget reflète indéniablement un effort  de réflexion approfondie qui devrait être poursuivi et dont nous félicitons le  Directeur général.
14.9 Ma délégation, Monsieur le Président, considère que le grand programme I  (Réflexion sur les grands problèmes mondiaux et études prospectives) répond à la  mission de coopération intellectuelle internationale de l'Unesco et elle appuie  donc les activités proposées au titre de ce grand programme dans son option 2.
14.10 Je voudrais également apporter le soutien de mon pays aux grands pro-  grammes II, IV et V relatifs à l'éducation, qui doit être le fer de lance de  l'action de l'Unesco. Ces programmes visent en effet à promouvoir la partici-  pation des populations aux programmes d'éducation, à assurer des chances égales  d'accès et de succès à tous les enfants, à développer la coopération interna-  tionale en matière d'éducation et à promouvoir des systèmes d'éducation répondant  mieux aux besoins de développement de nos sociétés.
14.11 L'effort entrepris depuis 1979 par le gouvernement et le peuple rwandais  en vue de rénover le système éducatif hérité de la période coloniale procède des  mêmes objectifs et donc d'une identité de conception de l'éducation comme facteur  essentiel du développement. La mise en place des nouvelles structures est pra-  tiquement achevée puisque les premiers lauréats de l'enseignement postprimaire  appelé "enseignement rural et artisanal intégré" sont sortis en juillet dernier  et que ceux de l'enseignement secondaire réformé sortiront en 1987. Les pro-  grammes rénovés de l'enseignement primaire, de l'enseignement rural et artisanal  intégré et de 1 ' enseignement secondaire sont disponibles et ont été élaborés  donformément aux instructions que le président de la République, S. Exc. le  Général-Major Habyarimana, a données dans son discours-programme du ler août
1973, en souhaitant que l'éducation, dans notre pays, s'attache à former des  citoyens responsables, capables de participer utilement à l'effort de dévelop-  pement national.
14.12 La réforme scolaire a permis un accroissement sensible des effectifs de  l'enseignement primaire, postprimaire et secondaire. Le Ministère chargé de ces  degrés d'enseignement s'attèle, à présent, à consolider les acquis par des  mesures tendant à élever le niveau de qualification des maîtres et à fournir du  mobilier et des matériels didactiques. Cependant, s'agissant de l'enseignement  secondaire caractérisé par le régime de l'internat et l'insuffisance de la  capacité d'accueil, le grand défi reste l'élargissement, sinon la suppression, du  goulot d'étranglement qui existe entre l'école primaire et ce niveau. Cela est  d'autant plus impérieux que le taux de scolarisation dans notre enseignement  secondaire reste parmi les plus faibles et qu'il est difficile de l'améliorer et  même de le maintenir à son niveau à cause de la poussée démographique.
14.13 Quant à notre Université nationale, elle se prépare à accueillir en 1987  les premiers lauréats de l'enseignement secondaire réformé. La période actuelle  est marquée par une intense réflexion et une série d'études en vue d'identifier  .les forces et les faiblesses de notre enseignement supérieur. L'objectif pri-  mordial est la détermination des besoins réels du pays en cadres supérieurs, afin  de mettre en place les filières de formation appropriées, compte tenu des besoins  économiques, sociaux et culturels du Rwanda. La refonte des options et des  programmes d'enseignement s.'accompagne d'un programme de perfectionnement des  professeurs de l'université dans le domaine de la communication pédagogique et de  la pédagogie universitaire, armes efficaces pour endiguer les. déperditions qui  caractérisent le système actuel. C'est pourquoi nous accueillons favorablement le  sous-programme V. 5 "Enseignement supérieur, formation et recherche" du grand  programme V.
14.14 Parallèlement à ce programme gigantesque de rénovation du systême  éducatif de notre pays, le gouvernement rwandais continue à affecter d'importants  moyens à la lutte contre l'analphabétisme, qu'il considère à juste titre comme un  des freins du développement. Mon pays se réjouit par conséquent de l'attention  que continue de retenir le Programme régional d'élimination de l'analphabétisme  en Afrique. Je forme le voeu que l'Unesco parvienne avant l'an 2000 à éradiquer  l'analphabétisme dans le monde.
14.15 Dans le domaine de l'éducation, ma délégation se félicite des activités  prévues dans le grand programme IV en vue d'améliorer la formation des ensei-  gnants ainsi que la qualité des services éducatifs, notamment en ce qui concerne  les contenus, les méthodes et les matériels d'enseignement. Nous apprécions  également tout ce qui vise le renforcement de la coopération internationale,  régionale et sous-régionale en matière d'éducation.
14.16 En ce qui concerne le grand programme III (La communication au service  des hommes), Monsieur le Président, ma délégation appuie le Directeur général  dans sa volonté continue de contribuer à l'établissement de relations plus  équilibrées sur le plan de la production et de la diffusion de l'information.  Nous appuyons par conséquent le renforcement des activités du Programme inter-  gouvernemental pour le développement de la communication. Nous saisissons cette  occasion pour remercier l'Unesco et le gouvernement français pour le soutien  accordé au développement de l'Agence rwandaise de presse et de son programme de  ruralisation de la communication, destiné à éduquer la population rurale et à la  mobiliser en vue du développement endogène. Nous formulons les mêmes remercie-  ments pour l'aide apportée par l'Unesco 2 l'Agence panafricaine d'information  (PANA).
14.17 Monsieur le Président, les grands programmes VI et IX relatifs à la  science et à la technique s'accordent avec les préoccupations de mon pays.  Plusieurs faits peuvent en témoigner. Tout d'abord, la création au Rwanda en 1981  d'un département spécialement chargé des questions relatives à la recherche  scientifique et technologique. Ensuite, l'adoption en 1983, par le Ive Congrès du  mouvement révolutionnaire national pour le développement, d'un document définis-  sant la politique de la recherche scientifique au Rwanda. Tout récemment, le  gouvernement rwandais a décidé la création d'un Comité interministériel de  coordination en matière de recherche scientifique et technique, afin de garantir  que la recherche soit orientée avant tout vers la solution des problèmes de  développement du pays. En outre, pour inciter les jeunes à la recherche, le Chef  de l'Etat, S. Exc. le Général-Major Habyarimana, a décidé de créer un Fonds  national pour la promotion de la recherche scientifique. Enfin, et dans la même  voie, un projet de statut du chercheur a été élaboré et est en cours d'examen par  les instances compétentes.
14.18 Aussi, dans la ligne des recommandations de la Conférence des Nations  Unies sur la science et la technique au service du développement et dans la ligne  du plan d'action de Lagos, mon pays déploie-t-il un effort considérable en vue de  l'élaboration d'une méthodologie de planification de la recherche qui permette la  détermination des programmes prioritaires et par là 1 'utilisation adéquate des  ressources disponibles, souvent limitées d'ailleurs. C'est pourquoi, Monsieur le  Président, la délégation rwandaise appuie globalement les différentes actions  proposées qui visent à soutenir les efforts des pays membres et en particulier  des pays en développement en matière de recherche, de formation universitaire et  postuniversitaire, d'amélioration des infrastructures scientifiques et tech-  niques, de vulgarisation scientifique et technologique et, enfin, de formation du  personnel chargé des politiques et de la planification du développement scien-  tifique et technologique.
14.19. Monsieur le Président, la délégation rwandaise constate avec satis-  faction la très haute priorité accordée à la culture dans le Projet de programme  et de budget'pour l'exercice biennal 1986-1987. Les activités prévues au titre du  grand programme XI (La culture et l'avenir) rejoignent la conception du gouver-  nement rwandais en matiëre de cXveloppement culturel. Nous apportons donc notre  appui aux activités visant la formation d.es personnels chargés de la prgservation  du patrinxine et de la conception et de i'ex6cution des programmes de dévelop-  pement culturel. Nous soutenons également les activites d'encouragement à la  création littéraire et artistique et de stimulation de la participation des  populations à la vie culturelle et celles qui visent la sauvegarde du patrimoine.
14.20 Le gouvernement rwandais considère la culture comme le fondement même du  développement en ce qu'elle constitue sans aucun doute la principale force  mobilisatrice des énergies productives. Le Ive Congrès du Mouvement révolution-  naire national de développement, réuni à Kigali du 26 au 30 juin 1983, a défini  la politique culturelle du pays, laquelle vise principalement la préservation et  la mise en valeur du patrimoine culturel rwandais, la mise en place de supports  de l'action culturelle, l'incitation à la création littéraire et artistique ainsi  que la stimulation de la coopération culturelle internationale. Un colloque  national sur le développement culturel, organisé du 25 au 31 mars 1985, a permis  d'évaluer l'action des pouvoirs publics en ce domaine et de faire des proposi-  ti.ons concrètes pour l'action future.
14.21 Sans doute, Monsieur le Président, la réalisation la plus marquante de  ces deux dernières années a-t-elle été la célébration, le 8 septembre dernier, de  la Journée de la culture rwandaise. Dans l'important message qu'il a adressé à la  nation à cette occasion, le président de la République, S: Exc. le Général-Major  Habyarimana, a annoncé sa décision d' institutionnaliser cette Journée de la  culture rwandaise qui, désormais, sera célébrée le 8 septembre de chaque année.  Cette décision témoigne, s'il en est besoin, de l'importance que les plus hautes  autorités rwandaises reconnaissent à la culture dans le développement de l'homme  dans toutes ses dimensions. C'est pourquoi nous souscrivons à l'initiative de  l'Unesco de faire proclamer une Décennie du développement culturel. J'a.jouterai,  Monsieur le Président, que le Rwanda a contribué au renforcement de la coopéra-  tion culturelle sous-régionale en participant, en 1982, à la création du Centre  international des civilisations bantoues (CLCIBA) dont le délégué gabonais a  exposé les objectifs à cette même tribune.
14.22 Dans le domaine de la culture, je remercie l'Unesco pour le soutien.  qu'elle n'a cessé d'apporter à mon pays en vue de la collecte de la tradition  orale, de la publication d'ouvrages littéraires en kinyarwanda, notre langue  nationale, et en vue de la mise en place d'un cycle de conférences mensuelles  axées sur les domaines de compétence de l'Unesco.
14.23 Monsieur le Président, le gouvernement rwandais attache une haute  importance au rôle que doit jouer la femme rwandaise dans le développement du  pays. Aussi ma délégation appuie-t-elle les actions proposées dans le Projet de  programme et de budget qui sont récapitulées dans le grand programme XIV (La  condition des femmes) et qui visent à assurer la pleine participation des femes  à la vie politique, économique, sociale et culturelle.
1'  ri  .24 Quant aux grands programmes XII et XIII, ils continuent de représenter  idéal des sentiments et des attitudes qui devraient, à notre époque, caracté-  .ser les relations entre les hommes comme entre les nations. Notre monde reste  encore malheureusement caractérisé par des conflits meurtriers, par l'intolé-  rance, le racisme et l'apartheid. I1 suffira de rappeler que depuis le début de  cette année la communauté internationale assiste avec autant d'indignation que de  réprobation à une répression de plus en plus barbare exercée contre la majorité  noire en Afrique du Sud.
14.25 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais, pour conclure mon propos, revenir  sur ce que d'aucuns appellent la crise de l'Unesco. Notre Organisation, come  toute oeuvre humaine est, certes, perfectible. L'Unesco est devenue depuis  quarante ans le cadre d'une coopération internationale fondée sur le respect  mutuel des Etats et des identités culturelles. J'affirme que l'humanité ne  saurait se passer de l'Unesco sans hypothéquer lourdement son propre avenir. Je  me joins donc aux orateurs qui m ont précédé pour inviter les Etats-Unis  d'Amérique à reconsidérer leur décision de se retirer de l'Unesco afin de pré-  server le principe d'universalité de notre Organisation. Je forme en outre le  voeu que la présente session de la Conférence générale, qualifiée à juste titre  d'une des plus délicates de toute l'histoire de l'Unesco, soit celle du renou-  veau, de la concorde et de l'espoir en un avenir meilleur pour l'ensemble de  l'humanité. Je vous remercie.
(15) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Minister Plenipotentiary and Head of the Delegation of Portugal, to take the floor.  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Rwanda and now invite Mr Jorge Ritto,
16.1 M. RITTO (Portugal) :  (Discours prononcé en portugais, traduction française fournie par la  délégation)  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Messieurs les  déléguGs, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi avant tout de féliciter M. Todorov  de son élection à la présidence de cette conférence, élection qui nous assure de  la bonne conduite des travaux marquée par la compétence et une sympathie que nous  avons déjà pu apprécier. J'aimerais également saisir cette occasion pour remer-  cier les autorités de la République populaire de Bulgarie et le peuple bulgare  tout entier de l'accueil exceptionnel qui nous a été réservé dans ce pays ca-  ractérisé par la richesse de son histoire et par la beauté de ses paysages.
16.2 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais tout d'abord, à cette tribune,  souligner l'importance exceptionnelle que revêt la vingt-troisième session de la  Conférence Fénérale pour l'avenir de l'Organisation. Depuis qu'il est redevenu  membre de 1 Unesco en 1974, mon pays a manifesté à plusieurs reprises l'intérêt  qu'il portait aux activités de l'organisation, à laquelle il est profondément  attaché. C'est dans cet esprit que nous avons ressenti le besoin de réformes  profondes dans le mode de fonctionnement de l'organisation, dans sa gestion  administrative, dans la préparation de ses programmes, etc.
16.3 Nous avons donc fait part au Directeur général de notre préoccupation en  ce qui concerne certains points bien précis, notamment la nécessité de concentrer  le programme, de rationaliser la gestion, d'accroître la décentralisation des  opérations, d' établir un équilibre plus harmonieux entre les dépenses adminis-  tratives et les dépenses au titre des activités opérationnelles, la nécessité  enfin d'éviter des projets controversés. I1 est bien évident, Monsieur le Pré-  sident, que nos observations ne participent d'aucun négativisme, mais sont tout  au contraire inspirées par le respect et l'intérêt que l'Unesco suscite au  Portugal ainsi que par l'estime et le prestige dont y jouit son Directeur  général.
16.4 Nous avons été très préoccupés, Monsieur le Président, par le retrait  des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, qui jouent un rôle si important sur la scène mondiale,  ainsi que l'a bien décrit le Président sortant de la Conférence générale, M.  Said Tell. Le retrait des Etats-Unis a privé l'organisation non seulement d'une  contribution financière importante, mais aussi d'un riche apport culturel ; il a  en outre mis en danger l'universalité qui doit caractériser les institutions du  système des Nations Unies. Espérons que les réformes en cours pourront conduire  les Etats-Unis à reconsidérer la décision qu'ils ont prise et, pour ceux des  Etats membres qui remettent en question leur participation à l'Unesco, à repenser  leur position.
16.5 C'est dans ce contexte et avec une grande satisfaction que nous avons  pris connaissance des efforts mérïtoires qui ont été accomplis, tant par le  Secrétariat que par le Conseil exécutif, en vue de la mise en oeuvre d'impor-  tantes réformes de fond qui nous acheminent sans aucun doute vers une solution  des problèmes. La présentation et la qualité de la majorité des programes  inscrits au Projet de programme et de budget pour le prochain exercice biennal  sont la preuve d'un progrès notable. La création d'une Unité centrale d'evalua-  tion au sein du Secrétariat et la publication des premiers documents d'analyse de  l'exécution des programmes en cours nous paraissent également constituer autant  d'éléments très positifs.
16.6 Le travail du Conseil exécutif qui a permis l'accord intervenu à propos  du document 23 C/6 est, à notre sens, digne des plus grands éloges. I1 est  indéniable que cet accord facilitera grandement les travaux de la Conférence  générale, car il constitue une base fondamentale qui, grâce à un certain nombre  d'ajustement9 toujours négociables au cours d'une conférence, pourra rendre  possible la solution d'un grand nombre des difficultés que nous avons mentionnées  précédemment.
16.7 I1 nous semble également de première importance que soit bientôt créé un  mécanisme institutionnel qui permettra, entre les sessions du Conseil exécutif et  en liaison avec le Directeur général, de donner suite aux projets de réforme en  cours. Nous espérons donc que la vingt-troisième session pourra consolider les  réformes prévues et en cours, renforçant du même élan le prestige et l'action  universelle de l'organisation.
16.8 Permettez-moi maintenant, Monsieur le Président, de présenter quelques  réflexions sur certains élëments du Programme pour le prochain exercice biennal.  Le grand programme I est la preuve que l'Unesco demeure un organe de réflexion  sur les problèmes mondiaux, ce qui nous semble, malgré l'urgence des actions à  mener en faveur des pays en développement, non seulement indispensable, mais dans  la ligne des intentions originelles des fondateurs. I1 serait souhaitable tou-  tefois, dans l'intérêt même d'une acceptation aussi universelle que possible, que  les programmes prévus soient mis en oeuvre sans qu'une influence idéologique en  détourne la valeur.
16.9 Nous pensons que le grand programme II est de la plus grande importance  pour le développement global et cohérent des programmes du secteur de l'éduca-  tion. Nous sommes toutefois préoccupés par la dispersion des actions qui, malgré  les efforts déployés, continue à caractériser cette partie du Programe. C'est la  raison pour laquelle nous suggérons un nouvel effort de concentration des acti-  vités de l'Organisation sous la forme de projets concrets, précis et bien pré-  parés, adaptés directement aux besoins des Etats membres, en particulier des pays  moins développés.
16.10 Dans le grand programme IV, je voudrais souligner l'importance que nous  attribuons aux projets de réflexion et à l'étude de problemes éducatifs, notam-  ment à la formulation des politiques d'éducation dans les Etats membres. Nous  estimons qu' il est absolument essentiel que l'Unesco établisse un meilleur  équilibre entre ces projets et l'ensemble des activités et projets concrets  consacrés au développement et à la promotion des conditions sociales et cultu-  relles des populations des pays membres, en particulier les moins développés  d'entre eux.
16.11 Dans le grand programme V, les priorités accordées au domaine de la  science et de la technologie aussi bien qu'à l'enseignement supérieur méritent  notre plus grande attention et notre appui. Les processus de modernisation et  d'innovation que connaissent les pays industrialisés tout comme la création des  conditions et la mobilisation des moyens propres à favoriser le développement des  pays les moins avancés appellent dans chaque cas des efforts de promotion  scientifique et technologique et une action prioritaire en faveur de l'utili-  sation des ressources humaines, grâce à une formation qualifiée à tous les  niveaux, mais avant tout à celui de l'enseignement supérieur.
16.12 En ce qui concerne le grand programme III, il faut poursuivre les  efforts entrepris en valorisant l'apprentissage et la. formation du personnel,  ainsi que l'appui technique, tout en mettant en lumière l'importance du PIDC pour  les pays en développement.
16.13 Le grand programme XI constitue l'un des domaines d'action de l'Unesco  où l'effort d'évaluation des résultats obtenus nous paraît des plus importants,  car c'est un élément indispensable à la préparation de projets futurs dans la  limite des ressources disponibles. I1 ne serait sans doute pas opportun, par  ailleurs, de lancer de grandes campagnes de protection du patrimoine. Mais nous  gardons présente à l'esprit l'importance que revêt ce secteur pour la sensibi-  lisation des populations à la sauvegarde des valeurs du patrimoine dans certains  domaines, action qui requiert d'ailleurs des moyens beaucoup plus modestes.
16.14 Nous savons que le grand programme XII1 soulève des difficultés qui,  nous l'espérons, trouveront leur solution au cours de la présente session. Je  souhaiterais seulement suggérer, d'une part, que les études sur les questions de  désarmement ne fassent pas double emploi avec les activités d'autres institutions  des Nations Unies et revêtent surtout le caractère d'échanges d'information entre  institutions dans le cadre des domaines de compétence de 1 Unesco ; d'autre part,  que la recherche de la paix, à laquelle tous les peuples aspirent légitimement et  dont on parle tant, se fasse davantage par la pratique, l'élaboration et la mise  en application de programmes raisonnables et efficaces dans le domaine de
22  l'éducation, de l'alphabétisation, du développement des études scientifiques et  de la communication, de la circulation des biens culturels, plutôt qu'à l'aide de  congrès et de séminaires qui soulèvent de fréquentes interrogations. En tout état  de cause, je veux à nouveau affirmer que pour mon gouvernement, la paix véri-  table, comme d'ailleurs le développement, n'ont aucun sens ni contenu sans le  respect des droits fondamentaux de l'homme, des droits civiques, politiques et  économiques, tels qu'ils sont énoncés dans les textes des Nations Unies.
16.15 Je ne voudrais pas terminer, Monsieur le Président, sans réaffirmer ici  la fidélité de mon pays à l'idéal de coopération multilatérale qui a présidé à la  création du système des Nations Unies et en particulier, à celle de 1 Unesco. Mon  pays, ouvert au dialogue et à la fréquentation de peuples très divers par leur  identité géographique et culturelle, continue à croire fermement que la voie  multilatérale constitue l'un des meilleurs moyens de développer la compréhension  et la solidarité internationales et aussi un motif d'espérer que l'on parviendra  à prévenir ou à résoudre les énormes problèmes de tous ordres qui menacent  l'humanité. C'est dans cet esprit que nous formons le voeu que, grâce au ren-  forcement des programmes et aux réformes déjà commencées ainsi qu'à la préémi-  nence de la négociation sur la confrontation, la vingt-troisième session de la  Conférence gbnérale sera pour l'Unesco le signe d'un changement dans le sens  d'une réalisation efficace de ses objectifs, lui permettant ainsi de retrouver  l'indispensable prestige et la totale adhésion de la communauté internationale.
(17) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Portugal and now invite Mr Francisco  Benante, Secretary-General of the National Commission for Unesco and Head of the  Delegation of Guinea-Bissau, to take the floor.
18.1 M. BENANTE (Guinée-Bissau) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président  du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Messieurs les ministres et  chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs, il y a quarante ans, au lendemain de  la seconde guerre mondiale, encore sous les cendres brûlantes, les grands  esprits, préoccupés par 1 ' avenir de 1 ' humanité et prenant conscience que "les  guerres prenant naissance dans l'esprit des homes, c'est dans l'esprit des  hommes que doivent être élevées les défenses de la paix", décidèrent la création  de l'organisation des Nations Unies pour l'éducation, la science et la culture  (Unesco).
18.2 Monsieur le Président, avant de poursuivre mon allocution et, comme ceux  qui m'ont précédé à cette tribune, je me fais le devoir de féliciter M. Todorov  pour son élection à la présidence de notre Conférence. Cet acte de reconnaissance  n'est rien d'autre que le témoignage de confiance que lui ont manifesté les  représentants des Etats membres. En outre, c'est là l'hommage évident rendu à son  dévouement à la cause de la paix entre tous les peuples et à une vie riche  d'exemples frappants de son courage da-ns ce dessein. Sous sa haute autorité, les  travaux de notre Conférence seront, j'en suis convaincu, couronnés de succès.
18.3 Je félicite également le Directeur général, S. Exc. M. Amadou-Mahtar  M'Bow qui, par ses qualités exceptionnelles, son courage et ses attaques sans  répit contre les actes d'injustice dont souffrent les hommes à travers le monde,  s'est distingué parmi les plus éminentes personnalités qui luttent pour le  bien-être et la paix de ceux qui souffrent. Je vous assure de la confiance et de  l'appui sans réserve de mon gouvernement et vous fais part de l'accueil favorable  que l'analyse de la problématique mondiale que vous avez présentée dans le  document 23 C/5, "Projet de programme et de budget pour 1986-1987", reccontre  auprès des autorités de mon pays. Cette analyse reflète la situation concrète de  notre monde actuel et trace les grandes lignes d'action qui sont conformes aux  aspirations profondes et légitimes des peuples épris de paix.
18.4 Au nom de mon peuple, de mon gouvernement et de la délégation que je  conduis, je tiens à exprimer nos préoccupations constantes face à la conjoncture  économique internationale et aux conflits armés qui font régner dans tous les  peuples la peur et la méfiance. Les foyers de tension se multiplient et la course  aux armements s'intensifie au détriment de la paix et de la conscience morale.  Alors que Léon Blum, qui dirigeait la délégation française à la Conférence  constitutive à Londres, disait que l'Unesco a pour vocation d'être la "conscience  morale et intellectuelle de 1 'humanité", nous constatons que cette "conscience  morale et intellectuelle de l'humanité'' est souvent violée. I1 est temps que  l'home consacre sa conscience à la recherche d'une solution véritable en vue
799    d'éteindre les foyers de tension et de freiner, une fois pour toutes, cette  course aveugle aux armements. I1 est temps que chaque homme comprenne que nous  sommes tous prisonniers de nos réalisations et que nous risquons de nous jeter  dans l'abîme. La reformulation logique des rapports entre tous les peuples dans  le respect, la justice, l'égalité et l'application du principe de la coexistence  pacifique doit être notre préoccupation d'aujourd'hui, car elle est la seule voie  de la paix.
18.5 Nous renouvelons nos protestations contre le système d' apartheid  d'Afrique du Sud qui plonge d'autres peuples dans une situation inhumaine et  demandons aux grandes puissances qui appuient ce système rétrograde sud-africain  de faire pression sur le gouvernement de Prétoria afin d'instaurer la démocratie  dans ce pays et de libérer Nelson Mandela. Le maintien d'un tel système, comme la  détention de Nelson Mandela, n'est pas la meilleure façon d'aboutir à la réso-  lution des contradictions douloureuses en Afrique du Sud, même pour les déten-  teurs actuels du pouvoir dans ce pays. L'apartheid a déjà causé la perte de  beaucoup de vie innocentes. I1 faut en finir avec ce complexe négatif qu'est le  racisme.
18.6 Nous avons, à maintes reprises, condamné l'attitude de Prétoria pour son  comportement face aux Etats de la ligne de front, pour ses attaques incessantes,  particulièrement contre 1'Etat indépendant et souverain de la République popu-  laire d'Angola.
18.7 Chose curieuse, ce régime arriéré tente de lier l'indépendance de la  Namibie à la présence des troupes cubaines en Angola. Ce qui est encore pius  poignant, plus épouvantable encore, c'est l'écho que ce mensonge inventé par la  propagande du régime raciste trouve dans quelques pays qui se proclament défen-  seurs des libertés fondamentales, des droits individuels et des peuples opprimés.  Le racisme et le régime en vigueur en Afrique du Sud doivent être bannis à  jamais.
18.8 C o m e  je l'ai dit au début de mon intervention, on constate, avec  inquiétude, que la situation internationale connaît une aggravation sérieuse.  Pour mettre fin au danger d'une catastrophe plus grave encore pour toute l'hu-  manité, il faut mettre un terme à la course aux armements, prévenir la guerre  nucléaire et renforcer les moyens de la lutte pour la paix - par l'application  de politiques de coopération et de compréhension entre les peuples. La réalisa-  tion de ces objectifs par la voie pacifique, par le dialogue franc dans les  domaines de compétence de l'Unesco, ouvrirait de nouvelles perspectives d'élar-  gissement des activités de notre Organisation. C'est pour,cela que nous appuyons  toute solution visent ia participation plus active de l'Unesco à la recherche  intellectuelle de solutions aux problèmes majeurs de l'humanité.
18.9 Monsieur le Président, mon pays lutte pour la consolidation de la  détente dans toutes les régions du globe, l'élimination des vestiges du colo-  nialisme, contre le néocolonialisme, le racisme et l'apartheid, pour le réta-  blissement des relations économiques internationales sur des bases démocratiques  et justes, pour l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre international de la communica-  tion et de l'information. La situation économique internationale actuelle est  grave ; elle va en se dégradant et crée de terribles problèmes aux pays en  développement. Dans les pays les moins avances du mcrde, en KSph?-iaue de  Guinée-Bissau par exemple, l'économie se trouve dans un tel marasme que la marche  du peuple vers le progrès et le bien-être s'en trouve entravée. Le Camarade  Président du Conseil d'Etat Joao Bernardo Vieira, dans son rapport à la deuxième  réunion du Comité central du PAIGC, disait : "Notre pays traverse en ce moment  une des situations économiques de son histoire les plus difficiles depuis la  libération nationale. Sans vouloir oublier ou minimiser l'héritage colonial,  hautement n6gatif du point de vue économique, financier et de la production, il  est un fait que notre économie souffre des effets désastreux de la crise écono-  mique mondiale, de la détérioration des termes de l'échange et de l'augmentation  constante des prix du pétrole, bref, de la conjoncture internationale mondiale".
18.10 Mon pays est convaincu que le Projet de programme et de budget pour
1986-1987 sera la concrétisation de la deuxième tranche du Plan à moyen terme  pour 1984-1989, des grands axes politiques de la problématique globale de la paix  dans les activités de l'Unesco. Notre organisation doit maintenir son orientation  et continuer d'oeuvrer à l'intensification de la coopération internationale dans  les domaines de sa compétence, car c'est un avantage pour tous, dans le respect  de i'égalité en droits de toutes les nations. Le changement de comportement comme  d'attitude des h o m e s  dependent, bien sûr, de plusieurs facteurs mais il dépend  surtout de leur éducation. Les domaines d'action de l'Unesco constituent l'unique  voie qui lui permet de faire entendre davantage son autorité comme Organisation  intergouvernementale prestigieuse qui touche la conscience des hommes.
18.11 Aussi ne cesserons-nous jamais, partout où l'occasion nous en est  présentée, de dénoncer les injustices tant que leurs auteurs persisteront 2 en  commettre.
18.12 Je suis síir que cette vingt-troisième session de la Conférence générale  donnera une impulsion rénovatrice, visant à faire triompher les idéaux de paix et  de compréhension entre les peuples, qui sont chers à l'Unesco. Je suis également  sur que l'élargissement de la coopération interafricaine, de la coopération  Sud-Sud et de la coopération Nord-Sud au sein de l'Unesco contribuera à renforcer  la sécurité africaine et le respect mutuel entre pays en développement et entre  les pauvres et les riches.
18.13 Monsieur le Président, notre modeste contribution à ce débat sera de  lancer un appel aux hommes de science, d'éducation et de culture de tous les  pays, et aux organisations internationales, afin que, en collaboration avec  l'Unesco, ils élèvent leur voix en faveur de la paix universelle, de l'amitié et  de la coopération entre les peuples et contre les menaces d'une catastrophe  nucléaire.
18.14 Comme il a été souvent dit : "La paix ne signifie pas uniquement  l'absence de guerre". C'est pour cela, Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le  Directeur général, que notre Assemblée doit soutenir avec force que toute  occupation étrangère est une source de conflit armé. L'occupation dont certains  peuples sont victimes constitue en soi une atteinte très grave aux principes  fondamentaux proclamés par la cornmumuté internationale et les actes du régime de  Prétoria consistant à destabiliser les Etats voisins indépendants, ainsi que  l'occupation illégale de la Namibie, violent à l'évidence les droits les plus  &lementaires de l'hcmne et des peuples.
18.15 Aujourd'hui, bien des accusations sont portées contre l'Unesco. Certes,  il a pu y être commis des erreurs car l'Unesco est une Organisation construite  par des hommes, lesquels ne sont pas parfaits. Par ailleurs, ce qui me semble  être aussi à l'origine des plaintes contre l'Unesco est le fait que, lors de la  création de notre Organisation, les plaies de la deuxième guerre mondiale étaient  encore saignantes et que ses fondateurs n'avaient pas cru possible que d'autres  peuples s'arrogent le droit de dicter à d'autres le mode de vie et la voie de  développement à suivre comme c'est le cas aujourd'hui. Comme le disait le Di-  recteur général en réponse aux questions de journalistes , "Ceux qui regrettent  aujourd'hui ce qu'ils appellent la politisation, la règle automatique, la mau-  vaise gestion et la censure de la presse, ne la regrettent que parce que d'autres  points de vue que les leurs s'y expriment".
18.16 La crise de l'Unesco ! De quelle crise s'agit-il ? Nous croyons qu'il  n'y a pas de crise sans précédent comme on veut le donner à penser, quand cer-  tains organes de presse parlent de la survie même de l'Unesco. La situation de  l'Unesco à l'heure actuelle n'est pas la pire depuis sa création. Si elle paraît  fatale aux yeux de certains, cela est dû à mon avis à deux raisons : le retrait  d'un Etat membre, accompagné du dépôt d'un préavis de retrait par deux autres  Etats membres et la conjoncture internationale.
18.17 L'Unesco est une institution consacrée à la pensée et à l'étude appro-  fondie des problèmes des peuples et elle s'est assignée comme objectif la paix  par l'éducation, la science et la culture. I1 est normal qu'il existe en son sein  différents courants d'opinion.
18.18 Les tâches qui nous incombent aujourd'hui sont de trouver, par la voie  du dialogue dans l'unité, une solution. Nous tous ici réunis devons avoir le  courage de dire la vérité tout en reconnaissant nos faiblesses d'êtres humains.  En tant qu'individu, je pense que personne ne veut voir disparaître l'Unesco.  C'est pour cela que nous lançons un appel sincère 2 1'Etat qui s'est retiré pour  qu'il revienne parmi nous afin que tous ensemble, avec les deux autres Etats qui  ont déposé un préavis de retrait, nous cherchions à trouver un consensus.
18.19 En CE- qul concerne les droits de l'homme et les droits des peuples,  Monsieur le Président , je suis surpris de constater que certaines d8clzrations  nient l'existence des droits des peuples. Les droits de l'homme et les droits des  peuples dans et par leur interdépendance ne se recouvrent pas. Aucun individu  issu d'un peuple ne peut prétendre avoir quelque droit que ce soit en tant  qu'individu si, auparavant, le peuple auquel il appartient n'a pas la jouissance  de ses droits.
18.20 I1 y a treize ans, je n'avais pas droit à ma nationalité d'origine tout  simplement parce que mon peuple était soumis à un autre. Aujourd'hui, Nelson -  Mandela n'a pas le droit de dire non à l'apartheid parce que son peuple Noir est  encore soumis par le peuple Blanc de l'Afrique du Sud.
18.21 Monsieur le Président, le refus de reconnaître les droits des peuples me  semble être la séquelle du fait que l'on a refus5 à plusieurs peuples le droit de  se gouverner eux-mêmes. L'origine de beaucoup de nos contradictions, Monsieur le  Président, est la peur d'autrui qui nous habite, nous hante comme un fantôme,  nous empêche souvent de dire la vérité et engendre en nous une attitude de  méfiance irraisonnée. L'Unesco est la seule organisation qui peut éclairer notre  chemin.
18.22 Voilà pourquoi - j'y insiste - quelles que soient nos contradictions,  nous devons les dépasser afin de préserver l'universalité de notre Organisation.  L'Unesco reste et doit rester la conscience intellectuelle et morale de  l'humanité.
18.23 En ce qui concerne le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1986-1987,  présentant les grands programmes par unité administrative comme celui de 1984-
1985, je ne peux que féliciter ceux qui, directement ou indirectement, ont  participé à I élaboration de ce document 23 C/5. Comme le document 22 C/5, le  Projet de programme et de budget pour 1986-1987 a été établi sur la base du Plan  à moyen terme pour 1984-1989, approuvé par la Conférence générale à sa quatrième  session extraordinaire, par consensus.
18.24 Nous constatons que le cadre conceptuel que constitue le plan a été  complété par des éléments d'orientation du choix des activités proposées. En  outre, une ample consultation a été menée par le Secrétariat auprès des Etats  membres, des Membres associés et des organisations internationales gouverne-  mentales et non gouvernementales en vue de recueillir leurs opinions sur la  diminution ou l'élévation du niveau des activités, sur la concentration par  regroupement éventuel de certaines activités ainsi que sur les formes et les  modalités d'action propres à assurer l'exécution la plus efficace du programme.
18.25 Par ailleurs, le document 23 C/5 comporte, par rapport au 22 C/5, de  nombreuses innovations par son souci de concentration, de clarté, d'identifi-  cation des prioritSs comme dans ia pr6seiiLahw; des activités. La diminution du  nombre des sous-programmes représente une nette amélioration d'autant qu'elle est  le résultat d'une réflexion approfondie sur la façon la plus opératoire de  traduire, en termes de programme, les orientations conceptuelles définies dans le  Plan à moyen terme, de manière à refléter pleinement les priorités indiquées par  les Etats membres dans leurs réponses à la consultation et par le Conseil exé-  cutif dans sa ciécision 120 EXl4.1.
18.26 Une attention toute particulière a été donde aux priorités, B la  concentration diz programme, aux modalités de son exécution, à l'amélioration de  la gestion du personnel et de son recrutement, à la restructuration du Secréta-  riat, à la décentralisation, à l'évaluation et à la présentation du Projet de  programme et de budget en vue d'améliorer au maximum l'efficacité et la trans-  parence dans la mise en oeuvre des activités du programme.
18.27 S'agissant des quatorze grands programmes et compte tenu du temps qui  m'est imparti, je me bornerai à quelques réflexions rapides sur certaines parties  du document 23 C/5, particulièrement les grands programes I, II, III, V, XI,  XII, XII1 et XIV. Mon pays ne ménage aucun effort pour une meilleure adéquation  entre l'éducation et le monde du travail et pour une meilleure formation des  jeunes aux tâches qu'ils sont appelés à remplir au sein de la société. Dans tous  les pays et, particulièrement, dans les pays en développement, les jeunes cons-  tituent la force la plus active qui doit mériter notre plus grande attention. Les  documents présentés reflètent, dans leur ensemble, les préoccupations de nos  Etats et singulièrement des pays en développement.
18.28 Je remercie le Conseil exécutif d'avoir recommand& 2 la Conférence  gérCruit de considérer la langue portugaise comme langue officielle de notre  Organisation. J'espère que notre Conférence l'approuvera en vue de permettre à  l'Unesco d'embrasser et de connaître en profondeur d'autres civilisations et  d'autres cultures. Je voudrais rappeler les recommandations au sujet de la langue  portugaise, adoptées à l'unanimité à l'issue des travaux de la Conférence mon-  diale sur les politiques culturelles tenue à Mexico en 1982, et demander de  promouvoir les études tendant à l'introduction du portugais comme langue de  travail de notre Organisation.
18.29 Je ne saurais terminer mon intervention sans remercier une fois de plus  S. Exc. M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, Directeur général de l'Unesco, le Conseil  intergouvernementai du ?rugramme interi~a~ioi~al peur le développement de la  communication (PIDC), le gouvernement de la République fédërale d'Allemagne et le  gouvernement de la République fédérative socialiste de Yougoslavie, de l'aide  importante accordée à notre pays dans le domaine de la communication. Je remercie  et encourage la PANA qui fournit également une assistance à notre pays.
18.30 J'appuie aussi les activités du Bureau régional d'éducaeion pour  l'Afrique et de son Réseau d'innovation éducative pour le développement de  l'Afrique (NEIDA), et souhaite voir de nouvelles allocations de fonds attribuées  à ces institutions régionales très importantes pour le continent africain.
18.31 Pour conclure, je voudrais exprimer mes vifs remerciements aux autorités  bulgares pour l'hospitalité et l'amitié fraternelles dont notre délégation et  moi-même somes l'objet depuis notre arrivée dans cette belle ville de Sofia.
18.32 Je souhaite voir se renforcer la coopération entre l'Unesco, les Etats  membres ici présents, les Membres associés, les organisations internationales et  la République de Guinée-Bissau, afin que notre pays puisse faire face au défi de  la reconstruction nationale. Je demande en outre à tous ceux qui sont ici pré-  sents, d'user de leurs compétences dans un esprit de tolérance et de compré-  hension afin de construire des bases solides pour instaurer la paix internatio-  nale entïe toutes les nations.
18.33 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, désarmons les consciences pour  édifier la paix. I1 est inutile de parler du désarmement matériel sans auparavant  désarmer notre propre pensée. Je vous remercie.
(19) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Guinea-Bissau and now invite Mr José  Nestor Mourelo Aguilar, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, Permanent  Delegate to Unesco and Head of the Delegation of Costa Rica, to take the floor.
(20.1) Mr MOURELO AGUILAR (Costa Rica) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, Costa Rica has decided to answer the call to attend the twenty-  third session of the General Conference of Unesco in this frugal but pleasant capital  city. In spite of our country's economic difficulties, we have made the effort to come  to Sofia to make our modest contribution, with the clear intention of helping to solve  the serious problems facing Unesco. The very destiny of this Organization, an organiz-  ation with such noble ideals, is at stake. If we really wish to save it, let us  immediately lay aside all petty interests and devious intentions and silence the  voices raised in obfuscating and blinding hate. The withdrawal of the United States  and the notice of withdrawal given by the United Kingdom have undermined the Organiz-  ation's universality. If this grave decision has resulted in steps being taken to  correct mistakes, let us continue along that path and try to get the angry giant to  return to the fold and the other one to stay. On the question of whether United States  staff members should be kept on at Unesco, Costa Rica considers that any discussion of  the matter here diverts the attention of delegations from the essential to the  accessory and is inappropriate and unseemly because it gives one the nasty feeling  that we are setting up a system of persecution and retaliation.
(20.2) Let us ensure that this gathering is remembered by everyone, and especially  by the children of the world, for its noble and generous action. I think it was the  great German poet Heinrich Heine who said that the Romans used to send out their  legions to conquer territorles and then their jurisconsults to legalize their plunder.  Let us not use the services of Unesco's enlightened jurists to lay the legal basis for  the victimization of United States staff members. Let us sow the seed of concord and  show the world that Unesco can be a homeland for all, that truth, goodness, beauty,  freedom and justice exist and that hope is deeply rooted in our words and in our  actions.
(20.3) Mr President, the speaker addressing you belongs to a people which, since its  independence from Spain in 1821, has achieved certain important advances of which it  is proud. Costa Rica introduced compulsory public primary education in 1869, abolished  the death penalty in 1882, introduced coeducation in secondary schools in 1907,  granted full civil rights to women in 1948 and in that same year, after a bloody civil  war, abolished the army, a measure enshrined in Article 12 of the current Constitution  promulgated on 7 November 1949, which states: 'The army as a permament institution is  proscribed. For control and the maintenance of public order, there will be the necess-  ary police forces. Only through continental agreement or for the national defence may  military forces be organized; in either case they shall always be subordinate to the  civil power; they may not deliberate, nor make manifestations or declarations in indi-  vidual or collective form'. The originator of this momentous initiative is still  alive. His name is Jose Figueres. He was President of Costa Rica three times and  Commander-in-Chief of the victorious armed forces in 1948.
(20.4) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Costa Rica, whatever its defects may be,  is a living symbol of what is little more than an aspiration for Unesco: the estab-  lishment of peace. The following quotation is from the Chinese philosopher Lao Tse,  who said 2,486 years ago:
8 07    'The army is the source of misfortune but not of virtue. When the army has to  be used out of necessity, that use should be on a very limited scale, because  even at times of glory and triumph its influence is disastrous. Those who  admire military force are people who accept crime, and anyone who accepts the  principle of crime is beneath human morals'.
(20.5) Mr President, distinguished delegates, you know that Central America is on a  war footing. In that sad and tragic part of the world, Costa Rica has raised the  banner of peace. Its President, Luis Alberto Monge, put it as follows:  'Costa Rica is against war. We Costa Ricans are against violence as a way of  settling political differences. The ancients believed that war was the ultima  ratio of politics, but we Costa Ricans consider war as the ultimate irration-  ality, the collapse of politics. Contemporary events in Central America  strengthen us in that conviction. It is absolutely imperative at the present  time to pursue a policy of peace. All foreign policies and security policies  must serve that ideal. A policy of peace is the one and only true policy of  our era'.
(20.6) Owing to the civil strife that is sapping the strength of our neighbour  countries, there is a very severe refugee problem, and Costa Rica cannot and should  not close its borders to those fleeing from the scourge of war. Don Hugo Alfonso  Munoz, our country's Minister of Justice, summed up the painful situation as follows:  'The Government of Costa Rica has taken clear-cut and decisive steps to solve  the dramatic refugee problem that has aroused the humanitarian feelings of  the people. Our efforts and our people's generosity have been acknowledged by  the international organizations. True to the noble tradition of asylum, the  President of the Republic categorically affirmed before the United Nations  High Commissioner for Refugees on his visit to Europe his "firm and un-  shakable determination, as representative of the government, to respect and  reinforce the right to asylum proclaimed in the Constitution and the relevant  international conventions, and the sacred right of refugees f1eeir.g from per-  secution, violence and systematic violations of human rights to receive a  generous welcome and legal protection in Costa Rica so that they can live  under conditions of human dignity"'.
(20.7) Costa Rica has set up a new kind of institution, the 'Defender of the Human  Rights of Refugees', attached to the Ministry of Justice, thereby playing a pioneering  role in that respect. Costa Rican law has also established an office of human rights  procurator. There are chairs of human rights and of intern.etiona1 humanitarian law in  the universities.
(20.8) Mr President, distinguished delegates, at this twenty-third session of the  General Conference of Unesco, Costa Rica supports the Yugoslav proposal to celebrate  the centenary of Esperanto as a universal language. Together with Cuba, Costa Rica has  submitted a draft resolution condemning the Government of South Africa for its policy  of apartheid. It read as follows:  'Considering firstly - That the various resolutions of the United Nations -  UN - in particular the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,  approved by the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1966, which con-  demns in its Article 20 any propaganda for war, any advocacy of national,  racial or religious hatred as well as any incitement to discrimination, hos-  tility or violence, Article 4 of the International Convention on the Elimin-  ation of all Forms of Racial Discrimination, approved by the General Assembly  of the United Nations in 1965, and the International Convention on the  Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid, approved by the General  Assembly of the United Nations in 1973, which stipulate that the States  parties to those Conventions pledge themselves to adopt immediately positive  measures to eliminate any propaganda for such discrimination or any act of  discrimination and have decided to prevent the crime of apartheid and any  other similar political segregation from being encouraged in any way  whatsoever,  Considering secondly - That resolution 9.12 approved in 1968 by the General  Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organ-  ization, Unesco, reaffirms the Organization's objective of contributing to  the elimination of colonialism and racism; resolution 4.301, approved in 1970  by the General Conference of Unesco, concerning the contribution of the mass  information medie to strengthening international ... understanding and co-  operation in the interest of peace and the welfare of mankind, and to the  struggle against propaganda for war, racism, apartheid and hatred among  peoples, and conscious of the fundamental role that the mass information  media can play in those areas; resolution 12.1, approved by the General Con-  ference of Unesco in 1976, which declares that colonialism, neo-colonialism
22  and racialism in all its forms and manifestations are incompatible with the  fundamental aims of Unesco; and the Unesco Declaration on Race and Racial  Prejudice, adopted unanimously by acclamation by the General Conference at  its twentieth session in Paris on 27 November 1978,  Considering thirdly - That the region of apartheid is iniquitous; its prac-  tice by the Government of South Africa inflicts torture and death on the  largely black population, to whom any authentic education or superior culture  is denied as is the possibility of freely seeking after objective truth and  the unhindered exchange of ideas and knowledge,  Considering fourthly - That Nelson Mandela, that persistent and unselfish  exemplar of rebellion against apartheid, has been in prison for 20 years for  valiantly combating the unjust regime of apartheid, demanding justice, pro-  moting human rights and the rights of peoples and defending freedom and  democracy, to whom for his valiant action, Unesco conferred together with  King Juan Carlos I of Spain, the International SimÓn Bolivar Prize on 14 June
1983,  Consequently has agreed:
2. to supporr the vigorous efforts of concerted international and national  action against the opprobrious system of apartheid, preferably those  efforts that fall within Unesco's competence, as. stipulated in the  resolutions approved by the Executive Board and the General Conference;  to condemn the Government of South Africa for its regime of apartheid;
3. to appeal to the Government of South Africa to abandon apartheid, dis-  mantle the Bantustans, put an end to the repression to which the black  majority and the opponents of apartheid are subjected and to seek a  peaceful, just and lasting solution in accordance with the principles  set out in the Charter of the United Nations, the United Nations Univer-  sal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and  Political Rights approved by the General Assembly of the United Nations  in 1966, the Constitution of Unesco and the various international  declarations, proclamations and charters on human rights;
4. to insist on the immediate and unconditional release of the black  leader, Nelson Mandela;
5. to recognize rebellion against apartheid and racism as a basic human  right ' .
(20.9) If anyone is alarmed by operative paragraph 5, I would refer them to the  biblice1 story of the Maccabees who, I believe, applied the following principle in  word and deed: the first duty of obedience to God is rebellion against the tyrant.
(20.10) Mr President, in you and through me Costa Rica pays its respects to Cyril and  Methodius, Ivan Vazov and Christo Botev, in other words to the Cyrils and Methodiuses,  Vazovs and Botevs flowing in the blood and implanted in the minds of the people of  this austere and hospitable country. I am going to hand to you a book published in  Costa Rica on 24 Bulgarian poets, the 1984 Report of the Ministry of Justice of Costa  Rica and the first four volumes of the records of the First World Congress on Human  Rights held in Costa Rica in the town of Alajuela from 6 to 12 December 1982 with the  participation of an entire people and the leading and most dedicated human rights  organizations from all over the world. The Congress adopted the Alajuela Charter, an  important document that I wish to read out for you here today:  'The First World Congress on Human Rights, held in the 200-year old city of  Alajuela in Costa Rica from 6 to 12 December 1982, has demonstrated the  importance that a whole people attributes to the duties and rights of the  human person. It has also shown how it is possible rationally to deliberate,  study and discuss human rights problems in an atmosphere of unrestricted  liberty.
809    It therefore considers, recommends and agrees as follows:  That in view of the Costa Rican democratic institutional system of  liberty, justice and the absence of an army, it is deemed appropriate  that Costa Rica become a World Centre for Study, Research, Defence and  Dissemination of Human Rights, for which purpose it is necessary to  establish an intercontinental network to provide quick and accurate  information about human rights experiences and problems throughout the  world.
15.  That the international community should recognize and guarantee to Costa  Rica a Status of Perpetual Neutrality, in recognition of its being the  sole country which has opted unilaterally for peace, by deciding upon  the abolition of the army as a permanent institution 33 years ago.  That support should be given to the proposal made by Sean McBride, Nobel  Peace Prize-Winner, and by Ben Whitaker to the effect that the United  Nations should establish as soon as possible its own world radio and  television inforInation service on human rights.  That the above-mentioned project should at least establish its Ibsro-  American service in Costa Rica.  That Costa Rica should intensify its campaign in the United Nations for  a High Commission for Human Rights.  That educational systems throughout the world should be based on the  study and practice, as a subject, of human rights.  That an international human rights commission should be established.  That an international penal court of human rights should be created.  That a political regime of public liberties, social security with  economic guarantees, ideological pluralism and possible periodic alter-  nation of political power through free and genuine elections, consti-  tutes the best known guarantee for the full exercise of human rights in  the world.  That war-oriented industries, particularly war-oriented nuclear,  bacteriological and chemical industries, represent a constant threat to  all forms of life and constitute en immoral affront to human dignity. To  indict and combat them wherever they exist is a fundamental right and  duty of free men.  That rebellion against any military, tyrannical, despotic or dictatorial  regime is a fundamental human right and duty; as such, it should be  recognized, guaranteed and widely disseminated by the international  community.  That the death penalty is a practice which, whether sanctioned by law or  not, is an outrage to the higher human right to life, and should there-  fore be abolished.  That the judicial practice of physical or mental torture constitutes a  flagrant violation of human rights. All free men are duty bound to  denounce and combat this sadistic and abominable practice, and to make  every effort to have the United Nations Convention against Torture and  the Optional Protocol thereto adopted.  That political regimes based on discriminatory social, religious,  political, linguistic, or economic concepts and practices against  national minorities on grounds of sex or other grounds constitute a  historical aberration and an inadmissible affront to the universal con-  sciousness of human dignity. Individuals and peoples who love liberty,  democracy and justice have the right and the supreme obligation to  denounce and combat such regimes.  That it is of fundamental importance to arouse the consciousness of  individuals, peoples and nations with respect to human rights, and to  that effect it is considered of the greatest importance to hold a second  World Congress on Human Righta which would have the benefit of the  experience of the first one and whose place and date shall be determined  after consultation and deliberation with all the participants in this  Congress.
22  Done at Alajuela, this twelfth day of December 1982.'
(20.11) One year after this Charter, the presidential proclamation concerning the  perpetual and active neutrality of Costa Rica without an army was issued. Mr Presi-  dent, fellow delegates, Costa ñica has declared peace on the world, let us all see to  it that this Conference radiates greatness. Mr President, fellow delegates, let us see  to it that Sofia is the saviour of Unesco and not its grave-digger. Thank you very  much.
(21) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Costa Rica. I shall transmit the publi-  cations that he has placed at the disposal of the presidency to those for whom they  are intended, and I invite Mrs Cerna R. Logavatu, Head of the Delegation of Fiji, to  take the floor.
22.1 Mrs LOGAVATU (Fiji) :  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, I realize that it has been a long day for all of us, and I shall try  to demonstrate my government's commitment to co-operation by being very brief.  Let me first of all congratulate the President, Mr Todorov, on.his well-deserved  election to his important and demanding office. I am confident that Unesco will  benefit from the experience and expertise of his leadership.
22.2 I should also like to express our very warm thanks and appreciation to  the Government of Bulgaria and her people for having hosted this Conference, and  for the hospitality extended to delegations from all over the world.
22.3 I offer the Director-General and his staff our thanks for the thorough  preparations which have been made for this Conference, and particularly the  financial aid which has enabled small developing countries like mine to attend  this Conference.
22.4 Mr President, in joining Unesco two years ago the Government of Fiji  assured you and the Organization of its willingness to participate fully in the  various areas of human co-operation which must unite us in our attempt to better  the conditions of all the peoples of the world. On this occasion of our second  participation at the General Conference I would like to reiterate that assurance.
22.5 The Government of Fiji wishes to acknowledge with appreciation the  recognition by Unesco of the needs and the voice of its smaller Member States of  the South Pacific in establishing the Unesco Office for Education and Culture for  the South Pacific in Apia, Western Samoa, in September 1984. We are confident  that Unesco will continue to fulfil its obligations not only to the larger and  developed nations but also to its smaller and developing member nations. This  Subregional Office in Apia together with other regional institutions in the South  Pacific will no doubt form a cohesive network in developing regional programmes  for the improvement and enrichment of conditions in our South Pacific islands.
22.6. One of the manifold objectives of Unesco is the preservation and enrich-  ment of the diverse cultures of the world. My own country, I believe, is the  richer by the presence of a multiracial, multireligious and multilingual com-  munity. We are happy to sal7 that in our efforts to promote this multiracial and  multicultural identity the financial contribution by Unesco was significant in  enabling us to participate in the South Pacific Festival of Arts held in Tahiti  this year.
22.7 Mr President, turning now to the Draft Programmes and Budget of the next  biennium, the various programmes put before this Conference have our support. My  delegation attaches great importance to the activities proposed under Major Pro-  gramme II, which is particularly important for small and developing countries. We  fully endorse the special emphasis on the promotion of the right to education of  particular groups which have special problems, and are fully in favour of the  efforts which Unesco through its programmes proposes to rectify anomalies which  exist relating to them.
22.8 While literacy as such does not constitute a problem in my country, we  have nevertheless other problems relating to that disparity in the performance  rates of our various ethnic groups. There has been a significant achievement by  our government in the increase of our primary school enrolment from 91 per cent  in 1971 to 98 per cent in 1983. Our teacher pupil ratio is 1:28 in primary
811    schools, and 1:18 in secondary schools. Of our total population of 670,000, 25  per cent are attending school. In order to encourage and promote its policy of  education for all, the government introduced in 1973 a tuition-free education  scheme beginning from class 1. It is my government's intention in its next devel-  opment plan to make schooling accessible to all students for the first 12 contin-  uous years. Special measures are being introduced now which are designed to  control and reduce the drop-out rate from the formal school system. In these  measures we will be looking to Unesco for assistance in our remedial programmes.
22.9 Mr President, I have noted with special satisfaction the emphasis placed  on Major Programme IV, in particular Subprogramme IV.2.2, under the proposed  action on language teaching. We fully endorse the efforts made in the Latin  America and Caribbean and in the African regions for the teaching of mother  tongues. In Fiji, the Fijian language has become the language of the minority  group. Our government has tried to promote the teaching of the Fijian language  through a number of projects, in particular the Fijian Dictionary Project. A lot  still remains to be done in this regard, and we will again be seeking Unesco's  assistance in order to ensure that the mother tongue of the Fijian people is  given due recognition.
22.10 On financial matters, Fiji welcomes the efforts by the Director-General  to strengthen and consolidate programme activities in response to the wishes of  Member States. We strongly support further decentralization to the region as we  believe that the Regional and Subregional Offices are in an excellent position to  effectively deal with grass-roots activities in Member States. On representation  at the Executive Board, we note with satisfaction the efforts made to represent  the voice of the South Pacific in the membership of the Executive Board.
22.11 In conclusion, Mr President, my delegation looks forward to a construc-  tive spirit prevailing at this General Conference, and we join other Member  States in our efforts to achieve the ideals and objectives that Unesco stands  for. Thank you.  (Mr Indelicato, Italy, took the Chair)
23. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the Fiji delegation and I give the floor to Mr Abdul  Wasa Alwan, General Secretary of the National Commission and head of the  delegation of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen.
(24.1) Mr ALWAN (Democratic Yemen) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, dis-  tingufshed delegates, it is a pleasure and an honour for me to begin my remarks by  offering my most heartfelt congratulations to Mr Nikolaï Todorov on his election as  President of the General Conference and on his success in winning the trust needed to  occupy that lofty office. We are confident that under his guidance our Conference will  achieve the positive results for which we all hope, and that Mr Todorov will steer the  proceedings towards a peaceful haven. I wish to thank the Director-General, my friend  Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, and the Chairman of the Executive Board and his assistants and  to congratulate them on their efficiency in preparing the important documents for this  Conference and on the reforms they have introduced in the running of the Organization  and the rationalization of its resources along the lines that had been recommended. 1  should also like to commend the excellent facilities that have been provided for the  twenty-third session of the General Conference and the warm reception and generous  hospital.ity of the friendly people of Bulgaria in this beautiful city of Sofia.
(24.2) Mr President, this twenty-third session of the General Conference of our  ' stalwart Organization, Unesco, marks a historic turning-point in the life of the  Organization and coincides with its fortieth anniversary, an occasion which we hope  will lead, with our help, to a strengthening of Unesco's role. My country, the  People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, attaches the greatest importance to Unesco's  activities and highly appreciates and esteems its efforts to promote greater under-  standing, co-operation and friendly relations among all the peoples of the world.
(24.3) Mr President, distinguished delegates, my country is devoted to peace and is  concerned for its preservation at a time when peace and human freedom are held in low  esteem. In spite of its small size and limited resources and capabilities, my country  seeks to use its modest potential for the advancement of peace. But it is essential to  strive to bring about peace on a real and practical level rather than using it as a  mere means to an end or as a high-sounding slogan intended to dupe the peoples of the  world. Peace must provide an effective basis for the safeguarding of human rights and  human dignity, the dignity that is violated in the continents of Asia, Africa and  Latin America by those who batten on the lifeblood of those nations. Peace cannot be  built on the falsification of history, bloodshed, displays of strength, the imposition  of hegemony, the violation of human dignity and the encouragement of aggression  against the peoples of the developing countries. Daily events in the Arab occupied  territories, the domination of Jerusalem and the obliteration of its characteristic  features by Israel in defiance of United Nations and Unesco resolutions, in particular  those concerning the human cultural heritage and its preservation and the safeguarding  of the specific identity of the Palestinian people - all of this provides evidence of  Israel's relentless policy of aggression. Yesterday the entire world heard the news of  its savage, brutal and barbarous attack on Tunisia, which claimed hundreds of innocent  women, old people and children as its victims and provided conclusive evidence of  Israel's continued aggressive intentions and its determination to sabotage all peace  initiatives. My country, Mr President, strongly condemns these Israeli attacks and  stands by the peace initiatives of the Soviet Union and the socialist bloc and the  United Nations resolutions concerning the Palestinian issue.
(24.4) Mr President, document 23 C/5 which has been submitted to this Conference, is  our main focus of interest and the corner-stone of our wide-ranging discussions,  greatly enriched as they will be by the pertinent and valuable views of this distin-  guished assembly of personalities from the world of education, culture and science. We  hope that the positive results of this Conference will give fresh impetus to our  Organization, strengthening its role and increasing its determination to execute the  humane and noble mission assigned to it under its Constitution, which makes humankind,  peace and freedom its central concerns. It gives me great satisfaction, Mr President,  to find that the activities contained in document 23 C/5 and the reports of the  Director-General are in perfect accord with my country's plans and programmes and its  aspirations in the fields of education, science, culture and information. It is there-  fore with a keen sense of hope and great appreciation that we shall follow Unesco's  efforts to implement these activities in the 1986-1987 biennium in the framework of  the second Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989.
(24.5) We in Democratic Yemen may perhaps justifiably take pride in the positive  results of our nationwide campaign to eradicate illiteracy and eliminate all traces of  it from our population, a campaign that we carried out through our own efforts, draw-  ing on the latent resources of our people, with the assistance of Unesco, the Arab  organization ALECSO and a number of regional and international organizations, and  through bilateral co-operation with other fraternal and friendly nations.
(24.6) I should also mention that our nationwide campaign to eradicate illiteracy  coincided with Unesco's generous efforts on behalf of the city of Shibam and Wadi  Hadramaut, the visit by the Director-General of this Organization to those sites and  the launching of the international appeal for the safeguarding of that part of our  historical heritage. We hope that the appeal will continue to yield positive results.
(24.7) It is also incumbent upon me to express our appreciation for the efforts that  have been and are still being made on our behalf by Unesco's Regional Offices for Edu-  cation in the Arab States, including EIPDAS and UNEDBAS, especially their support for  our educational and training programmes designed to lay the foundations for continuing  adult education for workers, with particular emphasis on the roles to be assumed by  young people and women. Education in my country is free, and we have thus succeeded in  making it democratic. We are energetically striving to universalize primary education,  to eliminate the remaining pockets of illiteracy and to develop lifelong education. We  are also engaged at present in a major effort to expand secondary, university and  specialized education.
(24.8) Mr President,' in accordance with the principle of decentralization and in  pursuance of Unesco's plans in that connection, my country wishes to participate in  the Organization's regional activities in the Arab region, along the lines set out  under item 8.7 of the provisional agenda and in the documents that have been published  by Unesco from time to time. We are also striving to ensure that scientists, young  people and women, in our country and in other developing countries, assume their  proper role in participation and training for development, equal rights, peace and  international detente. In the framework of geographical representation, my country  hopes to take part in the specialized commissions and committees set up by Unesco so  as to play its modest role in those fields. My country reiterates its concern for the  implementation of past decisions relating to communication and a fair and balanced  flow of information in accordance with the Organization's plans and guidelines. In  this connection, it is important to stress the need to give young national cadres in  the developing countries the right to education and training in these fields, in other  branches of technical and vocational education and communication, in cultural activi-  ties and in science and technology with a view to achieving the aims and implementing  the programmes of economic and social development.
(24.9) Mr President, humankind beseeches all people of conscience to devote them-  selves unswervingly to the task of laying the foundations of peace and safeguarding  human rights. We reaffirm our growing and boundless commitment to the universality of  our generous Organization, Unesco, inasmuch as that will enhance its role in prevent-  ing the devastation of war, strengthening the foundations of international peace and  detente and understanding among peoples, eliminating racism, apartheid, and old and  new forms of colonialism, and establishing a just international economic order under  which the rich will not grow richer while the poor grow poorer. In our view, that is  the object of the draft resolutions submitted to this Conference by the socialist  countries. In conclusion, we hope that humankind and this planet of ours will be able  to enjoy peace, security and stability and avoid the dangers of a nuclear war that  would spare nobody and leave nothing. Thank you.
25. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Democratic Yemen, and I invite  Mr Etienne Konkobo, Secretary-General of the National Commission of Burkina Faso  for Unesco, to take the floor.
26.1 M. KONKOBO (Burkina Faso) :  Monsieur le Président, au moment où m'échoit l'honneur de prendre la  parole, je voudrais joindre ma voix à toutes celles des délégués qui m'ont  pr&cédé, afin de présenter mes félicitations à M. Todorov, pour sa brillante  élection à la pr6sidence de la vingt-troisième session de la Conférence généra.le  de notre grande Organisation.
26.2 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, je ne saurais  exprimer devant la Conférence generale le point de vue de mon pays sans saluer  d'abord Sofia et ses citoyens et à travers vous, Messieurs les délégués, les  peuples que vous êtes venus représenter.
26.3 Le gouvernement de mon pays a suivi avec préoccupation le problème du  retrait des Etats-Unis d'Amérique de l'Unesco. Cette décision est de nature à  porter un grand préjudice au principe d'unhersalité de notre Organisation.
26.4 La politique d'hostilité et d'agression que mènent les Etats-Unis  d'Amérique contre les institutions spécialisees de l'ONU, notamment l'Unesco,  l'Association internationale de développement et la CNUCED vise à soumettre la  communauté internationale au seul diktat américain.
26.5 Pour le peuple burkinabé et son gouvernement révolutionnaire, l'ONU et  ses institutions ne sauraient être l'instrument d'un seul Etat quelle que soit sa  puissance. Nous regrettons profondément qu'à l'heure où la solidarité inter-  nationale devrait se manifester de manière plus tangible pour la consolidation de  la paix et de la compréhension mutuelle entre les peuples et pour la coopération  sur la base de l'égalitg des Etats, certains membres de la communauté inter-  nationale tentent d'aller à l'encontre de cette solidarité.
26.6 Nous invitons les Etats-Unis d'Amérique à reprendre leur place à  l'Unesco dans l'intérêt du peuple américain. Le peuple américain a besoin des  autres peuples et l'Unesco est le forum le plus universellement indiqué pour les  rencontres et les échanges.
26.7 Nous invitons en outre à plus d'honnêteté morale ceux qui, prétextant la  mauvaise gestion de l'Unesco et sa forte politisation, s'en sont retirés ou  menacent de le faire. Est-il besoin de leur rappeler les résultats de l'enquête  menee par le Contrôleur général des Etats-Unis (l'un des pays accusateurs I )  ?  Parlant de l'Unesco, il disait : "nous considérons son mode de gestion comme  unique et en avance sur celui des autres institutions du systSrne des Nations  Unies.. . et comme offrant la possibilité d'accroître l'efficacité de la parti-  cipation des Etats-Unis à l'Unesco''.
26.8 Quant à l'accusation de politisation, permettez-moi, Monsieur le Pré-  sident, Messieurs les délégués, de vous rappeler que dans la volonté des fon-  dateurs de l'Unesco, cet esprit était le fondement de l'organisation. Celle-ci a  été créée pour établir la paix sur la base de solidarité intellectuelle et morale  de l'humanité. L'éducation, la science, ia culture, l'information et la commu-  nication perttciperit Úu gouvernement des societés , c'est-à-dire au sens propre,  de leur politique,
26.9 L'Unesco est politique. N'etes-vous pas, Messieurs les délégués, les  représentants de vos gouvernements ? Et n'exprimez-vous pas les positions et les  préoccupations de vos Etats ? L'Unesco n'est pas plus politisée que lors de sa  création. Elle est simplement d'essence politique et en son sein se développent  de façon plus tangible la lutte des classes et les conflits d'intérêts. La  politisation est un phénomène qui n'est ni nouveau ni étranger à l'Unesco. Elle  l'accornpagne,depuis sa cr6ation. Cette politisation est objective et nécessaire,  car elle exprime la volonté des Etats de dSinir en commun les orientations du  développement de l'Organisation.
26.10 Monsieur le Président, mon pays est convaincu du rôle de tout premier  plan que le développement de l'éducation, de la science, de la culture, de
1 ' information et de la communication peut jouer dans l'élargissement et la  consolidation des bases de la paix et de la compréhension internationale. Si nous  approuvons totalement le Projet de programme et budget pour 1986-1987, nous  voudrions cependant insister sur l'intérêt et l'importance que nous attachons  particulih-ement à certains programmes. Nous pensons notamment aux grands pro-  grames XI et XII.
26.11 Voyons d'abord le grand programme XI : La culture et l'avenir. Le  Directeur général de l'Unesco déclarait à Assouan, en Egypte : ''La société  contemporaine accentue les ruptures structurelles entre aujourd'hui et hier. Une  certaine notion du progrès tend même à nier certaines valeurs humaines fonda-  mentales, et à séparer la culture de l'existence matérielle des hommes, réduisant  notamment les ouvrages du passé à des curiosités dissociées de la réalité quo-  tidienne. C'est en éprouvant cette déchirure que les peuples ont comencS à  mesurer le besoin réel qu'ils ont de leur patrimoine ... et à ressentir les  atteinres qui lui sont portées comme une perte de leur propre substance. C'est  ainsi que s'est affirmée peu à peu l'exigence d'une identité culturelle jusque-la  vécue comme allant de soi, mais désormais ressentie comme une conquête menacée  qu'il faut parfois lutter pour défendre, sauvegarder et enri.chir".
26.12 Cette longue citation traduit entièrement le sentiment du gouvernement  du Burkina Faso face au problème culturel. Mon pays apporte son soutien aux  activités menées en faveur de la connaissance des cultures et de la promotion des  identités culturelles et parmi celles-ci, à la poursuite de la révision de  l'Histoire du développement culturel de l'humanité, aux différentes histoires  régionales ainsi qu'aux études et recherches historiques sur les cultures.
26.13 Eu égard à cela, le Burkina Faso recommande à la Conférence générale  d'adopter une résolution en vue de la création d'un Institut des peuples noirs.
22  Cet institut sera un cadre de rencontres et d'échanges institutionnalisé pour  tous les peuples noirs d'Afrique et de la diaspora à travers le monde. fl offrira  des structures de recherche scientifique, artistique et culturelle, de protection  et de promotion de toutes les inventions du génie des peuple noirs. Ne faisant  concurrence à aucune autre activité voisine, sans aucun caractère raciste, il  contribuera de manière plus tangible, plus consciente et plus active à l'édifi-  cation du patrimoine culturel de l'humanité. A ce titre, l'institut des peuples  noirs restera ouvert aux échanges avec les autres peuples. De ces rencontres  naîtra à coup sûr une meilleure compréhension entre des modes de vie et des  civilisations apparemment fort différents. Certains crimes contre l'humanité  auraient pu être évités si les hommes, rapprochant leurs cultures, avaient su  découvrir à temps qu'elles s'égalaient et qu'il n'y avait pas lieu de se mépriser  mutuellement.
26.14 Monsieur le Président, un tel projet est digne de retenir l'attention de  la Coii26rence générale. Et pour sa réalisation, l'Unesco est la seule organisa-  tion capable d'entreprendre le travail de recherche. L'objectif premier de ce  projet étant de rendre à l'homme noir sa dignité et à l'humanité ce que les  clivages sociaux lui volent.
26.15 J'en viens maintenant au grand programme XII : Elimination des préjugés,  de l'intolérance, du racisme et de l'apartheid. Nous félicitons l'Unesco pour  l'importance qu'elle accorde à ce grand programme et notamment au volet "lutte  contre l'apartheid''. La g6neralisation de l'étude des sciences sociales et  humaines, de la philosophie .et de l'histoire, le soutien aux centres qui mènent  des recherches sur l'Afrique du Su¿ ou ia Namibie, la coopSration avec l'Orga-  nisation des Nations Unies par 1 ' intermédiaire du Comité spécial contre 1 ' apar-  theid et au Conseil pour la Namibie, constituent assurément de bons instruments  de lutte contre le fléau du racisme. L'Unesco par ces actions se fait heureuse-  ment garante de la promotion des principes démocratiques de dignité, d'égalité et  de respect mutuel entre les hommes.
26.16 Cependant, Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les délégués, devant la  situation des Noirs d'Afrique du Sud, on ne pourra plus longtemps se contenter  de soutiens qui soient uniquement de principe. L'un des plus grands crimes est en  train de se commettre contre vingt-quatre millions d'hommes en Afrique du Sud ;  vingt-quatre millions de Noirs sont victimes d'un cynisme indicible, l'apartheid.  C'est un défi lancé contre la conscience de l'humanité. Messager du peuple  burkinabé, je voudrais profiter de cette tribune pour rappeler que les Noirs  d'Afrique du Sud ont pris conscience de la nécessité de payer de leur sang le  prix de leur liberté. En témoignent les récents événements dans ce pays : dur-  cissement du pouvoir de Pieter Botha, resserrement des rangs des militants anti-  apartheid, atmosphère de guerre civile. Ces événéments dénotent à coup sûr le  début du compte à rebours pour le systsne raciste et son inexorable faillite.
26.17 Et si les victimes imnédiates de ce système, rudimentairement armées,  optent pour le face à face avec les redoutables forces sud-africaines, si elles  ont décidé de vendre leurs vies pour répondre au défi lancé contre notre cons-  cience, pionniers avertis, elles tracent de ce fait la voie à suivre, l'action à  entreprendre. Elles nous invitent à nous départir de nos lâchetés, à prendre  davantage nos responsabilités par rapport 2.11~ mesures visant à mettre radica-  lement fin & l ' apartheid.
26.18 Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les délégués, les Noirs d'Afrique du  Sud en décidant de faire face au pouvoir ignominieux de leur pays, ont lancé la  balle dans le camp des autres peuples. Au-delà des possibilités offertes par le  grand programme XII, chaque nation a encore beaucoup à faire, face à la question  sud-africaine. C'est l'occasion de saluer ici tous les peuples qui, partout, se  sont solidarisés avec les exploités d'Afrique du Sud, en forçant leurs gouver-  nements à prendre des sanctions contre le pouvoir de Prétoria.
26.19 Cependant, à tous ceux qui attendent, nous disons que le temps n'est  plus à la tergiversation, à la lâcheté et moins encore à la traîtrise. Vingt-  quatre millions d'hommes sont en péril sur leur propre terre et leur salut  appelle de notre part des actions franches, rapides et massives.
26.20 Tel est, Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les délégués, notre message,  nos objectifs, qui sont, comme vous le constatez, conformes à tous points de vue  au programme de l'Unesco. Leur ampleur ne diminue en rien leur légitimité. Nos  préoccupations sont celles de toute l'Afrique, de l'Asie, de l'Amérique latine.  Les solutions résident dans la mise en commun de nos possibilités nationales et  dans la solidarité internationale.
26.21 Monsieur le Président, le monde entier attend beaucoup de nos travaux.  Puisse la présente session de la Conférence générale répondre à l'espérance des
817    nations et enregistrer de plus grands progrès dans la définition des responsa-  bilités de la communauté mondiale. Puisse l'Unesco demeurer toujours une soli-  darité concrète et, comme disait l'un de ses Directeurs généraux, "une fraternité  entière, mais singulièrement penchée sur la condition des déshérités de l'his-  toire et de,la géographie". Je vous remercie Monsieur le Président.
26.22 La Patrie ou la Mort, Nous Vaincrons !
27. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Secretary-General of the National Commission of Burkina  Faso, and I invite Professor Gencho Piryov of the World Association for Edu-  cational Research to take the floor.
28.1 Mr PIRYOV (World Association for Educational Research):  Mr President, distinguished delegates, as the representative of one of  the scientific non-governmental Organizations, the World Association for Edu-  cational Research, I would like to express our greetings and wishes for the  fruitful work of the Conference and also to share with this very significant  international forum some considerations concerning the role of this and other  similar associations in the many-sided and noble work of Unesco.
28.2 It is well known that associations like ours contribute by their various  activities not only to the development of their respective sciences, but also to  the cause of international understanding and co-operation to all the significant  goals of Unesco. This contribution is especially valuable because it is due not  to any official obligations but to the personal sense of responsibility and con-  sciousness of the members of these organizations. The contributions of these  associations, particularly to the cause of the world peace, is specially signif-  icant, because they create various opportunities for scientists to get to know  each other, to understand one another's problems and views, and to co-operate in  solving national and international problems in a spirit of tolerance and mutual  co-operation.
28.3 Indeed, there are various international organizations, some of them  directly working for the cause of peace, others indirectly contributing to it.  But I think all of them have the possibility of contributing to the realization  of the programmes of Unesco that are presented for discussion at this General  Conference. It is clear that the comprehensive projects carried out under these  programmes appeal to practically all the branches of the natural, mathematical,  social and humanitarian sciences. On behalf of our Association for the edu-  cational sciences, I may declare that all 14 programmes are well presented and  deserve the active support of our Association, which is 'concerned with the com-  plex educational and psychological problems that are so relevant to these pro-  grammes. In support of this, may I present some facts from the activities of our  Association. Mention may be made firstly of the international congresses. During
1982 the eighth such congress took place in Helsinki on the general theme 'Edu-  cation-society-personality', and during 1985 the ninth congress took place in  Madrid, where the problems of the interrelations between education, respective  instruction and labour were the main subject of discussion. Also, in connection  with the theme of International Youth Year, I had the opportunity to present a  paper on one of the ideas associated with this theme - the problem of educating  youth for participation in life.
28.4 Another example of the contribution made by international scientific  associations is the work of the International Union of Scientific Psychology. For  instance, among many problems related to fundamental aspects of psychology, at  the 23rd international congress of this union held in Acapulco, Mexico, in 1984  we had two symposia and thematic sessions on the psychological problems of peace,  and a document on the responsibilities of psychologists from all countries for  the cause of international understanding and. peaceful life was accepted by the  general assembly of this union and a committee was formed to work along these  lines. The same international union takes an active part in some other aspects of  Unesco's activities, such as the 'Macinder' movement dealing with the problems of  man-computer relations, or Unesco's long-term programme to promote the establish-  ment of an international network of child research centres - in which I have also  taken part. Three international conferences sponsored by the Secretariat of  Unesco took place during 1981 and 1982, mainly on the problems of the impact of  different socio-cultural conditions on child development. During the last week of  September this year, the Bulgarian psychological society - a member of this  union - hosted the 7th conference of psychologists from the Danubian countries  with participation of psychologists from other countries, where a symposium and  workshops on the problems of peace and peace education was likewise organized.  Eminent psychologists took part in these meetings and a plan for further work  along these lines was elaborated.
28.5 But we know that there are a number of international non-go-ernmental  organizations that are working directly for the realization of Unesco's pro-  grammes. Concentrating only on those working for international peace, mention may  be made of one of them with which I am personally associated and actually am  asked to be its representative also. This is the International Association of  Educators for World Peace, which also has status in the system of Unesco. It is  composed of members from all countries and its council includes a president from  Bangkok, a vice-president from the United States of America, and a secretary-  general from Romania. We already had three international congresses - in India,  in Romania and in the United States, and several regional conferences in Africa,  Asia and Europe. Our journal 'Peace Progress', published in Thailand, contains  papers on all aspects of the problems of international relations and mutual  understanding.
28.6 In addition to these forms of activities of the international organiz-  ations, Mr President, and dear colleagues, I would like to underline another  aspect of their contribution to Unesco's programmes, related to the most essen-  tial characteristics of this Organization - its universality. In addition to the  participation of practically all States of the globe, this universality is  achieved also by the participation of a great number of governmental and non-  governmental organizations representing all fields of human knowledge and  activity. We see that even if a State due to some kind of shortsightedness with-  draws from Unesco, its non-governmental Organizations continue to participate,  and in this way they promote to a certain extent the universality of this  Organization.
28.7 Speaking about the universality of Unesco, may 1 in conclusion share my  impressions of the visit to the publication exhibition in the central building of  our university. I was strongly impressed not only by the splendid organization of  this exhibition, but mostly by its wide and comprehensive content. Presenting  books and periodicals on problems and achievements from all fields of the  sciences and arts, this exhibition reveals in a very concrete way its universal  nature - not so much by the fact that it displays publications concerning the  problems of all countries and continents, especially those more or less neglected  in the past, but by the impressive fact that here, in one hall, is demonstrated  the significant role of Unesco in emphasizing and grasping all essential problems  of the spiritual life of all nations, their contributions to the universal  culture of mankind. This exhibition, as well as all sessions of the General Con-  ference, reveal the great significance of this unique international organization.  Thank you for your attention.
29. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of the World Association for Educational  Research, and I now invite Mr Tibor Sekelj, representative of the Universal  Esperanto Association, to take the floor.
30.1 Mr SEKELJ (Universal Esperanto Association):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive  Board, Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentleman, I want firstly to  congratulate through you, Mr President, the President of the General Conference  on his election to the important and responsible task of leading the twenty-third  session of the General Conference of Unesco. The Universal Esperanto Association  is confident, along with the preceeding speakers, that his able and wise guidance  will contribute to the positive development and successful conclusion of this  Unesco session at this crucial time in the Organization's existence.
30.2 May I express the hope that the many substantial achievements that stand  to Unesco's credit during its forty years of endeavour will weigh in its favour  and that the Organization will maintain its confidence in a better future and  continue with renewed strength to tackle the many problems that await solution in  the fields of education, science, culture and communication. I assure you, Mr  President, that my organization will spare no effort to continue making its con-  tribution - however modest in volume - in accordance with its possibilites, to  the success of Unesco and the accomplishment of its noble aims. We fully believe  in its irreplaceable role in this restless and ever-changing world.
30.3 The Universal Esperanto Association has been in consultative relation-  ship with Unesco since 1954. During these three decades, we have had many oppor-  tunities to co-operate in different ways with this Organization. The over one  hundred periodicals published in the international language of Esperanto and the
15 radio stations which broadcast in it, providing information for the
8-10 million speakers of Esperanto throughout the world, follow systematically  all the major projects of Unesco, and many basic publications of this Organiz-  ation have been published and widely distributed among the speakers of Esperanto.
819    Moreover, several of the major projects of Unesco have been adopted by the Uni-  versal Esperanto Association as a way of full co-operation. When the major proj-  ect for the mutual appreciation of Eastern and Western cultures was launched, the  Esperanto world organization adhered to it and published in Esperanto translation  a series of masterpieces from authors of the five continents. The year of the  disabled was widely publicized, an international association for Esperanto-  speaking disabled has been founded and a specialized periodical has been started.  International Youth Year and the United Nations Decade for Women was launched  simultaneously with Unesco, to mention only a few examples.
30.4 All this is only the direct and visible contribution to the aims and  projects of Unesco; but our indirect contribution to its aims is far greater.  Because - to quote the words of the Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow -  Esperanto is not only a language: it is a humanistic movement with the aim of  promoting peace and mutual understanding among peoples and cultures.
30.5 Mr President, the Esperanto movement celebrates the centenary of its  existence in 1987. There are organizations and individuals who adhere to its  ideals in over a hundred countries, and all of them take part in vigorous cul-  tural exchanges, breaking down national and racial bounderies, not so much  preaching but rather practising worldwide international tolerance, co-operation  and brotherhood. Around 200 international meetings are held every year, at which  Esperanto is the only working language. Their range is extremely wide, including  scientific symposia on cybernetics, computers, data processing and medicine, con-  ferences of writers, artists and teachers, youth and children's meetings, festi-  vals of theatre, puppetry and poetry, and meetings of nature-lovers, vegetarians,  or simply of families of mixed marriages where Esperanto is spoken as natural  family language, and culminating in an annual conference of two to five thousand  delegates, held every year in a different region - last year in Vancouver,  Canada, this year in Augsburg, Federal Republic of Germany, and next year in  Peking, People's Republic of China. This transcultural exchange of experience, of  friendship and of mutual appreciation is a practical support to the general aims  of Unesco, which are not very different from some projects supported by the  international cultural community, as they constitute a great reserve, a non-  negligible potential for the future. And when I say this, Mr President, I mean  among other things the future of the 3,600 intergovernmental and non-governmental  international meetings held every year, including here the conferences of Unesco.
30.6 This intergovernmental orgmization operates now with six working  languages, discriminating between big and small nations: some can speak in their  mother tongue, while others, having all the material, political and. often his-  torical and cultural disadvantages, have to add yet another - the linguistic dis-  advantage. Of course, this situation cannot persist for a long time. We kr.ow that  a seventh language, Portuguese, is on the threshold. It is not difficult to fore-  see that another European language and one African language, spoken in four and  three countries respectively, will soon make their appearance, followed by one  Asian language with a great material and cultural potential. As language is not  only a means of communication but also a matter of prestige and national pride  and advantage, the chaos is bound to increase, causing an overwhelming expendi-  ture on translations, printing and interpretation, leaving less and less  resources for the accomplishment of the programmes. And then, maybe, the exist-  ence of a language created to be used in international contacts will be remem-  bered. I think of Esperanto.
30.7 This international language, created by the Polish doctor Zamenhof and  published in 1887, has the advantage of being politically and culturally neutral,  not belonging to any of the political powers. It is culturally harmless, not  imposing foreign cultures upon the small ethnic groups, leaving the cultural  identity of every human group untouched. It can be used by everybody as a tool of  international understanding, breaking down linguistic barriers, just like the  telephone and the aeroplane overcome distances. The 30,000 different books  printed in Esperanto - half of them translations, half originally written in  Esperanto - as well as the many other means of communication I have mentioned,  including a vigorous flow of correspondence, have shown the efficiency of the  language to serve all needs of human communication. Its simple and regular gram-  mar without exceptions, and its vocabulary taken from international usage and  from many national languages from all continents, make this language easy to  learn: it takes one-third of the time necessary to learn any other language. The  regular stress on the last-but-one syllable, as in Spanish and Italian, makes it  a pleasant-sounding, musical language.
30.8 I should like to end by conveying to the President of the General Con-  ference the following message: Mr President, I wish this august Conference every  success in resolving its many problems under your able and careful guidance. Or,  as we would say in Esperanto: Sinjoro Prezidanto, mi deziras al tiu 'ci elstara  konferenco plenan sukceson en la solvado de giaj multaj problemoj, sub via  kapabla kaj zorgema gvidado. dankon. Thank you.
31. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of the Universal Esperanto Association, and I  now invite Mr Kaarle Nordenstreng, the President of the International Organiz-  ation of Journalists, to take the floor.
32.1 Mr NORDENSTRENG (International Organization of Journalists):  Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I am speak-  ing in the name of a non-governmental organization which brings together some
200,000 working journalists from 120 countries in all continents. It is the  largest and oldest of the NGOs operating in the field of journalism and mass com-  munication. Like the United Nations and Unesco, the International Organization of  Journalists was founded as a post-war forum for peaceful co-operation.
32.2 In the present juncture of history, which marks the fortieth anniversary  of several major events as well pointed out by the Director-General in his open-  ing address, we all should get back to the Constitution of Unesco - its words  about the minds of men, about the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind,  and about the deployment of the means of communication between peoples for the  purposes of mutual understanding and a truer and more perfect knowledge of each  others' lives. Today, 40 years after, when we have not only one or two bombs but  tens of thousands of them - with a threat of the arms race being extended to  space - Unesco and its Constitution are more vital than ever. Indeed, as the dis-  tinguished Minister of the United Kingdom said from this rostrum, the Consti-  tution has stood the test of,time and must inspire the work of this Conference.
32.3 What, then, do the professional journalists, inspired by the Unesco  ideals of peace and truth, want to say on this occasion?
32.4 First, with regard to the destabilization campaign directed against  Unesco, and through Unesco against the whole multilateral system of the United  Nations, we regret and deplore the role of many mass media in disseminating false  and distorted reports about Unesco, its Director-General and its activities.  Several scientific studies have documented this biased reporting, which is a  textbook example of how journalism can be transformed into an instrument of power  politics. Matters have gone so far even that sanctions have been directed against  institutions and individuals who have attempted to discover and analyse objec-  tively the press coverage on Unesco. Nevertheless, it is being more and more  widely realized that in several countries the picture given to the public by the  mass media amounts to what has come to be called a 'big lie'. Unfortunately, many  journalists have been involved in this colossal fabrication of truth. However, it  is important to note that the majority of the world's journalists are not behind  the campaign but are rather standing in support of Unesco.
32.5 Secondly, professional journalists are pleased to testify that Unesco  has not by any means infringed the autonomy of the profession, for example by  imposing upon us a mentality of government servitude or a straightforward code of  conduct. We do not know of any Unesco resolution or programme which would suggest  something like that. Our experience of co-operation with Unesco shows rather the  contrary, namely that in some cases when the profession itself, through the  international and regional organizations of working journalists, has suggested  moving forward in matters such as the protection of journalists, Unesco has not  been responsive enough - obviously because it hac been paralysed by the blackmail  of the destabilization campaign.
32.6 Thirdly, professional journalists want to draw the attention of this  Conference to a particular outcome of co-operation between the international and  regional organizations of working journalists which, incidentally, together  represent as many as 400,000 professionals in this field; that is, an absolute  majority of the organized profession of journalism. The document in question is  entitled International Principles of Professional Ethics in Journalism. It was  issued two years ago as an independent contribution of the profession of journal-  ists to the implementation of the Mass Media Declaration of Unesco and to the  establishment of a new international information and communication order. This  was the first time that journalists have prepared for themselves a universal set  of professional principles. The ten principles were prepared as an international  common ground and as a source of inspiration for national and regional codes of  ethics. Thus it is not an international code of conduct but a set of universal  principles to be promoted autonomously by each professional organization through  ways and means most adequate to its members.
32.7 Without going into the details of this document which will be made  available to all delegations, let me just point out that the first of its ten  principles is entitled 'People's right to true information' and that this  traditional basic value of journalism is accompanied among others by the follow-
821    ing, and I quote from another principle entitled 'Respect for universal values  and diversity of cultures':  'A true journalist stands for the universal values of humanism ... and  ..., participates actively in the social transformation towards demo-  cratic betterment of society and contributes through dialogue to a  climate of confidence in international relations conducive to peace and  justice everywhere, to detente, disarmament and national development'.  We are not afraid of combining freedom with such a responsibility, which is dedi-  cated to what might be called 'United Nations ideology'. As a matter of fact,  speaking about freedom, we have noticed, in studying the history of French Revol-  ution and reading again the classics of libertarian thought, that the original,  genuine doctrine of freedom of speech and freedom of the press was far from an  abstract value void of socio-political substance. On the contrary, liberty was an  ideological instrument in the hands of the rising bourgeoisie in its struggle  against the old feudal order. The new information order outlined at that time for  example by John Stuart Mill in his famous essay 'On Liberty' defined freedom of  expression as a crucial value, not because of freedom as such, but because of its  potential benefit for the common good of mankind.
32.8 We are not afraid either of the new international information and com-  munication order as advocated today in the documents of Unesco, the United  Nations and the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries. As a matter of fact, most of  the new order idea is already imbedded in the United Nations Charter, the Unesco  Constitution and the international law concerning communications which has since  evolved in the international community. Precisely how we understand the new  information order is laid down in the last of the International Principles of  Professional Ethics in Journalism which reads as follows:  The journalist operates in the contemporary world within the framework  of a movement towards new international relations in general and a new  information order in particular. This new order, understood as an inte-  gral part of the New International Economic Order, is aimed at the  decolonization and democratization of the field of information and com-  munication, both nationally and internationally, on the basis of peace-  ful Co-existence among peoples and with full respect for their cultural  identity. The journalist has a special obligation to promote the process  of democratization of international relations in the field of infor-  mation, in particular by safeguarding and fostering peaceful and  friendly relations among States and peoples.
32.9 Mr President, let me return to Unesco and make my final observation on  the orientation of the draft programme and budget as far as the sector of com-  munication is concerned. The recommendations of the Executive Board concerning  the Draft Programme and Budget for 1986-1987 (document 23 C/6) among other things  reaffirms the intellectual nature of Unesco's mission of international co-  operation and stresses the need to maintain a balance between activities involv-  ing study and reflection, on the one hand, and operational activities on the  other. What in fact is this balance in quantitative terms of the distribution of  resources between different programme actions? A careful reading of Major Pro-  gramme III shows that reflection and studies on various aspects of communication  make up no more than about 5 per cent of the budget of this sector, while 95 per  cent of the resources is allocated to predominantly operational activities. Five  against 95 or 1 to 20 - is this really balance? An honest journalist would not  dare to use that word in such an obvious case of imbalance. We do not wish to  undermine the importance of action - least of all the good International Pro-  gramme for the Development of Communication (IPDC) - but we want to raise our  voice of warning against the tendency to do away with the original idea of  Unesco, that is intellectual reflection and co-operation, particularly in the  field of information and communication. Little relection means little substance  in the minds of men. Obviously those who are against reflection and studies are  afraid that their minds will not stand the challenge of free encounter. We pro-  fessional journalists are not such intellectual cowards, but we are fully pre-  pared to continue and develop our really balanced co-operation with Unesco. Thank  you for your attention.
33. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of the International Organization of Journal-  ists, and I now invite Mr Osvaldo Nestor Feinstein, representative of the Latin  American Social Science Faculty, to take the floor.
(34.1) Mr FEINSTEIN (FLACSO) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, it is a great  honour for the Latin American Social Science Faculty (FLACSO) to have the opportunity  to address you at this plenary meeting of the General Conference. Our faculty was set  up 28 years ago by Unesco, which has supported it ever since.
(34.2) The decentralization of Unesco's activities has reduced the distance between  its Headquarters and our institution, which operates in 30 countries of the region. In  recent years, the number of Member States has increased, reflecting a growing interest  in expanding national and regional social science capacities.
(34.3) It is not fortuitous that this is happening at a time when most Latin  American countries are passing through a severe crisis that transcends strictly econ-  omic and national boundaries. There are common problems, and efforts to find appropri-  ate solutions must be co-ordinated, taking into consideration the specific features of  each national situation and at the same time placing each response in the context of  the crisis and in a regional framework. FLACSO is working in that direction and  Unesco's Draft Programme and Budget for 1986-1987 is an instrument that can be of con-  siderable assistance in fulfilling the region's needs in that respect.
(34.4) In particular, Programme VI.4, 'Research, training and international co-  operation in the social and human sciences', and more specifically Subprogramme VI.4.2  on regional and subregional co-operation in the social and human sciences, are fully  in line with FLACSO's objectives and tasks. The programme will enable us to draw up a  coherent, sustained and appropriate plan for the Latin American region, contributing  through fellowships and research assistance to the development of national and  regional social science capacities and to the production of knowledge conducive to a  better understanding of reality and capable of being used, at least in part, to formu-  late sound policies that sytematically reflect the results of studies based on the  region's own experience.
(34.5) However, we also consider it important to make progress in interregional co-  operation, promoting discussion on common problems with African and Asian countries as  well as analyses and reviews of the experience of those regions. This is a kind of  work in which Unesco's assistance can be very valuable. Mr President, we reiterate our
823    support for Unesco and our willingness to continue co-operating with it, bearing in  mind the importance of preserving the Organization's universality. Thank you very  much.
35. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representatiave of the Latin American Social Science  Faculty, and I invite Mr Jean-Pierre Dubois, the representative of the Inter-  national Association of Democratic Lawyers, to take the floor.
36.1 M. DUBOIS (Association internationale des juristes démocrates) :  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, j ' interviens ce soir à la  tribune de la vingt-troisième session de la Conférence générale, au nom de  l'Association internationale des juristes démocrates qui est représentée auprès  de l'Unesco en qualité d'organisation non gouvernementale. Qu'il me soit donc  permis, au nom du président de notre Association, Me Joë Nordmann, et au nom de  son secrétaire général, Amar Bentoumi, de remercier l'Unesco de nous donner ainsi  l'occasion de mieux faire connaître 1'AIJD et les buts qu'elle poursuit.
36.2 Dans un monde qui est divisé, qui est déchiré par les antagonismes  qu'engendrent l'impérialisme, le racisme et l'intolérance - un monde OU se  superposent les lignes de partage entre le Nord et le Sud, entre l'Est et  l'ouest, entre les systèmes sociaux et les stades de développement, les juristes  ont en tant que tels une responsabilité particulière. Le droit, chacun le sait,  n'est pas neutre dans les conflits sociaux et internationaux. Facteur de paix et  d'équité lorsqu'il est utilisé à des fins progressistes, il peut aussi, et c'est  encore trop souvent le cas, se transformer en un instrument d'oppression ren-  forcée qui prétend légitimer la dictature et l'injustice.
36.3 Ce monde divisé a besoin de juristes. I1 a besoin tout particulièrement  d'un mouvement international de juristes à l'avant-garde de la lutte contre  l'impérialisme, contre le racisme, la course aux armements, pour la marche vers  la paix, vers le développement et pour la défense des droits de l'homme.
36.4 Tel est le rôle qu'entend jouer l'Association internationale des ju-  ristes démocrates. Forte de 83 associations nationales de juristes, elle est en  fait le seul mouvement de juristes qui dépasse, dans son organisation même, non  seulement les frontières nationales, mais aussi les barrières entre les systèmes  économiques et sociaux. C'est dire qu'elle construit son action à la fois sur le  progressisme, en liaison avec l'élaboration d'un nouvel ordre international et un  droit international du développement, et sur le pluralisme, car le dialogue entre  les différents systèmes juridiques et politiques donnent à notre action sa  v é r i t ab 1 e s i gn i f i c a t i on,
36.5 Cette action, elle est aujourd'hui plus nécessaire que jamais. L'ac-  tualité la plus récente, de bombardements d'objectifs civils en Tunisie en  détournements d'avion de ligne égyptiens, souligne que certains Etats n'hésitent  plus à violer les principes les plus élémentaires des relations internationales  et à se conduire comme de véritables pirates face à d'autres Etats pourtant des  plus pacifiques. Ainsi, le progrès par le droit, auquel 1'AIJD a pour mission de  travailler, suppose d'abord aujourd hui tout particulièrement le respect du droit  par les Etats et la dénonciation d'actes d'agression qui mettent en danger  l'ensemble de la communauté internationale.
36.6 Cette Conférence de Sofia est d'ailleurs un lieu privilégié pour dé-  noncer de telles pratiques, qui n'atteignent pas seulement les relations entre  les Etats mais également les organisations internationales elles-mêmes. La même  politique qui conduit à l'arraisonnement en plein ciel d'un avion civil étranger  explique les tentatives de déstabilisation d'une organisation internationale dont  certains ne supportent plus l'indépendance d'esprit. L'une des raisons de mon  inteïveïition réside dars la volonté de l'Association internationale des juristes  démucrntec d'apporter son soutien le plus total à l'Unesco, face aux attaques  injustifiabl-ee c'ont elle a récemment été l'objet, dans son action en faveur du  développement social et culturel. Au-delà des péripéties d'une conjoncture  difficile, nous sommes convaincus que l'Unesco saura maintenir l'orientation et  l'efficacité de son intervention partout où elle est nécessaire, aujourd'hui plus  que jamais.
36.7 L'Association internationale des juristes démocrates souhaite prendre sa  part de ce combat pour la paix, pour le progrès et le développement. Elle en a  aujouyd'hui les moyens.
36.8 En effet, la coopération entre m t r e  Association et l'Unesco ne date pas  d'hier. La participation de membres de 1'AICD 2 l'elaboration d'ouvrages consé-  cutifs à des travaux de recherche publiés dans la collection "Les défis du droit  international" en porte témoignage. L'AIJD, en tant qu'association internationale
22  pluraliste de juristes, organise de larges rencontres internationales ; elle  envoie des missions dans les pays o0 les libertés démocratiques ou l'indépendance  nationale sont menacées i de manière générale, elle favorise les échanges entre  juristas et le développement de recherches nationales et internationales pour  faire progresser la science juridique et la conscience démocrati ue. Elle se fixe  ils sont menacés, la légalité internationale partout où elle est violée et le  droit des peuples à disposer d'eux-mêmes partout OU il est bafoué,
36.9 Dans cet esprit, 1'AIJD entend, dans les mois à venir, développer des  recherches dont les thèmes correspondent à certaines préoccupations qu'exprime le  Programme de l'Unesco. Ces recherches porteront tout particulièrement sur trois  points : d'abord, l'enjeu en matière de pouvoir et de développement que repré-  sente la maîtrise des techniques de communication ; ensuite, le problème de la  delimitation et de l'étude des frontières étatiques (plus spécialement des  ?rontieres maritimes entre les Etats) ; et, enfin, la question des ressources et  des charges financières des pays en développement, en particulier la question de  leur endettement, de leur accès au crédit international, du développement de leur  fiscalité, etc.
36.10 Cette très brève liste n'est évidement pas exhaustive. Elle vise  seulement à vous donner un aperçu des préoccupations actuelles et futures de  notre Association, et de son souhait de contribuer au progrès du droit inter-  national en coopérant avec 1,'ensemble des forces de paix et de progrès dans le  monde.
36.11 Tel est le sens de sa parcicipation aux travaux de votre Conférence  générale et de sa présence auprès de l'Unesco en qualité d'organisation non  gouvernementale. Telle est aussi la volonté que je suis venu exprimer ce soir  devant votre Assemblée.  ainsi pour but de ddfendre sur tous les terrains les droits de 1 9 homme partout o0
(37.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the representative of the International Association of Democratic  Lawyers. I should like to make a number of comments after this final speech in today's  general policy debate, a debate which has given us the opportunity, following the  introduction by the Chairman of the Executive Board and the Director-General, to  listen to speeches by many heads of Member States' delegations and other participants  in the General Conference.
(37.2) A total 176 speakers took the floor, 137 representing Unesco's Member States,  one an Associate Member, one a non-Member State, four representing liberation move-  ments, two United Nations organizations, eight intergovernmental organizations and 23  non-governmental organizations. The Director-General will reply at the plenary meeting  on Friday morning to all these statements which have proved so diverse, full of sub-  stance and at times original. In his reply, as on previous occasions, he will summar-  ize the speeches and answer any questions raised,
(37.3)  and representatives who have spoken in this debate.
(37.4) The meeting stands adjourned.  The time has come to express my gratitude to all the distinguished delegates  . The meeting rose at 7.55 p.m.  La séance est levée 3 19 h.55  Se levanta la sesión a las 19.55  Sacename saKpmaeTcs B 19.55  G L . 4  YJ0O asui 4 .LJ+lI dJ  aìJ!T19&5 5@%*