Dix-huitième séance plénière
30 octobre 1987. à 10 h 15  Président : M. ZLENKO (RSS d’Ukraine)  Eighteenth plenary meeting
(1) Le PRESIDENT (traduit du russe) :  Mesdames, Messieurs, honorables délégués, je déclare ouverte la dix-huitième  séance plénière de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco. Nous poursuivons le débat de  politique générale, et, à cet égard, je souhaiterais inviter les représentants de la  Consultation collective des organisations non gouvernementales de jeunesse,  Mlle Marie-Paule Roudil, M. Bruno Montout et Mlle Silvia Rakoto Famola, à.faire une  déclaration collective.
2.1 Mlle ROUDIL, M. MONTOUT, Mlle FAMOLA (Consultation collective des ONG  de jeunesse) :  (Mlle Roudil prend la parole)  Monsieur le President, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et  Messieurs les délégués, au nom des organisations non gouvernementales de jeu-  nesse, je tiens à vous remercier d'avoir bien voulu, & travers elles, donner aux  jeunes la possibilité de faire entendre leur voix dans cette importante assem-  blée. La Consultation collective, mécanisme mis en place en 1975 dans le cadre  du prograTe de jeunesse de l'Unesco, et & laquelle participent 72 organisations  internationales non gouvernementales de jeunesse regroupant des millions de  jeunes du monde entier, par-delà les disparités socio-économiques et les diffé-  rences culturelles,. politiques et religieuses, a instauré une coopération  étroite entre elles et l'Unesco. Les organisations non gouvernementales de jeu-  nesse attachent une grande importance à la concertation et à la coopération avec  l'Unesco, comme elles l'ont souligné lors de la célébration du 40e anniversaire  de l'Unesco et comme elles l'ont réaffirmé à la vingtième Conférence des organi-  sations internationales non gouvernementales tenue à Paris en juin 1986.
2.2 Dans le monde actuel, où existent des tensions et des affrontements,  mais dans lequel des défis exaltants sont à relever, les jeunes constituent une  ressource humaine essentielle, porteuse d'espérance, une force qui agit en  faveur du changement pour un avenir de développement, de sécurité, de coopéra-  tion et de pa5.x. Nous sommes convaincus que l'Unesco saura entendre l'appel des  jeunes et mettre en place des programmes de travail nouveaux répondant 6 leur  attente. L& rôle des organisations non gouvernementales de jeunesse est, d'une  part, de faire mieux prendre conscience des problèmes rencontrés par la jeunesse - chômage et sous-emploi, sous-qualification, conditions de vie précaires, vio-  lences*- et, d'autre part, de proposer des solutions tenant compte des possibi-  lités nouvelles qu'offrent les progrès éducatifs, scientifiques et technologiques  de notre Bpoque.  ' (Mlle Roudil cède la parole & M. Montout)
2.3 Mais surtout, nos organisations veulent offrir aux jeunes la possibi-  lité de s'engager concrètement, personnellement, dans des actions positives pou-  vant faire d'eux les protagonistes du devenir de notre société.
2.4. I1 s'agit de se battre pour sauver des milliers de vies du fléau des  drogues : les jeunes sont les mieux placés pour conduire des actions de préven-  tion auprès d'autres jeunes.
2.5 I1 importe de renforcer les programmes d'alphabétisation par l'adhésion  massive de tous ceux qui ont le privilège de savoir lire et écrire, en mettant  les jeunes au tout premier rang.
2.6 I1 s'agit enfin de multiplier les échanges interculturels afin que les  jeunes, par une connaissance directe des cultures et des peuples, puissent être
18  des promoteurs convaincus de la comprehension internationale, de la solidarité,  de la justice, de la paix.
2.7 C'est tout particulièrement de ces thèmes et des modalités à mettre en  oeuvre pour parvenir à une grande mobilisation de la jeunesse qu'a traitée la  récente Consultation collective des organisations de jeunesse, organisée par  l'Unesco en Espagne.  (M. Montout cède la parole à Mlle Famola)
2.8 C'est donc, Monsieur le Président, pour renforcer cette action de par-  ticipation des jeunes et d'engagement de leur part,en faveur des grands objectifs  de l'Organisation que nous espérons voir l'Unesco - lorsqu'elle préparera son  troisième Plan à moyen terme - donner à son action avec la jeunesse une dimension  nouvelle en l'intégrant au travail des commissions nationales, aux projets ope-  rationnels sur le terrain et à ses actions à long terme comme la Décennie mon-  diale du développement culturel et le Plan de développement de l'éducation pour  la compréhension, la coopération et la paix internationales. L'Unesco devrait  aussi faire un effort particulier d'information des jeunes en vue de leur faire  connaître l'ensemble des activités de l'Organisation et prévoir des publications  qui leur seraient spécialement destinées.
2.9 C'est pourquoi, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les  délégués, nous souhaitons que le travail de l'Unesco avec la jeunesse se concré-  tise dans un grand programme relatif à la jeunesse dans le prochain Plan 2 moyen  terme.
2.10 Monsieur le President, nous comptons sur cette vingt-quatrieme session  de la Conférence générale pour faire de la jeunesse un véritable levier qui  donnera à l'organisation une vigueur et une force renouvelées. Merci, Monsieur  le Président.
2 Gnaronapm IIpenCTäBMTeJIek KOJIneKTMBHOk KOHCyJibTäiJ&ïif MOJIOaeXHbIX HenpaBMTWb-  CTBeHHbIX OpïâHM3auM6, M CekisûC IipenOCTûBJiRIû CJíOBO r-Hy TIixenn. MMHMCTPY 06pû30BâHMR, rnaBe Henera-  U A M  necol.0.
(3) Le PRESIDENT (traduit du russe) :  Je remercie les représentants de la Consultation collective des organisa-  tions non gouvernementales de jeunesse et je donne la parole ?i M. Tiheli, ministre  de l'éducation et chef de la délégation du Lesotho.
4.1 Mr TIHELI (Lesotho) :  Mr President, Mr Director-General of Unesco, Mr Chairman of the  Executive Board, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great  pleasure and a privilege for me to be able to make a brief intervention on behalf  of the Lesotho delegation and on my own behalf. We bring with us Lesotho's  greetings and best wishes to Unesco and its international membership. From the  outset, Mr President, let me join the host of speakers who came before me in  congratulating Kr Putzeys Alvarez on the honour and responsibility bestowed upon  him in his election to the presidency of the twenty-fourth session of Unesco's  General Conference. Like my predecessors who spoke from this rostrum, we know and  we are confident that his leadership skills, experience and devotion to the  well-being of Unesco will match the challenges and pressures that come with this  great responsibility.
4.2 Equally fitting, Mr President, is a word of appreciation that must go to  the Director-General of Unesco for a good job well done over the past few years  and, in particular, since the last General Conference session in Sofia. We are  satisfied that you have acquitted yourself very well, Mr Director-General, and  with diligence and courage used the resources at your disposal to ensure that  Unesco's impact on education, science, culture, communications, peace and  brotherhood in our world is felt and seen. We are not unaware of the ups and  downs that have characterized your leadership in this noble Organization.
4.3 Mr President, it was over 40 years ago that man-made wars of destruction  nearly brought an end to our beautiful world and to man himself. Unfortunately,  there has been an unprecedented proliferation of the deadliest weapons capable of  wiping out the entire plúnet in seconds. And, it was also 40 years ago that  Unesco was born, essentially 'out of war and in time of war'. One of its  objectives was, and continues to be, to foster peaceful coexistence among the  peoples of the world. It is sad that even as we gather here for the twenty-fourth  session of the General Conference, great sufiering and loss of life and property  continue seriously to threaten the very survival of what we call our civilized  world. Many excuses for the absence of universal peace have been made, but there
581    can be no doubt that the cause of war revolves around man's inhumanity to man and  a preoccupation with hunger for power. It is because of the foregoing,  Mr President, that Lesotho strongly supports Major Programme XIII, in particular  as it relates to the maintenance of peace and international understanding,  respect for human rights, education for peace and respect for human rights and  the rights of peoples. It is pleasing to note that the budgetary allocations do  underline the importance attached to the resolutions and recommendations under  this part of the programme. However, Mr President, we should urge that, as  charity begins at home, more decisive efforts should be made at the national  level to eliminate war as a way of solving problems between man and man as well  as problems between nation and nation.
4.4 Relevant to the need to eliminate war in favour of peaceful coexistence  amongst the peoples of the world is the crying need to remove discrimination  based on colour, race, religion, sex or any other criterion that relegates man to  a lesser position than he should occupy. Unesco's Major Programme XII, as drafted  for consideration and adoption by the Conference, does underline the urgency to  remove discrimination based on 'racial or ethnic exclusiveness or intolerance and  terror, which deprive people of basic human rights and fundamental freedoms and  of equality of opportunity'. Although the proposed budgetary allocations do not  suggest an increase over the last biennium's expenditure, it is noteworthy that  Unesco continues its commitment to seeing a peaceful world, even given the  present financial constraints.
4.5 Mr President, Lesotho riotes with appreciation the efforts of Unesco in  the promotion of the right to education through Major Programme II (Education for  all). In particular, she is fully aware of the untiring efforts of the  Organization ana lember States to mount programmes that will enhance increased  access ior all to basic and primary education. It is important to accept that the  struggle to provide education for all must be seen as an ongoing and lifelong  struggle. It is necessarily expensive in terms of time, energy, financial and  human resources. However, the job will not be finished before every man, woman  arid child has benefited meaningfully from education. For her part, Lesotho has  continued to increase the capacity of basic and primary education through the  provision of learning and teachirig facilities that will accommodate more  primary-school children, improve the quality of learning through providing  government-subsidized educational materials under the Schools Supplies Unit of  the Minlstry of Education and also improve the literacy programmes within  Lesotho's aäult and non-formal education department so that a greater number of  rural Basotho can gain access to education. These efforts have been sustained  because of our firm belief that the democratization of education through the  provision of education for all as well as the eradication of illiteracy are among  the few ways in which we can ensure the fullest participation possible by every  Mosotho in his or her own development. Indeed, this is the only way in which  equity in the utilization of the benefits of development may be realized so that,  on average, the real advantage goes to every citizen. However, Mr President, one  should point out that there are constraints. For instance, the high enrolment  rate at the primary-school level has not been matched with parallel teacher  recruitment because of Serious financial constraints. This has resulted in  unfavourable teacher/pupil ratios which affect the quality of teaching and hence  the quality of the ultimate product. Another serious constraint which  characterizes the developing world and bedevils our situation is the inability of  the system of education to attract and retain well-qualified teachers.
4.6 It is with these problems and constraints in mind that Lesotho wishes to  propose most strongly that collaborative efforts and initiatives at the  subregional, regional and international levels must be stepped up in order to  ensure a practical sharing of experience, success and failure stories so that we  can learn how to improve our situation from the experiences of others. Unesco's  usual support arid assistance will be most welcome. Additionally, it is our view  that efforts to promote education further for disabled persons and young children  under the age of 6 should not be spared. Accordingly, the Lesotho Ministry of  Education has set up a department of special and pre-school education to look  after the proper co-ordination of the provision of education for those falling  into these categories. This initiative goes hand in hand with community and  parental involvement in this vital area. It is because of the foregoing that  Lesotho's delegation particularly supports and calls for the adoption of  Programmes 11.1, 11.2, 11.3 and 11.5 tor implementation as proposed. As far as  Programme 11.4, Equality of educational opportunity for girls and women, is  concerned, we are happy to report that Lesotho has one of the rare performances  in education where equal access to education between men and women is a common  feature. In actual fact, sex ratios have predominantly favoured females at the  primary and seconda'ry school levels, a phenomenon that may be explained by the  fact that boys are engaged in pastara1 and agricultural activities and later have  to work in the mines. However, these practices are being subjected to a steady  control so as to balance sex ratios.
4.7 Of major concern in Lesotho in recent years has been the much needed  link between education and the world of work. In an attempt to ensure a  meaningful link, we have adopted two thrusts, namely, diversification of  curricula particularly at the secondary school level so that academic and  practical studies go hand in hand, and the setting up of a number of vocational  and technical educational institutions in selected areas. Moreover, as one of our  many priorities, we have now set up a department of technical and vocational  education to look after curricular design, monitoring the maintenance of  standards as well as evaluating the performance of the subsystem. It should be  noted, Mr President, that, in our view, education will not have fulfilled one of  its ultimate goals unless it is truly linked to production which forms the  centre-piece of education for self-reliance. Our present efforts are geared  towards making it possible for our schools to move towards a certain amount of  self-reliance in all aspects of their life. Only then can we rightfully expect to  produce self-reliant school-leavers. As usual, we will continue to share our  experiences with others and endeavour to benefit from what they have achieved.
4.8 Because of the importance we attach to vocational and technical  education, the study and application of technology and making education relevant  to the world of work, we wish to commend Unesco for including the teaching of  science and technology, education and the world of work as well as higher  education, training and research under Major Programme V. Equally appreciated is  the focus that is given to the sciences and their application to development  under Major Programme VI. Specifically, we align our objectives and future  efforts to the 'modernization of the teaching of science and technology' through  introducing content that is relevant and in keeping with the demands of national  and international development. For developing countries such as Lesotho, the  challenge is that of introducing improvements in the teachirig of science that  will foster national development while taking particular care to keep abreast  with scientific and technological developments internationally. With respect to  linking education and the world of work, we appreciate the recommendations under  Programme V.3.
4.9 Mr President, let me now come to another area of great importance to the  survival and progress of mankind. This is the area of science as covered under  Major Programmes VI and IX. Fully aware of the breadth and depth of Unesco's role  in the promotion of science and technology and appreciative of the direct  benefits of the development of human resources through advanced training in the  natural sciences, technology and the engineering sciences, the Lesotho delegation  wishes to support the resolutions and all the activities proposed under Major  Programme VI. We note with satisfaction that priority has been given to the  training components of Programmes VI.1, VI.2 and VI.3. As far as the proposed  actions under Subprogramme VI.l.l are concerned, the mathematics department of  the National University of Lesotho is preparing to play an active role in  activities outlined under paragraph 06104, in particular, as they relate to  participation in both the First Third World Congress of Mathematics and the World  Congress of Mathematics, both scheduled for 1990. We wish also to commend Unesco  for the keen interest it continues to take in the promotion of scientific  research that will benefit developing countries. We wish to thank Unesco for the  financial assistance provided to Lesotho to enable some study of the medicinal  and edible plants of Lesotho to be undertaken. The project is proceeding  smoothly. Further, we note with full support the priority attached to the  promotion of innovation in university science teaching , particularly in  developing countries. International co-operation on new developments in  university science curricula and their possible impact on the training of  secondary school teachers as reflected under paragraph 06112 is fully supported.  Lesotho's delegation welcomes the proposed action within the framework of  Unesco's international network on computers in science.
4.10 AS far as Major Programme IX and its proposed resolution arid actions are  concerned, Lesotho wishes to align herself with the basic proposals. In  particular, we support the intended study of the relationships between science,  technology and society as described under paragraph 09104. Additionally the  promotion of international co-operation for policy development in science and  technoïogy as described under Subprogramme IX.2.1 is most welcome to Lesotho. It  is noteworthy that the imminent implementation of the Lesotho Highlands Water  Project is a major challenge to the country and her people to ensure that the  fruits of the project and its spin-offs truly benefit the Basotho. It is for this  reason in particular that, recently, we have taken a policy decision to set up a  department of water technology within our only polytechnic. Thus, proposed  actions as they relate to paragraphs 09211, O9212 and 09213 are supported fully  by Lesotho's delegation. Of even greater significance under Major Programme IX is  the inclusion of training, research and information exchange for the management  of science and technology development. Paragraph 09216, and especially  subparagraph 09217.1.3 hold a lot of promise that Unesco will, as usual, come to  the rescue of the developing world and provide the much needed assistance.
583    Lesotho will take the fullest advantage of the proposed actions. Further, she  plans to use the CASTAFRICA forum as well as Unesco itself to formulate and  refine her science and technology policies so as to operate from a position of  increased strength and firmer ground.
4.11 As I approach the close of my intervention, Mr President, allow me to  make reference to the future of Unesco ana express a hope. When this Organization  was born about 40 years ago, it declared a commitment to peace, mutpal  coexistence and close co-operation amongst its Member States in the areas of  education, science, culture, communication and the social sciences. On looking  back, we must be convinced that a lot has been achieved; and yet the challenge  that lies ahead is a formidable one in terms of its call to preserve the very  existence and wdl-being of Unesco. For its part, the Organization has done a lot  to make sure that Member States benefit from being part of it. The programme of  decentralization is one of the most significant recent examples of the  Organizatiori's commitment to bring its physical presence and resources to the  people. In our African region for instance, the fact that Unesco has offices in  Dakar (Senegal), Nairobi (Kenya) and Harare (Zimbabwe) and that it provides  various forms of assistance through these Regional Of fices confirms the progress  made towards decentralizing the functions of Unesco. Recent meetings of National  Commissions held in Malawi and Senegal and the CASTAFRICA Conference held in  Arusha, Tanzania, also form examples of that progress: Clearly, the exploitation  of the tul1 potential of the Organization to serve may depend almost entirely on  the readiness of every Member State to adhere to the tradition of solidarity,  even during times of turmoil.
4.12 The past few years bear sufficient testimony to the factthat the Organ-  ization's spirit of oneness has been undermined. Some members threatened to leave  the Organization and finally carried out their threat. And even as we go about  the business of this Conference, more rumblings of threats to leave Unesco  continue to be heard. If Unesco has shifted from its noble principles of intel-  lectual debate and negotiations as some members allege, it is up to the members  themselves to reform the Organization rather than pull out of it. It is bedause  of all this, Mr President, that I wish to make a plea and express a hope that all  those that left the Organization will come back to the fold and that those who  have been making threats to leave will withdraw their threats and continue to  occupy their rightful places in the unique responsibility of building a better  Unesco for future generations. Equally important is the need for all those whose  contributions are outstanding for any reason to pull up their socks and bring  their participation up to date in this vital area. It is the responsibility of  all of us to strive to leave a respectable heritage for our children.
4.13 The twenty-fourth .session of Unesco's General Conference will witness  the appointment of a new Director-General for this Organization. Our contention  is that whoever is appointed will be appointed in accordance with the provisions  of Article VI of the Constitution. Threats and misrepresentations can only do a  lot of harm to the process of appointing the occupant of this very crucial  position in the running of the Organization. May the twenty-fourth session be a  reminder that we have a collective responsibility to make Unesco the living,  respectable, progressive and result-oriented Organization that it must be. Thank  you, Mr President.
(5) Le PUSIDENT (traduit du russe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Lesotho de son intervention. J'in-  vite maintenant le Directeur exécutif adjoint du Programme des Nations Unies pour  l'environnement (PNUE), M. Guennady Golubev, a prendre la parole.
6.1 Mr GOLUBEV (United Nations Environment Programme):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, Excel-  luricies, ladies and gentlemen, the United Nations Environment Programme thanks  the General Conference and the Director-General of Unesco for the invitation and  the opportunity to address you on behalf of the Executive Director of UNEP,  Dr M. Tolba.
6.2 Let me start by pointing out to you a remarkable result of co-operation  between UNEP and Unesco - the success of the joint International Congress on  Environmental Education and Training, which took place in Moscow in August 1987.  The history of the International Environmental Education Programme (IEEP)  constitutes the main collaborative effort between UNEP and Unesco. The spirit of  co-operation which turned the Congress into a truly successful event will, I am
18  convinced, continue into the future for the mutual benefit of both organizations.  IEEP dates back to 1975. During these 12 years, both organizations have shown  their ability to co-operate, learning from earlier mistakes. This was  demonstrated most clearly by the success of the recent Congress.
6.3 Let me give you another example of successful co-operation.  Cost-effectiveness in the United Nations system is a subject often discussed in  the media. But it can only be achieved by better co-ordination in order to avoid  duplication of efforts. This was achieved by a first regional meeting of the  Unesco-UNEP Secretariat on Environmental Education and Training for Latin America  and Caribbean region in Mexico City in September 1987. That group considered the  regionalization of IEEP activities. It was felt that the implementation of some  of the planned activities via Regional Offices would produce a more locally  áüapted approach towards environmental education and training while safeguarding  conceptual links with a worldwide programme. Such an approach and the model of  co-operation developed is now ready to be applied to other regions of the world.
6.4 We are of course aware that Unesco was in the environment 'business'  long before us - particularly in the science and education spheres. But I am also  proud to say that I feel that UNEP has grown slowly frGm a less known partner  into a respected organization for the mutual benefit of the United Nations  system. Proof of this feeling of joint understanding is what I shall call a  catalogue of co-operation - the list of areas in which UNEP and Unesco work  together. The most concise list of those co-operative efforts is given in a  recent Memorandum of Understanding concluded by the Director-General of Unesco  and the Executive Director of UNEP, but I shall not take up your time with the  long list of the various fields of shared interests. There are many.
6.5 We are now co-operating as equal partners with Unesco towards the design  and implementation of Phase IV of IEEP in such a way that it already reflects  carefully the recently adopted Strategy for Environmental Education and Training  for the 1990s.
6.6 This co-operation will undoubtedly assume further importance when one of  the main recommendations of the Moscow Congress - the declaration of the 1990s as  the 'Decade of Environmental Education' - is approved and implemented. This pro-  posed Decade would concentrate on teaching the concept of sustainable development  everywhere, at all levels to everybody.
6.7 The subject of this Decade will be strongly influenced by a major  envirorimental document, published only seven months ago, the Report of the World  Commission on Environment and Development. The document marks a decisive shift  from the era of reaction to the era of pre-emption, from the era of damage  control to the era of environmental management, from the era when the environment  was seen by only a few to have aìi economic aspect to the era when care for the  environment is recognized as essential to sustainable development.
6.8 At the national level, very often the responsibilities for education and  those for the environment are not situated in the same ministry. I would  therefore like to take today's opportunity to appeal to those national  representatives who are responsible for education. and those dealing with the  environment to co-operate in the closest way possible to make the Global Strategy  for Environmental Education and Training in the 1990s and the Decade of  Environmental Education a success not only at the global or regional level, but  especially at the national level.
6.9 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since UNEP last addressed the Unesco  General Conference there have been a number of major environmental events and  trends. They are not only significant in themselves but should be taken into  account when considering the future of UNEP-Unesco co-operation on the  environment.
6.10 First, it is clear that, in the eyes of governments, science, business  and industry, the media, bankers, the NGOs and the general public, the importance  of protecting, improving and rehabilitating the environment has taken a quantum  leap forward. It is clear that the cause of the environment is now at the top of  international political and diplomatic agendas - along with nuclear arms control  and international trade and debt.
6.11 Desertification, deforestation, toxic wastes, hazardous chemicals,  genetic diversity, acid rairi, the ozone layer, the greenhouse effect - all these  have entered political vocabularies and agendas. They were listed as problems,  threats, risks, hazards. Increasingly they are talked of in terms of solutions.
6.12 One pressing phenomenon which has not yet got the attention it deserves  is the danger of possible climate change. UNEP is currently concentrating its
585    programie on the impacts of possible climate change. Unfortunately, scientists  have not yet been able to resolve all the enigmas and identify all unknowns fast  enough to meet the schedules of political äecision-makers. However, the world  cannot wait. Provision for a future with a different climate must be made soon,  particularly if preventive or delaying tactics are to be considered and adaptive  strategies to be effective and timely.
6.13 The world of finance has seen a green light, leading international  lenders crank the environmental equation into their project planning. Only  recently the Wprld Bank declared that good ecology is good economics.
6.14 The link between development and the environment - a concept which UNEP  has been advancing and emphasizing for many years - has now crystallizeä in  international thought in two words which, I am sure, will dominate and guide  development economics from now on: sustainable development.
6.15 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are living at a time of  self-imposed threats. But there is a very powerful reason to be optimistic about  the future. It is increasingly seen and realized that much can be done, that  solutions are available, that strategies exist to protect the planet and its  natural resource base.
6.16 The background and landscape of the joint future actions between UNEP  and Unesco will be influenced by two major interrelated environmental documents  of the last six months. I.have already mentioned the publication of the Report of  the World Commission on Environment and Development. In June 1987 the  Environmental Perspective to the Year 2000 and Beyond was approved by the  Governing Council of UNEP. Both documents have great bearing on the future of  work for the environment.
6.11 Both the WCED Report arid the Environmental Perspective were requested by  the General Assembly. The WCED Report was prepared by eminent people in the field  of environment and gathered evidence and opinion far beyond the limits of govern-  ments and officials. Its Report, literally and figuratively, could be regarded as  a world view on the deficiencies of world development. The Perspective, prepared  under the auspices of UNEP, is the consensus of the views of governments on the  environmental challenges to the end of the century and into the next.
6.18 The General Assembly of the United Nations, meeting now, thus has two  historic environriental documents before it. They are plain, they are pragmatic.  They are not pessimistic but they spell out enormous tasks. They are not reports  on disaster, but they are analyses of crisis. They mark a turning-point in  history, and their approach should be incorporated into all development  activities.
6.19 Both the WCED Report and the Environmental Perspective look to UNEP to  play a central role in the environment-development linkage. In the words of the  Commission, UNEP's role in leadership, advice, and guidance for protection of the  ecological basis for sustainable development should be strengthened. We are  confident that we are capable of following up the various recommendations of both  reports.
6.20 The UNEP Governing Council considered the Commission's Report and the  Environmental Perspective and sent draft resolutions on them to the General  Assembly of the United Nations. I think it is fair to say that the essence of  those resolutions is that sustainable development should be a 'central guiding  principle' of the United Nations and governments. The follow-up thereto is  anticipated through the Second Systemwide Medium-Term Environment Programme for
1990-1995. Unesco participates in the preparation of this Programme. We would  like to take today's opportunity to say that we are eager to see Unesco take this  Programme as the main background document in preparing the corresponding part of  its Medium-Term Plan.
6.21 That brings me, Mr President, to the Montreal Protocol to protect the  ozorie layer. This agreement, secured six weeks ago, is historic not only because  it is the first universal and global environmental agreement for the protection  of the planet's total population, but also because it is 'anticipatory and  preventive'. At Montreal the nations decided to face a distant threat - the risk  of general depletion of the protective ozone layer - and to act together against  it - in advance. And the fact that this unprecedented agreement was arranged and  secured - after ten years of research and negotiation - by a part of the United  Nations, UNEP, is significant in several ways, not least for the reputation of  the United Nations itself.
6.22 The environmental era of thinking ahead presents great new challenges  aqd opportunities to all who work on these issues. UNEP looks forward to
586    continuing, extending, and accelerating its co-operation with Unesco. The WCED  Report to the General Assembly, the Environmental Perspective Report to the  General Assembly, and the Montreal protocol, all under United Nations auspices,  show that the United Nations system is in the vanguard of protecting and  improving the environment, the essential basis for sustainable development.  Unesco and UNEP can together make a substantial co-operative contribution in  those tasks. Thank you very much.
7. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Assistant Executive Director of the United Nations  Environment Programme for his statement, and I give the floor to H.E. Li Fo Sjoe,  Minister of Education, Science and Culture and head of the delegation of  Suriname.
8.1 Mr LI-FO-SJOE (Suriname) :  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Ivr Director-General of  Unesco, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, Mr President,  first to extend to Mr Putzeys Alvarez the warm congratulations of my delegation  and of the Surinamese Government on his election. The major issues of this  Corirerence will undoubteãly be dealt with satisfactorily under his leadership and  wise guidance.
8.2 Mr President, my delegation wishes to express its gratitude to the  French Government for hosting this Conference. The hospitality of the French  people undoubtedly enhances the spirit of this Conference.
8.3 May I also take this opportunity to welcome Aruba as a new Associate  Member of Unesco.
8.4 Mr President, although for years Unesco has been working towards uniting  mankind and thus contributing to the lofty aim of creating peace throughout the  world, we are still faced by a situation in which wars, civil wars arid senseless  violence abound. Only Unesco's noble ideals of caring for the destitute, the  displaced and those who stand alone in the desert of ignorance remain.
8.5 We sincerely hope that the armed conflicts in the Middle East, Asia and  Central America, as well as the inhuman repression in Southern Africa will soon  come to an end, thus enabling Unesco to achieve its goals, for which it already  has had to make more efforts than in the past and for which even greater  solidarity is now needed. My Government strongly believes that, despite all  problems, Unesco will successfully continue its work to the satisfaction of all  Member States and ill1 peoples of the worlã.
8.6 Mr President, while makirig ali possible efforts in our peaceful country  to fight illiteracy arid to extend education services to all people .and  particularly those in the remote areas, we suddenly realized that the existence  of our peaceful community was seriously endangered. In July 1986 an armed  campaign to overthrow the Government was started and the services of a band of  terrorists employed to this end. During the first month of this campaign terror  reigned in the eastesn part of our country. Many people were kidnapped and.  killed. The terrorists blew up vital roads and bridges, so that large parts of  our population were cut off from medical and other services. Essential parts of  our forestry and palm-oil industries were destroyed and their production was  brought to a standstill, causing the loss of many jobs and millions of dollars.  The terrorists also managed to disrupt the mining of bauxite, one of our main  sources of export earnings. Damage was caused to the high-voltage energy  transmission line, which brought about, among other things, an interruption of  alumina production and the closing down of the aluminium smelter. This had a  devastating effect on our economy and civilian life.
8.7 In this situation military action became inevitable, and part of our  country changed into a war zone. The local inhabitants were repeatedly warned to  move out of the areas occupied by the terrorists in order to make military  operations possible. It was unfortunate that when our army was deployed against  this band of terrorists some civilians were caught in the ensuing crossfire.  Immediately after the international community had been informed of the armed  conflict in the interior of our country, a campaign of lies about massacres was  started by enemies of our Government.
8.8 Mr President, our Government has always protected human rights but, in  order to enable the international community to assess the situation in our  country, the Surinamese Government invited the Commission on Human Rights of the  United Nations and the Inter-American Human Rights Commission of the OAS to  conduct investigations and report on their findings.
8.9 Mr President., our people have recently adopted a new Constitution by
587    means of a referendum held on 30 September 1987. This Constitution will guarantee  true democracy. At the elections to be held on 25 November, just some weeks from  now, everyone will be able to decide on his or her own future and a new era of  civilian control will commence in our country. As was stated by Commander Desiré  D. Bouterse, Heaã of Government of the Republic of Suriname to the General  Assembly of the United Nations on the occasion of the forty-second session: 'The  army is ready and willing to respect the results of this process and is committed  to defending and securing the national integrity and sovereignty of Suriname  against foreign intervention and interference'.
8.10 Mr President, this information was necessary to inform you of the sudden  disturbance of our peaceful society, which is moving towards democracy. Our  participation in the Major Project in the Field of Education in Latin Araerica and  the Caribbean has been quite satisfactory for years and our educational level is  considered acceptable. However, attempts to fight illiteracy are now impeded.  Approximately ten per cent of our school population had to migrate from the  interior. The students have been placed at schools which are now overcrowded. In  addition, due to the lack of foreign currency, there is a great shortage of  textbooks , paper , pens, pencils , stencils and phot9copying material.
8.11 This gloomy picture, Mr President, is further blackened by the hopeless  situation of the thousands of refugees whose children are destitute of education  because of the completely destroyed monumental buildings of some towns in Eastern  Suriname and by the broken links of tribes that were once admired in their  cultural expressions by the Director-General himself when he visited our country  in February 1986. In short, what had been built up for years is now partly  destroyed. This is the balance sheet of one year's violence and, Mr. President,  it is well known that our country has been depriveã of the development aid of the  former colonizer to which it is legally entitled.
8.12 Mr President, in spite of all these setbacks, Suriname will continue to  support the ideals of Unesco. Although some parts of the interior have become  unsafe, literacy and adult education projects are being carried out in parts of  the country that have remained untouched by the terrorists. Another objective of  the Major Project which is improving the quality of education is being dealt with  through the production and circulation of new textbooks.
8.13 Mr President, needless to say that in these days of distress our country  is eager to accept any assistance from Unesco, its Member States and other  institutions which could alleviate our needs. More specifically, we appreciate  assistance comprising teaching-learning material to ensure the continued  provision of education both to our youth and to adults.
8.14 Our country, Mr President, is not yet represented in any organ of  Unesco. In this light the candidature of Suriname for the Executive Board should  be regarded as a deliberate attempt by my Government to participate in the work  of Unesco and thus strengthen co-operation with it.
8.15 Mr President, Unesco has survived many troubled times. Its budget has  suffered lately from the withdrawal of some Member States. Nevertheless it has  neither given up nor fallen apart. Its objectives should never be frustrated by  whatever storms it goes through. As long a$ the nations bring about positive  changes, Unesco's attempts will be bound to yield the fruits of a better future.
8.16 Mr President, we have been informed of the Director-General's decision  to withäraw his candidature, and we respect this step and we are sure that his  achievements will be monuments in the minds of generations after us. We thank him  for his contribution.
8.17 We have been informed of the nomination of Mr Mayor by the Executive  Board. We do hope that his knowledge and experience will favour Unesco. We take  this opportunity to congratulate Mr Mayor on his nomination. Thank you,  Mr President.
9. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the Suriname delegation for his statement, and I  give the floor to Mr Ugo Mifsud Bonnici, Minister of Education and head of the  delegation of Malta.
10.1 Mr MIFSUD BONNICI (Malta):  Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, in  congratulating Mr Putzeys Alvarez on his election to the presidency of this  Conference, I wish to renew the commitment of my country, the Republic of Malta,  to the ideals and goals of Unesco; and to express the hope that it will continue  to follow, and to strengthen, the ideals for which the Organization was founded.
10.2 There is indeed, we believe, a universal commonwealth of understanding,  of caring for others, of human culture, of knowledge. There is a real communion  of wise men and wise women, and it is not only a desideratum still devoutly to be  wished for. A few days ago, when Dr Andrei Kolmogorov died, this distinguished  Soviet mathematician was mourned by the whole confraternity of mathematicians  worldwide. More so today, when the globe has become a village communications-  wise, a composer of a piece of music enriches with joy the whole of humanity.  Scientific research transcends frontiers. The classics of literature and of the  figurative arts not only transcend centuries but also political, geographical,  and class division. Gramsci makes the point about Michelangelo, in order to nip  in the bud any incipient diffidence about great art coming from different social  structures.
10.3 This universitas of knowledge and of culture, this worldwide basis of  civilization, needs an organization and a network, and it is hoped that this  organization and weave of relationships should be all-inclusive and rationally  worked out so as to ensure the free flow of understanding, knowledge and  information. Dialogue is of the essence of human civilization. Indeed we of the  new Government of Malta have emphasized this aspect by using repeatedly the  phrase 'dialogue society', a society based on dialogue. Dialogue is essential to  the national society, dialogue is vital to international society. Dialogue means  above all understanding but it also means transfer of scientific knowledge,  technology, know-how, information, wisdom even. Dialogue between men who have a  greater store of experience, instruction and tradition with others who might have  less or perhaps possess knowledge in different areas. Dialogue is essential to  the satisfaction of human needs and to negotations for the transfer of goods.
10.4 As a developing nation at the centre of the Mediterranean, Malta is the  natural bridge in the North-South dialogue. At the cross-currents of history and  at the confluence of contemporary concerns, Malta is at the same time European  and Mediterranean. Stemming from its geopolitical position, its past is the  microcosm of history; and its present is, in many ways, the barometer of the  destinies of the peoples of the Middle Sea. It is therefore natural that Malta  should seek to be increasingly recognized as a centre for regional activities in  a number of domains, particularly those pertaining to Unesco. Before I dwell on  the special interests of Malta and its potential contribution to our  Organization, let me stress our belief that the United Nations system and its  agencies, including Unesco, should become more regionally oriented.
10.5 Having stressed the universality of the Republic of Culture and our  belief that we should strive to arrive at an all embracing organization, I  believe I need not explain that regional decentralization on the organizational  level does not in any way run counter to this. Regional organization is perhaps  the real remedy for the relative lack of efficiency in the running of the United  Nations Organization. It is, I submit, Mr President, a rather sad commentary on  the conduct of international relations that hardly any of the agencies of, the  United Nations system has recognized that the reform of the United Nations calls,  more than anything else, for regional decentralization. It must be emphasized  that the problems and issues which confront a given geographical region need to  le assessed and solved within the context of that region, and not through  activities based in the administrative headquarters.
10.6 Mr President, I have deliberately spoken of a geographical region. For  unfortunately regions in United Kations parlance .have hardly any relevance to  geopolitical reality. UNDP, for one, still has regional offices based on  European, Arab and African divisions making, for example, the pursuit of a  Mediterranean regional project a real nightmare. This Organization, I am afraid,  fares no better, following the completely artificial structure of regions which  have only bureaucratic significance.
10.7 We all recognize the need to have common activities in the  Mediterranean, and to achieve some measure of cohesion and co-operation among  Mediterranean States in the fervent hope that, through projects commonly shared,  the risks of conflict may be dissipated. It is therefore disappointing to see  that within Unesco itself Mediterranean programmes have been among the first  victims of financial constraints. I appeal to the General Conference to remedy  this situation as soon as possible in the true interest of peace for the  Mediterranean.
10.8 May I say that in one instance in which the countries of the  Mediterranean have set up an organization with the help of UNEP under the  Barcelona Convention on combating pollution in the Mediterranean, all the  regional countries, notwithstanding very varied political stances, meet and  discuss, because of the very real need of combating a common enemy: pollution.  Perhaps this pattern might provide an archetype for further dialogue for  development and peace.
10.9 I should now like to comment briefly on three proposals that we would  like this Conference to take into corisideration.
10.10 The first relates to the rights of future generations to their  environment. This project started by Unesco some years ago seems to have  evaporated from document 24 C/5. Perhaps there is no project of more far-reaching  importance for the Organization and indeed, for the world, than that designed to  affirm the responsibilities of present towards future generations, and in  providing a supranational mechanism to safeguard the rights of future generations  to their environment. Just as twenty years ago at the General Assembly of the  United Nations, Malta took the initiative on the peaceful uses of the ocean-bed  beyond national jurisdiction, an initiative which led to the adoption of the  United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, so equally today I proclaim the  need for the United Natioris community to affirm the rights of future generations  to their environment through an appropriate instrument and through a  supranational regime for the furtherance of those rights. We strongly feel that  the regional conferences which, starting from the one held in Latin America in  December 1985, and followed up by the one to be organized in Asi-a early next  yeas, should be continued and should lead, as was agreed to in the Medium-Term  Plan, to an international conference in 1989. 'The International Environment  Institute , at the Foundation fox International Studies at the University of  Malta, which has been designated by Unesco to pursue this project, has been  working hard to ensure that the activities foreseen in that Plan are implemented.  It is therefore necessary that this General Conference authorize the  Director-General to take immediate steps to strengthen and pursue the project as  originally envisaged.
10.11 The second proposal presented by Malta concerns the setting up of a  Mediterranean Regional Centre for Research and Documentation on Human Rights.  This proposal emanates from one of the key recommendations made at Unesco's  International Conference on the Teaching of Human Rights , Information and  Documentation held in Malta last September.
10.12 The third proposal concerns a School of Foreign Service for the  Mediterranean and also arises from a Unesco meeting, that is, the Unesco Meeting  of Experts on the Role of the International Community in International Law held  in Malta last June.
10.13 We believe that these proposals can offer a valuable contribution to  Mediterranean co-operation. I would suggest that if we are to pay more than lip  service to the cause of Mediterranean unity, we should start, in a modest but  promising way, by adopting these proposals.
10.14 With the change of administration last May, the Government of Malta has  entered into a new phase of educational activity, one designed to ensure that  education evolves harmoniously with the social and economic life of the country.  Indeed, I as Minister of Education have been entrusted with the portfolios of  culture, sport, youth, environment, museums, libraries and broadcasting, in order  to direct the whole educative instruments of the State towards a greater  dissemination of knowledge, information, wisdom, good sense, and the dialogue  method. We are proud to say that the Government of Dr Fenech Adami has proclaimed  that the greatest investment we should make as a nation is in the education of  our young people. For this reason, we are embarking on a radical transformation  of the four-century-old University of Malta, which, with Unesco assistance being  given to the Foundation for International Studies at the University, will  increasingly acquire an international role. Already four international  institutes, namely the International Ocean Institute, the International  Environment Institute, the Mediterranean Institute, arid the International  Institute on Ageing, the latter just designated the first United Nations  Institute on Ageing, are active in Malta and we invite Unesco and the Member  States here present to make use of our facilities and of the other research and  training centres we are in process of setting up, notably in marine affairs, in  matters concerning natural and technological hazards, and in communications. We  are also putting all our efforts into revitalizing our whole educational system  and augmenting our investmerit of resources in all our schools.
10.15 Malta, Mr President, is, after long ages of history, the home of  culture. Hence you will agree with me that since my country possesses some of the  most important vestiges of every major Mediterranean civilization since the dawn  of time, we should ask the world community to help us preserve these treasures  and monuments for the good of all mankind. We are proud of our great cultural  heritage, but we have to say that we are depositaries of so many treasures that  at times we feel the burden of this responsibility and ask for help from our  friends in the world republic of knowledge.
10.16 Mr President, colleagues, may I finally say that we fully support the
18  programme and budget proposals in document 24 C/5, and we wish the Organization,  its Director-General and its staff every success in their noble endeavours. Thank  you, Mr President.
11. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the Maltese delegation for his statement and I give  the floor to H.E. Mr Mohiuddii,, Deputy Permanent Representative of Bangladesh to  the United Nations and head of the delegation of Bangladesh.
12.1 Mr MOHIUDDIN (Bangladesh) :  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed a great honour for me to address  the General Conference of Unesco at this twenty-fourth session. I bring to all  the delegations the warmest greetings of my President and the people of  Bangladesh. May I take this opportunity to offer Mr Putzeys Alvarez, on behalf of  my delegation, our sincerest felicitations, on his election as President of the  General Conference. His election to this high office is indeed a fitting tribute  to his personal qualities and wide-ranging experience. I am confident that, under  his able leadership, the proceedings of this Conference will be crowned with  success. In our turn, I wish to assure him of our best Co-operatiori. My  delegation would also like to express its sincere thanks to his predecessor  Mr Todorov whose successful stewardship has earned for hini universal admiration.
12.2 Mr President, I also take this opportunity to extend our heartiest  congratulations to the esteemed Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, for  presenting an excellent , comprehensive and valuable report on the activities of  Unesco during the current biennium, together with a general framework for the  biennial programming of activities for 1988-1989. His deep commitment to the  ideals of Unesco and his imaginative leadership have advanced the cause of Unescc;  and strengthened it immensely as an organization.
12.3 Mr President, the world today is confronted with many distressing  paradoxes. In spite of tremendous strides forward made ir1 science and technology,  the elementary problems of hunger, poverty, malnutrition, illiteracy and the  population explosion persist and grow. It confirms the widening and unfortunate  gap between the rich and the poor. In addition, persistent colonial subjugation,  illegal occupation and racial discrimination are affronts to human dignity.
12.4 The twenty-fourth session of the General Conference is taking place at a  crucial time in the history of the Organization which recently celebrated its  fortieth anniversary. The period 1988-1989, constitutes the last biennium of the  second Kedium-Term Plan, and also marks the transition to the third Medium-Terni  Plan. This will bring us to the threshold of the twenty-first century. It  therefore has significance which merits serious consideration. in view of the  futuristic nature of the third Nedium-Term Plan for 1989-1995, my cielegation  feels that the Plan should be flexible in respect of details and that its thrust  should be towards the continuation of studies, identification of methodologies,  evaluation of experience leading to recommendations for the realization of the  high objectives and goals of human society.
12.5 Mr President, global experience in both the developed and developing  worlds has reaffirmed the role of education and cultural development as central  to the realization of national self-reliance and international understanding and  entente. Knowledge is acquired and transmitted by education; culture, on the  other hand, is dependent on creative ability, which in turn is determined by the  content and coverage of education in the society.
12.6 I believe the developing countries often pay most dearly when they  import high technology or finished culture and struggle to integrate them,  without the essential mechanisms for doing so. For the best results,  Mr President, education and culture should be developed in accordance with the  hopes and aspirations of the people and on the basis of a nation's own  socio-cultural heritage and background. Unesco as an organization can help  through its various programnies and activities within the broad framework of the  third Medium-Term Plan by initiating greater co-operation and exchange of  experience among all countries.
12.7 We support Major Programme I in its entireriy. We attach great importance  to the study of the problems of the contemporary world for creating a greater  awareness of the common destiny and intellectual reflection to identify the main  trenas likely to affect the development of societies of future decades. We  strongly support Major Programme II (Education for all) and the Plan of Action  for the eradication of illiteracy by the Year 2000. My Government expresses its  deep satisfaction at the launching of APPEAL.
12.8 Mr President, Bangladesh entered the third cycle of planned development
591    in 1985 for a period of five years. The plan attaches the highest priority to  education, with particular emphasis on primary education. There is a massive  ongoing Universary Primary Education Programme which aims at enrolling -and  retaining 70 per cent of primary school age children by 1990. Special measures  are being taken to increase female participation in primary education.
12.9 Along with the efforts to universalize primary education, a literacy  programme with-a modest target was launched recently. It aims at increasing the  rate of literacy from its existing level of 30 per cent to 60 per cent by the  turn of the century. Implementation of the programme would also help to establish  a viable institutional framework for future literacy programmes.
12.10 Mr President, the other objectives of the Third Five Year Pian are to  improve and, diversify curricula at all levels, with special emphasis on skill  development, to expand and improve the quality of science education at the  secondary level, to expand and strengthen the technical education system to meet  the requirements of technicians and skilled workers, to improve the quality of  higher education and to expand applied science, technology, engineering and  medicine to meet the future high-level manpower requirements of the country, to  democratize educatioh by reducing existing gaps between rural and urban areas,  social classes and male and female enrolments, to improve and intensify the  training of teachers, to improve the quality of management and the supervision of  educational institutions through effective long- and short-term in-service  training programmes, and to improve the quality of education through a continuous  process of institutional evaluation, curriculum review and research.
12.11 The Third Plan has therefore set its objective not only on the  development of physical fácilities but also on making education meaningful in the  context both of the iriüividual and of society. Currently, a National Education  Commission is working to identify gaps in the education system that need to be  bridged immediately. There has been a persistent concern for qualitative  improvement along with quantitative development and social justice in education.
12.12 Science and technology continue to play a pivotal role in development  efforts in this modern world. The Bangladesh Government attaches great importance  to Major Programmes IX and X which deal with the relationship between science,  technology and society and the effect of scientific progress on the peaceful  development of society. The whole of Programme X.2 has our full support - the  assessment and prediction Gf natural hazards and the mitigation of the risks  arising from them. Bangladesh would welcome consultations, the exchange of  knowledge and information and Scientific collaboration with Unesco in this  regard. We are also keenly interested in Programme X.3, Water resources,  particularly where the training of specialists is concerned.
12.13 Mr President, allow me to digress to a subject that overwhelmed my  country besides eliciting instant concern, sympathy and co-operation from the  international community. We are, indeed, grateful to all friendly countries,  international agencies and organizations for their essential support to  Bangladesh in overcoming the colossal destruction and damage caused by recent  floods. The worst natural disaster in the last 40 years has caused the death of  more than 1,000 people and damaged crops and pr-operty worth $1 billion. What is  worrying is the destruction of thousands of primary schools and educational  institutions in the country which will have a far-reaching impact in impeding the  education of children and youth in Bangladesh. My country will welcome Unesco's  valuable participation in the reconstruction of these educational institutions.
12.14 Mr President, we in Bangladesh are also trying to harness scientific and  technological tools for development needs. Our programme in this regard aims at  developing indigenous technology. It .has also become necessary to step up  operational research to increase the productivity and efficiency of existing  industries.
12.15 In order to enable our younger generation to have access to basic  scientific knowledge and to inculcate in them a scientific attitude, a  comprehensive science education project has been started for secondary school  students. Another important project, although on a smaller scale, is a community  school project which seeks to enable high-school drqpouts and out-of-school youth  in the rural areas to acquire saleable skills. FÒr a clevelopinq country with  limited employment opportunities, the project may be viewed as of great  significance.
12.16 Mr President, there is an extensive infrastructure of technical  education facilities and programmes in Bangladesh. The primary objective of this  system is to provide skilled manpower for the growing industrial and agricultural  activities of the country.
12.17 The Bangladesh delegation welcomes the launching of the World Decade for  Cultural Development (1988-1997) in 1988. The Decade should encourage, Support,  monitor and recommend a faster growth of culture as identifying different people  in the world. We recommend that a greater role should be played by the National  Commissions and.internationa1 scholastic organizations.
12.18 Bangladesh is receiving modest but valuable assistance in the cultural  fieia for the preservation of important ancient monuments of the country. A  Master Plan for the conservation of the ruins of the Buddhist Vihara at Paharpur  and the historic Mosque city of Bagerhat was prepared with the assistance of  Unesco. These two groups of monuments were included in the World Heritage List in  December 1985. Unesco is now providing useful assistance in holding the  International Working Group meetings and providing grants for the implementation  of a part of the project. We are deeply grateful to Unesco for giving us such  valuable assistance. Bangladesh has a rich cultural heritage, much of which is  dwindling with the passage of time and for lack of the resources needed for  restoration work. Unesco may consider providing increased resources for the  preservation of this cultural heritage.
12.19 Mr President, distinguished delegates, the mass media constitute one of  the most effective instruments of development. Unesco programmes for the  development of communication in the Third World countries have received the full  support and co-operation of Bangladesh. It is now fully recognized that  communication is crucial for accelerating social, econoniic, political and  cultural development. But the communication instruments of the developing  countries suffer from technological deficiencies as well as domination by the  rich countries.
12.20 My delegation feels encouraged that the draft programme and budget  offers member countries the opportunity to participate in Unesco programmes in  this field during 1988-1989.
12.21 I would like to mention here that we have proposed two projects, namely  the establishment of printirig plant for Dainik Barta and BSS computerized news  service to be implemented under the Internatonal Programme for the Development of  Communication (IPDC). In the past, we have received valuable support from Unesco  in our endeavour to implement our development programmes. We are looking forward  to receiving similar support and co-operation for the above two projects from  Unesco to implement our programmes and policies under the Third Five-Year Plan.
12.22 Mr President, my delegation fully supports decentralization. The second  Medium-Term Plan approved at the fourth extraordinary session of the General  Conference envisaged wide-ranging decentralization of the programme activities of  the Organization, involving at the same time the establishment of new units away  from Headquarters. In this connection, my delegation expresses the strong plea ot  Bangladesh for the establishment of a subregional office in Dhaka. I would like  to draw your attention, Mr President, to Recommendation No. 11 adopted by the  Fifth Regional Conference of Ministers of Education and Those Responsible for  Economic Planning iií Asia and the Pacific held in Bangkok in March, 1985. We hope  that, with the improved financial situation, Unesco will take appropriate steps  on a priority basis for the establishment of a viable subregional office in  Dhaka.
12.23 Bangladesh, Mr President, is also very keen to raise the socio-economic  status of women by involving them in different national reconstruction  activities. My delegation supports Major Programme XIV (The status of women) and  I can assure you, Mr President, that we shall co-operate with Unesco to the full  in the execution of the different programme activities envisaged in the draft  programme in this regard.
12.24 As I conclude, Mr President, I would like, on behalf of my delegation,  to pledge our total commitment to preserve and promote the lofty ideals and  objectives of Unesco. We reiterate our confidence in the Organization. We believe  that a stronger Unesco will emerge as a result of more effective and active  co-operation of its Member States for the welfare and benefit of humanity as a  whole. I thank you, Mr President.
13. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the Bangladeshi delegation for his statement and I  give the floor to H.E. Mr Zainoul Abidine Sanoussi, Minister of Information and  Culture and head of the delegation of Guinea.
14.1 M. SANOUSSI (Guinée) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président  du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur general, honorables delegues,  Mesdames, Messieurs, c'est 6 la fois un privilege et un grand honneur pour moi
593    de prendre la parole à cette tribune pour transmettre à cette assemblée presti-  gieuse le message d'amitié, de fraternité, de solidarité et de paix de S. Exc.  M. le Président Lansana Conte, du peuple et du gouvernement de la République de  Guinée. Vous me permettrez, Monsieur le Président, d'associer ma voix à Celles  de mes prédécesseurs pour féliciter tres chaleureusement M. Putzeys Alvarez à  l'occasion de sa brillante élection à la présidence de la vingt-quatrième ses-  sion de la Conference générale. Ses eminentes qualités de diplomate lui permet-  tront, nous n'en doutons pas, de mener avec efficacité nos travaux 6 leur terme,  malgré leur complexité et l'atmosphère de tension qui se développe autour de  notre Organisation au moment où nous nous apprêtons à prendre des décisions  capitales pour son devenir. En lui, je voudrais saluer aussi le représentant  d'un continent auquel tout nous lie, et aussi le représentant d'un tiers monde  qui veut faire entendre sa voix.
14.2 Je voudrais féliciter aussi tres sincèrement M. Nikolai Todorov pour le  bel exemple de sérénité, de droiture et d'élégance intellectuelle qu'il a Su  donner à Sofia. Le souvenir que nous garderons de vous, Monsieur Todorov, c'est  non seulement votre sens de la conciliation, mais aussi et surtout votre parler  franc, direct et courtois qui aura marqué votre passage à la tete de nos  instances.
14.3 Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, nous connaissons les diffi-  cultés auxquelles le Conseil a été confronte lors de ses dernières sessions. Sans  votre sagesse inspirée par votre souci constant de tolerance et d'acceptation  des différences, les résultats dont vous pouvez légitimement vous enorgueillir  n'auraient pas pu être atteints.
14.4 Je voudrais, Monsieur le Président, rendre un hommage tout particulier  au Directeur général, M. Amadou-Mahtar M'BOW, pour l'immense travail qu'il a  accompli à la tête de l'organisation et cela, malgré les très grandes difficultés  qui viennent de jalonner son deuxième mandat et aussi les attaques partiales et  injustes dont il a été l'objet. Son courage, sa détermination et surtout son  sens de la dignité dans cette épreuve font la fierté du continent, du tiers  monde dont il est issu, et de toute la communauté internationale d'éducateurs,  de scientifiques, d'intellectuels et d'artistes, par-delà les clivages de toute  nature.
14.5 Honorables délégués, la République de Guinée tient à marquer solennel-  lement ici son adhésion à l'esprit du multilatéralisme qui permet aux nations du  monde de coopérer de manière plus équitable à un meilleur partage des responsa-  bilités et des devoirs, sa foi en l'Unesco, sa fidélité à son Acte constitutif  dans sa forme actuelle, son attachement surtout à l'égalité souveraine de tous  les Etats membres, égalité qui garantit le fonctionnement démocratique des ins-  titutions multilatérales dont il nous paraît indispensable de maintenir l'intan-  gibilité. La République de Guinée entreprendra tout ce qui est en son pouvoir,  principalement par le dialogue, pour contribuer le plus possible à maintenir la  cohésion interne de notre Organisation et à lui redonner son caractère universel,  en oeuvrant au retour des trois pays qui l'ont quittée et en agissant de telle  manière que tous ses membres puissent se donner une main fraternelle, malgré les  différences de tous ordres qui, loin de constituer des barrières, sont autant de  sources d'enrichissement mutuel. C'est le lieu de rendre hommage 6 tous les pays  qui orientent leurs efforts dans cette direction et au tout premier chef au pays  hôte, la France, dont nous suivons avec grand intérêt les nombreuses et patientes  demarches dans ce sens.
14.6 Monsieur le Président, tout en donnant l'appui de ma délégation au  Projet de programme et de budget pour l'exercice 1988-1989, je voudrais formuler  quelques observations sur les programmes qui ont retenu particulièrement notre  attention. Tout d'abord, nous tenons à souligner notre satisfaction devant  l'amélioration de la présentation du document 24 C/5, pour laquelle il a été  tenu rigoureusement compte des recommandations formulées par la Conférence géné-  rale à Sofia et par le Conseil exécutif à différentes sessions.
14.7 Le grand programme I constitue la base fondamentale de la réflexion qui  précède notre action. I1 nous paraît en effet difficile de procéder 6 une plani-  fication rigoureuse sur uae période sexennale dans des domaines aussi Variés et  complexes que ceux de l'éducation, des sciences exactes et sociales, de la  culture et de la communication, sans consulter préalablement les spécialistes,  les chercheurs, les éducateurs, les écrivains, les artistes, les ONG et les  décideurs gouvernementaux, afin d'identifier et de circonscrire les problèmes  auxquels nos sociétés sont confrontées, pour ce qui est, cela va de soi, des  domaines de compétence de l'Unesco.
14.8 Dans le domaine de l'éducation, les activités inscrites aux grands  programmes II, IV et V coïncident avec les objectifs fixés dans la réforme du  système éducatif guinéen entreprise depuis trois ans. Cette réforme, comme ces
18  trois grands programmes, accorde une priorité à la généralisation de l'enseigne-  ment Primaire, à l'alphabétisation et au développernent de l'enseignement tech-  nique et professionnel, clés de voûte du décollage économique des pays en  développement.
14.9 De la même façon, nous appuyons le grand programme III. Mais la, force  nous est de reconnaître, que les pays en développernent sont aux prises, en  matière de communication, avec des problèmes aigus d'équipement et d'infrastruc-  ture ; si l'on parvenait à leur apporter des solutions efficaces dans le cadre  du PIDC, cela contribuerait partiellement 6 corriger le déséquilibre entre pays  du Nord et pays du Sud. Dans ce domaine, l'une des priorités de la République de  Guinée est la mise en place de stations de radiodiffusion rurales afin d'élargir  les horizons des couches les plus défavorisées de nos populations sur le plan  scientifique, technique et technologique. Nous lançons un appel à l'Unesco et  aux pays donateurs du PIDC pour qu'ils nous aident a trouver un financement pour  ce Projet. S'agissant toujours du grand programme III, nous voudrions cependant  souligner que la priorité a donner aux équipements et aux infrastructures dans  le cadre du PIDC ne doit pas entraîner l'abandon des etudes en matière de commu-  nication, car cela reviendrait pour l'Unesco à renoncer a une partie importante  de sa mission intellectuelle.
14.10 Dans le même ordre d'idées, il serait souhaitable de renforcer le con-  tenu du grand programme VI11 qui, à notre avis, est celui qui offre à l'Unesco  les meilleures possibilités de donner toute leur place aux différents paramètres  capables de stimuler le développement dans son interaction avec les domaines de  compétence de l'organisation.
14.11 Honorables délégués, la reconnaissance des identités culturelles est  l'une des conquêtes les plus importantes de l'Unesco. C'est pourquoi le grand  programme XI retient tout spécialement notre attention. En effet, les peuples  qui ont accédé a la souveraineté nationale longtemps après la création de  l'Unesco y trouvent des activités concourant à l'épanouissement de leurs  cultures. L'appendice spécial consacré à la Décennie mondiale du développernent  culturel qui va être lancée par les Nations Unies conférera une nouvelle dimen-  sion aux activités de ce grand programme.
14.12 Monsieur le Président, la République de Guinée, pays riverain de  l'Atlantique, château d'eau, source des grands fleuves de l'Ouest africain, pays  s'ouvrant aux nouvelles technologies pour son décollage économique, voudrait  souligner l'importance des grands comités et commissions, aux activités des-  quelles elle souhaiterait prendre une part plus grande. I1 s'agit de la Commis-  sion océanographique intergouvernementale, du Programme hydrologique internatio-  nal, du Programme intergouvernemental d'informatique, du Comité du patrimoine  mondial et du PIDC. Ce sont là des activités qui ne sont pas souvent citées,  mais qui, de manière assez concrete et pragmatique, sont à même de favoriser une  coopération fructueuse entre pays industrialisés et pays en développement au  sein de l'organisation. I1 en va de meme des activités générales du programme  qui ne semblent pas connaître le développernent qu'elles méritent dans les pays  africains : droit d'auteur, statistiques, publications ainsi que la coopération  avec les organisations non gouvernementales et les commissions nationales.
14.13 Pour ce qui est des commissions nationales, nous pensons que leur  apport, dans la situation actuelle de l'Organisation, peut être considérable. En  plus de leur fonction première de courroie de transmission entre les gouverne-  ments et le Siège, elles doivent jouer un rôle beaucoup plus considérable dans  la coopération entre les Etats membres en ce qui concerne la conception et la  mise en oeuvre des programmes ainsi que dans les négociations devant mener aux  élections a tous les niveaux. En exerçant un tel rôle tout au long de l'exercice  biennal, elles contribueraient a aplanir nombre de difficultés aussi bien sur  les parties contreversées des programmes que sur les choix fondamentaux avant  les grandes échéances. Au cours de l'exercice écoulé, la Commission nationale  guinéenne pour l'Unesco a pris des initiatives dans ce sens. Ainsi elle a  accueilli les secrétaires généraux des commissions de l'Union des républiques  socialistes soviétiques et de la France. Elle s'est aussi rendue dans les pays  nordiques. En 1988-1989, elle accueillera le Ghana et invitera une dizaine de  pays d'Afrique et d'autres continents. Elle voudrait saisir cette occasion pour  remercier très chaleureusement les commissions nationales des pays nordiques  pour leur accueil et celles de l'Italie et de l'Union soviétique pour les invi-  tations qu'elles lui ont lancées.
14.14 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais rapidement, compte tenu du temps  qu'il me reste, dire un mot sur le troisième Plan à moyen terme, dans lequel les  grandes orientations du deuxième Plan doivent être maintenues, et sur les grands  programmes XII et XIII. Ces deux grands programmes, malgré les réserves formu-  lées par certaines délégations, ne doivent pas susciter la méfiance. Ce n'est  pas parce que nous avons triomphé ensemble du nazisme et du fascisme engendrés
595    tous deux par une certaine philosophie et une certaine forme d'éducation au cours  du cycle le plus tragique de l'histoire de l'humanité et dont la seule évocation  provoque encore la frayeur, que nous ne devons pas, au sein de l'Unesco - orga-  nisation internationale conçue par ses fondateurs pour l'instauration, le ren-  forcement et le maintien de la paix - continuer à aiguiser notre vigilance à  l'égard des nouveaux spectres, d'où qu'ils viennent, susceptibles de favoriser  un climat de haine, d'intolérance et de racisme et de compromettre la paix. Si  nous éliminons ces préoccupations des programmes de l'Unesco, nous pensons  qu'elle n'aura plus sa raison d'être. I1 est vrai que les débats autour de ces  problèmes devraient, dans un souci de sérénité et d'efficacité, être débarrassés  de tout aspect passionnel. I1 est tout aussi vrai que, quand nous abordons ces  problèmes dans les instances de l'Unesco, nous devons nous astreindre à le faire  dans les limites strictes des compétences qui lui sont dévolues.
14.15 Les questions que nous devons nous poser sont, à mon avis, les Sui-  vantes : que peuvent l'éducation, les sciences exactes et sociales, les contacts  de civilisations, les énormes moyens de communication pour la création d'une  atmosphère de compréhension entre les peuples, pour éliminer les préjugés, en un  mot pour élever les défenses de la paix dans l'esprit des hommes ? Comment y  procéder ? Posé en ces termes, le débat sur ces questions peut, certes, etre  sous-tendu par les différentes politiques mises en oeuvre par nos gouvernements  face à ces problèmes, mais il ne sera politisé que si nous, les représentants  des Etats membres, nous en décidons ainsi par les résolutions que nous formulons,  que nous adoptons ou rejetons et par la manière dont nous discutons de celles-ci.
14.16 Dès lors, il me paraît absolument injuste d'accuser le Directeur géné-  ral de politisation. On a souvent tendance 6 oublier que l'Unesco est une orga-  nisation intergouvernementale. Et qui dit gouvernement dit politique de gouver-  nement. I1 n'est qu'à lire la liste des orateurs pour le débat en séance  plénière, l'instance de décision la plus importante de l'Organisation. I1 est en  effet rare de voir à cette tribune un chercheur, un savant, un éducateur, un  homme de culture, un artiste intervenir en tant que tel sans fonction politique,  généralement au niveau ministériel. On a aussi tendance à oublier qu'un Directeur  général, quelle que soit l'envergure de sa personnalité, n'est qu'un fonc-  tionnaire, le plus haut de l'organisation certes, mais tout de même un fonc-  tionnaire dont le rôle consiste principalement à appliquer les décisions que  nous, Etats membres, adoptons à l'issue de débats dont il nous appartient seuls  de déterminer la forme et le caractère, et 5 rendre compte de cette ppplication.  Nous ne pensons pas que le nouveau Directeur général que nous allons élire  demain puisse agir autrement.
14.17 Les attaques portées sur la gestion m'inspirent un sentiment analogu?.  Elu en 1974, l'actuel Directeur général a été réélu à l'unanimité en 1980, apres  six années de gestion qui.lui ont valu les qualificatifs les plus élogieux.  Moins de deux ans après cette réélection, comme par un phénomène de génération  spontanée, les critiques les plus acerbes affluaient contre la gestion, le fonc-  tionnement et même les structures de l'Organisation. Et depuis, le débat est  volontairement escamoté. Un débat paradoxalement sans chiffres alors qu'il  touche à un problème de gestion budgétaire - un débat qui n'est pas sans rap-  peler "l'histoire de la dent d'or" reprise au XVIIIe siècle. Aussi, Monsieur le  Président, honorables délégués, m'en voudrais-je de terminer cette intervention  sans vous dire qu'une reconnaissance officielle, devant la communauté inter-  nationale, de l'immense oeuvre accomplie par le Directeur général sortant nous  grandirait du plus profond de notre conscience, nous les représentants des Etats  membres, et permettrait à son successeur d'aborder sa mission avec plus d'ai-  sance, dans la quiétude. Je vous remercie.
15. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Guinea for his statement and I  give the floor to H.E. Mr Mayanja Nkangi, Minister of Education and head of the  delegation of Uganda.
16.1 Mr NKANGI (Uganda) :  Mr President, Mr Representative of the Director-General, Mr Chairman of  the Executive Board, distinguished heaac of delegations, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, I must concede, Mr President, that it is rather late in the day for my  delegation to congratulate Mr Putzeys Alvarez on his electoral success. But we  had to be seen in order to be heard, and this is our first formal opportunity. We  congratulate him most sincerely on a splendid achievement. We are deeply indebted  to Mr Todorov, his immediate predecessor, who conducted the affairs of the  twenty-thirä General Conference session with such decorum and distinction.
16.2 Mr President, Sir, I know that a special occasion has been set aside for  paying tribute to the Director-General. But I crave your indulgence to let me say  a word or two while the opportunity offers itself. The Director-General may not  have met the wishes of every individual, of every State; and he knows it. But
18  which great administrator ever did or ever does? He had to proceed by vision and  choice among competing alernatives. Is rejection not of the very nature of  choice, and compromise not part of consensus? We believe that a body with such  varied membership as Unesco calls both for choice - which is a requirement for  effective leadership - and consensus, which is the basis for collective progress  and international comity. If the Director-General in his position, had sought to  espouse every stance and opinion, it would have spelt a state of awful inaction.  The only valid requirement is whether or not, in his period of office, he has  been faithful to the Charter of the United Nations, the obligations of Unesco,  and the dictates of good conscience. And the bar of history will surely judge  that. As for my delegation, we recognize in him a great international public  servant. We hope that his successor will bring to this eminent office the  appropriate qualities of leadership, fair play, conscientiousness, and rectitude.
16.3 Mr President, Sir, an occasion such as the present one, when nations  assemble for collective endeavour and mutual benefit, should be an occasion for  reflection and renewed determination to preserve this Organization and to promote  the objectives for which it was founded. Uganda continues to value her membership  of Unesco, and would urge all nations to give this Organization the necessary  support so as to enable it to function effectively. We are aware of the problems  which are facing it, but solutions to them can better be sought through  collective dialogue and decision in the spirit of lasting international  brotherhood. We nust feel together, think together, move together, and plan  together. On this solidarity depends our success, both as individual States, and  as the community of nations which is Unesco. My delegation therefore appeals to  all those countries which need not stay away from this Organization - and,  Mr President, hardly any country need stay away - to join or rejoin Unesco. For  Unesco is so essential for world progress.
16.4 Mr President, we have before us, for consideration document 24 C/5, the  Draft Programme and Budget for 1988-1989. My delegation has studied this document  with care and responsibility. We are in general agreement with the rationale on  which it is based. More specifically, we recognize the constraints imposed by  necessity on the budgetary allocations, and the administrative inconveniences  which are bound to result from 'zero-growth' budgeting. But, as already  indicated, we generslly accept the principles and considerations behind the  proposals. I am referring, rriore particularly, to the overriding need to  anticipate and provide for net changes and fluctuations both in foreign exchange  rates and the expected rate of inflation. Speculative fluctuations in foreign  exchange rates tend to be offset over time. But, where the net adverse effects on  the budgetary provisions are persistent, perhaps a change of the currency or  currencies in which Unesco mainly holds its funds could be entertained.  Furthermore, since in principle if not in practice net adverse changes in both  the expected rate of inflation and the foreign exchange rates are foreseeable and  therefore reasonably determinable in advance, one wonders whether or not their  effects on the budget provisions do not constitute an insurable risk against  which Unesco might cushion itself by insurance. This would be a safer way of  tackling the problem of unforeseen reductions in the value of Unesco's currency  holdings than, for instance, seeking to engage in currency 'futures', which is a  possible option. Perhaps no insurance institution would touch such risk. On  balance, however, the device of an Appropriation Reserve is the better orle in the  circumstances, assuming that Unesco starts from a sound financial position.
16.5 Mr President, Sir, I am sure that by now you have realized that I am  angling for ways to avoid any suggestion that Member States as a whole should pay  increased contributions. My delegation would find it difficult to accept this  because of the economic condition, albeit a temporary one, in which my country  finds itself. This situation cannot be improved upon when it is realized that, in  any case, the national currencies of most States, as a rule, depreciate rather  than appreciate in terms of the major currencies, and so Unesco's problem is  intimately our own problem. Alas! How can Unesco loosen the fetters of  'zero-growth'? Let me at this juncture express my delegation's satisfaction with  the Director-General's efforts at retrenchment and administrative reform. But  what if there is ar1 almost crippling deficit facing the Organization? Well,  Unesco was set up for purposes which have yet to be attained: the whole of the  United Nations must rally and render the Organization solvent by making good the  deficit. In this case Uganda would appeal to those sister countries, both within  arid without Unesco, which are best placed to assist. For example, countries that  enjoy persistent appreciation of their national currencies against the operating  currencies of Unesco, since the burden of their indebtedness to Unesco (by way of  their contributions) is alleviated by currency appreciation; as well as those  countries with a comfortable surplus on the balance of payments. The point is  that, however the deficit might be made good, Unesco must never be permitted to  grind to a halt.
16.6 Let me now, generally and selectively, deal with some provisions of the
597    Draft Programme. My delegation supports Major Programme I because the it  addresses itself to vital global issues which, if not carefully tackled, would  reduce the overall effectiveness of the other Major Programmes. We subscribe to  Major Programme VI11 (Principles, methods and strategies of action for  development) , and the' proposed modalities of implementing it. As for Major  Programme II (Education for all), it is accepted that education is central to  several aspects of human life in every society. Literacy, education, and culture  are interdependent and essential factors for the creation of opportunity, and the  promotion of equity and national progress and yet we in Africa continue to be  besieged by illiteracy and the failure to achieve universal primary education,  and we continue to experience a shortage of high-level trained manpower in  various sectors of national development, especially in the fields of research,  science, and technology. Therefore, while my delegation places great emphasis on  literacy and basic education, we cannot overlook the need to improve and develop  higher education. Hence our strong support for the proposed resolutions for Major  Programmes II, IV and V and their modalities of implementation together with all  Unesco programmes aimed at eradicating illiteracy. Uganda is braced to combat  illiteracy and looks forward to benefiting from the Regional Programme for the  Eradication of Illiteracy in Africa by the year 20pO.
16.7 At the formal education level, studies have been conducted aimed at  gauging the feasibility of introducing universal primary education. The task on  our hands io difficult and enormous and therefore we should appreciate any  assistance in this endeavour.
16.8 We recognize as being essential Unesco's policy for the training of  educational managers, administrators and planners as a key to improving  education. We have conducted courses, seminars and workshops in this area and we  would welcome assistance to strengthen this Programme. Furthermore an Education  Policy Review has recently been set up by my Ministry to review the content and  scope of educational curricula and programmes so as to reconcile them with the  aspirations and needs of our society. We see this as an important landmark in the  educational progress of our country.
16.9 Focus has also been placed on the development of a capability to produce  teaching and learning materials. Uganda has a micro set up of a low-cost  educational equipment production unit. Its expansion, however, to an optimal size  awaits adequate funding. The use of readily available materials will greatly  boost the teaching of mathematics, science and technology in our educational  institutions.
16.10 With regard to Major Programmes VI (The sciences and their application  to development) and IX (Science, technology and society), my delegation is  convinced that the successful implementation of these programmes will grapple  with the scourge of underdevelopment in the developing countries through research  and training in the human and natural sciences. The fundamental significance of  these programmes cannot be overrated. The underdevelopment of our social and  economic fabric greatly hinges on the lack of appropriate technology to exploit  national resources. This is why the training of specialists in biotechnology,  agricultural engineering, medicine, industry and other related sectors are of  special interest to Uganda. Uganda as of now runs a pilot project on biogas as  well as a geothermal project. We hope that these projects will receive Unesco's  support.
16.11 In the field of practical education and employment, efforts are being  made, inter alia, to spread computer literacy in secondary schools.
16.12 Mr President, the war on underdevelopment has to be fought on a broad  front. A scientific and technological culture has to be evolved in our societies,  and that is why my delegation firmly supports the CASTAFRICA conferences. This  programme is very important in view of the restricted and inadequate exchange of  information on the management of science and technology development. CASTAFRICA  should also properly emphasize the role of women in science and technology since  they constitute an invaluable reservoir of human resources.
16.13 Mr President, the environment of man shapes, in part, his progress.  Consequently, my delegation recognizes the developmental importance of Major  Programme X (The human environment and terrestrial and marine resources). My  country has participated in the 'Geology for Economic Development' project,  concerning the evaluation of mineral potential in Africa in the Kibaran  Geotraverse. The findings of this Geotraverse warrant support for follow-up  programmes. The current International Geological Correlation Programme should be  extended to East Africa.
16.14 My delegation would urge Unesco to strengthen the national and regional  research and training programmes under Major Programme X and to extend marine
598    research studies to cover freshwater bodies. Under the International Hydrological  Programme, I hope that the African countries at least which are concerned will  support the resolution we are going to table at this Conference.
16.15 Mr President, the Uganda Government has recently created a Ministry of  Environment Protection in recognition of the importance of the environment to  man.
16.16 With regard to communication in the service of man covered by Major  Programme II, steps should be taken in our view to remove the existing imbalances  in the developing countries by fostering the development of infrastructures, the  training of personnel, and the strengthening of proauction and dissemination  capacities in the Third World. My delegation appeals to Member States,  international governmental and non-governmental organizations, media circles and  other sources of finance which hitherto have not made extra-budgetary  contributions to the International Programme for the Development of Communication  (IPDC) to extend their generosity to this worthy programme. We fully support the  training and recruitment programmes which are meant to promote the role of women  in the communication professions, and we welcome the idea of holding the
21st Congress of the International Association of Women and Home Page Journalists  next year.
16.17 As for Major Programme VI1 (Information systems and access to  knowledge) , there is a need here for wider dissemination of information about  standardization of bibliographical format, backed by the training of key  personnel in information services, especially in the developing couritries.
16.18 Mr President, the activities proposed under Programme IX (Culture and  the future) for safeguarding the cultural heritage are significant. The African  contribution to art, music, and folk dance is notable and ought to be promoted.  We appreciate the efforts of Unesco in promoting the knowledge of cultural  identities and intercultural relations as well as what Unesco is doing to  preserve monuments and historical sites. We take this opportunity to appeal to  all member nations to support this worthy initiative.
16.19 And now, Mr President, we come to pride and prejudice: Programmes XII  and XIII, concerned with prejudice, intolerance, racism, peace, international  understanding and the human rights of the people. We see at the bottom of it all  an amalgam of intolerance, of pride and prejudice as between ethnic communities,  of fear, hatred and conflict - which, in a large measure, are based on cultural  stereotypes. And herein lies the crisis of the politics of our time. A focus on  their linkages would, in our view, reflect Unesco's concern about this bed of  nightmares and perhaps find lasting solutions for them. For this reason my  delegation attaches great importance to these programmes.
16.20 Of notorious significance here, Sir, is the leviathan of apartheid:  ugly, disturbing, mortal. Unanimity exists among the free nations on the  viciousness and undesirability of this system. The free, democratic, and  spiritually alive nations must work tirelessly until this system - this stain -  is removed from the face of the earth.
16.21 Sir, my delegation has already made a number of relevant comments with  reference to all the major programmes where the status of women is highlighted.  We call upon the Director-General to continue the implementation of Ma] or  Programme XIV, which is designed to elevate the status of women in all spheres of  existence.
16.22 So tar so good. But how about the issue of the preparation of the third  Medium-Term Plan? The questionnaire which was sent to my country by the  Director-General regarding this exercise is being studied. Essentially, the  current Medium-Term Plan should dovetail into the third Medium-Term Plan in  conception and content, with operational emphasis being intensified and sustained  in the dissemination of the results of scientific research, technological  improvements and teaching methods.
16.23 Mr President, I would like to thank you and all the distinguished  delegates for your attention.
17. The PRESIDENT:  I tharik the head of the Ugandan delegation for his statement and I give  the floor to Mrs Peltzer, representative of the International Confederation of  Free Trade Unions.
18.1 Mrs PELTZER (International Confederation of Free Trade Unions):  Mr President , ladies arid gentlemen, the International confederation Of  Free Trade Unions unites 85 million working people organized in 145 trade union
599    confederations and federations in all five continents. These unions were formed  by workers who believe in and uphold human rights and particularly the most  fundamental freedoms of speech, association arid assembly. Only on these  íoundations can we contribute to and participate in achieving economic and social  justice. The international free trade union movement with its large membership  from diverse cultural backgrounds is, by its very nature, a movement for  tolerance, understanding-and peace.
18.2 These aims and objectives remain the core of our movement's activities.  We are a long way away from the full respect of human and trade union rights and  global security, a world without conflicts, hunger, poverty and large-scale  unemployment. In addition, we have been experiencing in recent years an  accelerated pace of economic change -and a trend to curtail social rights and  legislation. ICFTU firmly believes that the interdependence of the problems the  world is facing today badly needs a renewal of international co-operation and the  strengthening of the United Nations institutions. It also necessitates an  effective participation on the national and international levels of workers'  organizations..
18.3 It is true that, compared with forty years ago, significant economic and  social progress has been made. More countries have adopted constitutions  providing for democratic participation in the making of laws and in the choice of  government; yet exceptions to the rule remain. There has been progress in the  acceptance of the basic human rights established in the United Nations Charter,  in the JJniversal Declaration of Human Rights, and the Constitution of the  International Labour Organisation, although they continue to -be 'abused in too  niany countries. The idea of access to education for all has developed positively,  even though reality leaves much to be desired. Unesco statistics on the'world  situation of literacy are alarming and provoke the demand for greater efforts  than ever to eradicate illiteracy.
18.4 Recent economic and social trends give rise to a disquieting sense of  insecurity and fear of a further erosion of already indecent living standards for  millions of the world's population. Unemployment in the industrialized countries  rose to staggering levels in the early 1980s and continues today in many  countries. Deepening chronic under-enïployment and widespread poverty persist in  the developing countries and proposed solutions to the present crisis of external  debt seem to be too much of an exercise in economic mathematics and too little of  dri effort to consider the day-to-day plight of the people.
18.5 $he vast majority of workers in the developing world continue to work in  the rural sector, often suffering from chronic food insecurity and facing legal  obstacles to órganizing freely in collective organizatkons to defend their  interests. The severity of conditions of life in the rural sector consequently  forces many workers to emigrate to the towns where the lack of decent job  opportunities, il-literacy and inadequate training provision drives them into  exploitative employment conditions in. the informal sector. An essential  foundation for a more balanced process of development is a major increase in the  availability of educational and training opportunities for the mass of rural  -workers and the workers in informal urban sectors, in order to raise their  earning power and enable them to participate fully in the political system.  Education is closely linked to the realization of basic human rights, such as  freedom of association, which in turn is vital to the creation of democratic  organizations for the promotion and protection of rural workers' interests.
18.6 In 'addition to continued high unemployment and under-employment,  increasing pressures on public finances, de-regulation and privatization,  structural change in employment and industries, the aävance of new technologies  and the growth of the service sector are all having profound effects on the  patterns of society. Diverse phenomena such as the increasing participation of  women, the grqwth of a peripheral workforce, a growing white-collar workers  sector, the reorganization of worktime or the integration of youth into the life  of work, as well as the precarious situation of migrant workers, represent direct  challenges for employers and trade unions; at the sane time they pose wide social  and cultural questions of general concern.
18.7 The danger inherent in this development is a greater frágmentation of  society. This would mean isolation of the knowledgeable and the ignorant, the  skilled and the unskilled, the employed and the jobless, the haves and the  have-nots. Few would benefit from or participate in the production of wealth.  Existing disparities in opportunities and in the quality of life are widening,  resulting in the waste of human recourees and the loss of great potential for  social and cultural benefit. Technological change without the appropriate social  framework could marginalize a great majority of the people. The world community  must be aware of this possibly grave scenario and reverse the present trends by  putting economic planning, science and technology to the service of the people.
18.8 ICFTU will be discussing the wide-ranging implications ,of change at its  forthcoming Congress as a challenge, not as a sombre vision. We would like to  hope that Unesco will consider - in line with its founding precept - the trade  unions concerns when reflecting on world problems in its fields of competence.  It is our view that, in this process of searching for and defining policy, it is  indispensable to be guided by a practical and flexible approach. Of particular  importance is, therefore , educational work; the different levels and sectors of  education and training must be seen as a whole and based on this Organization's  principle of full and equal opportunities for education for all. This is, of  course, not the place and time to deal with the many aspects of the subject.  However, in the light of the changes taking place, it is vital that Unesco step  up its work in the field of education, including adult education, and develop new  and effective strategies, forms of programmes .and educational methods and  techniques to ensure greater opportunities for workers and their families. We  would, in this context, also welcome the strengthening of co-operation between  Unesco and the International Labour Office with a view to promoting workers'  access to education through international standard-setting and technical  assistance programmes.
18.9 Finally, ICFTU wishes to stress that public expenditure in education is  the best investment in development and global security. Education for all and the  exchange or knowledge, in its broadest sense, is the best means to secure the  foundations of a peaceful world. Thank you, Mr President.
19. The PRESIDENT :  Free Trade Unions for her statement.  I thank the representative of the International Confederation of the  (Le Président poursuit en français)  Je donne maintenant la parole à M. Roger Denis, secrétaire général de  la Confédération syndicale mondiale des enseignants.
20.1 M. DENIS (Confederation syndicale mondiale des enseignants) :  Monsieur le Président, au nom de la Confédération syndicale mondiale  des enseignants (CSME), je vous remercie de bien vouloir m'accorder la parole  lors de cette vingt-quatrieme session de la Conference générale de l'Unesco.
20.2 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, la Confédération syndicale  mondiale des enseignants, affiliée à la Confédération mondiale du travail et,  dès lors, renforcée par le sens de la solidarité, est presente dans tous les  continents et plus particulièrement dans les pays en voie de développement. Nous  avons, dans le passé et aujourd'hui encore, insisté sur la nécessité d'une  intensificetion de la collaboration entre les organisations non gouvernementales  et l'Unesco. Nous remercions les membres du Conseil exécutif et le Directeur  général qui ont concrétisé cette demande en accordant, à la 124e session du Con-  seil exécutif, le classement de la Confédération syndicale mondiale des ensei-  gnants dans la catégorie A, celle des organisations non gouvernementales entre-  tenant avec l'Unesco des relations de consultation et d'association. Ainsi est  reconnu le souci de notre Confédération de contribuer à la réalisation des  objectifs fondamentaux de l'Unesco par une participation sincère et effective.  Cette coopération s'exprime entre autres dans les travaux que nous réalisons en  commun avec les trois autres organisations internationales d'enseignants.
20.3 I1 nous reste un souhait à exprimer : la Confédération syndicale mon-  diale des enseignants désire bénéficier des mêmes conditions d'exercice de son  mandat que les autres organisations internationales non gouvernementales afin de  pouvoir coopérer à égalité de droits avec elles aux activités de l'Unesco. Le  Projet de programme et de budget ne prévoit pas l'attribution d'une subvention à  notre Confédération. Nous avons introduit une requête auprès du Directeur général  quant à l'octroi d'une telle subvention. Nous désirons assumer pleinement les  responsabilités inherentes au statut d'organisation non gouvernementale de la  catégorie A.
20.4 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, il nous semble indispen-  sable, en cette assemblée et pour l'opinion publique, pour le moins troublée par  les événements récents qui risquent de ternir l'image de l'Unesco, de rappeler  les missions essentielles de l'Organisation, missions auxquelles nous souscri-  vons : "contribuer à une réflexion continue sur les problèmes du monde actuel de  manière à faire progresser la conscience de la communauté de destin qui unit  désormais les individus comme les peuples", et "contribuer à créer les conditions  de la participation la plus large des individus et des groupes à la vie des  sociétés auxquelles ils appartiennent et à celle de la communauté mondiale".
20.5 Plus particulièrement, comme éducateurs, nous avons déployé notre action  dans les domaines relevant des grands programmes II, IV, XII et XIII. L'éducation  pour tous reste l'objectif primordial des organisations d'enseignants mais nous  devons bien constater que la, lutte contre 1 * analphabétisme, menée avec réalisme  certes, n'a pas encore réussi à créer les conditions élémentaires de la partici-  pation de tous les individus à l'indispensable promotion de la dignité humaine.  Le phénomène de l'analphabétisme fonctionnel nous inquiète : il est aussi l'ex-  pression des carences de nos systèmes d'éducation et le reflet du manque de  volonté politique réelle, sur le terrain, de remédier à ces carences. La démo-  cratisation de l'enseignement semblait pouvoir se réaliser par le biais de  l'éducation polyvalente, découvrant et menant 6 leur réalisation optimale les  capacités de chaque individu. Les réductions drastiques opérées dans les dépenses  d'enseignement n'ont été ni appuyées sur une évaluation correcte des réformes  engagées dans la dernière décennie, ni orientées par la possibilité d'une meil-  leure distribution qualitative des moyens disponibles. Nous sommes également  très préoccupés par la question de l'égalité des chances des jeunes filles et  des femmes en matière d'éducation et par celle du développement de l'éducation  dans les zones rurales.
20.6 La Confédération syndicale mondiale des enseignants est toujours, comme  dans le passé, disposée à collaborer étroitement à la réalisation de ces pro-  grammes : elle est proche des enseignants, elle connaît leurs difficultés, comme  les difficultés de ceux qu'ils fréquentent fraternellement dans leur vie quoti-  dienne : les élèves, les étudiants. C'est pourquoi le grand programme IV retient  tout spécialement notre attention : nous affirmons notre volonté de collaboration  concrète à l'exécution de ce programme, notamment en ce qui concerne la promotion  des politiques de l'éducation, dont l'un des axes essentiels est la 41e session  de la Conférence internationale de l'éducation sur la diversification de l'en-  seignement postsecondaire face à la situation de l'emploi. La Confédération syn-  dicale mondiale des enseignants a diffusé le questionnaire élaboré par le Bureau  international d'éducation a toutes ses organisations : elle contribuera à la  réussite de la Conférence grâce aux études de ses organisations régionales et  nationales.
20.7 Le sous-programme sur la promotion des études et recherches dans les  sciences de l'éducation ainsi que des innovations éducatives coïncide également  avec le champ d'action de la Confédération syndicale mondiale des enseignants.  La régionalisation de ce programme et son aspect prospectif sont des éléments  essentiels de réponse aux défis auxquels les enseignants sont confrontés.
20.8 L'avenir nous importe : il peut susciter l'enthousiasme et l'espoir  dont nous avons besoin et qui sont présents chez chaque enseignant. Voilà pour-  quoi la question des politiques et plans intégrés de formation et de la condi-  tion des personnels de l'éducation qui font l'objet du sous-programme IV.3.1  requièrent, selon nous, une attention particulièrement soutenue.
20.9 La Confédération syndicale mondiale des enseignants a communiqué 6  toutes ses organisations le quatrième questionnaire sur l'application de la  Recommandation concernant la condi-tion du personnel enseignant (Recommandation  conjointe OIT/Unesco de 1966). Elle a également procédé 6 une étude sur l'oppor-  tunité de la rédaction d'une Cqnvention concernant la condition du personnel  enseignant. Je résumerai, ci-apres, les conclusions de cette étude, fondées sur  les avis des organisations affiliées. La Recommandation demeure un instrument de  reference indispensable qu'il est nécessaire de faire encore mieux connaître,  d'analyser et de mettre en oeuvre dans bon nombre de pays. La Recommandation se  révèle cependant inadaptée face 6 l'évolution récente sur les plans culturel,  social et économique : il faudrait, dès lors, envisager son ajustement. Or, la  remise en question du contenu et de la forme de la Recommandation risque d'ouvrir  un débat qui pourrait compromettre des éléments positifs que nos organisations  ne désirent pas voir s'affaiblir ou disparaître. Bien au contraire, toute révi-  sion devrait tendre à un renforcement des dispositio,ns existantes et à l'intro-  duction de mesures plus précises et plus appropriees au contexte scolaire de  notre époque. Le Comité conjoint de l'OIT et de l'Unesco formulait en 1964 l'ob-  servation suivante : "Cependant, le meilleur des instruments ne peut exercer une  influence s'il n'est pas appliqué. Celui-ci, qui est une recommandation, n'impose  pas d'obligations ; les Etats sont invités à se guider sur ses dispositions".  C'est cette dernière observation qui a poussé nos organisations, proches des  enseignants et de leurs problèmes, à souhaiter la rédaction d'une convention sur  la condition du personnel enseignant, étant donné son caractère plus contrai-  gnant, c'est-à-dire, à notre avis, plus respectueux des enseignants et de l'en-  seignement, pour les Etats qui la ratifieront. La convention pourrait, dès lors,  donner l'occasion d'actualiser la Recommandation, sans pour autant l'annuler,  sans être en retrait par rapport à ses dispositions mais en reprenant l'ensemble  des droits et des devoirs qui y figurent, en les affinant et en réaménageant la  structure du texte. I1 appartient 6 l'Unesco de jouer le rôle de promoteur d'une
18  convention. L'Organisation internationale du travail, pour sa part, devrait éga-  lement s'atteler à la tâche afin d'assurer une oeuvre conjointe. La Confédération  syndicale mondiale des enseignants renouvelle sa demande d'être associée à ces  travaux. Elle désire, par ailleurs, également apporter son concours à l'amélio-  ration de la formation initiale et continue des personnels de l'éducation.
20.10 Les quatre organisations internationales d'enseignants ont élaboré un  document commun relatif au fonctionnement du Bureau international d'éducation et  à ses objectifs. Nous insistons sur l'engagement pris par les quatre organisa-  tions d'oeuvrer & l'efficacité de la Conférence internationale de l'éducation et  des activités du Bureau international d'éducation. En effet, les questions  d'éducation dans le monde, sous quelque forme que ce soit, connaissent aujour-  d'hui un retentissement sans précédent dans l'histoire. I1 faut donc approfondir  et élargir l'influence du Bureau international d'éducation en tant que centre  international de ressources documentaires, de synthèse et d'études comparées au  service de tous les pays. Ici, encore, il nous semble indispensable que les  organisations d'enseignants soient associées aux travaux relatifs à l'évolution  du Bureau international d'éducation.
20.11 Nous osons espérer qu'il n'est pas nécessaire de préciser que nous  n'avons ici mis l'accent que sur certaines préoccupations. Le Congrès mondial de  la Confédération syndicale mondiale des enseignants, organisé à Nuremberg au  mois d'octobre 1985, a permis la rédaction de résolutions nombreuses qui tra-  duisent les aspirations fondamentales des enseignants : le rôle du syndicalisme  enseignant dans une societe en mutation, les nouvelles technologies dans l'édu-  cation, la paix, les droits syndicaux, la crise et la dette extérieure dans les  pays en voie de développement.
20.12 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, la coopération étroite,  sur la base de l'égalité en droits, des quatre organisations internationales  d'enseignants est le gage d'une réelle promotion des enseignants et de l'éduca-  tion dans le monde. La collaboration étroite avec l'Unesco et le Bureau inter-  national d'éducation doivent nous permettre, au-delà des divisions, des nuances  et des écarts possibles, de chercher et de trouver les convergences indispen-  sables pour résoudre les problèmes dont souffre l'humanité. Chacun d'entre nous  est chargé de richesses, de gloire, d'espérances fondées. Chacun d'entre nous,  dans l'humilité et avec force, doit parler le langage du coeur et trouver les  solutions imposées par la raison. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le President.
21. Le PRESIDENT :  des enseignants.  Je remercie le Secrétaire général de la Confédération syndicale mondiale  (The President continued in English)  And I now give the floor to the representative of the International  Council of B'nai B'rith, Mr Hoffenberg.
22.1 M. S. HOFFENBERG (Conseil international du B'nai B'rith) :  Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les Ministres, Messieurs les Ambassa-  deurs, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, je vous remercie de donner à notre  organisation la possibilité de s'exprimer devant cette haute Assemblée. J'aime-  rais souligner l'évolution positive du Secrétariat dans le sens de l'amélioration  de la collaboration avec les ONG, avec lesquelles nous entretenons d'amicales  relations de travail. Je voudrais aussi remercier le Directeur général pour le  concours apporte à certaines de nos actions et pour les encouragements que nous  avons reçus du Secrétariat.
22.2 En effet, dans le cadre de la Convention concernant la protection du  patrimoine mondial culturel et naturel, nous avons pu, grâce au soutien de  l'Unesco, écarter les menaces qui pesaient sur la préservation du site  d'Auschwitz-Birkenau, camps d'extermination des Juifs. Vous avez écrit, Monsieur  le Directeur general, "qu'il s'agit d'un lieu témoin de l'une des périodes les  plus tragiques et les plus sinistres de l'histoire de l'humanité" et qui "garce  une signification universelle". C'est grâce à l'Unesco et à 1'Icomos qu'un accord  a pu être conclu pour la preservation de ce site dans son état actuel. La réali-  sation de cet accord a été rendue possible aussi grâce au courage de plusieurs  cardinaux et à la bonne compréhension du nonce apostolique auprès de l'Unesco  auquel je rends hommage. L'Unesco, forte de l'expérience des problèmes posés par  la protection du patrimoine culturel, devrait élaborer une meilleure méthode de  surveillance, en collaboration avec des ONG.
22.3 C'est aussi dans ces lieux à Paris que se réunit depuis quatre ans un  groupe de travail de onze ONG qui se préoccupe de la protection de l'enfant dans  les conflits armés. Nous nous réunissons avec les représentants du Secrétariat
603    pour apporter une solution à ce drame. Une étude est en cours qui permettra  d'entreprendre une action de sensibilisation aux conséquences désastreuses de  ces conflits pour les enfants et pour la société. Le Secrétariat a inscrit cette  activité dans le grand programme XII1 au paragraphe 13306 et une réunion d'ex-  perts est prévue en 1988 pour formuler des propositions sur les actions éduca-  tives et d'information à mener à cet égard. Afin de pouvoir poursuivre les  recherches et sensibiliser l'opinion publique, le groupe des ONG organise un  gala sous le patronage de la Princesse Caroline de Monaco et je me permets!  Excellences, de vous convier cordialement gassister à ce gala qui se tiendra a  la Salle Pleyel, le mardi 17 novembre prochain, à 20 h.45.
22.4 Dans le cadre du 850e anniversaire de la naissance du philosophe  Maïmonide, un colloqye marquant a été organisé à l'Unesco. Le cheminement de la  Pensée humaniste de Maïmonide dans les pays entourant la Méditerranée a été  évoqué pendant plusieurs jours et l'osmose d'idées entre le monde islamique, le  monde chrétien et la pensée juive a été analysée. Les actes de ce colloque ?nt  été édités et il serait souhaitable que cet échange extraordinaire de pensees  soit largement diffusé. Je me permets de rappeler que d'éminents universitaires  du Caire, de Jérusalem, d'Alger, de Paris, de MOSCOU, de New York et du Koweït  s'y sont exprimés.
22.5 Dans le même ordre d'idées, une série de rencontres est organisée par  le Conseil de l'Europe pour développer les relations entre les différentes  cultures européennes. I1 serait profitable pour l'approfondissement de ces études  que l'Unesco s'associe au programme envisagé par le Conseil de l'Europe.
22.6 Les relations de l'Unesco avec les organisations internationales pro-  gressent favorablement. L'expérience des dernières années prouve que l'on pour-  rait éviter certains écueils si nous, les ONG, étions associées à l'élaboration  des Programmes au tout début de leur conception. La plus large ouverture des  gouvernements aux ONG à laquelle on assiste actuellement - comme en témoigne une  plus grande liberté d'établissement dans les pays - ouvre de meilleures perspec-  tives à la collaboration internationale.
22.7 Je voudrais me permettre d'exprimer quelques souhaits allant dans le  sens de l'amélioration des actions de l'Unesco afin qu'elle puisse affirmer sa  vocation historique et s'adapter à l'évolution du monde. Nous assistons en effet  à une nouvelle mobilité des hommes et à une migration résultant, d'une part,  d'une augmentation du nombre des réfugiés en raison des conflits armés et,  d'autre part, de l'accroissement de l'émigration des populations pour des raisons  économiques et sous l'effet d'une pression démographique accrue. Ces modifica-  tions pourraient créer dans les pays librement accessibles des tensions inter-  ethniques qu'il faudrait essayer de prévenir. Car, alors que nous prônons - oh  combien avec raison - la nécessité de la conservation de la spécificité cultu-  relle de chaque groupe ethnique, le programme ne contient malheureusement aucune  action spécifiquement destinée à faciliter l'insertion des immigrés dans la  société environnante. Cette integration devrait être soigneusement préparée pour  éviter toute situation d'intolérance, tout en veillant à la préservation de  l'identité culturelle d'origine. I1 faut prendre soin que la nouvelle situation  "d'immigré" n'entraîne pas une rupture avec la famille et le passé. L'acquisition  de l'aptitude à s'intégrer dans le nouvel environnement devrait s'effectuer avec  précaution. Sans une intégration libérale et humaniste, le risque est grand de  voir grossir les rangs des intégristes religieux d'une part et des extremistes  anarchisants de l'autre. C'est pourquoi nous sommes persuadés qu'il est urgent  d'inscrire dans le cadre du programme XII des actions d'éducation permettant que  l'insertion des immigrés se fasse sans douleur.
22.8 Dans le même programme XII, il faudrait insérer l'étude d'une nouvelle  forme de discrimination raciale qui se développe dans plusieurs pays. SOUS le  nom pseudo-scientifique de "révisionnisme historique", une idéologie de haine  raciale est prônée, qui nie le génocide accompli par les hitlériens sous l'ap-  pellation cynique de "solution finale". Ces courants xénophobes et antisémites  essaient - après la négation des "chambres à gaz" - de falsifier l'histoire de  la dernière guerre et, surtout, de banaliser la responsabilité des nazis. Pour  nous, rescapés des camps et pour les familles des victimes "il existe, comme le  dit Moses Hess dans 'Rome et Jérusalem', des liens mystérieux entre la mort et  les vivants. Les Parques qui coupent le fil de la vie ne peuvent rien contre les  liens spirituels qui unissent les âmes soeurs dans le temps et dans l'éternité".  Nous nous permettons de recommander à l'Unesco de diffuser un guide pratique  pour les éducateurs afin de prévenir ce nouveau fléau et de recommander, par la  suite, aux gouvernements l'adoption d'une législation qui poursuivrait tous ceux  qui propageraient des idées néo-nazies et nieraient les faits patents et reconnus  par les historiens, les tribunaux et le monde scientifique. La dernière Confé-  rence des ONG de juin 1986 a vigoureusement condamné les opinions émises dans la  thèse d'un universitaire inspiré par l'idéologie de négation du génocide des
18  Juifs et le ministre délégué aux universités du gouvernement français a annulé  cette thèse profanatrice. Nous pensons que la Conférence générale de l'Unesco  pourrait adopter une déclaration contre les négateurs du génocide et contre les  falsificateurs de l'histoire. La défense de la probité intellectuelle est la  première tâche du Secrétariat. Nous vous prions de bien vouloir insérer dans le  cadre du grand programme XII la recommandation ci-dessus.
22.9 Nous nous permettons de rappeler ici plusieurs suggestions que nous  avons déjà faites en 1983. Une branche de cette culture attachée aux communautés  d'Europe de l'Est et d'Europe centrale, la culture yiddish, a été presque anéan-  tie pendant la deuxième guerre mondiale. I1 est urgent de sauver ce patrimoine  culturel d'une valeur unique, lié à la culture locale de plusieurs pays d'Europe  centrale et linguistiquement à l'allemand et à la langue hébraïque. Une reunion  d'experts convoquée par l'Unesco pourrait élaborer des suggestions en vue de la  conservation de ce patrimoine linguistique et littéraire d'une richesse spiri-  tuelle inestimable, aujourd'hui voué à l'oubli. L'Unesco, qui encourage la  pluralité des langues et des cultures, serait bien inspirée de défendre le  yiddish.
22.10 Enfin, Monsieur le Président, nous nous félicitons de la citation de la  Bible qu'a faite un éminent delégué d'un grand pays à l'appui de la recherche de  la justice. La justice en hébreu se dit tzedek et voici la citation hébraïque :  "Tzedek, tzedek tirdof", c'est-à-dire : "La justice, la justice tu poursuivr?s":  Cette recommandation est enracinée dans l'âme du peuple juif et elle est liee a  la notion de paix. Que le Shalom - la paix que nous attendons pour Israël et Pour  tout le Proche-Orient, sans esprit de rancune, se propage dans cette enceinte.  J'espère que les travaux de la Conférence générale se dérouleront dans Cet esprit  et, en vous remerciant, Monsieur le Président, je vous souhaite plein Succès.
23.1 The PRESIDENT:  for his statement.  I thank the representative of the International Council of B 'nai B 'rith
23.2 Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is adjourned.  La séance est levée à 13 heures  The meeting rose at 1.00 p.m.  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.00