Vingt-cinquième séance plénière
4 novembre 1987, à 10 h 20  Président : M. PUTZEYS ALVAREZ (Guatemala)  Twenty-fifth plenary meeting
785    HOMMAGE A M. M'BOW, DIRECTEUR GENERAL  TRIBUTE TO MR M'BOW, DIRECTOR-GENERAL  HOMENAJE AL SR. M'BOW, DIRECTOR GENERAL  BbIPAXEHME IIPH3HATEJIbHOCTM ï-HY M'BOY, TkHEPAJIbHOMY AHPEKTOPY  ,Ml 4 19"' +JI
(1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr Director-General, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Your Excellencies,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the plenary meeting at  which we are to pay tribute to the Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow.
(1.2) On behalf of all the Member States of Unesco gathered together for the  General Conference, I have the honour to inaugurate this ceremony, decided upon  unanimously and with the full agreement of all delegates representing the Member  States of our Organization.
(1.3) As has been pointed out, for nearly one third of Unesco's existence, you,  Mr M'Bow, have given dedicated service to the Organization, preparing its draft  programmes and budgets and administering the Organization at the head of a body of  officials and other staff members from all the regions of the world. To the
13 years of your leadership .as Director-General may be added the four years during  which you represented your country, Senegal, on the Executive Board, a body of  signal importance for the functioning of Unesco and for the execution of the  decisions of the General Conference.
(1.4) Your demanding responsibilities as member of the Executive Board were  followëd by four years of service in one of the most important sectors of Unesco's  work, that of education, which is of direct significance for the developing world.  As we are all aware, education is not orhy the key to freedom, but it also affords  the opportunity to develop the true wealth of our planet, that is to say the men and  women who go to make it up, and you, as Minister of Education and Culture and as a  member of academic institutions and universities too numerous to be listed here,  _devoted yourself in your own country to this educational work that is so closely  linked with the task of the Organization.
(1.5) Your life, Mf M'Bow, has been intimately bound up with all that is most  important in the universe, with the most lofty of all responsibilities, those which,  covering as they do the sensitive areas of education, science and culture, are  fraught with profound moral implications and are the basis for building a better  world. At the meetings of the General Conference and Executive Board sessions, the  representatives of Member States have had many opportunities to express their  appreciation for the personal qualities and work of a man who has dedicated his life  to the tasks of our Organization. They have all testified to your dedication to  work and deep commitment to the causes in which you believe with such remarkable  conviction. The words uttered by delegates during the recent general policy debate  at this meeting are still ringing in our ears, all of them, without exception,  statements of gratitude to you for your devotion to Unesco, and it is this  expression of appreciation that forms the background of today's ceremony which I am  inaugurating with my tribute.
(1.6) I shall not, and indeed could not in so short a time, venture to sum up the  expressions of high esteem in which your merits are held by the delegates and  representatives of Member States gathered here, but I can affirm quite unequivocally  that their words of appreciation and esteem were no superficial stock phrases  uttered for reasons of protocol or mere courtesy, but stem from a sincere feeling  which, in differing ways, is unanimously shared by those joining in this tribute  today.
(1.7) The Executive Board, at a formal meeting, also paid its tribute to you,  Mr Director-General, and, concluding the statements by representatives of the  regional groups, unanimously adopted a decision referring eloquently and  specifically to your personal qualities and achievements. The General Committee of  the Conference took note of that decision and also decided unanimously to recommend  that it be endorsed by the General Conference. I now have the honour to read it out  to you:
25  'The General Conference,
1. Considering that the term of office of Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow,  Director-General of Unesco, will end on 14 November 1987,
2. Aware of the deep commitment to the principles and ideals of Unesco  which he has always sought to interpret faithfully, and to defend with  vigour,
3. Conscious of the eminent contribution which, throughout his career in  the Organization, Mr M'Bow has unstintingly made to its development,  progress and success,
4. Fullv endorses the decision adopted by the Executive Board at its  meeting on 2 November 1987, which reads as follows:  "The Executive Board,
8.  Recalling that Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, after having been an  elected member of the Executive Board of Unesco from 1966 to
1977, joined the Secretariat in 1970 and served successively as  Assistant Director-General, Education Sector, and as  Director-General,  Further recalling that, on 14 November 1974, he was appointed to  the office of Director-General by the General Conference at its  eighteenth session, and that, on 27 September 1980, his  appointment was unanimously renewed by the General Conference at  its twenty-first session for a second term which will expire on
14 November 1987,  Considering that Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, in discharging his high  responsibilities, has never ceased to exert himself to the utmost  in the service of the Organization and that, by the clarity of  his vision of the Organization's mission, his incisive grasp of  the problems of the modern world, his dynamic humanism and his  unremitting efforts to secure a consensus and full participation  by Member States, National Commissions and intergovernmental and  non-governmental organizations in Unesco's activities, he has  contributed signally to giving the Organization an unprecedented  impetus and range of influence which have enabled it to make  substantial advances in serving the international community, and  to become an effective force in the effort to promote peace,  human rights and development,  Considering further his thorough understanding of the United  Nations system and the manner in which he has enabled the  Organization to contribute to its effectiveness, and to make its  voice heard and play its due part within the system,  Convinced that the example he has set, which signally exemplifies  the virtues of international intellectual co-operation and the  international civil service and is a source of pride to the  Secretariat of which he was a member and which he has led with  such distinction, will continue in the future to inspire all  those who, in whatever capacity, endeavour to put into practice  the Organization's ideals,  Appreciative of the mutually respectful co-operation which  developed between him and the Executive Board in shouldering the  tasks attributed to them both by the Constitution and the General  Conference,  Pavs solemn tribute to Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow at its plenary  meeting on 2 November 1987, and conveys to him its profound  gratitude;  Expresses the hope that the coming years will afford him many  sources of satisfaction and offer him further opportunities of  giving the international community the benefit of his experience  and of his tireless devotion to the great causes of humanity.",
5. Appreciative of the close co-operation which has been maintained  between Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow and the General Conference, and of the  perspicacity and sensitivity with which he interpreted its wishes and  the dedication which he demonstrated in the implementation of its  decisions,
6. P a w  tribute to Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow and exDresses its deevest  gratitude to him on the occasion of this plenary meeting of 4 November
(1.8) This, ladies and gentlemen, is the text of the resolution recommended by  the General Committee of the Conference. I should like to say once again that it was  the wish of the General Committee representing all the regions and all the Member  States of Unesco, LO pay tribute to Mr MIBOW, and to associate his wife, Mrs M'Bow,  with that tribute, in recognition of her dedication, at her husband's side, to the  cause of Unesco. Ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pleasure that I have carried  out the wishes of the General Committee.  (Applause)
(1.9) 1.give the floor to Mr Ivo Margan, Chairman of the Executive Board.
2.1 Mr YiRGAN (Yugoslavia), Chairman of the Executive Board:  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is my privilege  as Chairman of the Executive Board to pay tribute to the Director-General,  Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, who has presided over the destiny of Unesco for 13 years.
2.2 But his association with the Organization goes back to 1966, when as  Minister of Education and Chairman of the National Commission of Senegal he led  his country's delegation to the General Conference at its fourteenth session and  when he was elected a member of the Executive Board. Very soon his contribution  to the work of the Executive Board came to be highly appreciated: for his excel-  lent grasp and thorough study of the topics which came before the Board, for the  insightful understanding of the development issues of developing countries in the  fields of competence of Unesco and for the clarity and lucidity with which he  expressed his views and opinions.
2.3 It is no wonder that two years later he wäs elected Chairman of the  Programme arid External Relations Commission, where he demonstrated his skills in  conducting the deliberations and his eloquence and clarity in presenting reports.  It is for these qualities, combined with his commitment to the goals of the  Organization, that the Board unanimously decided to support his candidature for  the post of Assistant Director-General for Education in 1970 and four years later  for the post of Director-General.
2.4 Mr President, seven years ago, on 29 September 1980, I had the honour,  as President of the General Conference, to preside over the installation of  Mr MIBOW as Director-General for a second term of office. At that time I said:  'by electing you Director-Generâl for a further term of office, the General Con-  ference has not only recogni.zed your merits and your abilities, evidence of which  may be found throughout the pages of documents produced by this Organization  (...) but it was mainly because of your youthful spirit and the unwavering  dedication that you have invested in your incessant efforts to carry out the  programme of our Organization'.
2.5 As someone who has in various capacities actively participated in, or  has been witness to, the work of the Organization for the last seven years, I can  say that the same youthful spirit and unwavering dedication have inspired you,  Mr M'BOW, to make your outstanding contribution to the promotion of international  intellectual co-operation in the fields of education, science, culture and  cornniunication. During these years, you have also endeavoured to develop and  promote innovative programmes and activities aimed at bringing about a new order  in the relations between nations and peoples and at strengthening co-operation  among them in a common effort to improve the condition of man. The concept of  'consensus' which you have promoted is indeed a timely approach. For these have  been difficult years for the Organization, reflecting the difficulties that the  world has been experiencing in adapting to the upheavals brought about by the  rapid progress of science and technology and the social and political processes  of change accompanying them. The world is going through a period of transition  characterized by complexity and uncertainty.
2.6 The difíiculties will continue and the shaping of the new society in the  making calls for a change in our ways of thinking and doing. It underlines the  critical need to create new global models of development which take into account  the growing interdependence between nations and peoples and the common destiny of  humanity. It is imperative that these models be created on the basis of construc-  tive dialogue among all concerned in order to accommodate divergent viewpoints  and outlooks.
2.7 It is in this context I believe, Mr M'Bow, that one sees the value of  the new orientations that the Organization has worked to develop and promote
790    under your inspiration and guidance. It is for future historians to analyse and  appreciate the,value of your contribution to the Organization and, through it, to  the world comrnbnity. For my part, I should only like to reiterate what I said in  my oral report on 21 October 1987, in particular I... whatever you did, you did  it with the sincere conviction that that was 'the best possible way. I discovered  in you a great fighter for Unesco, for its mission in the world and for the  ideals embodied in its Constitution. In defending these ideals you have always  been uncompromising'.
2.8 In ten days' time, Mr Director-General, your mandate will come to an  end. But I am sure that you will continue to serve the international community in  other ways so that it may continue to draw benefit from the fruits of your rich  experience. I wish you all success in whatever you plan to undertake in the  future.
2.9 On this occasion, I also wish to express our heartfelt gratitude to  Mrs M'Bow. From my personal experience, I know how much the spouse serves as a  constant source of support and inspiration.
2.10 In conclusion, Mr President, I wish to recall that, as you have already  mentioned, the Executive Board, which met on Monday, 2 November 1987, adopted by  acclamation a resolution paying tribute to the Director-General. With your  permission, I will now present to the Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow,  the French text of the resolution which has been reproduced 011 parchment paper  and signed by the Chairman of the Executive Board.
(3) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Breitenstein of Finland, who will speak on behalf of Group I.  I thank Mr Ivo Margan for his statement. I give the floor to Mr Wilhem
4.1 Mr BREITENSTEIN (Finland) :  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the General Conference has been  convened today in this noble hall to salute and pay tribute to a truly remarkable  personality - Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow. Appointed Director-General of the United  Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization in 1974 - and re-  appointed unanimously in 1980 for another term - he is now about to leave us. It  is only natural that the General Conference has convened in this solemn session  to thank the Director-General and to express its collective best wishes to him  for his future.
4.2 I feel profoundly honoured and privileged to speak on this occasion on  behalf of the countries which in Unesco are called members of electoral Group I.
4.3 Mr Director-General, 13 years at the highest office of Unesco is in  itself an impressive performance. Add to that the four years during which you  served as the representative of your native country - Senegal - on the Executive  Board as well as another four years as Assistant Director-General of Unesco, and  we realize that you have served our Organization altogether for over 20 years -  half of Unesco's own life time. What better proof of a man's unfaltering  dedication to Unesco?
4.4 Mr Director-General, tribute has already been paid to you in the  eloquent statements which'we have just heard by our President, Mr Putzeys Alvarez  and by Mr Ivo Margan, Chairman of the Executive Board. It is difficult to add to  what has already been said by these two eminent speakers. Let me, however,  address one particular aspect, the one which I just mentioned - your devotion and  dedication to Unesco.
4.5 Dedication breeds vision and determination. These are qualities that you  possess. They make a leader - and leaders must take decisions which are diffi-  cult, controversial and sometimes unpopular. You have surely had your share of  such decisions to take.
4.6 I could today have chosen the easier way of referring only to the  pleasant and positive aspects of your time as Director-General. And rriuch could  anã has indeed already been said about your contribution to and your achievements  for the benefit of the Organization. But we do not live in a perfect world. On  the contrary. The world today faces enormous political, cconomic and social  difficulties and challenges. Contrary to what is sometimes claimed, or sometimes  hoped, Unesco cannot isolate itself from these problems. They are constantly with
79 1    us -. in a sense they are the raison d ' w  of the entire United Nations system of  which Unesco is an integral part. You, Mr Director-General, more than others,  have been exposed to these difficulties and challenges.
4.7 I know you too well, .Mr M'Bow. I know that you would have considered it  dishonest and pure flattery if I did not also refer to the difficulties which you  have had to face almost continuously. You, if anyone, must recognize the truth of  the saying that the wind always blows strongest at the summit. Naturally your  views and decisions have not always corresponded to the wishes of all Member  States, and undeniably members of the Group on whose behalf I am speaking have  given you their share of difficulties and disagreements. Yet it would be unfair  and unjust not to stress also the numerous instances when our views have  converged or when your wise counsel has prevailed.
4.8 Let me also add - at the risk of being misinterpreted - that when  criticism of and disagreement with the Director-General have been voiced,  particularly by souIces outside Unesco, they have more often than not been voiced  by people who do not have the same knowledge and experience of or the same  unswerving dedication tc> Unesco and its principles and ideals as you have SO  steadfastly demonstrated.
4.9 You, Mr Director-General, have had the ungrateful task of guiding our  Organization during a period of increasing difficulties. In past years we have  witnessed growing discontent with multilateral co-operation in general and indeed  with the entire United Nations system. Three Member States have withdrawn from  the Organization. I have mentioned this without wishing to pass judgement on the  motives of the States in question. I have referred to the withdrawals only  because they are a reality - a political reality which you and the members of  Unesco have hctd to face. Far too little attention has, in my view, been paid to  the manner in which Unesco has tried to and indeed has overcome the consequences  of these withdrawals. With a less dedicated leadership this would not have been  possible.
4.10 DeSlication means vision - not only a vision of noble ideals but also of  the means of achieving them. One of your greatest contributions to the work of  Unesco, Mr Director-General, has perhaps been your relentless search for  consensus. You reälized hell before others that international co-operation cannot  at its present fragile stage be pursued and achieved by means of divisive voting.  On the contrary,' lasting results must be based on the widest possible agreement  about goals and objectives, and about the means and methods necessary to achieve  these goals.
4.11 It is largely thanks to you that Unesco has adopted the method of  consensus. It was you who took the initiative of instituting for the General  Conference a special body -.the so-called 'Drafting and Negotiation Group' 7 with  the purpose of negotiating. and reaching consensus on difficult and divisive  issues. I am sure that you, Mr M'Bow, would be the last one to regret that so far  during this ongoing Conference this invention of yours, the DNG Group, has hot  even met for lack of controvers.ia1 issues. it is indeed a very'fitting tribute to  the Eirector-General that this General Conference seems to proceed in an  -. - atmosphere of calm and consensus. May I say in passing that this is a phenomenon  worth noting also by those who report on our Conference.
4.12 I: have learnt in readinrj the records that when Mr W'Bow was elected  Director-General for the first time in 1974 he made a statement at the inaugural  ceremony which he began with the following words - and I shall quote them.in  French: 'avant de prononcer le serment rituel, je voudrais accomplir un autre  rite qui répond aux traditions du continent d'où je viens. I1 s'agit de prendre  solennellement conge äevant vous de l'Afrique, des pays du tiers monde et des  membres du groupe V qui ont pris l'initiative de proposer ma candidature et qui  e? Ont étg les soutiens les plus fermes. Je prends congé d'eux parce que,  desormais, je suis le citoyen de chacun de vos pays, et le serviteur de la  totalité de vos Etats.'
4.13 Mr Director-General, you hqve kept your word. But at the same time, even  though you said farewell to Africa, your election meant that Africa was brought  closer to the rest of the membership and the Organization. This was rightly so,  and to the common benefit. I believe in fact that perhaps the finest tribute we  could pay to Mr M'Bow today is to take a pledge to continue for our part to  devote our energy and attention to the great needs and ,problems of the African  continent.
4.14 Mr President,, ciedication is a noble word generally linked to noble  ideas. Yet true dedication must extend tQ undramatic, everyday routine matters as  well. III this regard you, Mr Director-General, have been exemplary. To illustrate  this, let me mention that, as Chairnian of the Headquarters Committee of the
792    General Conference, I have often come to see you and I can testify to the open-  mindedness of the Director-General and his readiness and willingness to discuss,  ponder and advise on problems of the smallest detail which to an outsider would  seem of marginal importance. And may I add that I was always impressed in these  discussions by the deep, indeed piiternal concern you always displayed for your  staff and their interest.
4.15 Mr M'Bow is a man of dedication, a man of vision and ideals and, as we  all know, he is also an extraordinary worker who does not seem to know the mean-  ing of the words 'working hours'. Fortunately for Unesco this man does not claim  overtime pay - otherwise we would find ourselves in even greater budgetary  diericulties.
4.16 Fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is a remarkable man to whom  we are now collectively paying tribute. I am sure that we ail ask from where he  gets his strength, energy, perseverance, and his happy and friendly smile. The  answer is perhaps not so mysterious n a  so dramatic. I believe that the answer to  a great extent is Madam M'Bow. Let nie - like previous speakers - pay tribute to  her through you, Mr Director-General. We wish to thank her for her dedication to  Unesco as President of the Unesco Community Service, and we also wish to thank  her for the generous hospitality which she has shown to us over the years.
4.17 In conclusion, Mr President, I wish to place on record the tul1 support  of Group I for the draft resolution which you presented in your opening state-  merit. Thank you very much.
(5) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Finland for his statement on behalf of Group I.  Mr Péter Nagy, the delegate of Hungary, who will speak on behalf of Group II, now  has the floor.
6.1 M. NAGY (Hongrie) :  Monsieur le Directeur général, permettez-moi de vous dire, au nom du  groupe électoral II, toute notre estime pour le travail que vous avez accompli  pendant les treize années oh vous avez été à ia tête de notre Organisation.  Assurément, les années OU vous l'avez dirigée entreront dans les annales de  l'Unesco comme des années de grande conséquence, et votre marque restera indélé-  bile, et sur les buts, et sur les méthodes de l'organisation.
6.2 Si j'essaie de récapituler ces treize années d'événements, de problèmes  et de réussites, j'y trouve comme fil rouge votre souci - souvent couronné de  succès - de marier la théorie et la pratique, de donner autant de poids à la  pensée prospective, à la réflexion théorique sur les principes et les perspec-  tives de l'organisation et de l'humanité qu'à la pratique dans les domaines de  la science, de l'éducation, de la culture et de la communication. C'est de ce  double souci qu'ont procédé le système de programmation de l'action de l'Unesco,  les plans biennaux et à moyen terme, et surtout le principe des grands programmes  globaux dont l'adoption a qualitativement changé le travail et les perspectives  de toute l'Organisation.
6.3 Dès sa naissance, l'Unesco a considéré le tiers monde comme son terrain  de travail de prédilection. Mais jamais auparavant les efforts de l'organisation  n'avaient été aussi centrés sur les pays en développement et n'avaient porté  autant de fruits sur ce terrain que sous votre égide. Cela restera à coup sûr un  des acquis fondamentaux de votre direction et un résultat qui doit servir de  base à notre action future à tous.
6.4 Permettez-moi de vous dire, Monsieur le Directeur général, que nous  avons eu, pendant ces années OU vous avez dirige l'Organisation, d'amples raisons  d'admirer et d'estimer vos qualités personnelles. I1 y en a plusieurs que mes  collègues ne manqueront pas de faire valoir ; pour ma part, j'en relèverai une  seule : le courage personnel mis au service des idéaux que vous avez épousés.  Vous n'avez pas fléchi sous le coup des attaques ; les campagnes d'insinuation  et de calomnie ne vous ont pas amené à des compromis fâcheux, au contraire ! La  tourmente vous a donné de nouvelles forces et vous a fait encore plus fidèle aux  principes que vous avez il y a longtemps épousés et toujours poursuivis.
6.5 Pour conclure, j'aimerais exprimer, en notre nom à tous, l'espoir que  la riche expérience que vous avez accumulée nous restera acquise, que vos sages
793    conseils et votre connaissance des affaires de l'Unesco et du monde entier enri-  chiront la pensée et l'action des futurs directeurs, et continueront ainsi à  enrichir la communauté intellectuelle internationale.
(7) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank Mr Nagy, the delegate of Hungary, who spoke on behalf of Group II.  I now give the floor to Mr Alberto Wagner de Reyna of the delegation of Peru, who  will speak on behalf of Group III.
(8.1) Mr WAGNER DE REYNA (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, with this tribute to Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, Unesco is  closing a chapter in its history. And by this I do not simply mean a chapter  corresponding to two successive constitutional periods. No, these 13 years (one  third of Unesco's entire existence) are a coherent unit in themselves, one of  historical significance, marked by the strong personality of our Director-General.
(8.2) It is only right and proper that we should assess the true value of this  period of time and at the same time understand and appraise the man who has  dedicated himself entirely to the task of fulfilling his ideals during that period.
(8.3) In order to do so, we must look back into Unesdo's past and remember how it  was founded in the euphoria of peace, 41 years ago, virtually at the same time as  the United Nations, in London, at a time when its watchword might have been 'Never  again, never again let there be such slaughter'. And so the euphoria of peace was  intermingled with the horror of the war that had just ended, and Unesco was designed  to be an instrument of concord and solidarity, its field of action being the realm  of the mind, and specifically the three dimensions of education, science and culture.
(8.4) But how was such an undertaking to be translated into practice? The  Palais-Royal, seat of the League of Nations' International Commission for  Intellectual Co-operation cast its long shadow over the old Hotel Majestic on Avenue  Kléber, where the Organization took up its Headquarters. At its inception Unesco  was, in inspiration and method, a replica of that brilliant but ineffectual forum of  the international élite of the time.
(8.5) But then a political event occurred which was a repetition of a historical  phenomenon that had taken place more than a century before, when, between 1810 and
1825, some 20 countries in a distant continent, Latin America, gained their  independence. Now, in the 1950s, an even larger number of States on various  continents achieved their political freedom. The international scene changed, and  with it Unesco's outlook, for the urgent problems of the new nations demanded  innovatory and immediate solutions. Unesco had to look southwards and respond to the  appeal of the people living in of those latitudes; it had to assist in their  development.
(8.6) And thus a change came about. Unesco, from being an academic and  intellectual organization, set about channelling technical assistance from the  industrial countries to the developing countries, and saw this as its primary  function. As a result, the 1960s witnessed a technical focus (dominated by the  concept of development) in the Organization's activities. Half-way through that  decade, Mr M'Bow appeared on the scene in Unesco, and the fact that he shared the  concerns and approach of the then Director-General, René Maheu, brought him into the  limelight. His drive and clear-sightedness made him one of the most outstanding  promoters of a new trend, which emerged as a logical consequence of the previous  change in approach, although it subsequently had to transcend and even contradict it.
(8.7) When Mr M'Bow took over as Director-General in 1974, this new approach was  to be the line of emphasis and keynote concept in his thinking and action and, as  the years went by, was to assert itself more and more clearly as Unesco's specific  style. What was this new approach? Let us say that it is threefold.
(8.8) Firstly, it is universal. The developing world cannot confine itself to  being the passive recipient of technical assistance, but must take an active part in  it. That participation must be democratic, it must aim at consensus, between parties  who treat each other as equals, since their various cultures are fundamentally equal  in dignity. Development does not mean simply receiving something from other  countries, but involves response, commitment, dialogue and being true to one's own  roots. In this way, Unesco's common effort has become universal. This manner of  thinking and acting has emerged increasingly clearly and has found increasingly  subtle and tangible expression; the Third World has identified itself with the will  for development, and Africa has spearheaded that movement within Unesco.
(8.9) Secondly, world problems have become the overriding concern. The  Organization is no longer regarded as a neutral framework for specific activities,  but is now seen within the historical context of its times - a time of crisis, but  also a time for seeking a new international order on various fronts (economic,  social and communication); a time when, to be sure, a century is drawing to a close,  but also a time when the twenty-first century is dawning. Unesco has become aware of  the groundswell of change in the world of which it is part, and of its dangers - the  threat of war, environmental devastation, overpopulation, etc. - and is mindful. of  its original aim, that is, to build the defences of peace in the minds of men. This  is the basis for Major Programme I and for Unesco's endeavour to promote appropriate  communication and information so that the knowledge and will of all people on earth  may be directed towards peace. In doing so, Unesco's lines of approach and action  have become worldwide in scope.
(8.10) Thirdly, its method of work is a global one, since it has squarely faced  the fact that the various issues it deals with are interdependent. The approaches it  adopts have become increasingly multidisciplinary in character, with lines of thrust  cutting across and encompassing situations which at first sight may have seemed  distinct from one another; the programmes have become multisectoral, and in becoming  more comprehensive have grown more complex, which moreover is but a reflection of  the way things are. Different areas merge: suddenly everything is education,  everything is science, everything is culture, everything is communication, and all  this at one and the same time. How can we cope with such complexity without having  recourse to guiding principles and ethical inspiration? There is an urgent need to  innovate with imagination and courage. Unesco has become as complex as the world  itself.
(8.11) These are the three aspects of this new (and third) phase in the life of  the Organization, a phase of which Mr M'Bow is at once the protagonist and symbol.  Any action will encounter setbacks; any forward thrust can lead to excesses and  engender resistance and counter-currents; and ultimately the forces at work are  polarized and the situation takes a dramatic turn. Unesco has not escaped this  natural law that governs any human enterprise.
(8.12) The many-faceted, universal nature of activities and factors, underscoring  as it does the reality of the new, emerging historical forces, clashed with the  conceptions of a rigidly structured international community as reflected in the  Charter of the United Nations. This process had a direct bearing on the disaffection  of some circles in the industrial nations with regard to multilateral forms of
797    external assistance; it also coincided with the somewhat vociferous expression of  long-repressed aspirations. The result was that universality was shattered and the  break-up came from the other side, with the withdrawal of two great and powerful  Western Member States.
(8.13) With the extension of the Organization's work to include acute general  problems arising directly from the crisis, the ethical concerns of Unesco's  worldwide mission encompassed areas traditionally beyond its purview. Did that mean  that it was moving into the sphere of ideology? Might this not be seen as  politicization? The desire to promote genuinely democratic communication between  North and South brought Unesco into the sights of the established media, which  vehemently accused the Organization of departing from the technical neutrality which  had been the hallmark of the second phase of its existence.
(8.14) Finally, the complexity of its new approach (its global nature) created  grey areas; Unesco's action seemed at times to be incomprehensible and ceased to be  clear to many who were anxious for its aims to be formulated in clear-cut terms. The  the thirst for justice and dignity was denounced as demagogy. Praise of liberty was  interpreted as subversion. Everything depended on the particular standpoint.  Dialogue became arduous and mutual understanding ever more tenuous.
(8.15) Demands for reform came from outside, and were taken up within Unesco  itself. Mr M'Bow was the first to acknowleâge the need for many of them and to  encourage measures to clarify and redress the situation and introduce greater  transparency, a task entrusted to the Executive Board.
(8.16) But the very fact that the Director-General had been the main instigator  and symbol of Unesco's new approach (which I have tried to describe briefly) made  him the target of those who objected to the Organization's new way of operating.  There were some well-founded criticisms and many slanderous accusations, fair  comments and groundless insinuations, campaigns to help Unesco and plots to destroy  it.
(8.17) And so, Mr President, historical responsibility is a double-edged sword -  the one edge gleams with the glow of success, while the other cuts deep with  reproach. The radical transformation which Unesco has undergone under his leadership  is embodied and concentrated in the person of Mr M'Bow. Great men and outstanding  leaders are, at one and the same time, culprits in the historical scene.
(8.18) But the tide of history flows on. At times, it proceeds peacefully and  pleasantly, then suddenly the waters seethe and rise until they brim over, only to  subside again and return to their normal level. The course of history is a  dialectical one, involving conservation and renovation, change and continuity,  conflict and concord. Are we not reminded of the words of Heraclitus, in another  age: PalenthroDon harmonia?
(8.19) The election of the Director-General, with all the turmoil that has  surrounded it in the last few weeks, is not only part of a normal democratic  process, but an event occurring over and over again as is characteristic of history.  Living waters cannot stagnate. And now is the time when we can say that history  points to the future, and, in the future, the 13 years that have come to an end  today, those 13 years placed under the inspiration, guidance and leadership of  Mr M'Bow, will remain with us in Unesco. The landmarks he has set up along the way  cannot be disregarded, and for a long time to come will be points of reference in a  context of restored concord and mutual respect. The universal, international and  global character of our action, the dynamic presence of the Third World and the  spirit of consensus will be guiding lights and signposts along our way.
(8.20) And what will also remain will be the figure of a man. His intelligence and  competence, his indefatigable capacity for work, his inspired dedication and his  personal integrity have already been referred to by others. Nor need I dwell on his  honesty with himself and loyalty to those around him, or his unshakeable faith in  what he represents - Africa's crucial role in world history.
(8.21) But there is also something else that we cannot overlook, and that is the  importance of the family. The importance of the family as the fundamental unit,  ever-present in the life of a man who has not lost his roots. Mahtar and Raimonde  M'Bow are the best illustration of an ethic, of an attitude to life which needs no  comment or praise, for it is self evident.
(8.22) An observer looking at Mr M'Bow's entourage, like that of any public  figure, can make out three groups of people: friends, opponents and the succession  of people who worked with him, at times sceptic, at times compliant. I pride myself  on belonging to the first group and can testify to the generosity and warmth of his  friendship.
(8.23) One can agree with the Director-General, to whom we are paying tribute and  bidding farewell today, just as one can disagree with him; one can like or dislike  him; but one thing is undeniable - his courage, the steadfastness and conviction  with which he upholds his principles, and his complex but consistent personality,  which all merit respect and arouse admiration.
(8.24) In conclusion, I should like ta say to Mr M'Bow that we who come from Latin  America and the Caribbean do not and will not forget his interest in our concerns  and aspirations and his many welcome visits to our region, and I can assure him that  he will always, as-in the past, be at home among us.
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank Ambassador Alberto Wagner de Reyna, who spoke on behalf of  Group III. I now give the floor to Mr Ananda Guruge of the delegation of Sri Lanka,  who will speak on behalf of Group IV.
10.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Amadou-Mahtar K'Bow,  Director-General of Unesco, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is my  privilege to speak on this important occasion on behalf of the Asia and the  Pacific Group of Member States. As Chairman of this Group, I have the honour, in  the name of the twenty-nine Member States of this vast and most populous region,  to support draft resolution 24 ClPLENlDR.1, which has just been tabled to express  the appreciation and gratitude of the General Conference to the Director-General,  Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, who has rendered yeoman service to the Organization as a  member'of the Executive Board, as Assistant Director-General for Education and as  Director-General over an eventful period of well-nigh two decades.
10.2 Mr President, we whole-heartedly endorse the warm sentiments which have  been so very eloquently expressed by the Executive Board in its resolution. With  equal emphasis, we also approve every clause in the draft resolution by which the  General Conference seeks'to identify itself with the appraisal and appreciation  of the Director-General's services to the cause of international co-operation for  peace and development.
10.3 Mr Director-General, while associating ourselves with neither hesitation  nor reservation in the tribute which is paid to you by this draft resolution, we  of Asia and the Pacific wish to place on record our sincere gratitude for what  you, with your characteristic dedication to the welfare of humanity, have  specifically contributed to the development of regional and international co-  operation in the fields of culture, education, science, social sciences and  communication.
10.4 Mr Director-General, engraved on rock for millennia to come with your  own signature alongside that of His Excellency General Suharto, the President of  Indonesia, is your unforgettable and most durable achievement in the conservation  of the world's largest and artistically most spectacular monument, Borobudur.  Your deep and abiding interest in the safeguarding in the cultural heritage of  our region is further exemplified by a series of 'international appeals you have  launched and supported with all the resources that you could find within and  without the Organization. It is to your lasting credit that no less than six  well-designed programmes for the preservation of exceptional monuments are being  successfully implemented,, in Moenjodaro (Pakistan) , Sukhothai (Thailand) , the  Kathmandu Valley (Nepal), the 'Cultural Triangle' (Sri Lanka), Hué (Viet Nam) and  Paharpur and Bagerhat (Bangladesh). Further, in the field of cultural studies, it  has been largely due to your keen interest and unreserved love for the culture of  our part of the world that significant work was done as regards Sri Vijaya the  Image of the Buddha, and the History of the Civilizations of Central Asia.
10.5 Mr Director-General, our region has also drawn invaluable benefits from  your far-sighted policy of decentralization. Not only did you begin your experi-  ment with Regional Co-ordinators in our region but you also assigned special  Regional Advisers in culture, the social and human sciences and communication so  as to promote relevant activities in these fields in the regions. The fact that  you found some of the finest and most dedicated officials to man these posts is  further grounds for our appreciation of this initiative.
10.6 Your recognition of the diversity of our region was demonstrated by an  effort to set up subregional offices. My colleagues of the Group from the Pacific  and East Asia are particularly pleased with the Education Subregional Office in  Sainoa and the Science Office in China. We note with satisfaction that the two
799    Regional Offices for Science and Technology in New Delhi and Jakarta have been  progressively strengthened under your stewardship. A word of special thanks is  due to you for your recent effort to give new life to the(Regiona1 Centre for  Book Promotion in Karachi.
10.7 The encouragement you provided and the resources you allotted for the  progressive development of the modest Regional Office for Education of the early
1970s to its present stature as the one and only Principal Regional Unesco Office  merit special mention. You became Assistant Director-General for Education at a  time when the four regional centres set up in New Delhi, Colombo, Manila and  Tokyo under the Karachi Plan for Free and Compulsory Primary Education were  completing their prescribed terms. Apart from your wise decision at that time to  concentrate the expertise and experience of these centres to form a critical mass  of educational specialists at the Regional Office in Bangkok, you also gave  impetus to the inauguration of the pace-setting APEID - the Asian Programme of  Educational Innovation for Development - a Programme whose timeliness was amply  testified to when it was soon emulated in every other region.
10.8 Equally important for the overall development of education in Asia and  the Pacific were the steps you instituted in extending Unesco's concern to the  tertiary level by setting up networks of higher educational institutions and  concluding the Regional Convention on the Recognition of Studies, Diplomas and  Degrees in Higher Education. One more of your important innovations in our region  is the creation of a standing advisory committee on education to function between  the regional conferences of ministers.
10.9 The latest of your initiatives has been the launching of the Regional  Major Project APPEAL - Asia and Pacific programme for the universalization and  renewal of primary education and the eradication of illiteracy.
10.10 Mr Director-General, your most significant contribution to the region in  the field of science and technology has been the promotion of co-operation and  interaction among scientists and technologists by strengthening regional and  international centres of physics and mathematics and networks of research  institutes. Particular beneficiaries of the support provided under your leader-  ship are the networks in physics education, chemistry of natural products, micro-  biology and informatics as well as associations of engineering education.  Similarly remembered will be the impact of CASTASIA II on the formulation of  science and technology policies of the Member States of Asia and the Pacific.
10.11 We also note with satisfaction the work of the Asian Regional Co-  ordinating Commission on Hydrology and the progress made by the Major Regional  Project in South-East Asia and the Pacific with its six networks devoted to  pressing problems of the region such as appropriate technology for rural develop-  ment, development of alternative sources of energy, low-cost housing and micro-  electronics. While recording our appreciation of the implementation in Asia and  Pacific of the Major Programme for Integrated Management of Coastal Systems  (COMAR) with particular reference to the Regional Mangrove Project, a special  word of thanks is due to you for setting up the International Centre for  Integrated Mountain Development in Nepal.
10.12 Your policy of promoting networks and associations to bring the inter-  national intellectual community to work together for its common benefit has borne  spectacular results in the fields of information and the social sciences. You  have overseen and supporteä the founding of ASTINFO (the Regional Network for  Information and Experience in Science and Technology in Asia and the Pacific),  hASSREC (the Asian Association of Social Science Research Councils) and APPINESS  (Asia and Pacific Information Network in Social Sciences).
10.13 With your unstinted encouragement and support and under your benevolent  policy of encouraging inäividual initiative, our region has seen the production  of some of the best researched, exquisitely well-written and attractively  published works in education and the social sciences which are truly worthy of  Unesco.
10.14 Mr Director-General, I could add more to this list of regional achieve-  ments of Unesco under your direction and even supplement it with reference to  many national activities. But suffice it to say that what I have so far given as  examples should convince the distinguished delegates of why our region joins the  international community in expressing to you our utmost indebtedness and  appreciation. To you we offer a most sincere 'Thank you'.
10.15 Mr President, distinguished delegates, I crave your indulgence as I add  a personal note of appreciation. I have had the remarkable privilege of knowing  Mr M'Bow for over 16 years. For 14 years of those years, I worked as a Unesco  staff member under his guidance and came into direct and close contact with him  in a manner that only a few fortunate ones among us could.
10.16 It is no exaggeration and it is not undue adulation to say that Mr M'BOW  is an inspiring leader, a tower of strength in difficult situations, and a source  of continuing encouragement to those who work with him. He is no doubt demanding  and could even be a perfectionist. Himself a dedicated hardworker with a single-  minded drive to achieve exacting targets, he would expect nothing less from his  colkeaques. it mattered little where he was, how far he had travelled, what  difficult and delicate negotiations he had to conduct or what a heavy programe  of social engagemeats he had to go through. He had time and energy to attend to  all matters which were referred to him whether from Headquarters or elsewhere.
10.17 What I observed on several of his missions even in places like Nepal,  Mongolia, Sri Lanka or Tamil Nadu in India was that he retired to his room at the  end of the long day to continue his work until the early hours of the morning.  Invariably he would greet his team at breakfast, with ample directions to keep  thein busy the whole day - letters to write, telexes to dispatch and problems to  study.
10.18 What would impress us most is how he kept abreast of major world events.  He has been an indefatigable purveyor of news in the international scene. Warm  and cordial messages of sympathy, encouragement, appreciation and congratulation  went out daily from him to various corners of the world, indicating how deeply  concerned he was in whatever happened in the Member States. Anyone who worked  with him had an inordinately heavy load to carry. But both motivation and solace  came from the tact that he worked harder, longer and with a far greater  assiduity.
10.19 I have been impressed not only by his deep and extensive knowledge of  many subjects but, more so, by his unceasing quest for more and more learning. A  voracious reader and an engaging conversationalist , Mr M' Bow displays an  unusually alert intellect characterized by a rare eclectic and analytical  approach to knowledge.
10.20 No subject is unimportant to him. An exotic plant, a historical monu-  ment, a work of art, a piece of machinery or a tea-plucker at work would lead him  on lines of inquiry which baffled many a colleague. Consequently, he discovered  many a new piece of information which he would use not arrogantly in a pedantic  manner but enthusiastically as a lifelong student who was at the same time a  lifelong teacher.
10.21 He delved deep into the history and culture of the places he visited. I  have always admired his depth of understanding and the resulting appreciation of  finer aspects of Buddhist philosophy and Asian culture. I remember once how he  won the instant love of a large audience of Sri Lankan scholars by inserting into  a prepared speech several apt quotations from the verses written by ancient  tourists on the mirror-wall of Sigiriya. Equally fascinating was his discussion  with the Chief High Lama of Ulan Bator$ in which he impresseä everyone present  with his knowledge of Central Asian civilizations.
10.22 Whence came his energy and drive? It has been my conclusion that they  were founded on an insatiable urge to serve humanity - a deep and abiding comniit-  ment to fight against ignorance, inequalities apathy arid exploitation. One may  disagree with his analysis of problems or strategies and modalities of action to  solve them. One niay even assign different priorities. But one could never  question his sincerity of purpose, nor his undivided dedicâtion, nor his  undaunted determination to see through to the logical conclusion whatever task he  undertook.
10.23 International co-operation has been his underlying creed and that, too,  in a concept of collaboration among equal and mutually respectful partners. If  there was anything which irked him most, it was even the slightest hint that one  culture was superior to another or that any particular community had a monopoly  of superior intellect or access to wisdom.
10.24 He has been truly engaged in a self-imposed mission to help the down-  trodden and underprivileged people to raise their heads high and walk with  confidence and dignity.
10.25 Mr Director-General, it is in appreciation of all these qualities ot  head and heart that we, the representatives of well-nigh the entire population of  the world, express to you our deepest gratitude. We are confident that you will  continue your life's mission with unabated diligence and that we will always have  the benefit of your experience and expertise and, above all, your example of  selfless devotion to the welfare of humanity.
10.26 It would therefore be appropriate for me to conclude with a Buddhist  benediction: Sukhi dighayuko bhava - may you live long in the best of health -  bahujanahitaya - for the good of the many - bahujanasukhaya -- for the happiness  v f  the many. Thank you.
11. El PRESIDENTE:  Agradezco al Sr. Ananda Guruge, de Sri Lanka, su intervención en nombre  del Grupo IV. Doy la palabra al Sr. P. Kasanda, de Zambia, quien hablará en nom-  bre de los paises africanos del Grupo V a).  (il) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank Mr Ananda Guruge of Sri Lanka for his statement on behalf of  Group IV. I give the floor to Mr P. Kasanda of Zambia, who will speak on behalf of  the Africa countries of Group V(a>
12.1 Mr KASANDA (Zambia) :  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished heads of delegations, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is for  me an honour and a special privilege to have been asked by the African Group to  s a y ~ ~ a  few words in tribute to Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, the outgoing Director-  General of Unesco. The choice of Zambia wâs made on the basis of Zclmbia's present  position as Chairman of the OAU. For me anù for my country, therefore, it is a  great honour to be associated with this privilege of saluting a great man who has  done so much for all of us during his tenure of office as Director-General of  Unesco.
12.2 As we all know, Mr President, Mr M'Bow has had a long ana illustrious  career spanning a period of 21 years in various capacities in the service of  Unesco. First, as a member of the Executive Board, then as Assistant Director-  General and ultimately as Director-General, the post which he has held for the  past 13 years. He has throughout these years demonstrated that he is a man of  principle, a man who is a believer in truth, justice and fair play. Mr M'Bow was  born in Africa but his allegiance has been that of a true internationalist as has  been demonstrated by his distinguished, dedicated and selfless service at the  head of our Organization.
12.3 Mr President, it is therefore fitting that we should today be paying  tribute to a man whose quest for truth and whose commitment to peace and inter-  national understanding will no doubt remain an indelible page in the history of  this Organization. Indeed, Mr President, such a man deserves the admiration and  gratitude of all of us.
12.4 Mr President, Mr M'Bow has left an imprint on the Organization, an  imprint which for a long time will continue to facilitate the realization of its  goais and objectives. Many of us will remember to associate the notion of  consensus with the name of kr M'Bow. During his term of office he also brought a  new meaning to the concept of solidarity among nations of diverse cultures. He,  more than anyone else, transformed this notion of consensus into an active and  effective vehicle for the harmonization and resolution of problems that faced the  Organization.
12.5 Mr President, one other landmark of Mr M'Bow's tenure of office was that  he trävelled far and wide to take the message of Unesco to many parts of the  globe. We all know, Mr President, that the message of Unesco is peace, under-  standing and goodwill among the nations of the world. Today it cannot be denied  that Unesco is a household name the world over.
12.6 Mr President, Mr M'Bow's record on human rights and social justice is  unblemished. In southern Africa, he rightly saw apartheid as a great threat to  peace and security in that region. In this respect he was unrelenting in his  condemnation of the obnoxious apartheid regime. He also spoke out against  injustices prevailing in other areas of the world where human rights and self-  determination are being denied. This is especially so to the people of Namibia  and Palestine.
12.7 In biùding you farewell, Mr Director-General, we the representatives of  the African Member States do hereby reaffirm our belief - expressed by the Organ-  ization of African Unity in its initial declaration of support for you - that  you, Mr Director-General, have in the last 2U years adequately advanced through  education, science, culture and comnmnication, the objectives of international  peace and the goals of bilateral and multilateral co-operation. We are satisfied  thät you have made a great contribution to the common welfare of mankind for  which our great Organization was established.
12.8 Before I conclude, I wish to take this opportunity to pay tribute also  to Mrs M'Bow who stood by your side all these years. fier fine qualities of  devotion and supportive action no doubt contributed to your great success.
12.9 Let me now conclude by saying that the greatest tribute we can pay to  you, Mr Director-General, is to assure you that we shall struggle to complete  your unfinished agenda. This is not the end of an era. We would like to believe
25  that, in fact, your departure marks the beginning of the consolidation of the  ideas, programmes and projects which were the hallmarks of Unesco during your  stewardship. Needless to say, in so doing we shall continue to pursue active  dialogue and solidarity through consensus with other groups in the continued  quest for better understanding among peoples.
12.10 We wish you, Mr Director-General, and members of your family, God’s  blessings, guidance and protection in your future endeavours. Thank you.
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank Mr P. Kasanda of Zambia who spoke on behalf of the African  countries of Group V(a). I now give the floor to Mr Mohamed Brahimi El-Mili of  Algeria, who will speak on behalf of the countries of Group V(b).
(14.1) Mr BRAHIMI EL-MILI (Algeria) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,  Mr Director-General, distinguished heads of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, my  colleagues in the Arab Group have given me the honour of representing them on this  memorable occasion. They have thus placed upon my shoulders a heavy responsibility  which, in view of the scope of the subject and the magnitude of the achievements,  will be difficult for me to discharge in the limited time available. I shall, then,  make only brief reference to the more important moments when Mr M'Bow's career  became linked with the course of major events in a world that has seldom witnessed  such radical change and important occurrences as those which have marked this  century which is now drawing to its close. Mr Director-General, I still remember  the first time I met you, when you were a minister representing your country at the  symposium on African culture which took place in Algiers on an auspicious summer day  in 1969 - the same day that man took his first steps on the moon's surface.
(14.2) Ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting here on this memorable occasion to pay  tribute to Mr Amadou-Mahter M'Bow, who has devoted many productive years of his life  to our Organization, all marked by dedication, hard work and a fighting spirit.  While it is true that life must go on and it is the future to which we must assign  priority, and that we must, therefore, be ready, with the help of the new  directorate to undertake the task of preserving what has been achieved in the Third  World, defending the policies of the Organization and making it more effective, we  also have a responsibility to the past, for it is the achievements of the past that  shape the future to which we aspire. That responsibility demands that we pause to  voice our appreciation and praise, but in fact, we can never adequately express our
25  gratitude for all the constructive results of the period which has just ended and  for the considerable work that has been accomplished. We hope, nevertheless, that  these few words, despite all their limitations, will express how we, the Arabs, feel  towards a man whose name has been synonymous with Unesco for 13 years and will  continue to be for a long time to come - for as long as the history of this  Organization is told and its past and its future are topics of discussion.
(14.3) Mr Director-General, your birth coincided with the beginnings of an age of  change in many countries of the world that were known only as dependencies of a  'mother country' in Europe or as territories under the domination of the North  American hegemony. I am referring to the Third World, which was not then called by  that name. Its location on the map was marked by colours chosen for each country by  those who held sway over them. During this period of gestation which marked the  beginning of the century, the colonized peoples became restless, encouraged as they  were after the First World War by the proclamation of Wilson's Fourteen Points, the  outbreak of the Great October Revolution in the land of the Czars and the awakening  of the Chinese giant, which the West thought it had immobilized in an eternal  slumber.
(14.4) Your entry into the Unesco 'Club' - that is, its Executive Board - in 1966  coincided with the advent of another new era, the outcome of the Third World's  struggles of the previous decades which culminated in the late 1950s and the early
1960s in the independence of one Third World country after another. This was  particularly so the case of Africa, the continent in which you were born and took  your first steps, and where you expressed yourself initially in Wolof - a language  which developed in the crucible of Islamic culture - before you mastered the French  language, which opened up to your inquiring and alert mind the vast treasures of  science, culture and art.
(14.5) Your election as Director-General of this international organization also  coincided with the start of yet another era which, in turn, was the product of the  effervescence of the 1960s. For when the elation of the political independence had  died down, the peoples of the Third World realized that possession of a flag and  observance of the outward manifestations of sovereignty were only means for  achieving more difficult ends, demanding a struggle no less fierce than that to  achieve independence, though the methods and approaches might differ. The issue now  at stake was the demand for a more equitable distribution of wealth. That national  awakening and will for change, motivated as it was by the desire for greater social  justice, came up against the unfair nature of international economic relations; the  peoples of the Third World, basing their arguments on irrefutable scientific  analysis, demanded the revision of the world economic structure which was, and still  is, controlled by interests which are leading the world economy into a chronic  crisis whose disastrous long-term effects will not spare even its short-term  beneficiaries.
(14.6) In the early 1980s during your second term of office, demands linked with  the assertion of cultural identity, already implicit in the aspirations for  independence and greater justice began to crystallize. Indeed, cultural identity is  the most effective means of asserting one's existence and specific nature and of  escaping dependence and spoliation. It is also the surest way of building up a  truly universal community for it helps to release dormant creative forces and is  conducive to pluralism in the peaceful coexistence of different groups, to diversity  which refuses domination by any one group, and to the right to be different, which  means that each cultural group accepts the culture of the others, welcoming dialogue  and mutual enrichment and rejecting submission to brute force or acquiescence  imposed by the power of wealth or the tyranny of technology, rendered attractive by  consumer goods that appeal to the instinct and ignore the human spirit.
(14.7) Mr Director-General, this conjunction of events, which you did not choose,  has placed you in the ranks of those who have helped to give expression to the  youthful vigour of a world which has sought emanicipation and wrested the right of  its peoples to recognition after much suffering and many epic battles in which the  boundary between history and legend has at times been blurred. Thus, the problems  which have occupied the scene at Unesco and which have had worldwide repercussions  are but natural consequences and predictable extensions of those battles.  Mr Director-General, these problems, which were not of your choosing, were those of  a period which was not your choice either. But, once the struggle was imposed upon  you, you opted for the difficult path and by taking the direction dictated by the  march of history, with all the obstacles that it implied, you were true to your  name, Mahtar, 'he who chooses'.
(14.8) When, 42 years ago, as a young man, you refused to execute the orders of a  superior, you demonstrated even then that you could make a difficult decision when  you believed that it was the right one and even when justification might have been  found for inaction and blind obedience and servility towards those who were in power  at the time.
(14.9) When you found yourself embroiled in the problems confronting this  Organization, which were imposed on you as they were on others, you did not react by  invoking fate and the inevitable. Rather, while you accepted their ineluctable  nature, you chose to confront them. Once again, you joined the ranks of those who,  in their action, the stand they take and the difficult decisions they make, help to  find soundly based answers to questions which have been man's constant concern and  which involve the issues of determinism, freedom, inevitability and free will. You  have clearly chosen to respond to the needs of qualitative transformation which  became crystallized in the development of the Third World in the early 1980s. As an  intellectual, you identified their implications and as a man of action you defended  them. You co-operated with those who shared these aspirations, convinced as you  were of the justice of the cause, the legitimacy of the claims and the soundness of  this course of action. You persevered when capitulation seemed to be the more  attractive path and submission the most tempting alternative.
(14.10) Mr President of the General Conference, as we extend these words of tribute  to Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow today, we salute a devoted son of Africa, a courageous  fighter for the Third World and an intellectual with humanistic ideals, who knows  that tenacity in the defence of justice should not reflect intransigence and that  the dialogue of ideas is more productive than the flexing of muscles. But this  tribute would be incomplete if we failed to include that unacknowledged campaigner  who has undoubtedly played a major role in the Director-General's career. I refer  to Madam M'Bow, in whom we salute a woman who has known how to work in silence,  avoiding the limelight.
(14.11) Mr Director-General, the difficulties which you, and the Third World as a  whole, have encountered during your term of office and in whose crucible your spirit  was tempered in assuming your responsibilities at the head of this Organization,  were, as I have already said, to be expected. It is impossible to build a new order  on the debris of an old, out-dated structure without effort, struggle, patience and  conviction. This is the price, that has to be paid for any innovation that merits a  place in the annals of history. New ideas do not become established through  slogans, applause and self-congratulation - which quickly degenerates into a  destructive narcissism - but, rather, through tenacity of purpose, which some may  see as stubbornness, and a courageous stand, which sometimes appears to be a risky  venture whose outcome is unpredictable. Whatever the case, it should suffice for  you to know with legitimate pride, Mr M'Bow, that you held the attention of the  world for a period of time and that your name has been on everyone's lips, whether  we are thinking of your friends and supporters from the Third World and from the  industrially advanced world, or by those who have sought to destroy through your  person the values in which you believe, the principles to which you are dedicated  and the concept of universality for which you have fought.
(14.12) Mr Director-General, you may rest assured that you are leaving this place  with the same respect 'and esteem as when you first entered it. Our good wishes go  with you on your departure just as our applause welcomed you on your arrival.  History will record the fact that you helped to prepare this Organization for the  great challenges which are emerging at the close of this century and which it will  be unable to meet fully unless it succeeds in mobilizing universal goodwill and  guards against all ideological prejudice, cultural chauvinism and any temptation to  hegemony and domination. Thank you.
(15) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank Mr Brahimi El-Mili, who spoke on behalf of Group V(b).  H.E. Minister René Monory, who will speak on behalf of the host country, France, now  has the floor.
16.1 M. MONORY (France) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, c'est en qualité  de représentant du pays hôte de l'Unesco que j'ai l'honneur de m'adresser à vous  ce matin.
16.7 Lors de chacune des sessions précédentes de la Conférence générale, la  coutume voulait - et ce n'était que justice - que l'on rendît hommage à l'action  que vous meniez à la tete de l'organisation. Aujourd'hui, notre témoignage de  reconnaissance prend un caractère différent parce qu'il est prononcé dans des  circonstances exceptionnelles.
16.3 I1 ne s'agit plus seulement, en effet, d'évoquer votre engagement ou  vos initiatives dans des projets de programme ou de commenter les resultats de  l'exercice qui s'achève. I1 s'agit de saluer, avant qu'il se retire, celui qui
806    a, pendant plus de vingt ans, joué un rôle éminent dans cette Organisation à des  niveaux et avec des responsabilités variés : en qualité de membre du Conseil  exécutif, de président de la Commission du programme et des relations exté-  rieures, puis de sous-directeur général pour l'éducation et enfin, depuis 1974,  de directeur général de l'Unesco.
16.4 Cette longue et impressionnante carrière vous a donné l'occasion de  résider longtemps dans notre pays et d'y approfondir les liens d'intimité déjà  anciens que vous aviez avec la France : vos études, votre formation universi-  taire, votre engagement courageux et, je le souligne, volontaire, aux côtés des  défenseurs de la liberté, votre illustration de la francophonie avaient, en  effet, déjà fait de vous un grand ami de la France. Votre séjour à la tête de  l'Unesco n'a pas dementi cette relation privilégiée que vous entretenez avec  notre pays.
16.5 Aussi n'hésiterai-je pas, puisque vous la connaissez si bien, à rappe-  ler, Monsieur le Directeur général, combien la France est attachée à l'Unesco  dont elle est l'un des fondateurs et combien elle demeure convaincue de la  nécessité d'en preserver l'intégrité et la spécificité, et cette universalité  qui est sa vocation première.
16.6 En réfléchissant sur la période que recouvrent vos deux mandats, chacun  de nous, ici, peut constater l'ampleur de l'évolution de l'Organisation, la com-  plexité des problèmes auxquels elle a eu à faire face, les contraintes et les  difficultés que pareille croissance suscite inévitablement. Quand vous avez pris  vos fonctions de Directeur général, l'Unesco s'apprêtait à aborder l'un des  tournants de son histoire. Par dizaines, de nouveaux Etats indépendants allaient  devenir membres de l'organisation. C'était l'époque OU l'on commençait à parler  de "choc de cultures" et ob s'esquissait le dialogue Nord-Sud. Le monde était en  crise et les Nations Unies étaient plus que jamais porteuses d'espoirs.
16.7 Alors que l'on pouvait craindre de voir apparaître des clivages, voire  des affrontements, vous avez eu le soin de prôner la recherche du consensus et  de l'accord négocié par étapes. Vous savez que nous partageons votre conception  de l'intérêt commun, d'autant plus qu'elle a permis, au cours de ces années,  d'éviter certains blocages ou le risque d'exclusions inadmissibles. Nul ne peut  contester pareils résultats. Ils sont à l'honneur de l'organisation et, à travers  elle, de celui qui en avait la principale responsabilité.
16.8 Vous avez souvent parlé de la "polyphonie des voix", de la tension entre  deux pôles - celui de l'universalité et celui de la diversité - et vous avez  toujours eu conscience que le "devenir des sociétés contemporaines s'étend aux  dimensions de la planete", pour reprendre vos propres termes. C'est une philoso-  phie que beaucoup, ici, partagent et qui reflete les principes mêmes sur lesquels  a été fondée notre Organisation.
16.9 Vous avez su comprendre, souvent avant d'autres, que les facteurs socio-  culturels allaient occuper dans l'analyse de la situation mondiale, et particu-  lièrement les stratégies de développement, une place de plus en plus détermi-  nante ; vous en avez conclu que l'Unesco devait tenir compte de cette évolution  dans l'accomplissement de sa mission et, vous l'avez dit vous-même, qu'elle  devait exprimer "l'égale dignité de toutes les cultures". Cet hommage que nous  vous rendons aujourd'hui n'aurait pas été complet sans le rappel de ce que nous  vous devons dans tous ces domaines.
16.10 Monsieur le Directeur général, à travers vous, c'est bien entendu votre  personne que nous saluons et votre travail. Mais c'est aussi non seulement au  pays, mais également au continent que vous représentez que va cet hommage. Vous  avez pris place parmi les nombreuses et éminentes personnalités africaines qui  ont su s'imposer sur la scène internationale et la marquer de leur passage. A la  tête de l'Unesco, vous avez réussi à transmettre, à faire vivre les traditions,  les richesses du continent dont vous êtes le fils et dont la contribution à la  civilisation universelle est unanimement reconnue. A travers vous, beaucoup  auront appris à mieux comprendre, à mieux connaître, au sens que Claudel donnait  à ce mot, les valeurs de l'Afrique qui pour certains d'entre nous étaient déjà  chères et qui sont apparues encore plus indispensables dans un monde comme le  nôtre.
16.11 J'évoquais à l'instant la pratique du consensus que vous avez cherché à  faire prévaloir : je pourrais aussi mentionner votre aptitude à communiquer qui  se traduit par beaucoup de chaleur, beaucoup d'enthousiasme, mais qui ne perd  jamais la hauteur de vues ou le sens de la dignité.
16.12 Est-ce à l'homme que vous êtes, Monsieur le Directeur général, à votre  personnalité façonnée par votre propre histoire et par vos rencontres, ou au  patrimoine culturel qui est en vous, que vous devez votre humanisme et votre
807    remarquable indépendance d'esprik ? Je laisse ouverte la réponse, sachant  qu'elle ne peut être simple et que vous avez su montrer que votre appréciation  des hommes et des choses a été inspirée par des considérations propres à votre  charge.
16.13 En rappelant ici votre contribution à la cause internationale, je vou-  drais souligner qu'elle a su intégrer une dimension dont notre Premier ministre  a souvent évoqué le caractère prioritaire à nos yeux : à savoir ia prise en  compte, par-delà l'Afrique, de l'ensemble du tiers monde et de ses préoccupations  légitimes.
16.14 Enfin, dans cet hommage public que l'on vous rend aujourd'hui et auquel,  par ma voix, la France s'associe, comment pourrais-je oublier - dût sa discrétion  en souffrir - celle qui a été 6 vos côtés pendant ces années où vous avez-exercé  votre lourde charge, Mme M'Bow, à qui va aussi notre témoignage de gratitude et  toute notre admiration.
16.15 Monsieur le Directeur général, c'est en revenant à l'Unesco que je vou-  drais conclure mon propos. La crise qui s'est emparée de l'Organisation, il. y a  quatre ans, n'est certainement que l'un des éléments d'une remise en cause, fort  préoccupante, de tout le système de coopération multilatérale. Mais c'est  l'Unesco qui a été à ce jour la plus atteinte. Si l'on peut dire qu'elle commence  maintenant à se ressaisir, c'est parce que devant l'épreuve, loin de vous  démettre de vos fonctions, vous avez tenu le gouvernail. C'est la raison pour  laquelle, sans doute, nous nous sommes tous ensemble - et d'un commun accord -  attachés 6 préserver l'institution et que nous nous sommes lucidement engagés - avec vous-même, est-il besoin de le souligner ? - dans un processus de réformes  indispensables. Ces réformes, l'avenir seul pourra nous dire jusqu'oÙ elles  auront à être menées pour que l'Unesco retrouve la place et la vocation qui lui  reviennent et soit un instrument adapté aux exigences du monde moderne.
16.16 Aussi permettez-moi de conclure en reprenant des paroles que vous avez  prononcées il y a quelques années, à propos de l'Unesco : "I1 nous appartient,  sur notre terrain propre, celui de l'esprit, de conjuguer nos forces et nos  volontés dans l'inlassable quête d'une humanité responsable de son destin."  Monsieur le Directeur général, y a-t-il, pour nous tous, plus noble objectif ?
(17) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I thank H.E.' Mr René Monory for his statement. The Secretary of the  Conference now has the floor to read a message sent by Javier Pérez de Cuéllar,  Secretary-General of the United Nations.
18.1 Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et  Messieurs, voici le message du Secrétaire général de l'organisation des Nations  Unies :  "Monsieur le Directeur général et cher ami, au moment où vous vous  apprêtez à prendre congé de l'Unesco, je voudrais encore vous dire com-  bien, aux Nations Unies, nous tenons en haute estime et apprécions la  précieuse et étroite collaboration que vous n'avez cessé d'encourager  et de renforcer entre nos deux organisations. Je voudrais plus spécia-  lement rendre hommage à votre engagement personnel et à votre attache-  ment exemplaire aux nobles idéaux de l'Unesco que vous avez servie avec  une si haute idée de votre mission et de vos fonctions.  Durant ces treize années, les activités de l'Unesco se sont en  effet développées et multipliées, en même temps .que croissait le nombre  de ses Etats membres et, par conséquent, ses responsabilités. Au COuLs  de vos deux mandats successifs, vous avez su soutenir les objectifs de  coopération intellectuelle fixés par les fondateurs de l'Unesco, et ce,  par des actions aussi déterminantes que la lutte contre l'analphabé-  tisme, la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel mondial, les nombreux Pro-  grammes scientifiques et de formation, sans oublier les programmes de  développement de la communication et de l'informatique récemment  élaborés.  En dépit des épreuves qu'elle a traversées, l'Unesco, sous votre  haute direction, a su pleinement jouer son rôle et vous pouvez légiti-  mement vous enorgueillir de la tâche combien ardue que la COmmunaUté
25  internationale vous a, par deux fois, confiée et que vous avez assumée  avec talent et courage.  Je ne doute pas que des années actives et fructueuses vous attendent  et forme donc les voeux les plus sincères pour vos entreprises futures,  votre bonheur personnel et.celui de votre famille.  Veuillez agréer, Monsieur le Directeur général et cher ami, l'aSSU-  rance de ma haute considération et de mes sentiments les plus cordiaux."  (signé)  Javier Pérez de Cuéllar
18.2 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, d'autres messages (cités  dans l'ordre de leur réception) ont été envoyés par les personnalités suivantes :  M. Mohamed Fayek, Secrétaire général de l'organisation arabe pour les droits de  l'homme, M. Ahmed Kadry, Président de l'organisation des antiquités égyptienneSI  M. Salah Galal, Président de l'union des journalistes africains, M. Mohi Ed Dine  Saber, Directeur général de Z'ALECSO, M. Mohamed A. Rascheed, Directeur général  du Bureau arabe d'éducation pour les pays du golfe, M. Candido Mendes, Président  du Conseil international des sciences sociales, M. Gonzalo Abad Grijalva, Prési-  dent de la fédération mondiale des associations, centres et clubs Unesco,  M. Chadli Klibi, Secrétaire de la Ligue des Etats arabes, M. Nguyen Dy Nien,  Président de la Commission nationale vietnamienne pour l'Unesco, M. José Sarney,  Président de la République federative du Brésil, et Mme. Osange Silou, Presidente  de Invariance noire - Rencontres noires intercontinentales. Le texte des messages  des chefs d'Etat ou de gouvernement sera consigné dans l'édition définitive des  actes de la Conférence générale/l. Merci Monsieur le Président.
(19) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Harris, Chairman of the NGO Standing Committee.  Thank you very much, Mr Secretary. I now give the floor to Mr Robert
20.1 Mr HARRIS (Standing Committee of International Non-Governmental  Organizations in Consultative Relationship (Categories A and b) with  Unesco) :  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive  Board, distinguished representatives of Member States, fellow representatives of  non-governmental organizations, ladies and gentlemen, somewhere, at this very  moment, in a village, a child hopes to become a teacher. Somewhere, in a shanty  on a hillside overlooking a teeming city, a child has a chance to learn. Some-  where, on a distant plain, another child contemplates the stars, unaware still  that one day he or she will contribute to the advancement of science on this  planet. And, beside a river on another continent, yet another child feels the  first stirrings of curiosity about the culture of his or her ancestors.
20.2 These, and many other children, represent not only the future but also  the human aspect of Unesco. An intense appreciation of the human aspect of Unesco  is what the Director-General has shared steadfastly with the non-governmental  community since the beginning of his service to the Organization.
20.3 Mr Director-General, some months ago, we stood together in your home  town. You pointed across the roof-tops of Dakar and said, 'You see, Harris, I was  born over there! ' And you became a teacher. A teacher, director of a teachers'  college, international civil servant, minister of government, executive head of  the United Nations agency mandated to maintain, increase and diffuse knowledge.  This career was traced during a period of incalculable change in human affairs.
20.4 As you completed your studies in Paris, the peoples of three continents  were seeking to build new societies after the passage of war, and the tide was  turned irreversibly in the struggle against colonialism. You were at the fore-  front, among those who looked beyond the achievement of political independence to  the attainment of mutual respect among peoples of different cultural identities,  some of whom were formerly the colonizers, and some of whom were formerly the  colonizeä.
1. Voir l'Annexe au présent compte rendu.
20.5 This is why Unesco could never be, for you, simply a development agency.  This is why the mission of Unesco always had a deeper significance. As the world  emerged from colonialism, it was essential that all peoples be able to' partici-  pate in that sharing of knowledge, that intercourse of ideas, which Unesco was  designed to promote.
20.6 It was essential that the original concept of Unesco as an organization  founded upon the intellectual and moral solidarity of humanity be defended and  promoted for all peoples. The pursuit of Unesco's mission required the partici-  pation of men and women of science and letters, of educators, artists and  communicators. That participation was to be sought through the National  Commissions and the non-governmental organizations.
20.7 You have many friends in the non-governmental community. From near and  far, they have asked that their sentiments be expressed to you through these  words of mine.
20.8 Throughout your years of service to the Organization, you have  consistently, repeatedly, emphasized the importance of co-operation with non-  governmental organizations and with the intellectual and popular movements which  they represent. You have met the representatives of our crganizations many times,  individually aria collectively, and from such meetings emerged that sense of  shared concern for the human aspect of Unesco's work, the impact of Unesco's  programme upon the lives, the hopes, the identities, the values of men and women,  boys and girls in all parts of the world.
20.9 I often wished that this sense of concern for the human aspect of  Unesco's work might have been better perceived and conveyed in the press and  other media.
20.10 Representatives of Member States have spoken of your command of the  complexities of a major agency, which we have also witnessed, as we did your  readiness to stand firm in the face of pressure against the idea of multilateral  co-operation. In 1984, a year of difficulty, we met together with an eminent  American, a colleague of mine and a friend. The discussion was open and frank. My  colleague concluded by urging you to stand firm. And you did. It was of the  greatest importance that a firm stand be taken iri defence of multilateral co-  operation. I am convinced that history will reveal the significance of the stand  which you took and will demonstrate also the principles and the concepts upon  which that stand was based. History will show the full measure of your  stewardship.
20.11 Your service as Director-General of Unesco placed you at the centre of  the struggles of the age. This has been and continues to be an epoch-niaking time  in the eternal struggle of humanity for peace and progress. A time when ,human  rights became recognized and codified universally for the first time in human  history, but when much remained to be done to preserve and defend those rights. A  time when racism came to be identified and rejected as the antithesis of civiliz-  ation and moral values, but mistrust and suspicion had yet to be replaced in the  minds of many, in the hearts of many, by mutual respect. A time when it came to  be recognized that the peaceful solution of conflicts was no longer a question of  preference but an imperative for survival.
20.12 Cormunication between peoples ceased to be the privilege of a few  travellers and became a commonplace feature of a new global community, slowly  becoming conscious of the interdependence of its national parts. You maintained  that only through the joining of peoples in pursuit of common goals could the  aspirations of our time be translated into reality.
20.13 As new generations take up the task and work towards the attainment of  the noble goals for which Unesco was founded, they will build upon the work of  these years. We know that you will not rest. Your reflections on the issues of  times past and present will inform the considerations of those who must now face  the difficulties which lie ahead.
20.14 And, today, in different regions of the world, in villages, towns and  cities, children are growing up with the chance to take their turn in contribut-  ing to the human adventure. The fact that children from all continents can today  expect to participate in the human community, in the common future of humanity,  is in no small measure due to the work and dedication of Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow.
20.15 On behalf of the non-governmental community, I express our gratitude,  our appreciation, and our best wishes to you and your family for the future.
(21) The PRESIDENT (Translation for the Spanish):  Mr Michel de Bonnecorse, Deputy Director-General.  Thank you very much, Mr Harris for your statement. I now give the floor to
22.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL ADJOINT :  Messieurs les Présidents, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, Monsieur le  Directeur général, tout hommage bute sur une difficulté. Comment éviter que trop  de mots ne viennent diluer l'essentiel ? Comment éviter que trop de précisions  ne viennent brouiller l'image et la mémoire, de même qu'une lumière trop vive  surexpose la photographie ? Aussi de cet hommage que vous adresse le personnel  mais qui, par la force des choses, est d'abord le mien et celui de vos proches,  je voudrais qu'on ne retienne que trois mots qui serviront de trame a mon  propos : vous êtes un caractère, vous êtes une énigme, vous êtes une passion.
22.2 Vous êtes d'abord un caractère, je veux dire un homme de caractère.  Monsieur le Directeur général, s'achève désormais pour vous une longue et lourde  tâche. Elle vous situe dans une lignée, celle qui a façonné l'Unesco en quatre  décennies. En caractérisant d'un mot vos prédécesseurs lors de votre installa-  tion, vous preniez un risque, celui d'être vous aussi enfermé dans le carcan  d'un mot. Ce risque je vous l'inflige ici, aujourd'hui, non sans malice.
22.3 Selon vos propres dires, Huxley était l'homme de science, Torres-Bodet  l'homme de lettres, Evans le pragmatique, Veronese le lyrique, Maheu le rationa-  liste. Voici maintenant, entrant dans la galerie des portraits, Amadou-Mahtar  M'Bow, que j'oserai appeler le "visionnaire". Pourquoi ? Parce que j'ai été  frappé par votre quête inlassable d'une vision - ou bien s'agit-il d'un rêve ? -  celle d'une "humanité enfin réconciliée avec elle-même", pour reprendre la for-  mule sur laquelle se terminaient tant de vos discours.
22.4 D'autres qualificatifs auraient aussi parfaitement convenu : charisma-  tique, tenace, avocat du tiers monde, humaniste. Mais pour l'instant, et avant  de revenir sur le visionnaire, je préférerais souligner comment l'homme de  caractère a agi pour le personnel de l'Organisation. Je ne parle pas de celui  qui a internationalisé le Secrétariat, rééquilibré géographiquement sa distribu-  tion. L'oeuvre s'imposait, l'oeuvre s'est imposée. Je pourrais insister sur  l'engagement, entier et total, qui a été le vôtre pour obtenir le retour au Siege  de fonctionnaires internationaux retenus dans leur pays d'origine contre leur  volonté, voire par des geôliers. Je ne le ferai pas, car dans cette Maison, et  même dans cette salle, ils sont quelques-uns a savoir qu'ils vous doivent la  liberté et sans doute plus encore. A ma place, ils témoignent par leur présence  silencieuse. Je pourrais insister sur votre refus de céder aux pressions pourtant  vives et nombreuses qui s'exerçaient sur vous, visant à donner conge aux ressor-  tissants de certains Etats qui venaient justement de donner congé a l'organisa-  tion. Je ne le ferai pas. Ils sont ici plus de 80 britanniques, singapouriens ou  américains qui savent ce qu'ils nous doivent. A ma place, ils témoignent par leur  présence silencieuse.
22.5 En revanche, je voudrais insister particulièrement sur la manière dont  vous avez su préserver le personnel lorsqu'iï a fallu réduire le budget de  l'Unesco. La subite suppression de 800 postes pouvait faire craindre des licen-  ciements massifs, des drames individuels ou, 5 tout le moins, des déchirures  profondes au sein du Secrétariat. En agissant avec prudence, et avec humanité,  en facilitant les départs volontaires, en donnant à tous, quelle que soit la  nature de leur lien avec la Maison, des chances et des compensations égales, vous  avez su preserver la cohésion de l'organisation. Vous avez préféré la médecine  douce aux amputations brutales et, ce faisant, vous avez réussi à sauver le corps  tout entier, même s'il est demeuré affaibli. Cette thérapeutique paraît aujour-  d'hui évidente. Et pourtant l'exercice était osé. Des voies plus brutales  auraient pu être utilisées. Songeons seulement aux affres que connaît actuelle-  ment le personnel d'autres organisations, dont la Banque mondiale.
22.6 Faut-il également rappeler, Monsieur le Directeur general, votre action  constante pour l'amélioration des conditions d'emploi et du statut des fonction-  naires internationaux ? Dans l'ensemble des instances des Nations Unies, vous  êtes considéré comme le plus convaincant des avocats de la fonction publique  internationale, de ses regles et, je dirai, de sa dignité. Cela non plus, je ne  pouvais pas le passer sous silence encore que l'ensemble du personnel l'ait  parfaitement en mémoire, comme il sait aussi qu'il vous doit la création d'un  médiateur.
22.7 Energie, ténacité, conviction - tels sont sans doute quelques éléments  fondamentaux de votre caractère. Mais qu'eût été cette énergie sans le soutien,  toujours discret et toujours présent, de votre épouse qui a su vous préserver  des lassitudes et des amertumes, tout comme des tentations d'isolement ? Cet  hommage doit aussi être le sien, même si je suis convaincu qu'elle aurait préféré  le silence.
22.8 Mais, Monsieur le Directeur général, vous êtes aussi une énigme. Tout  homme est une île mais certains sont aussi des énigmes. Je crois, Monsieur le  Directeur général, que vous en renfermez plusieurs. La première est celle-ci :  comment se fait-il qu'à l'extérieur, la perception de votre personnalité ne soit  pas vraiment conforme à celle qu'en ont vos proches ? I1 y a en effet un décalage  entre l'image projetée de vous dans les médias et ce qui est la vérité de votre  personnage. J'ai recueilli d'innombrables témoignages parmi ceux qui vous ont  approché, qui vous ont servi, qui vous ont conseillé. Tous mettent en relief  votre chaleur, votre sens de l'humain, votre pouvoir de persuasion. Beaucoup  m'ont parle affection ; beaucoup m'ont parlé admiration. Oserai-je aussi men-  tionner vos vertus cachées - d'autres cachent leurs défauts - alors que la  pudeur, qui est aussi un des traits de votre caractère, les a soigneusement pré-  servées ? I1 me suffira de révéler que, sur vos deniers personnels, vous avez  créé un fonds privé qui délivre des bourses à des étudiants méritants du tiers  monde. I1 me suffira de mentionner que beaucoup de jeunes dans beaucoup de vil-  lages africains ont reçu, par un geste de votre part, ce qu'il fallait pour ne  plus désespérer du ciel et croire enfin à l'avenir.
22.9 La réponse est sans doute dans cette sorte de détachement que vous avez  vis-à-vis des journalistes. Réserve, instinct de préservation, ou refus de vous  livrer expliquent cette étrange indifference, par laquelle vous les avez  atteints. Le journaliste porte, je crois, sur tout sujet, le regard même que  celui-ci lui accorde. I1 ajuste sa plume à l'aune de la considération qui lui  est portée. Rassurez-vous ! En d'autres temps, les historiens, qui ne sont pas  les photographes de l'instant, vous rendront justice ici même comme en d'autres  lieux.
22.10 Une autre énigme encore. Avez-vous goûté la solitude du pouvoir ou en  avez-vous souffert ? Je ne me permettrai pas de répondre ; la réponse appartient  à vous seul. Je laisserai le poète français Jean de la Fontaine s'exprimer :  "Ne faut-il que délibérer,  La cour en conseillers foisonne ;  Est-il besoin de décider,  L'on ne rencontre plus personne."
22.11 Une troisième énigme : avez-vous souffert des tourments de la crise  politique ou, au contraire, y avez-vous puisé un surcroît de conviction et  d'énergie ? A cette question, je ne saurais davantage répondre. Vous être le seul  à pouvoir le faire. Peut-être Charles de Gaulle apporte-t-il un début de  réponse : "Face à l'événement, c'est à soi même que recourt l'homme de  c a r a c t è r e'' .
22.12 Ce que je sais, c'est que si vous avez pu ressentir le départ de cer-  tains Etats membres comme une amputation, celle-ci a été atténuée par le fait  que la communauté intellectuelle dans son ensemble ne vous a jamais fait défaut  et que rien ne changeait dans vos certitudes. Quelques idées-forces vous ont  soutenu. Celle-ci par exemple : dans la société internationale comme dans toute  société, il vaut mieux être solidaire que solitaire.
22.13 Mais la plus fabuleuse des énigmes demeure, pour ceux qui ne vous  connaissent pas, celle des voies mystérieuses qui ont conduit le petit écolier  de Louga, qui déchiffrait sous un réverbère ses leçons, jusqu'au sommet du  "phare" de la culture universelle que constitue l'Unesco. A cette énigme je peux  répondre : intelligence certes, volonté certes, mais surtout passion.
22.14 Cette passion, vous la tenez du coeur même, de votre continent :  l'Afrique, toute impatiente d'une ardeur trop longtemps contenue, toute vibrante  d'une jeunesse généreuse et inquiète. Bref, cette Afrique que j'aime, car elle  est à la fois joyeuse et grave. Cette Afrique attachante, car elle est à la fois  forte et sentimentale. Cette Afrique, vous ne pouviez la renier car nous sommes  tous tributaires de nos racines qui sont notre fierté et notre force. Vous vous  deviez à l'Afrique. Pardonnez-moi cette familiarité mais, puisqu'il s'agit de  l'Afrique, laissons-la parler 6 travers le proverbe azandé : "un éléphant est  fier de ses propres défenses". Si vous avez peut-être fait plus pour l'Afrique  que pour tout autre région, il faut vous en remercier, non pour elle, mais pour  les autres continents qui ont pu ainsi mieux la connaître et mieux la comprendre.
22.15 Monsieur le Directeur général, je disais en commençant quecvous étiez  un visionnaire - et c'est là que vision et passion se rejoignent. D'autant plus  que cette vision puisée dans votre enfance africaine est celle d'un monde où les  peuples ne seraient plus asservis, que ce soit par la force, par la faim ou par  l'ignorance. A ce propos, puisque je ne peux dresser votre bilan, laissez-moi  seulement dire un mot de votre action en faveur de l'éducation, et singulièrement  de l'alphabétisation. L'alphabétisation, vous avez compris qu'il s'agit d'une  seconde naissance, qu'elle conditionne tout depuis les relations au sein de la  famille, depuis la qualité du plus modeste labeur jusqu'aux plus hautes oeuvres  de l'esprit. N'oublions pas Rachid Boudjedra : "A quoi servent mes poèmes si ma  mère ne sait pas lire ?"
22.16 Ainsi toute votre action s'est ordonnée autour de cette vision. Vous  ,avez poursuivi avec l'Unesco, ce bel outil qui était entre vos mains, une action  quotidienne orientée vers un monde plus juste et des hommes plus dignes. Ne vous  résignant pas à ce que partout on tente de justifier la force, vous avez tenté  de fortifier la justice. Toujours, vous avez considéré que chaque homme doit se  trouver offensé de l'offense faite a la nature de l'homme. Inutile de souligner  à quel point la barre était haute ou le défi audacieux. Mais tel doit être un  visionnaire. Tel doit être un passionné.
22.17 I1 me faut conclure. Je ne sais par quelle fatale coïncidence vous avez
6th appelé, i l  y a treize ans, à prendre la tête de l'organisation au moment même  OU débutait une crise mondiale. I1 aurait été miraculeux que l'Unesco puisse y  échapper. Au contraire, parce qu'elle se situe au confluent des espoirs comme des  tensions, l'Unesco était par sa nature même appelée, dans un environnement mon-  dial fantasque et récessif, à décevoir les premiers et à exacerber les secondes.  L'affaire a été rude, les critiques ont été acerbes, les insuffisances mises en  lumière. Le personnel a 6th secoue. I1 a fallu faire des consessions, abandonner  des projets, limiter des ambitions. L'Organisation a été mise à nu et ses objec-  tifs attaqués dans leur éthique même. Elle a 6th blessée non seulement dans sa  chair, mais aussi dans son âme.
22.18 Mais l'essentiel a été maintenu. Le personnel protégé, le programme  épargné, l'avenir préservé : voilà qui s'appelle affronter ia crise la tête  haute.
22.19 Monsieur le Directeur général, s'il est vrai que votre pays tire son  nom du wolof "Suunugal" (ma pirogue), vous me permettrez pour conclure de mêler  cette image à une citation de Jean Jaurès : "un fleuve n'est fidèle à sa source  qu'en allant à la mer". Pour rester fidèle au fleuve Sénégal, vous avez détaché  votre pirogue de ses bords africains pour l'engager dans ces eaux mêlées et  encore tumultueuses des différentes cultures qui tentent de forger l'océan de la  civilisation universelle. Sur cet océan que tous nous souhaitons pacifique, vous  avez laissé une trace et indiqué un cap.
22.20 Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, partez apaisé car ce cap demeurera une référence  dans bien des esprits. Quittez-nous dans la sérénité car cette trace demeurera  au-delà de l'écume des jours.
(23)  who will inform us of further messages received.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Deputy Director-General. I give the floor to the Secretary,
24. Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et  Messieurs, d'autres messages ont été reçus de la part des personnalités sui-  vantes : M. Oscar Arias Sanchez, président de la République du Costa-Rica,  Mme Elisa Valle de Martinez Pavetti, ministre de l'éducation du Honduras,  M. Manuel Solis Palma, ministre de l'éducation du Panama, M. Herminio Trigo  Aguilar, maire de la ville de Cordoue (Espagne) et M. Raoul Manglapus, ministre  des affaires étrangères des Philippines. Merci.
(25.1) The PRESIDEm (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr Secretary. Distinguished delegates, I will now submit for  the approval of the General Conference the draft resolution which I had the honour  to read to you at the beginning of this ceremony.
(25.2) The resolution is amroved.
(25.3) I now give the floor to Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, the Director-General of  Unesco.
26.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président  du Conseil exécutif, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, chers COllègeS et per-  mettez-moi d'ajouter chers, amis, vous le devinez, c'est un homme très ému qui  vous parle. Emu par les paroles si chaleureuses qui viennent de lui être adres-  sées, comme par les circonstances dans lesquelles il les reçoit. Ce départ n'est  certes pas, pour moi, la fin de l'immense intérêt que je porte au devenir de  l'Unesco. Mais c'est une page tournée, celle où mes pensées et mes actes, mes  jours et mes nuits, ma vie de chaque instant, ont 6th pleinement et exclusivement  dédiés à son service. Désormais, c'est 2 ses côtés mais en dehors d'elle, que je  servirai, avec la même foi, les idéaux que proclame son Acte constitutif et qui  constituent sa raison d'être.
26.2 Avant de prendre congé, je voudrais remercier, du fond du coeur, les  Etats membres qui, par deux fois, m'ont élu au poste de Directeur général, la  Conférence générale et le Conseil exécutif avec lesquels j'ai toujours travaillé  en étroite collaboration et en pleine transparence, les organisations inter-  nationales gouvernementales et non gouvernementales, dont l'apport est si pré-  cieux à la pensée et 6 l'action de l'Unesco et, enfin, tous ceux qui, au cours  de ces années parfois difficiles, m'ont apporté leurs encouragements ,et le  réconfort de leur amitié.
26.3 Je tiens aussi à dire toute ma reconnaissance à tous ceux qui se sont  exprimés ce matin, au président de la Conférence générale, au président du  Conseil exécutif, aux représentants des groupes régionaux et aux groupes qui les  ont mandatés, aux représentants des organisations non gouvernementales et à mon  collègue, M. de Bonnecorse, qui a parle au nom des membres du Secrétariat. Vous  me permettrez aussi de faire une mention particulière pour le représentant du  pays hôte, M. Pierre Monory. Je suis très sensible aux paroles qu'il a prononcées  ici même et je voudrais lui redire toute mon amitié pour le peuple de ce pays  auquel je suis profondément attaché et avec lequel, au cours de toute ma vie,  j'ai été en bien des cas en symbiose.
26.4 Je voudrais dire aussi à mes collègues +du Secrétariat ma fierté d'avoir  partagé avec eux la lourde responsabilité de la marche de l'organisation et ma  joie d'avoir découvert, parmi eux, autant de collaborateurs compétents et dévoués  au service international que d'amis très sincères.
26.5 Vous me permettrez aussi d'avoir, en cet instant solennel, une pensée  pour ma femme, dont le nom a été évoqué si souvent ce matin, et pour mes enfants,  qui ont si bien compris et assumé les servitudes de ma fonction. Mon épouse, qui  partage depuis 37 ans l'aventure de ma vie, aura fait bien plus que m'offrir une  affection de tous les instants, un soutien toujours inébranlable. Sa présence  auprès de moi, son éthique exigeante et sereine, son sens aigu de l'humain,  m'auront en toute circonstances, en particulier aux heures d'incertitude et  d'interrogation, aide à voir plus clair et plus loin, à éviter les écueils, à  surmonter les épreuves, à maintenir le cap sur ia vérité.
26.6 Je tiens par ailleurs à rendre hommage à M. Yaqoub-Khan, ancien ministre  pakistanais des affaires étrangères, dont l'attitude élégante a fortement con-  tribué & dépassionner et à clarifier les enjeux de l'élection du nouveau Direc-  teur général.
26.7 Enfin, je voudrais adresser à mon successeur mes voeux les plus chaleu-  reux de succès. Pour avoir intimement connu le .candidat proposé par le Conseil  exécutif, M. Federico Mayor, qui pendant plusieurs années a travaillé à mes  côtés comme Directeur général adjoint, pour avoir pu apprécier en lui le cher-  cheur et l'éducateur, mais aussi l'homme de coeur, je me réjouis à l'idée que la  Conférence générale s'apprête 6 porter 2 la tête du Secrétariat un homme en  mesure de servir les idéaux de l'Organisation avec intelligence et générosité.  Je réitère ici l'appel que j'ai lancé avant-hier devant le Conseil exécutif,  pour que les organes directeurs de l'organisation lui apportent tout le soutien  dont il aura besoin pour faire face aux tâches complexes qui l'attendent.
26.8 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, en me préparant à monter  sur cette tribune pour voiis remettre le mandat que vous m'avez confié, j'ai été
25  tenté de jeter avec vous un long regard sur les treize années passées comme  Directeur général de cette Organisation, de faire devant vous un bilan de cette  exaltante aventure. Mais j'ai pensé que je devais résister à cette tentation. Et  ce, pour deux raisons au moins. La première est qu'une expérience aussi intense,  aussi pleine de vie et de sens, ne se laisse pas résumer en quelques minutes. La  seconde est que son bilan requiert du recul, et le tranquille détachement dont  ce recul s'accompagne, alors que cet instant est pour nous tous si fortement  chargé d'émotion.
26.9 Seuls, peut-être, méritent d'être évoqués ici certains moments de ma  Vie qui m'apparaissent soudain, aujourd'hui, comme des moments privilégiés. Non,  certes, qu'ils aient quoi que ce soit d'exemplaire, mais plutôt parce qu'ils  jalonnent un itinéraire typique : celui d'un homme du tiers monde qui s'initie  peu 6 peu au monde, qui parcourt lentement la distance entre son appartenance à  l'Afrique et son allégeance à l'humanité.
26.10 De ma naissance à mon élection au poste de Directeur général de  l'Unesco, ce qui me semble emerger avec le plus d'évidence, c'est sans doute  l'ambivalence de chacun des tournants de cette traversée du siècle. Chaque  ouverture aura été un déchirement et chaque rupture l'occasion d'une fidélité  renouvelée ; chaque élan vers le large m'aura ramené plus fortement vers mes  sources et chaque retour à moi-même m'aura permis de mieux sentir la vibration  qui me relie aux hommes de partout.
26.11 Je me revois a huit ans, tenant la main de mon père qui me conduit pour  la première fois à l'école régionale de Louga. Mon père en qui s'incarnent les  continuités du monde africain, ses vertus et ses traditions les plus profondes,  sa foi ia plus pure et sa spiritualité la plus intense, mon père qui ne parle  pas français, et qui, après m'avoir confié à l'école coranique, m'emmène vers  l'école laïque française.
26.12 Je me rappelle, une décennie plus tard, la découverte physique de la  métropole, cette plage de moi inconnue ou je débarque, avec quelques autres  Sénégalais engagés volontaires, pour défendre une cause qui, 5 première vue,  n'est pas la nôtre, mais que d'emblée nous avons adoptée, au nom de ces valeurs  de liberté, d'égalité et de fraternité qui sont alors interdites chez nous, mais  qui nous paraissent si vitales à préserver, fût-ce chez les autres, pour  commencer.
26.13 C'est pourquoi un de mes regrets de cette époque, c'est d'avoir tenté  vainement, en juin et juillet 1940, alors que ia France souffrait à Son tour  d'une domination pesante, de n'avoir pas réussi, depuis la Bretagne, à rejoindre  un homme qui incarnait l'honneur de son pays et dont le nom a et6 évoqué tout à  l'heure, le général de Gaulle, mais je le retrouverai plus tard avec l'armée  d'Afrique.
26.14 Je me souviens, la guerre terminée, d'un Paris inondé de soleil, ou mes  pas me conduisent d'abord à 1'Ecole supérieure de mécanique et d'électricité,  puis, 5 force de travail et de volonté, vers la Sorbonne. Je me souviens de  l'émotion qui s'empare de moi quand j'y pénètre, avec le sentiment soudain d'en-  trer dans l'intimité de Voltaire et de Hugo, de cette soif d'apprendre, de com-  prendre peut-être le terrible paradoxe qui fait que la patrie des droits de  l'homme ait pu être le siège d'un Empire colonial au sein duquel tant d'injus-  tices ont été commises et tant de peuples baillonnés. C'est alors que j'ai  découvert des hommes et des femmes, des maîtres et des camarades, qui m'ont donné  de la France une autre image qui devait désormais rester gravée dans ma mémoire.  Et aujourd'hui encore, je m'honore de compter dans ce pays de nombreux amis dont  la fidélité ne s'est jamais démentie et parmi lesquels vous me permettrez de  citer le chef du gouvernement actuel, M. le Premier ministre Jacques Chirac ; et  j'aimerais demander à M. René Monory de lui dire toute mon amitié et tous mes  sentiments de reconnaissance pour la compréhension dont il a toujours fait preuve  à l'égard de l'Unesco.
26.15 Puis, quelque quinze ans plus tard, le Sénégal fête son indépendance.  Je me retrouve partageant la joie de tous, mais saisi d'inquiétude devant les  problèmes qui s'annoncent sans pouvoir être résolus, les espoirs qui s'entrouvent  et qui vont se refermer, les promesses qui ne pourront pas être tenues.
26.16 Mais l'indépendance, c'est d'abord, pour tout un peuple, le passage  nécessaire vers la double conquête de son identité et de sa mondialité ; C'est  le début de l'exploration d'un univers qui, jusque là, s'est résumé au terrible  face-à-face d'une colonie et de sa métropole et qui, désormais, S'élargit aux  dimensions de la planète ; c'est la lente ouverture d'un horizon que cesse de  barrer une présence exclusive, pour laisser peu à peu émerger mille présences  amies.
26.17 Mon entrée à l'Unesco, où je suis d'abord choisi comme membre du Conseil  exécutif, puis nommé sous-directeur général - grâce à la confiance de mon prédé-  cesseur, M. René Maheu, à la mémoire duquel je tiens à rendre hommage une fois  de plus -, et enfin élu directeur général, cette entrée à l'Unesco m'apparaît  ainsi, aujourd'hui, comme un achèvement, comme l'accomplissement d'un itinéraire  menant de l'apprentissage à la responsabilité, de l'affirmation de soi à la  découverte de la diversité, du service national au service international.
26.18 Comment ne pas vous dire, ici, ce que mes prédécesseurs ont découvert  avant moi, et qu'à mon tour j'ai vécu comme une fervente évidence ? L'Unesco est  un lieu absolument unique de rencontres et d'échanges. Unique en ce que ren-  contres et échanges, ici, ne portent pas seulement sur des idées ; qu'ils con-  frontent des esprits et des coeurs ; qu'ils touchent à des convictions profondes,  à des blessures secrètes ; qu'ils ébranlent de proche en proche tout le réseau  de vérités entrecroisées où la communauté internationale se révèle à elle-même.  L'Unesco est un diamant solitaire, qui brille de tous les feux de nos angoisses  créatrices, comme de l'éclat recomposé de tous nos espoirs communs.
26.19 Au cours des années de ma vie, que vous m'avez offert l'occasion magni-  fique de mettre au service de cette Organisation, il m'a été donné de parcourir  les continents et de traverser les mers, de visiter les pays les plus fortunés  et les Plus pauvres, de rencontrer les puissants et les humbles. ,J'ai vu, sous  les cieux les plus divers, les hommes affronter des problèmes différents, des  soucis spécifiques. Mais le sentiment qui partout s'est imposé à moi au fil des  jours, de plus en plus fort, comme une lumineuse vérité, c'est celui des liens  qui les rattachent mystérieusement les uns aux autres, souvent à leur insu ;  c'est celui de leur unite essentielle. Voici encore, dirait mon collègue  M. de Bonnecorse, le visionnaire.
26.20 Au Nord comme au Sud, dans la richesse comme dans la pauvreté, à travers  les diverses cultures, au-delà des disparités sociales et économiques, je retiens  partout, je retiens d'abord, des hommes passionnément épris de liberté, de vérité  et de plénitude, des hommes qui pressentent désormais que, quelle que soit la  nature de leurs problèmes immédiats, quelles que soient leurs convictions reli-  gieuses ou philosophiques, ils sont égaux en droit, en dignité et en créativité.  Et qu'ils sont, dès lors, susceptibles de construire l'avenir ensemble.
26.21 Mais la distance est encore longue à parcourir entre cet avenir possible  et la réalité présente. Entre la tremblante promesse d'humanité unie que je lis  pourtant, déjà, sur tant de visages et la trame des méfiances, des divisions et  des conflits qui composent notre actualité quotidienne. C'est sans doute que  pèsent encore sur nous, trop lourdement, le poids des égoïsmes nationaux, nourris  par les incompréhensions du passé, le fardeau d'inégalités économiques et tech-  nologiques, qui profitent à certains au détriment de tous les autres, la poussée  contradictoire de ceux qui veulent maintenir les choses en l'état et de ceux qui  s'efforcent de les changer.
26.22 I1 m'a toujours semblé que l'Unesco pouvait - et devait - être l'espace  par excellence où l'espoir d'une solidarité à l'échelle humaine prendrait corps,  au fil des jours, à l'intersection de projets au départ diver,gents.
26.23 On peut, certes, réduire l'Organisation à moins que cela, se suffire  d'y expédier les affaires courantes et dès lors, laisser passer ce qui fait,  selon moi, l'essentiel de la vocation de cette Maison. On peut s'habituer à la  facilité : se contenter d'aider, ici, à la création d'une école et là, à la mise  sur pied d'un laboratoire de recherche, d'organiser des rencontres techniques et  de ne retenir enfin que des projets à rentabilité évidente, mequrable.
26.24 On peut se convaincre que la vision qui a présidé 6 la naissance de  l'Unesco, et plus généralement, du système des Nations Unies, n'est plus  d'actualité, qu'elle est trop belle pour être vraie, que les élans fraternels de  l'après-guerre n'ont plus place dans un monde où triomphent, trop souvent, le  chacun pour soi et la loi du plus fort.
26.25 On peut même finir par oublier que c'est à la faveur d'un tel état  d'esprit qu'ont mûri les conditions d'éclatement des deux guerres mondiales et  que c'est précisément pour éviter le déclenchement d'une troisième guerre que  les Nations Unies s'efforcent, depuis quarante ans, de combattre l'action corro-  sive de tous les égocentrismes en préservant la foi dans la solidarité active de  toutes les nations.
26.26 I1 est infiniment plus difficile de s'arc-bouter a cette foi, de main-  tenir coûte que coûte l'organisation à la lisière indécise entre les forces  d'inertie d'une réalité souvent dramatique et les élans d'une utopie généreuse,  de sauvegarder l'idéal de solidarité intellectuelle et morale qui fonde sa raison  d'être en privilégiant les cheminements par lesquels tous les partenaires d'un
81 6    débat sont peu à peu amenés à se connaître, 2 se comprendre, à se transformer  les uns les autres, à découvrir les terrains d'action qui leur sont communs. I1  est infiniment plus difficile d'aller jusqu'au bout d'une franche explication,  de subir la longue pression d'un affrontement intellectuel pour, à la fin,  assister à la naissance d'une grande idée, porteuse de plus de justice et de  nouveau progrès, qui n'appartient en propre à aucun pays, mais où la communauté  internationale tout entière se reconnaît.
26.27 Dans le cours de ce processus, le Directeur général est parfois amené à  vivre, dans sa chair et dans son esprit, toutes les tensions de cet affrontement,  incarnant pour les uns l'ultime recours et pour les autres ia victime expiatoire.  Je ne vous dirai pas la solitude qu'il lui arrive alors d'éprouver. C'est sa  responsabilité et c'est aussi son honneur. Je veux seulement proclamer ici la  conviction que j'en tire, à savoir que l'Unesco a été faite, non pour expédier  des affaires courantes, mais pour changer l'improbable en possible, et qu'on  n'utilise pas un Stradivarius pour faire des gammes. L'humanité peut, certes,  décider qu'il lui suffit de vivre au jour le jour. L'Unesco lui serait alors .  inutile. Et Mozart sans doute aussi.
26.28 Mais si, comme je le crois, l'humanité a besoin d'un lieu où dépasser  ses divisions et ses provincialismes et retrouver, au coeur même de sa diversité,  le sens intime de son unité, alors elle préservera et renforcera l'Unesco ; alors  elle y cherchera les occasions, toujours renouvelées, de se rassembler en se  transcendant.
26.29 Pourrais-je, en quelques mots, faire ressortir les conclusions que j'ai  tirées des treize années passées a la tête de l'Unesco et qui me semblent, main-  tenant, résumer les conditions d'une consolidation croissante de l'organisation  et, en son sein, du développement d'une coopération intellectuelle exemplaire ?  Je serais tenté de dire - et nul ne s'en étonnera - que ces conditions sont  énoncées dans le préambule de son Acte constitutif. Mais je m'empresserai  d'ajouter qu'avec le temps, elles m'ont semble briller d'un eclat de plus en  plus vif, pour m'apparaître aujourd'hui comme une souveraine évidence.
26.30 "La solidarité intellectuelle et morale de l'humanité" repose, en der-  nière analyse, sur la symbiose, toujours incertaine, entre les espoirs spéci-  fiques de chaque peuple et les aspirations collectives de la communauté inter-  nationale ; entre la liberté de chaque individu et la commune dignité de tous  les hommes. N'est-ce-pas, au fond, cette symbiose qui caractérise toutes les  oeuvres de l'esprit qui atteignent a l'universel ? N'est-ce-pas ce a quoi s'ef-  forcent les grands créateurs de partout ?
26.31 C'est en tout cas le souffle que, de toutes mes forces, j'ai voulu faire  passer dans la pensée et dans l'action de l'Unesco, et le message qui désormais  fait partie de moi-même et que j'emporte avec moi sur les routes du monde. Sur  ces routes, je ne doute pas qu'il m'arrivera de rencontrer, à nouveau, nombre de  Ceux qui se trouvent ici. Et c'est pourquoi, en vous quittant, ce n'est pas un  adieu que j'adresse a la plupart d'entre vous, mais un au revoir. Je vous  remercie.  (Applaudissements prolongés)
(27.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  message.
(27.2) The meeting stands adjourned.  On behalf of all the delegates, I thank the Director-General for his  La seance est levée 5 13 h.15  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.15
3âCenâHkie 3âKpbIBâeTCH B 13.15  &Il u+ \ , \ 0 LUI j L.J+ll j;o,