Onzième séance plénière
26 octobre 1987, à 15 h 10  Président : M. PUTZEYS ALVAREZ (Guatemala)  Eleventh plenary meeting
26 OKTII6pII 1987 r. B 15.10  IIpencenaTenb: r-H IIYTCEfiC AJlbBAPEC (haTeMana)
359    SIXIEME RAPPORT SUPPLEMENTAIRE DU PRESIDENT DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES  PO W O  IR S  SIXTH SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  SEXTO INFORME SUPLEMENTARIO DEL PRESIDENTE DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION DE PODERES  iECTOh aOnOJIHMTEJIbHbIh ,QOKJlm IIPEQCERATEJIR KOMMTETA II0 IIPOBEPKE IIOJIHOMOlrMh  J k Y I  JJ>l
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Ladies and gentlemen, I declare this afternoon's session open. Before  resuming the general policy debate, I invite the Chairman of the Credentials Committee  to submit his report. You have the floor, Mr Luckhoo.
2. Mr LUCKHOO (Guyana), Chairman of the Credentials Committee:  Thank you, Mr President. Since I presented my last report, credentials  in due form have been received from Trinidad and Tobago. Credentials in due form  have also been received from Portugal, which had previously submitted provisional  credentials. In pursuance of the authorization given to me by the Credentials  Committee, I propose that these credentials be accepted by the General Confer-  ence. Thank you, Mr President.
(3.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Chairman of the Credentials Committee for his report.
(3.2) ' If there are no objections, the report is approved.  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuación)  OIiCYXJJEHME BOIIPOCOB OBUEh iTOJIMTMKM (IIPOAOJIXEHME)  ($) LWI L+i UL  &RR%% ( @ 1
(4) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  We shall resume the general policy debate. Mr Joseph Itotoh, Chairman of the  World Confederation of Organizations of the Teaching Profession, is the first speaker.
5.1 Mr ITOTOH (World Confederation of Organizations of the Teaching  Profession) :  Mr President, Honourable Ministers, Excellencies, distinguished ladies  and gentlemen, allow me to convey the congratulations of my Organization, the  World Confederation of Organizations of the Teaching Profession (WCOTP), to you,  Mr President, on your election to the exalted position of President of the  twenty-fourth session of the General Conference of Unesco. This is a clear  demonstration of the Conference's confidence in the experience and capability  which you will competently bring to play in directing the affairs of the  Conference. I also wish, Sir, to congratulate the Director-General on the very  able way in which he has piloted Unesco through the recent turbulent times,  holding Unesco's flag high, glowing in beautiful colours, conceptually and  operationally meeting the objectives originally conceived by the founding fathers  of Unesco. We are happy anã proud to have been associated with Unesco's
360    activities in the sectors of education, culture, peace an8 human rights over the  epoch-making years under the Director-Generalship of Amadou-Mahtar M'BOW. We wish  him continued success in his future endeavours.
5.2 Mr President, the World Confederation of Organizations of the Teaching  Profession speaks for some 11 million teachers in 106 countries of the world. In  all these countries, education is facing a very serious crisis. Th.is crisis is  manifest at different levels: at the level of conceptualization, at the level of  policy formulation, and at the level of actual delivery.
5.3 At the level of conceptualization, there seems to be a deepening crisis  ot purpose. Early philosophers saw education as developing the whole human  being - the mind and the spirit, as well as the more physically manifest aspects  of human abilities. Today, nearly every nation of the world, preoccupied with the  costs of education, is adopting a very restricted notion of educational  effectiveness, There is a reversion to a crude concept of productivity, in terms  of mere numbers of children passing through school, of the number succeeding in  examinations that hardly test the child's capacity to learn, of the number of  drop-ins and drop-outs, of' money saved by not spending on those things which  should bring education about - a retreat to an appallingly narrow conception of  education as simply training meant to turn young persons into square pegs fitting  into some well-carved industrial pigeon-holes.
5.4 Mr President, distinguished delegates, we the teachers deal with the  young, to whom tomorrow belongs. This 'tomorrow' cannot be predicted with any  certainty. The only sure means of preparing for it would be a genuine process of  education combining the elements of rigorous analytical thought, creativity, and  practical action. It would be a very valuable service to the world of tomorrow if  the Conference did some hard thinking on this.
5.5 The trend towards the less noble conceptions of education has had, and  will have, grave repercussions on the future development of science, culture and  education, and therefore on the ability of societies to cope with change.  Education alone will not solve all problems. But none can be solved without it.  Education (I mean high quality education) though by no means a total solution, is  an indispensible pre-condition of improvement in every other socio-economic  sector. And education must be available to all. Have the governments of the world  calculated the costs (not only 'private' costs but the eventual cost to the whole  nation) of creating a situation in which the privileged classes find it necessary  to send their children to expensive schools where the tenets of true education  are still upheld, while the less privileged make do with an impoverished and  inadequate system that perpetuates their disadvantage?
5.6 Mr President, these less noble conceptions of education I am speaking  about have also led to governments eroding at a fast rate the independence of  teachers to study their clients professionally and decide how best to deal with  them. It has also led to arbitrary cuts in the number of teachers and (in most of  the least developed countries) to total closure of educational institutions.
5.7 We of the World Confederation of Organizations of the Teaching  Profession have systematically studied the issue of cuts in education services.  Our finding is that cuts don't heal. We would like to plead with the governments  of the world that the wounds already created by the less noble conceptions of  educational ideals cannot be healed by further cuts inspired by economic panic.
5.8 Coming now to the level of the actual delivery of education,  Mr President, it would be worse than an understatement to say that teachers and  learners are toiling under adverse conditions. The Unesco/ILO Joint Recommen-  dation on the Status of Teachers has not yet been taken seriously by many  governments. The professionalization of teaching has been difficult and this  impairs performance. Governments sign conventions guaranteeing the rights of  teachers to collective bargaining, and then turn around to dictate conditions of  work and levels of pay. Every Member State of Unesco subscribes to its great  programme, 'Education for all'; yet access to education is denied to millions of  the world's marginalized populations. How can teachers be expected to take the  recommendations of conferences and the rhetoric of politicians seriously, when  governments make a mockery of their own affirmations?
5.9 Mr President, the language adopted by this address is intended to  emphasize the fact that decisions taken jointly by world governments, within the  framework of this Conference, should be taken very seriously. They are entirely  laudable. But ... should we let them always remain mere pious hopes, unrealizable  dreams, papers to be quoted only in academic discourse? We would like to think  that this should not be so.
5.10 In our own sphere, Mr President, we play our full part. Our collabor-  ation with Unesco does not end with our contribution to deliberations or the  execution of specific contracts. We have also tried, within the limits of our  resources, to bring Unesco's ideals within the grasp of the world's educational  practitioners at the grass 'roots. Our quarterly bulletin 'The Echo' regularly  features news on Unesco activities. Specific international years and decades  (e.g. on women, literacy, the disabled, culture, etc.) usually become integral  parts of the activities oí our member organizations and of our Secretariat. The  major programme areas of Unesco (especially those dealing with education) ha've  also become our major areas of concern and they have always been built into our  regional and national activities. Thus, work is at an advanced stage for holding  a regional conference in 1988 on the modalities of achieving 'education for all'  in Africa. We are also ready with a programme for sensitizing teachers in Latin  America to the whats and hows of the Unesco major programme for education in that  region.
5.11 I should like to end my address, Mr President, by reiterating our  readiness to collaborate with Unesco by using our world network to make people  feel the impact of its programme in the field. We should like, however, to urge  the governments represented here to make their own efforts to ensure that Unesco  conference recommendations do not become 'dead letters', that they always involve  teachers fully in matters concerning education, and that they accept the  prescription that cuts don't heal. To Unesco, we should like to suggest that  there is a need for an intensified involvement of educational professionals in  its activities. The bulk and the most important of these professionals are the  teachers whom we represent. Moreoever, the issue of Unesco subventions to non-  governmental organizations working with the Education Sector would need to be  looked into. While we accept that Unesco's resources are limited, the impression  should not be created that any one sector of Unesco's activities is more worthy  of attention by non-governmental organizations than any other.
5.12 Thank you, Mr President, for affording the World Confederation of  Organizations of the Teaching Profession the opportunity to deliver this address.  The world community can rest assured that, in helping to improve the quality of  human existence in its particular areas of competence, Unesco can always count on  the support of the WCOTP and its members.
(6) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Chairman of the World Confederation of Organizations of the  Teaching Profession for his statement and give the floor to H.E. Mr Mohamed Haïbitna  Ould Sidi Haiba, Minister of Information and head of the delegation of Hauritania.
(7.1) Mr OULD SIDI HAIBA (Mauritania) (Translation from the Arabic):  In the Name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate .. . Mr President of the  General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr representative of the  Director-General, distinguished heads and members of delegations, I should like to  begin, Mr President, by offering you my warmest congratulations on your election to  the high office whose duties you have begun to fulfil with efficiency and skill,  thereby showing that you are well qualified for the task and that our Conference did  well in electing you. I also wish to express our thanks and appreciation to the former  President, Hr Todorov, and to Mr Margan, the Chairman of the Executive Board, for  their fine services to Unesco during a very difficult phase of its history. Their  steadfastness in the face of these difficulties played an important role in ensuring  that the Organization also stood firm. As for the Director-General, my brother Amadou-  Mahtar M’Bow, I have pleasure in taking this opportunity to express our appreciation  and admiration of a man whose term as leader of this Organization has been one of the  most important not only in terms of duration but also in terms of achievements and  momentous events. With the support of the Secretariat and the representatives of  Member States, he succt?eded in confronting all the difficulties, keeping the Organiz-  ation alive and introducing necessary reforms, an effort that we hope his successor  will continue and complete so that Unesco recovers its vitality and universality and  prepares for a new beginning.
(7.2) Mr President, we are deeply attached to Unesco and this is no accident, for  everything has a cause. Unesco has ah important and unique role to play in its fields  of competence, as demonstrated over the past 40 years by many great achievements such  as the rescue and safeguarding of major historic and cultural monuments, some of which  were in grave danger, literacy campaigns, assistance to many States for the  improvemerit of curricula, the provision of facilities for meetings and productive  contacts among scholars, intellectuals and artists from different countries and the  promotion of new ideas for the advancement of research and knowledge in the various  branches of learning, science and technology. For this reason, we earnestly hope that  Unesco succeeds in overcoming its problems and crises so that it remains an unequalled  centre for co-operation and for scientific, intellectual and moral progress worldwide.
(7.3) We are not pessimistic because the crisis is basically not peculiar to Unesco  but concerns the entire United Nations system, which some time ago entered a new phase  of unprecedented conflict, calling for new solutions and new methods of coexistence  and co-operation. It will be necessary to take into consideration a number of factors  that were not anticipated at the time of the system’s foundation and establishment, as  well as the different and sometimes conflicting interests, opinions and approaches of  a large number of States and groupings in order to reconcile them and find positive  solutions to many negative situations. The crisis is similar in the different organiz-  ations although circumstances or individuals may influence the degree of severity in a  particular organization. As Unesco entered a critical phase before the other members  of the system and as it is considered and considers itself a leader in the field of  ideas and of scientific and methodological research, it must also play a leading role  in the search for appropriate solutions to the crisis and show its fellow organiz-  ations how to ensure coexistence and co-operation in spite of differences of opinion  or even how to change such differences from sources of antagonism and confrontation  into sources of mutual enrichment, integration and progress.
(7.4) Mr President, distinguished colleagues, my country is, as you know, facing  major challenges, one of the foremost being, as in other Third World countries, the  struggle for development. For many years, moreover, these challenges have been  aggravated and complicated in the Sahel countries by drought and desertification,  causing rapid and far-reaching changes in the biosphere, economic and social  structures, the behaviour of individuals and groups, etc. We have found that if these  challenges are to be met with any degree of effectiveness, a decisive role must be  assigned to the development of human resources, the application of science and  technology, the use of national culture to mobilize ideas in a suitable direction and  the involvement of the people as a whole in the struggle for development and the  management of their own affairs, thus opening the door to true democracy. The national  Mauritanian leadership is paving the way for these improvements and has also made the  protection of human rights a cornerstone of its policy.
(7.5) Mr President, Mauritania allocates more than one third of its budget to  education and training, giving priority to the gradual universalization of basic  education, science and technology education and the development of national languages.  To assist in forwarding this great national endeavour, a ministry for literacy  education was set up two years ago with a view to eradicating the chronic affliction  of illiteracy by the early 1990s. As education is a human right and an essential  prerequisite for progress and development, only an educated society can control its  own affairs and shape its future in an era of revolutionary scientific and techno-  logical progress.
(7.6) Mr President, Mauritania was and still is a great crossroads of peoples and  civilizations. The empires built on its territory were famed, among other things, for  the vigorous expansion of their cultural influence both northwards and southwards, for  example the Almoramids, Ghana and Tekrur. No wonder it was known as 'the country of a  million poets', a country that still maintains a longstanding and varied relationship  with culture. It is regrettable, however, that the records of this ancient cultural  influence - I refer to our ancient cities - are in danger of disappearing. Chinguitti,  Oualata, Ouadane and Tichitt are outstanding components of the world cultural  heritage. In 1981, therefore, Unesco launched an appeal to the international community  through its Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, to support a campaign for the  safeguarding and restoration of these cultural treasures. The Organization also  approved the organization in 1986 of a week of special events in Nouakshott to promote  the campaign. I wish to take this opportunity to thank the Director-General and the  Organization for their efforts and to appeal again to the international community from  this distinguished forum to support the campaign and its objectives so that Unesco can  add another success story to its splendid record of achievements ranging from  Indonesia to Nubia and West Africa.
(7.7) Mr President, while on the subject of the cultural rights of peoples and the  protection of the historical heritage of humankind, we should not fail to mention  those peoples who are still deprived of such rights. The Palestinian people in the  occupied territories are denied their cultural and educational rights and the acts of  aggression perpetuated against their holy places in the city of Jerusalem represent a  serious threat and a clear violation of Unesco's Constitution and the Charter of the  United Nations. In South Africa and Namibia, just as in Palestine, people are being  denied educational and cultural facilities in keeping with their legitimate  aspirations, patriotic feelings and development needs. Zionism and apartheid are  indeed two ugly sides of the same coin of racism.
(7.8) In the Arab Gulf the internecine war between Iraq and Iran is beginning to  spread to other countries of the region, undermining their security and stability, not  to mention the deep distress it has been causing to the two Muslim peoples of Iraq and  Iran for the past seven years. Now more than ever Unesco, as an agent of peace and  understanding among peoples, has a duty to redouble its efforts to ensure compliance  with Security Council resolution No. 598 calling for a cease-fire and negotiations  between the belligerents.
(7.9) Mr President, I mentioned a short while ago that my country - like others and  perhaps even more than others - feels attached to Unesco and is deeply concerned by  its present crisis. As a result, Mauritania sought to participate directly in the  search for an adequate solution. In addition to its special relationship and attach-  ment to the world of culture and ideas as the main consitituent of its national  identity, Mauritania enjoys the confidence of all its neighbours and good relations  with all States and has forged bonds of friendship and respect with all great nations  of the world. It is also richly endowed with highly competent, cultivated and experi-  enced human resources.
(7.10) What we really hoped for was to reach a consensus or a semi-consensus in  order to spare the Organization further discord and to avoid fuelling a crisis that we  thought everybody had become weary of and wished to end. As it became clear that  confrontation was once more inevitable, we did not hesitate to leave the arena so that  additional regional problems would at least be avoided. But remaining aloof from the
365    election campaign certainly does not imply, in our view, a lack of interest in the  Organization's problems. On the contrary, we are still willing to make every necessary  effort and sacrifice to ensure Unesco's survival and to contribute to the vital  process of reflection on means of restoring its vigour and reviving the spirit of  harmony and co-operation.
(7.11) I wish to make a number of points briefly in this connection. In addition to  and starting out from Unesco's well-known objectives, a great task awaits the Organiz-  ation: in simple terms, it must strive to be the conscience of the world in this age  of disintegrating ideologies and rampant consumerism, which are leaving young people  in particular at a loss. I am convinced that Unesco will find a large number of  intellectuals and other persons of repute willing to co-operate with it and to promote  its principles and objectives, provided that it presents its lofty humanitarian  mission with sufficient credibility to arouse hopes in the existence of a higher moral  authority to which everyone can refer without reservation. Unesco can also play a role  in development without provoking reservations from any source by mobilizing the world  scientific community to work towards simple, specific and low-cost objectives such as  making tacgible efforts in the advanced countries to develop scientific knowledge in  areas of importance to the Third World but also of benefit to the world as a whole.  There are, of course, specialized organizations and institutions operating in this  field but Unesco could act as a motivator and co-ordinator for the universalization of  science so that every country has its 'capital' corresponding to its basic needs.
(7.12) If Unesco is to accomplish its great mission and live up to the hopes that  have been placed in it, it will have to enjoy the support of all its members, that is  to say, of all the States in the world. This in turn calls for the preservation of  Unesco's universality and achievement of some form of a consensus on basic issues such  as objectives, approaches and means. Differences of opinion certainly have underlying  causes, but the general environment and atmosphere are far better now than in the past  and it is necessary therefore to create a new spirit of understanding and to lay new  foundations for dialogue, shunning all attempts to impose opinions rather than  convince or to gain some form of ascendancy. It is essential to devise new methods of  decision-making whereby the agreement of all groups (North, South, East and West) is  secured without renouncing the principle of equal sovereignty of States. It may be  said that this is impossible but we are fully confident that it can be achieved. We  hope that the first opportunity for putting it into practice will be in the appoint-  ment of a new Director-General, to whom we wish success in helping to restore harmony,  especially if the appointment is made by consensus, which is what we hope for and will  work to achieve. Thank you, Mr President.
(8) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  the floor to Mr Joseph Skala, Chairman of the International Union of Students.  I thank the head of the delegation of Mauritania for his statement. I give
9.1 Mr SKALA (International Union of Students):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, OD. behalf of the International Union of Students - an international  non-governmental organization having consultative status B with Unesco - I should  first like to join the other delegates in expressing my heartfelt congratulations  to you, Mr President, on your election. I also wish to express my sincere  appreciation to the Director-General of Unesco and the staff members as well as  my thanks for their engagement in the preparation of this very important meeting  and for the opportunities afforded to the non-governmental organizations to  contribute to its successful holding.
9.2 Mr President, since the very establishment of Unesco, public opinion and  its representatives - the NGOs - were given relevant frames within which to  contribute to the implementation of the Organization's policies and to sensitize  the world community to the importance of international co-operation in fields as  vital for humanity's development as education, science and culture. And in  assessing the Organization's almost 40-year-old history, I can proudly say that a  great deal has been done in this regard by both sides; one cannot imagine  scientific co-operation without the International Social Science Council or  cultural co-operation without the International Theatre Institute's presence.  During the past period of turbulence when the universal character of Unesco was  challenged by the withdrawal of three Member States, we - the NGOs - did a great  aeal. to defend the cause for which we have gathered here. And in spite of all  these d.ifficulties, I think that multifarious, purpose-oriented and mutually  fruitful co-operation will be developed and enriched by the process of decentral-  ization, regionalization and greater involvement in national realities at the  grass-root level.
9.3 Mr President, during the last two years the International Union of  Students, together with its member national unions of students from 117 countries  and in co-operation with other national, regional and international university  and student bodies , has undertaken and executed dozens of projects and actions  aimed at contributing to Unesco's programme and goals. The World Student Forum  held in Prague in November 1986 brought together 350 delegates representing a  broad political, ideological and social spectrum for a discussion on the inter-  relations of education and society. Regional topical events, held in Mexico,  India, Uruguay, the Dominican Republic, Angola, Ethiopia, Belgium and Mongolia,  gave new momentum to student co-operation. An international student round table  on disarmament and development held in Harare was planned as a student contri-  bution to the UN-sponsored conference on the same subject held in New York. A  variety of actions on peace and disarmament, an intellectual reflection on global  problems, illiteracy, student rights, youth problems, solidarity work, and the  social and economic conditions of studying were organized with the purpose of  setting up a broad coalition of open-minded, reasonably thinking young intel-  lectuals, regardless of their political convictions, aimed at saving the world  from catastrophe and annihilation.
9.4 Mr President, today's university faces very serious challenges and  threats. The arms race aiid the militarization of university teaching and research  are limiting the development of science; unfair economic relations are reflected  in cuts in education budgets and education financing; repressive and dictatorial  regimes are closing down universities as so-called 'hotbeds of tension'; students  are victims of racial discrimination under apartheid and of the limitation of  their right to organize themselves and deferid their rights. 'Education - a Right,  Not a Privilege' - this is the IUS campaign for open access to educational  institutions and democratization of university life. The university community is  prepared to take its responsibility vis-a-vis the needs of the society; economic  and social structures should allow this.
9.5 All these aspects might be emphasized in the forthcoming Unesco pro-  gramme for the benefit of educational and scientific development. The same  problems are affecting the development of world culture, calling for the defence  of national identity and traditions against the commercialized flooä of the  consumption-oriented mass media. We view as very important the work done by  Unesco for the promotion of peace education in curricula, teaching methods and  programmes, aimed at fostering better mutual understanding between peoples, and  opposing all forms of xenophobia, racism and discrimination. Unesco is also  regarded as the leading and most respected body in the struggle for the eradi-  cation of illiteracy. The expected proclamation of the International Literacy  Year is very much awaited by the university community so as to initiate practical  steps not to 'celebrate' the Year but to formulate practical literacy policies  and actions adapted to national and regional realities.
9.6 Mr President, in conclusion allow me to express our deep-felt conviction  that the difficult period in Unesco's history will soon come to an end. The  universal character of the Organization is assured not only by its membership but  also by its fields of competence, since science and culture are universal values  of humankind, combining all national and historical characteristics in a common  heritage for future generations. There are too many factors, such as misery,  famine, underdevelopment and backwardness, that must be fought, and we need more  understanding and mutual trust. We express our firm belief in the ideals of the  United Nations Charter and Unesco Constitution and shall do our best to implement  them in our international activities. Thank you, Mr President.
(10) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Chairman of the International Union of Students and I give the  floor to H.E. Mr Anatoli Zlenko, Vice-Minister for Foreign Affairs and head of the  delegation of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic.
367    Mexny CCCP CUA npMHqMnManbHa% norosopeHHocTb o n m B M n a q m  neyx KnaccoB paKeT y6emnae~  YeJIOBeYeCTBO B PeäJI bHO8 BOJMOXHOCTU CnpâBMTbC5I C ïP03HbiMM OIiâCHOCTRMM, B03HMKUMMH Ha iiOpOïe  TpeTbeïO TbICRYeJieTMR.
11.4 B 3TOa CBR3M YMeCTHO BCnOMHMTb BbIBOnbi BbinâiolqeïOC5i YYeHOïO, OCHOBâTeIlS1 M fIepBOr0  Iipe3MneHTa AKaneMMM HayK YKpaMHb1 B.M. BepHûnCKOïO, 125-JIeTMe CO RHR POXneHMñ KOTOpOïO Mbi 6 y n e ~   oTMewTh B IieBpane 6ynywero rona.
11.5 MCCJlenyR KBK ïeOXMMMK ABMXeHMe BeiJ&?CTBâ Ha HaIIle8 nJIaHeTe, B.M. BepHânCKMB OTKPbiJI, YTO  XMJHh Ha ilJi~ili~Te lie CMOXeT CyïqeCTBOBaTb, eCJIM OHa He 6 y n e ~  C03RUBaTb HOOC@epy - C@epy pa3yMa.  TepMMH HOOCC]Xp2l MHOïAâ TPaKTYiOT KBK npOCTpaHCTB0, ïne 06MTaioT pa3yMHbIe CyweCTBâ. HO yYeHbl8  IlOHMMaJl n0J.l HMM MMeHHO pa3yM qMBMJiM3aqMM, pa3YMHO OPïaHM30BaHHYIO lIJI2IHel.y.
11.6 CeïOnHñ, KOïRa npO6MBaeT ce6e nOpOîy HOBOe MbII.Ll2ieHMe He TOJIbKO B Cpene YYeHbiX, HO M y  ïOCynapCTBeHHbiX neRTeJIe8, 3TM BbIBORbI npMO6peTaiOT HOBYIO OKpaCKy. 3a60~a O 6ynywe~ Harnero 0614e1-0  noMa, OC03HaHI4e HeO6XORMMOCTM YTBepXneHMR 06lqeïeJIOBeYeCKMX HPaBCTBeHHO-3TMYeCKMX HOPM - Benb
3T0 IlPRMOh iiiiaï B HOOC@epy. HO âBTOMaTMYeCKM, CâMM c0608 3T M  HOPMb1 He YTBepnñTCñ. flJI5I MX BHenpeHMR  IlpenCTOMT XOpOLuO nOpa60TaTb BCeMy MMPOBOMY COO6lqeCTBy. M 3AeCb, no HaiiieMy MHeHMH), 6OflbiiiyiO pOJIb  cnocoó~a CbirIXlTh IOHECKO. B PâMKaX CBOefi KoMneTeHqMM M B nOJIHOM COOTBeTCTBMM C YCTaBHblMM qeflRMM  OpïâHM3aUH5i MOXCT MO(jMflM30BaTb HiI 3TY 6naroponHyio neRTeflbHOCTb MMPOBYH) MHTeflfleKTyaJIbHyiO 3flMTY  M üiHpOKYiO MeXnyHapOnHyio 06weCTBeHHOCTb.
11.7 flyMaeTCR, YTO MMeHHO mHECKO C ee aBTOPMTeTOM M MOQHbIM MHTeJIJieKTyaJIbHbIM nOTeHqMa-  JiOM MOïJia 6bi CTaTb npOBOnHMKOM HOBOïO MbIiiiJIeHMR, HOBbIX MOpâJIbHO-3TMYeCKMX HOPM 6e3'banep~oro  MMpa, HOBbIX IIORXOROB K MMPOBbIM npO6JIeMaM. ki 3T0, no HâiiieMy r n y 6 o ~ o ~ y  y6emne~~10, He TOJIbKO He  IlpOTMBOpeYMflO 6b1 ee YCTaBy MAN HneaJIaM, a M CnOCO6CTBOBâJIO 6bi M X  YTBepWleHMio B 6onee nOJIHO8 Mepe.  c JlpyïOk CTOPOHbI, Han0 OTRaBâTb cebe OTYeT B TOM, YTO BeCTM JJeJIâ nO-CTapOMy B HOBbIX YCJIOBMRX  CTaHOBMTCH HeB03MOXHbiM.  r
11.10 flefiCTBMTeJIbH0, KâK MbI BCe nOMHMM, HMKTO M3 YYaCTiiMKOB npOiiiJIO8 CeCCMM He CTâBMJI tion  COMHeHMe XíM3HeHHOCTb M rny60~ym TYMaHHOCTb qeJIe8 M 3aRaY OpïäHM3âqMM. XOTII, M 3T0 Hano npM3HâTb  OTKPOBeHHO. 6 b i n ~  nOnblTKM 3aKJIioYMTb IOHECKO non CTeKflRHHbl8 KOJïIlaK, CneJIâTb ee co3epqa~ene~  MMPOBbIX n p o ó n e ~ ,  a He aKTMBHbiM YYaCTHMKOM HX peiiieHM5I.
11.11 H?lIlpRXeHHOCTb BOKPYï IOHECKO, RaBfleHMe, KOTOpOe OKa3blBâJiOCb M npODOflXâeT OKa3bI-  BâTbCñ Ha Hee, O6yCnOBMflM y c y r y 6 n e ~ ~ e  pasee Cy~eCTBOBaBiiiMX B ReRTeJibHOCTM OPïaHM3âqMM HenOCTaTKOB  M nORBJleHMe HOBblX.
(11.1) Mr ZLENKO (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic) (Translation from the  Russian) :  Mr President, distinguished delegates, from this lofty rostrum of our most  important forum, where I have the honour to represent the Ukrainian SSR, a republic  which has consistently supported the noble aims and ideals of Unesco, the special  responsibility of the present session of the General Conference is clear. That  responsibility stems from the new situation emerging in the international arena and  from the demands of our times which have rightly gone down in history as a turning-  point in world politics. The world is approaching the point where changes are already  beginning to come about. The understanding reached in principle by the USSR and the  United States concerning the elimination of two classes of missiles is convincing man-  kind of the genuine possibility of dealing with the terrible dangers that have arisen  on the theshold of the twenty-first century.
(11.2) The encouraging improvement that has begun, clearly confirms the viability of  the principles of the new political thinking, and the vital necessity of adopting new  moral and ethical standards in the life of our Organization, which is common to all  mankind. Above all, they must be standards based on rejection of confrontation, readi-  ness to take the interests of one's partners into consideration, respect for inter-  national agreements and institutions, recognition of common human values and the unity  of mankind itself, standards that open up new possibilities for the development of  mutually beneficial, multilateral co-operation.
(11.3) Nowadays, new thinking is emerging both as regards acknowledging the growing  mutual dependence of the contradictory contemporary world and as regards understanding  the need to create a comprehensive system of international security. The basis of such  a system must embrace military, political, economic and humanitarian aspects. The new  reality has given us this choice: we may hold different views, but only together can  we survive or perish. The growing role which humanitarian factors play in inter-  national relations places greater and greater demands on all aspects of human  activity.
(11.4) It is appropriate, in this connection, to recall the conclusions of the  distinguished scholar V.I. Vernadskiy, founder and first President of the Academy Of  Sciences of the Ukraine, the 125th anniversary of whose birth we shall be celebrating  in February of next year.
(11.5) While doing geochemical research into the motion of matter on earth,  Vernadskiy discovered that life on earth cannot exist unless it creates a 'noosphere',  or mind-sphere. The term 'noosphere' is sometimes interpreted to mean a space  inhabited by thinking beings. But Vernadskiy understood it as the mind of civiiiz-  ation, a rationally organized planet.
(11.6) Nowadays, with the new thinking blazing a trail not only among scholars but  also among statesmen, these conclusions are taking on a new colouring. Our Organiz-  ation's concern about the future, and the realization of the need to adopt moral and  ethical standards which are common to all mankind, are a step straight into the  noosphere. Nevertheless, these standards will not be adopted automatically, by them-  selves. Their introduction will require hard work on the part of the entire world  community. And here, in our view, Unesco is able to play a substantial role. Within  its own sphere of competence and in full accordance with its constitutional aims, the  Organization is able to mobilize the world's intellectual elite and the broad inter-  national community for this noble activity.
(11.7) It would seem that it is precisely Unesco, with its authority and powerful  intellectual potential, that could become the pathfinder of the new thinking, of the  new moral and ethical standards of the nuclear-free world, of the new approaches to  world problems. This, we are profoundly convinced, not only would not run counter to  its Constitution and ideals but would more fully promote their affirmation. On the  other hand, one must realize that it is becoming impossible in the new conditions to  conduct affairs in the old ways.
(11.8) Reluctance to understand this led to that situation in which Unesco became  the victim of attacks, blackmail and pressure, and in which the legacy of the Organiz-  ation's founders was openly trampled on and cast aside. And it must be said very  frankly that turning Unesco into an arena of struggle and confrontation was of no  assistance whatever to the successful functioning of the Organization during the  period in question.
(11.9) However, those who were ill-disposed towards the Organization did not manage  to break it or paralyse its activities. Despite their calculations, Unesco held out,  and it held out chiefly because the Organization is necessary to mankind, because  Unesco demonstrated loyalty to its constitutional aims and principles, justifying the  hopes placed in it by mankind. There, in our view, lies the guarantee of its success  in the future.
(11.10) In fact, as we all remember, none of those who took part in the last session  cast any doubt upon the vitality and profound humanism of the Organization's aims and  ideals. Although - and this must be said frankly - there were attempts to put Unesco  in a glass case and make it a contemplator of the world's problems rather than an  active participant in their solution.
(11.11) The tension surrounding Unesco and the pressure which was exerted and  continues to be exerted upon it led to the exacerbation of existing shortcomings in  the Organization's activities and the emergence of new ones.
(11.12) As before, the most typical 'old' shortcomings included the growth of  bureaucratic tendencies in Unesco's activity, the low level of efficiency with which  human resources are used, the dispersal of programmes instead of their concentration,  and excessive enthusiasm for small projects with scarcely any multiplier effect. Much  has been said about all this in the recent past.
(11.13) But in speaking of the shortcomings in Unesco's activities we are not by any  means forgetting the positive achievements due primarily to the indefatigable work of  the Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow.
(11.14) During these very same years, the Organization's most important decisions and  documents were prepared, adopted and began to be operative, chief among them being the  second Medium-Term Plan, the Plan for the Development of Education for International  Understanding, Co-operation and Peace, the early stages of preparing the World Decade  for Cultural Development, and other undertakings of general significance for mankind.  We also note with satisfaction Unesco's participation in the International Year of  Peace and International Youth Year, the beneficial effect of celebrating Unesco's  fortieth anniversary, and much else that contributed to the further strengthening of  co-operation in the field of education, science and culture.
(11.15) Mr President, in spite of the fact that for many years now the practice has  been to plan Unesco's programme activity on the basis of two-year cycles, the Draft
24 Cl5 seems to us to be an unusual and special document. What distinguishes it from  other previous such documents?
(11.16) Mainly the fact that the Unesco Programme and Budget for 1988-1989 will mark  the final biennium of the second Medium-Term Plan which will not only sum up the  Organization's six years of activities but also will become the special connecting  link, the transition to the third period of medium-term planning. With that in mind,  it wodd seem logical to adopt an approach to the examination of the projects of the  future programme that would, on the one hand, evaluate the planned measures in the  context ~t bringing to a conclusion the implementation of the decisions of the fourth  extraordinary session of the Unesco General Conference, and, on the other, take  account of the conception and future content of its third Iviedium-Term Plan.
(11.17) The second distinguishing feature is that the composition of document 24 C/5  has been yet one more proof of the vitality of Unesco. Unesco is needed by the nations  of the world, and the draft two-year programme submitted for the consideration of the  present session reflects the interest of countries in its activities. It is to be  hoped that the General Conference will demonstrate our common concern for the future  of Unesco, the unity of our interests in the preservation and development of its  importance for all mankind and our joint striving to achieve its noble aims arid  ideals.
(11.18) The world is confronting Uriesco with new, big and important problems, and the  Organization itself stands out ever more clearly in the eyes of the world community as  a unique international intellectual forum, described in the Director-General's report  as 'a specialized laboratory of ideas' and as 'drawing upon the huge reserves ... in  the mind of every individual'. Unfortunately, we have to say that Unesco's action to  mobilize the world's intellectual potential has markedly declined of late. The idea  has developed in the international community that the time is long overdue for the  creation, under the aegis of the United Nations, of a world consultative council  bringing together the world's intellectual élite. Unesco can and must become the  pioneer in that endeavour, since its programme activity must be the basis for the  broadest intellectual and humanitarian co-operation. We are in favour of that activity  being pursued in all directions, being translated into specific actions and embodied  in a continuing exchange of achievements in science and technology and cultural  values. Of course, to do these things calls in turn for new approaches in the formu-  lation of the programme and the search for new forms of dialogue. In other words, our  view of the planning of Unesco's biennial programme is that it should not be an  ideological confrontation and a fruitless debate about what is best, but the greatest  possible representation of the widest range of different scientific schools of  thought, traditions and views and an active search among this variety of human value  and ideals.
(11.19) There is another extremely important point to which we should like to draw  attention. Unesco's programme activities should not only be maintained in the present  financial situation but should be enhanced, taking account of the momentum of world  events. That is to say, we should not occupy ourselves with making a mechanical  enumeration of the measures planned but should review their priority yet again so that  Unesco's programme corresponds even more closely to the interests of the peoples of  the world.
(11.20) I should like to say a word about the level and quality of programme evalu-  ation. We believe it necessary to state that self-evaluation should be an integral  part of Unesco's activity. In that connection, we should also like to point out that  now, as in previous years, the approach to the Draft 24 C/5 does not seem to us to be  entirely correct. The main task of this session of the General Conference is to work  together to improve the draft programme and in that connection the Secretariat must  demonstrate great efficiency, flexibility and a willingness to make adjustments in  order to modify the document within the shortest possible time, taking account of the  remarks and proposals made during the session.
(11.21) In particular, we have pointed out on several occasions that planned activi-  ties connected with world problems have not all been properly implemented on schedule.  A paradoxical situation has arisen in which we are trying to find additional funds for  programme execution while we have not yet used those funds which are available. In the  opinion of our delegation, this is not the kind of economy we need. The analysis of  world problems gives direction to all of Unesco's programme activities as an  experienced surveyor establishes the line for a tunnel. If this were not the case, we  should run a serious risk of descending to the level of mere empiricism.
(11.22) No one today denies the importance of all Unesco's areas of activity but we  believe that it would be advisable to take a new look at Unesco's resources for the  development of the international division of scientific labour. This is not really a  question of the transfer of resources but of achieving better results by strengthening  the interdisciplinary approach, regrouping projects and reviewing priorities on the  basis of authoritative expert assessment.
(11.23) We also believe that there is a need to achieve a significant improvement in  the quality of round tables, which are such an important way of implementing programme  actions. Publication of their results is often delayed and their practical value is  thus lost. Thought might also be given to ways of organizing a system of institutions  to provide lectures, as well as international postgraduate study, on the most  important questions in Unesco's field of competence, including world problems.  Naturally, all of this would mean further reorganization in the work of the  Secretariat, both as regards increasing its efficiency and as regards raising its  output for the benefit of Member States.
(11.24) It is gratifying that Unesco, according to the 24 Cl5, maintains links with  almost 700 international non-governmental organizations. In our view, the development  of working relationships with these organizations and the harnessing of their  potential and experiesce in the interests of Unesco's programme is an important means  for raising the standard of the Organization's work and increasing its authority among  broad sections of the scientific, creative and educational community. However, the  established forms of co-operation do not always correspond to those categories which  have been adopted with regard to non-governmental organizations in the Unesco classi-  fication. In practice, some of these links are purely formal while other non-  governmental organizations simply receive subventions and their relationship with  Unesco stops there. We believe that Unesco's links with these organizations should be  reviewed in order to establish genuinely mutually advantageous working relationships,  directed towards ensuring the execution of Unesco's programme activities while  preserving their intellectual and financial independence.
(11.25) We are pleased to see from the discussion that, in spite of all the sudden  changes that have been prevalent at Unesco hitherto, the spirit of co-operation is the  dominant factor. Nevertheless, it must be noted with regret that some speeches have  been coloured by nostalgia for the days when Unesco found itself faced with a  momentous choice. Hence the proposal regarding unilaterally planned reforms and the  self-seeking use of the practice of consensus, and so on.
(11.26) Mr President, the Ukrainian SSR has always been in favour of maintaining and  strengthening the universality of Unesco, even during the most difficult periods in  the life of the Organization. Today, however, we feel that the strengthening of  Unesco's universal nature should be discussed not only, or perhaps not so much in  quantitative terms as in terms of its quality. By this we mean a concentration of  effort on genuinely universal problems and approaches to their solution based on the  defence and development of the values which the peoples of the world have suffered to  achieve in their struggle for self-preservation and the continuation of the human  race.
(11.27) I should like to state from this platform that the revolutionary strategy for  the regeneration of the world, proclaimed by the Great October Revolution 70 years  ago, is now finding practical expression in the reorganization and democratization of  Soviet society and in major foreign policy initiatives which are creating genuine pre-  conditions for the preservation and development of human civilization.
(11.28) The internal changes in our country, the distinguishing features of which are  openness, frankness and dialogue, enable us to make full use of these concepts in  relation to Unesco as well. We believe that if these concepts were broadly applied on  a universal scale, this could help us to bring within reach a world in which the yard-  stick for everything would be human life, freedom, reason and dignity. This is the  goal for world civilization today and Unesco's work should contribute to it. Thank  you, Mr President.
(12) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic  and I give the floor to Monsignor Angelo Felici, Papal Nuncio of the Holy See in  France.
13.1 Mgr. FELICI (Saint-Siège) :  Monsieur le Président, la délégation du Saint-Siège est heureuse de vous  présenter ses félicitations chaleureuses et respectueuses pour votre élection à  la présidence de la vingt-quatrième session de ia Conférence générale de
13.2 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général de l'Unesco,  Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, le Saint-Siège, qui jouit du statut d'observa-  teur auprès de l'Unesco depuis 35 ans, a toujours suivi, discrètement mais  attentivement, les activités de l'organisation, à laquelle il n'a jamais cessé  de donner son soutien et sa collaboration dans les domaines d'intérêt commun,  autant que faire se pouvait. La délégation du Saint-Siège est heureuse de pouvoir  redire, à l'occasion du débat de politique générale de la vingt-quatrième session  de la Conférence générale, l'estime que le Saint-Siège attache au rôle de  l'Unesco, dans une conjoncture internationale difficile, qui a eu et a encore  des répercussions sur la vie de l'Unesco.
13.3 Certes, les difficultés de l'Unesco ne sont pas encore entièrement sur-  montées, mais il faut rendre hommage à tous ceux qui ont oeuvré et continuent à  oeuvrer pour des réformes substantielles jugées indispensables, capables de  donner une efficacité accrue 6 l'organisation et une plus juste appréciation de  ses finalités et de son rôle en faveur d'un monde qui a connu tant de changements  ces 40 dernières années. L'information n'ayant pas toujours été suffisante ni  objective, l'opinion n'a pu, dans bien des cas, saisir exactement la nature et  les causes de ces difficultés, aussi bien que le contenu et les motivations des  critiques faites à l'ensemble du système des Nations Unies et plus spécifiquement  à l'Unesco, et n'a pu saisir non plus la portée des solutions envisagées, plus  ou moins ouvertement, qui tendaient parfois même à privilégier entièrement ou  partiellement les relations bilatérales au détriment des relations multi-  latérales.
13.4 Heureusement, les polémiques souvent passionnées, les remises en ques-  tion souvent brutales, les explications apportées par les responsables et les  réflexions nombreuses de ceux qui, à divers titres, ont oeuvré avec l'Unesco et  ont suivi de près son action, amènent de plus en plus à reconnaître la valeur de  la plus grande partie de ses activités, et elles aident l'opinion à mieux  comprendre non Seulement l'.utilité de l'organisation, mais plus encore son rôle  irremplaçable.
13.5 Ce rôle trouve son origine et sa source dans une exigence d'universa-  lit&. L'Unesco est nécessaire parce que, bien plus encore qu'à l'époque de sa  création, un grand nombre de problèmes ne peuvent trouver aujourd'hui une solu-  tion satisfaisante qu'à l'échelle mondiale et avec le concours de tous les gou-  vernements. Ceci vaut certes pour de nombreux domaines, mais tout spécialement  pour ceux qui sont de la compétence de l'Unesco : ne s'agit-il pas en effet  d'élever dans l'esprit des hommes les défenses de la paix grâce 6 l'éducation,  la culture, les sciences exactes et naturelles, les sciences sociales et la com-  munication ? Permettez-moi de citer les paroles que Jean-Paul II prononça en la  présence du Président des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, le 10 septembre dernier : "Le  bien commun de la société n'embrasse pas seulement la nation particulière 6  laquelle on appartient, mais tous les citoyens du monde entier... Les relations  actuelles entre les peuples et entre les nations réclament l'établissement d'une  plus grande coopération internationale entre toutes les nations, tout en respec-  tant leur dignité et leur propre responsabilité."
13.6 i1 n'est pas question de méconnaître ou de minimiser les si nombreuses  activités dont ia conception et ia réalisation se situent uniquement au niveau  national, ni les si légitimes différences de situations, de traditions, de  cultures, qui font la spécificité et la valeur propre de chaque nation. Mais il  apparaît aujourd'hui nécessaire de mettre en garde les nations contre une tenta-  tive d'autosuffisance et de repli sur elles-mêmes, contre une conception des  services qu'une nation peut et doit apporter à d'autres nations qui se trouvent  dans la nécessité ou dans la détresse, en voulant garder quasi entièrement la  maîtrise des services apportés. Une telle conception n'assure pas suffisamment  le respect: de l'égalité fondamentale de toutes les nations.
13.7 C'est cette égalité fondamentale que les nations peuvent trouver dans  leur rencontre au sein de l'Organisation des Nations Unies et de ses institutions  spécialisées. Dans ce cadre, tout spécialement, se manifeste et se traduit la  solidarité de plus en plus étroite entre toutes les nations du monde, et se
374    réalise ia communauté mondiale. Le pape Jean-Paul II, à plusieurs reprises, a  souligné cette solidarité et ses implications. Ainsi, dans le document consacré  par la Commission pontificale "Justice et paix" à l'endettement des pays 8n  développement, il est déclaré que "l'interdépendance accrue des nations rend  nécessaire une concertation internationale pour poursuivre les objectifs du bien  commun ... solidarité qui, au lieu de conduire à l'égoïsme des nations et à  l'inégalité, doit se traduire par un partage des efforts et des sacrifices, doit  susciter une fraternité en vue de la paix et du développement".
13.8 c'est dans ces 'perspectives concrètes qu'il faut reconnaître et satis-  faire les exigences d'universalité et de solidarité. Si l'Unesco devait perdre  durablement son universalité, par delà les difficultés matérielles très diffici-  lement surmontables qui en résulteraient, c'est son utilité et, bien plus encore,  son existence même qui pourraient être mises en question.
13.9 En rappelant l'exigence d'universalité, on ne peut pas oublier les  réformes qui s'imposent afin que l'Unesco puisse répondre pleinement à ses fina-  lités, et que l'universalité se traduise en une action efficace, asscirée au  moindre coût. Cette amélioration, par ailleurs très souvent évoquée, implique  une évaluation plus précise et plus stricte des méthodes de travail, un Soin  attentif de ne pas s'engager dans des tâches déjà assurées par d'autres Orga-  nismes. Entre autres, il paraît souhaitable et utile que l'Unesco confie daVan-  tage, plus encore que par le passé, des tâches d'exécution et la prise en charge  de ses projets à d'autres instances, telles que, par exemple, les organisations  internationaies non gouvernemntaïes, en se réservant les actions qui lui sont  propres, et en jouant en même temps un rôle d'initiative, de mobilisation et de  coordination en vue d'une fructueuse collaboration. Cette amélioration souhai-  table de l'action de l'Unesco dépend des responsables directs de l'Organisation  aussi bien que des Etats membres, tous oeuvrant sincèrement au maintien de  l'universalité et à la réalisation effective de ia solidarité.
13.10 Ces deux objectifs majeurs trouvent leur fondement dans la défense et  la promotion des droits de l'homme, dans le respect de la dignité de l'être  humain, laquelle exige que soit assurée à tous les hommes une authentique  liberte. Permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, de Citer  encore une fois des extraits d'un discours de Jean-Paul II lors de sa récente  visite aux Etats-Unis d'Amérique : "La seule véritable liberté est de faire ce  que nous devons faire en tant qu'êtres humains créés par Dieu, selon son plan.  C'est la liberté de vivre la vérité de ce que nous sommes et de ce que nous  sommes devant Dieu, la liberté de notre identité comme enfants de Dieu, comme  frères et soeurs dans une humanité commune". Le respect de la dignité de l'être  humain devient alors le fondement du respect des droits, de l'indépendance et de  l'égalité de chaque peuple et de tous les peuples.
13.11 Comment ne pas reconnaître que, malgré les nombreuses difficultés,  l'humanité tout entiere est en marche vers un avenir meilleur, grâce à un effort  de solidarité universelle ? Comment ne pas faire confiance à une Unesco capable  de se réformer pour devenir de plus en plus la conscience du monde en transfor-  mation ? Qu'il me soit permis de reprendre les mots de Jean-Paul II qui ont  résonné dans cette même salle : "Ne cessez pas. Continuez. Continuez toujours."
13.12 Avant de conclure, je voudrais signaler que le Saint-Siège attache une  importance particulière à trois aspects du programme pour 1988-1989, oh l'action  de l'Unesco apparaît opportune et féconde : ia place croissante faite à la  famille, cellule de base de la société, avec des études en profondeur sur sa  nature et son contenu dans les différentes cultures, sur les places assignées à  la paternité et à la maternité responsables, sur son rôle dans l'éducation des  enfants, sur les liens unissant les membres d'une famille, celle-ci prise au  sens élargi ; le lancement de la Décennie mondiale du développement culturel,  afin de mieux reconnaître que la culture doit contribuer à l'élévation de tout  l'être humain et qu'elle doit être accessible à tous les hommes sans aucune  restriction ou discrimination ; les grands programmes scientifiques, qui bénéfi-  cient d'une approbation unanime, mais dont nous souhaiterions que soit mieux  reconnu le concours qu'ils apportent, dans leur ensemble et selon leur spécifi-  cité, au développement intégral et au progrès des conditions d'existence des  hommes. Merci, Monsieur le President.
(14) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Papal Nuncio of the Holy See in France, and I give the floor to  H.E. Mr Mohammad Farhadi, Minister of Culture and Higher Education and head of the  delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
15.1 M. FARHADI (République islamique d'Iran) (Discours prononcé en persan ;  texte français fourni par la délégation) :  Au nom de Dieu, le Clément, le Miséricordieux. Monsieur le Président de  la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, dans cette Maison, qui a  été fondée au nom de l'éducation, de ia culture et de la science, il est bon de  commencer par rendre grâce à Dieu, éducateur par excellence, créateur de l'uni-  vers et de l'homme, Dieu qui a accordé aux hommes la faculté de ConCevoir la  beauté, d'être libre, qui a fait de l'homme Son dépositaire sur terre OÙ Se  reflètent les marques de Sa puisance, de Son omniscience et de Sa sagesse. Dieu  qui est à l'origine de ia vie, du mouvement, des vertus et de la perfection.  Auprès de Lui, le plus méritant des hommes est celui qui est le plus Vertueux.  C'est Dieu qui conduit les hommes vers la recherche de la vérité, de la beauté,  de la bonne action, du savoir, de l'art, de la morale, de la vision universelle,  de la connaissance de soi et de celle de Dieu. I1 les invite 6 bien observer, à  bien réfléchir, à bien choisir et à se promouvoir. 11 les invite à se soumettre  à Ses commandements, ce qui implique la rébellion contre l'orgueil et le despo-  tisme. C'est Dieu qui a donné à Adam, à Abraham, à Moïse, 6 Jésus et à Mohammad,  fils d'Abdallah - que la paix de Dieu soit sur eux tous - la mission de faire  connaître aux hommes la vérité, de leur lire les versets divins, de les appeler  à se purifier l'âme et à s'instruire, à leur apprendre le Livre et la sagesse.
15.2 Monsieur le Président, dans le peu de temps qui m'est accordé, je VOU-  drais tout d'abord vous féliciter, au nom de la République islamique d'Iran,  pour votre élection à la présidence de cette session. Je voudrais aussi former  des voeux pour le succès de l'Unesco et saluer M. M'Bow dont nous apPréCiOnS  hautement les activités. En effet, M. M'Bow a fait des efforts remarquables pour  préserver l'indépendance de l'Organisation et réaliser les objectifs sublimes de  l'homme. I1 a résisté avec courage aux pressions et a réussi à laisser ouverte  la porte de l'Unesco, cette Organisation Universelle, au tiers monde en refusant  les exclusives. Espérons que l'Unesco continuera son chemin sur cette même voie,  qu'elle n'échangera pas son indépendance relative pour un attachement à une  quelconque politique hégémonique.
15.3 Dans les principes qui sont à l'origine de la Révolution islamique, et  que le Gouvernement et le peuple iraniens mettent en pratique, l'homme occupe  une place très élevée parce qu'il est le Calife de Dieu sur terre et le déposi-  taire de Ses commandements. Aussi bien, sa personnalité humaine doit-elle etre  intégralement respectée, et ia dénégation de cette qualité reviendrait à nier  l'universalité de l'homme dans son acception générale et particulière.
15.4 Dans la conception islamique, toute discrimination entre les individus,  ou l'absence d'égalité entre eux, quelles que soient leur race, leur ethnie, la  couleur de leur peau ou leur langue, est contraire aux prescriptions divines qui  reconnaissent dans les races et les tribus un moyen pour identifier les hommes  en proclamant que "ce sont les plus vertueux des hommes qui Sont les plus  p r éc i eux .
15.5 En vue de ces objectifs saints, le Gouvernement de la République isla-  mique d'Iran aspire ardemment à coopérer activement, avec les Etats membres, aux  travaux futurs de planification, dans le cadre de ce qui sera formulé et approuvé  par la Conférence générale. Et c'est dans ce but et afin de contribuer plus  activement aux travaux de l'Unesco que nous avons présenté notre candidature au  Conseil exécutif.
15.6 En vérité, nous sommes tres favorables aux objectifs de l'Unesco et je  pourrais même dire qu'ils se confondent avec nos propres aspirations. Pourtant  lorsque l'on en vient à examiner le bilan de l'action des organisations inter-  nationales, et notamment de l'Unesco, durant les quarante dernières années, on  constate que cette dernière n'a pas pu atteindre la totalité des objectifs  qu'elle s'était initialement assignés. Et si vous m'en demandiez la raison, je  dirais qu'en réalité, cet échec n'est pas à mettre au compte des responsables et  des administrateurs de l'Unesco qui n'auraient pas cherché à résoudre les pro-  blèmes éducatifs, scientifiques ou culturels dans le monde, ni à mettre au compte  des nations qui les auraient négligés. Cet état de chose est plutôt imputable à  l'Estekbar, autrement dit à l'orgueil et à ceux qu'il habite, qui animés de  velléités hégémonistes et racistes et fermes partisans des inégalités, toutes  choses que l'Unesco combat et désapprouve, opposent des obstacles et des diffi-  cultés incalculables à l'accomplissement des obligations qui incombent à  l'Unesco. Parmi ces difficultés, il y a celles suscitées au Directeur général  actuel, depuis plusieurs années, dans l'accomplissement de ses tâches, par des  restrictions budgétaires provoquées et encouragées par les Etats-Unis d'Amé-  rique. I1 est de fait que lorsque les Etats-Unis d'Amérique et ses partenaires  comprennent que l'Unesco peut continuer son chemin sans eux, non seulement ils  l'abandonnent - ce qui n'est d'ailleurs pas sans intérêt pour l'Unesco - mais  ils dressent des embûches sur sa route afin de paralyser ses travaux et de  mettre son avenir en péril.
15.7 Monsieur le Président, le grand programme I de 1"Jnesco est consacré  aux difficultés et aux problèmes mondiaux. I1 est certain que les moyens maté-  riels à eux seuls, si développés et sophistiqués qu'ils soient, ne sauraient  assurer aux hommes le bonheur, ni leur fournir les instruments nécessaires pour  résoudre leurs problèmes. L'homme et la société humaine ne peuvent vivre sans  une base spirituelle dans cet exil qu'est le monde matériel ; aussi convient-il  que l'Unesco se préoccupe davantage et sérieusement de la religion et de la foi,  d'autant que si cette Organisaton aspire à demeurer fidèle 6 ses objectifs, elle  doit donner la possibilité à toutes les cultures d'être présentes en son sein. A  cet égard, il lui revient de laisser se manifester les pensées religieuses, les  croyances et les valeurs hautement spirituelles. N'est-il pas vrai que certaines  cultures ou civilisations sont entièrement édifiées sur la base de la religion,  et que celle-ci a influencé une part importante de beaucoup d'autres cultures et  civilisations ?
15.8 Dès lors, comment peut-on imaginer que l'Unesco demeure si indifférente  à l'égard de la religion et se figurer que toutes les cultures et civilisations  sont représentées au sein de cette Organisation ?
15.9 Ainsi donc, une approche scientifique et rationnelle des problèmes mon-  diaux, et les moyens propres à y remédier, sont le gage de l'attention que  l'Unesco apportera à la science ainsi qu'à la foi, à la morale et à la culture  en tant que phénomène global et universel. I1 convient d'étudier dans cette dis-  position d'esprit les problèmes mondiaux actuels, dans l'intérêt de l'humanité  et non en fonction des intérêts des grandes puissances ou de problèmes particu-  liers inhérents à leurs peuples. Dans les programmes que l'on s'apprête à &labo-  rer, il serait souhaitable que l'Unesco considère avec le sérieux qu'elle mérite  la question de la permissivité morale que l'on constate actuellement - et dont  personne ne nie ia gravité - et envisage d'y apporter remède. Les impasses créées  actuellement par les grandes puissances à l'endroit des systèmes sociaux et  culturels, et le matérialisme absolu qui règne dans le monde, ont fait naître le  désespoir chez la jeune génération quant à l'avenir de l'humanité et aux condi-  tions présentes. Certes - comme il a été dit plus haut - le champ d'action est  restreint dans les conditions actuelles en ce qui concerne les propositions à  soumettre 6 cette conférence, mais la République islamique d'Iran propose qu'un  bureau soit mis en place pour étudier les moyens de ressusciter les valeurs  morales communes et d'instaurer un nouvel ordre dans ce domaine. La République  islamique d'Iran, je l'affirme, est toute disposée à y apporter tous les concours  matériels et moraux. La toxicomanie ravage notre monde d'un bout 6 l'autre. A  cet égard, certains pays sont confrontés à l'usage de la drogue par les jeunes,  les moins jeunes, et même les vieillards, et certains autres sont placés au car-  refour du trafic des stupéfiants et, de ce fait, sont plus vulnérables que les  premiers. Un troisième groupe de pays, comme l'Iran, doit affronter une situation  encore plus complexe, dans ce sens que les puissances orgueilleuses et leurs  agents appointés - qui sont en guerre ouverte contre lui - se servent de 'la  drogue comme une arme destructrice pour lutter contre la Révolution islamique de  l'Iran.
15.10 Bien que l'Unesco se soit dans le passé préoccupée de la question de la  toxicomanie, il semble cependant qu'elle n'ait pas apporté l'attention voulue à  la création d'un réseau actif de recherches pour élucider les facteurs culturels  et éducatifs négatifs qui en sont la cause. I1 est certain qu'un contrôle strict  exercé par l'Unesco en la matière et la mise à profit des recherches effectuées  seraient à même de mettre plus ou moins les jeunes gens à l'abri de ce fléau. Le  représentant de la République islamique d'Iran suivra le développement des  travaux à ce sujet à la Commission chargée d'étudier cette proposition.
15.11 L'Unesco a consacré son quatorzième grand programme à la condition de  la femme. Lorsqu'on aborde ce débat, il ne convient pas d'invoquer le fait que  la moitié de la population mondiale est composée de femmes et l'autre d'hommes  pour éluder les problèmes de l'une au profit de ceux de l'autre. L'Iran étant un  pays islamique et possédant une culture différente de celle de l'Occident, nous  sommes toujours indignés d'entendre dire, lorsqu'on parle de la condition des  femmes qu'il s'agit de celles des pays du tiers monde, en sous-entendant que la  condition dans laquelle evolue la femme occidentale doit s'étendre à Celles des  autres pays du monde. Soulever la question dans cette optique ne résiste pas à  l'analyse. 11 ne faut pas, en vérité, dissocier la question féminine de la con-  dition humaine en soi dans le monde. Une telle discrimination ne peut que nuire  à la dignité des femmes, dont les problèmes sont les mêmes que ceux des hommes.  L'effort que doit déployer l'Unesco dans ce domaine aura pour thème majeur ce  postulat que l'homme doit s'affranchir des liens de spéculation, de domination  politique ou économique, et qu'en aucun cas il ne devrait être considéré comme  un outil ou un moyen de production. De même, la femme ne doit pas etre prise  pour un moyen de plaisir, ni comme un objet, étant donné que ses facultés lui  permettent de devenir savante, politicienne, directrice, et par-dessus tout une  bonne épouse et mère. L'expérience accumulée par la République islamique d'Iran
377    démontre que la liberté de la femme est le gage de l'indépendance et de la  liberté du système politique, économique et culturel. C'est dans cette perspec-  tive que la République islamique d'Iran est parvenue à augmenter le nombre des  écoles destinées aux jeunes filles et à ouvrir de grandes possiblités aux femmes  et aux jeunes étudiantes dans les universités. Notre pays a enregistre de grands  succès dans l'alphabétisation des femmes adultes au sein de la société au même  titre que les hommes. L'Unesco a pour devoir de faire des efforts pour la  renaissance des hautes valeurs de la famille. Sur ce point, nous souhaitons un  plein succès aux programmes culturels et éducatifs à mener dans la perspective  de l'Année mondiale de la famille.
15.12 Quant à l'éducation, on doit lui accorder une importance encore plus  grande. Et cela ne sera possible que si, premièrement, on fait abstraction des  analyses purement matérielles et mécaniques et on admet comme principe fondamen-  tal les affinités déontologiques communes et durables auxquelles nous avons déjà  fait allusion et si, en second lieu, on tient compte de la diversité des cultures  et des civilisations et on met réellement en pratique le principe du respect de  la diversité des cultures qui fait partie des objectifs de l'Unesco.
15.13 I1 n'est des lors que très juste de bouleverser la politique qui préva-  lait jadis à l'endroit des différentes cultures pour y introduire le principe de  l'égalité et le rejet de toute discrimination dans ce domaine. Si l'Unesco est  déterminée, somme toute, 6 inculquer la paix dans les esprits par le développe-  ment de l'éducation, elle se doit d'adopter des mesures qui tendraient 6 faire  une place appropriée aux cultures autres que celles de l'occident qui prédominent  actuellement. I1 est indéniable que l'imposition des mécanismes standardisés  occidentaux dans le domaine de l'éducation portera une grave atteinte à l'objec-  tif reconnu par l'Unesco, c'est-à-dire le respect de la diversité des cultures.  A défaut d'une telle politique, l'Unesco s'éloignera inconsciemment de ses  objectifs originels. Les expériences faites à cet égard par la République isla-  mique d'Iran témoignent que sous cet angle, la question prend toute son impor-  tance dans l'enseignement et l'éducation. Nous avons réussi, en nous replongeant  dans notre tradition culturelle, et en dépit de nombreuses difficultés dues à la  guerre, vieille de huit ans, qui nous a été imposée, à enregistrer de grands  succès dans l'alphabétisation des adultes ainsi que dans la généralisation de  l'éducation en faveur des enfants scolarisables.
15.14 Par ailleurs, il convient que les experts s'occupant de l'environnement  et de la sauvegarde de la nature rappellent régulièrement que la politique de  développement des sciences et de la technologie ne doit pas mettre en péril  l'harmonie qui devrait régner dans la nature. Nous estimons que la nature trans-  cendante qui est la manifestation d'une puissance surnaturelle, doit faire  l'objet d'une constante preoccupation et, dans cet esprit, l'Unesco doit faire  appel à toutes ses capacités pour protéger et préserver l'environnement dans  l'intérêt des générations à venir.
15.15 I1 revient à l'Unesco de mettre le Golfe persique 6 l'abri de la situa-  tion alarmante qui y règne actuellement. Le moindre retard dans ce domaine, et  le silence que l'on observe vis-à-vis des raids par l'Irak, les Etats-Unis  d'Amérique et leurs partenaires, contre les navires, l'indifférence face aux  attaques perpétrées par l'Irak contre les installations pétrolières dans le  Golfe persique, entraîneront une pollution aggravée de cette région et feront du  Golfe persique un endroit quasiment impropre à la vie et, à ce titre, porteront  une atteinte irréparable à l'humanité.
15.16 Le grand programme III - La communication au service des hommes, touche  à des domaines privilégiés de l'Unesco. N'est-il pas vrai que l'image du tiers  monde et les faits réels concernant les mouvements de libération et tout ce qui  a trait aux luttes contre les systèmes de domination, sont constamment présentés  de façon biaisée. Le nouveau programme de l'Unesco sur le nouvel ordre mondial  de l'information aura le soutien de la République islamique d'Iran et, dans ce  domaine, il est souhaitable que le transfert de l'information scientifique et la  répartition équitable des fréquences des ondes de radio et de télévision ainsi  que le rôle des programmes éducatifs fassent l'objet d'une plus grande attention.  Si l'utilisation des satellites de télécommunications ne fait pas l'objet d'un  réglement approprié, le domaine culturel des peuples sera menacé et le respect  que l'Unesco se doit d'observer à l'égard des différentes cultures n'aura plus  aucun sens. La création d'un comité conjoint entre l'ONU, l'Unesco et l'Union  mondiale des télécommunications en vue d'instituer une coordination au sujet des  aspects moraux, éducatifs et culturels de l'utilisation de l'espace, sera évi-  demment un pas essentiel. De même, la mise en place d'agences de presse indépen-  dantes sera un pas objectif vers la destruction du monopole en matière  d'information.
15.17 S'agissant du programme relatif à la culture et l'avenir, la République  islamique d'Iran exprime sa satisfaction de voir proclamer les dix dernières
378    années du XXe siècle Décennie mondiale du développement culturel et apporte tout  son appui à cette initiative. Je saisis d'ailleurs cette occasion pour rappeler  le rôle déterminant de la langue et de la littérature persanes dans la structure  d'une importante partie de la culture humaine et je voudrais à cet égard propo-  ser qu'une association asiatique pour la langue et ia litérature persanes soit  fondee et appuyée par l'Unesco en coopération avec les pays de langue persane et  ceux des pays dont une partie des populations s'exprime dans cette langue.
15.18 D'autre part, la patrimoine culturel de tous les pays doit bénéficier  de la protection de l'Unesco. Je dois dire malheureusement qu'en raison des fré-  quentes agressions systématiques à l'encontre de notre patrimoine culturel et de  nos monuments historiques, la Convention de la Haye de 1954 se trouve fortement  affaiblie dans son application. L'absence d'une intervention efficace et préven-  tive de l'Unesco a largement contribué à réduire l'efficacité de cette Conven-  tion. Tout en remerciant le Directeur général d'avoir envoyé deux missions d'ex-  perts en République islamique d'Iran pour constater de près les dégâts qui ont  été Causés au patrimoine culturel, aux monuments historiques et aux institutions  éducatives, il faut bien dire que les rapports qu'ils étaient chargés d'établir  n'ont pas été publiés pour des raisons qui nous sont évidentes.
15.19 Monsieur le Président, n'est-il pas convenu que lorsqu'un pays viole  délibérément en temps de conflit la Convention de La Haye de 1954 les Etats  parties à cette Convention doivent tenir une réunion extraordinaire en vue de  trouver les moyens de mettre fin 6 ces violations ? I1 serait apportun que le  Conseil exécutif et la Conference générale, au lieu de débattre des questions  qui sont davantage du ressort de l'ONU, s'occupent plutôt de leurs devoirs prin-  cipaux, notamment du respect et de l'application de la Convention de 1954 !
15.20 L'Unesco est reconnue comme le seul recours international dans le  domaine de la préservation du patrimoine culturel de l'humanité et c'est pour  cette raison qu'elle ne peut rester indifférente aux dégâts que subissent les  patrimoines culturels dans le monde entier. La destruction des oeuvres histo-  riques situées à La Mecque et Médine, lieux les plus saints de l'Islam et  pèlerinage commun d'un milliard de musulmans du monde, est l'une des opérations  les plus inquiétantes qui.exige des démarches urgentes et préventives de la part  de l'Unesco. La sauvegarde des biens culturels, et également le retour de ceux  qui ont été illégalement transférés dans d'autres pays impliquent qu'un inven-  taire complet soit dressé de toutes les oeuvres et vestiges culturels se trouvant  dans les musées de par le monde, et la République islamique d'Iran est disposée  à apporter à la réalisation de ce projet tout le concours technique et financier  possible, et 6 y coopérer.
15.21 Vu les obligations qui s'imposent 5 l'Unesco en matière de contribution  à une meilleure connaissance mutuelle des peuples et de leur passe scientifique,  culturel et historique, la République islamique d'Iran propose que soit rédigé  un recueil complet, en plusieurs volumes, sur l'"Histoire de la culture et des  sciences islamiques" à partir des informations de base qui pourraient exister  dans l'ensemble des pays islamiques. Notre pays est dispose à apporter un  concours financier et scientifique dans ce domaine.
15.22 Monsieur le Président, la définition de termes tels que coopération,  préjugé et paix, et la désignation d'une instance pour en expliciter les défini-  tions revêtent une importance fondamentale. Aussi longtemps que le respect et ia  dignité humaine ne seront pas mis en avant, tant que la diversité culturelle  n'aura pas reçu l'attention voulue, aussi longtemps que l'aspect authentique et  pur de la culture humaine, c'est-à-dire les valeurs sublimes, la morale et la  spiritualité qui ont toujours été les caractéristiques de la vie humaine, le  principal trait et le point culminant de la vie culturelle de l'homme, ne rece-  vront pas l'attention qu'ils méritent, les préjugés demeureront toujours aussi  vivaces.
15.23 En vertu des termes de son Acte constitutif et par souci de conscience,  l'Unesco se doit de se préoccuper sérieusement de l'instauration d'une paix  durable, en tant que question majeure au niveau mondial. Le silence observe face  aux conduites barbares et aux destructions portera atteinte 6 la situation  morale, sociale et culturelle de l'Unesco. Cette Organisation doit condamner  catégoriquement l'usage des armes chimiques, surtout contre les civils, usage  qualifié par la communauté internationale comme un des plus éloquents exemples  de crime contre l'humanité. Elle doit, en sa qualité d'organisation scientifique,  éducative et culturelle préoccupée par l'environnement humain et naturel, rejeter  la production des armes de cette nature. Toute hésitation ou atermoiement dans  la condamnation de l'agresseur et toute tergiversation dans la demande sérieuse  de punition le rendront plus belliqueux. Cette erreur a déjà été commise il y a  quelques décennies dans le passé et c'est cela qui força les Palestiniens à  quitter leurs demeures, à voir leur patrie occupée par un groupe d'agresseurs et  ce territoire dénommé "Israel". Le premier sentiment belliqueux du régime usur-
379    pateur d'Israël est apparu dans cette même période, et tant qu'Israël ne sera  considéré comme agresseur qu'en paroles, tandis que son comportement sera sou-  tenu en pratique, il cont.inuera ses menées d'agression et ne cessera pas de  détruire le patrimoine culturel des musulmans a Jérusalem. Si les conduites  agressives ne sont pas découragées et condamnées, la tentation sera grande ,de  commettre d'autres agressions et le champ demeurera libre aux velléités  expansionnistes.
15.24 Plus que toute autre organisation internationale, l'Unesco doit se mon-  trer sensible a l'agression, puisqu'elle a 6th elle-même victime d'une agression  de nature anticulturelle, victime du même ordre qui, de nos jours, a mis à feu  le Golfe persique par la présence de ses navires de guerre, favorisant: ainsi  l'extension de la guerre dans cette région, avec la complicité du régime irakien.
15.25 Le régime saoudien a 6th encouragé a tirer sur les pélerins sans défense  et non armés. Le massacre des pélerins de La Mecque, maison de Dieu et lieu de  sécurité divine, la participation officielle et ouverte a la guerre contre la  République islamique d'Iran, les attaques illégales des navires commerciaux, les  pressions exercées sur les organisations internationales, la protection offerte  au régime sioniste pour qu'il puisse continuer ses agressions contre les Pales-  tiniens, ce qui se passe au Nicaragua ou en Afrique du Sud, tels sont les actes  agressifs auxquels il faut pour toujours barrer la route grâce 6 la solidarité  internationale.
15.26 Si l'Unesco compte véritablement apporter son concours à l'instauration  de la paix, elle doit tout d'abord s'employer 5 identifier l'agresseur et, sur  le plan moral, à le condamner. Elle doit également faire entendre, au nom de sa  mission, la voix des pays victimes d'agression dans le monde entier. Le statut  de l'Unesco lui fait un devoir de faire prévaloir le respect et la dignité de  l'homme, de même que la paix et la liberté, et d'y apporter tout son concours.  L'Unesco ne pourrait-elle pas prendre les devants et demander la création d'un  tribunal qui passerait en jugement l'agresseur dans la guerre imposée entre  l'Irak et l'Iran ? Est-il si difficile d'identifier la partie qui a violé toutes  les conventions concernant la guerre, ia sécurité internationale, l'environne-  ment, le patrimoine culturel, le traitement des prisonniers de guerre, des  malades et des blessés, l'attaque contre des objectifs civils, et, de manière  générale, toutes les règles humanitaires ?
15.27 Je forme le souhait que la présente Conférence générale parvienne aux  objectifs qu'elle s'est assignés et que les acquis enregistrés au cours,de cette  réunion puissent favoriser la paix et la compréhension internationales, Puisse  arriver le jour OU les délégués des peuples représentés ici assisteront 5 l'épa-  nouissement moral et matériel de leurs peuples respectifs dans un climat dégagé  de toute tyrannie et de toute exploitation, Inch Allah. Je vous remercie de  votre attention.  L6 * El PRESIDENTE:  Agradezco al jefe de la delegación de la República Islámica del Irán su  intervención. La delegación del Iraq ha pedido hacer uso de su derecho de res-  puesta, y podrá ejercerlo al final de esta sesión. Tiene ahora la palabra el  Excmo. Sr. Moses B. Dumbuya, Ministro de Educación, Asuntos Culturales y Depor-  tes de Sierra Leona y jefe de la delegación de su pais.
(16) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran. The  delegation of Iraq has requested the right of reply, which will be granted to it at  the end of this meeting. I now give the floor to H.E. Dr Moses B. Dumbuya, Minister of  Education, Cultural Affairs and Sports and head of the delegation of Sierra Leone.
17.1 Mr DUMBUYA (Sierra Leone):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates and observers, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset,  permit me, Mr President, to associate my delegation with the sentiments expressed  by earlier speakers in offering you our warmest congratulations on your election  to this high office. We are confident that, with your sagacious leadership, you  will conduct the affairs of the Conference with all fairness and equanimity,  striving .constantly for consensus and constructive decisions which will lead to  fruitful 'results. My delegation therefore wishes you every success throughout  this session.
17.2 Let me take this opprotunity, Mr President, to commend the gracious  manner in which the outgoing President, who presided over the twenty-third  session of the General Conference, H .E. Mr Nikola': Todorov of Bulgaria, carried  out his onerous responsibilities during his term of office. I am sure we all    appreciated the time and energy he devoted to the smooth running of the Organiz-  ation during those trying times. His election was timely and encouraging and my  delegation would want to thank him publicly for a task so well done.
17.3 I also wish to re-echo the satisfaction and appreciation already  expressed by previous speakers regarding the tremendous work done so far by the  Chairman and members of the Executive Board which should make our deliberations  here much easier. The Government and people of Sierra Leone have no doubt  whatsoever, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, that you will continue to measure  up to our expectations in discharging the responsibilities of this office with  honour and dignity. Unesco, we believe, stands in need of your qualities,  particularly at this time when the many pressing problems of yester-year cry out  for urgent solutions in our day. On behalf of H.E. Major-General Dr Joseph Saidu  Momoh, President of the Republic of Sierra Leone, the Government and people of  Sierra Leone, I wish to offer you our sincere congratulations on your excellent  work. I also wish to express my delegation's high appreciation of the excellent  report by the Director-General which shows the quality and level of seriousness  of his work during his term of office.
17.4 Mr President, at a time when the world is passing through a grave crisis  with mounting tensions between the power blocs and the dangerous policy of the  arms race, this General Conference session provides us with an opportunity to  reflect on and to plan in a concerted way, themes which are fundamental to our  quest for peace, international co-operation and development. We need urgent and  effective solutions, and, as we examine the Draft Programme and Budget for 1988-
1989 which has been presented to this august assembly for approval, my delegation  is convinced that Unesco has again risen to its task and given us a programme  worthy of serious consideration by this body. Indeed, the Draft Programme and  Budget for 1988-1989, sympathetic to the spirit and content of the second Medium-  Term Plan, has to some extent succeeded in achieving the much desired balance  between the demands of reflection and those of action; and for this, I would like  to commend the Director-General and his staff.
17.5 My delegation has read many of the documents submitted by the Executive  Board to the Conference with deep interest. In doing so, we have noticed the many  efforts being made to implement the reforms recommended by the Temporary  Committee set up by the Executive Board at its 119th session with a view to  restructuring the work of the Organization so that it can respond more effec-  tively to the changing world situation and achieve its objectives more easily and  rapidly. We are happy to note that this restructuring will make provision for  continuing consultations at various levels and the strengthening of intersectoral  co-ordination and co-operation.
17.6 In addition to what my technical experts will be saying in the various  conunissions, I wish Mr President, to comment briefly on some items in the Draft  Programme and Budget for 1988-1989.
17.7 Major Programme I, as I see it, is vital in that it is in the right  direction of the Organization's major role as a laboratory of ideas and ideals  for the intellectual, scientific and cultural co-operation of Member States. This  major programme should help Member States to focus on world problems as a  strategy for developing solutioiis which should be translated into action pro-  grammes. Unesco has a special responsibility here to influence those factors  which should enable mankind to make the right decisions to reverse the present  dangerous world trends. In this critical hour, therefore, we should all join  hands in strengthening the capability and influence of Unesco to meet the global  'challenges. Consequently, we need to give support to the actions proposed in  Major Programme I which underline the determination of Unesco to take a global  view of the world situation and intensify the struggle against prejudice,  intolerance, racism and apartheid in order to promote peace and international  understanding and the human and political rights of all peoples.
17.8 My delegation, Mr President, recognizes Unesco's stand that education  should not be limited to a few in order to enable them to suppress, oppress,  subjugate and strangulate the socio-economic and development efforts of the  majority. It is this concern that has a special appeal to us, particularly in a  developing country like Sierra Leone.
17.9 In our own modest contribution towards 'education for all', my govern-  ment recently announced the provision of tuition-free education for primary and  secondary education with effect from the 1987-1988 academic year. Realizing the  need for the availability of textbooks and learning materials in schools, my  government has embarked on a policy of supplying textbooks free of cost at the  primary level. Considering the present high cost of secondary school textbooks,  my government has recently launched a cost-recovery textbook project. It has
381    contracted with a consortium of publishers in Great Britain which provides the  books at a 40 per cent discount so that the books may be sold at cheaper and  controlled prices throughout the country.
17.10 One of our problems has been the rising figure of illiteracy which calls  for the concerted action and mutual assistance readily provided by Unesco. Here,  we are referring to the Unesco Regional Programme for the Eradication of  Illiteracy in Africa; and the work so far carried out by Unesco in collaboration  with my government and non-governmental organizations has been most encouraging.
17.11 We also appreciate Unesco's programme for setting up regional networks  for the exchange of information and ideas and the pooling of resources in key  areas such as educational innovation and development (I refer here to the NEIDA  Programme Co-ordinated by the Regional Office in Dakar) and educational adminis-  tration and management (the COFORPA Programme co-ordinated by the Regional Office  in Nairobi).
17.12 Mr President, upon independence in 1961 Sierra Leone inherited a  colonial type of education with great emphasis on paper qualifications and white-  collar jobs. In our bid to make primary and secondary education relevant to the  socio-economic environment of the child, my government in collaboration with  UNDP/Unesco in 1975 introduced the Bunumbu Project to train primary school-  teachers for rusal development. This project is currently being evaluated by  Unesco. I would like here to reiterate my government's interest in this project  and to solicit all possible assistance for its continuation.
17.13 Mr President, in order to make education job-oriented, my government is  putting great emphasis on technical and vocational training. Government has  received reports of consultancies in primary, secondary and tertiary education,  arid we are submitting an urgent appeal to Unesco f<jr a consultancy in vocational  and technical education, provision for which, we note with satisfaction, has been  incorporated in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1988-1989.
17.14 Mr President, my delegation notes with encouragement and satisfaction  Unesco's efforts to strengthen the work of the International Programme for the  Development of Communication (IPDC), as outlined in Major Programme III (Communi-  cation in the service of man). The achievements of IPDC justifies my country's  previous support for this programme and the work now undertaken by the Pan  African News Agency (PANA) in our subregion.
17.15 Recognizing the significant role of communication in education and in  the dissemination of ideas, my delegation is appealing to Unesco to further its  work in this area. We also publicly wish to commend Unesco's efforts in  resuscitating the Sierra Leone News Agency and in connection with the establish-  ment of a much needed Communication School for our subregion based in our sister  republic of Liberia.
17.16 ML' President, my delegation welcomes the intensification of the Organiz-  ation's activities in connection with science and its applications to develop-  ment. We in Sierra Leone believe that scientific and technological co-operation  are still an effective way of serving the cause of development and peace. We  therefore call on Unesco to take increasing account of the needs of the develop-  ing countries in their scientific policies and to undertake studies to direct  research towards inexpensive production techniques which would generate the  required employment in the developing countries.
17.17 We also welcome, Mr President, the renewed emphasis on programmes  relating to marine and terrestrial resources and the human environment, on the  International Hydrological Programme and on the Man and the Biosphere Programmes,  in which Sierra Leone has been actively involved through her established national  committees. Under our MAB programme and with the benefit of assistance provided  by the World Wildlife Fund through the Conservation Society of Sierra Leone,  environmental education programmes have gained sufficient momentum and have  improved public awareness of the environmental problems facing us, providing the  appropriate education to combat the dangers of deforestation, soil erosion, and  loss of natural habitat.
17.16 For Unesco, development can mean progress only if the cultural context  in which it takes place is respected. Major Programme XI describes that thrust in  its striking title - 'Culture and the Future'. This direction is suggested at a  Cime when the whole of mankind is preparing to build a new world. My delegation  therefore appreciates the fact that the Draft Programme and Budget for 1988-1989  calls upon Unesco to promote knowledge of culture and to encourage greater aware-  ness and expression of cultural identity. It is also gratifying to note that  Unesco has taken up a range of activities highlighting the specificity and the  universality of the value of various cultures.
17.19 In this connection, the Government of Sierra Leone would like to appeal  to Unesco for assistance in the construction of the proposed Cultural Centre at  Aberdeen, Freetown. This centre, Mr President, will serve as a melting pot for  the development and dissemination of the rich Sierra Leone cultural heritage.
17.20 Mr President, my country has been a member of Unesco since 28 March
1962. Please permit me to publicly restate our firm commitment to all the noble  ideals enshrined in the Organization’s Constitution. Conscious of Mr M’Bow’s  scholarly dedication and determination to advance the frontiers of knowledge and  the basic principles of objectivity, the equality of all men, respect for  universal justice, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms for the  peoples of the world irrespective of race, colour, sex, language or religion, the  University of Sierra Leone some years ago awarded him one of the highest academic  accolades, the degree of Doctor of Civil Law honoris causa. In keeping with this  high honour bestowed upon an outstanding international scholar, I wish to commend  and thank Mr M’Bow for his brilliant work in Unesco, I also wish to welcome his  able successor Mr Federico Mayor to the onerous and numerous challenges  represented by the task of achieving Unesco’s objectives - in the spheres of  social justice, socio-economic development, equality, tolerance, peace and  understanding - in our divided world. Mr President, Honourable Ministers,  Excellencies, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, I thank you all.
(18) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of Sierra Leone for his statement, and I  give the floor to H.E. Mr Khumbagyn Olzvoy, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Chairman of the National Commission for Unesco and head of the delegation of Mongolia.  r-H OJX3BOh (MoHronbcKaR HaponHari Pecnyóns~a) 19.1  OT MMeHM MOHrOJlbCKOfi JJeJleîaqMM C w 3 6 p a ~ ~ e ~  Ha OTBeTCTBeHHbIfi IIOCT npenCenaTeJIR reHepanbH0fi  BarriMM PYKOBOACTBOM HaCTOXqaR CeCCMR 3aBepiüMTCR yCiIeiriH0.  YBaxaeMbiii rocnoam llpencena-renb, n o 3 ~ 0 n b ~ e  m e ,  npemne Bcero, cepnewo n o 3 n p a a ~ ~ b  Bac  KoH@epeHqMM M nomenan BaM ycnexoa B Baiueii pa6ol.e. MoHronbcKaa neneraqm ysepeHa B TOM, ’ITO non
19.2 rocnonIrs llpencenaTenb, rocnoAm reHepanbHbIM nepewop, yaamaeMbre nenerami, nnri  MOHrOJIbCKOfi neneïaqMM HaHHañ CeCCHñ 5lBJiSIeTCR CBOeïO POna 1061rnefi~ofi, TaK KaK MbI OTMe’IaeM B 3TOM ïOny
25-ne~we BCTyIIJleHMR MOHïOJIbCKOfi HaponHoi P e c n y 6 n ~ ~ ~  B YneHbI IOHECKO. 3a 3TM ïOHbI MHP He-  YKiIOHHO IiOnnepXMBana AeRTeJibHOCTb HâiueG aBTOPMTeTHOfi OpraHM3aqMM, npM3BaHHOfi COnehCTBOBaTb  @OpMMpOBaHMIO CaMOïO 6naropon~oro II B03BbIUieHHOïO 9tXOBe’IeCKOïO C03HaHHR B nyXe YBaXeHMñ HaPona-  MM o6pasa XM3HM H qMBMJIM3aqMii npyr npyïâ, YKpeiIneHMR B3aMMOIIOHMMaHHR M MMpHOïO COTPYRHMYeCTBa  OCy~eCTBJIeHMR 6naropon~b1x M ïYMaHHbIX qenefi IOHECKO.
19.3  HaUIe npaBMTeJIbCTB0 BbICOKO OqeHMBaeT 3T0.
3a npomeniuee 25 JieT COTPynHM’IeCTBO MeXny MHP M IOHECKO 3HaWiTeJlbHO pacmMpMnocb M  Mupa.
19.5 rocnonm IIpencenaTenb, x a p a ~ ~ e p m y n  ceronHrrymm nonwTmecKyw O ~ C T ~ H O B K Y  B m p e ,  B  Bonpoc o cynb6ax YenoBeyecTBa Bce ewe ocTaeTcx rnaBHeiiium cpena 06we~~posb1x npo6ne~.  TO Tpe6yeT  KOTOpOh npOXOnMT HaCTORwari CeCCMR reHepaJIbHOfi KOH@peHqMM K)HECKO, XOTWi 6bi OTMeTMTb, YTO  CBeXeïO nOHXOHa B MeXnYHaPOnHbIX Henax, B WiCTHOCTM B ïYMâHMTaPHOfi W COqManbHOfi 06nac~ax. UenM M
3âJlâ’IM K)HECKO He MOïYT 6bITb PaCCMOTPeHbI MHâ’le, YeM B TeCHOfi CBñ3M C KOHI&XqMe# HOBOïO  MbIiIiJieHMR.
19.6 XOTenOCb 6b1 B 3TOfi CBR3M OTMeTMTb, 9TO 3T0 CTpeMJïeHMe K HManOry, neperOBOpaM M COTPYRHM-  MMpOJlIO6MBbIX Ciin, IIpWKne BCeïO COqHâJIMCTiNeCKMX CTpaH. Heo6xons~o 3âMeTMTb, ’IT0 MMeHHO C CoqMa-  JIM3MOM POnMnaCb ïOCynapCTBeHHaR nOJiATMKâ MMpa ii MMpHOïO COCyweCTBOBaHMR. nO3TOMY CeïOnHñ, HaXO-  secmy BO WMR MupHOro 6ynywero SenoBeYecTBa npo6esae.r ce6e nopory 6naronap~ HeycTaHHbIM y c a n w m   n m x  non c B e x m  BemMeM IIOJIHTMKH, oTsesamqeh peansm anepHofi 3pb1, MbI ewe 6onee rny6o~o C O ~ H ~ ~ M   Henpexonmqee ~ H ~ ’ I ~ H I I ~  B MCTOPHM Bcero 9enoBeqecTBa O~TII6pbc~oii pe~onwqmi B Poccm. 3 ~ a  peaonio-  m e a m  Mupa M nonnmiHoro p a s e x m a  Mexny HaqMam, MneanbI 06wec~sa 6e3 s ~ c n n y a ~ a q ~ ~  senoseKa  qWR, 70-neTMe KOTOPOfi 6yneT BCeMiiPHO OTMeUaTbCR B ~ori6pe Cero ronla, BnepBbIe BOiUIOTMnâ B XM3Hb  YeJIOBeKOM.
19.19 B Haruefi CTpaHe C 6onb111il~ MHTepeCOM OTHOCITCX K AeXTenbHOCTM IOHECKO B o 6 n a c ~ ~
06pa30BaHIIñ II MH($OPMa~Mki. npM 3TOM OTpanHO OTMeTMTb, 9TO 3HaSHTenbHOe BHMMaHMe YUenIeTCX YCIIJIe-  HMI0 60pb6bI C HerPaMOTHOCTbIO. MoHronnx, 6 y n y ~  a3MaTCKOfi CTpaHOfi, rne iIOJIHOCTbH) JIMKBMJIMpOBaHa  HeïPaMOTHOCTb 3a ïOEbI HapOnHO6 BJIaCTU, apMnaeT BâXHOe 3Hâ'XeHMe JiMKBIInaqMM HeïPâMOTHOCTM B MIIpe, B  OCyUeCTBJIeHMe peïMOHaJIbHOfl IlpOïpaMMbI ~ceo6~e1-0 OXBaTa Ha9 anbHbIM 06pa30BaHMeM er0 06HOBne-  HHX, M JiMKBMnauMM HeïpaMOTHOCTII B CTpaHaX A ~ M M  II Tuxoro OKeaHa, CaMOfi MOnOnOP 83 perM0HanbHbIX  npOïpaMM IOHECKO "-0 PaCnpOCTpaHeHMIO rPaMOTHOCTM, HeCOMHeHHO 6yUeT CnOCO6CTBOBaTb ROCTMXeHMIO  TOM swcne B pewoae A~IIM I Taxoro oKeaHa, a60 3necb meeTcx caMoe 6onbruoe wcno HerpaMoTHbix B MMpe.
19.20 Eonee TOTO, llPOB03ïJlaUfeHUe MeXAyHapOnHOïO rOna rPaMOTHOCTM, C HHMqMaTHBOh KOTOPOh  MbI HâneeMCñ, YCMJIMTb 6ûpb6y C HerpaMOTHOCTblO II ííOnOXiiT HaSan0 HHTeHCIIBHO# pa6OTe no BbIpa60TKe M  OCyuleCTBJleHIIiO Ha~MOHanbHbIX, PerMOHaJìbHbIX II ïn06anbHbIX CTpâTel'MÜ nO IICKOpeHeHMI0 HerpaMOTHOCTM  abic-rynwna MoHronañ Ha nporunoñ ceccm reHepanbHo8 KoHaepeHUse, B orpoMsoñ cTeneHn nOnXHO, KaK  K 2000 rony.
(19.1) Mr OLZVOY (Mongolian People's Republic) (Translation from the Russian) :  Mr President, allow me first of all most heartily to congratulate you on  behalf of the Mongolian delegation on your election to the important post of President  of the General Conference and to wish you well in your work. The Mongolian delegation  is confident that under your guidance this session will reach a successful conclusion.
(19.2) Nr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, for the Mongolian  delegation the session is something of a jubilee since this year we are celebrating  the twenty-fifth anniversary of the admission of the Mongolian People's Republic to  Unesco. During those years, Mongolia has steadfastly supported the activities of our  authoritative Organization, which is called upon to help fashion human consciousness  at its noblest and loftiest so as to foster respect by peoples for one another's ways  of life and civilizations, and the strengthening of mutual understanding and peaceful  coexistence among the nations. Our country has endeavoured and is endeavouring to make  its modest contribution to the achievement of the noble and humanitarian aims of  Unesco.
(19.3)  and Unesco has increased considerably, and our government greatly values this.
(19.4) Participating in Unesco's activities, Mongolia has concluded anew that the  Organization is an important international instrument of co-operation among States  with different socio-economic systems and a forum for seeking together ways of solving  the many problems that countries are facing. We are convinced that this Organization  is necessary to mankind and consequently must be strengthened on the bäsis of respect  for the interests of all groups represented in it, and in the light of the actual  circumstances of the present-day world.
(19.5) Mr President, in speaking about the current political situation in the world,  which is the background against which this session of Unesco's General Conference is  taking place, I should like to observe that the question of the fate of mankind is  still the chief issue facing the world as a whole. This calls for a fresh approach in  international affairs, particularly in the humanitarian and social fields. The  purposes and tasks of Unesco cannot be regarded otherwise than in close connection  with the concept of the new thinking.
(19.6) I should like to note in this connection that this striving for dialogue,  negotiation and co-operation to secure a peaceful future for mankind is gaining ground  as a result of the tireless efforts of peace-loving forces, predominantly of the  socialist countries. It has to be observed that it was socialism that ushered in peace  and peaceful coexistence as a policy of State. Today, therefore, under the fresh  impulse of a policy that responds to the real situation of the nuclear age, we are all  the more conscious of the lasting significance in the history of mankind as a whole of  the October Revolution in Russia. That revolution, the seventieth anniversary of which  Over the past 25 years, co-operation between the Mongolian People's Republic
385    is to be observed throughout the world this November, first embodied Che ideals of  peace and genuine equality among nations, the ideals of a society without the  exploitation of man by man.
(19.7) Today, the socialist countries, following the trail blazed by the October  Revolution, are engaged in a restructuring and renewal that will make even fuller use  of the advantages of socialism and consolidate the material base of their peace-loving  foreign policy. 'Perestroika' in the USSR and other socialist countries is a fervent  appeal to the world community to concentrate on furthering construction, co-operation  and dialogue, on defending values common to mankind as a whole and on overcoming  global problems, including the chief issue, which is the creation of a non-nuclear and  non-violent world. In this connection, the socialist countries, including Mongolia,  take the view that for all their contradictions and differences, the peoples of the  earth are now partners and allies in the struggle for the survival and progress of the  human species. This is precisely why the peace initiatives of the socialist States are  based on the principle of the indivisibility of international security, which should  be universal and equal for all and embrace all spheres of international relations,  including that of humanitarian relations.
(19.8) An illustration of this is provided by the joint initiative of the group of  the socialist countries concerning the establishment of a comprehensive system of  international peace and security. They propose building a world free of nuclear arms  and free of violence, hatred, fear and suspicion. They propose jointly to seek ways of  solving global problems.
(19.9) Being a co-sponsor of the proposal to establish a comprehensive system of  international peace and Security, Mongolia considers that Unesco could do much to  bring this idea to fruition. We believe that many of the ideas and proposals put  forward in this connection, particularly in the humanitarian field, lie well within  Unesco's fields of competence and therefore deserve its close attention. We consider  that Unesco will be able to do much to strengthen and develop that trust so essential  to mankind and make people fully realize the interdependence and common character of  their destinies. In this connection, I should like to support the appeal made to  Unesco from this rostrum to take part in preparing a world information programme,  under United Nations auspices, to spread the ideas of peace, co-operation and mutual  understanding and trust.
(19.10) Mr President, in the past 40 years or so, Unesco has made a great contri-  bution to the development and extensiori of international understanding and cultural  and scientific co-operation among peoples.
(19.11) We note with satisfaction the encouraging results achieved during the imple-  mentation of the 1986-1987 programme, despite exceedingly difficult circumstances.  This success is fresh evidence of Unesco's viability.
(19.12) In commending the overall activity of the Organization in these recent years,  the Mongolian delegation gives due recognition to the efforts of the Secretariat of  Unesco headed by its Director-General, Mr M'BOW.
(19.13) At the same time, we share the view that serious thought must be given to  further increasing the effectiveness of our Organization. It is important that every-  thing constructive in its activity should be preserved and increased. All Member  States and also the Secretariat must strive together to achieve this.
(19.14) In this connection, the Mongolian People's Republic attaches particular  significance to the preparation of the third Medium-Term Plan of Unesco. In our  opinion, the new Medium-Term Plan should be based on an examination of the global  problems of mankind and substantially contribute to their solution, besides helping to  unite the world community and mobilize the scientific and intellectual potential of  Member States in order to extend and develop international co-operation. It should for  the sake of continuity reflect the basic directions of the second Nedium-Term Plan, in  the light, of course, of new situations and opportunities.
(19.15) At the same time, the new Plan must be marked by more down-to-earth and  purposeful programmes and projects, a reduction iri the total number of activities,  strict deadlines for the achievement of practical results and regular evaluation of  the progress of individual programmes. It should strike a reasonable balance between  intellectual and operational activity. The structural concentration of programmes, the  avoidance of duplication, and improved co-ordination of Unesco's activity with that of  other governmental and non-governmental organizations could become an important  principle of the Plan's preparation.
(19.16) With regard to Unesco's Draft Programme and Budget for 1988-1989, it  corresponds on the whole in our view to the lines of emphasis laid down in Unesco's  second Medium-Term Plan.
(19.17) Attaching great importance as it does to the Organization's activity in the  field of science, the Mongolian delegation is particularly interested to note its  programmes on informatics, biotechnology, renewable energy sources and environmental  protection.
(19.18) Regarding the programme in the field of culture, we consider a prime require-  ment to be its harmonious combination with practical measures planned within the  framework of the World Decade for Cultural Development.
(19.19) In Mongolia, great interest is taken in Unesco's activity in the field of  education and information, in which connection it is gratifying to note that consider-  able attention is being given to extending the campaign against illiteracy. As an  Asian country in which illiteracy has been totally eradicated in the years of people's  power, Mongolia attaches importance to doing away with illiteracy in the world,  including the Asia and Pacific region, for this is where most of the world's  illiterates are to be found. Implementation of the regional programme for the  universal provision and renewal of primary education and the eradication of illiteracy  in the countries of Asia and the Pacific, the most recent of Unesco's regional  programmes for the eradication of illiteracy, will undoubtedly promote the achievement  of this objective.
(19.20) Furthermore, the proclamation of International Literacy Year - support for  which was voiced by Mongolia at the last session of the General Conference - will do  much, we hope, to strengthen the campaign against illiteracy and pave the way for  intensive work on elaborating and implementing national, regional and global  strategies to eradicate illiteracy by the year 2000.
(19.21) Mr President, in carrying out its programme assignments, Unesco should  actively assist the quest for new approaches to solving the pressing problems of man-  kind. As the greatest organization of an intellectual nature, that has amassed  considerable scientific and technological research potential as well as experience in  developing scientific and cultural co-operation among countries, Unesco must become a  power-house of new ideas.
(19.22) Our Organization was founded for the attainment, through joint endeavour, of  the humanitarian aims of contributing to peace by promoting collaboration among the  nations through education, science and culture. In our nuclear age, an age of  scientific and technological progress, Unesco's constitutional aims are taking on new  substance and direction. Recognizing this fact and acting accordingly will ensure that  our Organization continues to serve successfully the common interests of mankind,  uniting the efforts of all peoples for the sake of peace and peaceful co-operation.  Thank you, Mr President.
(20) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Dr Bémolo Botto, Permanent Representative of the Latin Union.  I thank the head of the delegation of Mongolia, and I give the floor to
(21.1) Mr BOTTO (Latin Union) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President of the twenty-fourth session of the General Conference of  Unesco, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Ministers, delegates, Mr Director-General,  distinguished colleagues, my friends all of you, I warmly congratulate the President  of the General Conference, Ambassador %uillermo Putzeys Alvarez, who has been chosen  to guide the proceedings of this international forum of undeniable historical  importance. Ambassador Putzeys is a man of equanimity and consensus, well known in  Unesco for the great intellectual and ethical distinction he brings to his treatment  of world problems.
(21.2) I speak on behalf of the Latin Union, an intergovernmental body currently  composed of the following 24 full Member States: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile,  Colombia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, France, Guatemala, Haiti, Holy See (with a  special status), Honduras, Italy, Monaco, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,  Portugal, Romania, San Marino, Spain, Uruguay and Venezuela. Other States are in the  process of ratifying the so-called Madrid Convention of 15 May 1954, under which they  will become members of the organization.
(21.3) Prior to 1948, the Latin Union was a body governed by private law, but as a  result of the above-mentioned Madrid Convention it became a public law institution.
(21.4) Pierre Cabanes, a distinguished French citizen, championed a brilliant and  felicitous idea, that of promoting Latin culture within an international body. As a  result, States and governments constitute the membership of the Latin Union.
(21.5) Pierre Cabanes laii down as one of the first statutory principles the  following main objective: 'To promote the widest possible intellectual co-operation  among the Member States and strengthen the spiritual and moral bonds that link them;  to foster and disseminate the values of theis common cultural heritage; to strive for  better mutual knowledge of the specific characteristics, institutions and needs of  each of the Latin peoples; to place the moral and spiritual values of Latin culture in  the service of international relations, as a means of achieving maximum understanding  and co-operation among countries and promoting the prosperity of their peoples'.
(21.6) I should like to quote what was said at the twenty-third session of the  General Conference of Unesco: 'The Latin Union has its international headquarters in  Santo Domingo, as a tribute to the Discovery, the fifth century, the first school, the  first temple of Christianity, the first hospital and the first library in the New  World. The working headquarters of our organization is in Paris, where it maintains  close contacts with all the member states'.
(21.7) Pierre Cabanes, first Secretary-General of the Latin Union, died in October
1983. He was succeeded in this high office by .Mr Philippe Rossillon - a dynamic,  extremely cultivated man, astute in his initiatives and with an exceptional capacity  for work and great commitment to the principles of the Latin Union.
(21.8) As its membership expanded to include other States, the Latin Union consoli-  dated its existence and pursued a bold, intelligent and multi-faceted programme.
(21.9) Correspondents have been appointed in other countries; excellent publications  such as dictionaries, thesauri and glossaries have beeri produced covering the five  official neo-Latin languages - Spanish, French, Italian, Portuguese and Romanian.
(21.10) In order to disseminate neo-Latin cultures, the possibility of setting up  radio stations in some countries is being considered. Our programmes are already being  broadcast by Radio Latina - Uruguay. Exhibitions are held periodically to highlight  the development of programmes and projects.
(21.11) These are concerned with the reciprocal teaching of the Romance languages,  the enrichment of scientific and technical vocabulary, the legislative, regulatory and  contractual protection of the cultural identity of the Latin peoples, and the huge  area of Latin culture.
(21.12) Our institution is up to date in such fields as information technology,  computer science, telematics, office automation and machine translation, or in other  words in the new sciences and technologies, and consequently in the ideas that are  shaping what has come to be called 'artificial intelligence'.
(21.13) These are, in broad teras the aspects of the modern scientific and technical  revolution with which we are concerned. The aims of the Latin Union, then, cover a  wide spectrum of contemporary kriowledge.
(21.14) The Latin Union has concluded co-operation agreements with a number of  cultural and scientific institutions, notable among which is the important agreement  with Unesco signed on 1 October 1985.
(21.15) In my capacity as Permanent Representative of the Latin Union to Unesco, I  would like to affirm our commitment to Unesco, its constitutional foundations, its  work as a whole, and its ideals and values and to express our appreciation of the  dedication with which it carries out its responsibilities to the international  community. We support the cultural policy of Unesco, its claim to a universal mission  and its worthy objectives. Unesco represents an imperishable hope for mankind. This is  the dominant feeling of the peoples of the world.
(21.16) Issues of universal significance should be tackled on a global basis. Of  course, the human condition with its acute discrepancies, its ideological contradic-  tions and its not always balanced concepts o5 justice intervenes.
(21.17) However, over and above political ideas, religious beliefs and agnostic  opposition, there exists a constant which i's the minimum culture needed to sustain  life in a constructively based manner.
(21.18) We are passing through difficult times in which statisticians are putting  forward alarming disease and mortality figures for countries afflicted by desertifi-  cation, poverty and shortages of water and basic foodstuffs. The philosophy of despair  leads nowhere, however, and should be resisted. I am an optimist, and I place the  highest value on the work of Uriesco.
(21.19) The representatives of Member States at Unesco and Secretariat officials at  all levels are intelligent, cultivated, responsible and worthy individuals. They are  aware - more than I myself doubtless - of these pressing problems.
(21.20) Ladies and gentlemen, this twenty-fourth session of the General Conference of  Unesco is very wise and is therefore well placed to determine the shape of inter-  national co-operation in this end-of-the-century period approaching the year 2000. The  commencement of the twenty-first century is indeed an historic date for one section of  humanity, but it cannot be said to be so for all the peoples of the world. However, it  is a milestone on the positive path of the creative imagination.
(21.21) Unesco is the beacon that illuminates that path. Let us admit, though, that  the year 2000 is symbolically speaking, a signpost on the path of destiny. A decision  is called for to meet the challenge this date embodies. We should all agree ori some  kind of minimum programme. Unesco cannot implement it with the meagre resources at its  command, but let us agree that it should continue to hold the burning torch aloft. If  it were not to do so, we would be faced by the collapse of faith and the apparent rout  of victory.
(21.22) Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, reverting to more practical matters, the  second Medium-Term Plan (1984-19&9), with its analysis of world problems, is a major  document of contemporary prognosis, and ambitious programes merit our profound  respect. I humbly believe that it would be intellectually irreverent to disregard its  exceptional scope.
(21.23) The Latin Union represents the pursuit of a goal and also the promotion cif  academic values; its intellectual and spiritual roots are deeply imbedded in the  classical, renaissance and contemporary periods.
(21.24) The Latin Union practices the ideals of solidarity, mutual respect and  fraternal relations with all the cultures of the world. We may be seen as a Sriendly  meeting point amid the multiplicity of traditions, secular ideas, spiritual trends and  individual dispositions.
(21.25) We extend our hand to all people of goodwill, rich and poor alike, as an  encouragement in these difficult times.
(21.26) Today we are the Latin Union; tomorrow, while preserving our cultural  identity, we may perhaps constitute a federation with other organizations in the  sphere of international co-operation. Our calling will then be universal, just as the  ideal of men is universal. Thank you.
(22) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Permanent Representative of the Latin Union for his statement,  and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Adel Ismail, Permanent Delegate and head of the  delegation of Lebanon.
(23.1) Mr ISMAIL (Lebanon) (Translation from the Arabic) :  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,  distinguished heads and members of delegations, I wish to join the heads of  delegations who preceded me in congratulating you, Mr President, on behalf of Lebanon  and on my own behalf on your election to the office of President of the twenty-fourth  session of our Organization's General Conference and in wishing you success in your  work, so that the results of our proceedings fulfil our aspirations and those of the  Organization. ï also wish to take this opportunity to reiterate my own and my  country's appreciation of the tireless efforts over the past two years of the  Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, in setting up progLammes and projects for  the coming period. We are also deeply grateful to him for his outstanding services  during his term at the helm of this Organization's Secretariat and for his efforts and  sacrifices on its behalf, achieving results that bear witness to his far-sightedness  and discernment in dealing with Unesco's problems and the intellectual and cultural  problems besetting the modern world.
(23.2) Mr President, Lebanon is eager to continue participating to the best of its  ability in the activities of the Organization with a view to attaining its lofty  objectives, enhancing its efficiency and laying firm foundations for continual action  so that it remains, as wished by its founders, a forum for men and women of science  and culture and a meeting-place where intellectuals can work together for the spread  of science and culture, the solution of world problems, the prosperity of nations and  the preservation of international peace. To the extent that the developing peoples,  with their limited resources, are earnestly striving to gain admission to the advanced  civil.ization of the twenty-first century and to share, however modestly, in. the  benefits of nodern technology, to that extent the rich countries are duty bound to  lend a helping hand to the developing countries out of a sense of human solidarity.  Such solidarity would undoubtedly serve the general interest since world peace is  indivisible and must be based on justice, co-operation and mutual respect among  nations and peoples, both rich and poor, in order to eliminate their disparities  through joint action. For what are the wars that have afflicted humankind from time  immemorial, Mr President, but yet another manifestation of the inequality of peoples.
(23.3) The objective of Unesco's long- and medium-term programmes, already imple-  mented or in course of execution, is to assist in solving world problems that are  becoming increasingly complicated owing to the rapid development of our societies and  the escalation of their political, social, and economic crises. Mr President, I should  like to reaffirm Lebanon's determination to assist in implementing these programmes,  in fulfilling Unesco's objectives and in supporting its overall humanitarian mission.
(23.4) Taking this commitment as its point of departure, my country is particularly  interested in the measures aimed at restructuring our Organisation and at promoting  reform within the framework of its vast responsibilities. Reform, Mr President, is not  a temporary but a permanent process that must be maintained throughout the life of our  Organization. It does not imply creating disorder in Unesco's administrative  machinery, programmes or cultural, educational and intellectual activities on the  pretext of remedying another kind of disorder, or limiting the role of the developing  countries and impeding their effective participation in this international forum on  the pretext that they have not yet reached maturity in spite of their ancient and  venerable civilizations. The Organization's universality calls for the free and full  participation of all countries in its activities on the basis of human solidarity,  cultural interaction and permanent and harmonious participation in its work for the  benefit of humankind and the prosperity of peoples. We therefore support the programme  before us and its proposals for co-operation among States in the fields of culture,  education and training, the eradication of illiteracy and the translation of world  literary masterpieces as outstanding contributions to the advancement of peoples,  broadening the horizons of mutual understanding and co-operation among them and
393    reducing the differences that divide them. We also support the development of the mass  media in view of their highly effective role in improving the quality of human life  and helping countries, however distant, to know more about each other. Lebanon also  warmly supports the programmes relating to women and the improvement of their  situation, given that women constitute one half of society and no society can develop  and improve if half its potential is incapacitated. We also appreciate the Organiz-  ation's services in convening a number of conferences and seminars in the Arab region,  including the meeting organized last June in Amman for senior education officials in  the Arab States, the recent conference of Khartoum on communication policies in the  Arab States, and other seminars on many different aspects of development, education,  documentation and human rights. We warmly welcome the steps that Unesco has taken and  proposes to take with a view to extending and supporting co-operation with the United  Nations Development Programme in the execution of cultural, educational and scientific  projects in'developing countries, especially in the fields of training and the use of  modern technologies. This is a great and praiseworthy initiative which will help the  developing nations to form an integral part of the civilization of the twenty-first  century.
(23.5) Nr President, many of us would certainly like Unesco's programmes to be made  more ambitious in order to spread their benefits. We regret that the Organization's  financial situation has forced the Executive Board and the Secretariat to adopt an  austerity policy that has reduced Unesco's programmes to a minimum. But what we really  deplore under these circumstances is the amount spent each year on arms throughout the  world - hundreds of billions of dollars according to international statistics -  compared with the tiny fraction of that sum spent on the dissemination of science and  culture, the revitalization of the intellectual heritage and the advancement of  peoples. This indicates the full extent of the intellectual crisis and the crisis of  consciousness in which humankind is plunged today.
(23.6) Mr President, I apologize for drawing your attention once again to matters of  which you are no doubt well aware and which are still making the headlines in the  media. But I consider it my duty to recall the consequeIices of the war in my country  and of the persistent Israeli occupation of southern Lebanon, causing destruction and  devastation in schools and cultural and social institutions. I wish to express the  Lebanese Government's gratitude to the Executive Board for agreeing to set up a  special fund for the reconstruction of educational and cultural institutions destroyed  by the war in Lebanon and, on behalf of the Lebanese Government, to invite the  Director-General to make a strong appeal to States and specialized international  institutions to contribute to this fund, thereby expressing their appreciation of  Lebanon's intellectual and cultural contribution to civilization from earliest times,  when it was still in full health and at the height of its creativity, and of its  constructive role down through the centuries and until recent times in the service of  science and knowledge. Unesco's initiative will have a most favourable influence on  the Lebanese people, who can readily resume their role and mission in the service of  ideas and science for their own benefit and for that of the peoples of the region and  the world.
(23.7) I should like to take this opportunity to thank Unesco's Secretariat and the  Director-General for their continuous assistance to us in our difficulties throughout  this severe crisis. We firmly trust that the Organization will continue to support our  educational and cultural institutions, especially the Regional Office for Education in  the Arab States which we consider a symbol of Unesco's presence in Lebanon and which  we hope will soon resume its former activities in Beirut. We also hope that the Organ-  ization will intensify its efforts on behalf of the international campaign for the  safeguarding of Tyre, which is sponsored by Unesco and has received the special  attention of the Director-General, Mr M'Bow, so that it fulfils all our hopes for the  successful safeguarding of this splendid heritage, the restitution of the invaluable  archaeological treasures stolen during the Israeli occupation of southern Lebanon and  the reparation of the damage done to our cultural heritage in its aftermath, to a  heritage that is also a universal heritage, as confirmed by the resolutions of your  General Conference. May I also take this opportunity to reaffirm our interest in the  Director-General's appeal for the revival of the library of Alexandria and his forth-  coming appeal for the preservation of the ancient heritage of the city of Jerusalem.  Lebanon also wishes to assure this Conference of its firm intention of implementing  the project for a human science centre in Jubail, a project generously supported by  Unesco but temporarily interrupted by the war. We are still determined to execute this  project as an effective contribution to the spread of knowledge and understanding  among peoples.
(23.8) The world peace that Unesco is striving for is a peace based on justice,  equality and respect for peoples' identity, their cultural and intellectual heritage  and their human values. Unless these conditions are fulfilled, the peace that our  Organization is seeking and that you are working for will be incomplete, theoretical  and a far cry from the effective and authentic reality. How can such a peace exist  while the peoples of Africa are still subjecf to racial discrimination, while arms are  still flowing into Iraq and Iran, adding fuel to the war between them at a time when
394    the international community should be making every effort to establish peace in the  area and in the Middle East in general, and while the Palestinian people, driven out  of their homeland 40 years ago, are still denied their natural right to self-  determination, a right guaranteed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the  Charter of the United Nations. The Palestinians are still the only people in the world  deprived of that right. Meanwhile Israel proceeds with its illegitimate practices in  the occupied territories, changing the character of the Arab city of Jerusalem,  endangering the ancient holy places and closing universities, institutes and  educational establishments in the West Bank and Gaza.
(23.9) I did not wish to raise these questions, Mr President, but Unesco's lofty  mandate and its intellectual and cultural objectives make it our duty to remind this  international gathering of the fate of ancient and historical s5tes and educational  establishments in very serious danger. I wish to refer in this context to the  objective report submitted by Father Boné confirming the dangers to academic freedom  in the occupied Arab territories and to request the Director-General to extend the  mandate of Father Boné and Professor Lemaire with a view to the preservation of the  cultural heritage and the academic and educational establishments in Jerusalem and the  occupied Arab territories.
(23.10) We are confident, Mr President, that this Conference will fulfil the hopes we  have placed in it and that its success will benefit the Organization and its  universality and contribute to international peace and co-operation. Thank you,  Mr President.
(24) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of Lebanon for his statement.  ALERTE PATRIMOINE POUR LA SAUVEGARDE DE TYR  HERITAGE ALERT FOR THE SAFEGUARDING OF TYRE/.  ALERTA PATRIMONIO PARA LA SALVAGUARDIA DE TIRO  BHHMAHHE: HACJIEAHE! iTPH3bIB 3A COXPAHEHME TMPA  Jy -50 ,jUl Jtt +-&dl A I >  +&Ji et;;  %&q4%#%sAx%P
(25) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I have the pleasure of giving the floor, as announced this morning, to the  Director-General, who will make an appeal for the safeguarding of Tyre. You have the  floor, Mr Director-General.
26.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, voici l'appel, l'"Alerte  patrimoine pour la sauvegarde de Tyr", que je voudrais lancer maintenant, pour  donner suite à une demande des autorités libanaises et après en avoir informé le  Conseil exécutif lors de sa dernière session.
26.2 Tyr est sans doute l'une des plus anciennes métropoles du monde. Dès le  premier millénaire avant l'ère chrétienne, des navigateurs phéniciens fondent  les comptoirs d'Utique, de Carthage, de Nora et de Sulcis, créant ainsi autour  de Tyr un véritable empire commercial, possédant le quasi-monopole des échanges  maritimes en Méditerranée et, le long de la Côte Atlantique, du Pays de Galles à  l'Afrique.
26.3 Mais tels ne sont pas les seuls titres de gloire de la ville. L'inven-  tion de l'alphabet, copié et adapté ensuite par les Grecs, n'est-elle pas attri-  buée à Cadmos, ancêtre du peuple de Tyr ? Sa soeur Europe a donne son nom à un  continent. Et c'est aux Phéniciens que l'on doit la découverte de la pourpre,  devenue la couleur symbole des rois.
26.4 Mais grandeur et prospérité ont souvent alterné avec épreuves et  malheurs. La ville a subi plusieurs sièges - dont ceux de Nabuchodonosor et  d'Alexandre - et connu des conquêtes successives qui l'ont toutes affectée.
395    Presque totalement détruite, elle ne sera que partiellement reconstruite au  XVIIïe siècle - sans jamais retrouver sa gloire passée.
26.5 De superbes vestiges témoignent cependant de son ancienne grandeur et  de l'influence qu'elle a pu exercer sur les civilisations méditerranéennes. Ces  vestiges sont aujourd'hui en grand danger.
26.6 Tyr est une fois de plus menacée. Non seulement du fait des Opérations  de guerre, qui infligent souffrances et destructions à l'ensemble du Liban, mais  aussi du fait d'une modernisation peu respectueuse de l'harmonie des sites. La  démolition de murs et de monuments au profit de nouveaux bâtiments et de nou-  velles routes, les fouilles clandestines et le pillage d'objets de valeur ali-  mentant un trafic illicite, conjugués aux bouleversements provoqués par les Com-  bats, font que, peu 6 peu, se perdent des richesses irremplaçables et, avec  elles, les traces de l'histoire dont elles sont les derniers témoins.
26.7 Le gouvernement du Liban a décidé, en conséquence, de solliciter le  soutien de la communauté mondiale pour entreprendre une Campagne internationale  de sauvegarde des principaux sites archéologiques de Tyr, qui figure sur la Liste  du patrimoine mondial depuis 1985.
26.8 Depuis la première Campagne internationale organisée par l'Unesco pour  sauver les monuments de Nubie, 33 Etats membres ont décidé de mener 31 autres  campagnes, avec l'aide de la communauté internationale. L'expérience acquise au  cours de cette période a montré que de telles campagnes requièrent une solide  infrastructure de gestion, et que leur mise en oeuvre exige du temps et des  moyens financiers suffisants.
26.9 La tragique situation que connaît actuellement le Liban ne permet pas  de mettre en place l'infrastructure nécessaire, ni d'entreprendre l'action  requise pour donner à uge campagne internationale toute l'ampleur voulue. Cepen-  dant, il faut parer d'urgence au danger de destruction des vestj.ges de la ville.  C'est pourquoi, en accord avec les autorités libanaises, l'Unesco a mis au point  dès maintenant un programme d' "alerte patrimoine". Ce programme vise à arrêter  le processus de dégradation générale du site, en mettant fin aux destructions et  aux fouilles clandestines, au pillage et à l'exportation illicite, à la défigu-  ration et à la détérioration des monuments.
26.10 En lançant aujourd'hui une Alerte patrimoine pour Tyr, j'en appelle à  tous ceux qui se sentent profondément concernés par le sort de ce site excep-  tionnel, pour qu'ils sensibilisent l'opinion mondiale au danger que court le  patrimoine historique de la ville et qu'ils unissent leurs forces en vue de lui  éviter tout nouveau dommage, toute nouvelle déprédation, jusqu'à ce que 1'Etat  du Liban soit en mesure d'entreprendre les actions nécessaires à sa préservation  et à sa restauration.
26.11 La population et le gouvernement du pays ont certes la responsabilité  première de veiller à l'intégrité du patrimoine de Tyr. Mais la communauté  internationale doit de son côté, en liaison avec les autorités nationales, les y  aider sur deux plans essentiels. D'abord sur celui de la préservation de l'in-  violabilité du site, en empêchant le transfert et en décourageant l'écoulement  des objets illégalement acquis. Le concours des organisations. internationales,  des gouvernements, des musées et des spécialistes de l'art, est essentiel à cet  égard. Ensuite, sur le plan de la préparation de la campagne ultérieure - paf  une participation à la formation de ceux qui devront en assumer la responsabilite  technique et de ceux qui seront chargés de la conservation et de la restauration  des monuments, ainsi qu'à la mobilisation des fonds nécessaires pour que cette  action puisse être entreprise avec vigueur dès que les circonstances le  permettront.
26.12 TOUS ensemble, faisons en sorte que le monde prenne conscience de la  place qu'occupe Tyr dans son passé commun, mais aussi dans son- avenir commun.  Faisons en sorte que chacun, au Liban mais aussi dans le reste du monde, sache  les dangers qui menacent ce site. Et qu'il participe 5 l'effort commun en vue de  sa protection et de sa préservation pour les générations futures. Merci de votre  attention.
(27) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Director-General for his important 'heritage alert' for the safe-  guarding of Tyre.
(28.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Ladies and gentlemen, as I announced previously, the delegation of Iraq has  invoked its right of reply to a statement made during the general policy debate. The  delegation of Saudi Arabia has invoked the same right.
(28.2) I would like to repeat the recommendation that the right of reply to a reply  should not be abused. I would ask that, as far as possibie, these statements should  not last more than five minutes in the case of the right of reply and three minutes in  the case of the right of reply to a reply. The delegate of Iraq has the floor to  exercise his right of reply.
(29.1) Mr HAIDAR (Iraq) (Translation from the Arabic):  In the Name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate ... Mr President, thank  you for according me the right of reply. The content of the Iranian delegation's  speech is an example of the hypocritical and deceitful behaviour of the Iranian  regime, which has been escalating the war and insisting on its continuation for more  than seven years. The Iranian delegation lamented the damage to human dignity, the  cultural heritage and the environment, but the whole world knows that the Iranian
397    regime has adopted a policy of war and aggression leading to bloodshed and destruc-  tion. There is no way of protecting the cultural heritage against continuous warfare  and constant exposure to the devastating impact of heavy artillery and surface-to-  surface missiles. You must have been deeply moved to hear a few days ago about the  Iranian missile that hit a primary school in Baghdad, killing and injurying hundreds  of children.
(29.2) Responsibility for the consequences of the Iraq-Iran war lies entirely with  the side that perpetuates the hostilities and rejects all international and regional  resolutions and endeavours to find a peaceful and just solution to the conflict.  Latest in the series of rejections was resolution No. 598 adopted by the Security  Council last July, together with Unesco’s resolutions and appeals. Iran acts as  aggressor and then seeks sympathy as the victim of aggression, while continuing the  war, violating the sovereignty of countries other than Iraq, for example Kuwait, and  committing acts of sabotage in Mecca, in many other countries of the region and in the  heart of Europe. It takes hostages and violates the freedom of navigation by attacking  ships and planting mines, thereby drawing foreign fleets into the waters of the Arab  Gulf. Iran also allies itself with Israel against.the sovereignty and security of the  Arab States. The Iranian delegation persists in making false allegations about the use  of chemical weapons, but we all know that we are within our territories, defending our  sovereignty and security, and that it is our right to resist an invasion with every  means at our disposal under international law. You cannot expect a people whose land  is invaded and parts of it occupied to welcome its attackers with roses and garlands.
(29.3) Since 1981, at a series of international and regional conferences, Iraq has  been calling for an investigation to determine responsibility for starting the  conflict and for the establishment of a neutral committee to find out which side is  responsible for its escalation and continuation. Iran has repeatedly rejected this  idea. All it wants is an a priori judgement condemning Iraq. What kind of investi-  gation is that, may I ask?
(29.4j Lastly, Mr President, the lofty goals for which Unesco was founded can only  be attained in a context of peace, security, stability and respect for the sovereignty  of others and for international law. We therefore call on the international community,  including Unesco, to redouble its efforts to compel the authorities in Tehran to  accept the voice of reason and of peace. Thank you.
(30) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  We have heard the statement of the distinguished delegate of Iraq, who has  exercised his right of reply. The Secretariat tells me that the distinguished delegate  of the Islamic Republic of Iran has also asked to exercise the right of reply.
31. Mr MAHALLATI (Islamic Republic of Iran):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Thank you,  Mr President. The principal function of Unesco, as stipulated in its Consti-  tution, is to contribute to peace and security through cultural, scientific and  educational means. Seven years after its inception, the war of aggression  initiated by Iraq has not been de-escalated; rather, despite the adoption of  numerous resolutions by this forum and other international organizations, Iraq,  throughout the course of the past year, has escalated its aggression in almost  all fields to an unprecedented scale. I äo not intend to refer to countless  instances of violations of international rules and principles by Iraq; but I  cannot remain silent about the fact that , despite all constructive and positive  initiatives by the Director-General of Unesco, Unesco as a whole, falling short  of taking any effective measure towards a lasting, honourable and durable  solution to the war, has failed to protect and preserve.the Hague Convention of
1954 from continuous and systematic and grave violations by the Iraqi regime. In  the past year alone 56 schools and educational institutions have been demolished  and 156 students have been martyred. Two weeks ago two schools in the cities of  Ilam and Khoramabad were attacked, as a result of which tens of innocent students  lost their lives. Many of the historical and cultural properties of our country,  a number of which have been registered as part of the world cultural heritage,  have been continuously and seriously damaged and irreparably destroyed. Attacks  aguinst civilian population centres and cities in general have been escalated,  despite numerous appeals launched by the Secretary-General of the United Nations  in this regard. The efforts of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, even  within the context of resolution 598, have been deliberately sabotaged by Iraq in  recent months, while at the same time the same regime has fanned the flame of the  war in the Persian Gulf supported by the United States. Use of chemical warfare
11  by the same regime which has hypocritically and jokingly gifted Unesco with a  door called ‘the door of peace’ has created a turning point in the whole history  of the use of this inhuman weapon. As has been confirmed in the report prepared  by a United Nations expert team which investigated the area after several Iraqi  attacks, for the first time in history chemical weapons have been extensively  used against civilian populations. Mr President, in such a situation, Unesco’s  concern should at the very least remain...
(32) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I am sorry to interrupt you, distinguished delegate, but you have already  gone beyond the three minutes allowed for the right of reply to a reply. We shall now  grant the right of reply to the delegation of Saudi Arabia. I would also ask him not  to go beyond five minutes.
(33) Mr AL-JAMMAZ (Saudi Arabia) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. I regret that I am compelled to take the floor in  reaction to the calculated distortion of the truth and indeed calculated lies ,that we  have heard from the Iranian delegate. He spoke about the holy cities of Mecca and  Medina, and the destruction of their monuments. I am quite convinced that the Iranian  delegate unfortunately knows nothing at all about the monuments of: Mecca and Medina,  and that he stands alone against the testimony of the entire Islamic world, since it  is well known that these two cities have never before had so much effort invested in  their preservation, improvement, and development. He also accused the Kingdom of Saudi  Arabia of using arms against pilgrims. The whole world knows where Iran stands and  where Saudi Arabia stands. If any are to be accused, then least of all the Kingdom of  Saudi Arabia, which does not take up arms against pilgrims but opens its heart to  them, providing them with all available facilities and services. That is the Kingdom  of Saudi Arabia, the truth acknowledged by the whole world with the exception of the  Iranian delegate. But does making the pilgrimage, Mr President, involve holding  demonstrations and settimg fire to houses and means of transport? And should Iranian  pilgrims be accompanied by some ten thousand revolutionary guards assigned the task of  organizing the demonstrations and disrupting the pilgrimage for millions of people?  Does the concept of pilgrimage provide for the case of 160 revolutionary guards  arriving as pilgrims on a special plane, each carrying a suitcase full of explosives?  We have provided the world with an accurate description of what really happened. That  is the truth and there is no truth in the fabrications of the Iranian delegate. Thank  you.
(34) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  exercise the right of reply. I ask him not to speak for more than three minutes.  The delegate of the Islamic Republic of Iran has the floor in order to
(35) Mr AMID (Islamic Republic of Iran) (Translation from the Arabic):  In the Name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. God said I... the Sacred  Mosque, we have made open to all men - equal is the dweller there and the visitor from  the country ...l. Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, let me  tell you about a barbarous massacre and acts of carnage unparalleled in history.  Indeed history will record the details of the savagery of those who killed hundreds of  pilgrims to the Sacred House of God, in the sanctuary of the Holy Shrine, those who  unjustly and aggressively claim to be the servants of the two Holy Places. History  will also record the moral steadfastness of the Iranian Muslims and their commitment  to Islamic principles even under such adverse circumstances. The massacre in Mecca and  the carnage in the Holy Place will go-down in history as an unprecedented crime and as  clear evidence of the treachery of Al Saud, their hatred of the faithful and their  desecration of religion. It will stand as overwhelming evidence against the male-  factors and their supporters, agents and masters. Ladies and gentlemen, the wounded  pilgrims, women and old men, were bleeding profusely and appealing for help but no one  could come near them because the boors and louts of the Saudi Government were shower-  ing them with blows and abuse. And when some of the pilgrims tried to save the wounded  women they were fired on. The Saudis opened fire on them and on all the pilgrims,  including women, the old and the wounded. They even fired on Iranian ambulances. As a  result of this barbarous slaughter, thousands of pilgrims to the House of God were  wounded and hundreds of innocent men and women killed. Mr President, ladies and  gentlemen, such was the massacre of Friday of the month of Muharram in the holy  country of which God said 'Whoever enters it attains security'. The other crime  committed by Äl Saud, in the land of revelation and the heart of the Islamic world was  the destruction of all the Islamic sites, which was ... .
(36.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  allowed for the right of reply are over.
(36.2)  I am sorry to interrupt you, distinguished delegate, but the three minutes  We will continue our work tomorrow. The meeting stands adjourned.  La séance est levée à 18 h.30  The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m.  Se levanta la sesión a las 18.30