Trente et unième séance plénière
13 novembre 1987, à 19 h 20  Président : M. PUTZEYS ALVAREZ (Guatemala)  Thirty -first plenary m e e  ting
925    RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION II RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF COMMISSION II: RESOLUTIONS m RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISION II: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES
(1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Ladies and gentlemen, our work today is to take note of the report of Com-  mission II and consider the various recommendations formulated by it. The report of  the Commission is contained in documents 24 CI115 and 24 CI115 Add. and Corr.; the  Commission's recommendations are contained in documents 24 CI115 Annex-Recommendations  and 24 C/115 Add. and Corr. 1 and 2 Annex-Recommendations.
(1.2) I shall give the floor to the Chairman of Commission II, Mr Kubrycht, who  will introduce the report of the Commission and the relevant recommendations.
(2.1) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Thank you, Mr President. It is an honour for me to introduce the report of  Conunission II, the result of an outstanding joint effort on the part of the  delegations of Member States, members of the Secretariat and the Commission's  officials, in particular the Rapporteur, whose devotion to duty was boundless. Through  you, Mr President, I should like to express to this plenary meeting our thanks to all  those who made a valuable contribution through their hard work and, above all, the  generous enthusiasm they displayed throughout the meetings, which helped to create an  excellent climate of professional co-operation and understanding.
(2.2) Mr President, since delegates have the report and have had adequate time to  study it, I do not feel it is necessary to provide a detailed introduction. I should  prefer to put forward some considerations of a general nature.
(2.3) I should like to emphasize not only the warm spirit of co-operation to which  I have just referred, which will surely have left a lasting impression on all those  involved, but also the general consensus that was reached with regard to the relevance  and high standard of the three major programes we examined; there was unanimous  support for the topics pertaining to 'Education for all', 'The formulation and appli-  cation of education policies' and 'Education, training and society', and only a few  amendments of relatively minor importance concerning the proposed activities. I par-  ticularly welcome the special emphasis placed at our meetings on primary education,  with reference both to the democratization of education and the struggle against  illiteracy. I likewise appreciate the great importance accorded to technical and  vocational education, which, in the current economic world context, can help to  increase productivity in many Member States. I should also be glad if note were to be  taken of the many references in the Commission's report to the importance of activi-  ties relating to the education of young people, women and particular groups.
(2.4) Finally, still under the heading of general considerations, I should like to  say how encouraging it has been to find many Member States, despite the budgetary con-  straints of which we are aware, putting forward proposals for mutual assistance and  increased co-operation with the Secretariat to ensure the implementation of the  programme.
(2.5) Mr President, as you mentioned previously, the report that Commission II pre-  sents to plenary today has as its main objective, firstly, to provide information on  our discussions and decisions and, secondly, to put forward a series of recouhen-  dations. In view of the fact that the General Conference only takes note of the  narrative part of the report, but examines individually each of our recommendations, I  should like, if you agree, to introduce firstly the report of Commission II and subse-  quently to present our various recommendations one by one. I therefore invite the  General Conference to take note of the report of Commission II as it appears in docu-  ment 24 C/115, together with the relevant amendments listed in document 24 CI115 Add.  and Corr.
(3.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Chairman of Commission II for his general introduction to the  work of the Commission. I propose, then, to the plenary that- it take note of the  report of Commission II, as suggested by the Chairman of the Commission. If there are  no objections, I consider that we may take note of the report.
(3.2) In the absence of any objections, it is so decided.  Résolutions
(4.1) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Mr President, the Commission's recommendations are set out in document
24 C/115 Annex-Recommendations, with a few amendments to be found in the addenda-  corrigenda to this document.
(4.2) Commission II firstly recommends, by unanimous decision, that the General  Conference adopt, with respect to Major Programme II, 'Education for all', resol-  ution 2.1 contained in paragraph i of document 24 C/115 Annex-Recommendations,  together with the minor amendment to be found in the addendum-corrigendum.
(5.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) :  Thank you very much, Mr Kubrycht, I submit to plenary draft resolution 2.1.
(5.2) In the absence of objections, resolutior, 2.1 is adopted.
(5.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Paraaraphe 34
(6) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Mr President, Commission II decided by consensus to recommend that the  General Conference adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 34 of document 24 C/115  Annex-Recommendations, concerning the struggle against illiteracy. This recommen-  dation, as indicated in the addendum-corrigendum, will become recommendation 2.
(7.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  mitted by the Chairman of Commission II.
(7.2) In the absence of objections, the resolution is adopted.
(7.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Thank you very much, Mr Kubrycht, I submit to plenary the resolution sub-  Parasraphe 2
(8) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia) , Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Mr President, Commission II recommends that the General Conference adopt the  resolution concerning the Regional Programme €or the Universalization and Renewal of  Primary Education and the Eradication of Illiteracy in Asia and the Pacific as it  appears in paragraph 2 of document 24 CI115 Annex-Recommendations, together with the  minor amendments contained in the Addendum-Corrigendum.
(9.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I submit the draft resolution to the plenary.
(9.2) In the absence of objections, the resolution is adopted.
(9.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Paragraphe 3
(10) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Mr President, Commission II recommends that the General Conference adopt the  resolution concerning the preparation and implementation of a regional programme for  the universalization and renewal of primary education and the eradication of adult  illiteracy in the Arab States region, which is contained in paragraph 3 of document
24 C/115 Annex-Recommendations, together with the minor amendments to be found in the  addendum and corrigendum.
(11.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Chairman of Commission II. If there are no objections, we may  consider the resolution to be adopted by the General Conference.
(11.2) In the absence of objections, the resolution is adopted.
(11.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Parasraphe 4
(12) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Thank you, Mr President. Commission II recommends for adoption by the Confer-  ence the resolution concerning the programme for International Literacy Year, which is  contained in paragraph 4 of document 24 CI115 Annex-Recommendations.
(13.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr Kubrycht.
(13.2) In the absence of objections, the resolution is adopted.
(13.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Parasraphe 5
(14) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Mr President, Commission II recommends that the General Conference adopt the  draft resolution contained in paragraph 5 of document 24 CI115 Annex-Recommendations,  concerning the introduction and development of adult education.
(15.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  General Conference adopts this draft resolution.  Thank you very much. If there are no objections, I shall consider that the
(15.2) In the absence of objections, the resolution is adopted.
(15.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Paraarauhe 6
(16) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Mr President, Commission II recommends that the General Conference adopt the  resolution contained in paragraph 6 of document 24 C/li5 Annex-Recommendations, in  which an appeal is made to contribute to the implementation of the National Plan for  the Development of Adult Education in Honduras.
(17.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr Kubrycht. The draft resolution contained in para-  graph 6 of document 24 CI115 Annex-Recommendations is submitted to the Conference for  adopt ion.
(17.2) In the absence of objections, the resolution is adopted.
(17.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  ParaaraPhe 7
(18) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Mr President, Commission II recommends next that the General Conference adopt  the resolution concerning the preparation of analytical summaries of national reports  and a synoptic report on the implementation of the recommendation on the development  of adult education in Member States and concerning the preparation of a report by the  Committee on Conventions and Recommendations of the Executive Board on this material,  which is contained in paragraph 7 of document 24 CI115 Annex-Recommendations.  El PRESIDENTE:  Muchas gracias, señor Kubrycht.  No habiendo objeciones, la resolución queda aprobada.  Tiene la palabra el Presidente de la Comisión II.
(19.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr Kubrycht.
(19.2) In the absence of objections, the resolution is adopted.
(19.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Plans de travail relatifs aux prourames 11.1 à 11.6
(20) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Thank you, Mr President. As indicated in paragraph 8 of document 24 CI115  Annex-Recommendations, Commission II recommends that the General Conference take note  of the work plans for Prograrmes 11.1 to 11.6, together with such changes as may be  made by the Director-General as a result of the measures decided by the Commission.
(21.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  proposed by Commission II.
(21.2) In the absence of objections, they are adopted.
(21.3) The Chairman of Comission II has the floor.  Thank you, Mr Kubrycht. You have heard the presentation of the work plans  Résumés buduétaires uour les prourames 11.1 à 11.6
(22) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Mr President, as we are about to move on to,consider the budgetary provisions  for Major Programme II, I should like to make a general observation. Delegates will  remember that thk plenary is called upon, in accordance with established practice,  simply to take note of the individual budgets for the various programmes in document
24 C/5, whereas it adopts the overall budgetary provisions for the major programmes. I  should also like to point out, for the information of delegates, that the final  amounts for all the programmes and major programmes considered by the five programme  commissions and the Administrative Commission are determined at a joint meeting of  these six commissions. As this'meeting has not yet taken place, the present measure is  of a provisional nature m d  is based on the figures in document 24 CI5; subsequently,  when it receives the report on the joint meeting of the commissions, the plenary will  take a final decision on the budgetary provisions for all the major programmes. On the  understanding that the budgetary figures may be modified subsequently for the reasons  I have just mentioned, Commission II recommends unanimously, as indicated in para-  graph 9 of document 24 CI115 Annex-Recommendations, that the General Conference take  note of the budgetary provisions for Programmes 11.1 to 11.6 and for the Participation  Programme.
(23.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr Kubrycht. If there are no objections on the part of  delegates, I shall consider that the meeting agrees to take note of the budgetary pro-  visions for Major Programme II.
(23.2) The delegate of Bulgaria has the floor. 1
24. Mme TRIFONOVA (Bulgarie) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. A propos du texte qu'il est demandé  d'ajouter au paragraphe 76 du rapport relatif au grand programme II - et qui  figure à la première page du document 24 C/U5 Add. et Corr., Partie narra-  tive -, je voudrais m'assurer que lorsque, parmi, les organismes des Nations  Unies invités à participer à la preparation et a la mise en oeuvre du plan  d'action pour l'éducation de la première enfance, l'on mentionne le FISE, il  s'agit bien de l'Unicef. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
(25.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate for her remarks, which will be duly recorded. The Chair-  man of Commission II has of course made a note of the point. I believe the acronym  corresponds to the French title, which is where the confusion arose. It should be  possible to make the necessary corrections along the lines you have suggested.
(25.2) This qualification having been made, I repeat my question: may we take note  of the budgetary provisions for Programmes 11.1 to 11.61
(25.3) In the absence of objections, it is so decided.
(25.4) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Buduet pour l'ensemble du urand orouramme II
(26) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Mr President, in paragraph 10 of document 24 C/115 Annex-Recommendations,  Commission II recommends that the General Conference approve the allocation of  $25,952,900 under the regular programme, subject to the recommendations of the joint  meeting of the Administrative Commission and the programme commissions.
(27.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much. I submit this proposal then, and if there are no objec-  tions, I consider that the General Conference may approve the proposed budget, with  the proviso already mentioned.
(27.2) In the absence of objections, it is so decided.
(27.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Parauraphe 11
(28) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Mr President, Commission II recommends that the General Conference adopt in  respect of Major Programme IV, 'The formulation and application of education  policies', draft resolution 4.1 contained in paragraph 11 of document 24 C/115 Annex-  Recommendations.
(29.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I submit resolution 4.1 for the General Conference's consideration.
(29.2) In the absence of objections, resolution 4.1 is adopted.
(29.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Paraaraphe 12
(30) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Thank you very much, Mr President. Commission II recommends that the General  Conference adopt the resolution concerning the International Bureau of Education con-  tained in paragraph 12 of document 24 C/115 Annex-Recommendations, together with the  amendment to be found in the addendum and corrigendum.
(31.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  General Conference.  Thank you very much, Mr Kubrycht. The proposed resolution is submitted to the
(31.2) In the absence of objections, the resolution is adopted.
(31.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  ParaaraDhe 13
(32) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spani.sh) :  Thank you, Mr President. Commission II decided by consensus to recommend to  the General Conference that it adopt the resolution concerning the revision of the  Statutes of the International Bureau of Education, which is contained in paragraph 13  of document 24 C/115 Annex-Recommendations.
(33.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  General Conference.  Thank you very much, Mr Kubrycht. The proposed resolution is submitted to the
(33.2) In the absence of objections, the resolution is adopted.
(33.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Paraaraphe 14
(34) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Thank you, Mr President. Commission II recommends that the General Conference  adopt the resolution concerning the International Institute for Educational Planning  contained in paragraph 14 of document 24 C/115 Annex-Recommendations.
(35.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  the Conference.
(35.2) In the absence of objections, the resolution is adopted.
(35.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Thank you very much, Mr Kubrycht. I submit the recommendation for adoption by  ParasraPhe 15
(36) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Thank you, Mr President, Commission II recommends that the General Conference  adopt the resolution concerning the Unesco Institute for Education in Hamburg, which  is contained in paragraph 15 of document 24 CI115 Annex-Recommendations.
(37.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Conference.  Thank you very much, Mr Kubrycht. The resolution is submitted to the
(37.2) In the absence of objections, the resolution is adopted.
(37.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Parauraphe 16
(38) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Thank you, Mr President. Commission II recommends that the General Conference  adopt the resolution relating to Unesco's Plan of Action for the prevention of AIDS,  which is contained in paragraph 16 of document 24 CI115 Annex-Recommendations.
(39.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The resolution is submitted to the Conference.
(39.2) In the absence of objections, the resolution is adopted.
(39.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Paraaraphe 17
(40) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Thank you, Mr President. Commission II recommends that the General Conference  adopt the resolution relating to the development of the teaching of foreign languages  and literature, which is contained in paragraph 17 of document 24 CI115 Annex-  Recommendations.
(41.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  consideration.
(41.2) In the absence of objections, the resolution is adopted.,
(41.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Thank you very much, Mr Kubrycht. I submit the project for the Conference's  Paraaraphe 18
(42) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Thank you very much, Mr President. Commission II recommends that the General  Conference adopt the resolution relating to the application of informatics in edu-  cation, which is contained in paragraph 18 of document 24 CI115 Annex-Recommendations.
(43.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  the Conference.  Thank you very much, Mr Kubrycht. The resolution is submitted for adoption by
(43.2) In the absence of objections, the resolution is adopted.
(43.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Plans de travail pour les proarames IV.l à IV.4
(44) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Thank you, Mr President. As indicated in paragraph 19 of document 24 C/115  Annex-Recommendations, Commission II recommends that the General Conference take note  of the work plans for Programmes IV.l to IV.4, including such modifications as the  Director-General may make a8 a result of the decisions of the Commission.
(45.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  ence's consideration.
(45.2) In the absence of objections, the Conference takes note of the work plans.
(45.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Thank you very much, Mr Kubrycht. I submit the work plans for the Confer-  Résumés budqétaires pour les proqrammes IV.l à IV.4
(46) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Bearing in mind what I have already said about the provisional nature of the  decisions taken today in respect of budgetary provisions, Commission II recommends, as  indicated in paragraph 20 of document 24 C/115 Annex-Recommendations, that the General  Conference take note of the budgetary provisions for Programmes IV.l to IV.4 and,for  the Participation Programme, together with any changes that may be made subsequently  as a result of the decisions of the joint meeting.
(47.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  General Conference.  Thank you very much, Mr Kubrycht. I submit the budgetary provisions to the
(47.2) In the absence of objections, the Conference takes note of the budgetary  provisions.
(47.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Plans de travail Pour le Bureau international d'éducation.  e-0 pour l'éducation.
(48) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Thank you very much, Mr President. As stated in paragraph 21 of document
24 CI115 Annex-Recommendations, Commission II recommends that the General Conference  take note of the recapitulations of the work plans of the International Bureau of Edu-  cation, the International Institute for Educational Planning and the Unesco Institute  for Education, together with such changes as the Director-General may subsequently  make in consequence of the decisions of the Commission.
(49.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  lations of the work plans.
(49.2) In the absence of objections, the General Conference takes note of the  recapitulations of the work plans.
(49.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Thank you, Mr Kubrycht. I submit to the General Conferenco the recapitu-  Résumes budsétaires pour le Bureau international d'éducation  et l'Institut international de planification de l'éducation
(50) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Thank.you, Mr President. As stated in paragraph 22 of document 24 C/115  Annex-Recommendations, Commission II recommends that the General Conference take note  of the recapitulations of the budgetary provisions for the International Bureau of  Education and the International Institute for Educational Planning.
(51.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  budgetary provisions.
(51.2) In the absence of objections, it is so decided.
(51.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  If there are no objections, I consider that you agree to take note of these  Budset Dour l'ensemble du srand prosramme IV
(52) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  With regard to the overall budget for Major Programme IV, which is set out in  paragraph 23 of document 24 CI115 Annex-Recommendations, Commission II recommends that  the General Conference adopt the budgetary provisions, under the regular programme of  $28,492,300, subject to any proposals made in that regard by the joint meeting of the  Administrative Commission and the programme commissions.
(53.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much. If there are no objections, I consider that the General  Conference adopts these budgetary provisions, subject to the proviso already  mentioned.
(53.2) In the absence of objections, it is so decided.
(53.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Paraqraphe 24
(54) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Thank you, Mr President. Paragraph 24 of document 24 CI115 Annex-  Recommendations contains draft resolution 5.1 relating to Major Programme V, ‘Edu-  cation, training and society’. Commission II recommends that the General Conference  adopt this draft resolution.
(55.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  General Conference decides to adopt this draft resolution.
(55.2) In the absence of objections, the resolution is adopted.
(55.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Thank you very much. If there are no objections, I shall consider that the  Paraqraphe 25
(56) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Mr President, Commission II recommends that the General Conference adopt the  draft resolution concerning the extension of opportunities of access to education and  improving access to higher education, which is contained in paragraph 25 of document
24 CI115 Annex-Recommendations.
(57.1)  Conference.
(57.3)  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) :  Thank you very much, Mr Kubrycht. I submit the resolution to the General  In the absence of objections, the resolution is adopted.  The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Parasrauhe 26
(58) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Thank you very much, Mr President. Cómmission II recommends that the General  Conference adopt the resolution relating to the effective preparation of a convention  on technical and vocational education, which is contained in paragraph 26 of document
24 C/ 115 Annex-Recommendations.
(59.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Conference.
(59.2) In the absence of objections, the resolution is adopted.
(59.3)  Thank you very much, Mr Kubrycht. I submit the resolution to the General  The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  ParaaraDhe 27
(60) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Mr President, Commission II recommends that the General Conference adopt the  resolution concerning the Report by the Committee on Conventions and Recommendations  regarding the first consultation of Member States on the implementation of the Revised  Recommendation concerning Technical and Vocational Education and concerning the action  to be taken subsequently - a resolution to be found in paragraph 27 of document
24 C/115 Annex-Recommendations.
(61.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Conference.
(61.2) In the absence of objections, the resolution is adopted.  Thank you very much, Mr Kubrycht. The resolution is submitted to the General
(61.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the .floor.  Paractraphe 28
(62) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Thank you, Mr President. Commission II recommends that the General Confer-  ence adopt the resolution concerning the Organization's activities in the field of  technical and vocational education, which is contained in paragraph 28 of document
24 CI115 Annex-Recommendations.
(63.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Conference.
(63.2) In the absence of objections, the resolution is adopted.
(63.3) The Chairmari of Commission II has the floor.  Thank you very much, Mr Kubrycht. I submit the resolution to the General  Paraqraphe 29
(64) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Mr President, Commission II recommends that the General Conference adopt the  resolution concerning a study on the advisability of preparing an international  convention on the recognition of studies, diplomas and degrees in higher education,  which is contained in paragraph 29 of document 24 C/115 Annex-Recommendations.
(65.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Conference.  Thank you very much, Mr Kubrycht. I submit the resolution to the General
(65.2) In the absence of objections, the resolution is adopted.
(65.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.
941    Parauraphe 30
(66) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Thank you, Mr President. Commission II recómends that the General Conference  adopt the resolution relating to the development of higher education and its cultural  dimensions, which is contained in paragraph 30 of document 24 CI115 Annex-  Recommendations.
(67.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Conference.
(67.2) In the absence of objections, the resolution is adopted.
(67.3)  Thank you, Mr Kubrycht. I submit the recommendation to the General  The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Plans de travail relatifs aux urourammes v.2 à v.5
(68) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from t. 3  Spanish) :  Thank you, Mr President. As indicated in paragraph 31 of document 24 CI115  Annex-Recommendations, Commission II recommends that the Gerieral Conference take note  of the work plans for Programmes V.2 to V.5, including any modifications the Director-  General may make subsequently in consequence of the Commission's decisions.
(69.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  agree to take note of the work plans.
(69.2) In the absence of objections, it is, so decided.
(69.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Thank you very much. If there are no objections, I shall consider that you  Résumés buduétaires pour les urourammes V.2 à V.5
(70) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Thank you very much, Mr President. Bearing in mind the provisional character,  as pointed out earlier, of the decisions that we are taking today on budgetary  provisions, Commission II recommends, as stated in paragraph 32 of document 24 C/115  Annex-Recommendations, that the General Conference take note of the budgetary  provisions for Programmes V.2 to V.5 and for the Participation Programme, including  such changes as may derive from the decisions of the Commission.
(71.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  General Conference agrees to take note of the budgetary provisions.
(71.2) In the absence of objections, it is so decided.
(71.3) The Chairman of Commission II has the floor.  Thank you very much. If there are no objections, I shall consider that the  Budset Pour l'ensemble du urand proqramme V
(72) Mr KUBRYCHT (Czechoslovakia), Chairman of Commission II (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Thank you very much, Mr President. With regard to the overall budget for  Major Programme V, which is contained in paragraph 33 of document 24 CI115 Annex-  Recommendations, Commission II recommends that the General Conference approve budget-  ary provisions, under the regular programme, of $13,302,900, subject to the recommen-  dations of the joint meeting of the Administrative Commission and the programme  commissions.
(73.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  posed budget, subject to the condition mentioned.
(73.2) In the absence of objections, the budget is adopted.  Thank you very much, Mr Kubrycht. I submit to the General Conference the pro-
(73.3) We have thus completed consideration of the report of Commission II and of  the recommendations it contains. It remains for me only to express my very special  thanks, on behalf of all delegates, to Mr Kubrycht, the Chairman of Commission II, for  his outstanding efforts, and to the Rapporteur, Mr Macintyre. I thank all delegates  for their co-operation.
(73.4) The meeting stands adjourned.  La séance ,est levée 6 20 h.05  The meeting rose at 8.05 p.m.  Se levanta la sesión a las 20.05