Septième séance plénière
23 octobre 1987, à 10 h 15  Président : M. DALENCOUR (Haïti)  puis : M. PUTZEYS ALVAREZ (Guatemala)  Seventh plenary meeting
23 OKTX6pñ 1987 ï. B 10.15  QencenaTenb: r-H AAJiEHKYP (TawrIr)
1.1 Le PRESIDENT :  Mesdames, Messieurs, je déclare ouverte la septième séance plénière de  la Conférence générale. Le Président en exercice étant retenu en raison de la  prolongation des travaux du Bureau, j'ai l'honneur de le remplacer ce matin ;  sans plus attendre, si vous le voulez bien, nous allons poursuivre le débat de  politique générale.,
1.2 Je vais immédiatement donner la parole à M. Myung Won Suhr, ministre de  l'éducation et chef de la délégation de la République de Corée.
2.1 Mr SUHR (Republic of Korea):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlenieri, on behalf of the delecjation of the Republic of Korea, I would like to  extend my heartfelt congratulations through you, Mr President, to Mr Putzeys  Alvarez on his election to the presidency ot this important assembly. My con-  gratulations also go to the other members of the Bureau, all of whom are  entrusted with important duties. I am confident that your leadership and  experience will guide this session to a successful conclusion.
2.2 I shouid also like to take this opportunity to express my special  tribute to Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, Director-General of Unesco, and his staff  members for their tireless work in preparing arid providing administrative  support for this session.
2.3 Mr President, this session deserves special attention by the world  community for several reasons. Above all, in view of its cherished principle of  universality, Unesco is facing a considerable setback, marked by the recent  withdrawal of three Member States, including two founding members. In the area  of Unesco activities, we are also at a watershed at the end of the second  Medium-Term Plan while preparing the third one. In addition, this session is  entrusted with such an important mission as the appointment of the next  Director-General, whose importance needs no further comment at this point. At  this crucial - indeed historic - stage, I wish to appeal to all Member States to  strive for further genuine dialogue and mutual understanding, cornerstones of  the Unesco philosophy. Assuredly, only through such efforts can we endow Unesco  with a broader and more substantive foundation as a universal instrument for  multilateral co-operation.
2.4 In reviewing the Draft Programme and Budget for 1988-1989, I am pleased  to note that, in spite of the considerable curtailment of the budget, positive  developments have been made in both its substance and its presentation. Hoping  that further reformative action will be taken in this direction, I should like  to make some general suggestions on this important matter.
2.5 The first concerns programme concentration. Appreciative of the efforts  made by the Unesco Secretariat in reducing the number of subprogrammes from 150  in 23 Cl5 to the current 143, I should like to suggest that the Secretariat  regularly and systematically monitor programming during the period of execution  with a view to avoiding duplication of effort with other international organ-  izations as well as to continuing integration of similar and related programmes  with emphasis on interdisciplinary and intersectoral approaches within Unesco.
2.6 Second, we strongly support the inclusion of options and possible  activities in 24 C/5, recoynizing that this will provide us with greater  flexibility in selecting programmes. I am of the view that such choices should  be made available at future sessions as well. However,' when we take Unesco's  current budgetary constraints into account, efforts to maximise options while  minimizing the number of possible activities with additional budgetary impli-  cation are recommended.
2.7 Third, and with regard to the decentralization policy, I note with  satisfaction that increased attention has been given to the qualitative aspects  of decentralization. To ensure the continuation ot effective decentralization,  further modernization of communication linking Unesco Headquarters and Regional  Offices should be sought to the extent resources permit. At the same time,  special consideration should be given to the Social Sciences and Culture Sectors  where the rate of decentralization has been relatively low.
2.8 Finally, concerning the organization of meetings and training courses ,  I strongly support the policy of reducing those organized directly by Unesco in  favour of increasing contracts with National Commissions and related non-  governmental organizations. This will serve both to reduce expenses and to  encourage further decentralization. In applying this policy, however, careful  selection of contractors in close co-operation with Unesco is essential to  ensure that quality will not be sacrificed.
2.9 Mr President, I should like to take this opportunity to touch upon the  crucial matter of the third Medium-Term Plan covering the period 1990-1995.
2.10 First, we are of the opinion that the third Medium-Term Plan should be  based on the Constitution of Unesco taking into consideration Unesco's past  achievements. Considering that the second Medium-Term Plan was based on the  analysis of world problems, it is desirable that we review and evaluate its  content and structure with special attention to updating it and assessing its  relevance.
2.11 Second, we should not overlook the fact that Unesco is active in almost  all the areas of intellectual activity and, in this very respect, it is distinct  from other functional agencies within the United Nations system. To carry out  this unique role efficiently and effectively, proper methodology, includirig  interdisciplinary and holistic approaches as well as intersectoral co-operation,  should be further pursued and translated into reality.
2.12 Third, I should like to add that, in the spectrum of Unesco activities,  greater interest and support need to be directed towards the less privileged  groups, wherever and whoever they are: developing countries, women, the under-  educated, the uneducated, the handicapped, minorities and all those who are  suffering from discrimination.
2.13 I now wish to make brief observations on major programmes of Unesco,  based upon the suggestions I have made thus far.
2.14 Major Programme I on the study of world problems warrants support in  that it not only illuminates the direction which future Unesco activities should  take but also provides salient information required to prepare the third  Medium-Term Plan. I suggest that, along with the promotion of research per se,  more attention be placed on activities effectively sensitizing world public  opinion. I therefore request that the Unesco Secretariat take prompt and  effective action to see that the results of research are disseminated to all  Member States in a timely fashion to allow them to utilize such information  appropriately, particularly for the preparation of the third Medium-Term Plan.
2.15 Education must be one of the essential tasks of Unesco in order to  achieve its fundamental goal of world peace and the common welfare of mankind.  In this context, Major Programme II on 'Education for all' should be given the  highest priority, and Unesco should spare no effort to achieve the eradication  of illiteracy by the year 2000. Particularly, I wish to reaffirm my Government's  support for the Asia-Pacific Programme of Education for All (APPEAL) which was  launched earlier this year. In developing this programme, further special  consideration needs to be given to the less privileged groups I mentioned  previously.
2.16 As for the Asia and Pacific Programme of Educational Innovation for  Development (APEID) , I appreciate the contribution the Programme has made to the  development of education in this region. And I believe it deserves continued  support. In this regard, I am pleased to inform you that it is the intention of  the government of the Republic of Korea to participate more actively in and  financially support this programme.
2.17 It is clear to all that natural resources and the environment are the  common heritage of all mankind and that their rational management is the sacred  duty of our generation for the very survival of future generations. In this  respect, Major Programme X should be further strengthened. I should like to  commend the Unesco Secretariat and associated agencies for their successful  implementation of related intergovernmental programmes of Unesco such as the  International Hydrological Programme, the International Geological Correlation  Programme, the Programme on Man arid Biosphere and the Intergovernmental  Oceanographic Commission. I also wish to take this opportunity to reiterate the  strong commitment of my Government to more active participation in these  activities.
2.18 With regard to Major Programme VI, may I draw your attention to the  network activities in which the Uiiesco Regional Office for Science and  Technology for South-East Asia (ROSTSEA) has taken the lead in developing basic  science and engineering in the region. Appreciative of the highly successful
21 9    implementation of these activities, I should like to urge that the, element of  TCDC (Technical Co-operation among Developing Countries) be further strengthened  in their future courses. Particularly in the fields of natural product chemistry  and microbiology, the need for further support from Unesco is acute when we take  into consideration the fact t,hat the Asia-Pacif ic region has abundant research  materials aiid traditional knowledge.
2.19 The Republic of Korea, a developing country with some experience in  economic and technological development, would be pleased to expand its role in  South-South co-operation. Our commitment to this is long-standing. During the  past two decades, a total of 5,780 technical trainees from 90 developing  countries have been invited to Korea and more than 200 experts dispatched  abroad.
2.20 Especially in developing countries, the role of information and  communication technology cannot be over-emphasized. When we take note of the  reality that developing countries hardly benefit from the rapid technological  advances made in this field, Unesco activities to cultivate the capacity of  developing countries in this area should be given full support by developing  Countries.
2.21 In this perspective, I wish to stress the importance of the Inter-  national Programme for the Development of Corniunication, within the framework of  which the Government of the Republic of Korea has invited 120 trainees from  developing countries for the past five years. I am pleased to convey my  Government's intention to continue such efforts on a long-term basis.
2.22 In the midst of rapidly changing societies, Major Programme XI on  'Culture and the future' deserves strong support as it deals with a key area  contributing to increased public awareness of the impixtance and value of  diverse cultures among the various societies. It is recommended that Unesco  prepare a master plan of action for the successful implementation of the 'World  DecUdt! for Cultural Deveiopnient' as proclaimed by the United Nations for the  period 198&-1997. I should like to request that Unesco's contribution be planned  and executed in a highly integrated, interdisciplinary and intersectoral manner,  carefully focusing on the four main objectives of the Decade.
2.23 In this connection, I am pleased to inform you that last March the  'International Meeting of Directors of Centres and Institutes Engaged in  Research on Interaction between Culture, Science, Economics and Society' was  held in Seoul in collaboration with Unesco. Noting that the main theme of the  meeting was the identification of joint research projects within the World  Decade for Cultural Development, I hope that the results of the meeting will be  of value to Unesco in the promotion of this most special äecade.
2.24 Before closing, Mr President, it is with great pleasure and honour that  I remind you that the 24th Olympiad will be held in Seoul in September next  year, under the banner of 'Harmony and Progress for All the Peoples of the  World'. As Chairman of the Korean National Commission for Unesco, I am confident  that the forthcdhing Seoul Olympics will be a grand international cultural  festival of peace and prosperity, bringing together the whole global family -  East and West, developing and developed.
2.25 The people and the Government of the Republic of Korea will spare no  effort to make these Olympic Games the most successful in the history of the  Olympiad. Looking forward to welcoming all of you next September, I thank you  very much for your kind attention.
3. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la République de Corée et je  donne la parole 5 S. Exc. M. Gueorgui Yordanov, ministre de la culture, de la  science et de l'éducation et chef de délégation de la République populaire de  Bulgarie.
4.2 ilpomo nsa rona CO BpeMeHn CO@M~~CKO~~ ceccm reaepanmoh KoH@epeHqm. CBOHM  npenCenaTeJI5l DBanuaTb YeTBepTOfi CeCCMM, XeJIaIo yCiíeirrH0 CíipaBMTbCñ CO CBOMMM OTBeTCTBeHHbIMM  npOBeneHMe CeCCMH M 6 y n y ~  CnOCO6CTBOBâTb naJIbHefiirreMy pa3BMTMK) HaLUe~ OpïaHM3a~MM.  KOHCTPYKTMBHbIM nyXOM M iIOJiOìKMTWibHbIMM pe3y~bTâTâMM OHâ yKpenMJiâ Bepy B XM3HeHHOCTb K)HECKO, B  Hamy PeiüHMOCTb COXPâHMTb ee HeCMOTPX Ha BCe TPYUHOCTM.
4.14 Heo6xon~~o TûKXe 6onee PeuiMTeJIbHO iIOnnepXMBâTb MCCJIenOBâHMR, CBH3aHHbIe C 60pb60fl  npomn p a c m ~ a  M anapTewna, U I O B M H M ~ M ~  M ~ a q ~ o ~ a n ~ s ~ a .
4.15 nOBblLUeHMe KaZIeCTBû 06pa30~a~1.1~, BBeAeHMe MHCPOPMaTMKM B 06y.reH~e, PaBHOnpaBMe XOCTyiiâ  JIIOnefi K CBeTy 3HaHMR - 3T0 M eCTb Te HOBble MOMeHTbI, KOTOPbIe OnpeneJIRKlT QCHHOCTb Ilpe~nOXeHHbIX  HYK) npOrpaMMy, VeJibK) KOTOPOfl RBJiReTCII JlMKBMAi14MR HeTPâMOTHOCTM B MMpe. Mbi 6 y n e ~  aKTMBHO  CnOCO6CTBOBûTb ee npeTBOpeHMIo B XM3Hb.  nporpaMM B O ~ J I ~ C T M  06pa30BaHMR. M  TO noxBanbHo. EonrapcKaR neneraqwa ropmo nonnepxmaeT KPYII-
4.16 nPMRTHO OTMeTMTb, YTO MHMqMûTMBâ EOJIïâpMM «neTM B BeK MH@OPMaTMKM» IIOJIb3yeTCñ non-  nepXKOfi MHOrMX CTpâH. BTopaR MeXnyHapOLlHâR KOH@epeHqMR M 60nbrua~ BbICTâBKa Ha 3TY TeMy, iipOXOnMB-  UIMe B COQMM B Mae HbIHelIIHeïO rolla, BbI3BaJíM OXMBJIeHHbIfi MHTepeC M IUMpOKMfi MeXnYHaPOflHbIfi peso-  HaHC.
4.17 OXpaHRTb KyJIbTypHOe HaCJIenMe YeJIOBe’IeCTBa - 3HaYMT 3aWMqaTb M pa3BMBaTb HâqMOHanbHyIO  CaMO6bITHOCTb HaPonoB. npOBO3ïJIalIIeHHOe OOH HeCRTMJIeTMe KYJIbTYPHOïO pa3BMTMñ OTKpbIBaeT IIepeR  pMM COBnaJJâIOT C 6JIâîOpOnHbIM CTpeMJIeHMeM HapOnOB K J’TBepXneHMIO HaqMOHanbHbIX KYJIbTYP M BMeCTe C  TeM C IIOTpe6HOCTbIo K 6onee TeCHOMY LIYXOBHOMY 064eHMIo.
4.18  IIOKOJleHMR, O IIOCTORHHOM IIOBbIUleHMM KYJIbTYPHOrO YpOBHX RIonefi.  rocynapcTsaMM-sneHaMM HoBbIe I-OPM~OHT~I g n ~  none~~oro manora. Yc~n~ri HaponHoii P e c n y 6 n ~ ~ ~  Eonra-  Mory BaC 3aBepMTb, 9TO Hama CTpaHa HeyCTaHHO 3â60TMTCR O ïäPMOHMYHOM pâ3BMTMM MOnOnOrO
4.19 BepH, YTO c’Ton6 none3~0e CoTpynHMqecTBo c IOHECKO B nene n o n y n ~ p ~ 3 a q ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ B M T M R   M B 6 y n y q e ~ .  MbI ysepetibi, YTO n p e n c ~ o n ~ a ~  qeTsepTa2 MexnyHaponHax neTcKaz acca~ónerr « ~ H ~ M R  Mpa»,  MeXnyHapOnHOïO ReTCKOïO RBMXeHMR IIOn ReBM30M «enMHCTBO, TBOPYeCTBO, KPaCOTa” 6yneT IIpOnOnXaTbCR  cO@Mri 88, CHOBa RBMTCX BOnHYIOiL(MM CO6bITMeM RJIR neTeh MHOîMX CTpaH MMpa. Hama neneïaqMR y6eXneHa B  qeneC006pa3HOCTM IIPMHRTMR KOMIIneKCHOfi IIpOrpaMMbl neRTeJIbHOCTM, IIOCBRI4eHHOfi AeTRM ~OirrKOJIbHOrO  BO3pâCTa. I‘IPOBOnMMaR non 3rkinoh H)HECKO M npM BKTMBHOM Y9aCTMM K)HMCE@, BCeMMPHOfi OpïaHM3a-  UMM ~OUIKOJIbHOrO BOCIIMTaHMR (BOAB) M PRnâ npyïMX HeIIpaBMTeJIbCTBeHHbIX OpïaHM3aqMfi, OHa cnoco6-  CTBOBaJIa 6b1 PaCIIIMpeHMIo BHMMaHMR K IIOnpaCTaIoqeMy IIOKOJIeHHIO.
4.20 AOJlTOM Hamefi OpïaHM3aUMM B HâCTORWMfi MOMeHT RBnXeTCR TaKXe YCTaHOBneHMe 6onee CIIpa-  BenJIMBOïO MH@OpMâqMOHHOïO IIOPRRKa, IIOMCK 6onee 3@@eKTMBHbIX @OPM KYnbTYPHOfO COTpyJJHM’IeCTBa.
3T0 OTHOCMTCR M K M3nâTeJIbCKOfi neRTWIbHOCTM. O’IeBMnHO, 6IonXeTHbIe OrpaHM’IeHMR He nOJIXHb1 KaCaTbCR  pacnpenenMTb no IipOrpaMMaM M CeKTOpaM. Benb CKa3aHHbIe CJIOBa 3a6bIBaIoTCR.OCTaeTCR HaIIMCâHHOe,  COTBOpeHHOe. OCTaeTCR neJI0.  BaxHbIx ny6nMKaqMfi IOHECKO, a mewqirecrr cpencma cnenyeT, Ha Ham ssrnm, 6onee paBHoMepHo
4.21 IlporpaMMa M 6IonXeT Ha 1988-1989 rr., K O T O P ~  npMMeT Hama ceccm, xBnReTc2 nocnenaefi,  sasepmam~qefi @a3oM moporo CpenHecpoworo nnaaa. HaneIocb B ~ I P ~ ~ M T ~  o64ee MHeHMe c ~ a 3 a ~ ,  ’ITO  TOT  h â H ,  COCTaBJIeHHbIfi rOCynapCTBaMM-YneHaMM - OAHO M3 CâMbIX 3Hâ’IMMbIX nOCTkiXeHMfi IOHECKO. Bpan JIM  YMeCTHO CefiYâC, B XOne IIOnrOTOBKM TpeTberO CpenHeCpOYHOîO IIJlâHa, OTKa3bIBaTbCR OT er0 OCHOBHbIX  IIpMHqMnOB M YnaY. MMeHHO II03TOMY, Ha B3rJIRn Hamefi !JeJIeîaqMM, K pa6OTe II0 nOnïOTOBKe TpeTberO  CpeflHeCpOYHOîO IIJIûHû CJIenOBaflO 6b1 OTHeCTMCb C OCO6blM BHMMâHMeM.
4.24 kf BMeCTe C TeM, MbI BCe RCHee OC03HaeM, ’IT0 3TOT MHOïOJIMKMfi, CJIOXHbIfi U l’IpOTMBOpeWïBbIÜ  MMP eRMH. AJIbTepHâTMBOfi RJIR enMHCTBa RBJIReTCR YHM’ITOXeHMe YeJIOBe’IeCTBa M er0 BeKOBOfi qMBUSIM3aqMU.  TaKyIo MbICJIb BbICKa3an npenCenâTeJIb rOCynaPCTBeHHOr0 COBeTâ HaponHofi PeCIIy6nHKM EOJIrapMM Tonop  XMBKOB Ha BCTpe’Ie C 06IqeCTBeHHbIMM fleRTeJIRMM MHOïMX CTpaH. Jh60 MbI 6 y n e ~  XMTb BMeCTe, nu60 BMeCTe  I I O ~ M ~ H ~ M  - TpeTberO nyTM HeT!
4.25 KaK XOpOiilO, YTO BCe 6onbme ï0CynapCTBeHHbIX M IIOJIMTMYeCKMX neXTWIefi BocToKa M 3anana,  CTapT BCe06qeMy pa30pyXeHMIo. B03MOXHOCTb 3âKJIIoYeHMR CCCP M CMA COrnaIIIeHMR O JIMKBM~aqMM  HeKOTOPbIX BMROB pâKeTHO-ñRepHOïO OPYXMR BCenReT B HaC Haneìiíny. Bce 6onee PeaJIbHOfi CTaHOBMTCfi
06peYeH Ha ïM6eJIb, CCJIM He IIOfiMeT, YTO XMTb MOXHO TOJlbKO IIpM B3âMMOnOHMMaHMM M B3aMMHOM nOBepMH,  TaK M HaNa OpïûHM3âqMR, IIpOIlIenLLIaR nOJIrMfi, YBeH’IâHHbIfi 3aBOeBaHMRMM €4 HaKOIIJIeHHbIM OIIbITOM IIyTb,  He CMOXeT CyqeCTBOBûTb, eCnM OHa He BblABMHeT CBOMM BbICUIMM IIpMHqMnOM enMHCTB0.
4.27  rOCIIOnMH npenCenaTeJIb; WMbI M rOCIïOJJa, MbI XMBeM non He60M, HaCbIIiJeHHbIM RnepHbIMW €4  BCe e4e 4apR.r îOJIOn, OIIYCTOIIIMTeJIbHbIe 3IIMJJeMMM,  Cesepa M IOra C O ~ H ~ H T  3 ~ y  POKOBYH MCTMHY. BIIepBbIe y YenoBeqecTBa nommnacb Hanexna, ’ITO 6 y n e ~  naH  ERMHCTBO BO MMR MMPHOTO TPYna M IIpOrpeCCâ, BO MMR COBMeCTHbIX AefiCTBMfi IIPOTMB HMqeTbI,  ERMHCTBO, BnOXHOBJIeHHOe rYdaHHbIMM qeJIRMM M MJleâJIaMM IOHECKO - Hamefi He3aMeHMMOfi  O p r a ~ ~ 3 a q ~ ~ .  Cnac~6o 3a BHMMaHMe.
(4.1) Mr YORDANOV (People’s Republic of Bulgaria) (Translation from the Russian):  Kistinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. I should like to congratulate  most sincerely the distinguished President of the twenty-fourth session of the General  Conference and wish him success in carrying out his extremely important responsi-  bilities. I am convinced that his able guidance, together with the assistance of all
222    the delegations, will ensure that the session is conducted successfully and promote  the future development of our Organization.
(4.2) Two years have passed since the General Conference was held in Sofia. With  its constructive spirit and its encouraging results it strengthened our belief in the  vitality of Unesco and in our own resolve to preserve it in spite of all difficulties.
(4.3) Today we have assembled once again in order to take stock of what has been  achieved, to share ideas and concerns and to outline the tasks and general directions  for our future action. Indeed, that is the purpose of the twenty-fourth session, which  is meeting at the Headquarters of the Organization in Paris - an ever-vital forum of  fruitful intellectual contacts between people.
(4.4) The past biennium saw the memorable fortieth anniversary of Unesco, which,  having been founded after the tragic events of the most devastating war in history,  was called upon to respond to the aspirations of peoples to live and work in  conditions of peace, creativity and progress.
(4.5) Our Organization has encountered contrary winds and submerged rocks in its  course. We fully recognize that many of the unresolved problems, socio-political  conflicts and ideological differences of today's world are woven into the fabric of  its activities. Unfortunately, there exist - and there will very likely continue to  exist in the future - some circles that either underrate the importance of Unesco or  ignore it completely. During the decades of its existence, however, the Organization  has fully demonstrated the importance of its role, its mission and its power. By  engaging in international cultural co-operation Unesco has built up a store of  valuable knowledge and experience, which help us to overcome both permanent and  temporary difficulties, since experience, in Goethe's words, is 'the best magic wand'.  The determination of Member States to preserve the noble humanitarian aims and  principles of the Organization bears this out.
(4.6) I am authorized to state that the People's Republic of Bulgaria will uphold  the democratic and universal character of Unesco and continue to give its support so  that the importance of this lofty and authoritative intellectual forum may grow ever  greater.
(4.7) Looking back over the path we have already travelled, we experience a feeling  of profound gratitude towards Unesco on account of the benefits it has brought to  mankind. The contribution of those eminent figures who created it is clearly apparent.  One of them, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'BOW, worked competently and untiringly for many years,  with a sense of his own important responsibilities. At a difficult time for the  Organization he acted from the utmost sense of duty. An advocate of honour, the  Director-General is handing over the management of Unesco with dignity, leaving behind  a deep trace in our memories and a fine legacy. It is our hope that he will continue  in the same fitting way to follow his convictions and serve the cause of collaboration  and progress in the world.
(4.8) Mr President, the purposes and functions laid down in Unesco's Constitution  require that the reality of contemporary international life be reflected in the draft  programme and budget for the forthcoming biennium.
(4.9) The task of protecting the natural environment is now becoming increasingly  urgent. Continual damage to the ecological balance may have irreversible consequences  for the lives of present and future generations. I should like to remind you at this  point of the proposal made by my country that an international conference on the  protection of the environment be held in Bulgaria.
(4.10) Greater participation in Unesco's work by outstanding people in the fields of  culture, science, education and communication is becoming increasingly important and  represents yet another sure way of accomplishing productive joint efforts.
(4.11) We are convinced that Major Programme I will assist the Organization to make  a greater contribution to the task of solving the most acute difficulties and problems  facing the whole of humankind. We are pleased to note that measures to give effective  help to the developing countries are planned.
(4.12) It is obvious that further scientific research on subjects of fundamental  importance must, with the help of Unesco's particular resources in this field,  stimulate the international community's efforts, to expand effective intellectual  co-operation in order to promote security and al1 round progress. Protection of the  biosphere, development of sources of energy, superconductivity, biotechnology,  rational utilization of raw materials, exploitation of the world's oceans and joint  activities directed towards the use of space for peaceful purposes and towards the  establishment of a new economic order are just some of the tasks indissolubly linked  with the development and interests of the inhabitants of the whole planet. It is  precisely for this reason that they must be kept constantly in view by the  Organization.
(4.13) It is a matter for regret that the social sciences continue to be  undervalued, in spite of widespread recognition of their role in scientific knowledge.  We feel sure that in the biennial programme we are about to discuss and approve a  proper place will be assigned to research in this important field of knowledge.
(4.14)  the struggle against racism and apartheid, chauvinism and nationalism.
(4.15) Raising educational standards, the introduction of computer science into  education, and equal access to knowledge: these are the new aspects that will  determine the value of the proposed programmes in the field of education. And this is  as it should be. The Bulgarian delegation fervently supports the major programme  intended to eradicate illiteracy in the world. We shall actively support its  implementation.
(4.16) We are pleased to note that the Bulgarian initiative 'Children in the age of  the computer' is supported by many countries. The second international conference and  the large exhibition on this subject, held in Sofia in May this year, gave rise to  lively interest and attracted widespread international attention.
(4.17) The preservation of the cultural heritage of humankind involves the  protection and development of the national identity of peoples. The World Decade for  Cultural Development proclaimed by the United Nations opens up new horizons to Member  States for constructive dialogue. The efforts of the People's Republic of Bulgaria  coincide with the noble aspiration of peoples to affirm their national cultures and  also with the need for closer intellectual contacts.
(4.18) I can assure you that my country gives constant attention to the harmonious  development of the younger generation and to the need to keep raising the cultural  level of the people.
(4.19) I feel sure that the extremely effective co-operation with Unesco to  popularize and develop the international children's movement under the motto 'Unity,  creativity and beauty' will continue in the future. We are certain that the  forthcoming fourth 'Banner of Peace' international children's assembly in Sofia in
1988 will again prove to be an exciting event for children from all over the world.  Our delegation is convinced of the advisability of adopting a many-sided programme of  activities for children of pre-school age, which, carried out under the auspices of  Unesco and with the active, participation of UNICEF, the World Organization for Early  Childhood Education (OPEP) and a number of other non-governmental organizations, would  help to foster wider interest in the rising generation.
(4.20) A further task of our Organization at the present time is to establish a more  equitable information order and seek more effective forms of cultural co-operation,  including publishing.. Obviously, the budgetary constraints must not be applied to  Unesco's important publications, and available funds ought, in our opinion, to be more  evenly distributed among the programmes and sectors. After all, what is spoken is  forgotten, but what is written down, created, done, remains.
(4.21) The Programme and Budget for 1988-1989, which is to be adopted at this  session, is the final stage of the second Medium-Term Plan. I hope that I am  expressing the general opinion when I say that this plan, drawn up by the Member  States, is one of Unesco's most significant achievements. It would hardly be  appropriate now, as work is starting on the preparation of the third Medium-Term Plan,  to abandon its fundamental principles and successes. It is precisely for this reason  that, in the opinion of our delegation, the task of preparing the third Medium-Term  Plan should be approached with particular care.
(4.22) The recent financial difficulties, of which everyone is aware, make it  necessary for the General Conference to seek new and effective measures if they are to  be overcome. In our opinion, it would be advisable to find a budgetary mechanism that  would not be subject to the unstable conditions of the Western financial system.
(4.23) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we live in a world full of nuclear and  ecological dangers. We live in a world where hunger, devastating epidemics, horrifying  poverty and destitution still prevail in many countries.  It is also necessary to give more positive support to research connected with
(4.24) At the same time, we are becoming more clearly aware that this many-faceted,  complex and contradictory world is one. The alternative to unity is the annihilation  of humankind and of human civilization stretching back over many centuries. This  thought was expressed by the President of the Council of State of the People's  Republic of Bulgaria, Todor Zhivkov, at a meeting with public figures from many  countries. Either we shall live together or we shall perish together - there is no  other possibility!
(4.25) It is good to see that an increasing number of governmental and public  figures from East and West, North and South are aware of this fateful truth. For the  first time humankind may hope that a start will be made towards general disarmament.  The possibility that the USSR and the U.S.A. will conclude an agreement for the  elimination of certain classes of nuclear missiles gives us hope. The universal  objective of mankind of entering the twenty-first century without the spectre of mass  annihilation looks increasingly as if it may become a reality. Equally, the world will  be doomed to destruction if it will not understand that it is possible to live only in  mutual understanding and mutual trust. Likewise, our Organization, with its long past  crowned with achievements and accumulated successes, will cease to exist if it does  not promote unity as its supreme principle.
(4.26) Unity in the service of peaceful work and progress, in the service of joint  action against poverty, illiteracy, social inequality, national and racial  discrimination and aggression.
(4.27) Unity, inspired by the humanitarian objectives and ideals of Unesco - our  unique Organization. Thank you for your attention.
5. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Bulgarie et j ‘invite main-  tenant Mme Victoria Garrón de Doryan, vice-présidente de la République du Costa  Rica et chef de la délégation de ce pays, à prendre la parole.
(6.1) Mrs GARRON DE DORYAN (Costa Rica) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,  Director-General, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the election of  Mr Guillermo Putzeys Alvarez, of Guatemala, as President of this Conference. I am also  very pleased that a new member, Aruba, has taken its place in the great Unesco family.  My sincere thanks go out to Mr Todorov for his outstanding work as President of the  twenty-third session of the General Conference, and to Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'BOW for his  dedication to Unesco.
(6.2) In recent years, Costa Ricans have been the almost daily witnesses of the  drama of violence in Central America. Throughout this period, thousands and thousands  of Central Americans have flocked towards our territory, fleeing this- violence and  attempting to save their lives. These bands of brothers and sisters from this  beautiful isthmus of ours, so full of promise, today make up some 10 per cent of the  population of our country.
(6.3) The destructive imprint of the war has left an indelible mark on Central  American family life. There can be no doubt that its effects will continue to be felt,  in all spheres of life, long after a cease-fire, which we hope will take place very  soon. We Costa Ricans are reluctant to accept this phenomenon as a way of life,  because we are used to living in peace, under a democracy. Perhaps the fact that we  established the rule of law immediately after independence, that we clearly laid down  almost 120 years ago that education is the corner-stone of human development, that  over a century ago we abolished the death penalty and proclaimed the sanctity of life  as the basic principle of respect for human beings, that we did away with the army as  a permanent institution in 1948, and that we allocated substantial resources to health  care for our entire population, has helped to form a people that enjoys social peace  and at all times turns to dialogue and negotiation as a means of settling disputes.
(6.4) It is our hope that man can be regenerated by education. The times call for a  change of heart and we can bring this change about through education. We must forge a  new human being, one who enjoys inner peace and is willing to live with others; who is  prepared to seek fulfilment in genuine freedom and is firmly resolved to blaze a new  trail; who has faith in himself and in humanity; who is ready to bring back peace to  the world through concord, self-sacrifice and tolerance; who is convinced that  everything is to be gained by love and nothing by hatred.
(6.5) I cannot but rejoice at the recognition shown to Dr Oscar Arias Sánchez by  the award of the Nobel Peace Prize. We believe that this distinction was fully  merited; he himself has regarded it as an encouragement for continuing the struggle to  consolidate peace in the region and to contribute to the triumph of reason over war in  other latitudes. As he himself stated before the General Assembly of the United  Nations at its 42nd session: 'We should like to see the beginning of a dialogue  designed to solve the problem of sovereignty in the Falkland Islands. We should like  to see the door opened, by means of dialogue, to reconciliation of the two Koreas. We  should like dialogue to ensure the prompt and unconditional independence of Namibia.  We should like to have dialogue serve as the instrument for securing the prompt  liberation of Kampuchea and Afghanistan. We applaud the intensification of talks  between the two Germanies and we support with renewed faith the efforts of the United  Nations to secure peace in the Middle East'.
(6.6) The President of Costa Rica went on to say: 'I reaffirm here my country's  stand in favour of creating special financial arrangements to combat hunger in Africa,  to mitigate the suffering of exiles, to expedite the consolidation of emerging  democracies, and to promote peace efforts through the world. Costa Rica places high  hopes in disarmament negotiations between the Super Powers. We encourage the reduction  of arms in every corner of the planet'.
(6.7) Our position on the conditions for the establishment of peace in Central  America was clearly laid down in the Peace Proposal submitted by Dr Oscar Arias  Sánchez and signed by. the Central American leaders on 7 August 1987. It set forth a  number of essential conditions for peaceful coexistence among our peoples - conditions  that are an everyday reality for Costa Ricans.
(6.8) I am deeply grateful for the welcome given to this Peace Plan by the  Director-General and the Executive Board of Unesco. If it is to be fully implemented,  it will require the support of Unesco .and all other bodies concerned with the  well-being of mankind.
(6.9) Our educational and peace-loving values are fully consonant with the  preservation of our natural resources and the protection of the environment. They are  part and parcel of our respect for life. Nevertheless, we are concerned by the fact  that imbalances in the development model that we have been following up to now are at  the same time bringing about the rapid destruction of our natural resources in areas  that are not protected. This concern is shared by a large number of public and private  bodies, which are making considerable efforts and contributions to ensure that the  damaging effects of this model on our natural environment are not only halted but  reversed.
(6.10) Since the mid-nineteenth century, the linking of education with science and  technology for the benefit of economic development has been a concern of our  governments. We are now well aware of the fact, so lucidly expressed by Mr Antonio  Pasquali, Unesco's Regional Co-ordinator for Latin America and the Caribbean, that  societies which relax their educational efforts end up being educated by others; if  they cease to produce science and technology, they will become the passive consumers  of knowledge from abroad; if they neglect their own culture, they will inevitably  undergo transculturation; and if they fail to generate information of their own, they  will become the voiceless recipients of the information of others.
(6.11) Full awareness of the problem notwithstanding, it is a difficult task to take  up the scientific and technological challenge successfully, for it calls for  far-reaching changes in the behaviour of our peoples, which takes time and
228    necessitates a clearly defined strategy. In the administration which I represent, we  have made a considerable effort in this direction. A special ministry has been set up  to deal with scientific and technological affairs and we are struggling to establish a  firm basis for indigenous scientific and technological development.
(6.12) In the formal education system reforms are being introduced to improve  scientific education through changes in the curriculum and methodology and through  short- and long-term teacher-training courses.
(6.13) We also have a programme, to which we attach great importance, for the  carefully planned introduction of computer science into education, beginning at the  pre-school and infant level during the next school year. This is what we are working  for today, in every sphere that can help us to develop a programme providing a  comprehensive education system for Costa Rica, clearly aimed at improving the  students' capacity for logical thinking and stimulating inventiveness and talent. I  should like to share this experience with you, because I am aware of the many efforts  being made in other countries, from which we could benefit. It is our hope that our  experience can help others to set up similar programmes. Our programme is planned to  be implemented by stages; technical ana financial provision has already been made for  the initial stages, whereas we shall be largely dependent on whatever co-operation we  can find for those that follow.
(6.14) In the domain of culture, we are making considerable efforts to preserve our  values and to strengthen our individuality. Frenzied industrial and business  competition confuses and disorients the population, particularly young people, leading  to the rapid creation of a pleasure-seeking and grasping society, which gives rise to  opportunism and unhealthy rivalry. We regard it as essential to strengthen contacts  with nature and with our own history and are attempting to achieve this through  environmental education programmes, encouragement of open-air leisure activities,  cultural exchanges among communities, and radio and television programmes celebrating  nature and our history, while helping to save legends and traditions, promote our  architectural and archaeological heritage and, above all, disseminate and publicize  our democratic process, which plays a key role in Costa Rica's national identity.
(6.15) We are well aware of the fact that the participation of women in the  political and economic life of our societies is not achieved by passing laws that  grant women equality of rights and responsibilities. Such laws are necessary but not  sufficient. What is needed is to convince women, in their heart of hearts, that they  are capable of exercising their ability to participate fully and without reserve in  economic and political life, while educating men to accept this reality.
(6.16) Despite problems, Costa Rican society has accepted the change-over and it is  with pride that I can inform you that, two years after the end of the United Nations  Decade for Women, no one in my country finds it odd that there should be women  ministers or deputy ministers, or that a woman should preside over the Legislative  Assembly, that there is a woman judge in our Supreme Court of Justice, or finally,  that a woman should be Vice-president and should, on five occasions, have acted as  President of the Republic.
(6.17) Nearly 40 years ago I came to Paris for the first time, under the auspices of  UNICEF. Europe was still devastated by the ravages of war. The course in social  paediatrics that I attended was concerned precisely with showing what France, Belgium,  Holland and Switzerland were doing for abandoned children and war orphans. This visit  to Europe deeply marked me for the rest of my life and caused me to bless my own  country, where the searing experience of war was unknown. I also came to think that  the suffering of children, who are the wealth and the hope of mankind, would have been  worse if civilization had yielded to barbarism.
(6.18) At a later stage I was a member of the Costa Rican Commission for Co-  operation with Unesco and had the honour to be its Permanent Secretary for 15 years.  From its establishment in 1951, our Commission acted as a link between Unesco and the  Government of Costa Rica and as a centre for disseminating information, throughout the  national territory, about Unesco and the United Nations and what they stand for in the  world, particularly through the Associated Schools and Unesco Clubs, which serve the  cause of international understanding and education for peace. As Permanent Secretary I  was, on two occasions, invited to Headquarters where I gained a full insight into  Unesco's philosophy and programmes, which still set the standards for education,  science, culture and communication.
(6.19) Today, as Vice-president of the Republic of Costa Rica, I am highly honoured  to head my country's delegation to this forum, the most highly qualified in the world  in these fields. On behalf of the people and Government of Costa Rica, I should like  to express my best wishes for the success of the General Conference, for the personal  well-being of the Unesco administration and of all the participants and for the  advancement of the nations so worthily represented here. 1 feel confident that the
229  e    serious and responsible work that we are undertaking will be rewarded with fruitful  and positive results for the world community, which is struggling to fulfil the  supreme aspirations of the human spirit and is resolutely facing up to the challenge  imposed on it today by history.
7. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Costa Rica et je donne la  parole b M. Mapuranga, secrétaire général adjoint de l'organisation de l'Unité  africaine.
8.1 Mr MAPUñANGA (Organization of African Unity):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, permit me at the very outset to congratulate the  President most sincerely on his election and to wish him complete success in the  discharge of his difficult task. I am confident that, with his vast experience  as an outstanding diplomat, he will guide the deliberations of this much awaited  session in such a way as to ensure the success to which Unesco aspires.
8.2 I also take this opportunity to express to the Chairman of the  Executive Board, whose task has not been very easy in recent years and, one  might add, in the last few days, my appreciation of the qualities that enabled  him to direct the affairs of this institution during this turbulent period.
8.3 Mr President, once again Africa is responding to your invitation by  bringing to this universal forum its message: an expression of its hopes and  expectations. By accepting the invitation to address this- General Conference,  the Organization of African Unity is not in any way seeking merely to comply  with any given tradition whatsoever. Its prime purpose is to declare its faith,  its most profound faith, in multilateralism and to reaffirm its firm commitment  to international co-operation. Africa is doing this at a time when traces still  remain of the crisis in Unesco which called into question the raison d'etre as  well as the aims of this noble Orgdnization and, even beyond that, the funda-  mental principles and objectives of the United Nations system as a whole.
8.4 In coming to speak to you today on the particularly grave situation of  the African continent, our intention is not merely to lay open before this forum  the misery and suffering of the population of an entire continent, but to draw  your attention to the baleful forces that now threaten life itself in Africa and  dim the prospects of the continent's all-round recovery. We are here to report  to you on the courageuus efforts and sacrifices being made in the various fields  by our people and governments, with the primary purpose of survival and  recuperation, as well as to convince you that all those efforts and sacrifices  will be meaningless uriless they lead to the establishment of a genuine new  international economic order that will be just, proper and capable of initiating  a coherent process of liberation and self-sustaining development.
8.5 Our purpose in this forum is also to speak to you about the things on  which we set our hopes for the future, for we are aware that our continent's  socio-economic underdevelopment is not an act of fate. Other countries have  experienced similar hardships in the past and have overcome them. That is why we  have €or the past few years consistently searched for guidelines from men of  goodwill, from institutions as well as from historic events. It is this process  that has led to ihe preparation of a number of programmes for Africa, among  them, the Lagos Plan of Action and the Final Act of Lagos, Africa's Priority  Programnie for Economic Recovery, and the United Nations Programme of Action for  African Economic Recovery and Development 1986-1990. These are, of course, mere  documents and blueprints, but they also constitute a commitment on the part of  our States to ensure that the immense resources of our vast continent are  expioited and developed primarily to satisfy the basic needs and aspirations of  our peoples.
8.6 The endogenous and self-sustained development recommended in Monrovia  in 1979 does not imply growth at all costs. It aims at the all-round development  of the total man, for the benefit of all mankind. Hence the fundamental role we  assign to culture. African culture must participate, more than ever before, in  the struggle for the liberation and development of the continent. Africa's  Cultural Charter laid emphasis on this aspect in 1976 by recommending the  integration of our cultural development plan into the overall economic and  social development strategy, thus supporting the view expressed at the symposium  held in Monrovia that the primary objective of development can only be the  creation of the physical and cultural conditions favourable to the development  of creative participation by all our people. Culture and development have a  dialectical symbiosis, and are central to our titanic struggle for continental  regeneration. By rehabilitating our cultural values and making culture the sound  basis of our development strategy, we guarantee our efforts a permanent and  viable framework as well as an orientation guided by noble objectives. It was in
7  this context that our Heads of State and Government adopted in 1981 a  declaration on the cultural aspects of the Lagos Plan of Action and decided to  establish the Conference of African Ministers of Culture to complement the  various developmental institutions of the OAU. As you know, the Conference of  African Ministers of Culture met for the first time in Mauritius in April last  year, its general theme being 'Culture and Development in Africa'. The Confer-  ence provided an occasion to assess Africa's Cultural Charter and to adopt a  cultural development plan as well as a linguistic plan of action.
8.1 In addition, the establishment in 1981 of the Inter-African Cultural  Fund shows that the OAU is gradually taking a number of actions to deal with our  cultural problems. But our cultural policy guidelines are also influenced by the  latest developments at the international level. Some of the developments , you  will remember, emerged from the World Conference on Cultural Policies held in  Mexico City. Since then other developments have taken place. Thus the very  profound analysis made by Director-General M'Bow is a true reflection of our  deep-seated concerns. This continuous review of problems and prospects for the  year 2000 is also reflected in Major Programme I, which forms the basis of our  preparations for the World Decade for Cultural Development. Needless to recall,  the OAU has enhanced the scope of this programme by incorporating into it a  number of future events. We must admit that much remains to be done, but we  welcome the high priority given to Major Programme XI which deals with measures  for the Decade. We also welcome the most praiseworthy decision of the Executive  Board OII the setting up of an Intergovernmental Committee to monitor the  implementation of the Decade. I should like to assure you that Africa will not  fail to fulfil its commitments. Africa wishes to assure Unesco of its total  commitment to multilateral co-operation. Africa proposes to take an active part  in the structures and institutions to be established. Above all, Africa will  assist in the planning, preparation and implementation of national, subregional  and Pan-African projects. Already, our continent has taken the necessary  measures to strengthen and rerider operational the Inter-African Cultural  Development Fund. It has also selected a number of projects likely to be  implemented during the Cultural Decade. These measures include the eventual  establishment of an African Cultural Common Market, the development of  endogenous cultural industries, the aevelopment of communications, the promotion  of traditional pharmacopoeias and medicines and endogenous technologies, the  promotion of African languages and the eventual establishment of an African  Unity University. Similarly, the OAU has decided that the item 'Africa and the  World Culturül Development Decade' should be high on the agerida of the
2nd Conference of African Ministers of Culture, hopefully to be held in 1988 in  Burkina Faso.
8.8 Mr President, we know that the impact and the success of the Cultural  Decade in Africa will depend mainly on genuine co-operation and political will  at all levels. Our continent's cultural values shoula promote, and not militate  against, the development of science and technology in our continent. It was'with  this in mind that the OAU organized in Brazzaville from 25 to 30 June this year  the first Congress of African Scientists, an account of which was given by the  Director-General in his Report last Wednesday. This important congress had as  its theme 'The mobilization of the African scientific commuriity for Africa's  development'. In a declaration called the Brazzaville Declaration and in a  series of recommendations, the participants pointed out the measures to be taken  in order to ensure that science and technology assist our States in their  developmental efforts. Never had there been such an open arid comprehensive  treatment of the African continent's scientific and technological affairs. Our  scientists, as you will recall from the Director-General's report, decided to  establish a Pan African Union of Science and Technology, a federation of the  continent's scientific institutes and associations. The headquarters is iri  Brazzaville. But, in particular , the African scientists took advantage of this  congress to express their readiness to co-operate closely with governments. Some  days later in Arushd, Tarizania, at CASTAFRICA II, we resumed the debate and  expressed the iieed for a follow-up on recommendations that we adopt from time to  time. Our preoccupation has a great deal in common with the concern expressed by  our Director-General in his report 24 C/37 dealing with the establishment of a  Standing Conference of the Directors of the Kational Science and Technology  Policy-Making Bodies of the Unesco Member States of the Africa Region.
8.9 Mr President, in spite of all the dire challenges facing them, African  countries cannot dissociate themselves from the plight of peoples suffering from  the horrors of war, violations of their most basic human rights, torture and the  baneful effects of racial bigotry. The OAU, faithful to its Charter, calls upon  Unesco to renew its support and commitment to the Liberation Movements in South  Africa and Namibia, to the Palestine Liberation Organization and to the Peoples  of the Occupied Arab Territories. We are convinced that the nations $hat have  fraternally assembled in this forum will understand our position: apartheid and  Zionism pose a very serious threat to international peace and co-operation. They  constitute a blatant atfront to the very principles and ideals for which Unesco  stands.
8.10 In conclusion, Mr President, you may have noticed from the substance of  our address the harmonious relations, the very harmonious relations, that exist  between Unesco and the OAU. Africa wishes to lay the basis for a more comprehen-  sive and more profound framework of co-operation, at once interdependent and  reciprocal. I am pleased to be able to testify from this podium that Unesco’s  policy towards the OAU has been of such a kind, and this has led to the estab-  lishment between the two Organizations oï a joint commission entrusted with the  periodic evaluation of their joint programmes. At the conference of African  Ministers of Culture, at the First Congress of African Scientists, and at  CASTAFRICA II, Unesco stood by our side and managed to meet our expectations by  giving us appreciable and most effective support.
8.11 Mr Presiderit, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, it is only fair to acknowledge before you that this  exemplary co-operation has been possible thanks to the indefatigable Director-  General and hi5 dedicated staff, as well as the vision and wisdom of members of  the Executive Board. I wish to pay tribute to their dedication, competence and  courage. Above all, Africa wishes to commend all those who have managed the  affairs of Unesco with fortitude and equanimity in the face of imiense negative  pressures. Unesco survived, and Africa wishes it greater success in the future,  tor our sake and for the sake of posterity. I thank you all.  (M. Putzeys Alvarez reprend la présidence)
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Deputy Secretary-General of the Organization of African Unity for  his statement and give the floor to Mr Bakri Ahmed Adil, head of the delegation of  Sudan.
(10.1) Mr ADIL (Sudan) (Translation from the Arabic):  In the Name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate ... 'By the token of time  through the ages, verily man is in loss, except such as have faith and do righteous  deeds and join together in the mutual teaching of truth and of patience and  constancy'. Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive  Board, Pír Director-General, distinguished heads and members of delegations, I should  first like to offer you my warmest congratulations Mr President, on your election to  the presidency of the twenty-fourth session of Unesco's General Conference. I am  confident that under your wise and discerning guidance the deliberations of our  Conference will produce constructive results and recommendations. I am pleased to have  the opportunity to address this distinguished gathering of scholars and intellectuals,  and to convey my people's warmest regards and sincere best wishes to you yourselves  and to your respective peoples, I hope that this great intellectual gathering will  make a positive and meaningful contribution to the creative and constructive efforts  to promote international understanding and co-operation, to consolidate world peace  and to ensure that the bounties of civilization are enjoyed in all areas of human  life. And may the race to achieve freedom, democracy and good fellowship be the only  source of rivalry among States, especially the most advanced among them. My own
234    courageous people have given concrete form to these lofty ideals by overthrowing two  military dictatorships and working tirelessly for the establishment of close ties of  friendship with all the peoples of the world.
(10.2) Mr President, the Sudanese nation views Unesco as the radiant face of human  civilization, a storehouse of knowledge to be used in the service of our peoples, and  a seat of wisdom for the scientific investigation of whatever seems to jeopardize  international peace and security. It was therefore natural and logical for my country  to place its hopes in Unesco and in its ability to tackle the problems besetting the  international community, to consolidete its established principles, to achieve its  lofty aims and to continue adding to its fine achievements. And since the idea of  founding Unesco had its origins in the tragedy of the Second World War with its  massive destruction of human life and civilization, it is our strong and principled  conviction that Unesco's basic role, in accordance with its Constitution and its  fields of competence, is to consider, analyse and evaluate world problems, objectively  and scientifically, taking care to stand aloof from any intellectual or ideological  conflict that might lead to a split among the members of the international community.
(10.3) Mr President, permit me to offer you a brief glimpse of some of my country's  urgent problems, which are certainly of relevance to this great Conference and  deserving of your attention. We trust that Unesco and its Member States will maintain  and enhance their support for our present fruitful co-operation so that our people can  recover from the temporary setback occasioned by devastating natural causes and the  despotism of the former totalitarian regime, and contribute in the future with their  huge potential to the development and prosperity of nations.
(10.4) Mr President, the events in southern Sudan, the instability, sedition,  insurrection, bloodshed and pillage were largely instigated by the abolished military  regime and are being fuelled 2nd sustained by certain foreign agencies and well-known  international strategies. The democratic Government of Sudan is determined to find a  peaceful solution to the problem through democratic dialogue around the negotiating  table in order to end the bloodshed and to preserve national unity and sovereignty. We  appeal to the international community to try to understand what is really happening in  southern Sudan. It is neither a religious nor an ethnic conflict but a case of  differences of opinion that some have used as a pretext for interfering in our  internal affairs, damaging our national interests and wasting resources and energies  that should be channelled into development ana construction.
(10.5) Mr President, drought and desertification have ravaged large parts of my  country, destroying crops and livestock and causing heavy loss of lite. Those who  managed to survive moved towards the cities, surrounding them with improvised  dwellings. This unplanned influx of inhabitants led to the collapse of basic services,  in particular education. Mass immigration from neighbouring countries due to natural  or political disorders has wrought havoc in Sudan, causing permanent instability.  Refugees have become a source of tension and a heavy burden on the country's scarce  resources. They now account for more than 10 per cent of the total population. For  humanitarian reasons and out of a sense of moral duty, Sudan has offered and contiiiues  to offer them every possible assistance, sharing its daily bread and providing them  with land and shelter in spite of its difficult economic situation. Brothers and  sisters, we appeal from this forum to the international community to assume its share  of responsibility for these refugees and to provide further assistance until such time  as circumstances permit them to return voluntarily to their countries.
(10.6) Mr President, the overthrown totalitarian regime in our country wrecked the  whole development process, depriving people of the simplest daily necessities and  reducing Sudan's role in the international community. As I said, the major problems  were those relating to education. The absence of policies and plans and the failure to  link education to development programmes led to enormous imbalances in basic  educational facilities, with general theoretical academic education accounting for
85 per cent of the total. Technical and vocational education collapsed, being  considered only fit for those unable to compete in academic education. Disparities in  general educational facilities between different regions of the country and between  urban and rural areas became more pronounced, as did inequalities in educational  opportunities between the sexes. The process of renewing and improving the content of  education was neglected, whereas education should keep pace with progress and take  account of recent changes in order to play a leading role in society. The unplanned  quantitative growth in education led to a basic imbalance which cccflicted with the  principles of democratization and equality of opportunity and with the important role  of education in improving the quality of life. Primary education, for example, grew at  a rate of 6 per cent, compared with rates of 27 and 38 per cent respectively for  intermediate and secondary education. The capacity of primary education therefore  decreased together with the prospects for universal compulsory education at that  level.
(10.7) In spite of this gloomy picture, however, there is an increasingly firm  resolve in my country to shpport the serious efforts on behalf of the population as a
235    whole reflected in the documents, recommendations and decisions adopted at national  conferences and highly specialized meetings. These efforts have resulted in a renewal  of the objectives of education and the formulation of objective policies and plans  that take the country's resources into consideration and are implemented through  practical strategies in the framework of the national recovery and reform programme  adopted by the government, whose efforts have been supported by Unesco and by friendly  States. Prior to that,' steps had been taken to organize our people's endogenous  capacities and to raise national awareness, for example through the adoption of a  national programme for the reform of educational institutions, inasmuch as education  is recognized as an essential human right. On the occasion of International Human  Rights Day on 10 December 1986 and the fortieth anniversary of the foundation of  Unesco, the Constituent Assembly representing the people of Sudan announced its plan  for a national campaign for the maintenance and improvement of schools, an initiative  that deserves careful attention and study. We are willing to explain it in detail to  any country that wishes to benefit from this innovative approach.
(10.8) Mr President, we observe with pride and gratitude the constructive  co-operation that is developing between our country and Unesco, as attested by the  technical and material support from its own resources and experience provided by the  Organization through its different institutions, and its effozts to mobilize  assistance for us from international and regional funds, whose efforts and generosity  we appreciate. As a result, pioneering programmes and projects contributing to the  development of education, science and culture in our country have been implemented.  However, we feel that Unesco should take the situation in Member States into account  when establishing priorities and considering the volume of support in order to narrow  the gap and reduce the glaring disparities among the least developed, the developing  and the advanced countries, in the interests of international understanding and peace,  and in order to ensure that the benefits derived from the Organization do not consist  solely in demands and projects or the presence of specialized regional offices or  representatives in a particular country, as is the case in our own experience.
(10.9) Mr President, we support the Draft Programme and Budget for 1988-1989 and  consider that the closing stages of the second Medium-Term Plan should link up with  the third Medium-Term Plan. We further support all the preparatory work on the  forthcoming plan already accomplished. I do not wish to go into detail, but I believe  that the Programme and Budget were prepared in accordance with the directkes of the  Executive Board and the budgeting techniques recommended by the last General  Conference and the subsequent sessions of the Executive Board. We hope that the  process of reflection on the Draft Programme and Budget will be enriched in terms of  priorities in the following important areas.
(10.10) As regards education, there has been a rapid growth in world population,  especially in the developing countries, as a result of the revolutions in industry,  agriculture and health care. This unplanned population growth, out of step with  overall development, has generated critical demographic problems undermining both the  material and the spiritual quality of life. The world has concluded that education is  the best remedy for population problems, using educational programmes to put across  sound population concepts in order to develop rational and responsible behaviour and  the ability to take decisions conducive to a better quality of life. The role and  importance of education are growing extremely rapidly. We give it top priority in our  Programme and Budget, especially basic and non-formal education. In short, only the  educated are fully aware of the importance of a good education and of health and  nutrition for themselves and their families. They also have a better chance of finding  employment consonant with their needs and they are able to strike a rational balance  between income and family size in order to ensure a better quality of life and  maintain the requisite balance between development and population growth.
(10.11) In the field of science and technology, the gap is widening day by day  between the rich advanced countries and the poor developing ones, as a natural outcome  of the tremendous progress that has been made in the use and application of the  sciences and the use of advanced technologies in the developed countries. The Third  World remains locked in the vicious circle of poverty and underdevelopment, striving to  produce raw materials by means of primitive techniques. Unesco has a vital and urgent  role to play in helping these countries to develop their access to science and  technology and their ability to exploit their enormous potential for the development  of their societies.
(10.12) As regards promoting the status of women, the only way of ensuring that they  can use their capacities to the full on behalf of socio-economic development is by  removing the inequalities that persist in different branches of daily life.
(10.13) With regard to communication, the basic prerequisite for promoting  understanding among the peoples of the world and a sense of shared membership of the  international community in line with Unesco's basic objective of ensuring peace,  freedom and prosperity for humankind as a whole is the development of a new  communication order permitting the free flow of information and ideas.
(10.14) I should like to join the Director-General in drawing attention to the heavy  burden of debt weighing on the internal and external balances of the developing  countries and paralysing their development efforts. I appeal from this forum to the  developed countries to consider their financial contribution to Unesco's budget as a  subvention to all our countries in order to ease the burden of our foreign debt.
(10.15) Mr President, our region is the victim of a foreign cultural invasion posing  a threat to universities and other institutions in the occupied Arab territories, as  revealed in Father Boné's report. I should like to commend that report, which confirms  for the first time what we have asserted time and time again in this meeting-room  about the Israeli invasion of Palestine.
(10.16) Mr President, I wish to speak about another war that is threatening our  region and world peace: the internecine war between Iraq and Iran known to the world  as the Gulf war. Whatever its root cause, this war has been taken as a pretext for  foreign military intervention and the promotion of a world arms market. It is the duty  of this Organization to look beyond the cultural and educational repercussions of the  war, to undertake a comprehensive analysis of its roots and development and to renew  its appeal for a cessation of hostilities. The Security Council has adopted a  resolution calling for an end to the war. Let us all work together for its  implementation.
(10.17) Mr President, our Organization has undergone a severe trial during the past  few days as a result of the difficulties encountered by the Board in nominating a  candidate for the post of Director-General for the coming term. We have the right to  question why the matter of electing the Director-General of an international  organization such as Unesco was not made the subject of a prior in-depth study dealing  with all possible outcomes and eventualities. How did some parties manage to turn the  legal texts into a source of tendentious interpretations? And how was the withdrawal  of a candidate announced before a request to that effect had been received from the  country that had nominated him? Many other questions, Mr President, continue to  preoccupy those of us who have come here from the Third World.
(10.18) Mr President, before concluding I should like to say a word of thanks and  appreciation to the Director-General Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, who came to this  Organization as a son of Africa and qualified through many years' service as a son of  the world. His work on behalf of the Organization will remain as a heritage for all  time, in particular his deep respect for human rights and cultures and his recognition  of the equal dignity of all cultures. As a token of its appreciation of Mr M'Bow's  great services to science and knowledge, my country has awarded him the Order of the  Two Niles, First Degree, an honour reserved for outstanding individuals.
(10.19) Mr President, in spite of all its troubles, this Organization will never  cease to be a symbol of hope for the spread of science aiid knowledge so that all  peoples may be united. And we, the peoples of the Third World, will keep our eyes and  our hopes fixed on Unesco, seeking the light of knowledge and truth. Thank you,  Mr President.
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Sudan for his statement. I now give the  floor to H.E. Mrs Lourdes Quisumbing, General Secretary for Education, Culture and  Sports, Vice-Chairwoman of the National Commission of the Philippines for Unesco and  Head of the Delegation of the Philippines.
12.1 Mrs QUISUMBING (Philippines) :  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, the Philippine  delegation shares the sentiments of other delegations in congratulating you,  Mr President, upon your election to the presidency of the twenty-fourth session  of the General Conference of Unesco. We are confident that the trust reposed in  you will be equalled by your astuteness and vision in steering our deliberdtions  towards the goals of this Conference. This occasion gives me and my delegation  the opportunity to convey to all delegates and to the officers of the conference  the greetings of Her Excellericy, President Corazon C. Aquino, and of the people  of the Republic of the Philippines. We are a people who fully support the  aspirations and efforts of Unesco to continue to preserve and enhance peace in  the minas and hearts of men, and we are interested to see that peace becomes the  rallying point around which our work in this Conference will revolve ...
12.2 We hope that our efforts here will stimulate, more strongly than ever  before, the kind of commitment and determination needed to translate into  reality the ideals of Unesco so that they will be felt and appreciated by the
5 billion people of the entire world, not merely by those reached by the centres  of activity of the Organization.
12.3 This Conference session marks the start of the fifth decade of the  Organization's existence, its fortieth anniversary having taken place two years  ago. The Organization should now set its sights on the years ahead with  heightened resolve to do more with less and to do better with what it has. Let  it be said, moreover, that in the continuing quest for a future that mankind  deserves, part of our hope should be that those who found cause to depart from  the Organization in former years will now find equally valid reasons for  returning, confident that a renewal of their commitment to Unesco will brighten  the horizon of peace arid bring it nearer to reality throughout the world. I  invite everyone to share this vision. I ask that we all unite to seek the  fulfilment of this'hope.
12.4 Mr President, as we focus on the substance and direction of the Draft  Programme and Budget for 1988-1989, and as we look beyond the biennium through  the Draft Medium-Term Plan for 1990-1995, we note the reassuring fidelity of the  Secretariat to the goals, objectives and directives embodied in the second  Medium-Term Plan. They have succeeded in bringing greater coherence to the  sructure of major programmes, subprogrammes and work plans designed to effect  better programme concentration that could facilitate better co-ordination.  However, we must take into account the overridincj need to build into the  Organization's capacity the means of implementing them effectively, efficiently  and equitably. The expense of time and effort in programme preparation should be  matched by a corresponding measure of determination and the capacity for  progranime implementation.
12.5 I refer, for example, to Unesco's battle against illiteracy. Twenty-  five years ago the then Director-General, René Maheu, dramatically drew  attention to the fact that there were, at that time, some 700 million  illiterates in the world. The Organization was not short of words or wisdom to  formulate programmes to combat illiteracy. We in Asia produced the Karachi Plan,  a 20-year programme for universal education. This was followed by the Teheran  Conference in 1965 and other conferences after it whose appropriate recommen-  datiolis were made to arouse interest in and action on the global problem of  illiteracy. Today we are told that there are 889 million no-read, no-write  illiterates. Illiteracy rates are reported to have decreased, but the number of  illiterates has increased by about 4 million a year. We have spoken at length  about 'education for all', but we need to do more to eradicate the scourge of  ignorance. We know from experience that this aspect of the human condition  erodes any effort towards social arid economic progress, and is therefore a  deterrent to stability and peace.
12.6 We note with high expectations the increased resources proposed for  Subprogramme 11.1.1, 'Better understanding of the problem of illiteracy'. We  have just launched the Asia-Pacific Programme of Education for All (APPEAL) to  spur us to do more thari have a better understanding of illiteracy. We submit  that there is now sufficient knowledge about its nature and fundamental causes.  What we need is the wherewithal to do what must be done to succeed in bringing  about its eradication. We should now do more about geting rid of illiteracy than  making studies of its results. This suggestion applies, in principle, to all the  other programmes of Unesco.
12.7 It is equally important that greater efforts be invested in democrati-  zing educational opportunities, in extending education to unschooled or little-  schooled adults, especially to women and girls. All of these efforts could  combine to induce the development of comprehensive strategies for the full  development of the human person to enable every individual to benefit from  education as well as tu contribute to social reconstruction and renewal. We all  agree that the human person is at the centre of all our concerns, and yet  millions are deprived of the fundamental right to education and the enjoyment of  a better quality ut life. We must resolve, therefore, to remove the social and  economic obstacles that stand in the way of the equitable distribution of  educational opportunities. To do so requires more than a reawakening from our  appalent lethargy; it requires the inducement of political will to break away  from deeply rooted beliefs and attitudes in order to bring about needed change.  These aims also require research that could lead to sweeping reforms of outdated  and irrelevant educational systems and practices to allow the introduction of  non-traditional, innovative approaches to education that will ensure not only  equity but also quality, relevance and the teaching of the most profound human  values which are yet progressive values and attitudes.
12.8 We view science, with its consequent effect of technological advance-  ment, as complementary to education. The two are intertwined in a synergistic  manner. The wellspring of science is the enlightened, educated and well-  developed mind.
12.9 We view the programmes of research, training and international CO-  operation in science and technology as well as in the social and human sciences  as means for accelerating social development. We invite caution, however, with  regard to ill-conceived transfers of technology which tend to be counter-  developmental by perpetuating undue dependence rather than promoting inter-  dependence. We must give sufficient latitude for all nations , specifically the  less developed and the developing, to improve their indigenous technologies by  supporting local creativity and invention, using resources available to them.
12.10 We view Unesco's programme in the area of information systems and  access to knowledge in the context of a broader situation characterized by a  lopsided and uneven generation of knowledge and information. Such a situation,  unless proper balances are effective, could lead to undue intellectual dominance  of those who are far advanced in the production of information and in the  management of the information niedia. Thus, the concept of the free flow of  information is basically good to the extent that it brings about a cross-  fertilization of ideas and facts. It partakes of intellectual colonialism and a  new form of undesirable dependence if it contributes to the extinction of  knowledge among poorer societies for lack of the means of publication and  dissemination. The protection, preservation and exchange of intellectual  property should therefore underlie the implementation of Unesco's programme on  information systems and access to knowledge.
12.11 We have also become aware of the plethora of recommendations, resolu-  tions, conventions and agreements which have emerged from over four decades of  Unesco's work. However, we note with much concern the fact that, by and large,  these documents,. which have embodied many of the ideals and aspirations of our  peoples, need to be reviewed so that they may be properly implemented. We have  reached a point when we should now focus on the urgent need to translate into  action such ideas that would contribute to the attainment of Unesco's goals.
12.12 Mr President, ladies arid gentlemen, the Philippines has just emerged  from a non-violent revolution to become a more free and humane society whose  development rests upon such fundamental principles as respect for human dignity  and human rights, recognition of the fundamental freedoms of thought, speech,  assembly and movement; and the institution of a just social order. Our struggle  for political stability and economic recovery goes on every day as we face the  difficulties of rebuilding a democracy. We face the ill effects of social  upheavals consequent upon the painful process of change, but we are determined  to bring about sweeping reforms to establish the environment necessary for  accelerating economic recovery and sustained economic growth and to enhance our  own capability to build a self-reliant society. Our new Constitution places the  highest budgetary priority on education and a high measure of importance .upon  science, culture and the mass media, all within the ambit of Unesco's concerns.
12.13 In our Philippine Medium-Term Development Plan (1987-1992) , we aspire  to harness more fully the resources of science anci technology to help achieve  the objectives of economic recovery and to create a favourable climate for  rebuilding our nation. Due importance will be given to science and technology,  to a more intensive programme of research and development and the establishment  of regional structures to facilitate technology transfer from the urban centres  to the countryside. This will be carried on while strategies are geared towards  the generation of employment opportunities creating new jobs, higher income  levels and the equitable distribution of the fruits of development.
12.14 The predominant concern in the area of social science is the re-  establishment of fundamental attitudes and values and appropriate mechanisms to  strengthen democracy. Greater efforts will be made in social science research  programmes that will contribute to an increasing understanding of social issues,  the analysis of which will be brought to bear upon present and future Concerns.
12.15 In the area of cormunication, we are concerned about promoting higher  levels of professionalisni among mass media practitioners , media ageiicies  information networks and allied institutions. We see vast possibilities with  respect to the important role of the mass media both for the dissemination of  accurate and up-to-date information and for tapping its tremendous potentials as  a parallel form of education.
12.16 The field of culture is teeming with opportunities for bringing-  dynamism and creativity, especially through our national artists, not only to  the best of our cultural heritage but also to the emerging cultural patterns
239    characterized by the blending of influences that contribute to cultural enrich-  ment. Thus, the search for national identity is properly balanced by a positive  attitude towards the acculturation process which promotes increasingly better  understanding and appreciation of the diversity of cultures throughout the  world. One such activity to which we in the Philippines would like to invite all  of you, all the distinguished delegates, is an International Festival and  Conference Workshop on indigenous and traditional cultures to usher in the World  Decade for Cultural Development. It will be held in Manila in February 1988.
12.17 It is clear, bír President, that the abiding interest of the Philippines  in Unesco is a natural result of what we are already doing at home. The  Philippine delegation, therefore, may be expected to participate in this session  along lines that will reduce gaps and disparities, that will do away with  tensions and misplaced animosities and ill-feelings, and that will, instead,  promote to the utmost mutual understanding, goodwill and co-operation for the  buildirig of a more just and human world order. Thank you, Mr President.
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Head of the Delegation of the Philippines for her statement. I  now invite H.E. Mr Hans Tuppy, Federal Minister for Science and Research and Head of  the Delegation of Austria, to take the floor.
14.1 Mr TUPPY (Austria) :  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, allow me  first and foremost to congratulate you, Mr President, on election to your high  office. May your wisdom and experience guide us through the difficulties of this  General Conference session to its successful conclusion.
14.2 Unesco continues to implement the reforms agreed upon during the last  General Conference session in Sofia. But, in the view of my delegation, the  reform process should gain further momentum. We observe in the whole United  Nations system endeavours to increase effectiveness and efficiency. Unesco,  heavily criticized in recent years for flaws in administration and programmes,  could play a special role in that respect. Decisive measures are called for  today in order to restore confidence in our Organization and, as a consequence,  induce those countries which left Unesco to join it again.
14.3 Austria has always supported the principle of universality in the  United Nations system. Let me therefore express the sincere hope that the United  States or America, the United Kingdom and Singapore will return to this  Organization as soon as possible.
14.4 Mr President, the Executive Board of Unesco has decided to nominate the  Spanish scientist, Federico Mayor Zaragoza, for appointment to the post of  Director-General of this Organization. We welcome this decision and we wish the  candidate to this high office all the best. Austria has full confidence in this  choice. The task of the future Director-General will not be an easy one, but  with the help of all he will succeed in placing Unesco on commonly accepted  lines. As a 'fellow biochemist' I should also like to encourage Mr Mayor  personally, and I can assure him of Austria's full support in carrying out his  difficult task.
14.5 Mr President, permit me now to deal with Unesco's Draft Programme and  Budget for 1988-1989, again based on zero real growth which we welcome. Austria  would, however, appreciate further concentration of the programmes so as to make  Unesco's initiatives more effective.
14.6 Education has been the traditional field in which Unesco's role has  been pre-eminent. The eradication of illiteracy has received top priority by the  interiiatiorial community. Austria will certainly contribute to International  Literacy Year planned for 1990. Austria attaches great importance to creating  increased public awareness about the nature and scope of illiteracy and to  mobilizing governments and non-governmental organizations to take more vigorous  measures against illiteracy. International co-operation in support of primary  schoolirig and literacy work, especially increased support from industrialized  countries for literacy programmes in developing countries, should be achieved.
14.7 Austria also consider it very useful to promote measures aimed at the  implementation, at national, regional and global levels, of a plan of action to  eradicate illiteracy by the year 2000 as well as to launch new measures to
240    combat functional illiteracy in industrialized countries. Austria is convinced  that the international community, with the help of Unesco, will &chieve these  objectives of wiping out illiteracy from our world and opening the road to a  better future for mankind.
14.8 'Education for all', as envisaged in Major Programme II, has our full  support. The same applies to the democratization of education and the  elimination of ineqcalities suffered by certain groups, in particular women and  the population in rural areas. Priority should be given to developing countries.
14.9 Science and technology are the key to progress. Austria, therefore,  fully supports Unesco's majos scientific programmes. My country is a member of  the General Information Programme, of the International Geological Correlation  Programme and of the International Programme on Man and the Biosphere. We also  take an interest in the International Hydrological Programme as well as in the  Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission. Austria is not only particularly  interested in scientific co-operation in Europe but also attaches special  importance to global scieritif ic co-operation.
14.10 In a spirit of scientific co-operation, Austria wishes to draw atten-  tion to the still growing impact of the electronic media upon the production,  dissemination and consumption of cultural goods and values and in general to the  impact of technological progress upon the status and work of creators of  culture, including artists. Unesco is the appropriate body for initiating  international studies on the various aspects of man in a changing mediasphere.  The importance of this issue should be emphasized in the context of the World  Decade for Cultural Development.
14.11 Culture is another traditional field in which Unesco has gained a high  reputation. Austria attaches particular interest to the United Nations World  Decade for Cultural Development from 1988 to 1997 and will try to contribute at  the national level, through its National Committee for the Decade and its  National Commission for Unesco, to achieve the noble goals of worldwide action  guided by the World Plan of Action prepared by Unesco, all Austrian authorities  and institutions concerned will spare no effort to close the gap between rapid  scientific-technological progress, on the one hand, and cultural identity, on  the other.
14.12 Human rights, Mr President, have to be respected everywhere in the  world. There can be no lasting peace if human rights are violated. There is no  doubt that a wide gap continues to exist between human rights instruments and  the dark reality in many parts of the world. The United Nations and, in  particular, its Commission on Human Rights have been continuously examining  existing norms for possible improvements and searching for new fields of action.
14.13 As regards Unesco, we are or the opinion that it should primarily  impart a knowledge of already defined and codified human rights through  education, particularly teaching programmes. We fully support Unesco's  activities in the field of human rights teaching.
14.14 The spirit of tolerance has to be developed early, schoolchildren  should already be learning it, and the knowledge of human rights plays an  important role in this connection. We therefore feel that human rights teaching  cannot be restricted to universities and postgraduate institutions but has also  to be taught in primary and secondary schools.
14.15 Regarding violations of individual human rights in Unesco's fields of  competence, the role of the Executive Board's Committee on Conventions and  Recommendations should be strengthened.
14.16 Mr President, we are ot course, in favour of equal rights for women. In  Austria we are constantly intensifying our efforts to achieve equality between  men and women in general, especially in all fields-of professional life.
14.17 With a view to the acknowledged and ever-increasing role that education  and research have to play for the maintenance and strengthening of world peace,  Austria took an initiative in July 1987 fos the foundation of an  interüisciplinary all-European institution for postgraduate studies in peace  research and peace education. Member States of the European region will be  invited to participate in this endeavour.
14.18 In conclusion, let me reiterate my sincere hope that Unesco will  overcome its present difficulties. I wish to assure the Director-General  designate of Austria's firm support in his endeavours for the sake of our  Organization but also for the benefit of mankind. Thank you, Mr President.
(15) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Austria for his statement. I give the  floor to H.E. Mr Keshar Bahadur Bista, Minister of State for Education and Culture and  Head of the Delegation of Nepal.
16.1 Mr BISTA (Nepal):  Mr President, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, on behalf of the members of the Nepalese delegation and myself, I  extend to you, Mr President, my congratulations on your election to the  presidency of this twenty-fourth session of the Unesco General Conference. We  would like to express here our sincere appreciation for having this opportunity  to address this Conference and refer to the issues of great urgency to us all  with a view to seeking common solutions to our development problems.
16.2 Firstly, however, we wish to reaffirm our confidence in the vision that  is reflected in Unesco's Draft Programme and Budget for 1988-1989. We very much  agree that its major objectives are sound and feasible. The programme embodies  authentic international realities and aspiratiuns. Its wisdom reflects the  maturity which Unesco has attained from its three decades of active experience.
16.3 Mr Presiderit, in seeking solutions to our own development problems,  Nepal has been struggling against two scourges - ignorance and poverty, which  plague all developing countries in varying magnitude. Because one thrives upon  and complicates the other in a cyclical fashion, both must be assailed with  simultaneous arid closely integrated efforts. Illiteracy must be relentlessly  reduced until it is ultimately wiped out, at least as it stands now. Vital  skills must be taught and thereby, and only thereby, can the full creative  potential of each individual be released. But it is equally necessary to accom-  pany these educational efforts with sustained and equitable economic growth,  which will employ trained talents and provide ever-expanding access to learning.
16.4 In both these processes, science and technology are critical agents of  change. We note with satisfaction the priority Unesco has given to facilitating  the free Slow of know-how on science and technology between the advanced and  developing countries. This was identified as one of the five major tasks in  Unesco's Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989. I appreciate the relevant programmes  which are formulated for 1988-1989 to achieve the objective of this major task.
16.5 Mr President, with your permission I would like to elaborate briefly on  a few significant measures undertaken by Nepal in recerit years to further  achieve major devekopment goals similar to those set by this institution,  namely, decentralization in the administration of our development efforts, the  integration of educatiori wsth national economic planning, and enhancement of the  role of science and technology in both.
16.6 Under the dynamic leadership of His Majesty King Birendra Bir Bikram  Shah Dev, Nepal has laid a strong foundation for nation-building along demo-  cratic lines. On the political level, in the past two years alone Nepal has  conducted popular elections at the national and district levels, conforming to  earlier constitutional reforms after the historic National Referendum. In the  process, popular awareness about national development has been broadened and our  goals clarified.
16.7 Likewise, the current Seventh Plan (1985-1990) of His Majesty's  Government gives special emphasis to economic decentralization by stipulating  that development programmes should be budgeted directly at the district level.  Under the previous national plans, our government made great progress in  creating the necessary infrastructure, especially at the central level, for  economic expansion. The major task now is to distribute opportunity evenly to  all its people, and it is with this challenge in mind that the district-level  programming, planning and implementation mechanism has been established. The  government will no longer be a mere patron but rather an equal partner, working  hand in hand with local representatives, empowered 'through direct popular  elections to create and implement programmes of direct benefit to the  grass-roots level.
16.8 Paramount in this decentralization is the overriding objective to meet  basic needs, as signified by the determination of His Majesty's Government to  raise the basic living conditions of all Nepalese to quite a reasonable standard  by the year 2000.
16.9 The foremost challenge underlying both the effective use of this popu-  lar political power and the realization of these economic ambitions remains in  the form of the eradication of illiteracy. We are pleased to note the emphasis  made in Unesco's Programme and Budget for 1988-1989 on tackling illiteracy with  a combination of formal and non-formal education systems, which is precisely the  same approach taken by my country.
16.10 His Majesty King Birendra Bir Bikram Shah Dev has issued an edict under  which we are striving to provide free primary education to every school-going  child in the country. We have already increased primary-school enrolment to  almost 80 per cent, which is double what it was only 15 years ago. A five-year  Primary Education Project is working towards improving the teaching-learning  environment by upgrading physical facilities in the schools, providing textbooks  and supplementary reading materials, intensifying teacher training and promoting  parental and community participation in schools. The free distribution of  textbooks has been an ongoing programme which, as planned, will gradually cover  all primary-age children in the country. We have also undertaken measures, in  line with Unesco's priorities, to provide education for girls and women so as to  raise their status and increase their self-reliance. An 'Education of Girls and  Women Project' has been operated by the Ministry of Education and Culture for the  past 15 years, and new efforts such as a special scholarship programme continue  to be initiated.
16.11 The considerable gains we have so far made has given us the confidence  that the goal of universal primary education is indeed attainable in this  century. Be that as it may, however, the task of providing adequate facilities  for remote areas, and particularly for the handicapped, poses a major challenge  which will only be overcome with steady and firm efforts.
16.12 It is my pleasure to note that Nepalese endorsement of Unesco's Pro-  gramme of Education for All in Asia and the Pacific (APPEAL) has been reflecte6  in the policy priorities of expanding educational facilities in every settlement  of our Kingdom. In the near future, all children of primary-school age will be  enrolled at the schools available in their villages. Priority will continue to  be given to education for girls and to the literacy programme for women.
16.13 The key to integrating education with production in the Nepalese  context is non-formal education, which is increasingly becoming a standard  component of development projects in our hill areas. With Unesco's assistance,  our Ministry of Education and Culture is operating a pilot project on Education  for Rural Development in Seti one of the country's 14 zones. The valuable  insights gained from this project are already being utilized iri several other  development programmes as well. Non-governmental agencies working under the  Ministry guidelines have reported impressive results in their own non-formal  education programmes, in which training in practical skills is imparted  simultaneously with literacy and numeracy.
16.14 Peripheral problems like high drop-out rates, absenteeism and class  repetition, together with the pressing needs for teaching aids and post-literacy  materials, are being studied by educational planners and policy-makers and steps  are being taken to overcome them. The Draft Programme for 1988-1989 reaffirms  Unesco's commitment to continuing supporting Member States wishing to carry out  integrated plans aimed at improving the quality of education, particularly by  creating a learning environment which is conducive to preventing e6ucational  wastage. This commitment, it is expected, will be beneficial to current Nepalese  efforts in this direction.
16.15 His Majesty's Government has proclaimed primary education and func-  tional literacy as basic needs and embarked on a policy of providing 'Education  for all'. The projected results of these efforts are to achieve a 100 per cent  enrolment rate at the primary-school level and to increase substantially the  literacy rate for the entire population by the end of this century. This attempt  is in coriformity with Unesco's emphasis in its 1988-1989 programme on mobilizing  the efforts and resources needed to eradicate illiteracy in all regions of the  world by the year 2000.
16.16 Together with decentralization of our political, economic and edu-  cational efforts, Nepal has encouraged the development of indigenous science and  technology. Leadership in this effort has been provided by RONAST, the Royal  Nepal Academy of Science and Technology, which is under the chairmanship of His  Majesty. Our national efforts in science and technology will not realize the  national target of meeting basic needs by the year 200U unless we have a well-  developed information system and very effective communication services. We have  therefore attached great importance in the Seventh Plan to the need to develop  the infrastructure and to provide services ir1 the field of science and tech-  nology information. We acknowledge the support of Unesco in respect-. of infra-
243    structural development. We believe that Unesco's programmes for strengthening  national and regional information systems and networks within the framework of  UNISIST, ASTINFO and the General Information Programme will contribute to one of  the most important aspects of the development efforts of the Member States.
16.17 The Nepalese Government has also endeavoured to increase mass awareness  about the importance of physical fitness and has, in many ways, encouraged or  assisted in the promotion of sports and physical education among the children  and youth of the nation'. Physical education is introduced as an integral part of  the curriculum in schools as well as in higher education. Unesco is expected to  lay more emphasis than now on this area by identifying it as a major programme  of greater priority.
16.18 Of particular concern to Nepal as well as to other countries in the  Himalayan region is the unrelenting pressure on our natural resources. Our  agro-based economy and our heavy reliance on firewood and fodder, coupled with  rapid population growth, have led to serious deforestation. The result is that  there is going to be a severe ecological imbalance in this region which cannot  be effectively tackled through national efforts alone. There is a pressing need  for regional and international co-operation. In this context, Mr President, we  highly appreciate the foresight demonstrated by Unesco in giving support for the  establishment in Nepal of the International Centre for Integrated Mountain  Development or ICIMOD. I hope that Unesco's support for ICIMOD will not only  continue, but will be substantially raised by regarding ecological preservation  in this region as one of Unesco's major programmes of high priority. This  involves a higher budgetary commitment for 1988-1989, to which, I presume,  Unesco will give due consideration in view of the immensity of the problem. The  urgency of Unesco's assistance to this area can obviously be perceived in the  light of the gravity of ecological deterioration and the growing inability on  the part of the countries in the Himalayan region to finance imported energy.
16.19 My delegation would also like to express its appreciation of, and to  endorse, the concern shown in Unesco's Medium-Term Plan and in the Draft  Programme and Budget for 1988-1989 for the promotion of culture. We believe this  aspect is one of the prime prerequisites for an international community which  can live in peace, respecting the rights of all. Mr President, Nepal has a rich  culture and His Majesty's Government would like to thank Unesco for its support  in preserving this heritage and protecting our monumental zones, especially  through the Kathmandu Valley Master Plan. We feel that the preservation of our  many monuments, which have been severely ravaged by time, is indispensable in  order to safeguard some of the richest and most ancient architectures in Asia.
16.20 As I have indicated in the above lines, there is a remarkable record of  accomplishment for which Unesco can claim due credit for more than three  äecades. Yet a striking fact remains: the least developed countries are lagging  farther and farther behind.in the pursuit of economic development. This widening  gap' between rich and poor countries will naturally threaten world peace arid  stability. It seems only logical, there€ore, that the world community should  make an ever more concerted effort to assist the developing countries in general  arid the poorest countries in particular. We therefore urge that Unesco should  accord preferential attention to the LDCs in formulating and implementing plans  and programmes.
16.21 In this regard, it is of special interest to quote from the address  made in November last year by His Majesty to the Summit Conference of SAARC, the  South Asian Association for Regional Co-operation. His Majesty said, 'In a word,  it is co-operation which we all seek for our mutual benefit'. Mr President,  these words are as applicable now as they were then. By holding fast to the  principle of mutual goodwill, a constructive approach and a spirit of accomrno-  dation, there is little that can be left unaccomplished by this body. AS a clear  sign of our own commitment to these principles in our regional context, Nepal  offered to serve as the seat for the secretariat of SAARC. Our offer was duly  accepted by the other members and today the SAARC headquarters is in the heart  of Kathmandu.
16.22 Development is a fragile thing, the product 'of concerted efforts by  dedicated individuals working together. The tragic reality of the present is  that, despite our growing capacity to create, it continues to lag far behind our  ability to destroy. Progress built over years, decades and even centuries of  co-operation can be undone today in just an instant. Hence, the Nepalese  delegation makes a renewéd call for world peace. This reality we stubbornly  insist is not only attainable but it is a necessary condition if we are to  survive and flourish as a world civilization. So serious is Nepal's concern for  peace that an amendment to our Constitution lays down that Nepal would strive to  be made a Zone of Peace, on the basis of the proposal first enunciated by our  beloved King at the time of his coronation in 1975.
16.23 Mr President, I would like to reiterate that the principles of Unesco  in promoting development are virtually synonymous with those followed by Nepal  in the fields of education, science , culture preservation and information  dissemination. And we feel privileged to continue participating in Unesco's  efforts to bring about common socio-economic development in the world society.
16.24 Finally, Mr President, I take this opportunity to express our appreci-  ation of the role Unesco's Director-General, Mr M'Bow, has been playing in  promoting the cause of education, science and culture in the developing  countries of the world. And I believe the efforts and activities of Unesco in  helping man to live in peace and raise the quality of life will further expand  in the years to come as well. Thank you.
(17) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Nepal for his statement. I give the  floor to H.E. Mr Andreas Christophides, Minister of Education and Head of the  Delegation of Cyprus.
18.1 Mr CHRISTOPHIDES (Cyprus) :  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the delegation of  the Republic of Cyprus, I wish first of all to congratulate you, Mr President,  on your election to preside over the twenty-fourth session of the General  Conference of Unesco. We are confident that under your objective, wise and  imaginative guidance we will hold fruitful discussions and adopt resolutions  that respond to the aspirations of Member States. You may be sure of the co-  operation of my delegation in making this session a success.
18.2 I take this opportunity to express our deep appreciation to the  Director-General, Mr M'Bow, for all he has accomplished during his term of  office at the head of our Organization and, at the same time, to pledge our full  support to the new Director-General in the difficult task that he will be  undertaking.
18.3 Mr President , Unesco has recently celebrated its fortieth anniversary  and is about to launch its third Medium-Term Plan. The Organization, in moving  towards the end of the twentieth century, is bound to undergo reforms of both  its structures and its methods of operation, which are necessitated by its  immense growth over the last forty years, the diverse pressures ensuing from  this growth and the fact that the current programme and budget is based on a  reduced level of resources.
18.4 Equally, reform is inevitable in order to face the challenge of our  modern world and the difficulties of the future. In embarking on this process,  however, it is imperative that Member States reaftirm their commitment and faith  in the fundamental principles on which Unesco was founded and which constitute  the soundest basis for the promotion of international co-operation within the  Organization.
18.5 We should never forget the simple but profound premise in Unesco's  Constitution: 'since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men  that the defences of peace must be constructed'. In this phrase of Archibold  Macleish lie the philosophy and the raison d'Etre of Unesco, which has been  trying, for over 40 years now, to establish in people's minds defences for peace  through education, science, culture and communication.
18.6 Cyprus, a Member State since its independence, strongly believes that  Unesco is and should continue to be the most appropriate forum for co-operation  in the fields of education, science, culture and information, with the ultimate  aim of promoting peace among the nations of this world. As victims of an  aggressive war, we have to keep faith in the system of international  organizations established after the Second World War to help avoid the terrible  crimes and mistakes that led humanity to the threshold of total disaster.
18.7 This is one among many reasons why we firnìly believe that, while  dealing with world problems in practical, concrete and measurable terms, Unesco  must not abandon its intellectual and moral character.
18.8 The principles of multilateralism and sovereign equality of States  should remain the foundation stones of the Organization. These principles imply
245    that we will continue working in a spirit of solidarity for the promotion of  Unesco's goals, and that decision-making will be based on the concepts of  equality, democracy and equal voting rights of States, regardless of their size,  political, social and economic system and culture. This concept should also  apply to the decfsion-making process in Member States themselves, all. of whose  citizens should be guaranteed the fundamental freedoms and basic human rights  set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
18.9 These basic principles should not be ignored under any circumstances if  we want to work for the fulfilment of Unesco's ideals and objectives.
18.10 May I, Mr President, express our appreciation of the realistic and  comprehensive presentation of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1988-1989 by  the Director-General. My delegation is in agreement with the general structure  of the budget as outlined therein. Nevertheless, I should like to make some  general remarks to contribute towards the formulation of the general policy of  the Organization for the next two years and the foreseeable future.
18.11 The promotion of general access to education, the struggle against all  forms of illiteracy and' the strengthening of the role of the natural sciences  and the social and human scierices are priorities we fully endorse in view of the  increasing impact of scientific and technologi,cal development on man and  society, an impact that sometimes transcends and undermines proper social  control. These consititute a major problem with which we should be concerned.
18.12 We continue to believe that the Organization, in response to the task  of intellectual co-operation assigned to it by its Constitution, should contri-  bute to 'a continuing study of present world problems, so as to create a greater  awareness of the common destiny which now unites-individuals and peoples alike'.  In this respect, laying emphasis on the interactions between culture and  development and on the methodological research relating to the inclusion of  cultural parameters in development pians and projects is a wise and sound  approach. The Cyprus Government, which is now in the process of finalizing its  first Five-Year Plan for cultural development, appreciates the importance of  this approach.
18.13 Economic development is not an end in itself but a means towards  ameliorating the quality of life. Thus economic development cannot be designed  or realized without parallel cultural development. At the heart of any social  system is man and time, and cultural development is concerned essentially with  human beings and the way they use their ever-increasing leisure time.
18.14 We tend to consider the activities under Majos Programme II, 'Education  for all', as amorig the most important of Unesco's functions, not only because  the development of education in general is an important objective per se, but  also because education, directly or indirectly, is intimately connected with and  complementary to almost all the other major. programmes. For this reason, we  endorse the recommendation of the Executive Board that priority be given and  increased resources be allocated to programmes in the field of education.  L.
18.15 The concept of 'lifelong education for all' is rightly conceived as the  general framework for the various activities on education in our modern world.  In this context, the idea of the democratization of education can be realized by  securing equality of opportunity and promoting interrelationship, continuity and  complementarity of the various forms and levels of education without decreasing  in any way the level and the quality of the education provided for the young and  for adults alike.
18.16 The proclamation of an International Literacy Year and the initiation  of substantial related activities on that occasion will strengthen the worldwide  strategy for the elimination of illiteracy by the year 2000.
18.17 Young children, adults, the disadvantaged and disabled groups of the  population must be given increasing attention and efforts be made to improve and  exparid their education. In my country, despite the tragic problems caused by the  Turkish invasion and the occupation of the northern part of the island since
1974, we have largely succeeded in our objective of ensuring education for all.  Education in Cyprus is compulsory up to the age of fifteen apd free in the  primary, secondary and tertiary levels. Transportation for students from poor  rural areas, refugees and low-income families is free; special education is  provided for the disadvantaged and programmes are conducted for the very limited  number of illiterates and for the education of adults.
18.18 Having thus largely solved most of the problems of the quantitative  akpect of education, our efforts are now aimed at the further improvement of the  quality of the education we provide which will affect the social, political and
7  economic life of the island and in our case even the very existehce of our  Republic. In this respect we should, therefore, be continuously concerned with  the general examination of philosophical, ethical, sociological, economic and  cultural demands to which education must now respond so that, without forgetting  our past, that would be the capital sin, we prepare the younger generation for  life and work in the twenty-first century.
18.19 We appreciate the important role which technical and vocational edu-  cation is playing in fdrthering economic and social development and in tackling  the problem of youth unemployment.
18.20 Cyprus, having last Monday formally signed the customs union agreement  with the European Economic Community, appreciates even more the emphasis placed  in Unesco's relevant programme on the establishment of closer links between  training institutions and industry and the attention paid to specific areas of  training and research such as quality control, standardization and micro-  electronics.
18.21 The social, cultural and ethical impact of the new technologies should  be seriously studied. We would, therefore, like to support the proposed research  and training activities concerning these issues.
18.22 At the same time we firmly believe that the planning of development  should have human beings at its centre and that activities should be directed to  promote endogenous development.
18.23 We further wish to express our interest in the proposed seminar on the  impact of migration on young second-generation migrants from the standpoint both  of the preservation of the cultural identity of the country of origin and of the  adaptation of such migrants to the socio-cultural life of the host country.  There are as many Cypriots living abroad as there are in Cyprus. The Cyprus  Government is involved in projects which provide forms of schooling for such  young second-generation migrants and cultural centres for adults.
18.24 Mr President, we have special interest in the activities of Unesco  under Major Programme XI, 'Culture and the future'. Culture is rightly conceived  as an 'essential basis both of social continuity and social progress'. Yet today  grave dangers threaten the cultural heritage of marikind.
18.25 In Cyprus, we are pressed by circumstances to give increased priority  to the safeguarding of our cultural heritage and the assertion of our cultural  identity. We are at the stage of finalizing our first Five-Year Plan of cultural  development. In the frame vf this comprehensive cultural policy, my government is  undertaking a large programme for the conservation of monuments of all cultures  and periods, which constitute the unfailing witness of the island's historical  past and civilization.
18.26 We are, therefore, in favour of any programmes and activities that are  essential to the preservation and presentation of the cultural heritage.
18.27 Unfortunately, in the part of Cyprus now under Turkish occupation,  which constitutes the 37 per cent of the Island's territory, the cultural  heritage is systematically destroyed, in order to extinguish any evidence of the  Island's cultural identity. The systematic plunder and destruction of our  cultural heritage that commenced immediately after the Turkish invasion in 1974  is continuing on dn increased scale. Particularly systematic is the destruction  of frescoes and wood-carved iconostases and icons of the churches. Churches and  monasteries are still plundered, frescoes and icons destroyed or removed,  ancient cemeteries and archaeological sites are excavated illegally while  archaeological objects, together with icons and wood-carved objects are looted,  illicitly exported and sold abroad.
18.28 I reported on these matters at the twenty-third session of the General  Conference. In the intervening two years, we have indisputable evidence that  this intolerable process is still continuing on an increased scale. At the same  time, a big effort has been launched to change the demographic structure of the  occupied part of my country by importing over sixty thousand settlers from  Turkey.
18.29 The World Decade for Cultural Development which is about to start is  the proper context for the reinforcement of Unesco's efforts for the safe-  guarding of the cultural heritage and for the return of cultural property,  illicitly exported, to its countries and peoples of origin. A case in point is  the Elgin marbles which should be returned to Greece. I take this opportunity to  welcome the proposals by the Minister of Education of Greece yesterday for the  establishment of an international centre in Athens for the study of -.Hellenism
247    and of the Greek language, especially with reference to its importance in  today‘s science and logic. And, at the same time, I note with Satisfaction his  proposal concerning the Alexandria Library. We would, as part of the Alexandrian  world which was based on the civilization which we inherited, be ready to co-  operate in the context of the proposal of the Minister of Greece.
18.30 Mr President, more than forty years have passed since the establishment  of the United Nations system. In those days oi optimism, the nations, after  their unprecedented experience of the Second World War, were willing and eager  to reach beyond national frontiers for international co-operation and under-  standing. Unesco has had from the beginning a unique role to play in the United  Nations system, in that it is concerned with the intellectual and moral problems  of the world expressed in concrete terms in a huge international standing  project to foster education, science, culture and communication.
18.31 This has not been an easy role. How could it be? We have been  repeatedly frustrated and disappointed, but we always try not only to put in  perspective the difficulties faced by the Organization but at all times to keep  in mind the benefits bestowed on mankind by the existence of Unesco.
18.32 Mr President, in concluding, may I express the hope that a spirit of  mutual understanding, goodwill and unity will prevail among all delegates and  that this session of the General Conference will be successful in facing up to  its difficult tasks and in making progress towards the achievement of its  objectives. Thank you, Mr President.
(19) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  reached the end of the list of speakers for this morning.  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Cyprus for his statement. We have now  INSCRIPTION D’UN NOWEAU POINT A L’ORDRE DU JOUR/  INCLUSIGN OF A NEW ITEM IN THE AGENUA  INSCRIPCION DE UN NUEVO PUNTO EN EL ORDEN DEL DIA  BKJIIO’CIEHiIE HOBOïO ïíYHKTA B IIOBECTKY aH5í  J k Y I  J9+ 3 J+ ~ I ~ J I   #-+%?Fi €I F!JA32%
(20.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Committee, which held its second meeting this morning.
(20.2) Following a discussion, the General Committee decided, in accordance with  Rule 36.l(c) of the Rules of Procedure, to recommend that the General Conference  include a new item in its agenda, namely item 18.1, entitled ‘Change of name and  Statute of the United Nations Joint Inspection Unit’. Inclusion of this item was  requested by the Director-General, who has prepared for this purpose document
24 (21106, which is available in this room. Allow me to point out that, in accordance  with Rule 14.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Conference must take a decision on this  subject by a two-thirds majority of the members present and voting.  I should like to submit to you various recommendations of the General
(20.3) Nevertheless, if there are no objections, I shall take it that this  modification proposed by the Director-General is approved a& that the General  Conference unanimously endorses the recommendation of the General Committee.
(20.4) There being no objections, I consider the proposal approved.  CONSTITUTION DU GROUPE DE REDACTION ET DE NEGOCIATION  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DRAFTING AND NEGOTIATION GROUP  CONSTITUCLON DEL GRUPO DE REDACCION Y NEGOCIACION  COCTAB TPYiKIbI II0 PEAAKTHPOBAHHD EI COTJIACOBAHHD  +.&.Il, 4iWl & J  p  & 3% t%G & r%j 4\ tB
(21.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Secondly, I should like to inform you about the establishment of the Drafting  and Negotiation Group. With the authorization of the General Committee, the  Nominations Committee examined the proposals made by the various electoral groups  regarding the composition of the Drafting and Negotiation Group. On the basis of the  Nominations Committee's report, the General Committee decided this morning to  recommend that the General Conference elect as members of the Drafting and Negotiation  Group for the twenty-fourth session of the General Conference, the 25 Member States  proposed by the Committee, in accordance with the criterion of equitable geographical  distribution indicated in paragraph 84 of document 24 Cf2, approved by the General  Conference.
(21.2) I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of the Conference who will inform  you of the proposed membership.
22. Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et  Messieurs, la composition du Groupe de rédaction et de négociation, telle  qu'elle a été établie par le Comité des candidatures et recommandée par le  Bureau à l'approbation de la Conference générale, est la suivante : pour le  groupe i : République fédérale d'Allemagne, France, Italie, Norvège et Suisse ;  pour le groupe II : République démocratique allemande, Yougoslavie et Union des  républiques socialistes soviétiques ; pour le groupe III : Brésil, Cuba, Mexique  et Trinité et Tobago ; pour le groupe IV : Inde, Japon, Pakistan et Sri Lanka ;  pour le groupe V A : Benin, Gabon, Kenya, Malawi et Mali ; et, enfin, pour le  groupe V B : Algérie, Jamahiriya arabe libyenne, Liban et Soudan. Ces renseigne-  ments figurent également dans le numéro d'aujourd'hui du Journal de la Confé-  rence générale. Merci.
(23.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Ladies and gentlemen, if there are no objections, I shall take it that the  Conference endorses the proposals of the Nominations committee with regard to the  composition of the Drafting and Negotiation Group.
(23.2) The proposal is approved.
(23.3) It will be for the Drafting and Negotiation Group itself, at its first  meeting, to elect its Chairman, acting of course on the basis of the recommendation of  the Nomiriations Committee.  ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX DE LA SESSION (suite)  ORGANIZATION OF THE WORK OF THE SESSION (continued)  ORGANIZACION DE LOS TRABAJOS DE LA REUNION (contiñuación )  OPïAHM3AIJiItI PABOTbI CECCEIiI (IIPOflOJDKEHiIE)  (eL) ij&l Jk1  k.4 W W w R F  ( @ 1
(24.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Finally, the General Committee considered it necessary to inform delegates  that the Delegation of Japan, in a letter to the President of the General Conference  dated 22 October 1987, has requested a debate on items 11.1, 11.2 and 11.3 of the  agenda.
(24.2) You will recall in this connection that, at its third plenary meeting, the  General Conference endorsed the Executive Board's recommendation that these three  items should not be the subject of a debate, provided that no del'egation requested  otherwise, and that 12 noon on Friday, 23 October 1987 was set as the deadline for the  submission of any request to this effect.
(24.3) In accordance with the wish expressed in the letter from the Delegation of  Japan this morning, these three items will therefore be taken up by the General  Conference, within the framework of the Administrative Commission.
(24.4) The meeting is adjourned.  La séance est levée a 13 h.15  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.15