Cinquième séance plénière
22 octobre 1987, à 10 h 15  Président : M. PUTZEYS ALVAREZ (Guatemala)  puis : M. NEUGEBAUER (République démocratique allemande)  Fifth plenary meeting
22 OKTX6pñ 1987 r. B 10.15  Hpencenarenb: r-H IIYTCE8C AJibBAPEC (haTeMana)
133    DEUXIEME RAPPORT SUPPLEMENTAIRE DU PRESIDENT DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES  SEGUNDO INFORME COMPLEMENTARIO DEL PRESIDENTE DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION DE  POUVOIRS  SECOND SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will now start today's work, but  before continuing with the general.policy debate, I give the floor to Mr Luckhoo,  Chairman of the Credentials Coaunittee, who will present the report.
2. Mr LUCKHOO (Guyana), Chairman of the Credentials Committee:  Thank you, Mr President. Since I presented my last report, provisional  credentials have been received from Colombia and Equatorial Guinea. In accordance  with the authorization given to me by the Credentials Committee, I propose that  these credentials be accepted, subject to later presentation of credentials in  due form anã that, in the meanwhile, the delegations of Colombia and Equatorial  Guinea be allowed to take part in the work of the present session of the General  Conference. Thank you, Mr President.
(3.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  hos presented.
(3.2) If there are no objections, I consider the prgposal to be approved.  I thank Mr Luckhoo, Chairman of the Credentials Committee, for the report he  RECOMMANDATION DU BUREAU CONCERNANT LA RESERVE POUR LES PROJETS DE RESOLUTION  RECOMMENDATION BY THE GENERAL COMMITTEE CONCERNING THE RESERVE FOR DRAFT  RESOLUTIONS  RECOMENDACIQN DE LA MESA RELATIVA A LA RESERVA PARA LOS PROYECTOS DE RESOLUCION  PEKOMEHAAUHH IIPE3MAMYMA B OTHOUEHMM PE3EPBA Qn5i IIPOEKTOB PE30JIIûUHfi  ü1,IJiJl üLc&AL dl &¡+ri ;*L+ +LI S-S;  k&E%lFA $3x$%&&& &@ìx
4. El PRESIDENTE:  delegados.  Tiene la palabra el Secretario de la Conferencia que informará a los  (:j The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  to give to delegates.  I now give the floor to the Secretary of the Conference who has information
5. Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et  Messieurs, je voudrais appeler votre attention sur une décision qui a été prise  par le Bureau de la Conférence générale lors de sa premiere séance hier et dont  il est d'ailleurs rendu compte dans le Journal de la Conférence générale en date  d'aujourd'hui. Cette décision concerne la réserve d'un million de dollars pour  les projets de résolution. Le Bureau, sur la suggestion du Directeur général, a  décidé de faire sienne la recommandation du Conseil exécutif, contenue dans le  paragraphe 167 de sa décision 126 EX/4.1, tendant à inclure cette réserve,  jusqu'à concurrence d'un million de dollars, dans le montant total proposé pour  les prévisions budgétaires des Titres I à VI du document 24 C/5. Le Bureau a  aussi décidé de remettre 5 plus tard l'examen des moyens de financement de la  i 34
5  - __ -.__.  réserve et décidé d'inviter les présidents des Commiiiions du programme et de la  Commission administrative à se réunir au plus tôt pour étudier les modalités de  répartition du montant de la réserve. Merci Monsieur le Président.
(6.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary has given us  information on one of the subjects that the General Committee dealt with yesterday. I  now submit the procedure suggested yesterday to the Conference for approval.
(6.2) There being no objections, I consider it to be approved.  POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuación)
06CYXAEHME BOnPOCOB OEUIEh IIOIIMTMKM (IlPOnOJIXEHME)  ((+) LUI LUI LsL
(7) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  H.E. Mr Peter 0100 Aringo, Minister of Education and head of the delegation of Kenya.  We shall now continue with the general policy debate. I give the floor to
8.1 Mr ARINGO (Kenya):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,  distinguished delegates , ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Kenyan  delegation, it is my honour, Mr President, to join other heads of delegations in  congratulating you on your election to this most distinguished and challenging  position on the occasion of the twenty-fourth session of the General Conference  of Unesco. Given your wealth of experience, I have every confidence that you will  guide the deliberations of this session to a successful end.
8.2 We are gathered here, Mr President, to discuss, inter alia, the Draft  Programme and Budget for 1988-1989 which, as we all know, covers the last bien-  nium of Unesco's second Medium-Term Plan. My delegation has examined document
24 C/5 with keen interest, and we are satisfied that it has been prepared meticu-  lously and with close reference to the second Medium-Term Plan. In this regard we  should like to extend our sincere congratulations to the Executive Board and to  the Director-General and his Secretariat for a job so expertly done. While  leaving comments on specific issues to be made by members of my delegation in the  appropriate programme commissions, let me take this opportunity to make only a  few general remarks.
8.3 First, Mr President, we generally agree with the programme resolutions  which we consider to have been thoughtfully framed and addressed to important  issues of international co-operation within the competence of the Organization.
8.4 We note with satisfaction that, in line with the second Medium-Term  Plan, emphasis has continued to be placed on those programme actions that are  aimed at fostering regional and inter-regional co-operation, and that education  remains a pivotal programme of Unesco.
8.5 Mr President, education is a fundamental right of every member of our  societies. This is evidenced by the tremendous effort being made by most  countries to expand facilities in order to increase opportunity of access to edu-  cation for their populations. The urgency of this undertaking is even greater in  the developing countries where education is a crucial investment for economic  growth and for social development. But, apart from the need to expand edu-  cational opportunities and democratize education, the urgent question that is  becoming increasingly obvious is this: What type of education should we provide;  how relevant is the education we are providing to the lifelong needs of our youth
135    and to the developmental requirements ot our societies? Even though we are  investing heavily in the expansion of facilities, it has become quite clear that  it is not merely a question of accessibility per se that is involved, but rather  a question of relevance and quality.
8.6 Mr President, it is this concern that has prompted many of us to review  our education systems in order to meet the challenges of the fast changing tech-  nological environment. My country found it necessary to make such a review of her  education system and we are now implementing what has become popularly known as  the 8:4:4 system of education. This system is designed to make education a truly  beneficial heritage for our youth by relating it to the practical needs of life.  We have therefore made a venture into designing a new education programme with  this objective in view.
8.7 This change is not without problems. As our experience is already show-  ing, its implementation is a challenge that calls for total national commitment  and international co-operation. It is here that we should like to call upon  Unesco to assist Member States by giving the development of relevant and  vocation-oriented education priority consideration similar to what has been given  to the eradication of illiteracy. It would be opportune to give such consider-  ation, especially now that preparations are under way for the third Medium-Terni  Plan.
8.8 Mr President, my delegation appreciates the recognition that Unesco has  given to educational management as an important component of the educational  package. Indeed no system of education, however soundly conceived, can hope to  succeed in its objectives if it is not properly managed by sufficiently trained  personnel. In this regard I believe I will be echoing the sincere sentiments of  the sister countries of the African region that are now participating in the  Project for Regional Technical Co-operation in Training and Research in Edu-  cational Planning and Administration. This project, which was launched by Unesco  in 1984 and aimed at promoting regional co-operation, is now being implemented,  and we are looking forward to its successful completion.
8.9 With regard to science, Mr President, my delegation maintains that  Unesco provides the best mechanism for international co-operation and for  correcting the imbalances in the development of science and technology that exist  in our world today. Sir, my delegation appreciates the effort that has been made  by Unesco over the years to promote international and regional co-operation in  scientific and technological research and the assistance given to Member States  for the development of their own infrastructures. My delegation urges that Unesco  intensify this effort with .a view to responding, in particular, to the needs of  the developing countries.
8.10 We are encouraged in this regard by the conclusions of the Conference of  Ministers Responsible for the Application of Science and Technology in Africa,  held recently in Arusha, the United Republic of Tanzania. In that conference, the  need for more extensive application of the results of scientific and technologi-  cal research to development in Africa was underlined. With the emphasis that our  countries are now placing on rural development and the need for more responsive,  technological support in that regard, the resolutions of the CASTAFRICA II con-  ference could not have come at a more appropriate time.
8.11 Mr President, the implementation of these resolutions and other related  activities in the region will call for a more solid resource base. For this  reason, it is our suggestion that resources be made available as a matter of  urgency to elevate and strengthen the Regional Office for Science and Technology  for Africa (ROSTA) , both in personnel and funding, to a level similar to that of  its sister office in Dakar. This will enable ROSTA to monitor effectively the  implementation of the CASTAFRICA II resolutions and to respond more readily to  the increasing needs of the region in the area of its assignment.
8.12 We are further encouraged, Mr President, by the proposal to extend to  the polytechnics a programme of co-operation similar to that of the African Net-  work of Scientific and Technological Institutions (ANSTI). This is another timely  recognition of the strategic significance of these institutions to our develop-  ment and of the fact that there is enough potential for co-operation in training  at this level between the countries of the region. It is our hope that the Unesco  technical mission currently being undertaken will come up with practical recom-  mendations for an early implementation of the proposal.
8.13 Mr President, while commending all these efforts, allow me to single out  a constraint that continues to hamper the development of scientific and techno-  logical research capacity in the developing countries. It is the shortage of  high-level personnel in this field. This shortage is brought about by lack of  facilities in most of our countries for the training of such personnel.
8.14 In the case of my country, Mr President, this shortage is still affect-  ing the teaching and research activities of the universities and other insti-  tutions of higher learning. We believe that this is not a probleni unique to  Kenya. We further believe that many other Member States would join us in calling  upon Unesco to continue its assistance in this area, through the extension of the  fellowship programme, especially for the very specialised scientific and engin-  eering disciplines for which most developing countries may not at the moment have  the capacity to train locally. In the same spirit, Mr President, we call upon the  Member States that have the high-level training capacities to continue assisting  those that are in need through offers of places in their institutions, as a  gesture of our continuing co-operation in this important area.
8.15 Mr President, my delegation appreciates the work of Unesco in the area  of cultural preservation. The volume of research that has been initiated, the  assistance to Member States in the collection and preservation of aspects of  their cultures, and the international campaigns launched for the protection and  preservation of the world cultural heritage attest to Unesco's adherence to its  original mission on behalf of mankind. We all have a responsibility to support  the Organization in this important task by strengthening national efforts to  preserve the rich and diverse creations of our civilizations and to maintain them  as the continuing source of inspiration to future generations and the symbolic  testimony of our respected roots. Equally, we have responsibility to preserve  nature's unique features that have lent scenic beauty to our environments and  which must truly form part of the common heritage of mankind. We appreciate  Unesco's initiative to foster international co-operation in cultural preservation  and, in particular, the setting up of the World Heritage Fund, following the 1972  Convention concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage,  which my country is in the process of ratifying.
8.16 But, Mr President, we are aware that, with modern forms of civilization  and technological developments competing for the same limited resources, the work  of protection and preservation of the cultural heritage is not going to be easy.  The natural ecosystems are giving way to farms and other forms of development;  buildings that were once a masterpiece of architectural design have fallen  because the sites are needed for other things. This may be happening in complete  disregard for the natural and cultural values that are represented by such  features. There is therefore an urgent need for greater public awareness and  appreciation, in all countries, to protect and preserve man's cultural and  natural heritage. Public education must remain a primary component of the preser-  vation effort, with a view to generating greater awareness of the inherent values  of this heritage. It is with this realization in mind that my Government, through  the Ministry of Culture arid Social Services, initiated the promotion of cultural  shows throughout the country.
6.17 On communication, Mr President, we need not emphasize the fact that it  is the key to understanding and co-operation in a world of diversity. It is in  fact the sensory nerve of all our development endeavours. But, above all, it is a  right, like all other forms of human rights, because denial of the right to com-  niunicate, or to be communicated to, is no less a denial of the democratic rights  that we have come to cherish. We therefore strongly support every effort that  Unesco is making to assist Member States in the development of their communi-  cation and information infrastructures and in the training of information and  communication personnel.
8.18 It may be recalled, Mr President, that the imbalances in the world com-  munication industry led to the call for a new world information and communication  order, and to the subsequent establishment of the International Programme for the  Development of Communication. Kenya is pleased with the performance of this  intergovernmental body whose activities have already benefited many Member  States, including mine.
8.19 As a gesture or our appreciation, Mr President, and within our resource  constraints, my country has decided to make a contribution to the budget of IPDC  for the 1988-1989 biennium.
8.20 Having made these remarks concerning the programmes of Unesco, allow me  now, Mr President, to reiterate our unreserved support for the principles of  international and multilateral co-operation which this Organization was founded  to facilitate and promote. We firmly believe that in a world that has become so  small, and in which our societies have become so intricately interdependent, the  need for greater co-operation could never be felt more. Unesco derives its origin  from a global conception seeking to create a mechanism of co-operation for  humanity as a whole. In the four decades of its history the Organization has  grown in size and some of the problems it is now going through are, iri our view,  the strains of its growth. They are a serious test of faith in the original  principles on which the Organization was founded and a pointer to the chaos of a  world that would emerge with their abandonment. '
8.21 Mr President, we reiterate that those noble principles must still be  held supreme and remain the revered frame of reference in our attempts to Solve  the problems of this body. We further reiterate that there can be no substitute  for Unesco, an Organization that has done so much to foster international CO-  operation. Our world would be poorer without it. Let US preserve it. If there are  problems, let us solve them from within. Thank you, Mr President,
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  H.E. Mr René Monory, Minister of Education and head of the delegation of France.  I thank the head of the Kenyan delegation for his statement and invite
10.1 M. MONORY (France) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président  du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les  délégués, permettez-moi en qualité de chef de la délégation de 1'Etat hôte de  l'Unesco de vous souhaiter, au nom du Gouvernement et du peuple français, la  bienvenue à cette vingt-quatrième session de la Confdrence générale de l'Unesco.  Je forme le voeu que cette session soit marquée, malgré les difficultés que nous  pouvons rencontrer, par la qualité des discussions, l'efficacité de nos travaux  et le souci constant de faire progresser concrètement les causes qui nous ras-  semblent ici.
10.2 Monsieur le Président, je vous félicite de votre élection et vous  exprime toute la confiance de la délégation française. Je salue particulièrement  en vous l'ancien ministre de l'éducation nationale du Guatemala, et son ambas-  sadeur auprès de la République française. Je sais que votre compétence et vos  qualités éminentes n'ont rien à envier à celles de vos prédécesseurs, et notam-  ment, à celles du Professeur Nikolaï Todorov qui a présidé à Sofia, à la satis-  faction générale, une conférence particulière'mnt dense.
10.3 La France est fière d'abriter, depuis les origines de l'Organisation,  le Siège de l'Unesco à Paris. Nous savons également quelles responsabilités lui  incombent, de ce fait, à la fois en qualité de pays hôte et d'Etat fondateur de  l'organisation. En prenant part personnellement à la cérémonie commémorative du  quarantième anniversaire de l'Unesco, le 4 novembre dernier, le Premier ministre,  M. Jacques Chirac, a voulu, encore une fois, et de façon claire, manifester  l'attachement qui lie la France à la seule institution universelle dont la  nature soit intergouvernementale et la vocation intellectuelle, selon la formule  employée par vous-même, Monsieur le Directeur général.
10.4 Je ne voudrais pas revenir dans le détail sur toutes les réalisations  de plus de quarante ans de coopération internationale dont l'Unesco peut légiti-  mement s'enorgueillir. Ce bilan, nous l'avons dressé, l'an dernier, quand a été  célébré le quarantième anniversaire de l'Organisation. M. Jacques Chirac a  rappelé, 6 cette occasion, "l'oeuvre impressionnante" accomplie au fil des ans  et "l'inépuisable vitalité" de l'organisation. Qu'il me soit permis, toutefois,  de dégager quelques lignes de force de cette histoire de l'Unesco.
10.5 La première réussite, c'est un nombre de réalisations majeures dont  beaucoup sont largement connues : le sauvetage des monuments et de bien d'autres  trésors du patrimoine universel, les grandes campagnes d'alphabétisation, les  grands programmes scientifiques, pour ne citer que ces exemples auxquels l'Unesco  doit les aspects les plus positifs de son image et qui correspondent à la voca-  tion qui est fondamentalement la sienne. En second lieu, j'évoquerai, bien  qu'elle soit moins spectaculaire et publiquement moins soulignée, la contribu-  tion apportée par l'organisation à l'amélioration de la situation des Etats  membres dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture, au  renforcement des mécanismes de cooperation, à la multiplication des occasions de  rencontre et de dialogue, à l'avancée des savoirs, des idées, de la connaissance,  à l'ouverture de nouveaux champs d'intervention, au rang desquels la communica-  tion et l'informatique. Enfin, j'évoquerai le rôle de catalyseur, visant à  susciter des actions ou en multiplier les effets, rôle non moins remarquable,  même s'il n'est probablement pas aussi facile à mesurer et n'est pas toujours  perçu : un certain nombre de grandes questions sont aujourd'hui abordées dans  nos pays d'une façon nouvelle grâce à l'Unesco. I1 faudra bien qu'un jour, l'on  rende justice à l'Organisation pour son oeuvre incommensurable, pour son "for-  midable labeur", pour reprendre une fois encore, les termes de notre Premier  ministre.
10.6 Je voudrais, à cette Occasion, me tourner vers vous, Monsieur le Direc-  teur général, et vous dire que nous avons la certitude que l'avenir saura rendre
5  justice au travail que vous avez accompli en une période particulièrement diffi-  cile. Devant les attaques dont vous avez 6th l'objet, vous avez su défendre  votre gestion et votre vision de l'Unesco et aider l'organisation à faire face,  tant bien que mal, à une crise sans précédent, en donnant 6 certains programmes  et à quelques grands projets une impulsion souvent decisive.
10.7 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais dire avec une certaine solennité que  tous les acquis et toutes les réalisations qui sont à mettre à l'actif de  l'organisation n'auraient pas la même resonance si l'Unesco ne devait pas tou-  jours progresser dans le sens de son objectif premier, celui de l'universalité.  Ce retour à l'universalité de l'Unesco reste l'une de nos principales préoccupa-  tions. Sans elle, comment imaginer que l'Organisation puisse, demain, tenir le  discours fondamental qui doit être le sien et comment penser qu'elle puisse  disposer de tous les moyens intellectuels et matériels indispensables à son bon  fonctionnement ? Accepter, sans réagir, la diminution de sa représentativité,  comme c'est actuellement le cas, pourrait engendrer une dynamique négative qui  ne manquerait pas de susciter une déstabilisation de plus en plus grave de  l'organisation et d'entraîner un risque sérieux de nouvelles défections : le  retour a l'universalité qui est la seule voie permettant de réaffirmer les  principes qui ont présidé à la naissance, puis à la croissance de l'Unesco.
10.8 J'ajouterai que la reduction des moyens est elle aussi préoccupante et  dommageable : si les ressources de l'Unesco demeuraient aussi réduites ou s'ame-  nuisaient davantage, les premiers à en souffrir seraient, au-delà de l'organisa-  tion même, ceux qui subissent le plus l'inégalité du partage des richesses. Nul  ici ne saurait y consentir. Car, ne nous leurrons pas c'est, à terme, l'apport  de la recherche et des nouveaux savoirs qui ferait un jour fatalement défaut. I1  importe donc d'inverser la tendance, de favoriser un climat nouveau et de déve-  lopper de nouvelles initiatives pour retrouver l'universalité.
10.9 La France, quant à elle, demeurera fidèle 6 l'Acte constitutif qui doit  être intégralement respecté et appliqué avec encore toute ia fermeté et ia  rigueur souhaitables. L'organe souverain, cette Conférence générale qui nous  réunit aujourd'hui, doit, d'abord, être à même d'exercer pleinement ses respon-  sabilités en fixant avec netteté l'ensemble des orientations, au terme de débats  substantiels, laissant au Conseil exécutif, qui en est l'émanation, le soin de  suivre, en pleine conformité avec les textes fondamentaux, l'application défini-  tive de ces décisions.
10.10 Des réformes ont été entreprises depuis plusieurs années, dans un  climat parfois tendu, pour améliorer le fonctionnement de l'organisation. Beau-  coup a deja été fait. I1 serait heureux qu'un nouvel apaisement permette de  poursuivre sur cette voie, d'aller plus loin encore avec l'accord de tous et  pour le bien de tous.
10.11 Deux préoccupations majeures doivent nous inspirer en cette période :  le souci de la cohésion et la recherche de la coherence. La cohesion, d'abord :  i l  importe, en effet, que l'Unesco redevienne le lieu du dialogue par excellence  et que tout ressentiment, toute fracture, soient écartés. Le pays du Siège fera  tout son possible pour y contribuer, en apportant son plein appui au nouveau  Directeur general qui sera élu dans quelques jours. L'universalité, c'est bien  cette cohésion, fruit du consensus et de l'apport de tous sans exception. Mais  elle ne va pas sans une certaine cohérence, car l'un des reproches faits aux  activités de l'Unesco, c'est souvent d'être trop dispersées, avec le risque  inévitable d'éparpillement des efforts au détriment de l'efficacité. Cette  critique n'est pas récente. Elle était déjà exprimée dans les années 50. I1  convient d'y veiller, car cette constante peut traduire une tendance permanente  et toujours presente. La recherche de la coherence, terme que l'on doit préférer,  selon nous, à celui de concentration, devrait nous inciter à définir de nouvelles  approches, pour tirer le meilleur parti des moyens limités qui sont les nôtres.
10.12 I1 ne s'agit pas de sacrifier des acquis, importants pour les uns ou  pour les autres, mais d'en assurer la mise en valeur et la synthèse. Cette  démarche sera celle de la France lorsqu'elle présentera ses suggestions pour le  prochain Plan à moyen terme de l'organisation. Ne pourrait-on d'ores et déjà  envisager que le programme biennal 1988-1989 s'emploie à nous y inciter ?
10.13 Nous avons été sensibles à une évolution des débats depuis quelques  mois au sein des organes directeurs de l'Unesco. La volonté de conciliation  semble s'être renforcée et les débats sur les programmes ont pris un caractère  plus substantiel. Puisse cette nouvelle tendance se poursuivre au cours de cette  session et aider l'Unesco a parfaire son action en redressant son image. A cet  égard, qu'il me soit permis de féliciter le Secrétariat pour avoir tenu compte  des demandes de la Conférence générale et du Conseil exécutif en améliorant la  présentation et la lisibilité des documents. Ceux-ci restent toutefois d'un  accès encore difficile pour les partenaires naturels de l'Unesco que sont les
139    communautés intellectuelles et professionnelles. C'est là un point que nous  devons garder à l'esprit 6 l'avenir car la coopération avec ces communautés est  un élément vital pour 1'Unesco.
10.14 La reconquête de l'universalité va également de pair avec le resserre-  ment des liens avec les communautés qui constituent les relais naturels de  l'action de l'Unesco à travers le monde. L'attachement des milieux iritellectuels  et professionnels, des scientifiques, des penseurs, des créateurs et des cher-  cheurs & l'Unesco a d'ores et déjà permis de maintenir, partout dans le monde,  une fidélité à l'Organisation. C'est une des missions fondamentales de l'organi-  sation, par-delà les clivages et les polémiques qui ont pu occulter ce qui, à  nos yeux, demeure l'essentiel.
10.15 Les efforts que vous-même, Monsieur le Directeur général, avez déployés  en ce sens, méritent d'être soulignés. Sachons bien que sans l'activité des  éducateurs, des savants, des chercheurs, des techniciens, des artistes et des  professionnels de la communication, l'Unesco ne saurait atteindre ses buts.
10.16 Rassembler les compétences des milieux éducatifs, scientifiques et  culturels, faire de ceux-ci des partenaires actifs, c'est très directement la  tâche des commissions nationales, auxquelles je veux rendre hommage, autant que  celle de l'Unesco. Et c'est aussi, il faut le souligner avec force, la vocation  des organisations non gouvernementales et notamment celle des grands conseils  scientifiques. I1 est capital que le dialogue se poursuive en toute clarté et  avec une confiance bien méritée entre l'organisation et les différents parte-  naires qui concourent à son rayonnement.
10.17  mi lieux  sources  La grande chance de l'Unesco, c'est de ne pas être isolée de tous Ces  oÙ se brassent les idées, s'élaborent les initiatives, se situent les  d'inspiration, c'est également de bénéficier de ces divers réseaux qui  amplifient et multiplient les effets de son action. L'Unesco ne peut espérer  poursuivre et renforcer les activités traditionnelles et les réalisations Pas-  sées et à venir qui correspondent aux fonctions reconnues par l'Acte Constitutif,  si l'organisation n'arrive pas à maintenir et à renforcer l'appui que lui  apportent les milieux intellectuels et professionnels par l'intermédiaire de  leurs représentants. Le rôle de l'Unesco est d'être, dans cet esprit et avant  tout8 un pôle d'attraction pour les scientifiques, pour les éducateurs, pour les  créateurs, qui doivent pouvoir tirer parti, dans leur propre région, des expé-  riences menées à bieii par l'organisation.
10.18 Si les objectifs et les missions de l'Unesco demeurent, le monde sur  lequel l'organisation doit agir est en constante évolution et s'oriente vers une  complexité croissante. Les problèmes tendent à s'interpénétrer et il paraît de  plus en plus difficile d'isoler une quelconque question sans négliger d'impor-  tants aspects qui forment, . e n  quelque sorte, son environnement. On est ainsi  amené à distinguer des "constellations" d'éléments plutôt que des Sujets auto-  nomes. Mais il faut éviter que des discours généraux ne découlent de ce Constat.  Plus la complexité et l'interdépendance des problèmes apparaissent comme des  données de base, plus les idées reçues et les hypothèses de naguère sont remises  en cause, et plus s'impose la nécessité de ne pas recourir à des explications  globales. L'utilité de stratégies particulières qui s'appuient sur un réel  renouvellement méthodologique se fait jour.
10.19 Cette démarche n'exclut pas, tout au contraire, la solidarité univer-  selle qui devrait être la traduction éthique de l'interdépendance : elle conduit  à cerner de plus en plus près la diversité des situations et les SOlUtiOnS à  découvrir. Dans cette perspective, que constate-t-on ? Que les éVOlUtiOnS les  plus significatives, les plus manifestes, qui se répandent partout dans le  monde, touchent essentiellement les domaines de compétence de l'Organisation,  ensemble ou séparément. Dès lors, la préservation des acquis passe nécessairement  par le renouvellement des perspectives et rejoint ainsi le rôle mobilisateur que  doit jouer l'Unesco à l'intérieur de son champ de compétences. L'Unesco devra  nous aider, demain plus encore qu'aujourd'hui, grâce au partage de nos eXPé-  riences et de nos réflexions, individuelles et nationales, à résoudre nos diffi-  cultés communes.
10.20 Vous permettrez, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, au Ministre  français de l'éducation nationale, d'évoquer brièvement ici l'exemple de la  situation française dans l'enseignement primaire et secondaire. La France se  fixe pour objectif d'assurer à tous les jeunes leur place dans une Société  marquée par des exigences et des évolutions de plus en plus complexes. Elle  s'est donnée pour première priorité l'élévation du niveau de formation, afin de  rendre notamment les jeunes capables d'une participation effective et harmonieuse  à une société dans laquelle la maîtrise des savoirs et des techniques, des  moyens d'information et de communication connaît une importance de plus en plus  décisive pour l'épanouissement de l'individu, comme pour la prospérité de la  collectivité.
10.21 Chaque région, chaque pays connaît des situations différentes, qui  appellent des solutions propres et cependant, nous sommes tous confrontés aux  effets d'un même phénomène, qui est celui d'une crise de l'éducation et de la  formation. La France entend aussi mettre l'accent sur la formation de base, qui  ne peut méconnaître, au-delà des disciplines traditionnelles, le développement  de la technologie et la dimension culturelle, qui sont deux autres composantes  essentielles de notre époque. Nous devons nous attacher à la réussite Scolaire,  qui est un objectif essentiel pour les sociétés contemporaines dans le monde  industrialisé. Nos efforts portent sur le renforcement des soutiens individua-  lisés dont les élèves ont besoin. Enfin, nous voulons moderniser les formations  et cela implique notamment de revoir les relations entre le secteur éducatif et  le milieu économique, les liens entre l'éducation et l'entreprise.
10.22 Mais je voudrais insister plus particulièrement sur le défi que l'avenir  de l'éducation pose plus généralement : cet avenir ne peut plus être seulement  l'affaire des responsables politiques et de certains spécialistes. C'est un  avenir qui appartient à toute la société et qui appelle la participation de tous  les partenaires potentiels. Je pense que cette observation est commune à bien  des situations et que l'Unesco, en s'employant à recenser et à analyser des  constats de ce type, pourra demain continuer d'accomplir sa mission de manière  satisfaisante, et exercer littéralement, son rôle exemplaire.
10.23 L'Unesco est indispensable dans un monde en mouvement, parce que les  domaines qui sont les siens, de l'éducation aux sciences, de la culture à la  communication, sont essentiels pour l'avenir de l'humanité, parce que les parte-  naires qu'elle réunit doivent s'employer & coopérer pour donner aux évolutions  et aux changements des implications positives, un sens pour l'homme, et parce  que les préoccupations de ceux qui la fondèrent au lendemain des cataclysmes qui  avaient bouleversé le monde restent plus que jamais actuelles.
10.24 Rappelons ici cette formule de l'Acte constitutif : "Atteindre graduel-  lement, par la coopération des nations du monde dans les domaines de l'éducation,  de la science et de la culture, les buts de paix internationale et de prospérité  commune de l'humanité en vue desquels l'organisation des Nations Unies a 6th  constituée, et que sa Charte proclame". Le message des fondateurs, au nombre  desquels figure René Cassin, dont nous venons de célébrer le centenaire de la  naissance, l'esprit de la Déclaration des droits de l'homme et du citoyen de
1789 et celui de la Déclaration universelle des droits de l'homme de 1948, nous  invitent à faire de l'Unesco l'instrument d'un nouvel élan universel au bénéfice  des générations futures qui, par-delà nos doutes, nos malentendus ou nos diffi-  cultés, qu'elles oublieront, je l'espère, seront les héritières de nos engage-  ments comme de nos choix. Nous ne devrions, me semble-t-il, n'avoir aucune  perspective plus déterminante que celle-là. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le  Président.
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the French delegation for his statement. I now give the  floor to H.E. Mr Marut Bunnag, Minister of Education and head of the delegation of  Thailand.
12.1 Mr BUNNAC; (Thailand) :  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates and observers, ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure,  Mr President, on behalf of the Thai delegation, to congratulate you and the other  members of the General Committee on your election to your important respective  offices of our Conference. My delegation is confident that your wisdom, experi-  ence and perseverance will guide our deliberatiops to a successful conclusion.
12.2 Mr President, all of us attending this General Conference are fully  aware of the historical significance of the present session. This Conference is  being held at the time when, after four decades of operation, Unesco has come to  a crucial turning-point , when the Organization's universality is being  endangered, and the international economic crisis is negatively affecting multi-  lateral co-operation. Amidst these circumstances, however, there is a discernible  collective will to overcome, and there have been sustained efforts to improve and  reform. Thus Unesco has been able to carry on with its programmes despite  financial constraints. Many difficult problems remain to be solved, yet it is  hoped that the reform process which has started will serve as the foundation for  the future strengthening of our Organization. The Thai delegation wishes to com-  mend the Executive Board and the Secretariat, including the Regional Offices, for - their courage, co-operation and dedication in 'making necessary adjustments on
141    behalf of the Member States anä our Organization. The Thai delegation believes  that if the same spirit further prevails, Unesco will emerge revitalized and  ready to meet the challenges of the year 2000 and beyond.
12.3 Mr President, the current biennium has been an eventful period for all  connected with- Unesco. The fortieth anniversary, celebrated both at Headquarters  and in Member States, provided an excellent opportunity for governments and  peoples worldwide to reflect on Unesco's achievements and its mission. The Inter-  national Year of Peace brought home to all of us the Organization's very funda-  mental purposes, namely, building the defences of peace in the minds of men and  working towards the common welfare of mankind. The system of evaluation of  Unesco's activities, approved by the Executive Board and implemented by the  Secretariat, enabled all concerned to take a fresh look at the achievements,  impacts and problems relating to the programmes in the current Medium-Term Plan.  Most importantly, the wide-ranging consultations on the third Medium-Term Plan,  held at all levels, have provided us with unprecedented opportunities to exchange  frank and free views as to Unesco's future directions.
12.4 The Thai delegation is proud to say that we have actively participated  in all the above activities. We are also pleased to note that, despite the much  publicized 'crisis', academic and intellectual circles in our country are still  supportive of Unesco's noble causes and its fundamental activities.
12.5 The commemoration of the fortieth anniversary of Unesco is a good  example of our reason for optimism. This event was organized in Thailand with  specific purposes: to reveal to the Thai people in all walks of life the many  useful programmes that Unesco has undertaken; to bring them into direct contact  with education, the sciences and culture; and to let them see how these pro-  grammes relate to them and their life. To these ends, a series of large-scale  activities was organized with the co-operation of Unesco's Office of Public  Information, the Regional Office in Bangkok, and the ACCU in Tokyo, while private  and governmental agencies in Thailand rendered generous support, in both cash and  kind. The highlight was a large multi-media exhibition, entitled 'Development  through knowledge', depicting activities in Unesco's fields of competence. The  exhibition was opened by Her Royal Highness Princess Chulabhorn, an active  scientist and also a recipient of Unesco's gold Einstein medal. A children's  painting competition, students' concerts and dances, and a neoliterate essay  contest were also part of the exhibition. Indeed it was a big 'open market for  knowledge', using multiple media to attract shoppers, housewives, out-of-school  youth, as well as students and scholars. It recorded 50,000 visitors in a two-  week period.
12.6 Mr President, I have described at great length the above activities to  emphasize the important lesson we have learned: that, in spite of the current  atmosphere of crisis, Unesco's programmes, when properly selected and presented,  are appealing to the general public.
12.7 Mr President, may I turn to the Draft Programme and Budget for the next  biennium. The Thai delegation appreciates the improved presentation of document
24 C/5. We see it as having a unique stock-taking, completing and consolidating  function in respect of many of the programmes and as paving the way for the next  Medium-Term Plan. We sincerely doubt if it is a proper time to begin any new  activities.
12.8 The Thai delegation continues to support further decentralization to the  regions for reasons of economy and so as to respond better to the actual situ-  ations of the Member States. As for Asia and the Pacific, many regional pro-  grammes have been well developed, such as APEID and the various networks for  basic sciences. For example , the networks for microbiology and the chemistry of  natural products in South-East Asia and Pacific have been very cost-effective -  entailing no administrative cost, yet attracting extra-budgetary funding, thereby  multiplying Unesco's small seed money. These programmes enhance Unesco's fund of  goodwill and should therefore be encouraged to 'ensure continued regional plan-  ning, implementation, and evaluation.
12.9 Unesco's 'Education for all' programme continues to receive our whole-  hearted support. This major programme, in its context of lifelong education, is  inseparable from and therefore must be supported by 'Educational policies' and  'Education, training and society'. In all these programmes, we believe that  Unesco's role is mainly a catalytic one, to encourage and inspire, to provide  information and training, and to mobilize a broad movement in all parts of the  world. But it remains a major and basic responsibility of the Member States con-  cerned to muster the national and local political will and self-reliance, and to  ensure that every man and woman, every boy and girl in the country receives the  proper kind of education which will allow him or her to live a healthy, useful  and dignified life in society.
12.10 The Thai Government has launched a nationwide literacy campaign, which  has enabled us to achieve a satisfactory rate of 89.5 per cent literacy in 1986.  However, we realize that the rate of relapsing into illiteracy is very high among  rural neoliterates; we therefore plan to extend compulsory education from 6 to
9 years. This extension is being undertaken experimentally in 38 poor rural  provinces, and, when fully implemented, it will not only ensure a higher rate of  functional literacy and prevent relapsing, but will also provide free continuing  education to supplement the out-of-school education being provided by the govern-  ment throughout the country.
12.11 Mr President, Unesco's programmes in the fields of science and technol-  ogy have always been supported by and enjoyed the active participation of the  scientific community in our country. Particular emphasis is laid on the entire  environmental sciences programme and their relation to Man. Thailand believes  that sustainable development in the future must include the ability to conserve  and manage the national resources vis-à-vis the promotion and development of  human resources. The Thai delegation therefore continues to support the Man and  the Biosphere Programme together with other international scientific co-operation  under Major Programme X. We hope this programme will be carried over to the next  Medium-Term Plan.
12.12 In culture, my delegation is happy to report that the Sukhothai Histori-  cal Park Project, which the Director-General launched in 1979 as an international  campaign, is due to complete its first Master Plan at the end of this year.  Seventy per cent of its conservation and development programmes and activities  was funded from the government's budget; 10 per cent from the private sector in  Thailand: and 20 per cent from the international community. The inauguration  ceremony has been planned as part of the nationwide celebration of His Majesty  the King's 60th birthday in December this year, to be preceded by Unesco's Inter-  national Working Group Meeting and an international symposium on Sukhothai ,  jointly organized by the Thai Government and Sophia University of Japan. A  special token of appreciation will be presented to Unesco's Director-General at  the inauguration ceremony. We hope that Sukhothai can serve as a model inasmuch  as the Unesco international campaign has promoted a climate of international  solidarity and generated local support and donations.
12.13 In this connection, I am pleased to announce that the Thai Government  signed the Instrument of Acceptance for the Unesco Convention concerning the  Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage last August. We look for-  ward to closer co-operation with Unesco in this field.
12.14 The Thai delegation would like to express once again its support for the  World Decade for Cultural Development. In our present National Economic and  Social Development Plan (1987-1991) , cultural development is an important com-  ponent in the overall human resource development scheme, which includes edu-  cational, moral , ethical , and cultural development. A number of local and  national activities are under way. Thailand therefore stands ready to co-operate  with Unesco and other Member States in the implementation of the Decade. We fully  appreciate, however, that cultural policies and structures may differ in other  countries and therefore look forward to exchanging views with other delegations  concerning the role of Unesco in the implementation of the Decade.
12.15 Mr President, the Thai delegation is pleased that there will be a  separate debate on the preparation of the Medium-Term Plan in Commission I, where  we hope to take an active part. Here we only wish to emphasize the importance of  the idea raised at the various regional and interregional consultations that it  is time to rethink the concept of development. From our own experience in the  past five national development plans, we have learned that true development does  not mean economic and industrial growth at the expense of social, cultural and  moral values. We agree with the founding fathers of Unesco that the development  of the 'mind' is most important and most fundamental. The Thai delegation there-  fore appreciates the Executive Board's initiatives in authorizing an in-depth  study on the evolution of the concept of development, which is indeed a thought-  provoking study. This document should be taken into consideration in our dis-  cussion on the Medium-Term Plan both during and after this General Conference  session.
12.16 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the present General Conference  session will mark a very important milestone in the history of our Organization  as it is here that we will be appointing the next Director-General of Unesco.  This agenda item has attracted the widest attention in the world. The large  number of candidacies received testifies to the welcome fact that all concerned  are committed to the cause of Unesco and wish to make available to the Organiz-  atiori the services of their chosen candidates. All of us here must be deeply  aware that the choice we will be making will have significant implications for  the Organization's immediate and long-term future. We all remember that Unesco
143    was created out of the ashes of the Second World War. It was meant to be the  intellectual conscience of the world, where the minds of men and women could  meet, and where peace and the common welfare of mankind could be promoted through  the educational, scientific and cultural co-operation of the peoples of the  world. Recently, whether rightly or wrongly, Unesco has been the subject of some  unkind criticisms, including the question of politicization. The Thai delegation  hopes that, at least in our act of selecting our next Director-General, we will  not allow politics to overshadow our intellectual and professional conscience.  The Thai delegation hopes that this General Conference of Unesco will appoint a  person who has demonstrated an administration and management ability within the  multilateral coyoperation system, who has a deep-rooted interest and sound back-  ground in Unesco's related areas, and who has the courage, the commitment and the  vitality to work for the extremely difficult mission of Unesco.
12.17 Before I conclude, may I, on behalf of the Thai delegation, reiterate  our support for Unesco and convey to all delegations our goodwill and readiness  to co-operate during this General Conference and after. Thank you very much,  Mr President.
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the Thai delegation for his statement. I now give the  floor to H.E. Mr Kunio Takaishi, Vice-Minister of Education and head of the delegation  of Japan.
14.1 Mr TAKAISHI (Japan) (statement delivered in Japanese, English trans-  lation provided by the delegation):  Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf  of the delegation of Japan, I should like, first of all, to congratulate you,  Mr President, on your election as President of this session of the General Con-  ference. I hope most sincereìy that, under your outstanding and impartial leader-  ship, this session will be extremely meaningful and successful. I should also  like to express my most sincere thanks to the members of the Executive Board and  the staff of the Secretariat for their untiring efforts in preparing for this  session, and to welcome Aruba to Unesco as an Associate Member State.
14.2 Mr President, the world is today witnessing increasing interdependence  in many areas. On the other hand, despite the efforts of individual countries,  international organizations, and others, we also see a growing gap between devel-  oping and developed countries and international friction of various kinds. These  developments are, of course, intimately bound up with our goals of world peace  and the welfare of all mankind.
14.3 Unesco has, for more than 40 years, made a very great contribution to  the cause of peace and the welfare of mankind by promoting international co-  operation in the fields of education, science and culture. However, one has to  point out that a number of problems have recently arisen with regard to Unesco,  among them a tendency to excessive politicization and problems relating to man-  agement and administration, which have led, in fact, to the withdrawal of two of  the principal founding members, the United States of America and the United  Kingdom. Not only has Unesco lost its universality; it is also faced with un-  precedented financial difficulties. Japan feels profound concern that such an  abnormal situation may continue, and expresses its earnest hope that this situ-  ation be remedied at the earliest possible opportunity.
14.4 Mr President, Japan has stressed the need for reform of Unesco on  numerous occasions, such as in sessions of the General Conference, the Executive  Board and the Board's Temporary Committee and Special Committee, placing particu-  lar emphasis on (i) programme concentration, (ii) rationalization and stream-  lining of the management and administration of the Organization and (iii) re-  striction of the budget growth. There exists a consensus among Member States  regarding the basic direction for reform of Unesco, based upon the recommen-  dations made by the Executive Board and its Temporary Committee, and Unesco is  now in the process of implementing those recommendations.
14.5 The most urgent task that Unesco now has to accomplish under the leader-  ship of the new Director-General to be appointed at this session, is that of put-  ting those recommendations into practice, with ever-greater efforts in the areas  of management and administration and in the planning, implementation and evalu-  ation of its programmes. With regard to management and adminisration within the  Secretariat, it is particularly necessary to pursue further reform for rational-  ization of the Secretariat's organization, personnel policy and staff placement.
5  I  should^ like, --in th-is~ connection, to propose --&at-a reform plan covering these  matters be worked out either by a committee of experts to be newly established or  by the existing Committees. I believe that success in the reform of Unesco is  crucial for the recovery of Unesco's universality, indeed, for the Organization's  very existence. I should like here to appeal to all Member States, both develop-  ing and developed countries, to do their utmost, working together for the reform  of Unesco in a spirit of mutual understanding and co-operation.
14.6 Mr President, this present session of the General Conference is  entrusted with tasks of great importance for the reform process. The first task  is the appointment of a new Director-General. The second is the preparation of  the third Medium-Term Plan, which is to commence in 1990. The third is consider-  ation of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1988-1989, the last biennium of the  second Medium-Term Plan. I should now like to set forth the basic position of the  Japanese Government regarding these three main tasks.
14.7 Mr President, allow me, first, to refer to the appointment of a new  Director-General. Japan considers it undesirable that any one person should  occupy the post of chief administrative officer of any international organization  for too long a period. In the light of this principle, Japan is in favour of the  amendment to the Constitution proposed by Australia and Canada limiting the  Director-General's tenure of the post to two terms of office. In this connection,  we highly appreciate the courageous decision taken by the Director-General,  Mr M'Bow, at the last Board meeting to withdraw his candidacy by declining the  OAU recommendation in order to give a chance to another qualified person to take  the charge as the Chief Executive of the Organization. We would also like to pay  tribute to the efforts which Mr M'Bow, the first Director-General from the  African continent, has made for the active operation of the Organization, in  particular to the outstanding results he has achieved in the expansion of  Unesco's relations with developing countries.
14.8 At this juncture, I express my earnest hope that Mr Mayor, nominee of  the Board, be appointed as the new Dirctor-General by this Conference with  unanimous support.
14.9 Mr President, let me, next, make some comments regarding the third  Medium-Term Plan. The third Medium-Term Plan should constitute the nucleus for  the reform of Unesco. The present session of the General Conference provides an  excellent opportunity for all the Member States to engage in a direct exchange of  views and observations on the Plan. I have every hope that there will be full  discussion of it both in plenary session and by the various Commissions. In my  view, the following guiding principles should bè borne in mind when preparing the  Plan.
14.10 Firstly, the fundamental character o? the third Medium-Term Plan should  be that of a set of guidelines laying down the basic directions for the work to  be carried out by Unesco, and it should be flexible enough to allow the General  Conference to adjust it in order to reflect therein the changes in the environ-  ment in which Unesco must operate.
14.11 Secondly, the current Medium-Term Plan for 1984-1989 has as many as 14  major programmes, and there has been a marked tendency towards duplication of  work among these major programmes. In view of this, the third Medium-Term Plan  should be constructed on the basis of a very limited number of major programme  areas, such as 'education', 'science' and 'culture', and in accordance with the  objectives and fields stated in the Organization's Constitution.
14.12 Thirdly, Unesco should always bear in mind that what is expected of it  as a member of the United Nations system is the furtherance of international co-  operation in the fields of education, science and culture. Unesco should, ther,e-  fore, explore the question of what contributions it can make towards solving  major world problems in each of those fields. Major programmes which deal with  matters that are too broad and abstract, such as Major Programme I, should not  constitute a column in the third Plan.
14.13 Fourthly, regarding the substance of the third Medium-Term Plan, greater  concentration of activities should be achieved than has been the case in the  current Plan. The criteria for such concentration should be (i) urgency,  (ii) usefulness, (iii) degree of support from Member States and (iv) efficacy.
14.14 Fifthly, the Unesco Secretariat should be reorganized in line with the  major areas of the Medium-Term Plan. Further improvements should also be pursued  with regard to the management and operation of the reorganized Secretariat.
14.15 Mr President, while leaving detailed comments and observations to my  delegation in each of the Commissions, let me now state some basic ideas which I
145    earnestly hope will be considered in the discussions on the Draft Programme anâ  Budget for the next biennium, the third main item at this session.
14.16 Firstly, in the Draft Programme and Budget prepared by the Secretariat,  programme concentration has not, I feel, been achieved satisfactorily, budget  appropriations being made in more or less the same proportions for all programmes  as those made for the 1986-1987 Approved Programme and Budget for which an  across-the-board 30% reduction was made. Under the present very severe financial  circumstances, further concentration of programmes should be pursued more con-  structively in order to utilize effectively the limited human and material  resources available to the Organization.
14.17 When pursuing programme concentration, higher priority should be given  to the following programmes: first, programmes which will contribute to  endogenous development in developing countries, particularly operational and  practical activities for development, such as literacy education, establishment  of the necessary infrastructure, and training; second, intellectual and cultural  exchanges and co-operation which will benefit all the Member States - for  example, international and regional co-operation programmes and the safeguarding  of mankind's cultural heritage.
14.18 On the other hand, in order to comply with the varied requests from  Member States with Unesco's limited resources, some programmes will have to be  deleted or reduced in scale. Such programmes, in my view, are as follows:  firstly, those on which it is difficult to reach a consensus among Member States,  for example, those on disarmament and the rights of peoples; secondly, research  activities of an ideological and abstract character; and thirdly, programmes of  less urgency, typically exemplified by preparation, work for international con-  ventions and recommendations.
14.19 I wish, also, to draw your attention to the fact that in many Member  States, including my own country, the principles of freedom of speech and of the  press make it impossible for the government to interfere with the mass media.  Unesco, as an intergovernmental organization, should bear this point fully in  mind, particularly in connection with its programmes on communication.
14.20 Mr President, as a member of the Asian community, my country has  extended active support and co-operation to various programmes designed for the  region of Asia and the Pacific, for example, the Asian Programme on Educational  Innovation for Development, the South-East Asia Regional Network for Basic  Sciences and the work of the Asian Cultural Centre fpr Unesco.
14.21 Japan has also extended very active support to the United Nations Uni-  versity, the Headquarters of which is located in Tokyo, and will continue to  extend all possible co-operation to the University to assist its further develop-  ment. We earnestly hope that Unesco will intensify its co-operative relations  with the University still further, and that Member States will increase the  support and co-operation they give the University and its various programmes,  including their financial contributions to the University Endowment Fund.
14.22 Mr President, as I have stated, Japan attaches great importance to  assistance to developing countries. Following the first two Medium-Term Targets  for expanding Japan's official development assistance, which were successfully  attained, Japan is now in the process of implementing a new Medium-Term Target  plan calling for doubling ODA in seven years. In addition, by means of the pack-  age of Emergency Economic Measures announced recently, with a view to making a  yet greater contribution to the international community, the following measures  for development assistailce have been decided on and are now being put into prac-  tice: first, advancing attainment of the above-mentioned Medium-Term Target by  two years; second, the recycling to developing countries of more than 20 billion  US dollars in completely untied public and private funds; third, making available
500 million US dollars in non-project-type grant aid to African and other least-  developed countries. In this regard, we welcome the fact that Unesco has been  paying special attention in its activities, to the African region with which it  has fostered a particular relationship. It is the strong desire of my country to  further promote, through Unesco, its co-operation with African countries.
14.23 In the light of the Japanese experience, the most urgent and essential  task for a developing country seems clearly to be that of training manpower, or  to put it more broadly, of educating and training its human resources. I hope  most ardently that Unesco's training activities for developing countries will be  smoothly and effectively carried out, in close co-operation with the Member  States concerned.
14.24 I might add that Japan has been making a considerable contribution, not  only within the framework of Unesco, but also bilaterally, to human resources  i46 '
5  - develÒpment in developing countries , through such programmes as programmes for  exchange of students and researchers , acceptance of trainees , and provision of  the services of experts. I believe that such bilateral co-operation activities by  Japan are clearly in line with the fundamental ideals of Unesco.
14.25 Mr President, Unesco is now faced with an extremely difficult financial  situation, as a result of a reduced regular budget, declining extra-budgetary  contributions from UNDP and other sources, growing expenditure resulting from  exchange rate fluctuation, and declining economic and financial situations in  Member States. In order to deal with such a situation, emergency measures are  needed, in particular, measures that will further reduce administrative expenses.  I believe it is also worthwhile to explore, as a measure to reduce the negative  effects of currency fluctuation, the possibility of drawing up a part of the  Unesco budget in French francs.
14.26 The Director-General's report states that it is estimated that there  will be an enormous budgetary deficit, one in the region of as much as 40 million  US dollars, for the current biennium. Since the Member States, which have to bear  the burden of that deficit, also face acute financial constrairits, I call on the  Director-General, with the greatest urgency, to engage in an unremitting  endeavour to reduce expenditure, as required by in the financial regulations,  though there is little time left before this biennium ends.
14.27 In the light of Unesco's deteriorating financial situation and the  serious concern felt about it by Member States, I hope most ardently that at this  General Conference there will be an active and constructive exchange of views and  deliberation concerning measures to be pursued to overcome the financial diffi-  culty in general and to avoid adverse effects On programme activities in  particular.
14.28 Mr President, it may be said that mankind is today at one of the most  dramatic turning points since the Industrial Revolution. On the one hand, rapid  and remarkable progress in science and technology has produced new challenges for  mankind. On the other, particularly because of advances in communication and  information technology, mankind is now able to communicate by means of communi-  cation satellites and television, synchronous media. This communication and  information revolution is certainly creating conditions conducive to enhancing  mutual understanding among all the countries and nations on earth and $0 foster-  ing the spirit of international co-operation and harmony. Our task is, taking  advantage of this unprecedented technological development, to promote mutual  understanding among nations yet further, through education, science and culture,  and thus to contribute to world peace aiid the welfare of all mankind.
14.29 Unesco is now confronted by an extremely serious situation, one, that  is, I believe, more than anything the result of a lack of adequate communication  among Member States. I hope most sincerely that, reflecting on this fact, all the  Member States, of North and South, East and West, will, in the present session of  the General Conference, return to the founding ideals of Unesco, overcoming their  differences to engage in fruitful deliberations in a spirit of mutual understand-  ing. Only these efforts can lead, I believe, to the earliest restoration of the  universality of Unesco, with participation of all countries in the world. Thank  you, Mr President.
(15) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the Japanese delegation for his statement. I now give the  floor to H.E. Mr Hallward Bakke, Minister of Culture and Science and head of the  delegation of Norway.
16.1 Mr BAKKE (Norway):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, widespread concern about the  accelerating deterioration of the human environment and natural resources led the  General Assembly in 1983 to welcome the establishment of a special commission  that should make available a report on the environment and the global challenge  to the year 2000 and beyond. The report, entitled 'Our Common Future' was pre-  sented to the General Assembly on Monday this week, by Norway's Prime Minister  Dr. Gro Harlem Brundtland in her capacity as President of the Commission. Broad  support has already been given by political leaders and heads of organizations  from all over the world. I am glad to note that this includes Unesco whose  Director-General, in a letter to Dr. Brundtland, has underlined the importance of  the Commission's recommendations for the work of this Organization.
16.2 The report states that the ecological and economic crises that threaten  the very basic life-support systems of the earth challenge governments and people  everywhere to create new approaches to common problems before it is too late. The  first step is the recognition that most of the problems of the ecology and the  economy that we, to a very large degree, have dealt with separately until now are  closely connected and thus require integrated action on a global scale. These  problems range from a poverty that drives one third of humanity to ravage the  environment in a desperate search for a livelihood to a fouling of the atmosphere  that kills forests and lakes and that could raise temperatures, melt polar ice,  flood the world's coastlands and drastically alter agriculture.
16.3 These phenomena do not follow national boundaries but spread their  consequences globally.
16.4 The greatest threat to the environment and to development is war, notes  the Commission. Competition for natural resources and the pressure of poverty and  population growth are serious threats to peace. Scientists agree that a thermo-  nuclear war would destroy much of life on earth. But even limited wars with  conventional weapons cause environmental degradation which may in turn be the  cause of new conflicts. Even more important at present are the enormous global  investments in arms - close to one trillion dollars a year - which deprive the  world of funds desperately needed for constructive purposes.
16.5 In a world ridden by poverty, economic growth alone can offer hope for a  better life for the poor and create the capacity to solve environmental problems.  Economic growth is therefore essential, but it must be sustainable growth. A  growth that meets the needs and aspirations of the present generation without  jeopardizing the future living conditions of mankind.
16.6 In this task we need to breathe new life into the multilateral approach  to problem-solving. There is no alternative to concerted and co-ordinated action.  Sustainable development requires more equal access to knowledge and to resources.  It requires a more equitable distribution - among nations as well as within  nations. The Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP)  has recommended to the General Assembly a consensus draft solution which calls  upon all governments, the United Nations system and other relevant international  organizations to take into account the analyses and recommendations in the report  in determining their policies and programmes.
16.7 Unesco has a long and impressive record regarding studies and programmes  on the inter-relationship between man and the envirónment. This new report, 'Our  Common Future', quite naturally addresses itself to Unesco. In fact, Unesco will  have a pivotal role to play. We here face tasks which touch upon all the major  areas of Unesco's activity. This goes for education which is a pre-condition of  being able to play an active part in shaping society and influencing the quality  of one's own life. This goes for communication: the mass media are becoming an  ever stronger power factor which must be afforded the opportunity to disseminate  factual information freely and independently. And, not least of all, this goes  for the world of researach in which both the social sciences and intensified  interdisciplinary co-operation between the natural sciences can provide us with a  solid foundation for action.
16.8 Environmental measures within Unesco's various areas of work will  together represent a contribution to the strengthening of international soli-  darity; they will provide greater insight into international conflicts and thus  be an important step in Unesco's work for peace in the way in which this aim is  embodied in the Organization's Constitution.
16.9 Environmental concerns are already built into Unesco's Medium-Term Plan  for 1984-1989 and should be a guide in the planning of the Organization's future  activities as well. The process of developing the next Medium-Term Plan for 1990-
1995 provides a great opportunity for Unesco to make a fundamental commitment to  sustainable development.
16.10 How we manage to meet these paramount challenges in the next few decades  can be crucial for the whole future of humanity.
16.11 Mr President, please permit me now to make certain comments in con-  nection with the Draft Programme and Budget for the coming two-year period.
16.12 The proposal indicates willingness to follow up the Member States'  reform proposals. It is more concentrated, places greater emphasis on practical  measures and takes the process of decentralization further. In the main, we  support the recommendations of the Executive Board.  ~-
16.13 I believe that the question of education ought to have a larger place  within Unesco's activities so that the Organization may regain its original  position in this field. The number of people who cannot read or write is increac-  ing, and in this respect more emphasis must be placed on the promotion of  literacy in a broad sense. The right to learn must not be dependent upon sex,  social class, race or religion. Unesco's ideal objective - the elimination of  illiteracy by the year 2000 - should mean increased effort both by the Organiz-  ation and by individual Member States. Let me point out that promoting literacy  among women can have a particularly important snowball effect, since women in  most places in the world have the closest contact with children.
16.14 I refer to the fact that the Nordic countries have tabled a resolution  to strengthen the work of promoting literacy. Norway also supports a proposal for  an International Year of Literacy, which we believe must above all aim at uniting  governments and organizations in a strategy for a large-scale campaign.
16.15 Mr President, respect for internationally codified, individual human  rights and fundamental freedoms is entrenched in the Unesco Constitution as a  prerequisite for peace, security and international understanding. Injustice ana  intolerance on the national level, as well as suppression of the freedom of  expression, the right of the individual to information and communication, are  major causes of international conflicts as well. Basic individual human rights  are violated daily around the world. At the same time, there is a lack of knowl-  edge and information about internationally accepted human rights standards. This  constitutes a major challenge and - dilemma - for Unesco. The promotion and  teaching of human rights have a natural place in Unesco's activities within the  Organization's fields of competence. Unesco should, stimulate and support prac-  tical assistance in this field. In this work it is essential to maintain the  balance between economic and cultural rights and civil and political rights. The  latter are the foundation of the individual freedoms which are the basis for any  democratic society.
16.16 I wish to express the hope that Unesco will continue its work Tor  equality between the sexes. It is with some concern that we have observed a  certain degree of stagnation in this area. On this point I refer to the fact that  the post of co-ordinator for questions relating to women has remained vacant for  over a year. Unesco should make a stronger contribution to removing all forms of  discrimination against women and to ensuring that their resources, insight and  experience are used for the good of society. The strategy should be to incorpor-  ate a female perspective in Unesco's various projects and to encourage more  women's projects.
16.17 Unesco's work on communications questions has developed favourably and  should be able to make a contribution to promoting a better and more balanced  information and communication order. The mass media are becoming an increasingly  significant factor in the development of society. Norway wishes in particular to  support the developing countries' efforts to establish their own communications  and information systems, and will do so through continued contributions to  projects presented by the International Programme for the Development of Com-  munication - IPDC.
16.18 Mr President, Unesco faces grave challenges. In our search for solutions  we must be inspired by a concern for the long-term interests of those in the  world who need Unesco and multinational co-operation the most.
16.19 Throughout the last thirteen years, Norway has had a frank and fruitful  co-operation with Mr M'Bow, the Director-General of Unesco. On this occasion I  wish to extend to you personally, Mr M'Bow, our sincere thanks and gratitude.
16.20 It is my pleasure on behalf of the Norwegian Government to express  support for the nomination of Federico Mayor of Spain as the new Director-General  of Unesco. We are confident that Mr Mayor will do his utmost to strengthen the  Organization and to ensure that all members of the United Nations also are  members or' Unesco. In this work he will have our undivided support. To succeed in  its efforts, Unesco, as all other multinational organizations, is dependent on  unity and co-operation among its members. Let us bear this in mind when we now  move forward to the challenges confronting us. Thank you, Mr President.
(17) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank Mr Bakke, head of the Norwegian delegation, for his statement. I  would like to inform you that the delegation of the Soviet Union has kindly informed  me that its statement is to include the reading of a message from Mr Mikhail  Gorbachev, an exceptional circumstance which will prolong the statement by a few  minutes. I have of course given permission for this, and I hope that’ this decision  will meet with your approval. I now invite H.E. Mr Anatoli Leonidovitch Adamichine,  Chairman of the Commission of the USSR for Unesco, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs  and head of the delegation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, to take the  floor.
18.1 r-H ARAMHUMH (COW3 COBeTCKMX CoqManMcTMsecKMx P e c n y 6 g ~ ~ )   rocnoam ITpencenaTenb, OT coseTcKofi neneraqm R n o 3 n p a ~ n ~ m  Bac c ~ 3 6 p a ~ ~ e ~  Ha   TOT BbIcoKMM nom. YsaxaeMbIe neneram! BenMKa ponb resepanbabIx ~o~cpepe~qafi B X M ~ H M  HauieM  Opra~a~aqsu. IIMeHHo OHM onpenenrrmT rnaBHbIe Hanpasnewix, 061qym JIMHMW nemenbHocTM IOHECKO,  KaK UeHTpa MeXnyHapOUHOrO COTpynHMYeCTBa B CBOeR C@epe KOMiIeTeHqMM.
18.2 Oco6ari OTBeTCTBeHHOCTb JIOXMTCR Ha Hb1HeWIHK)K) CeCCMH). COBpeMeHHbIfi HâM MMP, MMP B3âH-  MOCBR3âHHbIfi, B3aMM03aBMCMMbIM npOXOnMT Yepes TPYRHbIG nepM0n. H O  OnHOBpeMeHHO 3TOT IIepMOn nOnOH  Hanexn Ha nepeMeabr.
18.4 n03MUMR COBeTCKOrO COI03a Ha 3TOT CYeT TOYHO M eMKO OTpaXeHa B 06paIqeHMM, anpeC0BaHHOM  KOH@epeHUMM reHepaJIbHbIM CeKpeTapeM UK KnCC MMxaMnoM CepreeBaYeM rOp6aYeBbIM. nO3BOJIbTe
3aYMTaTb 3TOT TeKCT.  B peiiieHMe np06neM, C KOTOpbIMM CTaJIKMBaeTCS YenoBeYecTBo Ha py6exe XXI BeKa, CBOfi BKJIan  CeHepanbHofi KoH@epeHqae IOHECKO  Cepnewo npmewmym npencTamTenefi rocynapcTB - yqacTHMKoB O p r a ~ ~ 3 a q ~ ~  06-ben~-  ryMaHHbIe qenil, BO MMR KoTopbIx c03na~anacb IOHECKO, - yKpennesIre 6 e 3 0 n a c ~ o c ~ ~  HeHHbIX HauwR no BOnpOCaM 06pa30BaHMñ, HayKM M KYJIbTYpbI.  lIyTeM PaCIiiMpeHMR COTpynHMYeCTBa HapOnOB B o 6 ~ i a c ~ ~  06pa30BaHMX, HâyKM, KYJïbTYPbI -
06peTâIoT Ha HbIHeUiHeM IIepeJIOMHOM py6exe MeXnyHapOUHOrO Pa3BMTMR oco6ym 3HaZIMMOCTb M  r n y 6 o ~ ~ M  C bICJI.  COBeTCKOe PYKOBOUCTBO y6eXneH0, YTO PeIlieHMe ppo6ne~, C KOTOPbIMM CTOJïKHyJIOCb  YenOBeYeCTBO, - BbIXMBaHMñ, 3KOHOMMYeCKOfl M KYJIbTYPHOfi OTCTâJlOCTM DeCRTKOB CTpaH, npa-  BMJIbHOïO MCnOJlb30BaHMñ MHTeJIJIeKTYanbHOïO IiOTeHqMana YeJIOBeYeCTBa,3aIqMTbI IIpMpOnHOfi  cpenbr - npennonaraeT p a m o n p a m e  M y s a x e w e  H ~ ~ ~ B M C M M O C T M ,  coqeanbsoro M nonwTusecKoro  sb160pa HaponoB, 6ana~ca MHTepecoB rocynapcTB. OHO npennonaraeT TaKxe n e ~ o ~ p a ~ m a q ~ m   B  TOM nnaee H ~ S ~ M ~ H M M ~  ponb ~ e x n y ~ a p o n ~ b r x  opra~n3aqwfi ryMaHMTapHoro xapamepa - MeXnyHapOnHbIX OpïaHM3¿3qMfi, CneqManM3MpOBaHHbIX YYpeXneHIrR OOH, BKniOYaR IOHECKO.  KBK npaBMTenbCTBeHHbIX, TBK M HenpaBMTenbCTBeHHSIX. OHM npM3BaHbI YTBepXnaTb B MMpe  TaKyi0 HpâBCTBeHHYH3 aTMOC@epy, iIpM KOTOPOM ïOHKa BOOpyXeHMfi, KOH@POHTaqMR M HaïHeTa-  HMe BOeHHOfi OiIaCHOCTM, MMJIMTâPM3âqMR 06qeCTBa M 06qeCTBeHHOrO CO3HâHMR 6ynyT 6e3ycno~-  HO BOCiIpMHMMaTbCR KaK BbI30B MMPOBOMY COO6qeCTBy, CaMMM OCHOBaM COBpeMeHHOfi I&MBMnM3a-  Ha n0CTMXeHMe 3TOfi 6naropon~oM qeJIM HanpâBJIeHbI BbInBMïaeMbIe CCCP, B TOM YMCne B  K)HECKO, KOHKpeTHbIe npenJi0XeHMR O pa3BepTbIBaHMM IiiMpOKOïO MeXnyHapOnHOrO COTpyn-  HAYeCTBâ B ïYMaHMTaPHOfi M MHTeJIJIeKTyâJIbHOfi 06nac~lix. Mbi - 351 TO, YTO6bI 3Tâ pa6OTa BeJIaCb  nO BCeM HanpâBJIeHMRM, YTO6bI OHâ nepeB0nMnaCb Ha ñ3bIK KOHKPeTHbIX Den, BOnnOU&UKlCb B  nOCTORHHOfi íIpaKTMKe 06MeHOB AOCTMXeHMRMM HayKM M TeXHMKM, qeHHOCTRMM KYJIbTYPbI.  pOnHOï0 aBTOpMTeTa K)HECKO, IIOBbIiüeHMR ee S@@eKTMBHOCTM. Haua íIOJIMTMKa B IOHECKO  OpMeHTMpOBaHa Ha nOMCK peaiiMCTMYeCKMX, B3aMMOnpMeMJIeMbIX PeIHeHMfi Ha OCHOBe CTpOrOïO  YYeTa MHTepeCOB BCeX 6e3 MCKJImYeHMR ï0CynûpCTB - YneHOB OPîâHM3a~MM.  Xenalo BCeM YYâCTHMKaM KOH@epeHqMM YCIìeXa B M X  BaXHOfi p a 6 o ~ e  M BbIpaXaW HaneXny,  YTO IIpMHSITbIe Ha BbICUleM @OpyMe K)HECKO peLLieHM5I 6ynyT CnOCO6CTBOBâTb pâ3BMTMK)  ïyMaHMTapHOï0 COTpynHMseCTBa B MMpe B MHTepeCaX BCeX CTpaH M HaPonoB.  nOHIIMCb»  UMM,’ KaK noKyrueme Ha ocHoBHoe npano YenoBeKa - npaBo Ha X M ~ H ~ .   CoBeTcKMM C o m 3  Renan M 6 y n e ~  nenaTb Bce OT HeCO s a ~ ~ c m q e e  nnrt yKpennewri MexnyHa-
18.7 K ìUM3HM BbI3BaHbI OïPOMHbIe CMnbI, B TOM ZIMCne, K COXâneHM€O, KaTaCTpO@MZIeCKOrO, aIIOKa-  JIMIICMseCKOïO pâ3pyIiieHMR. HeT YBepeHHOCTM, 9TO JIIOnM CyMetoT MMM Pa3YMHO BOCIIOnb30BaTbC5I. HayKa A  TeXHMKa CnenanK KOnOCCaJIbHbIfI PbIBOK BIIepen, a IIOnMTMZIeCKOe C03HaHMe BO MHOïOM OCTaJIOCb Ha nO%nep-  HOM YpOBHe.
18.8 OTCtona - HeO6XOnMMOCTb KPMTRZIeCKM OqeHMTb IIpeXHMi? CTpO$i MbICJIei?, IIOfiTM Ha IIORBMXKM B  IiiKane qeHHOCTe$i, naXe eCJIM OHa AaBHO yCT05inaCb. Ha nepaoe MeCTO OAH03HaYHO AOJIXHbI 6blTb iIOCTaBne-  HbI UeHHOCTM 06~eseno~esec~~e, IIpeXne BCeïO MMP. O T  3TOï0 3aBMCMT 6yny~qee BCeX Hac, BbDKMBaHMe
18.29 Mbi iipMïJIâiLIâeM IIOnyMaTb M O TOM, KâK HaJIanMTb MeXnyHapOnHOe COTpynHMYeCTBO PanM  UCKOpeHeHMR âiIâpTeMnâ M pâCM3Ma, UiOBMHM3Mâ M HaqMOHaJIM3Mä MMPHLIMM CpenCTBaMM, He CTSLBR,  eCTeCTBeHH0, non BOIIpOC iipâB0 HapOnOB BeCTM 6Opb6y 3a CBOe OCBO60XneHMe.
18.31 K)HECKO HaKOnMJIa Cepbe3HbIfi IiOTeHqMaJI HaYYHbIX M HâYYHO-TeXHMqeCKMX MCCJIenOBâHMfi,  IIpaKTMKM KYJIbTYPHOïO COTpyflHMqeCTBa M 0 6 p a 3 0 ~ a ~ u ~ .  BaXHo HBMTM IIyTM M CpenCTBa neCCTBeHHee  MCnOJIb30BâTb er0 CTeM, qT06bI BbIBOnMTb qeJIOBeYeCKMfi OIIbIT M 3HaHMR, B T.Y., KOHeqHO, B Pâ3BMBalo~MXCR  CTpaHaX, Ha CûMbIe IlepenOBbie, IlepCneKTMBHbIe HaIlpâBJIeHMR. bynb 3T0 ~MOT~XHOJIO~MR, MH@OPMâTMKa,  HOBbIe MCTOqHMKM BHePïMM, 3KOJìOïMqeCKaR 6e30nâCHOCTb, 6ynb 3T0 HâyqHOe 060CHOBaHMe o6ecnese~~~  OCHOBHbIX IIpûB M ~ ~ 0 6 0 ~  ’IeJiOBeKâ. bynb 3T0 3aíiJMTâ KYnbTYPHbIX VeHHOCTefi M CâMO6bITHOCTM KâXROïO  Hapona.
18.33  Ha, MbI pâ3HbIe. HO He BOeBaTb X e  M3-3a 3TOï0! 6OJlee TOïO, pa3JIMYMR MeXny CTpaHâMM MOXHO  OnHMM CJIOBOM, MbI 3â KOJIJIeKTMBHbIfi iIOMCK HOBbIX; CBZXMX IIOnXOnOB M K neRTeJIbHOCTM  IOHECKO.
18.34 )&‘MaIo, 6yneT YMeCTHO CKa3aTb 3DeCb HeCKOJIbKO CJIOB O TeX PeBOJIH)i(MOHHbIX il0 CBOeM CyqHO-  CTM npoueccax, KoTopbie npoucxonm cefisac B CoseTcKoM Come. MMeHHo OT HMX MnyT M nepeMeHbi Harueh  BHeLUHefi IIOJIMTMKM, C HMMM OHM OpïaHMqeCKM CJIMTbI.
18.35 B HaM60JIee CMHTe3MpOBâHHOfi @OpMe 3TM npOUeCCb1 MOXHO OXapaKTepM30BaTb TaK: IIOJIMTHqe-  w a x  ~ ~ M O K P ~ T M ~ ~ ~ M R ,  K O H O M M Y ~ C K ~ R  pe@opMa, ynop Ha senosesecKMM @amop.
18.37 B MeXayHaPOnHbIfi IIOJIMTMYeCKMfi CJIOBapb npOYH0 BOLUJIM nBa M3 HMX - IIepeCTpOfiKa M ïJIaC-  HOCTb. H O  3T0 TûKXe - CaMOCTORTeJIbHOCTb M OTBeTCTBeHHOCTb, nMC~MIIJlMHa M MHMqMäTMBâ, IIOJIMTMqeCKâR M  nyXOBHâñ KyJIbTypû. A BCe 3T0 BMeCTe IIOKpbIBaeTCR $)OpMyJIOh «óonbrue COL(MâJIM3Mâ!».
18.38 nOnLIepKHy ocoóo: npMflaBaII 6 0 ~ 1 b ~ u ~ f i  IIpOCTOp 3KOHOMMqeCKMM CTMMyJIâM, eCJIM XOTMTe, JIMY-  HOk lIpenIipMMMLIMBOCTM, MbI OTHfOflb He OTKa3bIBaeMCR OT TaKMX HPaBCTBeHHbIX KPMTePMeB COJJMâJIM3Ma, KâK  COqMûJIbHaR CnpäBenJIMBOCTb, KOJlneKTMBM3M, B3aMMOIIOMOqb. bOJIee TOïO, B HOBbIX yCJIOBMñX OHM IIpM3BâHbI
18.40 OT X O ~ R M H ~  a cBoeM paóoqe~ MecTe no KOHTPOJIR 3a TeM, ~ c n o n b s y ~  m o B a  ïopóaueaa, 9~06~1  iIepecTpofiKa np0nonxae-r MneM OKTR~P~CKO~~ peBonloqm, BonnoI4ae-r npIinuilnbi BHyTpeHHeM  IIpaBMTeJIbCTBO He 3a6JIynMJIOCb.
18.41  M BHeLUHefi IIOJIMTMKM, 3aBeqâHHbIe neHMHbIM. PeBOJIIo4MR COBepLUMJIâCb B MOefi CTpâHe - POCCMM. HO enBa JIM  eCTb B MMpe TBKañ 3eMJIR, TaKOfi Hapon, KOTOPbIe He MCIIbITâJIM M He MCíIbITbIBâJIM 6b1 DO CMX iIOp ee  BO3nefiCTBMe.
18.45  HbIM OnbITOM, er0 IIOBCeMeCTHOM YTBepXneHMM.  IOHECKO AOJIxHa npMHanJIeXaTb neNCTBMTeJIbH0 Benylqañ POJIb B 06MeHe HaYZIHbIM M KYnbTYP-
18.46 Mbi He paccMaTpmaeM IOHECKO KaK none nnñ nponaraHnMcTcKMx M n M  Toro xyxe KoH@poHTa-  UMOHHbIX YIIpaXHeHMfi. MeHbiue JIO3yHïOB, 6on~me IIpaKTMqeCKMX nen. Bpñn JIM RaJIbHOBMAeH cyry6o  nOTpe6MTeJIbCKMfi IIO!JXOlI K MCnOiIb30BaHMIo OpïaHM3âqMM. Hano HakTM OIlTMMâJILHOe COOTHOilieHMe pâ3BM-  TMñ MeXJJYHapO~HOïO MHTeJIneKTyaJIbHOïO COTpynHMYeCTBa M MepOnpMXTMfi no OKa3aHMIo COnefiCTBMri OT-  AenbHblM CTpaHaM. Mbi PâCC‘IMTblBaeM, YTO 3TM MReM HaknyT CBOe OTpaXeHMe B HOBOM nJIâHe DefiCTBMfi  O p r a ~ m a q ~ ~ .
18.47 HeCOMHeHHbI IT03MTMBHbIe pe3yJIbTaTb1, KOTOPbIX noó~nacb IOHECKO. Mbi UeHMM Cylqe-  CTBeHHblk BKJiaLl B 3TM pe3yJIbTaTbI He TOA bKO rOCynapCTB-qJIeHOB, HO M CeKpeTapMaTa OPïaHM3aUMM BO  rnaBe C ee reHepanbHbiM AMPeKTOPOM r-HOM M’EOy.
(18.1) Mr ADAMICHINE (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the  Russian) :  Mr President, on behalf of the Soviet delegation I wish to congratulate you  on your election to your elevated post. Distinguished delegates, the role of the  General Conference sessions in the life of our Organization is great indeed, for they  determine the main directions and the general line of the activity of Unesco as the  centre of international co-operation in its sphere of competence.
(18.2) A special responsibility rests upon this session. Our present-day world, an  interlinked and interdependent world, is going through a difficult period. It is at  the same time, however, a period full of the promise of change.
(18.3) Unesco too is called upon to make its contribution, and possibly a more sub-  stantial contribution than before, to overcoming the problems facing mankind on the  threshold of the twenty-first century.
(18.4) The position of the Soviet Union in this respect is accurately and exten-  sively reflected in the message addressed to the General Conference by the General  Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union by  Mikhail Sergeevich Gorbachev. Allow me to read out the text of his message to you.  ‘To the General Conference of Unesco,  My cordial greetings to the representatives of the Member States of the  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.  The humanistic purposes for whose service Unesco was founded - to con-  tribute to security by promoting collaboration among the nations through edu-  cation, science and culture - are especially significant and meaningful at  the present critical juncture in international development.  The Soviet leadership is convinced that a solution to the problems  facing mankind - survival, the economic and cultural backwardness of dozens  of countries, the proper use of human intellectual potential, and protection  of the natural environment - presupposes equality and respect for the  independence and the social and political options of peoples, and a balancing  of the interests of States. It also presupposes the democratization of inter-  national organizations and United Nations Specialized Agencies, including  Unesco.  In this respect, the role of- international organizations of a humani-  tarian character, both governmental and non-governmental, is irreplaceable.  They are called upon to consolidate in the world the kind of moral atmosphere  in which the arms race, confrontation and the heightening of the danger of  war, and the militarization of society and of social consciousness will
153    älways be perceived as defiance of the world community and the very foun-  dations of modern civilization, and as an encroachment upon that basic human  right which is the right to life.  Concrete proposals put forward by the USSR, in Unesco and elsewhere,  regarding the development of broad international co-operation in the humani-  tarian and intellectual fields are directed towards the achievement of that  noble aim. We should like to see efforts made on all fronts to translate this  aim into actual deeds and make it a constant element in exchanges of scien-  tific and technological achievements and of cultural values.  The Soviet Union has done and will do everything in its power to  strengthen the international authority of Unesco and increase its effective-  ness. Our policy in Unesco is directed towards the search for realistic,  mutually acceptable decisions based on strict consideration of the interests  of all Member States of the Organization without exception.  I wish all participants in the Conference success in their important  work, and hope that the decisions adopted in Unesco's supreme forum will  foster worldwide humanitarian co-operation in the interests of all countries  and peoples.  (signed)
(18.5) Mr President, the life of mankind has always been beset with problems. In  recent decades, however, a contradiction on a qualitatively different scale has  suddenly arisen.
(18.6)  its very physical existence is at risk.
(18.7) Tremendous forces have been called into being, including the ability to cause  catastrophic and apocalyptic destruction. Unfortunately there is no certainty that  people will be able to make sensible use of these forces. Science and technology have  forged ahead, but political consciousness has in many respects remained at the pre-  nuclear stage.
(18.8) Hence the need for a critical assessment of the old way of thinking and a  shift in the scale of values, even if it has been set for a long time. General human  values and, above all, peace must come first. On this depend all our futures and the  survival of civilization on earth.  We are not alone in realizing that the world has reached a stage beyond which
(18.9) And who if not Unesco should take a leading role in shaping new, humanistic  value orientations?
(18.10) A mere 18 months to two years ago the idea of a new thinking seemed to many  to be at best academic speculation. But what a distance we have travelled! Today we  can truly speak, for example, of the elimination of a whole class of nuclear weapons,  namely medium-range missiles and operational-tactical missiles. If the Soviet-United  States accord is carried through to completion, this will be a huge breakthrough,  unique in the whole history of nuclear opposition.
(18.11) The US Secretary of State, Mr Schultz, is in Moscow at the moment. It is no  secret that one of the central questions is that of immediately halving the number of  strategic weapons in close connection with observance of an agreement on anti-missile  defence.
(18.12) There is the possibility that an accord may be reached, and rapidly, on the  elimination of chemical weapons.
(18.13)  possible to halt it altogether, if the other party was willing.
(18.14) On the table of our Western partners lie proposals.for a serious reduction in  conventional forces and weapons based on a concept of reasonable sufficiency rather  than a desire for superiority.
(18.15) I mention this because arms reduction is the best way towards a demilitariz-  ation of thinking, a liberalization of the life of society and the establishment of  economic, social and cultural conditions worthy of human beings.
(18.16) As we know, many viewed the idea of 'development through disarmament' with a  degree of scepticism and some people deliberately sabotaged the United Nations Confer-  ence on that subject. That scepticism has now, we hope, diminished. Disarmament can  being real benefits to the national economies of all States, particularly developing  States.  The USSR's 18-month moratorium on nuclear testing has showp that it would be
(18.17) Here, together with efforts to put an end to unequal terms of trade or, in  plain words, neocolonialist plunder, lies the greatest potential for a solution to  today's acute economic contradictions and imbalances. Including the foreign debt  problem, a time bomb no less threatening than a hydrogen or an ecological bomb.
(18.18) Together with our friends, the socialist countries, we have put forward a  proposal for the establishment of a comprehensive system of international security. It  is based on the experience of the past and contains in a nutshell, as it were, the  political culture of the twentieth century. It should gradually lead to an improvement  in international relations, to a new détente and, ultimately, to a non-nuclear and  non-violent world.
(18.19) Our view is that such a security system should cover all the most important  aspects of inter-State relations - military and political, economic, ecological and  humanitarian.
(18.20) It is worth dwelling on the latter in greater detail in view of Unesco's  specific nature, particularly since these aspects are receiving ever greater attention  in international life.
(18.21) The time has come to act boldly in this area too, with new norms correspond-  ing to new realities.
(18.22) An example of this is the Soviet proposal to conduct a representative forum  in Moscow on humanitarian questions. Its purpose is to take practical decisions that  would really improve people's living conditions, .social protection and political  rights.
(18.23) We invite our Western partners, particularly within the framework of the  European meeting in Vienna, to take up this proposal of ours that is in full accord-  ance with the spirit and letter of the Helsinki Final Act. We shall of course be glad  if Unesco can take part in this meeting in its own way.
(18.24) I also draw attention to the proposal to celebrate through Unesco, as a major  historical and cultural event, the thousandth anniversary of the introduction of  Christianity in Rus.
(18.25) Substantial numbers of our partners in inter-State relations are believers.  They are probably familiar with the verses: 'What man is he that desireth life, and  loveth many days . ..? Keep they tongue from evil, and thy lips from speaking guile.  Depart from evil, and do good; seek peace, and pursue it'. These words, full of common  sense, are particularly relevant today.
(18.26) In his recent article 'The Reality and the Guarantee of the Modern World',  Mikhail Sergeevich Gorbachev proposed the creation, under United Nations auspices, of  a world consultative council bringing together the intellectual élite of the world. It  would be composed of eminent scientists, politicians and public figures, representa-  tives of international social organizations and people active in culture, literature  and the arts, including winners of the Nobel and other world-renowned prizes, and  prominent representatives of the churches.
(18.27) It would not be a bad thing at all if Unesco, one of whose tasks is to secure  the co-operation of the creative intelligentsia, could be involved in this initiative  in such ways as its members may deem most appropriate.
(18.28) And in broader terms, has the time not come for the thoroughgoing elaboration  of a forward-looking programme of co-operation among States designed to consolidate a  humanistic and civilized world? The path to this lies in the universal securing of the  basic rights and freedoms of the individual and the rights of peoples, together with  democratization of the domestic life of States in accordance with their specific  features and their historical experience.
(18.29) We invite reflection on how to institute international co-operation to eradi-  cate apartheid and racism, chauvinism and nationalism by peaceful means, naturally not  calling into question the right of peoples to struggle for their liberation.
(18.30) It seems to us that Unesco has a significant role to play in developing a  world information programme under United Nations auspices to spread the ideas of peace  and make peoples more familiar with one another's lives. What an improvement there  would be in the general atmosphere if we could succeed in ridding information channels  of preconceptions, prejudice and deliberate distortion of facts, and if the mass media  were to contribute to creating the 'partner image' instead of cultivating the' 'enemy  image ' .  .155
(18.31) Unesco has built up a serious potential of scientific and scientifico-  technical studies and a practice of cultural co-operation and education. It is import-  ant to find ways and means of putting it to more effective use in order to place human  experience and knowledge, in the developing couritries as well of course, on the most  advanced and future-oriented footing. This could be in biotechnology, informatics, new  energy sources, ecological security or the scientifically sound guaranteeing of funda-  mental human rights and freedoms. Or again it could be in the defence of cultural  values and the distinctive character of each people.
(18.32) Yes, we are different. But it is not something to go to war about! Indeed,  the differences between countries can be put to mutual use for the sake of inter-  national co-operation.
(18.33) In short, we are for a collective search for new, fresh approaches to  Unesco's activity as well.
(18.34) I think it will be in place here to say a few words about those essentially  revolutionary processes at present taking place in the Soviet Union. It is from them  that changes in our external policies stem, since they are organically merged.
(18.35)  economic reform and reliance on the human factor.
(18.36) What ideas are now the most popular in the Soviet Union?
(18.37) Two of them are now well-established newcomers to the international political  vocabulary: perestroika (restructuring) and glasnost (openness). But self-reliance and  responsibility, discipline and initiative and political and spiritual culture are also  involved. And all this together is covered by the formula: 'More socialism!'.
(18.38) I wish to make one thing clear: in allowing more scope for economic stimuli,  or personal enterprise if you like, we are in no way departing from such moral  criteria of socialism as social justice, collectivism and mutual assistance. Indeed,  in the new conditions these are expected to shine with fresh lustre.
(18.39) The active participation of the individual worker in all spheres of the life  of society is the key to the door of perestroika.
(18.40) From being on top of one's job to seeing that, as Mr Gorbachev has put it,  the government does not go astray.
(18.41) Perestroika continues the ideas of the October Revolution and embodies the  domestic and foreign policy principles bequeathed by Lenin. The Revolution took place  in my country - Russia. But there can be hardly any land in the world or any people  that has not yet been or is not being influenced by it.
(18.42) And when we say that Unesco should become a truly modern and authoritative  organization and that it too could benefit from perestroika, we have a moral right to  do so, as the originators of the concept of restructuring.
(18.44) Above all, as a generator of ideas, as an organizer of the collective work of  the world's best minds and as a nerve centre for protection of the most important uni-  versal values such as peace among nations, natural resources and the environment, the  world treasure-house of culture, the national identity.
(18.451 Unesco should play a truly leading role in the exchange of scientific and  cultural experience and its consolidation everywhere.
(18.46) We do not regard Unesco as a theatre for propaganda or, worse, confron-  tational exercises. Let us have fewer slogans and more action. A purely consumerist  approach to utilization of the Organization can scarcely be regarded as far-sighted.  We have to strike the best possible balance between international intellectual co-  operation and activities for the provision of assistance to individual countries. We  trust that these ideas will be reflected in the new action plan of the Organization.  In a nutshell, these processes can be described as political democratization,  How would we like to see our Organization?
(18.47) The positive results achieved by Unesco are beyond doubt. We value the sub-  stantial contribution to these results made not only by Member States but also by the  Secretariat of the Organization headed by its Director-General, Mr M'Bow.
(18.48) To preserve everything, I stress, everything that is positive and to strive  to achieve greater effectiveness on .the path of renewal although not an easy task is,  in our view, a feasible one. We wish Unesco a healthy future.
(19) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of the Soviet Union for his statement and  i particularly thank him for reading the message from Mr Mikhail Gorbachev, Secretary-  General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union.  (M. Neugebauer, République démocratique allemande, prend la présidence)
20. The PRESIDENT:  head of the delegation of Malaysia.
21.1 Mr ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaysia) :  Mr President, your excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, our Organization  has grown in wisdom, experience and strength in its 40 years of existence. It is  appropriate and timely to assess our achievements at this stage and consider how  we can move closer to our common objective of promoting international peace and  understanding through intellectual co-operation.
21.2 Unesco can take pride in the role it plays in the field of education. It  has made significant strides in the eradication of illiteracy but there is still  much more ground to be covered. Illiteracy still remains one of our foremost  problems. Our efforts in the past have brought about improvements but, in abso-  lute terms, the number of illiterates has actually increased. The rate of pro-  gress is being outstripped by the rate of population growth. The problem of the  growing number of illiterates is compounded by that of school drop-outs, and  these drop-outs may soon lapse into illiteracy, thus partly nullifying previous  efforts.
21.3 The full task of educational renewal is ever1 more extensive. It is  necessitated by the increasing rapidity of change in our social, economic and  technological environment. The inertia inherent in educational systems cannot  deflect us from the need continually and vigorously 'to revise curricula, rewrite  textbooks, retrain teachers, upgrade the capability of education managers and  re-equip our schools and laboratories to keep their content responsive to the  changing and demanding needs of our society.
21.4 In Malaysia, we have just begun to bring about these changes. We intro-  duced the New Primary Curriculum in 1982. We aim to provide sound basic education  through mastery of the 3Rs and, most importantly, through ensuring the overall  development of man. Our educational priority is to foster the moral, ethical and  social values that form the necessary foundation upon which the potential of the  whole human being can grow and flourish into useful citizenship.  I now give the floor to H.E. Mr Anwar Ibrahim, Minister of Education and
21.5 The International Conference on Eãucation has formulated useful  strategies and recommendations for the development of education at primary and  secondary levels. At its next session it will focus attention on post-secondary  and higher education, the latter being an area which is of particular signifi-  cance to developing countries. A number of developing countries depend on indus-  trialized nations to assist them in the area of higher education and training. As  long as facilities and expertise are lacking, this dependence will continue, but  in recent years the flow of students to many industrialized nations has been  seriously curtailed by a sharp rise in fees as well as the tightening of quotas.  We must call upon the governments of the developed countries to examine this  question and we must persuade them to reverse their policies so as to allow  access to study opportunities in their countries. This is not just a case of the  developing countries passively accepting the easy option of sending students to  traditional centres of higher education abroad. It is evident that all developing  countries are earnestly trying to develop and expand their own facilities in  higher education, but higher education and training are both costly and time-  consuming.
21.6 Traditionally, Mr President, education receives the major share of  Unesco's programme and budget. I am glad to see this has been maintained in the  Draft Programme and Budget for 1988-1989. The second major element in the pro-  gramme budget is science. I am happy to note that, despite financial constraints,  the allocation has been maintained roughly at current levels. The rapid advance  of science and technology, however, mostly taking place in the developed nations,  continues to widen the gap between developed and developing countries. Unesco has  played an important part in tackling this problem and it must continue to be
157    active in its endeavours to narrow the gap in sc-ientific know-how and to achieve  a genuine transfer of technology and a free flow of scientific information.
21.7 Considering the importance of research and development in fostering any  and all indigenous scientific and technological activities, the allocation for  this category in the Draft Programme and Budget appears to be inadequate. Unesco  should re-examine its priorities in the science sector to increase the emphasis  on research and development.
21.8 While the role of the natural sciences is appreciated, the importance of  the social and human sciences has not been given equal attention in many develop-  ing countries. Unesco should be able to play a significant role in training  personnel from the developing countries in social science, research and docu-  mentation through its programmes of international co-operation.
21.9 In the field of social concerns, I hardly need to emphasize the import-  ance and urgency of focusing attention on the problem of drug trafficking and  drug abuse that is becoming rampant worldwide and that saps human energy and  resources. We need to tackle this scourge on two fronts. Within the school  system, education must include the need for greater awareness about the menace of  drug-taking. The public at large needs to be educated about drug abuse and there  must be supportive programmes for the rehabilitation of addicts. These edu-  cational endeavours must go hand-in-hand with effective international measures  against drug trafficking. In Malaysia, we take the campaign against drug abuse  very seriously and co-operate actively in all international programmes against  drug abuse. Unesco has an important role to play in the struggle to eradicate  drug trafficking and drug-taking.
21.10 In the sphere of communication, we also face a gap needing emphasis on  the reverse flow of information. I regret that in the Draft Programme and Budget  there seems to be over-reliance upon the use of experts from the developed  countries. Malaysia is of the view that greater encouragement should be given to  the development of local expertise and the utilization of local specialists in  Unesco's programmes. It is not the intention to displace experts from developed  countries completely, but due recognition ought to be given to the utilization of  expertise available in developing countries. To derive maximum advantage from the  development of modern communication and technologies, developing countries need  every assistance in the areas of research and training. A key area for assistance  from Unesco would be in the development of data base!! for developing countries so  as to facilitate a more systematic and efficient gathering and storage of  information.
21.11 Malaysia is of the'view that the current imbalance in the flow of infor-  mation between the developed and developing countries is counterproductive, a  long-term threat to the objective of Unesco itself: the attainment of inter-  national understanding and peace. The ability of the developed nations to  generate and disseminate vast quantities of information, especially in the print  and electronic media, enables them to dominate the developing nations. The  imbalance saps the indigenous cultural vitality of the developing nations. Our  call must be for balanced exchanges, reciprocity in communication, for a will-  ingness on the part of the developed nations to listen to and accept information  and communication from developing countries.
21.12 We have become used to the fact that agronomists and ecologists see  diversity as essential to the stability and sustainability of an environment. We  seldom consider that the same could be true of our human environment and that it  requires just as much care as active and practical endeavours to ensure that we  reap the benefits of diversity. Without balanced information flows, mutual  respect and the willingness to listen, we do run a serious risk of falling into  narrow-minded nationalism, suspicion and mistrust.
21.13 Mr President, next year Unesco will launch its World Decade for Cultural  Development. This is an appropriate vehicle with which to spread a worldwide  knowledge of the positive aspects of cultural diversity and link them with the  practical measures towards bridging the communication gap. But our culture is not  only a thing of the past; it is also our future. Developing countries have drawn  upon their cultural heritage as a foundation for national integration and devel-  opment in attaining national identity. Our task is not one of passive preser-  vation, nor self-serving cultural chauvinism, but of constructive synthesis  through which the potential of science and technology, modernity and industrial-  ism may be imbued within each cultural tradition, renewed and enriched to give  meaning to the life of future generations, rather than consisting of a hankering  for a lost and distantly appreciated museum relic.
21.14 Unesco would do well to consider initiating activities in this direction  to give incentives and resources aimed at the growth of national cultures. A
5  ’ tourist culture’ , however , cannot contribute to national self-esteem, nor  genuinely be a way of introducing a nation to others. Tourism will flourish and  contribute to national prosperity only when it is part of a flourishing and grow-  ing cultural tradition, cherishing its past and infusing into it a new life with  all the means of the modern world.
21.15 We know that Unesco has been passing through a difficult phase of its  history and, like any organization that has been in existence for 40 years, it  has its own weaknesses and these need to be rectified. The need is for corrective  surgery, not dismembering of the patient. Positive steps have already been  instituted and, we understand, they have begun to give results. It would be use-  ful to see a mechanism for continuous review arid reform become a permanent  feature of Unesco so that drawbacks might be tackled before they became major  problems.
21.16 Decentralization has long been recognized as a factor that could con-  tribute to the effective implementation of Unesco’s programmes. I am pleased to  note that almost one third of the programmes in the education and science sectors  have already been decentralized. I commend the Director-General and his staff on  what they have accomplished and urge them to continue their efforts to move an  even more substantial proportion of the programmes to the respective regions.  Besides enhancing the relevance of the programmes to the regions, decentraliz-  ation can also help to reduce costs and increase the effective use of human  resources. This may be done through its own network or through other Specialized  Agencies.
21.17 With regard to the Draft Programme and Budget for 1988-1989, I note that  while zero growth has been proposed, there is a need for each member country to  bear a greater proportion of the budget in absolute terms. We commend the efforts  made by the Director-General to abolish a substantial number of posts, both  vacant and frozen.
21.18 Mr President, internal reforms and revision must continue and continuity  ought to be reflected in the activities of Unesco. However, the efficacy of the  Organization, its ability to serve as a vehicle for intellectual co-operation,  international peace and understanding demand that we revive the universality of  membership by calling upon all nations to resume their rightful role in it.  Unesco will need all the wisdom it can muster, as well as all the support we can  give it, if it is to meet the challenge of the future and fulfil the mandate it  has been entrusted with. This can only be accomplished with the active partici-  pation of all the peoples of the world, through practical, intellectual and moral  solidarity, by enhancing and enriching the constructive cultural diversity of our  planet and basing our action on mutual respect. Thank you, Mr President.
22. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the Malaysian delegation for his statement and I  give the floor to H.E. Mr Anwar Abdullah Al-Nouri, Minister of Education and head  of the delegation of Kuwait.
(23.1) Mr AL-NOüRI (Kuwait) (Translation from the ,Arabic):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,  Mr Director-General, distinguished heads and members of delegations, I greet you with  a message of peace from my country, praying that the Almighty will make tolerance and  concord our guides, imbue us with the spirit of brotherly love and give us the  strength to work together in unity for the success of this conference. I should like  to begin by warmly congratulating the President on his unanimous election to the  presidency of the twenty-fourth session. We are confident that his wise and patient  leadership will ensure the success of our work. I should also like to commend  Mr Todorov, the President of the twenty-third session of the General Conference, who  led our meetings in Sofia with the utmost wisdom and skill. I must also extend my un-  qualified appreciation to the members of the Executive Board and its Chairman, my  friend Mr Margan. The results of the efforts of the Executive Board form a valuable  asset that will enrich the work of our Conference, and help to facilitate our task.  Finally, I should like to address the Director-General, Mr M’Bow, to express once  again our satisfaction with and appreciation of his selfless, energetic and sincere  service to this Organization and of his successful efforts to improve the work process  at Unesco. I can assure him right now that the Draft Programme and Budget in its  entirety has the support of my country‘s delegation. It is the result of positive co-  operation between the Director-General and the Executive Board. We commend the efforts  made to prepare a no-growth budget based on the current maximum level, which accords  well with the requirements of the economic conditions of many countries.
(23.2) Mr President, as the twentieth century draws to a close the world is passing  through a number of acute and unprecedented crises. Armed conflicts here and there are  wreaking havoc with the security of peoples and obstructing development; the arms race  has reached the point of becoming a danger to humanity as a whole; and the perils that  threaten the environment are wasting resources and polluting the atmosphere. The cause  of the oppressive crisis that afflicts the world today is not limited to the present  imbalance in the international economic and financial system but is linked first and  foremost to the radical transformation that is taking place in the basic structure of  the world order. This transformation is affecting the developing countries and has  become a threat to their peoples. We are confronted with new forms of production and  consumption and our societies are suffering under the weight of unprecedented social  and human problems. Unemployment and inflation are spreading everywhere, and the debts  of many countries of the South are accumulating and increasing the poverty of their  peoples. In the face of all this we must renew our faith in the United Nations system  and in Unesco, insisting that this world Organization is more necessary today than it  ever was before and that the noble tasks it performs have become indispensable for the  welfare of humanity as a whole. Let us then all work with resolve and determination to
161    consolidate international multilateral incellectual co-operation. Abandoning inter-  national multilateral co-operation or weakening it would hurt all countries, rich and  poor, weak and strong alike. No one denies the fact that the performance and  efficiency of the United Nations system needs to be improved and its administration  modernized. For our part, we commend the measures taken by the Director-General and  support the recommendations of the Executive Board, which augur well and provide  grounds for optimism. It is incumbent upon us to act as one in order to put these and  other recommendations into practice and to follow up their application with the utmost  sensitivity and care. This can only take place if there is a general political will  that is full of enthusiasm and faith in that principle of universality on whose behalf  the United Nations system and its Specialized Agencies were founded. The principle of  universality is not only a quantitative concept; it also implies that Unesco must  become a broadly based arena in which the whole panoply of cultures come together and  in which dialogue takes place in a spirit of give-and-take and in a climate marked by  mutual understanding and respect.
(23.3) Mr President, we in Kuwait have completed the quantitative stage of edu-  cational development: every child now has access to a free education, with complemen-  tary health, social and psychological services from kindergarten to university. Over a  quarter of the population of the country are attending educational institutions. We  are now concentrating our efforts on the quality of education. We are investigating  different models, selecting from among the best available alternatives and laying an  infrastructure that will enable us to achieve the educational goal of balance and  integration between the individual's need for self-realization and the actualization  of his potential and talents and our society's development needs, particularly the  need to train the specialists it lacks and the need to set its priorities accordingly.  Thus education must achieve a balance between deepening the sense of national and Arab  identity and the affirmation of cultural identity and the sense of belonging (for we  believe that anyone who loses his identity also loses the creative and positive  ability to co-operate successfully with others) and the absolute need to inculcate  receptivity to the experiences and cultures of a friendly world. Education must also  achieve a balance between the vital need to keep pace with the bewildering progress of  technology, and the preservation of the eternal human values embodied in the teachings  of orthodox Islam and the Arab traditions that have been handed down to us. It must  maintain a balance between the structures and hierarchies and the administrative and  technical cadres of the education system; between decentralization, in order to  encourage initiative, creativity and invention and the release of human potential, and  centralized planning and supervision, which provides the uniformity needed to ensure  harmonious application and the pursuit of goals without dispersion and confusion. Edu-  cation must also maintain a balance between the inculcation of a broadly based general  culture, which is necessary today for confronting a changing world that is developing  at a frenetic pace, and our needs as developing countries for the technically special-  ized skills required to complete our societies' infrastructures. We have begun this  qualitative phase in the development of education and the effort to achieve these  balances with a comprehensive evaluation of our education system as a whole. We did  this in order to learn where it is headed and to find out through scientific research  and discussion where its problems and bottle-necks lie. This evaluation will give us a  clear view of what needs to be done to impel the education system more effectively  towards its goals. We have made a special effort to ensure the widest possible oppor-  tunity for a nationwide discussion of these evaluation and reform efforts. Thus we  established the Supreme Council for Education, which includes national leaders and  experts representing the various parts of the dynamic sector of our society. The  purpose was to make education into a national issue and a focus of national concern  and ensure that educational decisions represent a common viewpoint worked out by all  sectors of society. We believe that we must bring about change, and we are in fact  looking for change. The frenetic pace of the journey of life does not permit us to  hesitate and makes no allowance for pauses in the press. We are obliged to evaluate,  experiment, re-evaluate and try again; anyone who wants to put a hold on reform until  the ideal model has been constructed will have to wait a lifetime; for general success  is always the result of little successes in several sectors. With this belief in mind,  we carried out projects for the development and diversification of secondary edu-  cation, introducing therein productive work and applied studies,and providing occu-  pational counselling and guidance. We also undertook projects for the development of  technical and parallel education and the development of integrated approaches to the  various subjects of the curriculum. We have also introduced more administrative de-  centralization. We believe that many worthwhile achievements have been made in these  areas.
(23.4) Mr President, I should like to raise two important matters regarding Unesco's  programme and activities. In the first place, programme concentration. Everyone has  been calling for this reform, and undoubtedly the Director-General has made serious  efforts to attain it. We hope that these efforts will be continued. We also hope that  the third Medium-Term Plan will be more concentrated and that the number of major pro-  grammes will be reduced, for if the major programmes are maintained in such great  numbers it will be difficult to reduce the number of subprogrammes under them. We also  hope that the Plan will be drafted in a clear and transparent manner so that the
5  general readerand Üot only the specialist will find it easy to- read and understand--  it. In the second place, programme evaluation. Evaluation is a difficult and continu-  ing process, but it is a constant need in every activity. We commend the measures the  Director-General has taken to have the programme evaluated and we insist emphatically  on the need to select people of high calibre to carey out the evaluation process and  to associate the Member States in that process so that their varying opinions can be  heard. We are also sure that the Participation Programme provides an important service  to Member States, particularly the developing countries. We thank the Director-General  for the steps he has taken to simplify the procedures for implementing that Programme,  and we hope that more resources will be allocated to it in the near future.
(23.5) Mr President, 1988 marks the beginning of the World Decade for Cultural  Development and, of course, our Organization, because of its position and fields of  competence, will play a leading role in guiding and executing its activities. Everyone  now agrees that culture should play a prominent role in future development plans.  Accordingly, we must regard the World Decade for Cultural Development as a major  parameter of the third Medium-Term Plan. Cultural development in the broad meaning of  the term includes everything that falls within the sphere of competence of Unesco. I  am pleased to say that Kuwait has participated in preparing the Arab cultural strategy  and that this comprehensive plan, prepared by the Arab Educational, Cultural and  Scientific Organization (ALECSO), is the product of the joint effort of many experts  from the Arab world. It is our first contribution to the World Decade. It is hoped  that the stress on culture and the role it plays in development will correct the mis-  takes of the past, which resulted from the limiting of development effort to a narrow  economic and social context. We in Kuwait are constructing an education and training  system on foundations that are drawn from our own cultural heritage and from the  eternal message of Islam. This system is also receptive to the world, so that its  users can benefit from all human knowledge and experience. We also ascribe the great-  est importance to the celebration of International Literacy Year in 1990. We must  mobilize all human and material resources - national, regional and international - to  eradicate the blight of illiteracy, which is a mark of shame on the twentieth century  with its boast of enormous scientific and technological successes. Unesco should  strengthen its role in education and culture so as to promote more equitable and more  balanced relations among States. Moreover, it should continue its policy of improving  the status of women, who should be able to occupy the important position they deserve  in society and to play an active social role, as the teachings of Islam dictate. We  also ask Unesco to give greater importance to Arab cultural programmes and to expand  the use of the Arabic language to a point commensurate with the leading role it has  played in ancient and contemporary civilizations.
(23.6) Mr President, last January the Fifth Islamic Summit Conference attended by  heads of State and heads of government representing one third of the population of the  world, met in Kuwait. The most important appeal of that Conference was for peace.  'Peace' is the word Muslims use when greeting each other. We commend Unesco's leading  role in promoting peace, strengthening human rights and defending the freedom of  peoples. Peace, however, is indivisible, and the security and stability of the world  at large will not be assured while wars and armed conflicts continue to break out in  various parts of it. Thus we renew the appeal for an end to the war between Iraq and  Iran. We urge both parties to heed the calls for peace and for the achievement of a  peaceful solution of this armed conflict in the framework of the resolutions of the  Organization of the Islamic Conference and of the United Nations and its Security  Council. This war is causing enormous material and human losses in two countries that  share the deepest cultural and spiritual ties. It is standing in the way of the devel-  opment of our region, which is regarded as a vital artery of the world economy, and  the welfare of its peoples. We also insist that the peace of the world will continue  to be threatened until there is a just and permanent solutiori to the Palestinian prob-  lem that enables the Palestinian people to establish their State on their national  soil. We also commend the efforts of Unesco to protect the natural right of the  inhabitants of the occupied Arab territories to an education that is in keeping with  their cultural and historical identity. The occupation authorities have persistently  violated that right in the most reprehensible ways. We also support with great insist-  ence and confidence Unesco's continued efforts to take firm measures, in accordance  with its Constitution and other international agreements, to safeguard the unique  historical identity of Jerusalem and to preserve its Islamic and Arab features, which  are threatened with destruction. As regards the strengthening of human rights and the  freedom of peoples, we repeat our condemnation of the racist governing regime of South  Africa and we call for an end to its reign of terror, which is depriving the African  of his right to a life of dignity. We also call upon the international community to  support Lebanon's efforts to safeguard its cultural heritage and to take the necessary  measures to save the historical monuments of the city of Tyre and to protect its  antiquities from destruction.
(23.7) Mr President, in the past few years the international community has confirmed  its faith in Unesco and its allegiance to Unesco's noble goals. We are in greater need  than ever before of the accumulated wisdom of humankind to preserve this Organization  that is so dear to us and to save it from the dangers which beset it. Solidarity-  - ___ - ____ ___ - ~
163    between peoples and international multilateral co-operation in the fields of edu-  cation, culture and science represent the only path to peace and to the restoration of  human dignity that will make all men and women masters and not slaves in a world in  which love overcomes resentment and hate, in whicb truth triumphs over evil and in  which co-operation takes place for piety and veneration and not for sin and trans-  gression, as the Lord of the World commanded in’ His Holy Book: ‘Rather help one  another to piety and veneration and do not help one another to sin and transgression’.  Thank you very much.
24. The PRESIDENT:  i thank the head of the Kuwaiti delegation for his statement and I give  the floor to the last speaker on the list this morning. Mr Rajab Muftah  Boudabbous, Secretary-General of the People‘s Committee for Information and  Culture and head of the delegation of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya.
(25.1) Mr BOUDABBOUS (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (Translation from the Arabic) :  Mr President, distinguished heads and members of delegations, I should like  to begin by greeting you on behalf of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and by congratulating  Mr Putzeys Alvarez, head of the delegation of Guatemala, on his election to the presi-  dency of this session. His qualifications for this post are indisputable, and we are  certain that he will lead this Conference with the benefit of the wisdom for which he  is known, the skill for which he has become distinguished and the excellent relations  he enjoys with all parties. We wish him every success. I must also commend the dis-  tinguished efforts of Mr Todorov, President of the twenty-third session of the General  Conference.
(25.2) Mr President, distinguished heads and members of delegations, this Conference  is meeting under highly delicate, dangerous and complicated international circum-  stances and in a psychological climate that is charged with tension and apprehension.  The Western media and American circles have set their hearts on completing the great  conspiracy against Unesco and, through Unesco, against the United Nations system and  the so-called concept of international multilateral co-operation. This idea no longer  pleases these media and the interests that control them. The degree of resentment  harboured by the American administration against Unesco has surpassed all expec-  tations. If the Headquarters of the Organization were located in a city other than  Paris it could well have been subjected to an aerial attack and bare-faced aggression  as our country was last year. Some Member States have been engaged in a policy of  blackmail, attempting to instil a spirit of resignation in the minds of those who are  anxious to maintain the independence of Unesco and its ability to function in the  absence of undue influences and pressures. Moreover, the countries that withdrew of-
165    their own free will and in accordance with constitutional procedures are exercising  power behind the scenes through the satellite countries that lie in their orbit and  are playing a dangerous game aimed at compromising the reputation of the Organization  and exposing its future to danger. We opposed the granting of observer status to these  countries, and our opposition still stands, because experience has confimed the  validity of the views expressed by my country's delegation in Sofia. Observer status  is granted to countries that harbour no hostility to the Organization. The presence of  the enemies of the Organization as observers among us gives them the one-sided oppor-  tunity to exert pressure and impose views, spread rumours and distribute roles so as  to do harm to Unesco and seize control of its future.
(25.3) Mr President, distinguished heads and members of delegations, it is incumbent  upon us as members of this Organization to take a strong and firm stand against all  the threats and pressures that are brought to bear upon us. We must continue to  support this Organization with confidence and constancy. We should refuse to make any  new concessions, of whatever kind. The peoples of the world are focusing their atten-  tion on this Conference and on the United Nations. The other Specialized Agencies are  watching closely what is happening here because it is all related to their future and  destiny. We must make our decisions very seriously as they will have important conse-  quences for many others as well. This Organization must survive in a way that safe-  guards its prestige and dignity and that enables it to advance in the execution of its  plans and programmes. We must ask ourselves what is the value of the universality of  the Organization if it is purchased at the price of its independence and if it means  subjecting the Organization to the threats of some countries which preach civilization  while using their preachings as a pretext to exercise tutelage over the Third World?  How long can we continue to make concessions under the threat of blackmail and with-  drawal? We agree with the Director-General, who has said in the Introduction to the  Draft Programme and Budget that the only alternative for humanity was multilateral  co-operation based on the freedom and dignity of every nation and on work, solidarity  and progress for all peoples. We would add that multilateral co-operation should be  based on respect for the sovereignty and freedom of peoples and for their cultural  identity and on the principle of equality among States. This co-operation should also  be sheltered from all forms of arrogance, blackmail, threat, pressure and the  assertion of self-interest.
(25.4) Mr President, distinguished heads and members of delegations, my country's  delegation appreciates the efforts the distinguished Director-General and his staff  have put into the preparation of the two volumes of document 2 4  Cf5. The Director-  General has made a great effort to reconcile the differing opinions of the Member  States with the austere guidelines of the Executive Board so that he could submit a  highly presentable and easily digestible Draft Programme and Budget. This draft  represents the last phase of the execution of the second Medium-Term Plan (for 1984-
1989). We believe, however, that the present budget has departed from that Plan in  some respects because of the pressures placed on the Organization and on its governing  bodies and because of the financial crisis that was precipitated by the non-  participation of withdrawing States. At the fourth extraordinary session, which  adopted the second Medium-Term Plan, we agreed upon a specific growth rate, which we  now find ourselves obliged to abandon for the principle of zero budgetary growth as a  major concession on our part to those States that seek to exercise tutelage over this  world. We regret that concession, which has prevented us from allocating the necessary  resources to finance a number of programmes we find very important.
(25.5) Mr President, distinguished heads and members of delegations, my country's  delegation would like to put forward to this Conference a number of brief comments  regarding document 24 Cf5. (1) The restructuring of programmes should not involve any  departures whatsoever from the second Medium-Term Plan or any of its guidelines.
(2) Care should be made not to depart from the principle of priorities, regarding  which the Executive Board issued instructions to the Director-General in
25 EX/Decision 4.1, as such a departure could lead to the sacrifice of important pro-  grammes, and the programming procedure followed at the Organization cannot easily  accommodate departures from that principle. (3) Care should also be made neither to  abandon the principle of centralization nor to introduce it into all regions indis-  criminately and at all levels, for in some regions it has had limited or negligible  success. Decentralization could also lead to a dispersal of the efforts of the Organ-  ization and could derogate from its prestige. (4) We regret that insufficient funds  have been allocated to some major programmes and subprogrammes. The zero-growth-based  programming procedure does not allow the allocation of the funds needed to finance a  number of important activities that would meet the needs of many Member States.
(25.6) My country's delegation believes that contempt for the Constitution and the  resolutions of the Organization and lack of interest in execution are sufficient  grounds for expelling countries from the Organization. The practices of the Zionist  entity in occupied Palestine and in the occupied Arab territories and its repeated  violation of international laws, conventions and practice are, in our view, sufficient  ground for expelling that foreign body from Unesco. The failure to deter and punish
5  that entity has been responsible for its stubborn persistence in rejecting our resol-  utions and treating them with contempt, at the encouragement and support of certain  Member States of this Organization abetted by imperialist circles, foremost among whom  is the American administration. We believe that Unesco is facing a difficult test and  we believe that it is up to this Conference to take a clear, frank and firm position  towards the Zionist entity, whose very existence is in contradiction with the noble  ideals and principles represented by this Organization.
(25.7) Mr President, distinguished heads and members of delegations, my country,  like the other Arab States, is pleased with the place that has been given to the use  of Arabic as a working language at Unesco, The understanding has been that its use  would be expanded to reach the level of the other working languages. We have found,  however, that that expansion has not taken place, despite the importance of Arabic as  a means of communication for over 150 million people. Moreover, it is a major language  for many Islamic peoples, who number over a thousand million people and who have great  difficulty in following many Unesco programmes and publications.
(25.8) Mr President, distinguished heads and members of delegations, the great  Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya would like at this Conference to reassert  its support for this Organization and its confidence in its administration. It  commends the serious, humane efforts made by its Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar  M'BOW, to promote fruitful co-operation between peoples all over the world, despite  the constant pressures and provocations to which he has been subjected. It also re-  affirms its determination to continue to co-operate with Unesco and to broaden the  scope of that co-operation. Permit me to remind you that since 1977 our agreements  concluded with Unesco under the Trust Fund have amounted to $57,000,000. The Organiz-  ation has undertaken to execute a number of major projects under these agreements.  This is proof of our determination to support the Organization and to benefit from it  expertise and experience.
(25.9) Mr President, distinguished heads and members of delegations, the American  administration and a number of Western countries have attempted to impose their  hegemony on Unesco and to place into positions of leadership people who would pander  to their whims and do their bidding. To that end they have brought pressure to bear on  many States. This conspiracy has been opposed by countries that place the interest of  the world above any other consideration. If those countries believe that they have  succeeded in sowing the seeds of discord in the Executive Board and tangling the  international ties between the members of this venerable Organization, this Conference  still has the power to thwart them with the appeal to the spirit of conciliation and  the call to calm for the sake of unconditional and equitable co-operation between all  the member countries of the Organization. The Conference also has the power to guide  the Organization on the right and just path in accordance with its Constitution and  regulations and to stand firm against any deviation that may be imposed upon it.
(25.10) Mr President, distinguished heads and members of delegations, my country's  delegation believes that we must give Unesco the support it needs to achieve its  goals. Our Organization, which I want'to be the expression of the hopes of this world  and the aspirations of its peoples for a better future, asserts its identity when it  insists on expressing the apprehension of the peoples of the world regarding the  perils that surround them. Our Organization reflects the aspirations of these peoples  for a life of freedom and dignity where justice, peace, security and well-being  prevail and where there is no place for tyranny, exploitation, aggression and self-  interest. Thank you, Mr President.
26.1 The PRESIDENT:  us to the end of this morning's session.
26.2 The meeting is adjourned.  I thank the head of the Libyan delegation for his statement. This brings  La séance est levée à 13 heures  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.00 h.