Vingt-septième séance plénière
6 novembre 1987, à 15 h 20  Président : M. PUTZEYS ALVAREZ (Guatemala)  Twenty-seventh plenary meeting
6 ~on6pn 1987 r. B 15.20  npencenaTenb: r-H nYTCE:kiC AJibBAPEC (Tsmehiana)
843    ADOPTION DU PLAFOND BUDGETAIRE PROVISOIRE POUR 1988-1989  ADOPTION OF THE PROVISIONAL BUDGET CEILING FOR 1988-1989  APROBACION DEL LIMITE MAXIM0 PROVISIONAL DEL PRESUPUESTO PARA 1988-1989  YTBEPXJ@HME iIPEABAPMTEJIbHOi'0 IIPEQEJIbHOïO YPOBHB E;IOA>KETA HA 1988-1989 IT.  \IA4 - \IAA F U  GIs ;.p4iI &'I dl JLCI
1988 - 1989$If$@fR$$@@R
(1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I declare the meeting open. Ladies and gentlemen, our work this afternoon  begins with consideration of agenda items 5.3 (Adoption of the provisional budget  ceiling for 1988-1989) and 16.1 (Report by the Director-General on the budgetary  situation of the Organization in 1986-1987. Supplementary estimates).
(1.2) The documents related to item 5.3 are: 24 C/5 (Draft Programme and Budget  for 1988-1989), 24 C/6 and Add. and Corr. (Recommendations of the Executive Board  concerning the Draft Programme and Budget for 1988-1989), 24 C/lll, Part I,  Annex-Recommendations, and 24 G/119, which contains the General Committee's  recommendation to the General Conference on the adoption of the provisional budget  ceiling for 1988-1989.
(1.3) In the discussion of item 5.3, the Chairman of the Executive Board will  take the floor first and he will be followed by the Chairman of the Administrative  Commission. Anyone else who wishes to take the floor may then do so before we vote  on the provisional budget ceiling.
(1.4) The Chairman of the Executive Board has the floor.
2.1 Mr MARGAN (Yugoslavia), Chairman of the Executive Board:  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the presentation I made to the  General Conference on 21 October by virtue of Article V.B, paragraph 9, of the  Constitution dealing with the report of the Executive Board on its own activities  in 1986-1987, which is now reproduced in document 24 C/INF.12, I submitted the  Executive Board's recommendations on the Draft Programme and Budget for 1988-1989  (document 24 C/5). As will be recalled, these recommendations were formulated by  the Board after detailed and careful examination at its 126th and 127th sessions.  Document 24 C/6 contains the recommendations formulated at the 126th session; and  I draw the âttention of the General Conference once again to paragraph 174  thereof, which refers to the bdget in particular as follows:  'Submits --- for examination by the General Conference, with a favourable  recommendation, the Draft Programme and Budget for 1988-1989, bearing in  mind the above observations and recommendations, subject to the  Executive Board' s final recommendations on the proposed budget , to be  made at its 127th session.'  These final recommendations were made during the first part of the present 127th  session of the Executive Board. In this regard, I wish to draw your attention to
127 EX/Decision 4.2, reproduced in document 24 C/6 Add., by which the Executive  Board in paragraph 3:
27  'Submits for the consideration of the General Conference the provisional  budget ceiling of $348,833,000 for 1988-1989 composed of:  $  (i) Budget base for 1988-1989 Parts I-IV 313,020,500  (ii) Recosting requirement 12,861,500  (iii) Part VI1 - Appropriation Reserve 9,240,000  (iv) Part VI11 - Currency Fluctuation 13,711,000
2.2 Mr President, the budget proposed for 1988-1989 is based, as was the  previous one, on the hypothesis of zero growth in real terms. The figures I have  just quoted were established in conformity with the budgeting techniques -  endorsed by the General Conference in 22 C/Resolution 44 and by the Executive  Board in 125 EX/Decisions 4.2 and 7.3 - on the basis of the constant dollar  exchange rate of 6.45 French francs or 2.01 Swiss francs equal to one United  States dollar for Parts I to VI of the budget, which amounts to $313,020,500.
2.3 In addition, a sum of $9,240,000 is included in Part VI1 (Appropriation  Reserve) to cover the increase in costs arising from inflation for 1988-1989 and  a sum of $13,711,000 in Part VI11 (Currency Fluctuation) to offset the dif-  ferences between the constant dollar rate and the operational rate of exchange at  the time of drafting document 24 C/5 (February 19871, namely, 6.07 French francs  and 1.50 Swiss francs.
2.4 In accordance with the decisions taken at its 125th session
(125 EX/Decisions 4.2 and 7.3), the Board examined at its 127th session the first  revision to the budget estimates presented in document 24 C/5 Rev.1 (published on
12 August 1987) and noted that the Director-General did not consider it necessary  then to revise the provision included in Part VI11 of the budget contained in  document 24 C/5, in view of the low variations in exchange rates up to July 1987.
2.5 Document 25 C/5 Rev.2 which is before you contains the second revision  concerning recosting (relating to inflation during 1986-1987 and 1988-1989) and  Part VI11 (Currency Fluctuation). As regards Part VIII, Currency Fluctuation, the  document does not recommend any revision in the provision already included and  therefore remains unchanged at $13,711,00G. As regards the provision for recost-  iiig the 1986-1987 base, this amount has been revised upwards to $13,814,500 or by  $953,000 due to higher inflation in 1987 than originally estimated. For the Same  reason Part VI1 of the Budget - Appropriation Reserve - is increased by $600,000  to $9,840,000. The total additional increase amounting to $1,553,000 is con-  sistent with the application of the budgeting techniques of the Organization.  This brings the total budget ceiling for 1988-1989 to $350,386,000.
2.6 Mr President, allow me now to refer to certain other 'items of  expenditure' which are not included in the above budget ceiling for 1988-1989.  These are:  (a) the mandatory provision for the increase of $300,000 in the  Organization's contribution to the Medical Benefits Fund on  behalf of associate members:  (b) any increase in staff costs which may arise in case of a change  in the rate of staff turnover;  (c) the reserve of up to $1 million for draft resolutions submitted  by Member States.  The Executive Board, after a careful examination of this question at its
126th session, decided to recommend to the General Conference that the additional  sum which may be required for the financing of these items be found by effecting  reductions within the total budget estimates of $313,020,500 proposed under  Parts I to VI of document 24 C/5. The possible areas for effecting these  reductions are mentioned in paragraph 168 of document 24 C/6.
2.7 In this connection, may I add that in paragraph 169 the Executive Board  further recommends that the General Conference, 'invite the Director-General, in  the light of the financial constraints, to pursue innovative strategies for
845    'programme execution, including possible modifications in the structure of the  Secretariat...'.
2.8 Consequently, it is for the General Conference to reach a decision  concerning the absorption of these items of expenditure within Parts I to VI and  the areas in which the required reductions should be effected to make available a  sum of approximately $5,419,000.
2.9 Finally, Mr President, I wish to refer to two other decisions of the  Executive Board which have a bearing on the Programme and Budget for 1988-1989.
2.10 The first concerns decision 7.6 adopted by the Board at its
125th session by which the Board decided that the sum of $10 million advanced  from miscellaneous income for the 1984-1985 financial period to finance the  Account for End-of-Service Grants and indemnities should be replenished in three  equal biennial instalments in 1988-1989, 1990-1991 and 1992-1993.
2.11 Consequently, the first biennial instalment of the amortization which is  estimated at $4,025,200 will have to be absorbed within the limits of the budget  ceiling approved for 1988-1989 through savings that will be effected during the  implementation of the Programme.
2.12 The second decision, Mr President, refers to decision 8.10 adopted by  the Board at its present 127th session, and is concerned with the advance of  $13,500,000 made from the Working Capital Fwnd to finance unamortized costs  already incurred for the improvement and extension of Headquarters premises. The  Board considered that the amount should be repaid as soon as possible, so as to  replenish the Working Capital Fund, in any case no later than 31 December 1993.
2.13 The Board recommends to the General Conference that the repayment should  be effected by ensuring that appropriate provision is made for that purpose in  Part VI of the budget in the next three biennia, it being understood in principle  that those measures should not result in an increase of the budget base.
2.14 For this purpose, the Board decided to recommend to the General  Conference that it should authorize the Director-General, on the basis of the  decision that it will take on the level of the Working Capital Fund for
1988-1989, to contract loans to the necessary minimum amount after all possi-  bilities of reimbursements to the Working Capital Fund have been exhausted. In  other words, the Board recommends that maximum savings be effected for the  purpose of replenishing the first instalment of the repayment of the advance made  before resorting to bank loans. It is therefore for the General Conference to  reach a decision on this matter.
2.15 In conclusion, Mr President, the provisional budget ceiling for 1988-
1989 now before the General Conference for Parts I to VI11 amounts to a total of.  $350,386,000 (including the upward revision for recosting and of the provision  for Part VI1 totalling $1,553,000) and I recommend its adoption. Thank you,  Mr President.
(3) The PRESIDENT '(Translation from the Spanish) :  I thank the Chairman of the Executive Board for his presentation of this  item and for reading the corresponding recommendation. Mr Isaksson, Chairman of the  Administrative Commission, who will present the relevant recommendations, now has  the floor.
4.1 Mr ISAKSSON (Iceland), Chairman of the Administrative Commission-:  Thank you, Mr President. Before the General Conf.erence comes to discuss  and then to approve the budget ceiling for 1988-1989, it is my pleasure Co  present to you the recommendations of the Administrative Commission relevant to  the consideration by the plenary of this question and which were made in  connection with the discussion of the following items: item 5.2 - Methods of  preparing the budget and budget estimates for 1988-1989; item 5.9 - Part VI  (Capital Expenditure); item 5.10 - Part VI1 (Appropriation Reserve) and  item 11.8 - Working Capital Fund: level arid administration.
4.2 In this regard, Mr President I would like to refer you to the report of  the Administrative Commission - Part I, Annex-Recommendations - document
24 C/iii. Your attention is also drawn to a typing error on page two of this  document where, against the heading, the document reference should read 24 C/119  instead of 24 C/113.
4.3 Mr President, I wish to underline from the outset that the actual level  of the budget ceiling is outside the competence of the Administrative Commission.  The Commission's task was to ascertain whether the budgeting techniques decided  upon by the General Conference in 22 C/Resolution 44, as endorsed by the Execu-  tive Board in 125 EX/Decision 7.3, had been properly applied by the Director-  General in preparing the Draft Programme and Budget for 1988-1989.
4.4 The Administrative Commission concluded, Mr President, that the  budgeting techniques currently in force pertaining to the application of the  principle of the constant dollar, the separate calculation of inflation costs,  the separate treatment of monetary fluctuations and the other appropriate methods  had been correctly applied by the Director-General in preparing the Draft  Programme and Budget for 1988-1989.
4.5 In its examination of the inflation component of the budget, the  Commission noted the recosting of the cost of inflation for 1986-1987 (based on  art estimated average rate of inflation in 1987 of 3.2 per cent instead of 2.5 per  cent previously assumed) resulting in an additional amount of $953,000. The  Commission also concluded that Part VI1 of the budget (Appropriation Reserve)  would have to be increased for the same reason by an amount of $600,000, from  $5,240,000 (as shown in paragraph D21 of Volume I of document 24 C/5) to  $9,840,000 in order to take account of the revised estimates for the rate of  inflation. Therefore the Commission recommended, Mr President, that the General  Conference approve on the one hand the additional amount of $953,000 required for  the recosting of the budget base, and on the other hand an amount of $9,85G,OOO  under Part VI1 (Appropriation Reserve) , which includes an increase of $600,000  for inflation in 1988-1989. This, by the way, was also reierred to by the  Chairman of the Executive Board.
4.6 That being said, Mr President, as I have already indicated, the  Administrative Commission has rio competence to pronounce on the budget cegling as  such. It is for the plenary of the General Conference to decide whether the total  additional amount of $1,553,000 resulting from the recosting of the inflation  estimates should be added to the budget ceilirLg of $348,833,000 submitted by the  Executive Board. I can only express here my personal view that if we are  consistent with the logic of the budget techniques now in force it would be  appropriate for the General Conference to add this amount to the budget ceiling  submitted by the Executive board.
4.7 The Administrative Commission, Mr President, also addressed itself to  that part of the decision of the Executive Board at its 126th session relating to  three specific items not included in the budget base, namely: the mandatory  provision for the increase of $300,000 in the Organization's contribution to the  Medical Benefits Fund on behalf of associate members; any increase in staff costs  which may arise in case of a change in the rate of staff turnover; and the  reserve of up to $1 million for draft resolutions submitted by Member States.  This you will find in paragraph 167 of 126 EX/Decision 4.1, which is reproduced  in paragraph 167 of document 24 C/6, and was also referred to by the Chairman of  the Executive Board.
4.8 The examination of these matters gave rise to an extensive debate,  particularly the question relating to the question of staff turnover, or 'lapse  factor'. The representatives of the Director-General explained to the Commission  that, in order to ensure comparability with document 23 C/5 Approved, a 5 per  cent lapse factor had been applied in calculating staff costs in 24 C/5. This  implied that the number of vacant posts would amount to some 118. However, as a  result of the staff reduction and redeployment exercise, the actual number of  vacant posts was much lower than this figure.
4.9 It was indicated that, if it were decided to apply a deliberate policy  of strict austerity measures with regard to recruitment and filling of posts, it  might be possible to reach a 2.3 per cent lapse factor rate, which would result  in an increase in the staff costs budget estimated at $4,119,000.
4.10 Mr President, the Administrative Commission's conclusion on this item  was to the effect that the 5 per cent lapse factor rate had been correctly  applied in establishing the budget for 1988-1989. It was generally felt that,  since the budget had been established on the basis of a 5 per cent rate, the  total number of staff in the Secretariat should be reduced to correspond to this  rate and the Organization's recruitment policy adjusted accordingly.  Consequently, Mr President, the Commission concluded that any increase in staff  costs which may arise in case of a change in the rate of staff turnover should be
847    absorbed within the budget ceiling. The same conclusion was reached regarding the  mandatory provision for the increase of $300,000 in the Organization's  contribution for the Medical Benefits Fund, and the $1 million reserve for draft  resolutions submitted by Member States.
4.11 Mr President, the draft resolution proposed to the General Conference in  connection with the Administrative Commission's examination of item 5.2 (Methods  of preparing the budget and budget estimates for 1988-1989) is contained in  paragraph 1 of document 24 C/li1 - Part I, Annex-Recommendations.
4.12 Before concluding, Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of  the General Conference to the Commission's recommendations regarding Part VI  (Capital Expenditure) of the budget and item 11.8 (Working Capital Fund),  contained in paragraphs 2 and 4 of document 24 C/lll - Part I, Annex-  Recommendations , whereby an amount of $3.5 million or thereabouts required for  the amortization of construction costs would have to be covered within the  overall budget base for 1988-1989 through savings or otherwise.
4.13 Ip conclusion, Mr President, I would underline that all elements of the  deficit of 'up to $12,944,200' referred to in paragraph 9 of document 24 C/119 -  namely, the so-called mandatory items detailed in paragraph 2 ($5,419,000) ; the  repayment of the 1988-1989 instalment of the advance from miscellaneous income to  the Account for End-of-Service Grants and Indemnities explained in paragraph 3  ($4,025,200); and the additional amount of '$3,500,000 or thereabouts' explained  in paragraph U - were considered by the Administrative Commission during its  examination of the relevant items, and that the Commission is recommending to the  General Conference that this deficit be fully absorbed within the budget base.  Thank you very much, Mr President.
(5) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Chairman of the Administrative Commission for presenting the  relevant recommendations and give the floor to the Deputy Director-General, who has  asked to speak.
6. Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL ADJOINT :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. La Conférence générale est donc appelée  maintenant à prendre une décision en matière de plafond budgétaire, domaine dans  lequel elle a une compétence pleine et entière. Pour ce faire, elle est saisie  d'un document qui fait le point de la situation et dispose des résultats de  l'examen extrgmement précis et rigoureux effectué par le Conseil exécutif et la  Commission administrative sur la question. Avant que vous n'exerciez votre pou-  voir de décision, il est de mon devoir de rappeler la position du Directeur  généra.1, qui est non seulement exprimée dans le äocument dont vous êtes saisis,  mais qu'il a fait connaître ces derniers mois dans ses interventions devant le  Conseil exécutif et la Conférence générale. Cette position est la suivante :  l'application des techniques budgétaires en vigueur, qui ont été scrupuleusement  suivies par le Secrétariat, conduit à un plafond d'un peu plus de 350 millions  de dollars ; ce plafond correspond à ce qu'on appelle la croissance zéro, prin-  cipe qui a fait l'objet d'un consensus antérieur d'ailleurs difficile 6 définir,  car il n'y a aucun texte sur cette croissance zéro. Ainsi qu'il l'indique au  paragraphe 9 du document 24 C/119, le Directeur général souhaitait attirer l'at-  tention de la Conférence sur le fait que, si le Secrétariat est contraint d'ab-  sorber, dans les limites de ce plafond de 350 millions de dollars, un certain  nombre de charges nouvelles et obligatoires qui ne figuraient pas au budget de  l'exercice précédent, il nous faudra amputer les crédits affectés aux programmes  d'une somme de l'ordre de 12 millions de dollars. I1 était donc du devoir du  Directeur général de bien faire observer à la Conférence, générale que la crois-  sance zéro du budget ne signifiera pas, dans cette éventualité, le maintien das  programmes à leur niveau antérieur mais bien une réduction des programmes de  l'ordre de 10 à 12 millions de dollars. Voilà, Monsieur le Président, la seule  déclaration que j'avais à faire, de façon que, avant qu'elle n'exprime son choix - et j'espère qu'elle le fera par consensus - la Conférence soit pleinement  informée de la situation. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
(7) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  floor,  I thank the Deputy Director-General. The delegate of Venezuela now has the
(8.1) Mr ORTIZ CHALBAUD (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, Venezuela is focusing close attention on the Organization's  budgetary concerns at the moment, as the world economic crisis is now affecting not  only Unesco but its Member States themselves as well, imposing serious economic  constraints upon them.
(8.2) Venezuela has a foreign debt of soie $31 billion and a population of  $17 million inhabitants. This debt has placed limits on the execution of worthwhile  national projects, and we have had to abandon undertakings vital to the economic and  social development of our country in order to repay our foreign debt and thereby  maintain and enhance our international reputation and reliability.
(8.3) Venezuela wishes to reaffirm its faith and confidence in and support for  Unesco. When our economic situation was positive we contributed generously to the  Organization. Today the economic situation of Venezuela has changed and we find it  impossible to accept an increase in the budget ceiling which would have significant  repercussions on our contribution for 1988-1989. We have given our agreement to the  budgetary base of $313,020,500, which should absorb or include: the mandatory  provision for the Medical Benefits Fund; any increase in staff costs which may  result from an alteration of the 5 per cent lapse factor rate for staff turnover;  and the $1 million reserve fund for draft resolutions submitted at the General  Conference, as recommended by the Administrative Commission of this Conference and  by the Executive Board at its 127th session. This budget base should also include,  on the one hand, the $4,025,200 for amortizing the Account for End-of-Service Grants  and Indemnities, as recommended by the Executive Board and noted by the Secretariat  in Volume I, paragraph D15, of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1988-1989, and on  the other hand, the $3,550,000 reimbursement of the.Working Capital Fund advance to  cover unamortized construction costs, as recommended by the Administrative  Commission. It may be worth noting that all these items, which add up to a total of  $12,944,200, can be absorbed and therefore do not constitute any kind of potential  deficit for the Organization.
(8.4) When presented with a Draft Programme and Budget which represents an  increase of 30 per cent over the last biennium, we have had to express a reservation  both in the Administrative Commission and in the Executive Board. The effect of this  increase will be to raise our contribution, which has already been raised by the  Committee on Contributions of the United Nations, which has changed our contribution  rate from 0.54 to 0.59 per cent. We therefore feel that Unesco should raise the  question of Member States' ability to pay when confronted with serious problems of  national currency depreciation and foreign debt. In fact, the devaluation of our  currency by ,over 100 per cent vis-à-vis the United States dollar in 1986-1987  .complicates and aggravates our difficulties in paying our contributions to the  Organization. Our contribution would increase by at least $800,000 for 1988-1989 not  counting the supplementary estimate allocation for the 1986-1987 biennium. The  foreign exchange situation also makes it difficult for us to plan the payment of one  part of our contributions in French francs and the other in United States dollars.
(8.5) For all these reasons we find the $350,386,000 ceiling unacceptable and if  the General Conference approves such a budget we shall be obliged to express our  reservations with regard to that decision.
(8.6) In conclusion, we should like to say once again that Venezuela's stance  should not be interpreted as an attempt to place obstacles in the way of the new  Director-General, who has received our full support, or to undermine the  Organization. Our position is not the result of irresponsibility or a casual  approach to multilateral relations, to which our country has always attached great  importance. It was adopted after an objective and conscientious weighing of national  and international financial factors. We believe that the Member States which have  not suffered from the world financial crisis as acutely as the ones which are in our  situation could, in an expression of solidarity, come. forward in support of the  Organization, as would be our firm intention if we were in a position to do so, as  we have done in the past and as we shall do in the future. Thank you very much,  Mr President.
(9)  now has the floor.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Venezuela for his statement. The delegate of Canada
10.1 Mr WILSON (Canada):  Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by thanking the Chairman  of the Executive Board, the Chairman of the Administrative Commission, and the  Deputy Director-General for their very clear and helpful introduction to this  important subject, this range of subjects, that we have before us. We know we are  going to have, inescapably, a debate here this afternoon: the issues are  important and I want to make my contribution to it by stating quite clearly the  Canadian position on a number of things.
10.2 To take first of all the most important document, the most important  decision, let me refer to document 24 C/119 on the adoption of the provisional  budget ceiling. I have three things to say on it, but before that I have to say  something about the word 'ceiling'. In fact, this document, more or less in this  form, came before the General Committee, as you all know, directly from the  Secretariat. It was not considered by the Administrative Commission, and the  General Committee very wisely restricted itself , as you know, Mr President , to  looking at the technical aspects, not the substance. So it is for us here, and  only now in plenary, to deal with the substance.
10.3 On the substance of that paragraph 8, I have this to say: the Consti-  tution, in Article IX.2, clearly provides that the General Conference 'shall  approve and give final effect to the budget and to the apportionment of financial  responsibility among the States Members of the Organization'. The whole purpose  of having this on our agenda, the whole purpose of this document, is thus to  establish the magical figures in paragraph 7, concerning the assessment level and  the deduction for miscellaneous income.
10.4 NOW, my quarrel is with the notion that there is such a thing as a  'provisional budget ceiling'. I submit that not only is it a contradiction in  terms, an oxymoron; in fact the word 'ceiling' has no place whatsoever in the  proposed decision. And so I move - and this is & very formal proposal - that the  word 'ceiling' which appears in this document be deleted on the grounds that it  is totally improper, irrelevant and downright misleading, because there is no  such thing as a 'provisional ceiling'.
10.5 We all know that because of the existence of Financial Regulation 3.8,  in the next 24 months, the coming financial period, there may conceivably be  supplementary estimates, depending on what happens to currency fluctuations; the  so-called 'ceiling', which covers all eight parts of the budget, two of which are  variable, two of which could give rise to supplementary estimates, is thus - I  submit once more - no ceiling at all. Moreover, the term exists nowhere else,  whether in the Financial Regulations, the Constitution, or anywhere else. What we  should do here and now is take the word out altogether, so that the decision  would read: 'Decides that the provisional budget for 1988-1989 shall be ...I. Let  me point out here that if we want to have a self-contained document we really  should include the words 'recommended by the Administrative Commission'.
10.6 Now on the actual amount, we have heard the distinguished delegate of  Venezuela, who, and I am sure he reflects the views of many Member States, finds  it inconvenient to contemplate this vast adjustment made by the Administrative  Commission. For my part, I have to state the Canadian position of full support  for what Mr Isaksson, the Chairman of the Administrative Commission, said: we  have budgeting techniques, and until and unless this or some future session of  the General Conference alters those techniques we either apply them - and that  means, in this case, we must accept that the arithmetical effect of an adjustment  of the inflation rate by 0.7 per cent will produce another $1.5 million burden on  the Member States - or we are talking about negative real growth.
10.7 This brings me to the second point that I want to put on record,  Mr President. Mr de Bonnecorse said that there is no definition of zero real  growth, but I am not sure that he is right. I think that the Executive Board has  offered in its report to plenary a very valid working definition: it has to do  with the idea of the basic budget which comprises Parts I to VI, plus all the  mandatory, non-discretionary expenditures that are foreseeable in the following  financial period. NOW, this is what lies .fully within the control of the Member  States acting here together in plenary. If Part VI1 (Inflation) and Part VI11  (Currency Fluctuations) are not within the control of the members of the Organ-  ization, Parts I-VI and the add-ons are indeed within their control. If this  plenary decides, as I hope it will, to accept the basic budget of $313,020,500,  we shall be defining, for the first tine, in a very useful way, our idea of what  zero real growth is all about. We have taken the Sofia level of some  $289 million; we have recosted it; we have adjusted for the current and the  constant dollar; and we are saying that this represents neither an increase nor a  decrease in the amount of the budget that will be available to finance  programmes.
10.8 Then, however, we have to take a position on paragraph 9, and I have to  Say, like the distinguished delegate of Venezuela, that the Canadian view is that  the case the Director-General puts before us is neither made, nor is it self-  evident, that we are facing a potential deficit of nearly $13 million. We don't  see teis as a deficit. We all know that there is always an under-implementation  factor, running into millions and millions of dollars; this fact is neither  mentioned here, nor discussed. I don't want to sound critical but it is a little  less than perfect to be presented with a somewhat biased, or perhaps even  distorted, indication of the financial future of this Organization.
10.9 Let me say, then, that I do not accept that it is legitimate for us to  be threatened with the perspective in the next 24 months of supplementary esti-  mates of something up to $13 million. If this should happen, Canada will deplore  it, aria will certainly not vote for it, or accept it willingly or cheerfully. I  do not say that we would not abide by a majority decision but, like the delegate  of Venezuela, and perhaps some other speakers who aertainly made their views felt  in the Administrative Commission, we consider that this question of the add-ons  was settled there as it had been settled in the Executive Board; if it is  ratified here in plenary, it should not come back to haunt us like a ghost.
10.10 Now that is all I have to say on document C/119, I am almost finished,  Mr President. I can support the resolutions in document C/li1 - Part I, Annex-  Recommendations, but I have a particular word to say about the one on page 3 and  page 4, concerning supplementary estimates. There was some controversy about the  last three paragraphs and the document before us indicates that a number of  statements of reservations were made. I want to place it on record that Canada  distances itself from the reservations by some other members of the Western  group. In the Administrative Commission, Cariada gave its moral and other Support  to the idea that is reflected here; we do so now and we place on record that we  have no reservations whatever about the ideas expressed in the last three  paragraphs. I am saying that for the peace of mind of the co-sponsors who may  have been disâppointed by my not being a little more aggressively defensive of  their interests last week. Now I have done my duty, I discharge a debt of honour,  and that is all I have to say, Mr President, about these draft resolutions. Thank  you.
(11.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Canada.
(11.2) The General Committee would like to make clear to delegates that they  should decide on the draft resolutions which have been submitted to them without  entering into a discussion of the criteria applied by the Secretariat. I ask the  delegates to take account of these clarifications of the General Committee.
(11.3) I also note that the delegation of Venezuela does not apparently accept the  proposal submitted for its approval at this plenary meeting. I understand that the  proposal of the second speaker is in practical terms to replace the term  'provisional budget ceiling' by the single word 'budget'. The other observations  will appear in the records but are not relevant to the text of the draft resolution  submitted to the plenary.
(11.4) The delegate of Argentina has the floor.
(12.1) Mr LANUS (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. I am going to be brief, taking into account what  you have just told us. However, I must make some short comments on  document 24 C/BUR/27, which contains the draft resolutions submitted for the  consideration of this plenary meeting.
(12.2) First of all, my delegation approves the provisional budget ceiling of  $350,386,000 for 1988-1989. However, in view of the statements made by the  Secretariat and the content of the document, I should like to make three  clarifications.
(12.3) Firstly, the Administrative Commission has approved a draft resolution for  submission to the plenary in which it is proposed that a sum of $300,000 for the  Medical Benefits Fund and $1,000,000 for draft resolutions approved by this assembly  be added under Parts I to VI of the budget.
(12.4) In the same way, just as at the Sofia meeting, the Executive Board decided  that a lapse factor of 5 per cent should be applied in staff management, which means  that a number of posts have to be kept vacant. This decision, which has already been  adopted by the Executive Board, confirms the approach adopted implicitly in the last  budget and has also just been approved by the Administrative Commission. We are  therefore surprised to see a sum of $4,119,000 to meet a potential deficit by  reducing staff turnover reappear in document 24 C/BUR/27.
(12.5) Secondly, the Commission has also approved the inclusion under Part VI of  an additional sum of $3,500,000 for the Working Capital Fund in order to finance the  unamortized construction costs of Headquarters buildings.
(12.6) Subject to these reservations, we are prepared to approve the provisional  budget ceiling. Nevertheless, I feel we must make sure that the budget and the  figures which are being approved by the various commissions, are consistent, because  if we add the recommendations of other commissions to those of the Administrative  Commission, the amount calculated by the Secretariat would not cover the costs  involved. I wonder, therefore, Mr President, how those figures are going to be  reconciled and what they are going to cover, since the document before us says that  we may now already have a deficit of several million dollars. Thank you,  Mr President.  a53
(14.1) Mr EL-BAKR1 (Sudan) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. First I would like to thank the Chairman of the  Executive Board for his introduction to this subject, and the Chairman of the  Administrative Commission for his clear presentation of these complicated matters.
(14.2) Mr President, the Sudan is also one of those countries with economic  difficulties and its debts rival those of the other debtor nations of the Third  World. However, as Mr Wilson, the delegate of Canada, has just said, the subjects we  have before us have been thrust upon us by a budget to which we have so far not made  any opposition, even though we are not in total agreement with it. I also agree with  Mr Wilson that some of the concepts that have been used should be changed. You have  agreed, Mr President, that these changes should be made in the resolutions  themselves so that instead of speaking about budget ‘ceilings’ we shall henceforth  refer to a ‘temporary’ budget which can be modified in accordance with  circumstances. In fact, as the delegate of Canada has just said, the notion of a  ceiling contradicts the concept of ‘supplementary estimates’; for if we had a true  budget ceiling, it would make no sense to approve supplementary estimates over and  above it.
(14.3) Mr President, we support the proposed resolution as presented by the  Chairman of the Administrative Commission. This means that the approved budget  should include the three mandatory figures that he mentioned, even though we believe  that the sum of $lmillion for draft resolutions is in fact a form of assistance  from the rich countries to the developing countries and this sum has in fact been  distributed among the various commissions. We wish that this had not been done, but  as long as the Administrative Commission has agreed to include this sum in the  budgetary estimates as well, so be it.
(14.4) I would also like to support the proposal of the delegate of Canada that we  should approve these figures, subject to the reservations and qualifications  expressed by the Chairman of the Administrative Commission. We hope that later on,  the Secretariat will be able to remove this deficit, for which we do not yet have an
27  exact figure: it may reach $12 million or only $8 million, depending upon how  efficiently the Organization is run in the future.
(14.5) In brief, Mr President, despite the difficult economic situation in Sudan  today, I propose that we support the proposal of the delegate of Canada and approve  this draft resolution, subject to the conditions put forward by the Chairman of the  Administrative Commission. Thank you, Mr President.
(15)  Socialist Republic now has the floor.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Sudan. The delegate of the Ukrainian Soviet
(16.1) Mr ZLENKO (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic) (Translation from the  Russian) :  Thank you, Mr President. Like other speakers before me, I want to thank the  Chairman of the Executive Board for his accurate and lucid presentation of the item.  At the same time, I would like also to thank the Deputy Director-General for his  explanations. As we all know, the substance of the matter has been discussed in the  General Committee, where the exchange of views resulted in the preparation of a  corresponding draft resolution.
(16.2) To my mind, the discussion on the provisional budget ceiling resulted in an  attitude that I would qualify as not entirely unanimous. The matter is, of course, a  complex one, and it is not all that easy to understarid the techniques of budgeting.  As. far as the budget. ceiling is concerned, we know - and the Chairman of the  Executive Board has recalled - that the matter was examined at the two most recent  sessions of the Board, which came to the conclusion that the Director-General must  absorb any increased costs within the budget ceiling based on the principle of zero  growth. At the moment, as we know, the total additioiial increase amounts to  $1,533,000 and is related to the recosting exercise and the provision for Part VII.  At the same time, when we talk about the budget ceiling, we cannot neglect a number  of circumstantial issues related not only to the further effectiveness of Unesco's  own activities, but also to a whole series of objective difficulties that are  currently confronting Member States. Obviously, under such conditions, sacrifices  must be made by everyone: this was what I understood from the intervention by the  distinguished delegate of Venezuela, who also spoke clearly and precisely on the  matter.
(16.3) It must be pointed out that the decision concerning zero real growth  insists that there shall be no recosting on the basis of any indicator that, in  regard to the following budgetary period, appears hypothetical. How, in fact, can we  fail to recognize that document 24 C/5 was prepared on the basis of proven  hypotheses and that it is not altogether justifiable to recommend to the General  Conference a modified budget ceiling? Lastly, I should like to ask one final  question. The propo8al of a budget ceiling first amounting to $348,833,000, and now  to $350,386,000, places us - frankly - in a somewhat difficult position. This was,  incidentally, pointed out in the General Committee by one of the distinguished  delegates. You see, our instructions on the matter were prepared on the basis of one  figure; now, in the course of its deliberations, the General Conference has been  brought up against another, somewhat higher figure. Of course, this is not the real  issue - the increase is of no great significance and could, as I have already  suggested, be written off as a necessary sacrifice. But principles are principles,  and we should, I think, stick to the agreement that was reached when the question  was discussed at the two sessions of the Executive Board I mentioned earlier. The  question that arises here is this: have all the possibilities of avoiding such an  increase been exhausted; are there any reserves - including possible savings - that  might be realized, without of course and as has already been stated cutting into the  substance of the programme? I think that it might be well to receive once again some  clarifications on this matter; in the light of those clarifications, we should be  able to define our position more clearly. Thank you, Mr President.  El PRESIDENTE:  Agradezco su intervención al delegado de la República Socialista de  Doy ahora la palabra a la delegada de México.
(18.1) Mrs UGARTE (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, I should first of all like to support the draft resolution  proposed in paragraph 8 of document 24 C/119. For the proposed budgm ceiling or  limit of $350,386,000 comes to us as the result of recommendations from the  Executive Board and the Administrative Commission of the General Conference and has  been arrived at by a strict application of budgetary techniques.
(18.2) However, Mr President, I must point out that although the budget was based  on zero growth, in economic terms it represents a very considerable increase in the  contributions of Member States - over 30 per cent - due mainly to currency  fluctuations.
(18.3) Despite this large increase, my country supports the goals of our  Organization and we will thus do all we can to ensure that the integrity of the  programme is maintained. We therefore approve the budget ceiling of $350 million.
(18.4) Mr President, I should like to point out that the problem of currency  fluctuations does not affect all countries equally. For some, whose national  currencies have strengthened in relation to the dollar in the last two years, it  poses no problem, because their financial contribution to Unesco will not have  increased in real terms. However, for our countries, whose national currencies have  depreciated Considerably in relation to the United States dollar, the 30 per cent  budget increase due to currency fluctuations must be added to the rates of  depreciation of our currencies, It will thus impose a great strain on us to meet the  heavy obligation which has resulted from currency fluctuations.
(18.5) I should now like to refer to paragraph 9 of the document which we are  studying, in which it is maintained that a potential deficit of $12,944,000 is  expected. Mr President, in our opinion, this sum cannot be presented as a potential  deficit. Both the Executive Board and the Administrative Commission of the General  Conference have adopted decisions and recommendations asking that the expenditures  in question be included within the budget base. Most of these decisions were taken  quite some time ago, before the preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget for  the next biennium. Our view at this stage, which involves the preparation of 24 C/5,  is therefore that the Secretariat ought to have already taken the necessary measures  to adjust the programme and budget accordingly. We cannot therefore agree that this  be considered as a potential deficit. These sums should be taken into account in the  budget base; and if in order to do that we must cut down on some programme  activities, then we will do so, Mr President, no matter how difficult and painful  that may be.
(18.6) To sum up, despite the strain of having to increase its contribution by
30 per cent, our country accepts the budget ceiling of $350 million, but no more;  and we ask that these additional expenses be included in the budget base. As regards  the proposal of Canada, Mr President, we find it acceptable. We have no objection to  the deletion of the term 'budget ceiling'. Thank you very much.  a57
(19) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Mexico. The delegate of Brazil now has the floor.
20 * Mr VARGAS (Brazil):  Thank you, Mr President. We would also like to express our thanks for  the report presented to the General Conference and to support the draft  resolution as it is proposed in paragraph 8 of document 24 C/119. Mr President,  we had a lengthy discussion in the Administrative Commission, and we would think  that a consensus was arrived at on that occasion and that certain of our  colleagues would express reservations - which we do not - regarding the ceiling  of $350,386,000. So, Mr President, I am not proposing in any way that we close  the debate but would appeal to our colleagues not to reopen the discussion that  has taken place in the Administrative Cormission and to make the reservations  which they made there and to proceed with our work. Regarding the supplementary  estimates, I think we are dealing with another topic, and perhaps if necessary we  shall come back to them. Thank you very much, Mr President.
(21) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Brazil. The delegation of India now has the floor.
22.1 Mr RA0 (India) :  Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by stating on behalf of  the Indian delegation that we fully support the draft resolution in paragraph 8,  which decides that the provisional budget ceiling for 1988-19&9 shall be  $350,386,000. Having said that, Mr President, I would like to make some obser-  vations on one or two points that came up in the statements of the delegations  that spoke previously.
22.2 First of all, I think it would be good to recall that the word 'budget  ceiling' was introduced in Unesco procedures not because it was in the Consti-  tution but as a precaution, so that when all the programme commissions met they  knew that there was a ceiling beyond which they should not go. As you know,  Mr President, later in the General Conference there will be a joint meeting of  all the programme commissions and the Administrative Commission, and it is iit  that time that the budget appropriation of the Organization will be established  on a definitive basis. So my preference would have been, Mr President, that we  leave the expression 'budget ceiling', firstly because it is a sort of  protection. Moreover, you will recall that, under the procedure for the budget  ceiling debate, there could have been severãl resolutions in front of us when the  General Conference opened. A Member State might have recommended, for example, a  figure of $370,000,000. There could have been resolutions proposing less than  $350,000,000. In fact, there is even a procedure which says that the first figure  that has to be voted in such circumstances is the one which is furthest away from  the proposal of the Director-General.
22.3 This year, Mr President, we are in a very happy position. There was a  proposal from the Director-General which was based on the budgeting techniques  that had been approved, and which were faithfully applied. As Mr Wilson said,  there is the zero budgeting figure of some $313,000,000, to which were added the  recosting figures, the Appropriation Reserve and the amount necessary due to  currency fluctuation. It so happens, Mr President, that we have before us one  resolution, which is the same as the proposal of the Director-General and the  same as the recommendation of the Executive Board. And this provisional budget  ceiling figure is a guide to all the programme commissions which are holding  their sessions. One could, in fact, logically say that this should have been  decided on the very first day. But, due to a variety of reasons, the decision is  taken generally after the policy debate. So my preference would have been,  Mr President, that the resolution should stay as it is, with the words  'provisional budget ceiling'. However, since the main issue is 'what is the  provisional budget ceiling that is to be established?', I wanted to tell the  plenary that we fully support the figure of $350,386,000. Thank you,  Mr President.
(23) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  the floor.  I thank the delegate of India for his statement. The delegate of France has
24.1 M. GRASSIN (France) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. La délégation française ne souhaite pas  rouvrir le débat sur le texte proposé cet après-midi à la Conférence générale,  qui a fait l'objet de débats approfondis tant au sein de la Commission adminis-  trative que du Conseil exécutif OU, je crois, la plupart des arguments ont déjà  été exposés.
24.2 A ce stade, la France voudrait se limiter à faire deux observations. La  première est que le projet de résolution qui est présenté, et donc, le plafond  qui y est proposé, donnent à l'Unesco les moyens de fonctionner ; et ceci, la  délégation française ne peut que s'en féliciter. En effet, ce projet permet  d'éviter, nous semble-t-il, les coupes impressionnantes dans le programme que  certains préconisaient ou redoutaient. L'intégration des dépenses obligatoires à  hauteur de 12 millions se répercutera, certes, sur le titre II, c'est-à-dire sur  le programme, mais aussi sur tous les autres titres. NOUS avons l'espoir que les  économies qui devront résulter n'entameront pas l'intégrité du programme. La  délégation française suggère d'ailleurs que le Conseil exécutif soit invité,  chaque fois qu'il se reunira, à assister le Directeur général dans la détermina-  tion des économies qu'il sera nécessaire de réaliser, en ce qui concerne surtout  le choix des postes de dépenses touchés par ces economies.
24.3 Le second point est que, même si, comme je le crois, le facteur inté-  grité du programme a finalement prévalu sur le souci d'économie, ce projet de  budget pour le prochain exercice biennal traduit indiscutablement un effort de  rigueur. J'en veux pour preuve le fait que le principe de la croissance zéro,.?  été respecté, mais cela, nous le savons, fait l'objet d'un consensus deia  ancien. D'autres éléments - dont certains ne sont pas soumis à notre examen Cet  après-midi - traduisent également un certain effort de rigueur. Ainsi, la tech-  nique consistant à établir le budget en deux monnaies a été évoquée, de façon à  mettre fin aux "mauvaises surprises" dues au glissement des monnaies. Les  dépenses obligatoires que j'évoquais tout à l'heure ont été également intégrées  au plafond au lieu d'y être ajoutées. Au total, je crois que l'organisation a  fait la preuve, à l'occasion de l'examen de ce projet de budget, qu'elle était  capable de maîtriser ses dépenses, ce qui constitue, aux yeux de la délégation  française, une condition indispensable à son bon fonctionnement et à sa bonne  continuation. Pour toutes ces raisons, Monsieur le Président, la France approuve  sans réserve le plafond qui est proposé. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
(25) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of France. The delegate of Australia has the floor.
26.1 Mr MOTT (Australia) :  Mr President, the Administrative Commission though operating in diffi-  cult circumstances, has had a productive session in this Conference, marked by a  spirit of goodwill among delegates and a willingness to reach recommenäations  that seek to accommodate the wishes of Member States and the interests of Unesco.  These recommendations will be set out in the Commission's report. In the normal  way of things, all of the recommendations do not please all delegations,  including my own; but the overall result is reasonable enough. The Australian  delegation is prepared to join in a decision here in this plenary, to be taken by  consensus we hope, on the provisional budget ceiling.
26.2 I am instructed, however, to express concern at the high rate of growth  of this budget. We have a budget constructeä on a base of zero real growth. Into  that base must be absorbed various items listed in document 24 C/119. We welcome  here, as elsewhere in the United Nations system, the acceptance of zero growth.  But with the addition to the base of proposed sums to cover inflation and  currency fluctuation, we have a final budget figure of just over $35U million.  This will result in an increase in terms of United States dollars of more than
20 per cent above the budget adopted for 1986-1987 at the last session of the
859    General Conference. Including supplementary estimates, which we shall consider  later, Member States will have to pay in 1988, directly or indirectly, some  $100 million more than the amount originally assessed for the 1986-1587 biennium.  This is a huge sum. We look to the implementation of strict budgetary discipline  to contain and reduce expenditure in 1988-1989.
26.3 I must add that Member States also have a part to play in budgetary  discipline and proper financing of Unesco. Their responsibility lies in meeting  the obligation to pay their contributions in full and on time. In the difficult  financial period ahead, we urge acceptance of this responsibility in regard to  contributions at present outstanding and due in the future. States will also be  required to take programme decisions that will result in the most effective use  possible of resources. Thank you, Mr President.
(27) The PRJ3SIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Australia. The delegate of Yugoslavia has the floor.
28.1 Mr CICANOVIC (Yugoslavia) :  Pir President, our views concerning the budget were expressed in the  Executive Board during its last two sessions, as well as in the Administrative  Commission, so I shall not go into detail concerning the matter before us. I  would, however, like to record the views of my delegation concerning the draft  decisions that we are faced with at this moment.
28.2 We have as a first principle, Mr Presiderit, stressed that the delegation  of Yugoslavia, like the majority of delegations, favours a zero-growth budget; at  the twenty-third session of the General Conference in Sofia we called for the  adoption of such budgeting techniques as would protect the interests of all  Member States - particularly the developing countries - from the shocks and  increases of obligations as a result of various monetary fluctuations. However,  the general feeling was not favourable to that suggestion at the tinte, since the  situation in the world monetary market was different. In consequence, the old  budgeting techniques have cost the Organization and its members some $40 million  during the 1986-1987 biennium. They have also resulted in a considerable increase  in the proposed budget ceiling €or 1988-1989. I do not question, Mr President,  the application of these techniques by the Secretariat or the Director-General;  what I am saying is that we feel that the budgeting techniques should be reviewed  and changed in order to prevent the growth of the budget.
28.3 My delegation still feels that Unesco should follow the example of other  agencies of the United Nations system and adopt budgeting techniques which would  protect the budget from the whims of the monetary market, and which would be  therefore in the interests of all of us, and the Organization.
28.4 Mr President, as we have already stated in the Executive Board and in  the Administrative Commission, we feel that the serious and prolonged economic  and financial crisis in the world has had most unfavourable efZects upon the  developing countries, particularly because of the heavy debt burden imposed upon  them. Therefore the problem of increased contributions is at the centre of our  attention.
28.5 Yugoslavia is among those developing countries considered as 'medium'  contributors whose national budgets are hit most by the fluctuation of the United  States dollar. Our contribution is currently growing at a rate of about 30 per  cent, or close on $600,000 (I am referring only to the growth of the contri-  bution), and we therefore have very serious reservations; we cannot accept a  proposed budget ceiling which, as is stated in the document before us, envisages  even further unforeseen increases in the future. This wâs rather clearly  expressed in the proposal of the distinguished delegate of Canada when he  questioned the word 'ceiling'.
28.6 Mr President, these reservations do not mean in any way that if there is  a consensus here in the General Conferepce, we shall try to prevent it. We do,  however, wish our reservations to be officially recorded; and of course if there  were a vote, then in that case my delegation would abstain.
28.7 Mr President, recently when our Organization was faced with serious  financial problems due to the withdrawal of some of its members, quite a number  of developing countries, including Yugoslavia, made voluntary contributions in  order to help the Organization. The financial situation facing Unesco today calls
27  for maximum efforts in accordance with the real possibilities of the entire  membership in order to solve the problems of the Organization. We would therefore  expect, as it is mentioned in the draft decision before us, that those countries  which are able to do so will consider helping the Organization by making  voluntary contributions to the budget. Thank you, Mr President.
(29) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Yugoslavia. The delegate of Cameroon has the floor.
30.1  nous ont  M. NDAM NJOYA (Cameroun) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. A la suite des honorables délégués sui  precedes, nous tenons à signaler combien nous apprécions le travail qui  a été fait d'abord par le Conseil exécutif en liaison avec le Secrétariat, puis  dans le cadre de la Commission administrative. Cela nous conduit a dire que nous  nous joindrons au consensus qui pourrait se dégager - ce que nous souhaitons -  pour l'adoption du projet de résolution qui figure au paragraphe 8 du document
30.2 La raison est qu'il s'agit d'un budget de rigueur qui s'articule autour  des priorités - et, si je puis dire, se situe à l'intérieur des priorités - qui  ont été déterminées grâce à une coopération étroite entre le Secrétariat et le  Conseil exécutif et approuvées suivant les techniques budgétaires appropriées,  un travail minutieux qui s'est poursuivi dans le cadre de la Commission  administrative.
30.3 En adhérant à ce consensus, nous pensons que cette coopération va se  poursuivre lors de l'exécution de ce budget et que le Conseil exécutif, en  collaboration avec le Secrétariat, recherchera les moyens de réaliser des écono-  mies ou de mobiliser éventuellement d'autres sources de financement en vue d'at-  teindre les objectifs définis dans le programme, en tenant compte du fait, comme  l'ont souligné certains délégués, que certains pays dont le nôtre, qui subissent  les conséquences de la crise, se trouvent dans une situation leur Permettant  difficilement d'accepter de nouvelles charges. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le  Président.
(31) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Pakistan has the floor.  I thank the delegate of Cameroon for his statement. The delegate of
32.1 Mrs INAYATULLAH (Pakistan) :  Thank you, Mr President. We like other delegations would like to thank  the Chairmen of the Executive Board and the Administrative Commission and the  reoresentative of the Director-General for their introduction to agenda c - -  - -  - -  -~ _ _   item 5.3 - Adoption of the provisional budget ceiling.
32.2 Mr President, the proposal which we are required to consider is  contained in the draft resolution. It has two operative paragraphs. The first,  paragraph 8, places the budget ceiling at $350,386,000. This figure is supported  by my delegation because it is noted that the budgetary techniques and financial  procedure approved by the General Conference have been strictly followed in  calculating the figures. Secondly, the General Conference decision to apply zero  real growth has been applied in calculating the budget. The budget base used in  the calculation is $313,000,000. The Executive Board budget ceiling is  $348,833,000 and this has, as we know, increased to $350,386,000 because the  inflation rate is 3.2 instead of 2.5 per cent.
32.3 Mr President, it is noted that some concern has been expressed at the
20 per cent increase over the figure for the last biennium. We wish to reiterate  that accounting for the inclusion of inflation is integral to the preparation of  a zero real growth budget. Otherwise, we will be applying the negative growth  principle of budgeting. We believe this view will be supported by other  delegations.
32.4 Mr President, regarding the second paragraph, paragraph 9, my delegation  takes note of the deficit of approximately $13,000,000 and considers that every
861    effort should be made to absorb this amount in the $350,386,000 budget ceiling.  It is essential we impose restraint and financial discipline. The starting-point  cannot be a $13,000,000 deficit. Accordingly, we would like to propose that the  Executive Board examine and approve the economies and adjustments recommended by  the Secretariat which will adjust and absorb the present deficit. In this regara,  the following guiding principles are proposed: (1) the integrity of the programme  component of the budget should be retained; (2) economies and adjustments should  be made in staff costs, travel, overtime, temporary staff, etc.; (3) and,  possibly the most important, an overall review of the Organization's structure  and staff should be undertaken with a view to improved financial management and  economies.
32.5 In conclusion, Mr President, my delegation would like to thank the  Executive Board and Secretariat for having once again strictly followed the  instructions to prepare the biennial budget at zero growth level. However all of  us, the Member States of Unesco, look forward to constructing the third Medium-  Term Pian on a real-growth basis, thereby ensuring that the Organization is not  only sustained but äeveloped. Thank you.
(33) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Pakistan. The delegate of Gabon now has the floor.
34. M. NYALENDO (Gabon) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais me référer à l'exposé du  Président du Conseil exécutif, à celui du Président de la Commission administra-  tive aux travaux de laquelle j'ai participé, et aux explications du Directeur  général adjoint. Mon pays, Monsieur le Président, appartient à l'hémisphère Sud  et compte donc parmi ceux qui sont les plus touchés par la crise économique mon-  diale actuelle. La contribution qu'il verse, même si elle ne représente que 0,3 %  du budget, est un effort plus important pour mon pays que pour un pays gros con-  tribuant. Cependant, nous avons le souci du bon fonctionnement de l'Organisation.  Nous estimons en effet que le chiffre de 350.386.000 dollars figurant au para-  graphe 8 du document 24 C/119 est un minimum au-dessous duquel il n'est pas  souhaitable qu'on descende. C'est pour cette raison que ma délégation est favo-  rable au plafond budgétaire proposé. Je vous remercie.
(35)  the list, the delegate of Nigeria.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Gabon. I now give the floor to the last speaker on'
36. Mr OLANIYAN (Nigeria) :  Thank you very much, Mr President. We would like to thank the Chairman  of the Executive Board, the Deputy Director-General and the Chairman of the  Administrative Commission for the light they have shed on this topic.  Mr President, the economic situation in my country is similar to the one  described by the distinguished delegate of Venezuela. But, in spite of these  problems which necessitate the tightening of belts in all aspects of our national  life, we are able to support the draft resolution on the budget ceiling of  $350,386,000. We do so, Mr President, conscious of our total commitment to the  fulfilment of the objectives of Unesco and because we are convinced that the  Director-General has been faithful in his application of the budgetary  techniques. Mr President, if the word ceiling is causing some discomfort to some  people, my delegation would not oppose its deletion; but I must say that we are  impressed by the sound argument of the distinguished delegate of India who  advocated our retaining the word ceiling in describing our budget. Finally, we  would like to appeal to members to allow the serene atmosphere that has so far  characterized this session of the General Conference to motivate -us to approve  this budget ceiling by consensus. Thank you, Mr President.
(37.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Nigeria. The discussion is now closed. As regards  the draft resolution submitted in document 24 C/lll, Part I, Annex-Recommendations,  we have so far heard no comments in any of the statements made. I wonder if we may  therefore consider this draft resolution to be approved.
(37.2) I give the floor to the delegate of Canada.
38. Mr WILSON (Canada):  Thank you, Mr President. A small point of order: it may be that I did  not make myself sufficiently clear, but I said that Cariada supported all the  texts in this document. You just said that no delegate had mentioried them, but in  fact I did. Canada supports and accepts them. Thank you.
(39.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  resolution, which would, accordingly, be approved by consensus.
(39.2) As regards the draft resolution submitted in document 24 C/119, all the  speakers have made various comments, some specifically on paragraph 9 and others on  the general approach to the matter. These comments have generally been preceded by  the request that they be put on the record - a right which will, of course, be  observed.  I meant to say, Mr Wilson, that I had not heard any objection to the draft
(39.3) As regards the provisional budget ceiling of $350,386,000 the delegation of  Venezuela has expressed reservations which it wished to be placed on record. The  delegation of Yugoslavia has also expressed objections while pointing out that,  despite differences of opinion, it would not oppose the adoption of the proposal by  consensus. Moreover, Canada criticized the expression 'provisional budget ceiling'  and Mexico agreed with that criticism. We shall refer to this point after submitting  the proposal for the approval of the plenary.
(39.4) As no objections have been made, the sum of $350,386,000 is aDDrOVed by  consensus.
(39.5) As regards the motion of Canada regarding the expression 'provisional  budget ceiling', the Secretariat points out that it has been used at other sessions  of the General Conference. I ask the distinguished delegates if they wish to discuss  the matter and if the word 'budget' can be substituted for the expression used. The  delegate of Canada has the floor.
40. Mr WILSON (Canada):  Yes, Sir, I did before. May I ask you, Mr President, whether I may say  something concerning the statement made by the distinguished delegate of India?  It may be totally Unnecessary, but there was some pursuit of his opposition. And  if there is to be a discussion, I would like to speak on that. But if there is  going to be no discussion, my formal motion stands. Thank you, Sir.
(41.1)  shall, then, proceed now to discuss the motion submitted by Canada.
(41.2)  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  It would perhaps not be appropriate to open a discussion on the subject. We  I give the floor to the delegate of Kuwait.
(42) Mr AL-SALEM (Kuwait) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. We have heard the distinguished delegates of  Canada and India, who raised the point of the past uses of this term and we, in  turn, would like to ask the legal adviser or the Secretariat to clarify the  implications of deleting or retaining this term so that we can take a position on  .the matter. Thank you.
(43) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Kuwait. I give the floor to the Deputy  Director-General so that the Secretariat can explain its position on the question  under discussion.  tion de  modifier
44. Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL ADJOINT :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Personnellement, je comprends assez bien  la logique du représentant du Canada. Cependant, je dois signaler que l'usage de  ce terme de plafond budgétaire n'est pas seulement une question de pratique. I1  faut souligner qu'il est employé non seulement dans les résolutions adoptées par  la Conférence générale à sa dernière session mais également dans les décisions  adoptées par le Conseil exécutif à ses dernières sessions. Par ailleurs - et  c'est une objection plus formelle encore - je voudrais souligner qu'il figure  expressément dans le texte du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale, à  l'article 78B intitulé "Propositions visant le plafond budgétaire". Ce terme  étant ratifié par le Reglement intérieur lui-même, je me dois d'attirer l'atten-  la Conférence générale sur la réflexion qui s'impose si l'on souhaite  les textes. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le PréSident.  El PRESIDENTE:  Muchas gracias, señor Director General Adjunto. Tiene la palabra el  de la India.
(45)  the floor.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Director-General. The delegate of India has  Ms GHOSE (India): I  Thank you. very .much, Mr Pre,sident. We just wanted to clarify a further  issue. Are we now approving a provisional budget or a budget ceiling? Because our  understanding is that the budget itself can only be approved much later in the  Conference, after _all the programme commissions have finished their work. What we
27  are required to do at the present moment is to approve a figure and not the  budget per se. We do not wish to make an issue of this: if there is an agreement  thãt we can live without the word ceiling, we would be happy to go along with  this; we do not wish to upset any general consensus. But I do think that there is  a problem in understanding, .our understanding of the issue; because with the  deletion of the word 'ceiling', it would seem to appear that we are approving a  budget. Thank you.
(47.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I believe that what was voted was a maximum provisional budget ceiling of  $350,386,000. We are now concerned with the term used in the resolution proposed by  the Secretariat, which was used in previous documents. Accordingly, the words, but  not the substance, of what we have just approved, can be changed.
(47.2) The delegate of Canada has the floor.
48. Mr WILSON (Canada):  Thank you, Mr President. You were quite right in pointing out that there  is a conceptual matter lying behind the semantic question; and I think this is  quite important enough to be worth taking another minute or two about. The  arguments that I have heard against my motion are essentially driven by  conservatism and the defence of the status quo. This is precisely what troubles  me. We are here at a threshold in history, at a turning-point, and if ever there  was 2 time for this Organization - which has gone through some years of travail -  to demonstrate to the world that it is an adaptive, living organism, not a  fossilized creature living entirely in the past and never changing, fearing to  change, then this is the time. Now my real quarrel - it is a conceptual one - is  that in fact, while everybody in this room or in this city may think that we  should live comfortably with what we have said for years and never change, the  fact of the matter is that in 158 capitals out there, or 157 other capitals in  the world, the concept of a ceiling is of an upper limit that is not to be  breached. But that is not what we are doing here. If we were in fact adopting a  ceiling, we would be saying forget all about Financial Regulation 3.8, forget all  about supplementary estimates, forget about paragraph 9, forget about anything  that might happen in the next 24 months to currency fluctuations. And that would  be wrong, that would be irresponsible, it would not be forward thinking, it would  not be far-sighted. -It is not in fact a ceiling we are establishing. We are  esttìblishing a notion of a target figure. This is not the appropriation  resolution that is taken up on the last Saturday morning. No. The point is, if  you look at paragraph 7 of this document, that we shall all have a clear idea of  what magical number we will start with from which we will deduct miscellaneous  income to arrive at a figure of nearly 336 million, which is going to be divided  up according to the scale of assessment. And this is the figure we would all be  communicating to our capitals to say: start preparing your budgetary processes in  order to have your share of that money ready on or about 1 January. That is why  we are doing this today. We are not anticipating the Appropriation Resolution; we  are not approving the appropriation. That concerns the C/5, that is the business  of this plenary on the last day. What we are doing is saying, as far as our best  estimates indicate now, that we think it is probably going to cost the membership  about 350 million in the next two years. But it may cost more and it may cost  less, and we must not lose siqht of the fact that it may cost more. And we are  going to have an Appropriation Resolution, a very explicit authorization to the  Director-General to come back to us for supplementary estimates if the dollar  falls even more. And this is why it is not a de facto ceiling, it is not a de  jure ceiling. If it were, we would be saying to the Djrector-General, as some  other Specialized Agencies do in Geneva, this is all we are going to give you,  that is all you are ever going to get; and if you run out of money because of  currency problems, that's just too bad. This is what Canada wants to avoid. This  is why we want people to be alert to the implications of this and not simply  treat this as a ritualistic, rubber-stamp exercise, taking refuge in the fact  that we have always done it. And I am making a plea here for intelligent  acceptance of the idea that we need to be adaptive to the real environment in  which we now live arid in which we will be living; and that is why I insist that  the word ceiling - which can be deceiving and deceptive to Member States who may  think that once they pay their contributions there will never be supplementary  estimates, and which could mean we would not be dealing honestly with them - be  deleted. Thank you.
(49) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  the point and the significance of your motion. The delegate of Guinea has the floor.  I thank the delegate of Canada. I think that all the delegations understand
50. M. CAMARA (Guinée) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Je ne crois pas qu'il faille  changer le mot "plafond". A mon sens, la difficulté se situe au niveau du mot  "provisoire" ; or, le mot "provisoire", nous ne pouvons pas le supprimer car,  les montants sont 'calculés en dollars et la monnaie dans laquelle les dépenses  de l'Unesco sont généralement effectuées est le franc français. Compte tenu de  la tendance à la baisse du dollar et de la situation actuelle de l'Organisation,  il est difficile d'établir un budget ou un plafond budgétaire qui ne soient pas  provisoires. L'un comme l'autre sont nécessairement provisoires puisque suscep-  tibles de changement. Je pense donc, pour ma part, qu'abandonner l'expression  "plafond budgétaire" ferait peut-être plus de mal que de bien, d'autant que cela  pourrait obliger - il ne faut pas le négliger - à modifier tous les documents OU  elle figure, outre ceux de la Commission administrative : la chose pourrait avoir  des incidences budgétaires, une telle opération occasionnant des frais de papier  et un gros travail d'imprimerie. Je suis donc pour le maintien du mot "plafond".  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
(51) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Guinea. The delegate of Jamaica has the floor.
52.1 Mr WYNTER (Jamaica) :  Mr President, I was very impressed by the speech by the delegate of  Canada, and I am therefore being very careful not to justify his charge of our  becoming fossilized. I know I am getting old in the teeth and therefore I have to  be very careful that I do not fall into the trap of being regarded as a fossil.  Having said that, I am sure my frien6 from the delegation of Canada would not  mind if I simply, from a little experience of Unesco, explain why 'ceiling' has  been used and ought to continue to be used.
52.2 The purpose of this is such that this resolution should have come at the  very beginning of the Conference. It is a provisional ceiling which we adopt  early in the Conference knowing that we are going to spend four to five weeks  here looking at the different sectors of the draft programme and budget; and then  we vote the appropriâtion at the end, which becomes the budget. All that we are  saying at this stage is that the budget should not exceed $350 million or so, and  we have already agreed to that.
52.3 Mr President, I agree with the delegate from Canada because, as  conceived in the national territories of some others of us too, supplementary  estimates become a part of the budget and are not additional to it. So we have  first supplementary, second supplementary, and then at the end of the year we  have the revised budget. So I quite agree with him on that point. But as far as  the ceiling is concerned, it is really for the General Conference. The ceiling is  adopted at the early part of the Conference, and by the end of the Conference we  adopt the budget.
52.4 So I am going to ask my friend from Canaãa not to insist on our voting  on his proposal. Instead, Mr President, I am going to suggest that, as it is a  conceptual matter not just semantics, and as we came here to the Conference  prepared to discuss a ceiling at this stage and not the whole house, which of  course is the budget, then let us go ahead with the ceiling for this twenty-  fourth Conference; and then perhaps, Mr President, we could refer the excellent  suggestion of the delegation of Canada to the Executive Board for it to examine  this concept and all its implications for consideration by the twenty-fifth  session of the Conference. So let us not delay any longer on this point, which is  a very important point. I would like to urge my colleague from Canada to withdraw  the motion to strike out 'ceiling' at this stage, and to suggest that we ask the  Executive Board to consider the question in time for the -twenty-fifth session of  the General Conference.
(53)  floor.  The PRESIDEW (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank Mr Wynter, delegate of Jamaica. The delegate of Kuwait has the
(54.1) Mr AL-SALEM (Kuwait) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. A little earlier, I asked Mr de Bonnecorse for a  clarification, which he was kind enough to provide. As I understand it, there is a  legal and logical basis, and perhaps other grounds as well, for using the term  'provisional budget ceiling'. I also understand that this is a legal matter and that  the term 'budget ceiling' is used in Rule 78 B of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference.
(54.2) Mr President, we cannot take a quick decision on this matter, nor put it to  the vote. A thorough study should first be made if the General Conference wishes to  take any measures in this regard. I support the sensible proposal of the  distinguished delegate of Jamaica and would also like to propose that this matter  should be referred to the Legal Committee for examination. Thank you, Mr President.
(55) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Kuwait. The delegate of Canada now has the floor.
56.1 Mr WILSON (Canada):  Thank you, Mr President, I think we are coming to the final stage of .our  discussion. First of all, I want to make it very clear, that I have never at aily  point argued against the idea of the term ceiling being used in its proper place.  The whole thrust of my intervention was that the only proper place for the  concept of a ceiling or an upper limit is in respect of the basic budget of  $313,020,500, because that is the part that is fully within the discretionary  control of Member States, i.e. Parts I-VI and all the mandatory and  non-discretionary expenses foreseeable. I made this quite clear, so there has  never been any suggestion on my part that we tamper with Rule 78 B of the Rules  of Procedure, which is, by the way, a regulatory text and not e statutory one.  And I say to the distinguished delegate of Guinea, there is no question of  revising any text. We are talking about whether or not the concept of a ceiling  belongs here.
56.2 I agree with the distinguished delegate of Jamaica. If we had dealt with  this matter in the opening days of the Conference and if we had been focusing our  attention on the basic budget of $313 million, then all of this exercise would  have maae sense. What I wanted to protest about was that we are doing the wrong  thing at the wrong time and I very much hope that we will learn from this  experience and do better the next time. So I am happy to accept the suggestion  that has been made and I am going to withdraw my motion, to meet the request of  Mr Wynter and the distinguished delegate of Kuwait, on two conditions: one is  that it should not be referred to the Legal Committee, which is incompetent to  discuss a matter like this, but to the Administrative Commission at the next  General Conference. The second is that it should also be looked clt by the  Executive Board, which is perfectly free # give advice to the next General  Conference on what is meant by Rule 78 E3 when it refers to proposals for  increases or decreases, because if we could start thinking in terms of proposals  for positive real growth or zero real growth or negative real growth in relation  to the basic budget, we would then begin to be making some progress. We would  then start talking sense. And we would not confuse ourselves with irrelevant
867    considerations concerning currency fluctuations or what the rate of inflation  might be.
56.3 We happen to have the advantage in Unesco over many other United Nations  bodies of having some excellent budgetary techniques. I know that not everybody  is happy with them, but at least we are far ahead of the World Health "Organ-  ization and the International Labour Organisation. And we can make these  techniques work for us. So I hope that it can be accepted by this plenary today  that, in exchange for my withdrawing my motion, the matter can be referred to the  Executive Board, without necessarily having to adopt a written proposal to that  effect. We are assuming that the Executive Board, in its good sense, when  reviewing through its Special Committee the whole range of budgetary techniques  and their implications for the next two years, will come back to the General  Conference- in two years' time and advise us whether, in its judgment, we could  improve our w0rkin.g methods by limiting the concept of a ceiling, which should be  fed into the General Conference at a very early stage, and not at the late stage  which is now the case, and limited to the part that is fully within our control,  i.e. Parts I-VI and the add-ons. And if this can be agreed upon and accepted,  then I think we have a consensus and on that basic I will withdraw my motion.  Thank you.
(57.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr Wilson. I think that by withdrawing your motion you  have provided a temporary solution to the problem. The matter will be referred to  the Executive Board.
(57.2) The delegate of Japan has the floor.
58.1 Mr KURODA (Japan) :  Thank you, Mr President. At this time of the adoption of the resolution  on the budget ceiling for 1988-1989, my delegation wishes to make the following  two remarks and requests that they be duly recorded in the verbatim records of  the plenary.
58.2 Firstly, Japan supported the adoption of the budget ceiling amounting to  $350 million, Fully cognizant of the crucial importance for the Organization of  ensuring its adoption by consensus- However, our concern has not been fully  dissipated about a still higher burden to be borne by Member States in their  payment of assessed contributions for the coming biennium. Taking this  opportunity, my country expresses its earnest hope that every possible saving  measure will be taken by the Director-General during the whole 1988-1989 period,  not only to absorb the amount requested so explicitly by this Conference bu% to  reduce the future financial burden of Member States. By doing so, the Organ-  ization will be able to conquer the confidence of Member States and to prepare  the ground for its future development.
58.3 Secondly, I would like to refer to the last part of paragraph 9 of  document 24 C/119, namely, the phrase 'provided that it approves the  recommendation made by the Administrative Comniission (paragraphs 5 and 6 above),  this will entail a potential deficit of up to $12,944,200'. This statement is  unacceptable to my delegation for the same reason as a number of other delegates  pointed out: this sum of $12,944,200 must be completely absorbed within the  budget base.
58.4 I have finished the statements to be recorded in the verbatim records of  the plenary. In this connection, may I now take this opportunity to ask the  Secretariat to inform us why this specific paragraph 9 of document 24 C/BUR/27  has been added to the document. Thank you.
(59)  The delegate of Venezuela has the floor.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Japan for his comment, which will be duly recorded.
(60) Mr ORTIZ CHALBAUD (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr President. We are with the consensus, but we should  like to place on record our reservation based on the problems posed for us by  acceptance of the budget ceiling, for the reasons already given, which include the  foreign debt and the effects of currency fluctuations on contributions. Finally,  Mr President, we should like to place on record the need to improve budgetary  forecasting techniques so as to be able to deal with the deficit and inflation costs  in the future. Thank you, Mr President.
(61) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  the floor to the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.  I thank the delegate of Venezuela, whose statement will be noted. I give
(62.1) Mr BORISSOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the  Russian) :  Thank you, Mr President. The delegation of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics also joined in the consensus just reached. We might also have voiced our  concerns and reservations: the question is, after all not an abstract one; we are  talking about an increase in the contributions of all Member States and - more  specifically for us - an increase of $12 million which, you will agree, is a very  considerable sum. But in a constructive spirit and recognizing the need for change,  we accepted the budget ceiling that was proposed to us.
(62.2) Mr President, the great, world-famous humanist and philosopher, Lev  Tolstoi, said: 'People are like rivers; they are all different, yet they all have  the same fate'. That is the light in which we view our concerns, and the  difficulties of our Organization. Let me just say that our own future, and the  Organization's future, are being laid down here and now. We - in the first place the  Member States, but in equal measure the Secretariat as well - should lose no time in  assimilating the notion of our common destiny and the destiny of Unesco. We must all  share in this destiny, and take responsibility for it into our own hands. Thank you,  Mr President.
(63)  delegate of Norway has the floor.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. The
64. Mr BRAUTASET (Norway) :  Thank you, Mr President. I think at this juncture that we shoulä con-  gratulate ourselves on the fact that, although some reservations have been made,  we have reached a decision by consensus on the provisional budget ceiling for the  next biennium. Norway supports and welcomes the results of the work in the  Administrative Commission and the adoption now in this plenary session of the  General Conference. The figures included in the operative paragraphs of  äocument 24 C/119 are arrived at by strict application of the budgeting  techniques already adopted at the twenty-second session of the General Conference  and subsequent sessions of the Executive Board. The discussions and the work so  far in the different commissions of this General Conference amply demonstrate the  urgent need for a number of projects and programmes to be implemented in the  coming biennium. On the basis of this provisional decision we now have taken and  which will most likely be confirmed at a later stage of the General Conference,  the Director-General to be electeä will have the resources needed to implement  the programnie. Nobody can say it will be an easy task; but, as my neighbour, the  distinguished representative of Nigeria, stated earlier, the serene atmosphere  tonight at this plenary meeting will help him on the way. Thank you,  Mr President.
(65)  of the Syrian Arab Republic has the floor.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Norway. We take note of his statement. The delegate
(66) Mr ABD0 (Syrian Arab Republic) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. Far from opposing the consensus which has been  reached, we would like to join it. However, we would like to say that the increase  that has been' decided will affect the contributions of Member States and will be a  source of some difficulty for a number of countries, including my own. We hope, and  earnestly desire that a major part of this increase will be absorbed in the process  of rationalizing the administration and in savings on other activities. Thank you,  Mr President.
(67) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of the Syrian Arab Republic. The delegate of Japan has  addressed a direct question to the Secretariat. After the reply of the Secretariat,  we shall move on to the following item.
68. Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL ADJOINT :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais répondre brièvement au délégué  du Japon, qui s'interrogeait sur le bien-fondé du paragraphe 9 du document
24 C/119. Je crois que, lorsque le Directeur général veut faire connaître sa  position de la façon la plus claire et la plus pratique aux membres de la Confé-  rence générale, le moyen le plus aisé, le plus logique et le plus simple est de  l'exposer par écrit dans le document établi par le Secrétariat, celui donc que  vous avez sous les yeux. C'est la seule explication que je puis donner. C'est,  me semble-t-il, un droit qui ne saurait être contesté au Directeur général, celui  d'exposer sa position. Par ailleurs, le distingué délégué du Japon a indiqué  qu'il considérait cette déclaration comme inacceptable. Je dois dire qu'elle n'a
27  pas à être acceptée ou rejetée par la conférence générale, car elle ne lui est  pas soumise. I1 s'agit tout simplement de la position claire - formulée par  écrit - du Directeur général. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
(69) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Deputy Director-General.  PREVISIONS SUPPLEMENTAIRES POUR 1986-1987  SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATES FOR 1986-1987  PRESUPUESTOS SUPLEMENTARIOS PARA 1986-1987  ,QOrIOJIHHTEJIbHbIE CMETM H A  1986-1987 Tí'.  \ 9 A V  - \9h? 8L-I GOL-! Ü12S
(70) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Let us now move on to consider agenda item 16.1 (Report by the  Director-General on the budgetary situation of the Organization in 1986-1987.  Supplementary estirnates). The document for item 16.1 is 24 C/lll, Part I,  Annex-Recommendations. As I pointed out this morning, it is important that .the  General Conference give definitive approval for the supplementary estimates before  the budgetary ceiling approved by the General Conference for the 1986-1987 biennium  is exceeded. According to the estimates of the Director-General, the budget ceiling  will probably be reached and exceeded around the middle of November 1987, which will  put the Organization in a legally irregular position as of that date. We should  therefore put the matter to the vote as soon as possible. What we have before us is  a recommendation made by the General Committee of the General Conference at its  ninth meeting. This item will therefore be examined independently of our  consideration of the Report of the Administrative Commission. I now give the floor  to Mr Isaksson, Chairman of the Administrative Commission, who will introduce the  recommendations on item 16.1.
71.1 Mr ISAKSSON (Iceland), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Mr President, the draft resolution contained in document 24 C/111 -  Part I, Annex-Recommendations regarding item 16.1 was adopted by the  Adniinistrative Commission after a very lengthy and exhaustive debate on the  report submitted by the Director-General in document 24 C/40 Rev.
71.2 In particular, the central issue was the extent to which the Director-  General should be invited to operate further economies iri order to reduce the  amount of supplementary estimates resulting from the deficit under Part VI11 of  the budget (Currency Fluctuation). Since no consensus proved possible on this  point, the Commission had to decide between four alternative proposals ranging  from the one which would 'urge the Director-General to finance the remainder of  the supplementary appropriation, in excess of the available surpluses , by means  of economies' and another which would 'urge the Director-General to continue to  make further efforts of savings until the end of the current bienniuni' without  specifying any amount in the latter case.
71.3 Finally, Mr President, the Commission decided by 35 votes in favour, 8  against and 18 abstentions to adopt the alternative in paragraph 2 of the draft  resolution, which urges the Director-General to effect further budget reductions  of between $1 million and $3 million. In this connection the Commission noted,
2nd this is reflected in the draft resolution, that the Director-General has  already taken measures to absorb at least $1 million of the estimated deficit  under Part VIIï of the budget.
71.4 Nr President, the draft resolution as a whole was then adopted by  consensus with a number of delegates explaining their position.
71.5 Mr President, under the same item 16.1 the Administrative Commission  also decided by consensus to recommend a second draft resolution which appeals to  Member States that are in a position to do so to make voluntary contributions  before 31 December 1987 to reauce the Organization's financial deficit resulting  from currency fluctuations. Such voluntary contributions should be deducted from  the approved supplementary estimates for 1986-1987. It was clearly understood,  Mr President, that the adoption of this draft resolution should not be  interpreted as a reason to delay the dispatch of letters of assessment until  after 31 December 1987. Voluntary contributions .received after work has been  completed on letters of assessment could be utilized either in accordance with  decisions that the Executive Board may be required to take at its 129th session  regarding the final deficit for 1980-1987 or may be added to any savings that may  be realized up to the end of the biennium and surrendered to Member States by  analogy with the procedures foreseen under Financial Regulation 4.3. Thank you,  Mr President.
(72) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Chairman of the Administrative Commission for introducing these  documents and I now submit them to this plenary meeting. The delegate of Canada has  the floor.
73. Mr WILSON (Canada):  Thank you, Mr President. First, let nie apologize for having spoken out  of turn. I had thought that we were taking both matters together. Now I realize  why you ruled me out of order. May 1 ask for my comments on item 16.1 to be taken  into account in the present context. Thank you, Sir.
(74.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr Wilson, we shall indeed do as you say. There being no objections, the  draft resolutions contained in document 24 C/lll, Part I, Annex-Recommendations, are  avvroved.
(74.2) The delegate of the Netherlands now has the floor.
75.1 Mr VAN LOOSDRECHT (Netherlands) :  Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the draft resolution which the  General Conference has just adopted, the Netherlands has, on the whole, no great  difficulties. Although we advocated financial orthodoxy in the Administrative  Commission, we also stated in the debate that in difficult times a situation car1  arise in which regulations become too rigid and a solution has to be found. This  applies particularly to part II of the resolution.
75.2 I am, however, obliged to express on behalf of my government formal  reservations to the unnumbered third section of the resolution. There the General  Conference in paragraph 1 notes that currency fluctuations have affected the  capacity of many Member States to pay their assessed contributions. We regard  that statement as a matter which should be discussed at the proper time and at  the proper place in the Uniteä Mations system, this being the United Nations  Committee on Contributions and the Fifth Committee in New York. If Unesco accepts
27  the United Nations scale of contributions, as it does, it should abstair? from  prejudging in any way the discussions on such matters in the said forums. We  would like these reservations to be reflected in the records of this plenary  meeting of the General Conference. Thank you, Mr President.
(76)  statement. The delegate of Japan has the floor.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of the Netherlands. Note will be taken of his
77.1 Mr KURODA (japan):  Thank you, Mr President. On the occasion of the adoption of the  resolution on supplementary estimates for the 1986-1987 budget, the delegation of  Japan would like to make the following remarks and requests that they be duly  recorded in the verbatim records. In view of the economic and financial dif-  ficulties of Member States, and in accordance with Article 3.9 of the Financial  Regulatiorls, which stipulates that all possibilities of savings should be  exhausted, my country has been strongly urging the Director-General to make  maximum efforts to achieve savings in order to reduce the amount of additional  contributions to be borne by Member States in this regard.
77.2 Against this background, Japan was deeply disappointeã by the infor-  mation given by the Director-General at the last session of the Executive Board,  as well as at this session of the General Conference, that only $1 million coula  be deducted as a result of savings from the total deficit of more than  $39 million. While joining in the consensus adoption of the resolution, Japan  would like to express its earnest hope that the Director-General will make  maximum efforts up to the end of the current biennium to absorb a further  $2 million, which is the maximum range of savings indicated in paragraph 2 of the  resolution. Thank you.
(78)  The delegate of Australia has the floor.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Japan. We shall also take note of his statement.
79. Mr MOTT (Australia) :  Mr President, the Australian delegation has joined the conseiisus on the  supplementary estimates for 1986-1987. In doing so, I am instructed to express my  government's concern that greater efforts were nut made in 1986-1987 to avoid the  need for such estimates. The financial situation facing Unesco has been clear for  some time. However, insufficient spenãing discipline was exercised, particularly  in 1987. As a result, the deficit is to be met not only by diversion of miscel-  laneous ar:d other income from past and present biennia, which otherwise should  have returned to Member States, but also by further direct contributions from  Member States. We are disappointed that no action was taken to contain expendi-  tures more closely at this time of heavy financial burdens on Member States. We  hope that measures will be taken to avoid any recurrence of this situation in the  future and we believe that the recommendations of the Administrative Commission  concerning payment of contributions in two currencies offer a prospect that this  will be done. Thank you.
(80) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  delegate of Pakistan has the floor.  I thank the delegate of Australia, whose statement has been noted. The
81.1 Mr ANWAR KAMAL (Pakistan):  Mr President, my delegation has joined the conseiisus on the supple-  mentary estimates because we believe that the shortfall in the budget for
1986-1987 was caused by circumstances beyond the control of the Director-General.  Of course the same phenomenon persists today with the depreciation of the United  a73    States dollar. I should like to point out, Sir, that the additional monies that  will be required in terms of net contributions from Member States will place a  burden on all of us, but particularly the developing countries, whose currencies  in many cases have depreciated vis-&-v& the United States dollar. In fact, the  currencies of these countries are subject to a compound depreciation, namely -- vis-a-vis the United States dollar, which has in turn been subject to a  äepreciation vis-à-vis the French franc and the Swiss franc. It will therefore be  appreciated, Mr President, that the burden on developing countries will be  considerable. Nevertheless, we join the consensus in the interests of the  Organization, because we feel that its work programme shouid not suffer.
81.2 Mr President, we also supported the draft resolution at the end of the  document which appeals for voluntary contributions to help meet the deficit. We  recognize that some States which may be in a position to make voluntary contri-  butions have, at least privately, expresseä reservations and today we also heard  other reservations. My delegation would submit that, if these Member States feel  that voluntary contributions should not be made to the regular buäget as this may  not provide optimum benefit Co the developing countries, they should consider  enhancing their voluntary contributions to any of the approved programes for  which extra-budgetary resources are needed. I am sure that all delegations  present are aware 02 excellent programmes in Unesco which can achieve more  positive results if funding were available on a more liberal scale. I thank you,  Mr President.
(82.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Pakistan; we shall take due note of his statement.
(82.2) Ladies and gentlemen, we have now come to the end of our work on the agenda  items we had to examine. Before closing the meeting, I would like to remind you that  in accordance with our work schedule tomorrow morning's plenary meeting will concern  the appointment of the Director-General (item 2.1 of the agenda). The first part of  the meeting, which will last approximately one hour, will be private and I must draw  your attention to the procedural measures which apply in those cases. Only delegates  may take part, and they must wear their red badges. After the private session is  adjourned (in principle around 11 a.m.), work will be continued in public session.  Voting will then take place by secret ballot on the recommendation of the Executive  Board concerning the appointment of the new Director-General. The votes will then be  counted on this stage and to the left of the ballot box, facing towards the  auditorium in the presence of a Vice-president (India) and two tellers (Poland and  Bolivia). I should also like to point out that in accordance with the decision taken  by the General Committee at its sixth meeting, the delegations will not be invited  to take the floor after the announcement of the results of the vate.
(82.3) Before the closing the meeting, I give the floor to the Deputy  Director-General.
83.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL ADJOINT :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je me réjouis de ce que les deux impor-  tantes décisions inscrites à l'ordre du jour en matiere budgétaire aient été  adoptées par consensus. Le budget qui est arrêté pour le prochain exercice
27  biennal n'est pas tout à fait celui que souhaitait le Directeur général, mais  c'est désormais notre budget. Je voudrais vous assurer, en ce qui concerne  l'exécution de ce budget, que le Secrétariat tiendra compte des observations qui  ont,été formulées par les divers délégués. Nous ferons en sorte que les économies  soient réalisées en préservant au maximum les programmes ; autrement dit, nous  nous emploierons - et le nouveau Directeur général pourra compter à cet égard  sur ma détermination personnelle - à faire des économies, en tout premier lieu,  sur. les frais généraux.
83.2 Je voudrais par ailleurs formuler une deuxième observation, notamment à  l'intention du délégué du Japon, en ce qui concerne les économies à réaliser  d'ici à la fin du présent exercice. J'espère tres sincèrement que les mesures de  rigueur que nous avons prises se traduiront par des economies qui iront bien  au-delà du million de dollars que le Directeur général s'est engage à économiser  d'ici au 31 décembre. I1 est certain que nous ne sommes pas aidés par la chute  accélérée du dollar, qui se situe maintenant à peu près à 45 centimes au-dessous  de notre taux de référence qui est de 6,04 francs pour un dollar, mais je vou-  drais que chacun d'entre vous soit bien conscient que du côté du Secretariat, il  y a une réelle volonté de rigueur en matière budgétaire. Je vous remercie,  Monsieur le Président.  a4. El PRESIDENTE:  Agradezco a l  Director General Adjunto su intervención. Fue ésta una  sesión en la que se examinaron asuntos muy importantes. Quiero agradecerles que  la duración de las intervenciones nos permitiera concluir a las 18.15. Se  levanta la sesión.
(84) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Deputy Director-General for his statement. The matters  considered at this meeting were very important, and I should like to thank you for  the brevity of your statements, which enabled us to finish at 6.15 p.m. The meeting  is closed.  La séance est levée à 18 h.15  The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.  Se levanta la sesión a las 18.15