Trente-cinquième séance plénière
18 novembre 1987, à 10 h 20  Président : M. PUTZEYS ALVAREZ (Guatemala)  Thirty-fifth plenary meeting
(1.1) The P.RESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. .I declare open the thirty-fifth plenary  meeting. Before considering the reports of the Legal Committee, which are on our  agenda, I must communicate to you some recommendations that were adopted by the  General Committee of the General Conference at its meeting on Tuesday, 17 November.
(1.2) First of all, after a detailed analysis of the Conference's timetable of  work, the General Committee decided to recommend that the date of closure of the  proceedings of the twenty-fourth session of the General Conference be brought forward  to Friday, 20 November 1987. I submit this recommendation to the Conference.
(1.3) There being no objections, I consider that the recommendation is adopted.
(1.4) The General Committee also decided to recommend to the plenary that it keep  to the following general framework for the closing meeting of the twenty-fourth  session of the General Conference, which will be held in the afternoon on Friday,
20 November. First of all, tribute will be paid to Mr Ivo Margan, Chairman of the  Executive Board. Secondly, the Chairman of the Executive Board will deliver an  address. Thirdly, we shall have an address by the Director-General and lastly, an  address by the President of the General Conference. I submit to you this  recommendation of the General Committee.
(1.5) There being no objections, the recommendation is adopted.  MESSAGES DE FELICITATIONS RECUS A L'OCCASION DE L'INSTALLATION DU DIRECTEUR  GENERAL DANS SES FONCTIONS  MESSAGES OF CONGRATULATION RECEIVED ON THE OCCASION OF THE INSTALLATION OF THE  DIRECTOR-GENERAL  MENSAJES DE FELICITACION RECIBIDOS CON MOTIVO DE LA TOMA DE POSESION DEL DIRECTOR  GENEKAL  II03RPABklTEJIbHbIE IIOCJIAHHII iI0 CJIY'JAIO BCTYnJIEHklR B AOJIXHOCTb  I'EHEPAJíbHOTO AHPEKTOPA  CUI *dl -  ,eT*%ReE&iCp!J &B%  .JJd G.@ JLJ
2. Le SECRETAIRE :  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, je voulais vous indiquer  que d'autres messages de félicitations ont été reçus, 5 l'occasion de l'instal-  lation du Directeur général dans ses fonctions, de la part des personnalités
35  suivantes : S. Exc. M. El Hadj Omar Bongo, président du Gabon ; S. Exc.  M. Edward Seaga, premier ministre de la Jamaïque ; S. Exc. M. Mohammad Khan  Junejo, premier ministre de la République islamique du Pakistan ; S. Exc. M. El  Sadig El Mahdi, premier ministre de la République du Soudan ; S. Exc. M. Alois  Mock, vice-chancelier et ministre fédéral des affaires étrangères de la Répu-  blique d'Autriche i S. Exc. M. Phoune Sipaseuth, vice-président du Conseil des  ministres et ministre des affaires étrangères de la République démocratique  populaire lao ; S. Exc. M. Cyprien Mbonimpa, ministre des relations extérieures  et de la coopération du Burundi ; S. Exc. M. Russell Marshall, ministre des  affaires étrangères de la Nouvelle-Zélande ; S. Exc. M. Mahmoud Mestiri, ministre  des affaires étrangères de la République tunisienne ; S. Exc. M. Mahbubur Rahman,  ministre de l'éducation du Bangladesh ; S. Exc. M. Jean-Claude Ndiyo, ministre  de l'éducation nationale du Burundi ; S. Exc. M. Juan Antonio Guzmán Molinari,  ministre de l'éducation du Chili ; S. Exc. M. Fortunato Nzambi Machinde, ministre  de l'éducation de la Guinée équatoriale ; S. Exc. M. Birgir Gunnarsson, ministre  de la culture et de l'éducation d'Islande ; S. Exc. M. Gentaro Nakajima, ministre  de l'éducation et de la culture du Japon ; S. Exc. M. Fernando Cardenal Martínez,  ministre de l'éducation du Nicaragua ; le prince Angelo de Mojana, grand maître  de l'Ordre souverain de Malte ; M. Jean-Claude Paye, secrétaire général de  l'OCDE ; M. Babacar Ndiaye, président de la Banque africaine de développement ;  M. Tala1 Bin Abdul Aziz Al Saud, président du Programme du Golfe arabe pour 'les  organisations de développement des Nations Unies (AGFUND) ; M. Idriss Jazairy,  president du Fonds international de développement agricole (FIDA) ; M. Michel  Doo Kingue, secrétaire général adjoint des Nations Unies, directeur général de
1'UNITAR ; S. Exc. M. Peter Jankowitsch, ancien ministre fédéral des affaires  étrangeres de l'Autriche ; S. Exc. M. Chams El-Wakil, ancien président du Conseil  exécutif ; M. Malcolm Harper, directeur de l'United Nations Association of United  Kingdom ; M. Gerard Mansell, président de "UK Friends of Unesco". Le texte des  messages des chefs d'ì3tat ou de gouvernement sera consigné dans les comptes  rendus in extenso des séances de la Conférence générale.  RAPPORTS DU COMITE JURIDIQUE (suite)  REPORTS OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE (continued)  INFORMES DEL COMITE JURIDIC0 (continuación)  AOKJIAH DPHflMYECKOïO KOMHTETA (liP0)JOJIXEHHE)  (& +$Il +I ZJlO;  &*%i&W@&4( %)
(3.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Secretary.
(3.2) Ladies and gentlemen, we will now deal with the various reports that the  Legal Committee has submitted to the General Conference and which corresponded to the  Sollowing agenda items: 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.5, 7.6, 7.7, 7.8 and 8.1. The reports  submitted to you for consideration are numbered as follows: 24 (21121, 24 C/122,
24 Cl131, 24 Cl132, 24 CI133 and 24 Cl134.
(3.3) We will also consider the report submitted by the Legal Committee on an  amendment to draft resolution 15.8 concerning the Draft Programme and Budget for
1988-1989 which the Legal Committee examined at the request of Commission I.
(3.4) I now invite Mrs Elsa Kelly, Chairwoman of the Legal Committee, to present  these reports to the Conference. Mrs Kelly will start with the first report.
1043    Premier raDDort (document 24 C/121)
(4.1) Mrs KELLY (Argentina), Chairwoman of the Legal Committee (Translation from  the Spanish):  The first report of the Legal Committee is contained in document 24 C/121 and  refers to item 8.1 of the agenda of the General Conference on the action taken to give  effect to the Revised Recommendation concerning the International Standardization of  Statistics on the Production and Distribution of Books, Newspapers and Periodicals,  approved at the twenty-third session of the General Conference.
(4.2) According to paragraph 2 of Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference, one of the functions of the Legal Committee is to consider the initial  special reports relating to any international convention or recommendation, adopted by  the General Conference, that Member States may transmit on the action taken to give  effect thereto. Pursuant to the provisions of Article 16, paragraph 2, of the Rules of  Procedure concerning recommendations to Member States and international conventions,  an initial special report must be transmitted to the session of the General Conference  following that at which such an instrument was adopted.
(4.3) In the course of its discussions, the Legal Committee deplored the fact that  only 12 Member States had submitted reports, that most of them had been submitted out-  side the statutory time-limit and that those reports did not always answer the  questions set out in resolution 50 adopted by the General Conference at its tenth ,  session.
(4.4) The Committee also noted that some Member States might not have the necessary  facilities to enable them to comply with this resolution of the twenty-third session  of the General Conference. The Committee called for exploration of possible ways of  facilitating the submission by Member States of reports on action taken to give effect  to Unesco’s standard-settifig instruments and for reflection on such action, taking  into account the experience of other intergovernmental organizations in that regard.
(4.5) After preparing the draft resolution and draft general report contained in  the annex to document 24 C/121, the Legal Committee decided to recommend them to the  General Conference for adoption. Thank you, Mr President.
(5.1)  that the General Conference take note of the first report of the Legal Committee.
(5.2) There being no objections, the report is duly e.
(5.3) I now put to the Conference the draft resolution and draft general report  contained in the annex to document 24 C/121.
(5.4) There being no objections, the draft resolution and the draft general report  are adopted.
(5.5) Distinguished delegates, we will now consider the ninth report of the Legal  Committee. I call on the Chairwoman of the Legal Committee.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the, Spanish):  I thank the Chairwoman of the Legal Committee for her presentation. I propose  Neuvième raoport (document 24 C/122)
(6.1) Mrs KELLY (Argentina), Chairwoman of the Legal Committee (Translation from  the Spanish) :  Thank you, Mr President. The ninth report of the Legal Committee, contained  in document 24 C/122, refers to the proposed amendments to paragraph 6 of Article II  of the Constitution, relating to the withdrawal of Member States, which were submitted  by Australia and Canada, and by Venezuela. The debate turned on two main issues,  namely: (i) whether it was necessary to amend paragraph 6 of Article II; and (ii) if  so, whether the proposed amendments would entail new obligations for Member States. If  this were the case, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article XII1  of the Constitution, the proposed amendments would have to be accepted subsequently by  a two-thirds majority of Member States before coming into force.
(6.2) With regard to the first question, although the majority of Committee members  were in favour of the amendment to Article 11.6 of the Constitution, some members  maintained that it was not necessary to amend the Constitution, since its wording vas  clear. However, members who held the view that the amendment was unnecessary gave  varying interpretations of the constitutional text in question. Some understood this  paragraph to mean quite clearly that the State withdrawing, from the Organization  should pay its contribution in full for the two years of the current financial period;  others members maintained, on the contrary, that the text clearly stipulated that the  obligations of the withdrawing State were limited to one year only if the withdrawal  took effect during the first year of the financial period.
(6.3) As regards the second question, views were equally divergent. According to  some, the amendment envisaged would entail new obligations, and would have to be  accepted subsequently by two thirds of the Member States before entering into force;  according to others, the amendment would entail no new obligations for Member States  and should come into force as long as the General Conference approved it by a  two-thirds majority. In any event, the General Conference was the competent body to  decide on the matter.
(6.4) In order to reconcile, from the point of view of form, the proposals of  Australia and Canada with that of Venezuela, and in view of the expression of  divergent opinions on the two proposed amendments, the Committee formed a working  group that drafted a text in which the two proposals were combined.
(6.5) Having approved the text drafted by the working group in which the two  proposed amendments were merged, the Legal Committee decided to submit to the General  Conference the following draft amendment:  'The General Conference,  Having considered documents 24 Cl26 and 24 C/100 Rev. and taken note of the  report of the Legal Committee (document 24 C/122),  Invites the Director-General to communicate to Member States and Associate  Members, within the statutory time-limits, the text of the proposed amendment  to Article II, paragraph 6, of the Constitution in the form recommended to it  by the Legal Committee, to be considered within the context of Articles XIII  and XIV of the Constitution;  Decides to consider this draft amendment at its twenty-fifth session.'  Thank you, Mr President.
(7.1)  Committee.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mrs Kelly, for your presentation of the ninth report of the Legal
(7.2) I give the floor to the delegate of Jamaica.
8.1 Mr WYNTER (Jamaica) :  Mr President, I should like to say a word of thanks to the Chairwoman  and the Committee for considering this very important amendment with such care  and thoroughness. But I should like to ask what is the purpose, after the  Committee has considered this amendment with such care and thoroughness, and  after the working group has produced a draft which I regard as most helpful and  which found consensus in the Committee, what is the point of deferring  consideration of it until the twenty-fifth session? What is the purpose .of  sending it to Member States? What is the Director-General being asked to bring to  the attention of the Member States? What are they to consider? Are they to  consider whether this amendment involves new financial obligations, or what?  Mr President, I think we have to be very careful. If the matter has to be  deferred, and the Committee has proposed that, I would prefer that it were just  deferred, rather than trying to create questions that might not be there.
8.2 Mr President, we have a dispute with at least one Member State that has  withdrawn. We in Unesco maintain that the spirit of the Constitution - some say  the letter, according to this report - already makes it clear that a State  withdrawing in the middle of the financial year has financial obligations for the  rest of the biennium. If that is so, what we are doing in this excellent draft  from the working group is what the lawyers call acting 'out of an abundance of  caution'; if I might quote in English, we are making 'assurance doubly sure', so  that there can be no doubt that if a Member State withdraws in the middle of a  biennium it has financial obligations until the end.
8.3 So, Mr President, if we now are asking the Member States whether they  believe that new financial obligations are involved, then we are actually saying  to the Member State with which we have a dispute that it was right all along.  Because by saying now that new financial obligations are involved, and therefore  we must have a two-thirds majority in adopting this amendment, we are saying to  that Meniber State - and to all Member States who might wish to withdraw: you were  quite right; the Constitution gave you the authority to leave in the middle of  the biennium without incurring any additional financial obligations.
8.4 My submission, Mr President, is that the Legal Committee has done an  excellent job. Let us not spoil it by deferring the matter until the next session  and by sending it to the Member States, which is going to create a whole host of  apprehensions about what appears to my delegation to be a simple, straightforward  amendment to clarify the Constitution, inasmuch as the spirit of the Constitution  dictates that if a Member State is still a Member State at the beginning of a  biennium it has obligations until the end of that biennium. So, Mr President, I  do hope that, before the draft resolution is accepted, the Chairwoman of the  Legal Committee will again explain to us why the Committee feels it must be  brought to the attention of Member States and why it should be deferred until  tho next session. .And my delegation is quite prepared to vote in favour of the  draft amendment proposed by the working party and not defer it until the  twenty-fifth session. Thank you, Mr President.
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Committee to clarify the matter.  I thank the delegate of Jamaica. I call on the Chairwoman of the Legal
(10.1) Mrs KELLY (Argentina), Chairwoman of the Legal Committee (Translation from  the Spanish) :  Thank you, Mr President. The amendment to Article 11.6 was indeed discussed  ad nauseam in the Legal Committee. While there were no major difficulties in accepting  the idea that the Constitution should be amended, much time was taken up by discussion  about the legal basis on which the amendment rested, and owing to the fact that there  was a group of Member States, albeit a small one, which maintained that the amendment  created new obligations and would, in the long term, create an intractable situation  for the General Conference arid for Unesco.
(10.2) The position of those States was, inter alia, based on the fact that it was  necessary for the amendment to be accepted by Member States, after the General  Conference had approved it by a two-thirds majority. The two-thirds majority required  in the General Conference to approve the amendment was not at issue; the problem arose  afterwards, that is, when a group of States decided that the amendment could come into  force only after acceptance by a two-thirds majority of Member States, acceptance  being understood here in the sense of subsequent ratification. Against this view it  was argued that, as the amendment would give rise to no new obligations, subsequent  acceptance by two thirds of the Member States was not necessary. The General  Conference could, at any moment, find itself in the situation of not having a  two-thirds majority of Member States in favour of the amendment.
(10.3) There is therefore fundamental disagreement on the legal level. The Legal  Committee considered that the easiest way to resolve this situation was to ask Member  States to analyse it in the light of Articles XIII and XIV of the Constitution, which  lay down the necessary procedures for amending the Constitution. If the problem is one  of interpretation, reference must be made to Article XIV. The Executive Board has  already taken a stand on the matter and in 125 EXIDecision 8.1 expressed its wish that  the text be clarified in the future by an amendment to the Constitution to that  effect.
(10.4) Some members of the Legal Committee maintained that if the question was one  of interpretation, Article XIV, whereby 'any question or dispute concerning the  interpretation of this Constitution shall be ..geferred for determination to the  International Court of Justice or to an arbitral tribunal, as the General Conference  may determine under its rules of procedure', would apply. On the other hand,  amendments entailing new obligations under paragraph 1 of Article XIII required  subsequent acceptance by two thirds of the Member States.
(10.5) The majority opinion of the Legal Committee was that the text approved by the  Legal Committee should be submitted to the Member States so that, in the light of  Articles XIII and XIV, they might take a stand on the matter. Only a minority argued  that new obligations were involved; in the view of the majority, the obligations were  already stipulated in the Constitution. Perhaps our lengthy discussions may incite  some Member States to revise their position on this point, as the amendment will have  no practical consequences. This would make it possible for us to reach an agreement at  the twenty-fifth session of the General Conference. Thank you, Mr President.
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Jamaica.
12. Mr WYNTEK (Jamaica) :  Mr President, I am very grateful to the Chairwoman of the Legal Com-  mittee for her explanation, but I am afraid she has not explained to me  satisfactorily why this session o f  the General Conference could not be asked to  approve the amendment proposed by the working group by the two-thirds majority  which is necessary for the adoption o f  all amendments to the Constitution, arid  then to ask the Director-General to submit the amendment to the Member States to  consider whether it must be accepted by two thirds of the States, that is to say  whether in their view it involves new financial and other obligations. In that  way, Mr President, if the Member States are not of this view, we would know  certainly that the amendment will enter into force. If, on the other hand, the  majority write back to say they believe it does involve new obligations, then the  matter would be taken up in any case at the next session of the General ConSer-  ence. All I am asking is why we have to wait until the next session of the  General Conference to approve the draft amendment proposed by the working group.  Having said that, I won't weary you with putting my hand up again. Thank you,  Mr President.
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  requested.  Thank you, Mr Wynter. I call on Mrs Kelly to supply the explanation
(14.1) Mrs KELLY (Argentina), Chairwoman of the Legal Committee (Translation from  the Spanish) :  Thank you, Mr President. I am sorry that I was not as explicit as was  desired. I wish to explain to Mr Wynter that it seemed to us undesirable and  altogether unwise for the adoption of an amendment not to have a firm legal basis, and  for it to be necessary to take a decision subsequently concerning that legal basis. In  other words, the decision on whether or not new obligations are involved should be  concomitant with the adoption of the amendment; otherwise, what would be the legal  status of the Constitution if the question logically prior to adoption of the  amendment were not also elucidated at this session of the General Conference?
(14.2) I do not believe that these are two things that can be separated. There is to  be only one decision: either the Constitution is amended or it is not. But it is not  possible, OIL the one hand, to adopt a text to the effect that we are amending the  Constitution while, on the other, leaving open the question whether or not new  obligations are entailed. It seems to me that this would be extremely aangerous. Thank  you, Mr President.
(15)  India.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Chairwoman of the Legal Committee. I call on the delegate of
16. Ms GHOSE (India):  Thank you, Mr President. It may be helpful to point out that the text  produced by the working group of the Legal Committee is a new text. It is not the  original Australian and Canadian text, nor is it the text offered by Venezuela;  it is a brand new text. Therefore, it must be communicated to the Member States  for them to examine, and then be set before the twenty-fifth session of the  General Conference in order to see, whether there is agreement to amend the  Constitution on the basis of what is proposed. I think that this clarification  may help the delegate of Jamaica. Thank you.
(17) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Ms Ghose. I now call on the delegate of Canada.
18.1 Mr WILSON (Canada):  Thank you, Mr President. I have a small point of order. I listened with  great attention, of course, to what the distinguished delegate of India said but  I must draw the attention of the plenary to the fact that if the text in  paragraph 11 of document 24 C/122 is in fact 'a brand new text', then I submit  that it would not have been possible for it to come into existence - as in fact I  understand it diä - in accordance with Rule 105 of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference, which inter al& permits consideration, without prior com-  munication to Member States, of 'changes designed to embody .. . substantive  proposals communicated to Member States and Associate Members in accordance with  the provisions of Rules 103 and 104'.
18.2 I am contending, Mr President, and in doing so I suppose supporting the  comments by the distinguished delegate of Jamaica, that to say we are confronted  with a brand new text may be an over-simplification. What we have before us will  be seen on comparison to be a text with very, very minor elements of what I would  call cosmetic surgery, that is to say editorial changes, made as a result of the  requirement to accommodate the Venezuelan ideas on the one hand, arid the Canadian  and Australian ideas on the other. This was done, I believe, in the Legal Com-  mittee under the provisions of Rule 105. Consequently, the case for invoking the  six months notice clause - and I say this in no sense as a criticism of the  opinion of the distinguished delegate of India - has not been made to the total  satisfaction of the Canadian delegation. I do not believe that it is altogether  fair to Senator Wynter's point of view to suggest that the reason why two more  years are required 1s that we have a brand new text. I submit that that is not  the case, and perhaps the Chairwoman of the Legal Committee would care to speak -  in that capacity - and tell us whether I am right or I am wrong. Thank you.
(19) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Committee, who wishes to speak on this subject.  I thank the delegate of Canada. I call on the Chairwoman of the Legal
(20) Mrs KELLY (Argentina), Chairwoman of the Legal Committee (Translation from  the Spanish) :  Thank you, Mr President. This was indeed also a matter considered by the  Committee, and in my presentation I tried to make this point clear. I said that a  working group was set up to harmonize the two texts in order to reconcile from the  point of view of form (and 1 stress, from the point of view of form) the proposal of  Australia and Canada and that of Venezuela. This is perfectly in keeping with the  stipulations of Rule 105 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, which  states that 'the General Conference may, however, without prior communication to  Member States and Associate Members, adopt any changes in the drafts and proposals  referred to in Rules 103 and 104 which are purely matters of drafting, and to any  changes designed to embody, in a single text, substantive proposals communicated to  Member States and Associate Members in accordance with the provisions of Rules 103 and
104'. In other words, in submitting this draft resolution, the Legal Committee is  acting in strict compliance with the procedure laid down for the submission of  amendments. We have here merely a single text combining two proposals to amend  paragraph 6 of Article II, not any new proposals. Thank you.
(21) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mrs Kelly, for the information. 1 call on the delegate of Sweden.
22.1 Mr ADAHL (Sweden):  Thank you, Mr President. The fact that a number of countries have not  been in a position to participate in the work 05 the Legal Committee and the fact  that we are here faced - as was pointed out by the delegate of India - with a new  text, I think calls for some caution and points in the direction of following the  suggestion of the Legal Commitee.
22.2 I would furthermore like to point out that there are a number of  countries, and mine is one or those, which have problems in assessing the 'new  burden' aspect of the problem highlighted in many statements. I think that a  premature decision in this regard may pose a problem for some of us as regards  precedents in other international bodies with similar clauses. This is what gives  the legal department of my Foreign Ministry difficulty with regard to taking a  hasty decision along the lines proposed by Senator Wynter; and, in its wider  irriplications, it can even involve problems related to the sovereignty of States  signatories to Unesco's Constitution. I therefore think we are well äcivised to  foilow the Legal Committee's proposal.
22.3 In addition to that, I cannot really see any reason for haste. To my  knowledge there are no countries who want to leave the Organization or are in the  process of doing so. In fact, I think the impression of this General Conference  is that we are all looking forward to working within and for the Organization and  that rules which are supposed to smooth the machinery for the departure of  members from the Organization are therefore not a pressing issue. Thank you.
(23.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  there are any objections.
(23.3) Secondly, some questions have been raised and doubts expressed to which the  Chairwoman has replied, but no proposal 'has been made which differs from that  submitted by the Legal Committee.
(23.4) That being the case, I submit the proposal of the Legal Committee to the  Conference.  Thank you. First of all, we must take note of the report. I am not aware that  Note is therefore taken of the report.
(23.5) There being no objections, the proposal is adopted.
(23.6) I call on Mrs Kelly to present the second report.  Deuxième ravvort ( document 24 C/ia)
(24.1) Mrs KELLY (Argentina) , Chairwoman of the Legal Committee (Translation from  the Spanish) :  Thank you, Mr President. The second report of the Legal Committee, contained  in document 24 C/123, refers to the draft amendments to Article V, paragraph 4, of the  Constitution, proposed by Canada and Australia, on the one hand, and by Venezuela on  the other, for the purpose of specifying the duration of the term of office of a  member of the Executive Board who is a national of a State that withdraws from the  Organization. The majority of the members of the Legal Committee were in favour of  this amendment, on the grounds that it would clarify the Constitution.
(24.2) The Committee considered that the proposed amendments would entail no  fundamental alterations in the aims of the Organization or new obligations for the  Member States, and that they could therefore enter into force provided that the  General Conference approved them by a two-thirds majority, in accordance with  Article XIII of the Constitution. The Committee decided to submit to the General  Conference the text of the following draft resolution:
35  'The General Conference,  Having examined documgnts 24 Cf26 and 24 C/100 Rev.1 and taken note of the  report of the Legal Committee on that subject (document 24 C/123),  Decides to add to Article V, paragraph 4,, of the Constitution a  subparagraph (d) to read as follows:  "In the event of the withdrawal from the Organization of a Member State a  national of which is a member of the Executive Board, that member's term  of office shall be terminated on the date the withdrawal becomes  effect ive. "  Thank you, Mr President.
(25.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  second report of the Legal Committee.
(25.2) If there are no objections, I consider that the General Conference takes note  of the second report.
(25.3) You then heard the draft resolution contained in paragraph 10 of document
24 C/123, which I submit to the General Conference.
(25.4) There being no objections, the resolution is adopted.
(25.5) I call on the Chairwoman of the Legal Committee.  Thank you, Mrs Kelly. First of all I submit to the General Conference the  Dixième rapport (document 24 C/124)
(26.1) Mrs KELLY (Argentina), Chairwoman of the Legal Committee (Translation from  the Spanish):  The tenth report of the Legal Committee, contained in document 24 C/124,  refers to the proposal to insert a new paragraph 3 in Article IX of the Constitution  to provide that financial periods shall be two consecutive calendar years and that  Member States' financial contributions shall be payable for the whole of the current  financial period. This proposal was submitted by Australia and Canada. There is also a  sub-amendment submitted by the Federal Republic of Germany to the effect that the  first sentence of the aforementioned proposal should be deleted. The discussion hinged  on two main points: (i) the usefulness of mentioning the length of the financial  period in the Constitution so as to remove any ambiguity on that score; and (ii) the  extent of the financial obligations of Member States. The Committee decided in favour  of the proposal to the effect that the Constitution should also specify the extent of  the financial obligations of Member States, i.e. the two years of the biennium. The  Committee considered that this addition to Article IX of the Constitution was such as  to prevent any future differences of interpretation.
(26.2) Given the close connection between this draft amendment and the proposed  amendments to Article 11.6 of the Constitution, which are contained in the ninth  report that I have just submitted, the Committee decided to recommend that the General  Conference defer consideration of this matter until its twenty-fifth session, by  adopting the following draft resolution:  'The General Conference,  Having considered documents 24 Cl26 and 24 CI26 Add. and taken note of the  report of the Legal Committee (document 24 C/124),  Decides to postpone consideration of the proposed amendment to Article IX,  paragraph 3, of the Constitution until its twenty-fifth session.'  Thank you, Mr President.
(27.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Madam Chairwoman, for your introduction of the tenth report. First  of all, I should like to ask whether the General Conference is prepared to take note  of the tenth report.
(27.2) There being no objections, I consider that the General Conference takes note  of the report.
(27.3) Secondly, I submit the draft resolution contained in paragraph 10 of document
(27.4) If there are no objections, I consider that that resolution is adopted.
(27.5) I call on the Chairwoman of the Legal Committee, who will introduce the  Committee's fourth report.
(28.1) Mrs KELLY (Argentina), Chairwoman of the Legal Committee (Translation from  the Spanish) :  The fourth report of the Legal Committee presented to you in document
24 CI125 refers to the draft amendment to Article XV, paragraph 2, of the  Constitution, proposed by Australia and Canada, the purpose of which is to clarify the  procedure whereby a State that has withdrawn from the Organization can resume  membership. In the view of some Committee members, the Constitution is clear on this  point: a Sta.te that withdraws becomes a non-Member State and, consequently, has to  accomplish all the formalities required of a non-Member State that wishes to become a  member of the Organization. In the opinion of some Committee members, not only was  this amendment unnecessary, but it was even superfluous, and they accordingly  expressed reservations about it. On the other hand, others considered that the purpose  of the proposal was to ensure that a State which had withdrawn could clearly express  its desire to return, on the understanding that, in the interim, new amendments might  have been made to the Constituti.cn which the State returning to the Organization would  have formally to accept.
(28.2) The Legal Committee, having noted that the legal objections to which the  proposed amendments might give rise where not such as to prevent its adoption, and  that the amendment did not entail fundamental alterations in the aims of the  Organization or new obligations for its Member States, decided to submit the draft  resolution to the Conference:  'The General Conference,  Having considered document 24 Cl26 and taken note of the report of the Legal  Committee on that proposal (document 24 C/125),  Decides to amend Article XV, paragraph 2, of the Constitution by adding a  third sentence to read as follows: "A State that has withdrawn from the  Organization shall deposit a new instrument of acceptance in order to resume  membership. ''I  Thank you, Mr Presiderit.
(29) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  the delegate of France.
30. M. BOTTE (France) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. La délégation française, sans s'opposer à  un consensus sur cette proposition, rappelle qu'elle s'est opposée à ce projet  lors de son examen au sein du Comité juridique. Elle en regretterait l'adoption  pour deux raisons essentielles, d'abord parce que, sur le plan juridique, rien  dans l'Acte constitutif n'imposait une pròcédure d'une telle lourdeur et,  ensuite, parce que, sur le plan politique, cet amendement va 6 l'encontre de  l'objectif que nous poursuivons, qui est le retour à l'universalité de l'Organi-  sation. Pour ces raisons, la délégation française demande que ces observations  figurent au procès-verbal. Merci, Monsieur le Président.  I thank the Chairwoman of the Legal Committee for her presentation. I call on
(31) The PRESIDENT (Trarislation from the Spanish):  proceedings. The delegate of Japan has the floor.  I thank the delegate of France. His statement will be recorded in the
32. Mr NISHIZAKI (Japan) :  Thank you, Mr President. My government considers that the present  Constitution is very clear on this question and it is not necessary to adopt the  amendment proposed by the Legal Committee. We theref ore would reserve our  position on the amendment proposed in this document. Thank you, Mr President.
(33) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Japan. I give the floor to the delegate of Belgium.
34 * M. DE SCHUTTER (Belgique) :  Monsieur le Président, j'ai assez fait l'éloge des travaux,du Comité  juridique précédemment pour pouvoir maintenant formuler une remarque et une  réserve. Le texte du rapport est tout à fait clair : il s'agit d'une pratique de  l'Organisation et on veut la mettre par écrit. I1 n'y aurait donc pas'd'objec-  tion, du côté de la Belgique, sur le plan juridique et technique. En revanche,  nous en avons une très sérieuse, rejoignant en cela la France, sur le plan poli-  tique. Au moment OU tous souhaitent le retour de certains Etats membres, il ne  faudrait pas compliquer les choses par des procédures internes. Nous ne voulons  en aucune façon faciliter les choses sous l'angle des conditions, mais on crée  ici un obstacle qui me paraît tout A fait inutile. Je souhaiterais donc que les  réserves de la Belgique figurent au compte rendu de la présente séance. Merci,  Monsieur le Président.
(35) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you. Due note will be taken of the reservation expressed as well as  that expressed during the previous statement by Japan. I call on the delegate of  Italy.
(36.1) Mr INDELICATO (Italy) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. In the Committee, I also expressed reservations  about this amendment, for two reasons. The first is strictly legal: we cannot accept,  for reasons of principle, the creation of a new category of State that does not exist  in international law, namely, the category of ex-Member State of an international  organizatiori. In an international organization, there are members or non-members;  there is no third possibility. However, it seems that that new category is being  created by this amendment. From a purely legal point of view this seems to me absurd.  One need only refer to civil law, in which there are legal entities and entities which  are not so qualified. There are no ex-legal entities.
(36.2) On the other hand, if the intention is to assert that a State wishing to  become a member must comply with certain procedures and obligations, that is rather  obvious, and therefore unnecessary; and we are opposed to this proposal because we  have always thought that whatever is unnecessary is harmful.
(36.3) However, I believe that other delegations have doubts of a political nature.  It is not for us here to deal with the internal problems of other States, but to my  mind, this consideration should make us think very deeply. I also believe that those  who proposed this amendment were not aware of all its implications: perhaps they might  themselves be prepared to withdraw it. Otherwise we wish to have our opposition placed  on record. Thank you, Mr President.
(37) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I give the floor-to the delegate of Senegal.  I thank the delegate of Italy. We take note of his statement and his desire.
38.1 M. SECK (Sénégal) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Notre délégation a pris  connaissance du quatrieme rapport du Comité juridique avec beaucoup d'intérêt.  Nous sommes d'autant plus à l'aise pour aborder cette question que les pays qui  se sont retirés de l'Organisation sont des pays amis du Sénégal.
38.2 Nous avons bien compris que l'amendement proposé tend à consigner une  pratique qui consiste à formaliser le retour d'un Etat ex-membre par le dépôt  d'un nouvel instrument d'acceptation. Nous avons une question à poser à ce  sujet : l'insertion d'une nouvelle troisième phrase au paragraphe 2 de l'ar-  ticle XV de l'Acte constitutif signifie-t-elle que l'actuelle troisième phrase  de ce paragraphe va être supprimée ? Ce n'est en effet pas très clair à nos  yeux. Merci, Monsieur le président.
(39) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  for clarifications later. I now call on the delegate of Australia.
40.1 Mr WHITLAM (Australia) :  Thank you, Mr Presiderìt. The suggestion has been made by a recent  speaker that those who sponsored this amendment might not have considered all its  implications and might wish to withdraw it. I want to relieve his anxieties on  this score. We have considered the implications; we shall not withdraw it.
40.2 But, Mr President, the matter is not just the idea of Canada and  Australia. The Legal Committee has made eight reports on the proposal by Canada  and Australia to harmonize and reconcile the 1952 amendments to the Constitution  We take note of the question raised by the delegate of Senegal, and will ask
1057    and Financial Regulations which made the change from annual to biennial  conferences, programmes and budgets with the 1954 amendment to the Constitution  which introduced a right of withdrawal. The Canadian and the Australian proposal  embodied, word for word, all the suggestions in the report which the Director-  General made to the Executive Board at its 125th session, following a request by  the Board at its 124th session. These suggestions and the reasons €or them appear  in document 125 EX/29 Rev. of 8 November 1986, and I will read the relevant  passage concerning this section of the Canadian and Australian proposal in a  moment.
40.3 Mr President, I thought it worthwhile - as I have said - to remind the  plenary that these proposals are not just the proposals of Canada and Australia;  they are the proposals which were sought by the Executive Board from the  Director-General early in 1986, and which were supplied to the Board over a year  ago by the Director-General. The Board expressed its gratitude to the Director-  General for the quality and comprehensiveness of his report; it requested him to  transmit to all Member States a copy of it together with the corrected summary  record of the Board's debate as well as a copy of its decision; and it further  decided to report to this session of the General Conference its conclusion that  the optimum measure to eliminate any ambiguity between the 1952 amendments and  the 1954 amendment would be the amendment which was the subject of document
24 C/122 and which this General Conference, at this session, has deciàed in its  wisdom to defer till the next session in two years time.
40.4 ï want to make it clear, Mr President, that there has been plenty of  consideration of all these proposals; there has been plenty of time for everybody  to consider the implications; and it is a bit belated, I would suggest, now to  suggest that they should be withdrawn. There is nothing sinister about them. I  appreciate the fear that some delegations have that there should be any barrier  at all to the United States rejoininy Unesco. Quite frankly, the only barrier  that Unesco has erected to the United States rejoining is the fact that we still  have the American contribution for 1985 on our books, and perhaps I might seek  the opportunity to intervene in the debate on that issue when we consider the  Legal Committee's fifteenth report, in document 24 C/132.
40.5 Mr President, this portion of the proposal by Canada and Australia  merely reflects their concern to give the Conference itself the opportunity to  decide on the suggestions which the Board had sought and received from the  Director-General, and on which the Board had complimented him. That is all that  Canada and Australia have done. They have done what any Member State could have  done. They have given the General Conference the opportunity of deciding on this  matter.
40.6 Now, the reasons for this amendment are set out in document 125 EX/29  Rev., paragraph 28. This document may not be readily available to delegations, so  I shall read the fifteen lines concerned: 'The provisions of Article XV of the  Constitution, relating to its entry into force, make no mention of the procedure  to be followed by a State which, after withdrawing from the Organization, wishes  to resume membership . . . ' (let me interpolate here that there was no provision  for a Member Stäte to withdraw until eight years after the Constitution was drawn  up), and I now read on: 'The question arises as to whether it is necessary for  the State concerned to sign the Constitution again. The practice in cases where  States become parties to an international convention through the signature and  deposit of an instrument of ratification, acceptance or accession is that a State  which has denounced the convention and wishes again to become a party does not  need to sign again but must simply deposit another instrument of ratification,  acceptance or accession. This has been the position in relation to the  Constitution of Unesco. The present text of Article XV, paragraph 2, might  therefore be supplemented by the introduction of a clause reflecting the practice  followed in this matter.' There follows the text of that paragraph as it is at  present worded and which nobody, whether it be the Executive Board, the  Director-General, Canada or Australia, wishes to alter. The only proposal, in the  document from which I am quoting, is to add the words: 'A State that has  withdrawn from the Organization shall deposit a new instrument of acceptance in  order to resume membership.' There is no need for it to sign again - all it has  to do is to lodge a new instrument.
40.7 NOW, Mr President, this question was considered by the Legal Committee  and I had the privilege, and sometimes the pleasure, of attending the meetings of  the Committee as an observer, because Canada and Australia were responsible for  most of its business. As I have not spoken on this up till now, perhaps this is  the moment to say that we regret having given the Legal Committee so much work,  and to pay tribute to the care, the pains, that the Legal Committee took about  it. But let me read the answer of the representative of the Director-General, the  distinguished Legal Adviser, as appearing in paragraph 11 of document 24 C/125  before us: 'In answer to a question, the representative of the Director-General
35  confirmed that the Organization's practice for formalizing the return of an  ex-Member State was to require the deposit of a fresh instrument of acceptance of  the Constitution but not a fresh signature of the Constitution. The insertion of  an express provision in Article XV, paragraph 2, of the Constitution in the form  of the amendment proposed by Canada and Australia would have the effect of  recording that practice in the text.'
40.8 Mr President, there have been States that have withdrawn from Unesco.  They have, except South Africa, all rejoined Unesco. When they rejoined, they all  deposited a fresh instrument of acceptance. The United States was a member of the  Organization when those withdrawals took place, when the new instruments of  acceptance were deposited. It seems to me, with great respect, to be quite absurd  to suggest that the United States wduld see a barrier to rejoining Unesco in  having to deposit a fresh instrument of acceptance; after all, it never objected  to that practice when it was a member. I think we need to be relevant and  rational in pll that we do.
40.9 The Legal Committee, and I quote from paragraph 12 of its report 'noted  that the legal observations to which the proposed amendment had given rise were  not such as to prevent its adoption by the General Conference, and that. the  amendment would not entail fundamental alterations in the aims of the Organ-  ization or new obligations for its Member States.. . '. And so, Mr President, the  Legal Committee made no trouble about this issue, and I submit that the United  States would make no trouble about this issue either.
40.10 What the Legal Committee was concerned with, what Canada and Australia  were concerned with, what the Executive Board was concerned with, was to make a  self -contained, explicit statement in our Constitution, and where necessary in  our Financial Regulations, of the obligations of States when they have to pay  their assessed contributions, when they may withdraw and wish to rejoin. There is  no difficulty in making a claim that the practice should be set out in the  Constitution. This Constitution should riot be the subject of inquiries, of the  question 'What is the practice?'. We have the opportunity to state the practice  in the Constitution itself, and we should take this opportunity to do so now.  Canada and Australia sought to give the Conference that opportunity; the  Executive Boara applauded it and sought the Director-General's suggestions; it  received those suggestions ana passed them on to this Conference.
40.11 Mr President, I submit that this is not one of the suggestions by the  Director-General, or one of the views of the Executive Board, which should be  deferred for two more years. It should be adopted now. It won't hinder the United  States coming back before the next session of the General Conference; the United  States would just have to observe as would the United Kingdom, what they always  accepted as the practice. Thank you, Mr President.
(41) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  the Legal Committee.  I thank the delegate of Australia. I now give the floor to the Chairwoman of
(42.1) Mrs KELLY (Argentina), Chairwoman of the Legal Committee (Translation from  the Spanish) :  Thank you, Mr President. I simply wish to add to the statement by Mr Whitlam,  who presented the amendment with the utmost clarity, that document 125 EX129 Rev. is  available to delegates.
(42.2) As regards the question raised by the delegate of Senegal, I must explain  that we made a mistake when we said that a third sentence should be added to  paragraph 2 of Article XV of the Constitution. That paragraph already has three  sentences; it would thus be a matter of adding a fourth sentence. The first reads as  follows: 'This Constitution shall remain open for signature in the archives of the  Government of the United Kingdom'. Second sentence: 'Signature may take place eit er  before or after the deposit of the instrument of acceptance'. Third sentence 'No  acceptance shall be valid unless preceded or followed by signature'. The fourth  sentence would therefore be the one that we proposed to add: 'A State that has  withdrawn from the Organization shall deposit a new instrument of acceptance in order  to resume membership'.
(42.3) I believe that the question thus becomes much clearer. As Mr ühitlam has so  rightly said, this is not anything new; the aim is merely to write into the  Constitution something that has already been applied in practice. Thank you,  Mr President.
(43) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mrs Kelly. The delegate of the Netherlands has the floor.
44. Mr LEIBBRANDT, (Netherlands) :  Thank you very much, Mr President. I only want to say that the  Netherlands would like it to be noted in the records that we follow the arguments  of France and are making a reservation on the same grounds. Thank you,  Mr President.
(45) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  the delegate of Nigeria.  We take note of the statement by the delegate of the Netherlands. I call on
46. Mr INKO-TARIAH (Nigeria) :  Thank you, Mr President. The Legal Committee gave very thoughtful  consideration to this amendment. I do not agree with those who hold the view that  there is no difference between Member States who withdrew and States intending to  be members. They are not in the same category at all, whatever way we look at it,  at least from the practical point of view. They are two different categories.  Mr President, one cannot tell me that the former Director-General was not a  Director-General at any time. He was a Director-General; there is a new Director-  General; but, at the time, he was a Director-General. The point is that the  Constitution did not make provision for members that have withdrawn and which  intend to come back into this august, very distinguished international forum. We  have been talking about facilitating the universal profile of Unesco. Has this  been lip-service? We want all members to come back and this is the basis: we want  to legitimize the acimission of all those who have withdrawn simply through the  deposit of instruments of acceptance. I think, Mr President, this provision is  absolutely necessary; and it is not logical to say that members who have  withdrawn and who wish to come back are the same as intending Member States. They  are not the same, and never can be the same. With due deference, those members  that withdrew were founder members of Unesco; but, whatever the case, our  principles of universality stands and demands that we strongly support this  amendment. I plead with the General Conference, Mr President, to adopt this  amendment. It was given thoughtful consideration by the Legal Committee, and I  think that we should try to help Unesco by adopting this amendment. Thank you,  Mr President.
(47) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Nigeria. I give the floor to the delegate of Canada.
48.1 Mr WILSON (Canada):  Thank you, Mr President. My intention was to rise to a point of  privilege immediately after the distinguished delegate for Italy imputed to the  sponsors of the amendment under consideration - I'm trying to remember his exact  words, but they will be found in the verbatim record of course - a certain  casualness, a certain superficiality on the intellectual plane. He seemed to be  saying that we lacked foresight; maybe that we hadn't thought through the  implications.
48.2 Well now, it is quite possible, and I will concede this freely, that  there may be times when we fail to think through all the implications. But I  don't think we're alone in that; I think nobody is perfect; nobody here pretends  to God-like wisdom and omniscience. But, in fact, as Mr Whitlam, the  distinguished delegate for Australia, fairly ably pointed out, this was not a  light-hearted piece of caprice. We did not enter lightly into this. We are doing  here something that seemed to us very, very important for two reasons.
48.3 One is the one that has been discussed, that the amendment is simply  embodying practice that has been around for a great many years and is not likely  to change. But the other is a more fundamental political one. We have heard a  great deal about the risk of obstacles being raised to the return of the United  States of America, the United Kingdom and Singapore. It has even been suggested  that by mentioning the Constitution, something that happens anyway, we would  somehow be creating obstacles. Like Mr Whitlam, I find that one of the most  ridiculous notions I have heard here in many, many days. But, what is really  important here is that when a country has joined Unesco and accepted the  Constitution, it accepts the Constitution as it finds it on the day of its  acceptance; and, as long as it remains a member, it accepts all changes to the  Constitution. Now when it happens that a Member State withdraws for a period of  years, the Constitution may go on changing and evolving. If it wished to come  back, is it not logical and sensible, is it not to be expected that the State  concerned - for example, the United States - would want to take a very clear-cut  decision on its owri behalf as to whether it wished to accept a new and different  Constitution, if in the meantime we had changed it? Surely, far from being an  obstacle to the return of a country such as the United States, it might be a  positive inducement if we could say: 'You have the privilege of deciding, if and  when you want to come back, to choose quite deliberately to come back knowing  that you must be in the legal sense formally ratifying your acceptance of the new  constitution as you find it'. Now I cannot for the life of me see how what is  being proposed here by the Legal Committee ccjuld in any way be construed as an  obstacle to their return.
48.4 But, there is more to this, Mr President. When we took up this item, we  began to hear a series of statements of reservations. We have had them from  France, Japan, Belgium, Italy, and now the Netherlands. But not one of those  delegates has actually formally moved a motion that we do not proceed with this  matter, nor has anyone called for a vote. Now it is open to me, it is open to any  of us, to invoke the Rules of Procedure and propose that we suspend the debate;  because, in fact, a debate seems to have been reopeneä - as is the right and  privilege of plenary - on matters that are not new to us, that have been  considered ever since Sofia. We've had two years to think about these things. And  I have no doubt about what would happen if we had a vote. But, since nobody has  in fact formally insisted on a vote, Canada would prefer that we adopt this by  consensus, accepting these reservations if we must do that. But if push comes to  shove, we will have to vote for this because we cannot see that the Organization  would be enhancing its international reputation by flinching more often than it  is absolutely necessary to do from grasping the nettle firmly and taking these  kinds of decisions. This is a very elementary one. It was, I thought, one of the  least provocative, least controversial, one of the simplest pieces of advice that  has come to us from the Legal Committee and, before that, from the Executive  Board with the benefit of legal advice that the Secretariat had given us. And  those countries that are stating reservations today were all part of the  consensus in the Executive Board.
48.5 For all these reasons, Mr President, I would very much hope that the  unfortunate note of acerbity that has crept into the debate, which I deeply  regret, will not be repeated and that we can now smoothly proceed to close the  debate and get on with the adoption of this decision. Thank you.
(49) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Canada. I now call on the delegate of Spain.
(50.1) Mr PEREZ MAURA (Spain) (Translation from the Spanish):  in favour of universality. The same idea was repeated during our debate on this item.
(50.2) In the view of the Spanish delegation, despite the skilful explanations of  the delegates of Australia and Canada, the question whether the introduction of this  fourth sentence would be a step towards facilitating the return of former Member  States must be asked. In our view, this is not absolutely clear, and consequently,  Spain supports the point of view of France and considers that the Presidency might  well conclude that, as this debate has shown there ds no de facto unanimity, and that  it would probably be appropriate to postpone this decision.  Thank you, Mr President. During the general policy debates, all speakers were
(51)  all  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Spain. Up to now we have taken note individually of  the rese,rvations expressed by the various countries about this draft. But there  has been no clearly formulated motion to postpone the debate. I should like the  delegate of Spain to tell me clearly whether he has requested that the debate on this  matter be postponed.
(52) Mr PEREZ MAUñA (Spain) (Translation from the Spanish):  No, Mr President, I did not make a formal proposal.  El PRESIDENTE:  Muchas gracias. Doy la palabra entonces al señor delegado de Jamaica.
(53) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the delegate of Jamaica.
54.1 Mr WYNTER (Jamaica) :  Mr President, I should like to point out that we should not do anything  that will impede the return to Unesco of those Member States that have withdrawn.  I would therefore have been against the amendment if its effect would be to  impede the return. But I notice, as Mr Whitlam has reminded us, that in the paper  before us the representative of the Director-General, whom I take to be the Legal  Adviser, confirmed that the Organization's practice in respect of members that  have left us and that have returned corresponds precisely to what is being  proposed in the amendment. Mr President, I therefore have no problem in accepting  the amendment.
54.2 But I should like to ask, Mr President, why is the amendment being made  to Article XV, which deals with the entry into force of the Constitution. Surely  the amendment should be to the article on membership, which is Article II.  Article 11.6 deals with Member States withdrawing; and surely the amendment which  concerns Member States returning, should appear as Article 11.7. In any event,  Mr President, I should like to suggest the following: the new clause should  appear as Article 11.7 and it should begin with the words 'notwithstanding  Article XV.2' or an expression to that effect. For that is where the kernel is  Mr President: according to Article XV, acceptance has to be preceded by  signature.
54.3 The practice we have been following in the case of members returning has  been to dispense with signature and to simply have them deposit a new instrument
35  of acceptance. So what we are trying to do is to put in the Constitution what is  the actual practice. The legal authorities of my country, Mr President, would not  have bothered to move an amendment because we believe that if it is practice then  it will be followed. But, as the delegations of Australia and Canada have been  very kind in proposing a comprehensive set of amendments covering both withdrawal  and return, may I state that I am sorry that the Legal Committee has decided to  defer some proposals, and to accept others. It would have been much tidier to  take them altogether or defer them altogether. This one, Mr President, I feel  should not be deferred because we are hoping that Member States will return. I  know that, whether we adopt this or not, they will return under the present  practice of depositing a new instrument of acceptance. But since we are tidying  the texts up, Mr President, I suggest if the Chairman will be willing to accept a  humble suggestion from a humble member, that this new clause belongs more  properly in the article on membership following Article 11.6, which is concerned  with withdrawal; and that it is necessary for us to say, as a prelude, 'notwith-  standing Article XV.2'.
54.4 Having said that, Mr President, if the Chairwoman of the Legal Committee  äoes not see any sense in what I am saying and insists that the amendment's place  is in Article XV.2, adding a new sentence, I believe, in view of Article XV.2  which states that 'No acceptance shall be valid unless preceäed or followed by  signature', any new clause needs to be worded: 'Notwithstanding the provision in  paragraph 2 above, a State that has withdrawn from the Organization shall deposit  an instrument of acceptance in order to resume membership'. I hope that has been  clear, Mr President. I would prefer including the new clause in the article  concerning membership, but if we persist in having it under Article XV, then I  think we need the addition I have suggested. Thank you, Mr President.
(55) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  question.  Thank you, Mr Wynter. The Chairwoman of the Legal Committee will answer your
(56.1) Mrs KELLY (Argentina), Chairwoman of the Legal Committee (Translation from  the Spanish) :  Thank you, Mr President. The question that Mr Wynter has just raised, namely,  whether the sentence should be added to Article XV of the Constitution or after  paragraph 6 of Article II, was also discussed in the Legal Committee.
(56.2) The Legal Committee decided to include it in paragraph 2 of Article XV  because the question fits in better with clauses relating to the entry into force of  the Constitution, since it deals with the validity of the Constitution for a country  that has withdrawn from the Organization and decides to return; in other words, its  entry into force is of direct concern to a State in such a situation.
(56.3) On the other hand, we wished to make it very clear that there is no need for  a State that withdraws from the Organization after having been a member to be required  to sign the Constitution in order to return.
(56.4) For all these reasons, the Legal Committee decided to accept the amendment  suggested by the delegations of Australia and Canada and to add a fourth sentence to  paragraph 2 of Article XV. Thank you, Mr President.
(57) The PRaSIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mrs Kelly. I give the floor to the delegate of Sweden.
58.1 Mr ADAHL (Sweden) :  Thank you, Mr President. I do not at all dispute the knowledge and  expertise of the delegates of Canada and Australia on issues about entry into and  withdrawal from international organizations; we know that they have very  thoroughly studied these problems. What I would propose, though, is that we take  a more practical approach to this matter, which is only partly legal.
58.2 If, as it seems, the introduction of this amendment would render the  decision-making process in a former member country contemplating its return to  the Organization more complicated, it would not appear to be in our interest to  approve that introduction; I think therefore that Sweden would like to join those  countries which have expressed reserves on doing so, either at the end of  Article XV, paragraph 2, or as a new paragraph 7 of Article II.
58.3 In addition to that, I think if we are going to put the proposed text  elsewhere and in a new context, we might even need more time to study it; in that  case, Sweden would definitely support the idea of postponing a decision. Thank  you.
(59) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Sweden. I call on the delegate of Syria.
(60) Mr ABD0 (Syrian Arab Repubíic) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. I should first like to congratulate the Chairwoman  and members of the Legal Committee for the excellent work - extremely careful and  first rate - which they have submitted to us. We have listened to a great many  speakers and the word ‘universality’ has occurred in many of the speeches.  ‘Universality’ need not be an empty phrase. Rather we should give the question very  careful attention. Indeed, the discussion on this topic began at the twenty-third  session of the General Conference in Sofia. Thereafter, as Mr Whitlam said, and I  agree with him, the topic took up a considerable proportion of the discussion in the  Executive Board. This subject was also discussed when we considered the admission of  certain States as observers. The same arguments were put forward at that time and we  encountered the same difficulties aa we face now. It is not a matter of placing  obstacles in the way of the return of any State to the Organization but of a need for  procedural clarification. The Constitution is lacking in clarity on this point. It is  one of the duties of the General Conference of the Organization to deal with any  lacunae and ambiguities in articles of the Constitution. For this reason, we believe  that the Legal Committee was right in what it has maintained and that, as the  Chairwoman of the Committee explained, any State which has withdrawn from the  Organization should submit new instruments of accession. For it is neither logical nor  reasonable that a State which has withdrawn from the Organization should have equal  status with States which have not withdrawn. Hence a State which has withdrawn must  follow the legal procedures for returning to the Organization. Thank you,  Mr President.
(61) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish): I  I thank the delegate of Syria. I call on the delegate of Zimbabwe.
62. Mr CHIVANDA (Zimbabwe) :  Thank you, Mr President. Zimbabwe would like to congratulate the Legal  Conunittee, and to state that it fully supports the arguments so ably put forward  Gy the delegates of Australia and Canada and others in support of~this draft., As  has been mentioned here there has been a practice, with which the United States  and Britain concurred, when States that had withdrawn rejoined the Organization.  If any State wishes to be treated differently, it is going to be very difficult  for us to accept. There is a great concern for the equality of Member States in  any international organization, and we see no reason why regularizing a practice  can be construed as an obstacle by anybody who is genuinely interested in  rejoining the Organization. Mr President, let me once again congratulate those  who have workeu so hard to bring this matter to a satisfactory conclusion. Thank  you.
(63) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Zimbabwe. I call on the delegate of Italy.
64.1 Mr INDELICATO (Italy) :  Thank you very much, Mr President. Unfortunately I was not here when I  was accused of saying something about the intellectual capabilities of the  distinguished member of a distinguished delegation. I really do not understand  how that could have happened, since I do not have any doubt about the  interpretation: I know that our interpreters are very precise and correct and  faithful. But in any event, to make clear what I said, if I was riot clear enough,  let me repeat that I hoped that, after the discussions in the Legal Committee,  the sponsors themselves had realized some implications of the proposal, and that  they might, therefore, have changed their opinion. After all, what is the purpose  of discussion, if not to seek changes of opinion? If, then, I expressed the hope  that they had realized these implications, this was not intended as an offensive  remark, but rather as a compliment. In any event, if I was not clear, I  apologize: usually, when one is not understood, it is one's own fault and not the  fault of those who listen.
64.2 Now let me turn to the problem itself. Of course I do not want to repeat  what I said in the Committee - to explain the reasons why I consider this  amendment to be intellectually useless, politically dangerous, and legally  incorrect, not only because of its contents or its legal implications, but also  because of its position itself, because Article XV is a procedural article,  concerning application, and not a substantive one, where this amendment has no  place whatever.
64.3 This being said, I am obliged formally to support the proposal for  postponement of a decision on this item until the next session of the General  Conference, and to request. a vote on this point. Thank you, Mr President.
(65.1) The PRESIDENT (Translatiori from the Spanish) :  I thank the delegate of Italy. I must point out that I cannot act on his  motion for a postponement since there has not yet been a concrete proposal to that  effect.
(65.2) I again call on the delegate of Italy.
66. Er INDELICATO (Italy) :  ment. Thank you.  Mr President, I had the impression that Sweden proposed the postpone-
(67) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  request clarification from the delegate of Sweden. I call on the delegate of Sweden.  I consider that no note has been taken of such a proposal, but I would
68. Mrs ULVHAMMAR (Sweden) :  Mr President, there was no formal proposal. But my colleague from Sweden  said that if there were such a proposal, we would be ready to support it. In view  of the support now from the delegate of ,Italy, and in order to clarify the  matter, I will formally move that the matter be postponed. Thank you.
(69.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  the Secretary to ascertain that there is a quorum.
(69.2) The Secretary has informed me that there are 69 delegations present. We  cannot continue meeting as there is no quorum.  Gentlemen, a formal proposal to postpone the debate has been made. I request
(69.3) The delegate of India has asked for the floor. I repeat that we are not in  session as there is no quorum. Nevertheless, I give the floor to the delegate of  India.
70. Ms GHOSE (India) :  Mr President, I am not sure whether there was a motion for the closure  of the debate or for a postponement of the decision. My delegation has still to  take the floor on the substance of what we are discussing. Could I hâve a clari-  fication, please? Thank you.
(71.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I would explain to the delegate of India that there has been a motion to  postpone the debate on the subject under discussion, as provided for in Rule 75 of the  Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, which reads: 'During the discussion of  any question, a Member State or Associate Member present may move adjournment of the  debate on the item under discussion. Any such motion shall have precedence. In  addition to the proposer af the motion, one speaker may speak in favour of, and one  against, the motion'.
(71.2) My intention was to apply Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, I  cannot do so for lack of a. quorum, and so we cannot continue meeting. The Secretary  will again ascertain whether there is a quorum in 30 minutes' time.  (La seance est suspendue à 12h15; elle est reprise à 12h45)
(72.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  there is a quorum.
(72.2) The Secretary informs me that there are 7 9  delegates present; we therefore  have a quorum. Let us then resume our work.
(72.3) I wish to inform delegates that when we adjourned the meeting the situation  was as follows: we understood that the delegate of Italy supported a motion to  postpone the debate on this subject. In turn, the delegate of Sweden accordingly moved  that the item be carried over to the next session of the General Conference, which I  did not interpret correctly because I considered it to be a motion to postpone the  debate. We now therefore have the proposal of Sweden and the proposal of the Legal  Committee, which is in the document before you.
(72.4) During the debate, reservations were also expressed and some questions were  raised which the Chairwoman of the Legal Committee answered.
(72.5) We will now continue the debate. So far, we have on the list Nigeria, the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Ethiopia, India and Sweden. I call on the  delegate of Sweden to explain his motion.  May I ask delegates to take their seats so that we may ascertain whether
73. Mr ADAHL (Sweden) :  Thank you, Mr .President. In fact, aEter having listened to some state-  ments, we said that if it were the case that this amendment would make it more  difficult for a country to return to membership we would prefer to be clear and  not take a decision now. The usefulness of the lack of quorum was that it made it  possible for some additional information to be provided to those who had spoken;  ana we have now been informed that in fact there is no such problem for the  former Member States in question. So, as far as Sweden is concerned, we therefore  do not maintain either any proposal or any reservation. Thank you.
(74.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Sweden for his explanations. It is therefore  understood that the only proposal for consideration is the one submitted by the Legal  Committee. Let us now continue with the list of speakers.
(74.2) I call, first of all, on the delegate of Nigeria.
75. Mr INKO-TARIAH (Nigeria) :  Thank you, Mr President. May I ask Mr Wynter, whose argument I thought  was very reasonable and could attract some support as a means of clarifying the  situation and removing every iota of ambiguity, to restate his proposed amendment  to the draft resolution before us. I am not quite sure whether he meant it to  concern Article XV, paragraph 2, or Article II.
(76.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Nigeria. Unfortunately, Mr Wynter is not present to  throw light on the question. In my view, and subject to confirmation by Mr Wynter in  due course, although he did not oppose the proposals of the Legal Committee, he asked  whether it might not be preferable to insert the amendment at the end of paragraph 6  of Atticle II of the Constitution, rather than as the fourth sentence of paragraph 2  of Article XV. In Mr Wynter's opinion, if the amendment were made to paragraph 2 of  Article XV, in the form of a fourth sentence, it should begin with the word  'notwithstanding'. This is what I understood, but of course Mr Wynter will be  consulted in due course.
(77) Mrs KELLY (Argentina), Chairwoman of the Legal Committee (Translation from  the Spanish) :  Mr President, I personally agree with Mr Wynter's proposal to add the word  'notwithstanding' at the beginning of the fourth sentence of paragraph 2 of  Article XV, but I am expressing my owp opinion, not that of the Legal Committee. If  none of the members of the Legal Committee objects, I would be inclined to accept that  suggestion. Thank you.
(78.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  account in deciding on this matter once we have decided on the question of substance.
(78.2) I give the floor to the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.  Thank you, Madam Chairwoman. I think we can take what you have said into
35  aJibHOM BOIIpOCe PâBeHCTBa MeXny TOCynäpcTBaMM, - BOT ïne TnaBHbIk BOnpOC. Ji~60 MbI CeTOnHR BbICKaXeM-  aKT, nu60 MbI yCTâHOBMM KaKYiO-TO ïpânaqMiO AJIII ï0Cynãpcl.B. ECTb îOCynâpCTBa, KOTOPbIe MMeiOTnpMBMJïe-  TMM, 3T0 RBâ TOCyíWpCTBâ, MOXeT 6bITb AX 6yAeT TPM-UeTbIpe, BcTb OCTanbHbIe TOCynapCTBâ, KOTOPbIe  IIpHBMJIeTMfi He MMeIOT M CaaiOT Ha XpaHeHMe HOBbIfi BKT. fi BaM naXe 6onbwe MOTY CKa3aTb, BOT Te  TOCYJlaPCTBa, KOTOPbIe CeTOLIHII BbICTyIIaJIM IIPOTMB 3TOfi íIOiIpaBKM, OHM Xe Ha IOPMAM9eCKOM KOMMTeTe  BbICTyíIanM IIPOTMB IIPMHRTMII B IOHECKO TaKMX TOCynapCTB KâK OCTpOBa KyKa, TyBano M JJpyTHe, MOTMBM-  PYIOT TeM, ZIT0 OHM x ~ 0 6 b 1  H B006~qe-TO He IIBJIIIIOTCII TOCynâpCTBaMM A 9TO Rnñ HHX HMKaKMX o6ner9e~~ii B  KaHanoii, OHa yIIOpIIaOYMBaeT IIpUIiIJMiI PäBeHCTBa BCeX TOCyRapCTB nePen YCTIBOM. Bce TOCynapCTBa AJ'ISI  TOTO YTO6bI BCTYíIMTb, He3aBMCHMO OT TOTO, 6b1n1.i OHM PâHbIiie B IOHECKO, MnM He ~ ~ I J I H ,  061I3âHbi CHaTb Ha  XpaHeHMe HOBbIfi äKT O I'IPMHIITMM. 3TO IIpMHIJUn Cl@aBenJIMBOCTU, KOTOPbIfi MbI UOnXHbI YTBePRWTb. BOT O  SeM MAeT pe9b M fI0 KâKOMY BOiipOCy MbI JJOJïXHbI Cefi9âC íIpMHMMaTb PeIiieHMe. &'IaTOnâpIo Bac, TOCnOnMH  cx 3a n p ~ ~ q s n  paseHcTsa Memny rocynapcTBaMH, T.e. 9 ~ 0 6 ~  Bce rocynapcTaa cnaBann Ha xpaaeme HoBarfi  npovenype He MoxeT 6bITb. BOT o 4eM m e T  pew,. ~ O ~ T O M ~  nonpama, KoToparr BHeceHa ABCTpanMefi A  HpencenaTenb.
(79) Mr KANAEV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the  Russian) :  Mr President, as a member of the Legal Committee, I want to say that we  discussed both the legal and the political aspects of this proposal very attentively.  And today I have listened very carefully to the delegations which have submitted  amendments and argued that this matter should be held over until the next Conference.  I must say that the exchange here between members of the Legal Committee strengthens  even further my own conviction that the matter should be settled without further  delay. The conclusions of the Legal Committee are before you, but I should like to  respond to one or two questions concerning what has been described as a lack of  clarity in the sense of the proposed amendment. The uncertainty concerns whether or  not it will render the return of the United States more complicated. I believe that it  was the opinion of the Legal Committee that this amendment in no way complicated the  issue, and that the real facts of the matter are as follows: in the Committee, the  representatives of certain countries submitted that in the case of the United States,  the matter might be simplified, in other words that a declaration of reintegration  would be sufficient. This was the point at which the arguments began in the Legal  Coumittee. On what grounds should we extend privileges to one or to two States at the  expense of the remainder of Unesco's membership, which must ratify the Constitution?  Why should we allow two States which have jumped the fences of the Constitution simply  to declare that they are coming back into the fold again? This is a matter of  principle - a question of equality between States, a most important matter. Either we  pronounce ourselves today in favour of equality between States, i.e. we declare that  all States shall deposit a new instrument of acceptance; or we establish some sort of  hierarchy of States, with on the one side two, or three or maybe four States that are  accorded privileges, and on the other side the remainder, which have no such  privileges and must deposit a new instrument. I could go further, and point out that  those States which have today spoken agairist the amendment are the ones which - in  the Legal Committee - argued against the admission to Unesco of States such as the  Cook Islands, Tuvalu and others on the grounds that in some way or another they were  not actudly 'States' and could benefit from no easing of our procedures. This is what  it is all about. The amendment submitted by Australia and Canada sanctifies the  principle of equality between all States as far as Unesco is concerned. Every State  wishing to join, whether or not it was previously a member of Unesco, must deposit an  instrumerit of acceptance. This is a principle of justice, which it is our duty to  affirm. This is the question at stake, and this is the matter on which we must now  take a decision. Thank you, Mr President.
(80) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  floor to the delegate of Ethiopia.  I thank the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 1 give the
81. Mr TEFEKTW (Ethiopia) :  Thank you, Mr President. In our view the Legal Committee has done a very  good job, and we are sure that they have taken all the legal aspects into account  before coming up with this draft resolution. If my information is correct, there  are practices that have been followed in the past when certain Member States left  and when certain Member States reloined the Organization. Nobody talked about  those practices then. Maybe the Member States were not as important as those in  question now. I think we cannot talk about legal and political problems whenever  we have certain Member States in mind; there must be a question of principle, and  this principle must be valid for all Member States, big or small. In this  respect, any Member State leaving the Organization, whichever it is, will  naturally have to follow certain procedures, and there must be also certain  procedures for coming in. I think that should apply to all Member States. If this  organization is doing something completely different from other Specialized
1069    Agencies, probably one should examine this. What was the situation in the IL0  when - if I remember correctly - some years back the United States left the  Organization and then rejoined. Was it completely different? Are we requiring  something special now, in this particular instance? I would like to know the  answer for my own information. As far as we are concerned, the draft resolution  proposed by the Legal Committee is quite all right, and we do not see any legal  or political problems at all. Thank you very much.
(82) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Ethiopia. I call on the delegate of India.
83.1 Ms GHOSE (India):  Thank you, Mr President. I would like to apologize to you for  interrupting you earlier on a point of order - I don't normally raise points of  order - and I would like to take this opportunity of expressing my bewilderment  at the confusion which reigned before you very wisely called for a break.
83.2 I don't think that any member of the Legal Committee, nor indeed of the  General conference, wishes to place any obstacles in the way of any State which  wishes to join or rejoin this Organization. This is not a matter which is in  doubt. What this particular text in our view does - and here I speak as somebody  who participated in the Legal Committee - is exactly what is contained in para-  graph 11 of the report. it records the current practice in a text.
83.3 Mr Presiderit, the General Conference will be aware that the issue of  harmonization of practice with constitutional texts has been under examination  and discussion, and this particular amendment is one which falls very clearly  within the entire aspect of harmonization of the constitutional text with a  current practice. So the little uproar we haã came somewhat as a surprise, and I  take the point made by the delegate of the Soviet Union, who spoke before me,  that - and this had not occurred to us - what we woulá have seemed to be doing  was calling in question a principle to which all of us say that we are committed:  namely the principle of the sovereign equality of States, of not creating any  differences.
83.4 Now having said this, Mr President, I would like to make two specific  points: one is to thank the delegation of Sweden for withdrawing its motion for  postponement of this matter, since we feel that this General Conference owes its
154 members a duty to adopt something which is very simple and in line,  logically, with what we have been doing for the last two years. And the second  point is that I would like to support what the Chairwoman of the Legal Committee  has accepted, namely the amendment proposed by the delegate of Jamaica to the  text of the Legal Committee, which would make it clear that this particular  sentence, needs to be qualified with regard to the first three sentences of  paragraph 2. In other words, we support that addition of the phrase beginning  'Notwithstanding ...I. Thank you, Mr President.
(84) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Republic has the floor.
85. M. PHONEKEO (République démocratique populaire lao) :  Monsieur le Président, j'ai écouté avec beaucoup d'attention le débat  de ce matin sur le point qui nous occupe. Tout d'abord, je voudrais féliciter le  Comité juridique de son excellent travail. Pour ce qui est de l'amendement pro-  posé par le Canada et l'Australie, je ne vois aucune difficulté à l'approuver.  D'après les explications qui ont été données au cours de cette séance, il semble  que ceux qui ont exprimé des réserves à l'égard de cet amendement avaient en  tête certains pays en particulier, alors qu'il faudrait, à mon avis, se placer  sur le plan des principes. I1 s'agit de faire abstraction des pays qui se sont  retirés si l'on veut établir une procédure pour l'avenir. D'ailleurs, les expli-  cations qu'a données ce matin l'auteur du projet, l'ambassadeur Whitlam, étaient  très claires à cet égard. Tous les Etats membres doivent etre traités sur un  pied d'égalité, comme l'ont souligné les délégués de l'Union soviétique et de  l'Inde. En résumé donc, ma délégation est en faveur de l'adoption de ce projet  d'amendement. Merci, Monsieur le Président.  I thank the delegate of Iridia. The delegate of the Lao People's Democratic
(86) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  delegate of Argentina.
(87.1) Mr BOCALANDRO (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. To a certain extent, our delegation has heard  repeated here some of the arguments that had already been aired in the Legal  Committee. There are two aspects to this plenary debate. The first is the legal  aspect, which was elucidated in the Committee. Some delegations, such as the  delegation of France, have none the less spoken of the legal 'hindrance' to which this  draft amendment would give rise.
(87.2) Mr President, our delegation does not agree with the expression 'legal  hindrance', primarily because we consider that the legal elements contained in this  draft amendment are wholly logical in the present state of the art in international  law. I am sorry to have to refer once more to an aspect discussed in the Legal  Committee, but it seems to me that it should throw some light on this matter. If I  remember correctly, the delegation of France, in opposing the draft amendment, based  its argument on an article in the 1969 Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties which  drew a distinction between denunciation and withdrawal by Member States. tiowever, if  we assess this article clearly, we find that denunciation and withdrawal by a Member  State both have the same effects in international law. Consequently, as international  law now stands, there is no such difference. Any other interpretation is, in our view,  premature and doctrinaire, and not an existing rule in international public law. I am  sorry to have referred to international law, but I felt that it was necessary to do  SO.
(87.3) As for the political aspect of the question under discussion, Mr President,  we understand, in a way, the arguments put forward here by the various delegations,  but our delegation utterly rejects the idea that this draft amendment, legally in  order, could impede the entry of certain States that have withdrawn from the  Organization. We therefore support the draft amendment as presented by the Chairwoman  of the Legal Committee. Thank you, Mr President.
(88) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  delegate of the Netherlands.
89. Mr LEIBBRANDT (Netherlands) :  Thank you, Mr President. Because time is running out, I shall be very  short. I withdraw my reservation on the same grounds as those given by the  delegate of Sweden. And since I have the floor, I would like to support the  proposal by the Chairwoman of the Legal Committee regarding the word  'notwithstanding'. Thank you.
(90.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the debate on  this item. I wish to indicate that the only proposal submitted to the Conference is  the one presented by the Chairwoman of the Legal Committee, including, there being no  objection from any member of the Legal Committee, the suggestion made by the delegate  of Jamaica. The last paragraph on page 3 of document 24 CI125 should therefore read as  follows: 'Decides to amend Article XV, paragraph 2, of the Constitution by adding a  fourth sentence to read as follows: "Notwithstanding the foregoing, a State that has  withdrawn from the Organization shall deposit a new instrument of acceptance in .order  to resume membership". '
(90.3) There being no objections, the proposal is adopted. I call on the Chairwoman  of the Legal Committee to present the eleventh report.  May I take it then that the General Conference adopts this recommendation?  Onzième rannort (docum ent 24 C/126)
(91.1) Mrs KELLY (Argentina), Chairwoman of the Legal Committee (Translation from  the Spanish) :  The eleventh report of the Legal Committee, which is contained in document
24 C/ì26, refers to a proposed amendment to Article 7, paragraph 4, of the Financial  Regulations, submitted by Australia and Canada. The purpose of the proposal is to  enable the Director-General to receive contributions in cash from non-Member States  participating in certain activities of the Organization or enjoying certain facilities  or services provided by it. The Committee also considered an amendment to that  amendment submitted by the Federal Republic of Germany, which opposed the original  proposal. Some members of the Committee considered that the legal basis of  contributions paid by non-Member States was most frequently not covered by the  Financial Regulations, and that the proposal was therefore inappropriate.
(91.2) However, in the light of the budgeting techniques used, and in so far as  there was no concrete legal objection to it, the Committee decided to recommend that  the General Conference adopt the following draft resolution:  'The General Conference,  Kaving examined documents 24 CI26 and 24 CI26 Add. and taken note of the  report of the Legal Committee on this subject (document 24 C/126),  Decides to include in Article 7 of the Financial Regulations a new  paragraph 4 (renumbering the present paragraph 4 as paragraph 5) to read as  follows :  "7.4 The Director-General may receive contributions in cash from States  which, although neither Members nor Associate Members, participate  in certain programme activities or enjoy certain facilities or  services provided by the Organization; he shall report thereon to  the Executive Board". '  Thank you, Mr President.
(92) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Chairwoman of the Legal Committee. First of all, I propose that  the General Conference take note of the eleventh report of the Legal Committee. But  before that, I call on the delegate of Japan.
93. Mr NISHIZAKI (Japan) :  Thank you, Mr President. My delegation is not in a position to support  this amendment proposed by the Legal Committee. We believe that it is liable to  misunderstanding, and my äelegation shares and supports the views of some  delegations expressed in paragraphs 4 and U of the report of the Legal Committee.  I hope that the position of my- delegation in this respect will be reflected in  the proceedings of the meeting. Thank you, Mr President.
(94.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) :  I thank the delegate of Japan; his position will be placed on record.
(94.2) Does the Conference take note of the report?
(94.3) It is so decided.
(94.4) May I now consider that the General Conference adopts the recommendation  submitted by the Chairwoman of the Legal Committee?
(94.5) There being no objections, the proposal is adopted.
(94.6) Would the delegates please excuse me, but we have not taken note of the  fourth report. With your permission, we hereby take note of the fourth report.
(94.7) Ladies and gentlemen, we will now turn to the seventh report of the Legal  Committee. I give the floor to the Chairwoman of that Committee.  Septième ramort (document 24 C/127)
(95.1) Mrs KELLY (Argentina), Chairwoman of the Legal Committee (Translation from  the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. The seventh report of the Legal Committee, which is  contained in document 24 CI127, refers to the draft amendment to Article II,  paragraphs 1 and 2, of the Constitution, submitted by Australia and New Zealand. The  purpose of this draft is to enable those States that are not members of the United  Nations but are, however, members of a Specialized Agency of the United Nations system  or of the International Atomic Energy Agency to become members of Unesco without being  subject to the admission procedure laid down in Article II, paragraph 2, of the  Constitution.
(95.2) The members of the Committee as a whole recognized the good intention on  which this draft was based, since its authors placed it within the context of the  concept of universality and a desire to facilitate admission to Unesco of smaller  States. However, several members of the Committee were against its adoption by the  General Conference, owing to the very sensitive political questions that the draft  touched upon.
(95.3) On the other hand, the Committee rejected the idea of interdependence of the  Specialized Agencies with regard to their respective rules of admission, since each  should establish membership criteria appropriate to its specific purposes and  functions.
(95.4) The Legal Committee therefore decided to recommend that the General  Conference decline to adopt the proposed amendment and retain the present text of  Article II, paragraphs 1 and 2, of the Constitution. However, it suggested that the  Governments of Australia and New Zealand persuade the authorities of the Pacific  States, whose admission to Unesco they desired to facilitate through the amendment, to  set in motion as soon as possible the procedure laid down in Article II, paragraph 2,  of the Constitution, which provides that States not members of the United Nations may  be admitted to membership of the Organization, upon recommendation of the Executive  Board, by a two-thirds majority vote of the General Conference. Thank you,  Mr President.
(96) The PRESIDEPUT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mrs Kelly. I think, then, that the General Conference should take  note of the seventh report of the Legal Committee. The delegate of Australia has asked  for the floor.
97.1 Mr WHITLAM (Australia) :  Thank you, Mr President. I thought to take the floor because this issue  does raise very important aspects for the universality of Unesco. It has given us  very great satisfaction that, on at least three public occasions, the  Director-General has emphasized that this Organization cannot be universal unless  members that have withdrawn rejoin and unless other States that have never been  members join. I would ask delegates to note that at the back of each hall where  we meet in plenary or in commissions of the whole there is a row of empty seats  with plaques bearing the names of States that are no longer or are not yet  members of the Organization. And we can see them there: Brunei, Djibouti,  Kiribati, Liechenstein, Nauru, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Vanuatu,  United Kingdom, United States of America. It will be noted that seven of the  missing members are in Group IV. Of these missing members, Kiribati is a member  of the World Health Organization, the International Civil Aviation Organization  and the Universal Postal Union; Nauru is a member of ICAO, UPU and ITU; and  Tuvalu is a member of UPU. In addition, there are four members of thé: South  Pacific Forum that are not members of Unesco or are not acknowledged by Unesco as  missing members by having empty seats with plaques on them. Of these four, Cook  Islands and Niue have ratified the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone Treaty, called  the Treaty of Rarotonga after the capital of Cook Islands, to which there are  three protocols. China and the Soviet Union have signed protocols two and three.  Two of the four, Cook Islands and Marshall Islands have ratified, and  another - Federated States of Micronesia - has signed, the South Pacific Regional  Environmental Programme Treaty and its protocols. France, United Kingdom and  United States have signed this treaty and its protocols. Palau has also signed  the treaty and protocols. Thus , the five nuclear powers have acknowledged that  these political entities, parts of the largest archipelagos in the world, have  treaty-making powers with respect at least to the seas and the environment. Cook  Islands is a party to other international agreements, such as those establishing  the South Pacific Bureau for Economic Co-operation, the Farm and Fisheries  Agency, and the South Pacific Regional Trade Agreement. It signed the Law of the  Sea Convention; it ratified a Maritime Boundary Treaty with United States and a  Fisheries Agreement with the Republic of Korea; it is a full member and not just  an Associate Member of WHO and FAO.
97.2 Unesco should acknowledge that such States which are parties to treaties  registered with the United Nations and/or are members of other Specialized  Agencies cari be admitted as members of the Organization by a simple majority. In  document 24 C/127, which we are considering, one of the members of the Legal  Committee expressed the opinion that States which are not members of the United  Nations could be admitted to Unesco by the General Conference by a simple  majority rather than the two-thirds majority at present required. There seems to  be no reason in justice or logic why admission of States which are not members of  the United Nations should have to be decided by a two-thirds majority. And I  would applaud and commend to the Executive Board and to future Conferences an  amendment along those lines.
97.3 Unesco should advise these States - both those that have plaques and  empty chairs in our halls and the others which I have specified as having  treaty-making powers - that they can be admitted as members of the Organization
1075    before they embark on the expense and effort of applying for membership. Their  membership would be a significant step towards achieving universal participation  in Unesco programmes in the Pacific.
97.4 Then there is the question of associate membership for States or  political entities for whose international relations other States have responsi-  bility. France, which has never applied for any of its overseas positions to be  Associate Members, might be encouraged to make application on behalf of New  Caledonia and French Polynesia. The United States is not at present a Member  State of Unesco, but it would seem to be the authority, within the meaning of our  Constitution, which has responsibility for the international relations of some of  the successor components of the former United States Trust Territory of the  Pacific. It could be approached to apply for them, and for its unincorporated  territories of Guam and American Samoa, to be admitted as Associate Members.
97.5 Mr President, the disparity between my own country and the missing  States which are labelled in our hall today is revealed in Unesco's 1987  Statistical Yearbook. In one of the missing States, which is a member of the  United Nations but not of Unesco, 47.1 per cent of the population aged 15 years  and over is shown to be illiterate, as against an average of 36.8 per cent in the  countries of Group IV as a whole (that emerges from page 1-22 of the Statistical  Yearbook). The number of potential scientists and engineers iri this State, which  has a population of 150,000, is shown as only 71 (that appears on page 5-22). In  the national and eight public libraries serving another missing State with a  population of 280,000, there are only 90,000 volumes (that appears on page 7-22).  The number of radio receivers in use in this State is shown as 93 per 1,000, one  fourteenth of the ratio in Australia (that appears on page 10-18).
97.6 I have cited, Mr President, instances among the missing States, which we  acknowledge to be missing States, of their comparative disadvantage in respect of  education, science, culture and communication. Australia anã New Zealand which  have proposed this amenäment are well aware of Unesco's proclivity to ãrfer  rather than to decide. After all, our application to the 1983 General Conference  to transfer to Group IV was deferred to the 1985 Conference. The 1985 Conference  approved the application but deferred its operation to the 1987 Conference. So it  is at this Conference that Australia and New Zealand have espoused the interests  of some of their neighbours and hiive asked the plenary, the General Conference,  to make it more possible, easier for them to become, part of this Organization.
97.7 Australia and New Zealand are the only developed States in the world  which are entirely surrounded by less developed States. But what do we get for  our pains in bringing this matter to the General Conference and to the Legal  Committee? In paragraph 9 of this report, the Legal Committee decided to  recomrriend to the General Conference that it decline to adopt the' proposed  amendment, that it should retain the present text including the two-thirds  majority provision, and that it should suggest to the Governments of Australia  and New Zealand that they persuade the authorities of the Pacific States whose  admission to Unesco they desire to facilitate through the amendment to set in  motion as soon as possible the procedure laid down in the Constitution as it  stands, including the two-thirds majority.
97.8 Mr President, I ask delegat.es to consider what reception would have been  given to a suggestion in earlier years that the United States and Canada should  persuade the authorities of the Caribbean States to join Unesco. it would have  been regarded as an outrageous proposition; it would have been laughed out of the  conference. And here it is suggested by the Legal Committee that Australia and  New Zealand - and one worthy member of the Legal Committee referred to us as the  big brothers - should sponsor our little neighbours. The fact is, and what  Australia and New Zealand assert is, that every State, old and new, large and  small, rich and poor, sbuld be entitled to an equal access to, an easy  membership of, Unesco as all other States.
97.9 This report is a disappointment. I am not saying that I haven't had  other disappointments in connection with the reports from the Legal Committee: my  only other statement in support of one of the Committee ' s reports produced the  delay in our proceedings. But in this case I feel I must draw attention to this  astonishing insensitivity that the majority of the Legal Committee have towards  those States which are the most distant in the whole world from Paris. I've gone  on at this length because I realize that, as a new member of Group IV, I have to  conduct a prolonged educational campaign in Unesco. But the campaign is worth it,  because this Organization will not be universal until all the political entities  in the world are able to become members of it. We all have a responsibility in  that respect; and that is not least the case of the five members from Group I,  who seem to be able to dominate the Legal Committee. It is also of course the  responsibility of the mere two members of the Legal Committee who come from
35  Group IV. So I thank the Legal Committee for such consideration as it has given  to this question. However, not only the Legal Committee but the Executive Board  and the next Conference will have to do better if these remote, scattered  populations are to have the benefit of participating in Unesco programmes in  their own right, not just as small neighbours of big brothers but as part of the  world community of nations. Thank you, Mr President.
(98) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Zealand.  I thank the delegate of Australia. I give the floor to the delegate of New
99.1 Mr BARRETT (New Zealand):  Thank you, Mr President. I have listened with great respect to my  colleague from Australia, and I entirely support the views that he has put  forward. I must say for my delegation's part that we are very disappointed at the  outcome of the Legal Committee's deliberations on this question. It is a  disappointment made more poignant by the fact that this august body, composed of  Member States ot other international organizations, has taken a completely  different approach as to the membership of the small countries of the Pacific.
99.2 I don't know if this is a reflection of inconsistencies among Member  States' delegations - I don't think so: or perhaps of differences in the  interpretations coming from the legal advisers in the different organizations.  However, I don't wish to dwell on that point at any great length.
99.3 I note, and I am happy to see, that at least the Legal Committee  understood the spirit behind the proposal that we were putting forward. I have  heard in a previous debate here, no niore than an hour ago, a great deal about the  universality of Unesco and the equality of States. It is rather strange, I feel,  that having said that with one breath, we then change our mind on another issue,  on this particular issue. The Constitution at present says that a two-thirds  majority is required from the General Conference; it also says that the Executive  Bodrd has to approve an application for membership from States not members of the  United Nations. That is quite a daunting prospect for a small country that is not  well endowed with legal expertise, or indeed with a great äeal of human  resources. It looks at an organization like Unesco, and it says, 'yes, we want to  join this body, it holds the promise for our future generations in the fields of  education, science, culture and communication, but how do we get in?' Well, if it  took the decision next.week, it wouldn't get in - not before two years.
99.4 So I don't really understand what the Legal Committee could have been  gettinç at, apart from wishing to stick too rigidly to the letter of the law,  apart from wanting to perhaps exclude those whG have a right of membership and  access to this Organization. So I say we are disappointed, very disappointed.
99.5 I am awüre that you, Kr President, are considering a document or state-  ment to submit to this plenary regarüing the question of membership - not on this  particular aspect but regarding an appeal to those who have left the Organization  to return. It would be my hope that that same statement or document, will include  also references (since I don't see any other way of doing it) to an approach by  the Director-General to those countries that are not members of the Organization,  that have never been members of the Organization, with a view to encouraging them  to join.
99.6 I must say that like my colleague, Ambassador Whitlam, I am astounded at  the inference that Australia and New Zealand should go and encourage these  countries to join Unesco. I don't quite know how to describe it, but I find it  astounding for the same reasons as those which he put forward.
99.7 So, Mr President, I would like to hear from the Chairwoman of the Legal  Committee her reaction to the views that both my colleague from Australia and  myself have put forward. You see, the Committee has simply said that that is the  end of the matter and there is no way forward. But is there not, in fact,  perhaps, a way of deferring or passing this on to the next General Conference?  That is all I want to say, thank you, Mr President.
(100.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr Barrett. I just wish to point out in that regard that the  proposal was to take note of the report and naturally there is no specific resolution  to be voted on.
(100.2) I now call on the delegate of Nigeria.
101.1 Mr INKO-TARIAH (Nigeria) :  Mr President, I also wish to express appreciation of the extraordinary  time taken by Mr Whitlam, the delegate of Australia, and Mr Barrett, the delegate  of New Zealand, in ail the postulations they have advanced, which, Mr President,  with due deference, I did not think were absolutely necessary. They ascribed to  us the benefit of having understood the spirit in which this amendment was put  forward; they ascribed to the Legal Committee this benefit and appreciation and  we accept it. And that has been the spirit in which the entire debate was held in  the Legal Committee.
101.2 Mr President, the issues are very simple. The insinuations that have  been made here sound to me rather preposterous and absolutely uncalled for. What  we said in the Legal Committee, Mr President, was that these States, which are  not members of the United Nations, had not made any attempt - I repeat, had not  made any attempt - to come into Unesco on their own. We are not expecting States  to be satellites of other States. They should come along. If Australia and New  Zealand had the interests of these States in mind in bringing forward this  motion, they can equally well reflect the same interest in asking these nations  to apply to Unesco. They have prepared the ground, they have done the spadework  for them here, and now these States should apply to Unesco. Article SI,  paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, contain all the means they require for doing so. Let them  have recourse to those resources!
101.3 My second point, Mr President, is that the amendment presented left much  to be desired. Unesco derives from the United Nations. Unesco does not derive  from any Specialized Agency of the United Nations. Therefore, to say that we have  to admit as a member of Unesco a State which is a member of a Specialized Agency  is illogical and does not make sense to me. Each of these Specialized Agencies  has its own Constitution.
101.4 We appreciate the spirit in which the proposed amendment was put  forward. We sympathize with the whole situation. But - I repeat - no effort has  been made to join the Organization by the States concerned, and I think,  Mr President, this is the point we have made. And if there is any problem that  has been seen by New Zealand and Australia as impeding or placing a hurdle in the  path of these States, then they could bring the matter to the attention of the  General Conference at its twenty-fifth session.
101.5 Mr President, there is no need to take all this time on explanations. We  have indeed been talking about the universality of Unesco and we stand by that.  Nobody - I repeat, no Member State here - would refuse the entry of these States,  if they apply. The provisions €or their doing so exist. If any of these  provisions are not clear enough or contain obstacles, motions for their amendment  could be tabled, and would be considered most favourably. Mr President, we all  have sympathy for these States. We want them all to come in, but they should come  in in the right way. And they should not come in as satellites. They should conìe  in of their own volition. Thank you, Mr President.
(102) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Nigeria. I call on the delegate of Argentina.
(103.1) Mr BOCALANDRO (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. The Argentine delegation took part in the discussion  on this matter in the Legal Committee, and as it opposed the draft amendment in the  Legal Committee, it considers it necessary to give some explanations in this plenary.
(103.2) Our country fully agrees with the principle of universality underlying the  draft amendment submitted by Australia and New Zealand, the purpose of which is to  facilitate the participation of the greatest possible number of States in the  activities of our Organization, so that the benefits of its activities may reach all  the peoples of the world.
(103.3) As the distinguished representative of Australia, Mr Whitlam, said in the  Legal Committee, the immediate objective of the draft is to facilitate the admission  to Unesco as Member States, of the Cook Islands, Nauru, Kiribati and Tuvalu, as  indicated in paragraph 3 of document 24 C/127, seventh report of the Legal Committee.
(103.4) The Argentine Republic unreservedly endorses the motives of Australia and New  Zealand, and wishes to state that it would have great satisfaction in welcoming the  Cook Islands, Nauru, Kiribati and Tuvalu as Member States of our Organization in that,  as Mr Whitlam explained, these islánds are independent States. However while sharing  that attitude, my delegation cannot endorse the draft amen¿ment submitted.
(103.5) In our opinion, there are several reasons for not doing so. Firstly,  Mr President, if approved, this draft will add a new category of members to those  already existing under the constitutional system of Unesco. For, according to the text
35  of the Constitution as it now stands, States that are members of the United Nations  are entitled to membership of the Organization, thus constituting the first category  of Member States. The second category is made up of States that are not members of the  United Nations and their admission to Unesco is subject, for reasons that we consider  entirely logical, to prior recommendation by the Executive Board and approval by the  General Conference. Lastly, territories or groups of territories that do not  themselves conduct their international relations are entitled to nembership of Unesco  at the request of the State that conducts those relations and after approval by the  General Conference. Associate Members therefore constitute the third and last category  of members of Unesco.
(103.6) This system has so far functioned harmoniously and has fully served its  purpose of facilitating admission to our Organization without causing difficulties or  controversial situations, and without being called discriminatory.
(103.7) The draft amendment now submitted by Australia and New Zealand, Mr President,  has one main objective: to add to the first category those States which, while not  members of the United Nations, are members of a Specialized Agency of the United  Nations or of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Although I have referred to  States, it will shortly become apparent that the amendment potentially extends to  other types of political entity. If this draft is considered in detail, it will be  seen that in fact it has the effect of creating a new category of members comprising a  group of States which, being unwilling or unable to belong to the United Nations, will  none the less acquire the privilege whereby the General Conference and the Executive  Board will have no say in the matter of their adicission to Unesco.
(103.8) If the draft were approved, Unesco would therefore have four categories of  members, i.e. firstly, Member States of the United Nations that are unconditionally  entitled to belong to the Organization; secondly, States that are not members of the  United Nations, whose admission would be subject to consideration and approval by the  relevant bodies of Unesco; thirdly, Associate Member States; and, lastly, those States  that elthough they are not members of the United Nations, will enjoy the privilege of  their admission being exempt from consideration by the relevant bodies of Unesco.
(103.9) Mr President, my delegation opposes the creation of this privileged category  of members of Unesco, which is not in any way justified. Possible participation in a  Specialized Agency provides no justification whatsoever for maki.ng such a profound  chaiige to the system of admission to our Organization - a system which, moreover, has  never before been called into question, corisidered inadequate or denounced as  discriminatory.
(103.10) Another element which we have found in the amendment, aI:d which makes us  oppose this draft, Mr President, is the unacceptable simplification of placing the  admission systems of all the Specialized Agencies of the United Nations on the same  footing. It is well known that the activities, political context, objectives and  consequences of the action of the Specialized Agencies within the international  community vary considerably from one agency to another. Precisely because of this  fundamental difference and the eminently administrative content of their activity,  agencies like the Universal Postal Union or the World Health Organization may have  considered it useful to include among their members the Nether]-ands Antilles or Aruba  (both territories are currently Associate Members of Unesco), overseas territories  whose international relations are conducted by the United Kingdom of Great Britain and  Northern Ireland, and New Caledonia or French Polynesia. Furthermore, mention must be  made of the legal paradox in which those territories that would be simultaneously in  the category of Associate Members and in that of Member States admitted  unconditionally would find themselves if the amendment were adopted.
(103.11) As stated earlier, by creating privileged members, this draft amendment might  extend such membership to other political entities as distinct from States. In the  light of the foregoing, we believe that this consequence, which was perhaps not sought  by the sponsors of the draft amendment, stands clearly revealed. If the amendment is  adopted, the political. entities mentioned, which cannot be admitted to the United  Nations because, under Article 3 of the Charter, membership is open to States only,  will nevertheless enjoy a more favourable situation in Unesco than even some sovereign  States that have chosen not to become members of the United Nations. Moreover,  although the draft amendment refers only to States and seems to exclude other  political entities, it is not for the specialized Agencies or for the International  Atomic Energy Agency to decide whether or not a political entity is a State.
(103.12) Explaining its objections in the Legal Committee, the Argentine delegation  stated that it was expressly opposed to this draft. The potential effects mentioned  have direct implications in the dispute that our country has with the United Kingdom  of Great Britain and Northern Ireland over the Malvinas (Falkland Islands), South  Georgia and South Sandwich Islands. This issue has been raised in the United Nations  General Assembly, which has recognized the existence of this dispute and has  recommended a peaceful solution. Our delegation considers it highly inappropriate to
1081    reproduce within Unesco political controversies that, as stated previously, are  outside the purview of this Organization and fall specifically within that of the  highest international forum. By opposing this draft amendment,, the Argentine  delegation wishes to avoid a repetition of this controversy in our Organization.
(103.13) Mr President, our delegation regrets having had to take the floor in order to  repeat some of the observations that it made in the Legal Committee when this draft  was considered, and is grateful for the valuable speaking time that the plenary has  granted us. We repeat once more that it is not our intention to hinder the admission  of the Pacific States mentioned by the distinguished representative of Australia,  since nothing could be more gratifying to the Argentine Republic than the admission of  those States as Member States of our Organization.
(103.14) What we oppose is the draft that has been submitted, whose lack of precision  and dangerous implications we have tried to point out to this plenary. We also  consider that the current text of Unesco's Constitution is sufficiently clear and that  ita application should raise no obstacles whatsoever to' membership by all the States  of the international community; we- therefore consider any amendment to it to be  inappropriate. Thank you, Mr President.
(104) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of Argentina. There are two speakers on the list; the  meeting will be adjourned after they have spoken. I now give the floor for a point of  order to the delegate of the Soviet Union.
105.  n o ~ p e 6 y e ~  ue MHOFO BpeMeHU, n0TOMy YTO 3TO He TaKOfi npOCTOfi BOnPOC, KaK er0 iibITaJ'IUCb 3UeCb  npenCTaBHTb. KpOMe TOïO, MbI o6cynen~ TOJibKO n0nOBBHy ROKJiaAa. HaM npenCTOHT O6CYnMTb eue iíOJ'IOBB-  HY ROKJ'IaJ&ì. OSeBMnHO, 9TO C 3TOl 3aAasefi MbI Cefisac, B 06eneHHbIfi iìePePbIB, He CnpaBHMCII. nO3TOMY II  IIpennOXeHkie, KBK MbI 6yneM RaJibIiie PaCCMaTpMBaTb nOKJianb1. M H e  KaXeTCX, RJIR 06cyX~leHHII 3TBX  AOKJianOB HaM nOTpe6yeTCX He ORHO MOXBT 6bITb 3aCenaHHe, MOXBT 6bITb naXe B Cy66OTy, MOXeT 6bITb 3T0
3 W C b  6b1no. Cefisac, B 3TOT 06eneHHbIfi IíePePbIB, 3AeCb, X He 3HaI0, TYT B W U M O  li IlOJiOBMHbI KBOPYMa HeT.  r-H KAHAEB (COI03 COBeTCKMX COqkiaJUicTkiseCKtiX PeCny6nkiK):  rocnonua ilpencena-renb. Celsac apewi 2 saca. Bonpoc, KoTopbIl Mbx HasanH 06CyWaTb,  npennomm 6b1 cefisac sacena~se npepaan H npockin 6b1 Bac, rocnonus iipencena-renb, COO6ulMTb Bame  Enaronapm Bac, rocnonm iípencenaTenb.
(105) Mr KANAEV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation, from the  Russian) :  Mr President, J.t is now 2 o'clock. The question which we have embarked on  will require a lot more time, because it is not a simple one, despite the claims to  the contrary that have been made here. Furthermore, we are only half-way through the  report; half of it is still before us. Obviously, we shall not be able to cope with  all this during the space of the lunch break. I would therefore propose that we  adjourn the meeting at once, and ask you, Mr President, to suggest how we may deal  further with the reports. It seems to me that their consideration will require not  just one meeting, but perhaps even Saturday as well, if not even longer. Now it is  lunch-time, and it looks to me as though we do not even have half a quorum. Thank you,  Mr President.
(106.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the delegate of the Soviet Union for raising his point of order,  which gives me the opportunity to say that we shall obviously not end our  consideration of the reports of the Legal Compittee today. The debate will be resumed  in the plenary meeting on Thursday at 3 p.m. As we also have several items to discuss,  and since we have decided to shorten the General Conference so as to end on Friday, I  request delegates to co-operate by speaking as briefly and as much to the point as  possible. With regard to the item that we have been considering, I repeat that the  only proposal before us is that note be taken of the report submitted by the  Chairwoman of the Legal Committee.
(106.2) The two speakers on the list are Greece and the USSR. If their statements are  brief, we might conclude with this item. But if they think'that they will need more  time, I'propose that we resume work on Thursday at 3 p.m., when they will be the first  to speak. I repeat my question to the delegates of Greece and the Soviet Union.
107. M. COUTSOCHERAS (Grèce) :  Monsieur le President, je voudrais seulement former le voeu que notre  Conference se prononce pour l'amendement de mon ami et collègue le délegue de  l'Australie, que j'ai en grande:estime, et je terminerai en évoquant deux vers  de Pindare : "Nous sommes tous enfants de la même mère, notre mère la Terre." Je  vous remercie.
(108) The PRESIEENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of the Soviet Union.
109.  KOMMTeTe K TeM, KOTOPbIe aKTMBHO iIOnnepXMBânM n0npaBKy ABcTpanM M  HOBO^ 3eJIâHnMM. B HâIIIefi  AMCKYCCMM CeïOAHR npOXBMnaCb, KaK MHe KXUeTCR, OnHâ MneR O TOM, YTO Mbl TOBOPMM 06 yHMBepCânbH0CTM  IOHECKO OTKPbITbIM rOJIOCOM, rPOMKMM TOJIOCOM, U OnHOBpeMeHHO IlpMHMMaeM BCe'npâKTMYeCKMe MepbI,  ZIT0661 nOMeUlaTb 3TOfi yHMBepCaJIbHOCTM. YeM npOBMHM3IMCb TOCynapCTBa Taxoro OKeäHâ, KOTOPbIe He XOTRT  BCTynaTb B OOH nO Pa3HbIM IIpMYMHaM, a XOTRT BCTYIIMTb B K)HECKO? nOYeMy MbI RM C03nâeM IIpeIiRT-  CTBMR, 3THM rOCyJIapCTBaM? ABCTpâJIMfiCKäR IIOnpaBKa, R B naHHOM CnyYâe nOKâ OTBneKaiOCb OT YCTaBa,  npâB0, KâK nm6ax M3 CTpâH, IIpeJJCTâBneHHbIX Ha reHepâJIb#Ofi KOH@epeHqUU, He 6onbirre, HO U He MeHbIIIe.  IIPMHMMaIOT 3TM ïOCyJIapCTBâ, a MbI B IOHECKO C03naeM IIpenRTCTBMX, YTO6bI MX He nPUHMMâTb? 3Tû  HenOHRTHO. nO3TOMY R CHOBa BbICKa3bIBaKXb B IlOnXepmKy iIpeflJIOXeHMX ABcTpanMM U  HOBO^ 3enâHXMM.  r-H KAHAEB (COI03 COBeTCKMX CoqkiankïcTwsecKux Pecny6n~~):  rocnonm llpencena-renb, II TaKme 6yny o y e m  KpaTKMM. II npusanneman B IOpMnMqecKoM  HanpaaneHa Ha TO, 9 ~ 0 6 b 1  0 6 n e r s ~ ~ b  BcTynneHwe ~ T R X  rocynapcm B IOHECKO. OHM m e w r  Ha TO TaKoe me  HoseMy Mbi M M  TO ~ a ~ p y n ~ ~ e ~ ,  R no CMX nop 3~0ro He n o m M a m .  IloseMy npyrue cneqManbsbie yspexneam  Ejnaronapm Bac.
(109) Mr UNAEV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the  Russian) :  Mr President, I shall also be very brief. In the Legal Committee, I was one  of those who actively supported the amendment by Australia and New Zealand. Our  discussion today seems to me to suggest that while on the one hand we openly and  vociferously proclaim Unesco's universality, on the other we do all that we can to  obstruct this universality. What are they to be accused of, those Pacific States which  for various reasons do not wish to join the United Nations but which seek admission to  Unesco? Why do we put obstacles in the way of these States? The Australian amendment,  and I am setting aside for the moment its constitutional aspects, is designed to  facilitate the entry of these States into Unesco. In this respect, they have the same  rights as any country presented to the General Conference, neither more nor less. I  still fâil to understand why we are standing in their way. Why do other Specialized  Agencies admit these States, while we in Unesco set up barriers to keep them out? This  is incomprehensible, and I consequently want once again to express support for the  proposal by Australia and New Zealand. Thank you.
(1 10.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) :  I thank the delegate of the Soviet Union. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come  to the end of the list of speakers. As I said earlier, the Legal Committee proposes  that we note its report and all the statements made. Does the Conference accept the  proposal?
(110.2) There being no objections, the proposal is adopted.  COMPOSITION DU GROUPE DE REDACTION ET DE NEGOCIATION  COMPOSITION OF THE DRAFTING AND NEGOTIATION GROUP  COMPOSICION DEL GRUPO DE REDACCION Y DE NEGOCIACION  COCïAB ïPYiIlTb1 iI0 PERAKTMPOBAHMK) kl COTJIACOBAHHK)  &JiïJl~ G+Ji &.$ &$&  & * 4 %KI /J\ $1 Hl&I&
(111.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Before adjourning the meeting, I wish to inform you that, at its meeting on
26 October, the General Committee decided to authorize the Nominations Committee to  submit a proposal to the General Conference for the replacement, within the Drafting  and Negotiation Group, of the representative of Sudan who had resigned, by another  member of the same electoral group. The member proposed is the United Arab Emirates. I  submit this proposal from the Nominations Comanittee to the Conference.
(111.2) There being no objections, the proposal is adopted.
(111.3) The meeting is adjourned.  La séance est levée 2 14 h.05  The meeting rose at 2.05 p.m.  Se levanta la sesión a las 14.05