Trente-troisième séance plénière
16 novembre 1987, à 10 h 15  Président : M. PUTZEYS ALVAREZ (Guatemala)  Thirty-third plenary meeting
977    INSTALLATION DE M. FEDERICO MAYOR DANS LES FONCTIONS DE DIRECTEUR GENEkAL  INSTALLATION OF MR FEDERICO MAYOR AS DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF UNESCO  TOPS DE POSESION POR EL SR. FEDERICO MAYOR DEL CARGG DE DIRECTOR GENERAL  BCTYHJIEHLIE B QOJIXHOCTb TEHEPAJIbHOTO AEIPEKTOPA IOHECKO T-HA <PEHEPLIKO MAflOPA  +%J IA 'J+J%~&*sLi) +' -  @4&9A- -%%%* 4 &tllhe\=r-@wBEiX$
(1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  will be devoted to the investiture of the Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor.  I declare the meeting open. Ladies and gentlemen, this plenary session
(1.2) Today Unesco is ushering in the new period of administration which the  Member States have democratically decided to entrust to Mr Federico Mayor. Support  for his proposed nomination, recommended by the Executive Board, confers on his  appointment an indisputable legitimacy which is based on sound foundations in all  the regions, without exception, to which Member States belong. The responsibility  taken up by the new Director-General is universal, as are the confidence and hope  inspired by the decision taken.
(1.3) Unesco's Constitution lays down the separate duties and responsibilities of  its governing and executive bodies. The purposes of its action are set forth in the  preamble and in the list of functions assigned to the Organization. Ideals,  principles and forms of action are linked together in an undertaking whose  successful completion should help to solve the major problems afflicting mankind.
(1.4) We support peace through conviction; we aspire to solidarity in an effort  to eradicate the evils and deprivations afflicting millions of human beings; we  uphold the dignity of men and women, peoples and nations, beliefs and cultures; we  advocate intellectual co-operation at the highest level in order to chart our  course, and we encourage joint international action that will build a better future.
(1.5) The administration we are inaugurating today has had its broad lines of  action mapped out by decisions taken, and about to be taken by the General  Conference for the near future, which will be compiled in documents summarizing the  medium- and long-term plans and programmes.
(1.6) The resources, meagre as they are, are to be seen in the light of  constraints imposed by time and circumstances. Unesco is no exception to the  contradiction from which cultural and educational institutions generally suffer:  that of being the object of unlimited generosity when their tasks and  responsibilities are praised, but subsequently receiving strictly limited financial  support.
(1.7) However, Unesco's wealth, as has been rightly stressed, also depends  primarily on its intellectual strength, its moral raison d'être, and its quality.  And as long as the disastrous paradox continues of allocating disproportionately  greater resources to warfare than to the great project to build peace, the more  herculean will become the task of the Organization, which is to produce positive  changes in the minds of men and in their will to act.
(1.8) The concept of Unesco expounded by the Director-General, as a house of  'dialogue, imagination and creativity', is most fitting and most welcome. If to  this we add the n e w  style marking the administration of the six-year term which  begins today, we shall have ample grounds for believing that the work of  co-operation will be carried out in no hostile atmosphere.
(1.9) Unesco has an unshakeable democratic base that is rooted in the legal  equality of Member States. As so satisfactorily declared by the new  Director-General, the principle remains inviolable that each country's vote carries  the same weight; no country is entitled to a veto, no country can be disqualified  from expressing its will. The right which proceeds from this democratic system  cannot be renounced.
(1.10) In another connection, we can take courage from the fact that in keeping  with the desire for reform currently in progress in Unesco, the new Director-General  has announced his determination to bring the Organization up to date, modernize it  and simplify procedures and management. These plans reflect the desires expressed  by Member States.
(1.11) Ladies and gentlemen, the current session of the General Conference, due to  conclude this week, began its work under inauspicious circumstances. Harmonious  co-operation, a positive attitude and a spirit of concord and reconciliation have  made it possible to give the Conference a basis for optimism and an encouraging tone  to its proceedings which may well make of it an historic event.
(1.12) Let us confidently hope that this achievement will eloquently express a new  spirit which will lead to an increase in the number of Unesco Member States through  the accession of new countries and the return of others at present separated from  the Organization.
(1.13) To face the future, Unesco is armed with well-designed structures: the  General Conference of its Member States, the Executive Board and the Secretariat,  which constitute the convergence of thought and institutional action.
(1.14) I have deep faith in the far-mindedness and rectitude with which  Mr Federico Mayor as Director-General will carry out a task which will call for ali  his energy; and I am certain that by putting forward his nomination, the Executive  Board acted with commendable judgement. As regards my own function, I shall spare  no effort to bring about greater co-operation, the fruits of which will be the  attainment of the ideals and the constructive achievements to which all mankind  aspires.
(1.15) Inspired by these principles, on behalf of the Member States that make up  the General Conference, I welcome you, Mr Federico Mayor, most warmly and cordially  to the Organization. I invite you to take up the honourable duties of  Director-General of Unesco, and earnestly wish you success in discharging your lofty  and dignified functions.
(1.16) I now call on the Director-General of Unesco, Mr Federico Mayor.
(2.1) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, 'For them the springs shall flow freely and corn shall be  pientiful all the year long'. Those lines by my illustrious predecessor, Jaime Torres  Bodet, epitomize our common commitment to the generations to come. It is our commit-  ment that determines the future. We are committed to illuminating the paths of  tomorrow's world by promoting education, science and culture. These enduring and  unalterable goals and principles must also guide our present decisions just as, under  the wise leadership of its President, they have guided those of the General Confer-  ence, faithfully reflecting maturity, serenity and the spirit of understanding and  agreement. The session which will complete its work in a few days' time, and the  Executive Board which preceded it, provide an example of international co-operation,  common purpose, and respect for the democratic principles which govern the proceedings  of this eminent institution of the United Nations system.
(2.2) Thank you very much, Mr President, for the kind words you have addressed to  me, emphasizing and commending that unity, that common vision and that unavoidable  striving after the construction of peace in the minds of men. That unity, that clear  common purpose, both implicitly and explicitly, require the prompt return of the  countries that have withdrawn and the inclusion among us of those that have not yet  become members. For if we are united - and only if we are united - we shall be  able to prepare the ground to ensure that the coming millennium can really begin with  'springs flowing freely and plentiful corn'.
(2.3) Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,  distinguished ministers and delegates of Member States, ladies and gentlemen, dear  friends: I should like to express my gratitude for the support you have given me and  the confidence placed in me for the efficient implementation of the decisions that  have been adopted. This support is especially necessary when the challenge is on such  a scale. Following a genuinely democratic procedure which illustrates the statute of  our Organization, I stand before you today not as the Director-General of one group or  another but as the Director-General of all, without exception; the Director-General of  all the Member States, without distinction, all on a footing of complete equality and  with equal regard for all their cultural diversities; everyone's Director-General,  with the independence derived from the absolute figures of the vote. Added to your  support is that of outstanding intellectuals throughout the world who have encouraged  me to take on this task, as well as the support of the Secretariat and all its members  at Headquarters and in the Field, men and women occupying all positions and grades,  with many of whom I have already had the satisfaction of working some years ago. The  foregoing augurs well for our ability to pursue our course with determinatidn and  enthusiasm, for if we continue steadfastly to serve the Organization and stand up to  the reverses that may befall us and might lead to premature disenchantment, we shall  be able to tackle all obstacles and resolutely endeavour to make 2n effective response  to the probl-ems and threats that are, in our sphere of competence, a feature of these  closing years of the century.
(2.4) At this moment of great expectations, I should like to stress the fact that  an intergovernmental organization like ours is purely and simply an organization of  States, deriving all its power and effectiveness from those States, and using it for  their benefit. Of course, behind the term 'State', which refers to a country's  political and administrative structure, are the people and civic society which are its  real historical embodiment. My appeal, my call for a joint effort today concerns them  most particularly.
(2.5) Mr President, I think it may .be appropriate, in referring to the closer co-  operation between those of us who are called on to share in the same task within the  Organization, to reassert at the same time the effective independence of the various  bodies - the General Conference, the Executive Board and the Secretariat - which work  together within it, and the full and independent nature of their cornpetences,  functions and responsibilities. Only on that basis can the Organization increase its  efficency without a loss of comprehension or harmony.
(2.6) In this differing but combined effort, we can all refer to one sure guide,  the Constitution of Uuesco, the true Magna Carta of our Organization, whose principles  are today as valid - or more so - as when they were established. These principles  which the passage of time has confirmed and strengthened are thus for us inviolable  and will be, for me, the compass which will determine and guide our action at all  times.
(2.7) Forty years after the founding of Unesco, however, it seems appropriate to  introduce changes that, as in the rest of the United Nations system, will bring its  functioning into step with the new reality. These are changes that would amount to  something more than reorganization. They are changes that would actually make it  possible to safeguard the aims of the Constitution and their operative principles.
(2.8) It was at the end of a European conflagration that became worldwide that the  architects of peace, by pooling what then constituted 'the sinews of war' - coal and  steel - saw with all the foresight of historic moments that world peace could be safe-  guarded only by creative efforts commensurate with the dangers that threatened it.  Creative efforts! Let us make no mistake: coal and steel, nuclear energy, micro-  electronics and biotechnologies have had, have, and will have varying importance. But  what is needed today to come to terms with all the changes that have occurred and to  prepare for the changes that we must bring about is the mobilization of intellectual  resources and a rapid rise in the general intellectual level.
(2.9) The founding objectives were not beyond the means of mankind nor were they  erroneously formulated. It is true that the goals still look very distant. Further-  more, it sometimes seems that they move away more quickly than we can pursue them. We  are now struggling amidst growing and insidious complexity that weakens the effectivc-  ness of action, when it does not dissipate it altogether. Complexity however, can be  neither avoided nor concealed. Complexity, fragility 2nd acceleration seem to me to be  the three overriding characteristics of our time. These characteristics, far from  serving as a pretext for inaction or as an excuse for being left behind, are a major  argument for strengthening our determination and redoubling our energy, although this  must be done by refining the definition of objectives in order to align, with demand-  ing realism, our aims with the resources available to us. It is precisely in the  'universal village' whose outlines we are beginning to make out that we must assess  the total cost - which reason prohibits - of doing without Unesco, without the dense  web of interdependence that enwraps our entire human experience, without the intel-  lectual frame on which the invisible but essential networks of harmony can be woven.
(2.10) Let us think for a moment about the extraordinary beneficial and sometimes,  unfortunately, adverse changes we have witnessed during the last 30 years. The  extension and conquest of new areas on our planet and in space itself; the rapid  obsolescence of products and the dizzy speeding up of changes that have made immediacy  a guiding principle of contemporary life; the globalization of structures, mechanisms,  exchanges and the most far-reaching processes in present-day society; the intensifi-  cation of demographic disparities in various areas: population explosion and megalo-  polization of cities in developing countries, set against zero and sometimes negative  population growth in post-industrial countries, together with an inversion in age-  group patterns that suggests that by the year 2025 less than 20 per cent of the  population will be under 20 years old, while more than 35 per cent will be over 60;  the damaging, not to mention spoliation, of the natural environment, accompanied by  the disappearance, irreversible in many cases, of hundreds of plant and animal  species; the extremely serious risks of catastrophe due to technological accidents;  the sweeping, unstoppable technolgical developments in biological engineering and  production engineering (such as automated machinery, together with so much else), in  the creation of new materials, in photonics (lasers, optical fibres, image process-  ing), in recent medical instrumentation, in space technology (satellites, remote  sfrising) ; etc.
(2.11) My training is that of a scientist, and a scientist is, by definition, a man  accustomed to team work, in whom boundless hope - of possible discovery or  innovation - coexists with the implacable realism of daily experimental practice. The  scientist advances only gradually, in a process of accumulating contrasted certain-  ties. But, in his view, far from being the goal at the end of an operation, verifi-  cation is a new starting-point that starts the climb upward once more. This modesty of  pace, this need to check the validity and utility of what is to be done, this rigorous  requirement for work to fulfil day by day the objectives that one sets oneself, will  obviously be mine. There can be no others. Modesty and ambition then, as two indis-  sociable dimensions of the one and only aim: to be useful.
(2.12) Mr President, the scientist must be aware of the needs and aspirations of the  society in which he lives. Furthermore, he must collaborate in the most lofty and  difficult task facing mankind: to shape the best of possible futures. I have always  felt the exigency of this commitment.
(2.13) Born in 1934, I belong to what is called in my country the war generation. I
987    spent my early years amidst the din of two long and cruel wars, the Spanish Civil War  and the Second World War. They were difficult times of seemingly irreconcilable  clashes, of scarcity, poverty, which irreversibly left me with the coriviction that  political peace, civil harmony, justice, freedom and individual and social well-being  are supreme values. My youth was governed by the ideal of gradually building up a  liveable society in which there would at least be room for us all, a society to which  we would all contribute but one that would be also the common heritage of all.
(2.14) This common destiny coincides, moreover, with my own personal life story.  Coming from a humble family, in which neither of my parents had been able to continue  their education beyond primary level, I learnt as a child the value of knowledge and  the value of work. We are what we make of ourselves, as we used to say at home, and  our achievements are the surest testimony of our identity. For that reason, beyond any  other consideration or advice, I look to the life of my father, a worker who retired  at the head of his firm; his life was his own work, and this to me is the most  perspicuous message.
(2.15) The process of social and political democratization in Spain coincides with  the period of my adult life. In the 1970s, democracy for my country was an objective  which was not only necessary, indeed essential, but also attainable. The question was  how to contribute to it in the most effective way possible, by helping to establish  tolerance, to extend areas of freedom, to gain ground for genuinely practised plural-  ism, and to open up my country's frontiers by ending its sterile isolation and return-  ing it fully, without presumptioii but without inhibitions, to the world community to  which it belongs.
(2.16) Mr President: for many of those present, the immediate past has been a period  of limited but interminable armed conflicts, imbalances in the world economy and an  increasing number of flagrant, unjust and inadmissible discrepancies. What is no less  certain is that at present more favourable conditions for international co-operation  are being created: the visible democratization of vast areas of the world, the  reduction of tension, the increasing realism of the claims that are being made - all  these give us reasonable grounds for hope.
(2.17) As we all know, Unesco has suffered the worst attacks upon it during this  period of harmonization and progress towards the new reality. Unesco is the most  vulnerable and fragile link in an international system which today appears even more  necessary than at the end of the Second World War. Its ultimate objective is - to  quote the words of His Majesty the King of Spain, in his address to the General  Conference in 1983 - 'to change man through education [which] means ultimately to  change societies, in peace and freedom'.
(2.18) It is impossible for us, where action is urgently needed, to move in the  right direction without exploring the general context in which Unesco should develop  its future action. Within its fields of competences - education, culture, science and  communication - Unesco must become a leading light in the service of humanity. It can  achieve this only by standing back and taking stock of the situation. On the other  hand, nothing can be achieved by merely following a series of changing impulses.
(2.19) The plenary debate in the present session of the General Conference has  emphasized the advisability of concentrating efforts on essential objectives, while  taking up the challenge of creating and maintaining the critical mass required by  global programmes, combined with certain actions which have a forebeeable catalytic  effect, so as to promote regional collaboration and help to bring in extra-budgetary  funds. This concentration in the interests of efficiency will call for interdisciplin-  ary co-operation, in order to achieve a simultaneous advance OIT all sides, and for the  mainteriance of a universal grasp of problems combined with the search for specific  solutions, in which the long-term view is not obscured by the lanamarks of past  achievements.
(2.20) No one, I feel sure, believes that the task that lies ahead will be the work  of one man. The present situation of the Organization calls for an efficient and fully  self-confident Secretariat. The staff members of the Organization are its principal  resource and therefore merit priority attention. For this reason, equal treatment for  all, a sense of personal responsibility for the work performed, greater respect for  individual initiative and transparency in all activities should become standard  practice.
(2.21) The international civil service is essential to the future of humankind, for  that future will stand in ever greater need of global projects from which appropriate  local solutions can be derived. Although a variety of allegiances frequently create  obstacles, the world in which we live is either one world or it is nothing. One  arising from the vast range of cultures, whose existence is the greatest asset  distinguishing the human condition; one, in order to defend the dignity of every woman  and every man and to safeguard human rights; one, for concerted action and dialogue in  the face of conflict, for the eradication of ignorance, and for the promotion of  justice; one, for freedom and for peace.
(2.22) Alone, we are helpless. By joining forces under the supreme banner of the  United Nations, we can succeed. For this reason, we should feel special respect for  international civil servants, who must set aside their origins, native land and  customs, although these remain intact in their heart of hearts, in order to belong  solely to the international organization which they serve, and by their efficiency,  discretion and objectivity to be equal to the lofty calling that is theirs.
(2.23) I am convinced that all members of the Secretariat, whatever their grade,  age, status or origin, will work jointly and judiciously to defend their legitimate  interests, while at the same time, mindful both of the situation facing Unesco and of  the question-mark hanging over the future, co-operating unstintingly in the search for  ways and means of doing their duty most effectively under the present circumstances.
(2.24) There is also a need to modernize our services through greater use of office  automation arid informatics and to improve our working methods by introducing the  principles of business management. At the same time, we must revitalize our evaluation  systems, combining the existing method of self-evaluation with assessments conducted  by outside bodies.
(2.25) Alongside the work of implementation, the Secretariat has the capacity to  take initiatives, which must ultimately be endorsed by the appropriate organs. HOw-  ever, it is the General Conference that is empowered to lay down policies and general  guidelines for the Organization and to decide on the allocation of funds, in the form  of the total budget granted to the Organization.
(2.26) Besides providing conditions of total independence and effectiveness - which  are not incompatible with the necessary austerity - for the functioning of the  Executive Board, 1 shall take care to establish frequent and far-reaching contacts  with the Permanent Delegations. I shall not forget how much I have learned from  members of the Executive Board and Permanect Delegates. Throughout my term of office,  but particularly during the early stages, I shall put into effect the wise counsel of  the Chinese proverb: 'We have two ears and one mouth, so we should listen twice as  much as we speak'.
(2.27) On this basis, without haste but without delay, I shall set in motion the  modernization process that we all expect and want. It is obvious, however, as I have  already pointed out, that this renewal of our methods of action must be strictly  conpatible with our permanent objectives and fully in keeping with our heritage of  past gains. Reform, then, or better still reforms, but without disruption. What  criteria should be applied? The General Conference, I believe, has just laid them down  for us with great clarity: 'Do less, but better', 'Lower volume, higher quality',  'Fewer in number with better follow-up' are the recipes that have emerged. They might  almost be termed obvious, thus stated, but they are extraordinarily difficult to put  into practice. In a body composed of 158 members, attitudes and interests are so  varied that they inevitably and legitimately tend to find expression in a multitude of  purposes and projects. So concentration, while necessary, is very difficult, both as  regards the practical goals to be attained and as regards the ways and means to be  Used.
(2.28) Around what key issues can this concentration be achieved? Once again, the  work of the General Conference provides us with decisive guidance.
(2.29) The first and most obvious is a matter which has been part and parcel of the  Organization's work since its inception. It is the promotion of literacy, now under-  stood in the broad sense as the learning and practice not only of reading skills, but  also of the other idioms we use today to understand and express knowledge and reality  (through the audio-visual media, machines, etc.) involving also a thorough, critical  grasp of the particular circumstances and requirements of the society in which they  are to be used.
(2.30) Protectioc of the environment in harmony with man, promotion of science in  the service of progress, widespread application of knowledge for the benefit of the  least developed countries, co-operation and cultural development of and among people  and nations - these are, among others, the major key issues of general interest to  Member States.
(2.31) This concentration of activities must go hand in hand with consultation and  agreement. This is the view taken by the General Conference which, ás I see it, has  made this its second line of approach. There is in fact a considerable amount of  duplication and repetition among the activities carried out by various intergovern-  mental organizations, by those organizations and States, and by public and private  agencies. A comparison between the work programes of all these bodies shows that they  overlap to a surprisingly high degree, and this means that it is absolutely necessary,  before implementation starts, to engage in consultation on all the activities which  the various authorities are planning to carry out in a given subject area or sector of
989    the programme. So far as our Organization is concerned, such consultation must be  initiated or, as the case may be, improved, first and foremost among the organizations  of the United Nations system, between them and the intergovernmental organizations of  the various regions, and between both of these and the main non-governmental organiz-  ations concerned, etc.
(2.32) To complement such consultation and concerted action, the general public in  the various Member States must be associated with our Organization's activities. This  is another crucially important point for the effectiveiiess of our work. It is  essential for this purpose that we should succeed in creating a closely woven fabric  of public support for our activities which will ensure that they truly become a  feature of real life in each specific context. The functional decentralization of our  structure and our work, to which the General Conference, the Executive Board and the  Secretariat itself have already devoted priority attention, will only be genuinely  effective if it is reflected in social as well as in territorial terms and is firmly  anchored in the field.
(2.33) It may be added that associating the public at large with our activities in  this way will bring those activities into much greater immediate prominence and will  help us to emerge from the isolation in which we, unfortunately, often find ourselves.  We, like other international organizations, are accused of living and working in ci  closed circuit.
(2.34) For this purpose, it is essential that we make the dissemination and utiliz-  ation of the results of our work one of our basic objectives. We serve if what we  accomplish is of service, that is to say, is known and used, and if its use makes a  difference to the individual and collective behaviour patterns of those for whom it is  intended. This is ultimately the sole valid criterion, the criterion that carries  conviction.
(2.35) The General Conference has also emphasized the need to strike a better  balance between, on the one hand, activities that lead to the production of analyses  (reports and studies) and legal and standard-setting texts (recommendations, resol-  utions and agreements) and, on the other, those actions that represent a direct effort  to grapple with reality by down-to-earth means. I consider this line of emphasis,  which might be defined as preferring action to words, to be of decisive importance in  giving the Organization a higher profile an,d strengthening its effectiveness, albeit  on the understanding that Unesco must work as a sponsor rather more than as an exec-  utive agency. For Unesco's function (our job is to sell yeast, not bread) is that of a  catalyst, triggering off processes and creating synergetic effects.
(2.36) To that end, economic resources are important. Bowever, what is at stake is  not only material coctributions but also, and above all, the human resources that will  enable us to advance hand in hand. This symbol of solidarity - of North and South,  East and West joining hands - might bring a glimmer of light to the horizon that has  been darkened with war, the traffic in arms and drugs, ignorance and oppression. In  this context I call upon all States - End particularly the most developed - to work  together in conjunction with numerous associate experts, and to encourage their young  people to contribute to one of the boldest transformations for which, in the name of  equity, the world is calling: the struggle - the only struggle in which we should be  called to enlist - against illiteracy, the struggle against ignorance and the struggle  for individual and collective independence.
(2.37) Humanity can scale the lofty, shining heights of peace and justice,  harmonious coexistence among people and between people and their environment, for it  is not certain that conflict is inevitable, and it is not certain that human beings  have a propensity towards aggression and war. We cannot be genetically inclined  towards love any more than towards aggressiveness. Nurture is stronger than nature.  Nurture through education, through training, in the hands of those who are labouring  throughout the world at the most difficult, most vital task of all - teachers, of  which I wish to speak here and who will be ever present in my mind throughout my term  of office.
(2.38) Peace grows and makes its home in the mind of each individual. There exists a  vast, imperceptible substratum for peace. We must recognize the uniqueness, signifi-  cance and importance of each man and woman. If all that they think, do and say is  treated as insignificant, a sense of disenchantment and helplessness sets in. And,  clearly, significance does not necessarily imply publicity. Suffice it, then, to  recognize the tremendous value of silent concern, of unlimited, anonymous generosity,  of modest disinterestedness and courage. It is enough that we should all know that in  the invisible web of love, affection and disinterestedness, in this dense, tough  fabric, are the strong threads that guide the real and continuing advance of peoples,  and that here the errors and pettiness of those who seek vainly to convince us that  all change is impossible can have no place, and vanish.
(2.39) Thousands of people connected with this Organization have from the outset  striven to achieve this end. They include Presidents of the General Conference, Chair-  men of the Executive Board, members of those bodies, Permanent Delegates, Secretariat  staff, specialists, scientists, artists, educators, politicians and so on. I wish to  remember all of them now. All, and in particular my predecessors and the Director-  General with whom I had the honour of working for over three ye.tirs as Deputy Director-  General. He has been paid the tribute he deserved. Amadou-Mahtcir M'Bow, an African of  universal stature, has laboured tirelessly at the head of the Unesco Secretariat. We  have all learnt from his valour and self-commitment. I hope that he may continue for  many years to highlight the most urgent development needs of the peoples. In order  that multilateral co-operation may be concentrated on the essential aspects of  progress and eliminate those which are harmful. In order that important long-term  activities may not constantly be set aside for the most urgent. May he continue for  many years to help make these lines from the Tenth Elegy by Rainer Maria Rilke a  reality: 'That one day, free now of the terrible visionfThat pursues me, there may  arise a song of joy'.
(2.4G) Mr President, I know the obstacles that lie in the way of change. But, as a  biologist, I know that nature has evolved through creative transformation. To those  who advocate doing nothing, to those who say that only what is possible can be done,  let us oppose, for the sake of the dignity of every individual, the never-failing  formula of innovative inspiration and of imagination, in order to demonstrate that  what is impossible to the faint-hearted is possible to the enterprising. Let us  combine our resolve and our dreams so that we may not be branded with Camus' terrible  condemnation: '...being able to achieve so much, they ventured so little'. I know that  ultimately this will not be so. Because there is an indomitable force that withstands  all, that ever emerges, that finally overcomes all obstacles. That is the creative  force that is the hallmark of humanity. It is the force of the spirit. And it has its  dwelling here.  (Applaudissements prolongés)
(3.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  This applause is more eloquent than any words of thanks I might express to  our Director-General for taking up his duties with such a brilliant and auspicious  message.
(3.2) Ladies and gentlemen, the Director-General will now take the oath.
(4) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation from the Spanish):  I solemnly undertake to exercise in all loyalty, discretion and conscience  the functions entrusted to me as the Director-General of the United Nations  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, to discharge these functions and  regulate my conduct with the interests of the Organization only in view, and not to  seek or accept instructions in regard to the performance of my duties from any  government or authority external to the Organization. Thank you.
(5) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I .now call on the Secretary of the Conference, who will read the list of  persons who have sent congratulatory messages to the Director-General on the  occasion of his election.
6. Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et  Messieurs, des messages de félicitations ont été reçus de la part des personna-  lités suivantes : S. S. le Pape Jean-Paul II ; leurs majestés le Roi et la Reine  d'Espagne ; S. Exc. M. Jose Sarney, Président de la République fédérative du  Brésil ; S. Exc. M. Vinicio Cerezo Arévalo, Président de la République du  Guatemala ; S. Exc. M. Henri Namphy, Président du Conseil national du Gouverne-  ment d'Haïti, S. Exc. M. Amine Gemayel, Président de la République libanaise ;  S. Exc. M. Alan García Pérez, Président de la République du Pérou ; S. EXC.  Mme Corazon Aquino, Présidente de la République des Philippines ; S. Exc.  M. Manuel Pinto Da Costa, Président de la République démocratique de Sa0 Tomé-et-  Principe ; S. Exc. M. France Albert René, Président de la République des  Seychelles ; S. Exc. M. Pierre Aubert, Président de la Confédération suisse ; le  Conseil des ministres de l'URSS ; S. EXC. M. Jacques Chirac, Premier ministre du  Gouvernement de la République française ; S. Exc. M. Felipe González Marquez,  Président du Gouvernement espagnol ; S. EXC. M. Son Sann, Premier ministre du  Kampuchea démocratique ; S. Exc. M. Peter Florin, Président de l'Assemblée séné-  raie des Nations Unies ; S. EXC. M. Javier Pérez de Cuéllar, Secrétaire général  de l'organisation des Nations Unies ; S. Exc. M. Jacques Poos, Vice-président du  Gouvernement et Ministre des affaires étrangères du Luxembourg ; S. Exc. M. Hans  Dieter Genscher, Ministre des affaires étrangères de la République fédérale  d'Allemagne ; S. Exc. M. Bill Hayden, Ministre des affaires étrangères d'Austra-  lie ; S. Exc. M. Leo Tindemans, Ministre des relations extérieures de la Bel-  gique ; S. Exc. Jorge Valdez Anez, Ministre des relations extérieures de la  Bolivie ; S. Exc. M. Francisco Ramfrez Migliassi, Ministre des affaires étran-  gères par intérim du Chili ; S. Exc. M. Wu Xueqian, Ministre des affaires étran-  gères de la République populaire de Chine ; S. Exc. M. Peter Varkonyi, Ministre  des affaires étrangères de la Hongrie ; S. Exc. M. Giulio Andreotti, Ministre des  affaires étrangères d'Italie ; S. Exc. M. SÓsuke Uno, Ministre des affaires  étrangères du Japon ; S. Exc. M. Khieu Samphan, Vice-président du Kampuchea  démocratique, chargé des affaires étrangères ; S. Exc. M. José Léon Talavera,  Ministre des affaires étrangères par interim du Nicaragua ; S. Exc. M. Thorvald  Stoltenberg, Ministre des affaires étrangères de la Norvège ; S. Exc.  M. Guillermo Larco Cox, Ministre des affaires étrangères du Pérou ; S. Exc.  M. Marian Orzechowski, Ministre des affaires étrangères de l'a Pologne ; S. Exc.  M. Oskar Fischer, Ministre des Affaires étrangères de la République démocratique  allemande ; S. Exc. M. Kim Yeung Nam, Ministre des affaires étrangères de la  République populaire démocratique de Corée ; S. Exc. M. François Ngarukiyintwali,  Ministre des affaires étrangères et de la coopération du Rwanda .; S. Exc.  M. Gabriele Gatii, Secrétaire d'Etat aux affaires étrangères de Saint-Marin ;  S. Exc. M. A.C.S. Ahmeed, Ministre des affaires étrangères de Sri Lanka ; S. Exc.  M. Roman NároSn9, Vice-Ministre des affaires étrangères de la Tchécoslovaquie ;  S. Exc. M. Vahit Halefoglu, Ministre des affaires étrangères de la République de  Turquie ; S. Exc. M. Rail Dizdarevié, Ministre des affaires étrangères de la  Yougoslavie ; S. Exc. M. Ide Oumarou, Secrétaire général de l'organisation de  l'Unité africaine ; S. Exc. M. Mohi Ed Dine Saber, Directeur général de l'Orga-  nisation arabe pour l'éducation, la culture et la science ; S. Exc. M. F.M.  Yaqubi, Ministre sans portefeuille de 1'Afghanistan ; S. Exc. M. Ilcho Dimitrov,  Ministre de l'éducation de la Bulgarie ; S. Exc. M. Antonio Yepes Parra, Ministre  de l'éducation de la Colombie ; S. Exc. M. Bertel Haarder, Ministre de l'éduca-  tion et de la recherche du Danemark ; S. Exc. le Ministre de l'éducation de la  Dominique ; S. Exc. M. Ahmed Fathi Sorour, Ministre de l'enseignement de  l'Egypte ; S. Exc. M. José Maria Maravall, Ministre de l'éducation de l'Espagne ;  S. Exc. M. Javier Solana, Ministre de la culture de l'Espagne ; S. Exc. M. Juan  Rojo, Secrétaire d'Etat aux universités et à la recherche de l'Espagne ; S. Exc.  Mme Mary O'Rourke, Ministre de l'éducation de l'Irlande ; S. Exc. M. Amintore  Fanfani, Ministre de l'intérieur de l'Italie ; S. Exc. M. Thougan Hindawi,  Ministre de l'éducation de la Jordanie ; S. Exc. M. Fernand Boden, Ministre de  l'éducation nationale du Luxembourg ; S. Exc. M. Mohamed Zahir Hussain, Ministre  de l'éducation des Maldives ; S. Exc. M. Hallvard Bakke, Ministre de la culture  et de la science de la Norvège ; S. Exc. M. Yahya M. Al-Manthri, Ministre de  l'éducation d'Oman ; S. Exc. M. Carlos Ortiz Ramirez, Ministre de l'éducation du  Paraguay ; S. Exc. M. W.J. Deetman, Ministre de l'éducation des Pays-Bas ;  S. Exc. M. Roberto Carneiro, Ministre de l'éducation du Portugal ; S. Exc.  M. Mohammed Bin Hamad Al Thani, Ministre de l'éducation du Qatar ; S. Exc.  M. Abdul Aziz Abdullah Turki, Sous-secrétaire 6 l'éducation du Qatar ; S. Exc.  M. Lennart Bodström, Ministre de l'éducation de la Suède ; S. Exc. M. Francis  Blanchard, Directeur général du Bureau international du travail ; S. Exc.  M. Conable, Président de la Banque mondiale ; S. Exc. M. Edouard Saouma, Direc-
33  teur général de l'Organisation des Nations Unies pour l'alimentation et l'agri-  culture ; S. Exc. M. Butler, Secrétaire général de l'Union internationale des  télécommunications ; S. Exc. M. Botto de Barros, Directeur général de l'Union  postale universelle ; S. Exc. M. Arpad Bogsch, Directeur général de l'organisa-  tion mondiale de la propriété intellectuelle ; S. Exc. M. Obasi, Secrétaire géné-  ral de l'organisation météorologique mondiale ; S. Exc. M. Domingo Siazon, Direc-  teur général de l'Organisation des Nations Unies pour le développement indus-  triel ; S. Exc. M. Arthur Dunkel, Directeur général de l'Accord général sur les  tarifs douaniers et le commerce (GATT) ; S. Exc. M. Haldan Mahler, Directeur  général de l'Organisation mondiale de la santé ; S. Exc. M. Hans Blix, Directeur  général de l'Agence internationale de l'énergie atomique : S. Exc. M. Michel  Camdessus, Directeur général du Fonds monétaire international ; S. Exc. M. C.P.  Srivastava, Secrétaire général de l'Organisation maritime internationale ;  M. Keizo Saji, Président de la Commission nationale japonaise pour l'Unesco ;  M. Soedjatmoko, ancien recteur de l'université des Nations Unies ; Mme Françoise  Laporte, Présidente de l'Association du personnel de l'Unesco ; M. S.K. Das,  Président de l'Association internationale du personnel de l'Unesco.
(7) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Executive Board.  Thank you, Mr Secretary. I now call on Mr Ivo Margan, Chairman of the
8.1 Mr MAKGAN (Yugoslavia) , Chairman of the Executive Board:  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, distin-  guished delegates, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is a privilege to have  the honour of expressing on behalf of the Executive Board and in my own name our  siiìcere congratulations to Mr Federico Mayor on his election to the high of fice  of Director-General of Unesco.
8.2 Mr President, the office of- Director-General is a position of high  responsibility: the person who fills it lias to have not only the exceptional  qualities of an international civil servant, but also those of a statesman with a  world perspective to provide Unesco with the necessary leaäership in fulfilling  its nobie objectives of advancing international peace arid the common welfare of  mankinä.
8.3 The task ir aï1 the more difficult at a time when the world ir  experiencing unprecedented social, economic arid political upheavals marked by  complexity ariá uncertainty, and when international multilateral co-operation is  at a critical stage in its developaent. Under these circumstances , the Director-  General has to show a remarkable perceptivity with regard to the processes of  change and their consequences, and must keep alive the vision of a world united  in peace and Understanding in the service of the common welfare of mankind - a  vision that the founding fathers aspired to realize by creating Unesco as part of  the United Nations Organization.  E.4 Mr Director-General, in electing you the General Conference has  recognized your merits and your abilities to assume the responsibilities of this  high office. Evidence of your qualities is to be found in your wide and rich  experience - at the national, European and international levels alike - acquired  ir1 the course of your distinguished career as a scientist and researcher, as a  minister and parliamentarian, and as an international civil servant.
8.5 Indeed, Mr Director-General, you have the advantages of a scientific  vision and temper acquired as a scientist and a researcher; of an understanding  of the challenges of development acquired as a minister of education in your own  country and as a Member of the European Parliament; and, above all, of a thorough  knowledge and appreciation of the challenges facihg Unesco and its mission,  acquired first as its Deputy Director-General and then as Special Adviser to the  Director-General. As you embark on the new functions entrusted to you, these  qualities, together with your keen awareness of the destiny of mankind and  sensitivity to the challenges facing it, will be your valuable assets.
8.6 Most important of all, Mr Director-General, you have the support of the  Member States, which, in their vast majority, manifested on 7 November 1987 their  faith and confidence in your leadership, and entrusted you with the responsi-  bility of guiding the destiny of the Organization at this critical turning-point  in its history. Indeed, this marks the beginning of a new chapter.
8.7 Mr Director-General, the future belongs to youth, and the past is a
993    storehouse of memories to learn from. I am confident that, under your youthful  leadership, young people will have a major share of responsibility in designing  the future.
8.8 It is with a serene heart that we place in your hands the Constitution  of Unesco (contained in the green book which is very well-known to you and which  you have called our Magna Carta) for you to safeguard and promote the noble  ideals enshrined in it with the single-minded dedication and commitment which are  incumbent upon you as Director-General.
8.9 As someone who has had the pleasant opportunity of knowing you and co-  operating with you for over nine years, beginning in 1978 with the preparations  for the MINESPOL II Conference of European Ministers ofi science and technology,  and subsequently during my tenure of office as President of the twenty-first  session of the General Conference, I take great pleasure in wishing you, most  sincerely, every success in the difficult but noble task entrusted to you. Thank  you, Mr President.
(9) The PRESIDENT ($ranslation from the Spanish) :  I thank the Chairman of the Executive Board for his statement. I now call  on His Excellency Mr René Monory, who will speak in his capacity as representative  of the host country.
10.1 M. MONORY (France) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames,  Messieurs les délégués, plus de 40 ans se sont écoulés depuis la création de  l'Unesco et nous entrons dans la dernière phase de la mise en oeuvre de son  second Plan à moyen terme. Au moment même 0ì.1 s'engage la préparation du troisième  Plan qui nous conduira jusqu'aux dernières années du siècle, c'est-à-dire à un  moment décisif, l'organisation se donne un nouveau Directeur général.
10.2 Les porte-parole des différents groupes géographiques vont, je n'en  doute pas, exprimer en termes très éloquents les sentiments que leur inspire  cette nouvelle phase de la vie de l'Unesco. Je voudrais maintenant, en ma qualité  de représentant du pays du Siège, avant d'évoquer les perspectives d'avenir de  l'organisation, souhaiter la bienvenue à celui qu'elle vient de porter à sa  direction et lui exprimer d'avance tous mes voeux pour l'avenir de sa mission.
10.3 L'Organisation des Nations Unies pour l'éducation, la science et la  culture ne retrouvera tout son sens, nous l'avons déjà dit, que dans son retour  à l'universalité ; mais elle ne conservera tout son sens, il faut le dire aussi  très nettement, que dans le maintien et le renforcement de l'unité des éléments  qui définissent et composent le champ de ses interventions. Cette double exi-  gence, elle est permanente dans l'itinéraire de M. Federico Mayor.
10.4 L'universalité, d'abord, dans l'acception la plus profonde de ce terme - je parle bien sûr de la participation pleine et entière de l'ensemble des pays  du monde, y compris de ceux qui ont quitté récemment l'Unesco et dont l'absence  prive l'organisation d'une partie importante de sa substance. Je parle aussi, et  cela me paraît essentiel, de la presence de toutes les cultures et de la prise  en compte de la valeur singulière de chacune. Car, Monsieur le Directeur général,  comme vous le soulignez dans votre livre intitulé "Demain est toujours trop  tard", en citant l'historien français Fernanä Braudel, cette diversité n'entre  pas en contradiction, bien au contraire, avec l'universalité. Cette conviction  que vous avez exprimée à maintes reprises n'a certainement pas été étrangère à  l'appui qu'ont apporté à votre candidature M. M'Bow lui-même dont nous devons  saluer l'attitude exemplaire, puis le Groupe des pays non alignés dont la prise  de position a contribué de manière décisive 6 l'élection de celui qui apparais-  sait des lors comme le candidat du consensus.
10.5 Si l'on se réfere aux positions que vous avez prises en de nombreuses  occasions et notamment en 1986 lors du colloque organisé par l'université de San  Diego, en Californie, sur le thème "Restructurer l'Unesco", on constate que cette  universalité apparaît à vos yeux indissociable de l'unité des principales compo-  santes de l'organisation : malgré la complexité et la spécialisation croissantes  de chaque discipline, nous sommes, comme vous, de ceux qui pensent que l'éduca-  tion, la science, la culture et la communication trouvent ici la possibilité  d'un enrichissement mutuel. Certes, l'Unesco de demain, celle qui résultera de  "l'actualisation" que vous évoquiez devant la presse après votre élection,
33  accordera sans doute une place privilégiée aux sciences et à leurs applications  au service du développement ; mais il importe également qu'elle demeure et  devienne encore davantage un lieu de rencontres et d'échanges entre la communauté  scientifique d'une part, et, d'autre part, les éducateurs, les créateurs et les  spécialistes de l'information et de la communication.
10.6 Le déroulement même de votre carriere et les orientations de votre  réflexion constituent à nos yeux, Monsieur le Directeur général, la meilleure  garantie du maintien et du développernent de cette synergie. Vous êtes en effet  biochimiste : or, la biochimie et la biologie moléculaire figurent parmi les  disciplines de pointe de notre époque où convergent les acquis de la recherche  en sciences exactes et en sciences sociales. VOUS êtes égaiement un spécialiste  de l'éducation : ancien recteur d'université et ancien ministre de l'éducation  et de la science, vous n'avez cessé de favoriser les liens entre le monde de  l'enseignement et celui de la recherche scientifique et je suis sûr que vous  aurez à coeur de renforcer ces liens au sein même du Secrétariat de l'Unesco.  Enfin vous êtes poète et, même s'il s'agit là d'un aspect plus secret de votre  personnalité, je suis certain qu'il n'en est pas le moins important et je ne  doute pas que les écrivains et les créateurs trouveront chez vous toute la com-  préhension qu'ils peuvent attendre.
10.7 Monsieur le Directeur général, dans le poème "Parole et artifice" de  votre ouvrage "A contre-vent'' , vous évoquez les débats d'une assemblée qui res-  semble fort à la nôtre : "La parole est au très honorable délégué de..." - "Et à  qui l'action ?". I1 est vrai, Monsieur le Président, que la conviction ne se  mesure pas à la longueur du discours ! Et l'action, c'est à nous, Etats membres,  qu'il revient, nous souvenant des objectifs assignés à l'Unesco dans l'Acte  constitutif par ses "pères fondateurs", de la concevoir et de la mener à bien :  nous sommes certains, Monsieur le Directeur général, de pouvoir compter sur vous  dans cette entreprise.
10.8 En ce qui concerne la France, je puis vous assurer de son concours, et  la présence aujourd'hui de nombreux représentants de la communauté intellectuelle  et scientifique française confirme encore, s'il en était besoin, l'estime dont  vous jouissez dans notre pays et les amitiés que vous y avez nouées. Cette  coopération, votre parfaite maîtrise de notre langue ne pourra que la renforcer  encore à l'avenir. C'est en tout cas le voeu que je forme pour conclure. Je vous  remercie, Monsieur le Président.
11. El PRESIDENTE:  Sr. van Loosdrecht, de los Países Bajos, quien hablara en nombre del Grupo I.  Agradezco al Sr. René Monory su mensaje, y doy ahora la palabra al  (li) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank Mr René Monory for his message, and I now call on Mr van Loosdrecht  of the Netherlands, who will speak on behalf of Group I.
12.1 Mr Van LOGSDRECHT (Netherlands) :  Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentiemen, Mr Director-General, I  have the honour and privilege to address you on this solemn occasion as the  representative of electoral Group I.
12.2 I wish to convey to you, Mr Mayor, the congratulations of my electoral  group on your appointment as Director-General of our Organization - in the world  of today perhaps the most important Specialized Agency of the United Nations  system. I do this not without hesitation, because I am fully aware of the heavy  burden of responsibilities that from this day onward you will have to shoulder. I  also acquit myself of this agreeable duty with great joy because, with the  members of electoral Group I, I am convinced that you aspired to this august  function in the spirit of service to the Organization and to the international  community of mankind.
12.3 You assume your new responsibilities under rather difficult circuni-  stances. Unesco is going through a crucial phase of its existence. Your election  as Director-General for the coming six years marks the transition to - as we  sincerely hope and expect - a period of 'revitalization' of the Organization. The  continuance of an international organization such as Unesco is not a matter of  course. An international organization should derive its raison d'être from the  seriousness of the problems it deals with, and from the contribution it can  provide to their solution.
12.4 Since the establishment of Unesco, the problems have increasingly become  larger and nore complex. It is in the perspective of a liveable world that Unesco  should, on the basis of the combined challenge of threats and new possibilities,
995    reflect on its future tasks. Beside the radical changes that have occurred in  political, military, economic, social, cultural and technological relations in  the world, new problems have manifested themselves, such as the encroachment on  the environment. The problem of overpopulation and urbanization is more acute  than ever and the gap between industrialized and non- or less-industrialized  countries seem to increase rather than decrease. The often rapid changes in  cultural patterns deserve special attention.
12.5 One of the most important tasks of Unesco for the near future is the  restoration of its credibility. This is not a task that only devolves upon you,  Mr Director-General; it requires an active involvement in the entire machinery of  Unesco of all Member States, of the professionals, the members of the Secretariat  and NGOs. In the short term, the discussion will focus on the drafting of the  third Medium-Term Plan. The two coming years have to be utilized to develop a  balanced policy document that indicates the foundations for the 1990-1996 period.  As to its form and content, changes will have to be carried through inspired by  the changed circumstances. Achieving consensus concerning this policy document  will be of the greatest importance.
12.6 Also in this document the will to restore the credibility of the  Organization should be expressed: in a programmatic sense, by means of a clear  position on priorities , evaluation and decentralization; where budgetary  techniques are concerned, through a greater discipline regarding the budgetary  estimates; in an organizational sense, by carrying through reforms that endorse  more than marginal adjustments, and by means of a new on the part of Unesco  functionaries both at Headquarters and in the Field, and through an active  contribution of all those concerned, especially of NGOs. Along these lines, we  can also pave the way for the return of Kember States that have withdrawn and for  the restoration of the universality of the Organization.
12.7 Mr Director-General, I have read in clippings of various newspapers that  you are welcomed as a new star that is expected to guide Unesco to the alluring  horizons of a brilliant future. At one of the many dinner parties you have  honoured with your presence, you referred to this metaphor with becoming moãesty.  You said that the light you can shed on Unesco is to be kindled by the sparks of  illuminating ideas of Member States. In the elegant way that seems to be your  trade-mark, you thus made it clear that, as the highest international civil  servant of the Organization, you indeed consider yourself to be the servant of  the Member States. The electoral group that I represent fully endorses this  concept of the function of the Director-General of our Organization. You are not  the representative of any specific group. You are the international civil servant  who has to be inspired in defining his policy by the justified wishes and by  careful consideration of the needs of the Member States. Your p<jlicy should be  the result of a dialogue with the members of the Organization. We regard your own  inventiveness and your contribution to this dialogue as of vital importance for  the role Unesco has to play in the fields of education, science, culture and  communication.
12.8 Mr Director-General, I think you know it yourself , you are gifted with  many talents: you are a scientist 'de renommée-_ internationale'; you have an  impressive academic and professional record as well as first-hand managerial and  organizational experience in the fields of competence of our Organization; you  have the support of the international intellectual community, and we think that  is of very great importance; and you have been elected with an overwhelming  majority of votes. With your eminent talents, with the help of the intellectual  community and with the support of the Member States that almost unanimously  invested you in this high office, you may become the person that can guide Unesco  to the brilliant future it deserves. That is our hope, that is our trust. Thank  you, Mr President.
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  of Hungary, who will speak on behalf of Group II.  I thank Mr van Loosdrecht for his statement. I now call on Mr Péter Nagy
14.1 M. NAGY (Hongrie) :  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, c'est pour moi un honneur  insigne de pouvoir, au nom du Groupe électoral II, saluer ici le nouveau Direc-  teur général de l'Unesco à l'occasion de son entrée en fonctions. Notre ûrgani-  sation a connu, tout au long de ses 40 années d'histoire mouvementée, des heurs  et des malheurs ; si nous somes ici rassemblés en ce moment solennel, c'est
33  parce que nous croyons tous à sa nécessité et à son avenir, c'est parce que nous  croyons tous qu'avec la nomination du nouveau Directeur général de l'organisa-  tion, nous entamons une ère nouvelle, encore plus fructueuse que les annees que  nous laissons derrière nous.
14.2 En Saluant M. Federico Mayor à son accession au poste de Directeur  général, nous ne saluons pas un inconnu ; nous sommes en effet nombreux à avoir  travaillé à ses côtés au sein et au service de cette Organisation et je puis  vous assurer que nous avons tous gardé de cette période le meilleur souvenir :  l'expérience des années écoulées laisse augurer pour l'avenir une coopération  encore plus intense et toujours aussi harmonieuse.
14.3 Permettez-moi ici d'ajouter une note personnelle : étant membre, comme  M. Mayor, de .la prestigieuse Académie européenne des sciences, des arts et des  lettres, j'ai pu apprécier personnellement, au cours des travaux et des séances  de l'Académie, l'ampleur de ses connaissances et la vivacité de son esprit aussi  bien que ses qualités de négociateur, ardent à chercher le dénominateur commun  entre les diverses tendances, a trouver le point d'entente même dans la tempête  des passions déchaînées.
14.4 Monsieur le Directeur général, si je viens d'évoquer deux moments -de  Votre vie passée, ce n'est pas entièrement par hasard. Nous savons grâce à la  physique moderne que l'aléatoire peut parfois découvrir des lois cachees. Votre  fonction de Directeur général adjoint, votre participation à l'Académie euro-  péenne nous renvoient à deux piliers de votre activité future : le Secrétariat  de 1'UnescO et les organisations non gouvernementales. Ajoutons-y le troisième,  qui aurait dû être mentionné en premier : les Etats membres et leur émanation au  Sein de l'organisation - les délégations permanentes. Et nous aurons nommé, à  mon humble avis, les trois piliers de votre action future. Si vous vous appuyez  sur ces trois éléments, si vous arrivez à les harmoniser et à leur imprimer  l'élan nécessaire Pour qu'ils conjuguent leurs forces dans les actions à venir,  vos efforts seront couronnés de succès, j'en suis persuadé.
14.5 Monsieur le Directeur général, lors de la conference de presse qui a  suivi votre élection, comme dans le discours que nous venons d'entendre, vous  avez souligné l'importance et l'actualité de l'Acte constitutif de l'Unesco.  Vous avez dit qu'il restera le fil conducteur de votre action future. Nous ne  pouvons qu'applaudir à cette détermination et vous encourager à le parfaire. En  effet, les tribulations par lesquelles notre Organisation a dû passer dans les  années récentes ont magistralement prouvé l'actualité de l'Acte constitutif aussi  bien que sa force de rassemblement. Néanmoins, le monde a beaucoup changé depuis  l'époque ou ce document a été rédigé et promulgué : les mêmes buts ne répondent  plus nécessairement aux-mêmes priorités. Et cela, il serait fâcheux de ne pas en  tenir compte. La fidélité à l'Acte constitutif ne peut se concevoir que dans le  changement ; et le changement ne peut être valable que dans la continuité. Les  buts, les idéaux restent - mais les moyens à mettre en oeuvre pour les atteindre,  les champs d'action dans lesquels ils prouvent leur validité peuvent et parfois  doivent changer.
14.6 Votre élection, Monsieur le Directeur général, vous pouvez en être  heureux et fier : elle a été une démonstration par la pratique du processus  démocratique. Les politologues, les psychologues pourront gloser sur elle, ils  pourront en disséquer les étapes successives : pour nous - et je crois pour vous  aussi - l'important c'est la large confiance de la communauté intellectuelle du  monde entier qui s'est manifestée dans le scrutin. Cette confiance, j'en suis  persuadé, sera amplement justifiée par votre travail à venir. Pour pouvoir la  garder et la renforcer, vous aurez besoin de la transparence et dans vos actes  et dans le fonctionnement du Secrétariat. Vous n'êtes pas naïf, Monsieur le  Directeur général, vous savez autant que moi qu'on ne peut pas toujours plaire 6  tout le monde. Mais si vous restez conséquent dans les buts que vous avez énoncés  et dans les moyens employés en poursuivant vos buts, vous pourrez toujours  compter sur l'assentiment de la grande majorité.
14.7 L'Unesco est, sans nul doute, un terrain d'entente et un terrain de  lutte à la fois. Et c'est bien ainsi, cela doit rester ainsi : c'est par cela  que la flamme de la vie continue à briller. On a soulevé récemment le problème  de la vocation de l'Unesco : doit-elle être une organisation technique s'effor-  çant d'agir efficacement dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science, de la  culture et de la communication, ou bien a-t-elle aussi une vocation théorique ?  Ce dilemme est en fait déjà résolu : les Etats membres, par la voix de leurs  éminents représentants ont affirmé tout comme vous-même, Monsieur le Directeur  général, dans différentes déclarations, que l'Unesco a une vocation double,  théorique et pratique à la fois. Pour ma part, j'aimerais souligner l'importance  de l'Unesco en tant que laboratoire d'idées, en tant que propagateur d'idées  neuves ; un laboratoire assorti d'une usine puissante, qui peut et doit traduire
997    dans la pratique les idées fortes et efficaces, un laboratoire de la pensée  théorique, mais muni d'un outillage capable de faire de ces idées une pratique,  un exercice quotidien. Cette double vocation vous commande de ne pas vous laisser  submerger par le travail pratique, par le quotidien et d'aménager dans vos jour-  nées et semaines surchargées le temps nécessaire à la réflexion.
14.8 Enumérer les tâches qui vous attendent : cela serait aussi inutile que  fastidieux, Monsieur le Directeur général. N'étant pas nouveau dans la Maison,  vous les connaissez autant que quiconque d'entre nous. Trouver la solution juste  des problèmes et deviner le moment opportun pour sa mise en oeuvre : tel est  l'art de gouverner. Je suis persuadé, nous sommes persuadés que vous possédez  cet art et que vous saurez en user. L'Unesco en a grand besoin.
14.9 C'est l'esprit dans lequel nous vous accueillons dans votre nouveau  poste, Monsieur le Directeur général, et croyez bien que, pour mener à bien  votre tâche, vous nous trouverez toujours à vos côtés. Le groupe d'Etats dont  j'ai l'honneur d'être aujourd'hui le porte-parole a largement démontré, dans le  processus qui nous a amenés à cette séance solennelle, sa volonté et sa capacité  de coopération. Nous espérons que ce n'est qu'un début, et que notre coopération  fleurira et portera des fruits au profit de l'humanité tout entière.
(15) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank Mr Nagy for his statement, and I call on Mr Hector Wynter of  Jamaica, who will speak on behalf of Group III.
16.1 Mr WYNTER (Jamaica) :  Mr President, it is tempting for an ex-politician, when facing an  audience of this magnitude, tc wish to tarry here long beyond the allotted time.  But I shall adopt the words of an English king, Henry VIïI, when he said to each  of his six wives: '1 shall not keep you very long'.
16.2 Mr President, on behalf of the group of countries known in Unesco as  Latin America and the Caribbean, it gives me overwhelming pleasure to welcome  Professor Federico Mayor as the seventh Director-General of the most coniplrx  organization, Unesco. We should like to applaud his courage in seeking the post  and the words of wisdom, challenge and imaginative vitality which he has uttered  here today.
16.3 We are encouraged by his obvious preàilection for imagination, recalling  what he said in the conference on 'Perspectives on the Crisis of Unesco" held in  California in February last year. He will forgive me if I quote him. Mr Mayor  said on that occasion:  'In a meeting held recently in Madrid, I referrea to the obstacles  opposing change, which have to be overcome. Out of all the resources to  do this, the best and the least frequently used is imagination. Is it  such a risk to go for talent? In this age of knowledge, it is turning  into the best investment you can make. You cannot win future wars with  strategies of past battles, particularly in times of crisis and  disillusion, which tend to emphasize the bad aspects and minimize the  good ones. At these times, Albert Einstein's advice can be really  valued: "In times of crisis, only imagination is more important than  knowledge. " '
16.4 Those words, Mr President, uttered by our new Director-General in 1986,  are as relevant today as they were then, and they tell us much about the  imaginative scientist whom we have installed today as Director-General.
16.5 It would be inappropriate for me to seek to give advice today to  Professor Mayor. He and his collaborators will find reams and reams of advice,  suggestions, instructions and ideas in the many rich debates in plenary and the  commissions of this General Conference. We can only express the hope that they  will be able to translate all these ideas into action-related programmes that can  strengthen Unesco's role as the catalyst in education, culture, science and  communication.
16.6 Let nie, however, Mr President, refer briefly to five of the many  challenges which 1 believe he will face. The first is the challenge of reform. It  would be deceptive and illusory to believe that the proposals by the Temporary  Committee, adopted by the Executive Board and the General Conference, mark the
33  end of the road to reform. Indeed, they mark only the beginning. The reform  process requires courage and daring. It means looking squarely at what has gone  before and how it has been implemented; it means deciding what is to be kept,  what is to be retooled and what is to be discarded so that we may welcome fresh  ideas, fresh talent and a fresh methodology to enhance the attainment of the  objectives of Unesco.
16.7 It would not be inappropriate at this point for me to refer to the  proposal we made in Sofia in 1985 arid here last month that a team of wise men and  women be mandated to look afresh at our Organization in its forty-first year, and  propose ideas to refashion it in the light of developments in today's world and  the promise of tomorrow's. We hope that this proposal will be acted on; and that  our new Director-General will, in consultation with the Executive Board, arrive  early at an .agreement on the relationship between the Board and the Director-  General in which the former will serve as the independent monitor, adviser,  philosopher and policy guide of the latter. Mr Mayor's words today encourage me  in the belief that this will happen, and happen soon.
16.8 Mr President, the second challenge is that of scientific literacy. As a  scientist, the Director-General is no doubt concerned about the terribly yawning  gap between the industrialized world ana the rest of us in scientific iiter.acy.  We wish good fortune as he and his collaborators seek to engage all t.he  international resources possible, governmental and non-governmental, in reciucing  this terrible gap. After all, development in all its aspects depends so much on  the worldwiae spread of scientific literacy , the base on which technology  prospers.
16.9 The third challenge concerns the free flow of ideas by word and image.  The views of the Director-General 011 the independence of the International  Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC) in playing a catalytic  role t.o reduce the communication gap between the aeveloped and developing world  in terms of technological and trained human resources are most welcome. We agree  with his statement that the emphasis must be on the practical, arid that - I am  quoti-ng him - 'the best way is to be able to broadcast (I myself would add "and  to print") one's own news'.
16.10 Mr President, the fourth challenge in our view is one of regionalism.  Regionalism must enhance intellectual and practical collaboration at the inter-  national level , and must not impede it. Just decentralization, with appropriate  funding and talented men and women dedicated to Unesco's objectives, can  illuminate the path to creative regionalism. For what unites us all is not a  particular language, or a particular culture, but the will to attain the noble  objectives of Unesco through international collaboration. Regionalism can ensure  this, by creating unity and co-operation, in the first place, within the regions  themselves. For the imbalance within regions must be corrected by policy-making  bodies with the willing aid of the Director-General.
16.11 The fifth and final challenge to which I refer today is that of con-  sensus. lri 1976 at Nairobi, the instrument of consensus became generally  acceptable. Like our new Director-General, we have maint-airied that consensus  should not be agreement reached at the lowest level: or to put it in mathematical  ternis, it should not be the lowest common multiple - it has to be the highest  common factor. In other words, conserìsus is to be understood in the words of that  great Spanish jurist and human rights philosopher Joaquin Ruiz Giménez who, in a  penetrative article in the Unesco publication 'Consensus and Peace' , in 1980,  wrote of Spain's progress to democracy in the late 1970s:  'It is my earnest conviction that the [Spanish] dilemma was overcome  through the gradual practice of consensus , i. e. agreements or genuine  undertakings reached through dialogue, mutual tolerance anä collective  recognition of certain basic values and principles, maximalist  aspirations being relegated to the background.'
16.12 Mr President, the challenge to Unesco is'to maintain consensus within  that excellent framework; this was also the view of our former Director-General,  Dr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, to whom tribute wzs paid this morning by the new  Director-General and this pleased us immensely. It is only by the process of  healthy consensus as defined by Ruiz Giménez that we can restore that uni-  versality so vital to Unesco's future.
16.13 Mr President, we congratulate Professor Mayor. We of Latin America and  the Caribbean shäre with him many aspects of history, culture and language. Yet  we are keenly aware that he must be the Director-General of all Unesco; we can  expect no special privileges, nor should we fear any unwelcome biases. We are  happy to pledge our co-operation, and we urge all other regions to do likewise,  as he seeks to give the beacon-light of leadership to Unesco at this time of
999    crisis. It is our genuine and fervent hope that, as the fresh wind of reform  wafts through the corridors and meeting places of Unesco, all of us will walk  with him in such a way that we will escape the raindrops of the politicization  which is more appropriate to the United Nations, but which here exposes Unesco to  the stultifying and frustrating disease of. waste and humbug.
16.14 We trust that by the fittieth anniversary of Unesco in 1996, we will so  have acted with his assistance in the processes of conceptualization and  administration that we shall be able to say, to paraphrase what a British  Minister, George Canning, remarked in 1826 when welcoming the New World of the  United States to redress the balance of the Old: 'We in Unesco have called the  Developing World into development through education, science, culture and  communication to redress the balance of the developed, and so to guarantee peace  on Earth'.
16.15 Finally, Mr Presiderit, we are confident from Mr Mayor's career, ana from  the confident description of him by his scientific colleagues from úround the  world, that he will continue to gird himself with honesty ana integrity, so that,  Like Shakespeare's Brutus in 'Julius Caesar', he can say to the Cassiuses of this  world - who will threaten, who will pressure and who will bully:  i6.i~
17.  'There is no terror, Cassius; in your threat;  For I am armed so strong in honesty  That they pass me by as the idle wind...'.  Thank you, Mr President.  ~i PRESIDENTE:  DOY las gracias al Sr. Wynter. Tiene ahora la palabra el Sr. Ananda  Guruge, de Sri Lanka, quien hablara en nombre del Grupo IV,
(17)  will speak on behalf of Group IV.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr Wynter. I now call on Mr Ananda Guruge of Sri Lanka, who
18.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive  Board, Professor Federico Mayor, Director-General of Unesco, Excellencies, ladies  and gentlemen, it is indeed an honour, an enviable privilege and a great pleasure  for me to speak on behalf of the Asia and the Pacific electoral group on this  propitious occasion when Professor Federico Mayor is inaugurated in office as the  seventh Director-General of Unesco. I thank my group nost sincerely for  conferring -this honour and privilege on me.
18.2 What makes this occasion most significant ana memorable is that the  circumstances and the process leading to his appointment to this exalted position  have more than ever convinced all of us of the collective wisdom and resource-  fulness of the international conmunity and ti-% efficacy of the time-honoured  democratic principles of international relations based on dialogue, persuasion,  compromise and consensus. Thus, while we heartily felicitate Professor Mayor on  his richly deserved appointment as the helmsman of this august Organization, we  should congratulate ourselves too on a successful and spectacular demonstration  of the underlying solidarity of nations, on the one hand, and the laudable  capacity of the international community to rise to the lofty heights of  unreserved dedication to noble ideals and sublime principles, on the other.
18.3 I shall always remember most vividly and with admiration the dramatic  display of commitment to common good which my distinguished colleagues in the  various electoral groups, the Group of 77, the Non-Aligned Movement and the  Information Group have shown over the last several weeks. Mr President,  distinguished colleagues, it is not only Professor Mayor who is the winner: we  are all winners. But the ultimate winner is Unesco, along with the multitudes of  people in every nook and corner. of the world whom Unesco serves and those  generations yet unborn who will benefit from a Unesco saved and .revitalized for  posterity.
18.4 What is equally noteworthy is that there were no losers. The extra-  ordinary situation which led to his nomination by the Executive Board without the  customary confrontation with an opposing candidate - thanks, indeed, to the  vision ana the spirit of self-negating devotion to Unesco of the outgoing  Director-General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow - has most certainly ensured the smooth  transition which we witness today.
18.5 So may I, as an unwavering devotee of Unesco, express my grateful thanks
33  to everyone far and near, present and absent, who played a constructive roie in  bringing about this happy occasion. Foremost in our thoughts among them is  Mr M'Bow himself, to whom we paid our hommage and tribute a few days ago for the  unforgettable services rendered to humanity for over two decades, confidently and  courageously, efficiently and effectively. His magnanimity and graciousness in  trying and difficult times will be long admired.
18.6 Mr President, distinguished colleagues, Unesco means very much to all of  us who have come to be associated with it in various capacities. If I may be  pardoned for the grave sin of quoting my own writings, I should like toc reiterate  the thoughts I recorded when, on the occasion of the Organization's fortieth  anniversary, I reappraised my 30-year association with Unesco, both within and  without. I wrote:  'As I review my 30-year association with Unesco - of which two-thirds was  in Asia - I am conscious of its deep and abiding contribution to my  growing up - professiorially as well as socially. What I gained from  Unesco is certainly much more than what I gave it.  It has enriched my understanding of humanity and enabled me to  sympathize with people who struggle to raise their heads in dignity, It  has brought me in contact with some of the most exemplary men of  determination and dedication. It has taught me to overcome social and  cultural prejudices, to rise above parochial sympathies and loyalties  and to respect the views and aspirations of people and peoples.  I have seen an ideal driving people to action. I have witnessed the  powers of persuasion which underlie the ethical mission of Unesco. I  have found in Unesco something worthy of being safeguarded for the  benefit of generations to come. To say it all in une sentence, it has  nade me a better man, convinced of the oneness of humanity an? the  richness of cultural diversity. This, I can vouch, would be the firm  conviction of everyone who has come under the magic charm of Unesco. '  I am indeed certain that these are common sentiments and none woul? den; the  strong and abiding emotional attachment which the noble Organization nas earned  from all of us.
18.7 This important fact needs to be highlighted to explain the fears and  concerns which have caused us much dismay in recent times. The overt anc? covert  attacks on Unesco have perturbed us not only because the Organization's growth  and effectiveness were stifled but also because the entire principle of multi-  lateral co-operation, founded on the United Nations system, with its underlying  recognition of the equality and sovereignty of Member States, was put in  jeopardy. If we had frightening visions of the concept of multilateralism  dismantlea and the United Nations system, where every nation enjoyed equal  decision-niaking power, demolished, they have not been altogether unreal. We have  not yet come out of the woods. We see no justification for either relaxing our  vigilance or for relapsing into complacence.
18.8 But we are fortunate in that we have won an understanding and dependable  ally in our new Director-General. From his public statements, we have received  ample assurance that he not only empathizes with us as regards these concerns and  anxieties but also wiìl carry on a valiant struggle to offset the real dangers.
18.9 The new Director-General's heritage is undoubtedly a mixed one. He  inherits an organization which has made a number of significant gains in  experience and expertise in responding to the crying needs and the long-cherished  aspirations of an expanding world community. Problems which its founding fathers  could never have anticipated and strategies and modalities of solving them which  were hardly dreamt of a decade or two ago, have converted the Organization into a  lively arena for challenging innovations and trail-blazing action.
18.10 In their wake have arisen new and staggering problems which continue to  test the very survival of the Organization. Areas of programme action have become  so diffuse that Unesco's description as 'the most unspecialized of the Special-  ized Agencies' has become embarrassingly apt. The concept of universality has  acquired several interlinked dimensions, such as the numerical restoration and  expansion in terms of membership, on the one hand, and achievement of full  coverage in terms of cultures, ideologies, and diverse forms of creativity and  thought, on the other. The tasks ahead are in no way simple. Many of them should  have already been tackled yesterday.
18.11 It is therefore reassuring that Profezsor Federico Mayor is a young man  in a hurry. As the title of his last book, Manana es siempre tarde, reveals, he  believes that tomorrow is always too late. But he is not an angry young man with
1001    little respect for age and experience. In dedicating this same book to his
80-year old father, Professor Mayor expresses his admiration to the father for  demonstrating that youth is not a matter of age.
18.12 It was only the other day that he made a fine distinction between  stamina and experience as relative advantages of the young and the not so young.  Be illustrated the point with his experience with his two sons in the tennis  court: with experience, he beats them both in the first set, while with stamina  they get the better of him eventually.
18.13 As a friend and erstwhile colleague, I would only embarrass  Professor Mayor if I expatiated on his magnificent scholarly record as an  outstanding scientist, his intellectual capàbilities and his personal qualities  of affability and loyalty. I must, nevertheless, relate two brief anecdotes to  illustrate his approach to work.
18.14 Coming into an office cluttered with literally hundreds of files  awaiting his orders and signatures as the Vice-Minister of Education of Spain, he  earneã the lasting respect arid confidence of his colleagues by clearing them  before the morning was out - not by giving rapid-fire orders or signing blindly  but by simply allowing his colleagues to exercise delegated powers of decision-  making. 'Do what is right as facts demand and come to me if you have doubts' is  all that he had to tell them.
18.15 The other anecdote relates to a novel procedure in marking the  examination papers of his students in the university. He made it a practice of  giving the marked papers back to the students and encouraging them to protest if  the grading was considered unfair. The thoroughness which he thus built into his  own' work and the humility with which he accepted his fallibility left no room for  even a single student to Complain over his long years as a Professor of  Microbiology.
18.16 introducing Professor Mayor to the Asia and Pacific Group two weeks ago,
1 said how four of his distinctive qualities had impressed me during his tenure  of office as the Deputy Director-General of Unesco. They were as follows: he was  accessible to all; .he was affable and friendly; he brooked no non-nonsense when  it came to the quality of work; and he had a superb sense of humour with aïi  admirable capacity to laugh at himself. These will no doubt be invaluable  resources as he embarks on the onerous duties of the office of Director-General.
18.17 He 1s also very fortunate in that he has a supportive family which  shares his intellectual and social lite in an exceedingly delightful manner. The  success of Professor Mayor's multifaceted career spanning academic, adminis-  trative, political and international spheres is a tribute to the family -  specially Mrs Angeles Mayor - as well as to himself. His innermost thoughts, as  expressed in his poetry, speak of a happy and a contented man with an urge to  share his happiness with the world at large.
18.18 Mr Director-General, in aääition to all these cardinal assets, you have  also the overwhelming confidence which we, the Member States of Unesco, have  convincingly manifested through the impressive number of votes cast in your  favour. Transcending all regional and parochial biases and loyalties, we have  placed in you our trust so that together we shall strive towards our shared  objective of leading Unesco from strength to strength. You have also gained from  us an enormous fund of goodwill, accompanied by a solemn promise of unfailing  co-operation. All we expect in return is a similar trust in us, the represen-  tatives of Member States, and the recognition of the mutually indispensable  interdependence between the Member States and the Secretariat.
18.19 You have underscored the importance of transparency in all matters. We  appreciate very much your keen understanding of the needs and wishes of the  Member States. We look forward to frank and constructive dialogue, fruitful  exchanges of information, experience and apprehensions and a joint effort to seek  solutions in the true spirit of international co-operation in keeping with  Unesco's ideals.
18.20 I should like at this stage to recall an ancient prayer in Sanskrit,  which the saintly seers of Inäia, the expounders of the Upanishads, themselves  dauntless leaders of a momentous intellectual revolution 30 centuries ago,  uttered as they settled down together to pursue the common quest for inner peace.  These words which reverberated for centuries in the Indo-Gangetic basin would  most eloquently reflect the thoughts we would like to share with you on this  solemn occasion when together we enter into a covenant with similar goals: Om  saha nav avatu (may we be protected together); Saha nau bhunaktu (may we be  supported together) ; Saha virya karavävahai (may we make our effort together) ;  TejasvT nav adhftam astu (may our achievement be illustrious) ; Ma vidvisavahai  (may there be no ill-feeling between us); Om 6ántib 5anti.b 6Zntih (peace, peace,  peace).
18.21 Mr Director-GeneralI with this fervent prayer, let me wish you a very  fruitful and illustrious tenure of office. May all your efforts be crowned with  success and may Unesco serve humanity in its earnest quest for peace, prosperity  and fultilment. If any exhortation need be added, I could not think of anything  better than what the Buddha told his disciples: Ma nivatta abhikkama - 'Do not  turn back. Go forward.' Thank you.
(19).  Mr Iba Der Thiam, who will speak on behalf of Group V(a>.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank Mr Guruge for his statement on behalf of Group IV. I now call on
20.1 M. THIAM (Senegal) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence genérale, Monsieur le Président  du Conseil exécutif, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, Monsieur le Directeur  général, au moment où vous prenez officiellement, Monsieur le Directeur général,  les importantes fonctions que la communauté internationale a décidé de vous con-  fier par un vote massif, je voudrais, au nom des 50 Etats membres du Groupe  électoral V (a) et en mon nom personnel, vous exprimer du fond du coeur les  felicitations sinceres du continent africain, ainsi que ses voeux de succès dans  la difficile mais exaltante mission que vous avez accepté de conduire.
20.2 Si j'ai dit que votre mission est difficile, c'est essentiellement pour  deux raisons : la première est que vous entrez en fonctions à un moment où notre  monde est malade de ses propres extravagances, malade de ses fantasmes, malade  de ses frayeurs, malade enfin de n'avoir jamais su concevoir pour tout l'homme  et pour tous les hommes un cadre de vie et un ordre international acceptables.  La seconde raison, je la vois dans ce décret implacable du destin qui Veut que  vous entamiez l'exercice de vos nouvelles fonctions dans un contexte dominé par  la plus grave crise que le système de coopération multilatérale ait connue depuis  la seconde guerre mondiale.
20.3 J'ai dit que notre monde actuel est malade, parce que la course de Plus  en plus folle aux armements étonne autant qu'elle révolte. A l'heure où la pau-  vreté sévit encore à une vaste échelle sur notre planète, où les grandes endémies  sont loin d'être stoppées et où la mortalité infantile continue à frapper,  occasionnant la disparition de millions d'enfants à l'aube de leur vie, à l'heure  oÙ le nombre d'analphabètes augmente au lieu de diminuer et où les aspirations  en matière d'éducation, de formation professionnelle, d'emploi ne cessent de  croître, à l'heure où les besoins d'une nourriture saine et d'un habillement et  d'un logement décents sont loin, très loin même, d'être satisfaits, des milliards  de dollars sont engloutis dans la recherche et la fabrication d'engins de des-  truction massive dont la sophistication et la puissance meurtrière sont toujours  plus grandes et qui sont aujourd'hui capables de supprimer toute trace de vie  humaine sur la terre. Des lors, toute vision optimiste d'un avenir assure, qui  soit un avenir de paix et de bonheur pour tous, apparaît jour après jour comme  une perspective plus lointaine, pour ne pas dire illusoire.
20.4 Victime de ses craintes, vivant continuellement dans l'incertitude du  lendemain, notre monde a de plus en plus de mal à maîtriser le déchaînement de  la violence et des passions et les comportements frileux d'autodéfense qu'il  génère. La peur de l'autre, la méfiance envers l'autre, sont devenues des moteurs  obscurs qui brouillent tout notre champ relationnel et secrètent des traumatismes  et des tensions qui transforment des êtres jadis paisibles en monstres veri-  tables. La force est glorifiée, mythifiée, exaltée, adulée ; la violence, y com-  pris le terrorisme le plus aveugle, au lieu d'être combattue est au contraire  justifiée. L'homme n'a jamais cessé, malgré tous les progrès accomplis, d'être  un loup pour son semblable.
20.5 Notre monde est malade du fait de son manque de perspective et de gran-  deur, je veux dire d'adhésion 5 un certain nombre de valeurs universelles qui  pèsent et qui apaisent. Là où la sensibilité 6 l'égard des faibles, des déshéri-  tés, des malades, des orphelins, des veuves, des éprouvés, des étrangers, des  affamés ou des analphabètes aurait du forger des chaînes d'amour, des chaînes  d'une solidarité chaleureuse et indestructible, 5 l'échelon de l'humanité tout  entière, l'étroitesse des égoïsmes, la vivacité des préjugés idéologiques et  politiques, les lois inhumaines d'une économie mondiale conçue beaucoup plus  pour asservir l'homme que pour le servir, ont amoncelé d'innombrables obstacles,  gelé les énergies et découragé les initiatives constructives ; là où une vision  moins dérisoire, je veux dire plus élevée, plus humaniste, de la dignité humaine,  aurait dû faire du droit de chaque être au bonheur et au bien-être un motif
1003    d'émulation, et du respect de chaque homme l'idéal à atteindre et à dépasser,  notre monde n'a pas su comprendre, et encore moins prévoir et guérir.
20.6 Notre monde est aussi malade des préjugés, de l'intolérance, de l'incom-  préhension, du fanatisme, du racisme et de l'apartheid, comme si la longue et  douloureuse histoire de la condition humaine et les tributs lourds et macabres  de souffrance payés à ces fléaux à travers les âges, ne renfermaient nulle leçon  susceptible de lui enseigner combien le refus de l'autre, le mépris culturel ou  le rejet de l'autre ont toujours été un poison, une source de discorde, de haine,  d'antagonismes violents, de souffrances indicibles. Or, n'est-ce pas Claude  Aveline qui nous rappelle, avec cet oecuménisme dont il avait le ~ecret, que  nous ne devons jamais oublier que dans chaque vie, dans chaque coeur, résonne la  douleur du monde, avant d'ajouter : "qu'elles fussent d'un homme blanc, d'ùn  h o m e  noir ou d'un homme jaune, toutes les larmes sont salées"? Notre monde est  malade d'avoir semblé croire que le droit, la justice, la liberté, l'égalité ne'  devraient pas être des attributs communs à toute l'humanité, mais l'apanage  exclusif de certains. Bref, notre monde est malade d'avoir perdu la notion de  l'humain, après avoir perdu celle de la nature et du divin car il a, en plus8  renoncé à un certain sens du beau, du bien, du vrai, du grand, du sublime, sans  lesquels aucune cause ne devient véritablement passion - je veux parler de cette  émotion qui étreint, mobilise, galvanise et triomphe des défis, ce sentiment que  Montherlant a su si merveilleusement traduire en cette formule ramassée : "tout  ce qui n'est pas passion est sur un fond d'ennui".
20.7 Cependant, Monsieur le Directeur général, notre monde n'est-il pas  depuis longtemps celui de l'ennui, dominé qu'il est par les problèmes de l'en-  dettement, de la récession économique, de l'instabilité monétaire, du protec-  tionnisme commercial et tout récemment de la crise boursière ? Les génies  naissent et meurent dans l'indifférence. Les talents se fanent, les étoiles  perdent leur éclat ; la puissance, le profit, les médias inventent les idoles de  leurs rêves, modèlent nos goûts, orientent nos choix, domestiquent les cons-  ciences. Et pourtant, juchée sur ces mutilations, l'Unesco doit trouver les  coordonnées de sa raison d'être et de ses raisons de servir. Si les hommes  étaient sages, au sens où la philosophie antique entendait ce terme, un tel  contexte pourrait éveiller et réveiller les consciences, secouer les engourdis-  sements et porter & rechercher des pistes nouvelles, d'autres contrats de soli-  darité, d'autres modèles de coopération, fondés sur la confiance et l'égalité  retroyvées, en un mot les linéaments d'un partenariat d'un type et d'un style  rénoves, parce que mutuellement avantageux, parce que surtout fondés sur l'éga-  lité souveraine des Etats, de tous les Etats grands ou petits, riches ou pauvres,  anciens ou nouveaux, et sur l'égaie dignité des cultures et l'évidente inter-  dépendance de notre destin terrestre.
20.8 AU contraire, Mmsieur I Directeur général, voilà que vous allez  prendre vos fonctions dans un contexte parasité par des tentatives insidieuses  ou ouvertes de remise en cause du systdme de coopération multilatérale telle  qu'elle était jusqu'à présent incarnée par le système des Nations Unies. C9 n'est  plus un mystère pour personne, la coopération multilatérale est, elle aussi, me-  nacée. Malade de ses succès, elle est rnen-.de parce qu'elle a réussi - en incar-  nant superbement la conscience vigilante et exigeante du monde - à accélérer en  moins de quinze ans le processus de la décolonisation en Asie, en Afrique et dans  les Caraïbes, permettant ainsi à des peuples, hier encore soumis au joug de la  domination étrangère, d'accéder à l'indépendance. Elle est menacée parce qu'après  avoir contribué à leur libération, la cooperation multilatérale est parvenue à  intéresser ces nouveaux Etats à la vie associative internationale, au nom des  nobles idéaux que les fondateurs du système des Nations Unies avaient affirmés  avec flamme et ardeur avant de les immortaliser dans des déclarations aux accents  irrésistibles - des déclarations dont chaque mot était un témoignage à la fois  de leurs fautes passées, de leurs regrets ou concessions, mais aussi de leurs  attentes et de leurs espoirs, exprimé avec toute leur âme, j'allais dire avec  leur sang et leur chair.
20.9 Si la coopération multilatérale est aujourd'hui menacée par le mirage  de la force militaire, les tentations de la puissance économique, financière,  matérielle ou démographique ou par les illusions de la grandeur culturelle,  toutes notions dont l'histoire universelle prouve abondamment qu'elles ne sont  ni éternelles ni invariables, c'est que la coopération bilatérale offre les con-  ditions idéales d'un duo où le plus fort peut exercer sa suprématie et son auto-  rité et dicter sa loi sans recevoir la moindre réplique. Voilà pourquoi des  notions telles que l'égalité souveraine des Etats, hier exaltée et portée aux  nues, sont aujourd'hui bruyamment décriées. On prône à cor et 6 cri que la force  doit désormais primer partout le droit ; on suspend les subventions et les dons ;  on décide la rétention punitive des contributions payables, on planifie l'accu-  mulation des arriérés pour infléchir le droit souverain de chaque Etat de déter-  miner librement les opinions, les avis et les orientations qu'il estime les plus
33  conformes à ses intérêts. Ainsi, de proche en proche l'affrontement prend le pas  sur la conciliation ; les conflits d'intérêt, compréhensibles et souhaitables  même en ces matières délicates, dégénèrent en antagonismes rugueux et crispés ;  l'incompréhension s'instaure, la méfiance s'épaissit, l'inimitié s'établit, le  dialogue achoppe et se lacère sur les aspérités aiguisées des frustrations et  des rancoeurs accumulées.
20.10 Les Etats nouvellement indépendants et tous ceux qui sont encore sinon  fragiles, du moins vulnérables, voient ainsi s'écrouler, par pans entiers, les  espoirs légitimes et sincères qu'ils avaient trop vite placés dans une coopéra-  tion qui paraissait seule capable de leur garantir une participation égalitaire  à la gestion des affaires du monde et qui ne leur renvoie pas continuellement  l'image de leur faiblesse économique ou de leur inexpérience diplomatique. Leur  désarroi n'a d'égal que leur impuissance et le sentiment amer de participer à un  jeu dont les règles ont été modifiées 5 mi-chemin a envahi nombre d'entre eux.  La jeunesse, témoin de tant de déceptions, considère tout compromis comme une  abdication. La vie intérieure des Etats est directement interpellée par des  questionnements dont nul acteur du jeu politique local ne maîtrise les données,  et moins encore les solutions.
20.11 Monsieur le Directeur général, si je viens de peindre ce tableau qui  peut paraître pessimiste, ce n'est certainement pas pour dire que l'Unesco a  besoin actuellement d'un surhomme. Vous nous suffisez amplement, tant il est  vrai que comme Valéry Larbaud a pu l'écrire sans se contredire : "le mot homme  dépasse le mot surhomme, d'une immense hauteur". J'ai voulu simplement mettre en  évidence certains paradoxes dont nous devrons tous prendre conscience pour leur  opposer l'alternative la plus appropriée.
20.12 J'ai en effet tout d'abord constaté que, present à tous les détours de  l'humaine condition, irrigué par les événements nés des aspirations profondes  des peuples, connecté aux idées, aux symboles, aux concepts, aux valeurs et aux  références les plus universellement acceptables, menacé par les séismes destruc-  teurs d'une coopération multilatérale qui semble douter d'elle-même et de son  avenir, infléchissant le cours de l'histoire mondiale ou en subissant le contre-  coup, l'idéal qu'incarne l'Unesco est à la fois revendiqué et vilipendé de tous  côtés. Sous ce rapport, ni pour ses thuriféraires, ni pour ses détracteurs, la  crise de l'Unesco n'a surgi comme la foudre dans la nuit. Elle résulte de la  conjonction de plusieurs facteurs et ne doit, comme telle, être ni surestimée,  ni sous-estimée. Elle pose un défi que vous devez, Monsieur le Directeur général,  que nous devons tous ensemble relever, dans l'union des coeurs et des esprits.
20.13 J'ai ensuite observe qu'en dépit, ou à cause, de la morosité apparente  du climat international, la participation au combat pour la survie de l'Unesco  prend de plus en plus les accents mystiques d'une croisade, comme pour montrer à  tous que la volonté des Etats membres et du Secretariat d'aider l'organisation à  conjurer victorieusement tous les périls de l'heure n'a jamais été aussi grande,  n'a jamais été aussi riche d'intérêt, d'animation et d'agrément. Comme Corneille  le fait dire à l'un de ses héros, "le temps est un grand maître, il règle bien  des choses". Fions-nous à son jugement et offrons à nos détracteurs un rempart  de conscience inébranlable tout le temps qu'il sera nécessaire.
20.14 Mon optimisme m'apparaît d'autant plus raisonnable qu'après le travail  remarquable de redressement, de restructuration, de redéploiement du personnel,  de decentralisation, de concentration, de réformes, de gestion sans cesse amé-  liorée et d'assainissement financier que votre illustre prédécesseur a réalisé  avec efficacité et competence, vous accédez à la tête du Secrétariat avec au  moins cinq atouts exceptionnels.
20.15 Intellectuel de haut rang, vous avez acquis dans le monde difficile et  exigeant des savants une notoriété, une personnalité, une crédibilité, une auto-  rité qui forcent l'admiration et qui disent, mieux que mille discours, votre  vaste culture, votre intelligence vive et féconde, votre aptitude largement prou-  vée 5 la recherche, aux débats d'idées, votre esprit de novation et d'innovation,  de créativité et d'inventivité. Tel est, Monsieur le Directeur général, votre  premier atout. Je suis sûr que vous en tirerez profit pour ne jamais oublier,  dans l'exercice de votre difficile mission, ce mot d'un philosophe selon lequel  "toute grande oeuvre d'art est le fruit d'une humilité profonde". Or, selon moi - et je suis sur qu'il en est de même pour vous - la fonction de Directeur géné-  ral de l'Unesco est, dans une large mesure, une véritable oeuvre d'art.
20.16 Mais, loin d'être un savant emmure dans son laboratoire aseptisé, sourd  aux problèmes sociaux qui frappent 5 sa porte, vous avez touché aux poisonx et  aux délices du pouvoir, dans un secteur aussi difficile et éprouvant que le  Ministère de l'éducation nationale de votre pays. Vous avez ainsi fait l'appren-  tissage de la vraie responsabilité, celle à propos de laquelle Corneille a pu  dire : "Qui veut pouvoir tout, ne doit pas tout oser". Commander, organiser,
1005    décider, diriger, sanctionner, louer, prendre aux lieu et place de tous la res-  ponsabilité solitaire des échecs, partager avec tous le fruit collectif de tous  les Succès, y compris des succès personnels, braver la tempête des cabales,  l'ouragan des critiques malveillantes, des procès d'intention et des campagnes  de presse, affronter la bourrasque des conflits sociaux, concilier les besoins  des Etats avec la modicité des moyens, doser les ambitions au mieux des intérêts  de tous, gérer dans la transparence le bien de tous : voilà bien des qualités  que vous avez acquises dans votre vie professionnelle antérieure, en tant qu'en-  seignant, que ministre, que recteur, ou que parlementaire, et qui vous confèrent  un second atout face à votre nouvelle mission. VOUS en tirerez d'autant plus de  succès que vous n'aurez garde d'oublier ce conseil de Montesquieu qui enseignait  "quand on veut gouverner les hommes, il ne faut pas les chasser devant soi, il  faut les faire suivre".
20.17 Votre troisième atout, Monsieur le Directeur général, réside dans la  familiarité que vous avez acquise avec la responsabilité qui vient de vous être  confiée. L'Unesco n'est pas pour vous une grande dame inconnue, lointaine, mys-  térieuse et hautaine. Cette dame, vous l'avez abordée à un moment de votre vie,  vous l'avez approchée, vous vous êtes intéressé à elle, elle vous a attiré et  vous vous etes enlacés, et vous avez même esquissé ensemble quelques pas de  danse. Si brève qu'ait pu être cette idylle, elle vous aura permis de percer son  intimité. Directeur général adjoint puis conseiller spécial du Directeur général,  vous avez été associé de très près à la vie, à l'histoire, aux choix, aux espoirs  comme aux problèmes de l'Organisation. Vous vous êtes familiarisé avec son Acte  constitutif, ses organes, son organigramme, ses programmes, ses personnels, ses  enjeux, ses défis, ses ambitions et ses déceptions. vous en connaissez les sub-  tilités diplomatiques et politiques. Vous avez maîtrisé la complexité technique  des problèmes auxquels elle est confrontée. Là aussi, vous avez tout pour réus-  sir, à condition de faire vôtre cette pensée de Saint-Exupéry : "Dans la vie, il  n'Y a Pas de solutions. I1 y a des forces en marche. I1 faut les créer et les  solutions suivent".
20.18 Votre quatrième atout, je le trouve dans votre pays. Catalan d'origine,  vous êtes comme Teilhard de Chardin, l'homme des synthèses les plus audacieuses,  qui ne craint pas de passer pour l'homme de la concorde. Votre patrie, l'Espagne,  est la terre par excellence des symbioses et des osmoses. Lieu géométrique de  rencontres plusieurs fois millénaires, elle a connu des couches successives de  sédimentation culturelle où les apports des Ibères, des Wisigoths, ceux des  Francs, des Arabes, des Almoravides, donc des Africains, des Juifs, des Indiens  d'Amérique et des composantes septentrionales, centrales et méridionales du vaste  empire de Charles-Quint ont formé un humus qui est avant tout un humanisme.  L'Espagne, c'est le pays du soleil, de la joie de vivre, du rire sonore, de la  gaîté ambiante, de la parole écarlate, du chant et de la danse. L'Espagne, c'est  la patrie du courage viril, le berceau des grandes découvertes, celuï des con-  quistadores "ivres d'un rêve héroïque et brutal", désireux de bousculer les  frontières de l'oekoumène qui sont autant d'âmes violentes que déchire la vie.  Mais l'Espagne c'est surtout la patrie par excellence de la paix, de la concorde  et de la fraternité, celle des arts et des lettres qui a très vite compris que  ce qui enrichit les peuples, ce sont leurs différences complémentaires et que ne  rien trouver de ridicule est certainement, comme l'écrit Valéry Larbaud, le  signe de l'intelligence complète. D'avoir compris que chaque peuple a ses valeurs  symboliques et que toutes les sociétés modernes doivent s'enorgueillir d'être  devenues des sociétés polyculturelles, a fait de votre pays un pôle de référence  et un exemple édifiant pour tous ceux qui aspirent à ne rien renier de leur his-  toire, et 6 en assumer pleinement aussi bien l'or que l'écume.
20.19 A tous ces atouts, Monsieur le Directeur général, vous en avez ajouté  un cinquième : je veux parler de votre magnétisme personnel. Homme de contact  d'une très grande chaleur humaine, votre amabilité naturelle, votre absence de  préjugés qui est ouverture à l'autre, votre disponibilité, votre sens de l'ami-  tié, l'urbanité de vos manières, votre sérénité, votre optimisme, qui est foi en  l'homme, votre clairvoyance, votre esprit de mesure et d'équilibre inspirent  confiance et forcent le respect et la considération.
20.20 Ainsi tout concourt à affirmer que, même si les chemins de votre itiné-  raire sont loin d'être linéaires, la direction suivie n'a jamais 6th équivoque.  Elle conduit, avec une étonnante constance, à la primauté de l'excellence et à  la foi en l'universel. Voilà pourquoi le Groupe africain, que vous avez apaisé  et avec le représentant duquel vous avez plusieurs fois discuté, vous soutiendra,  avec la même sincérité et le même engagement qu'il a soutenu votre prédécesseur,  qui est, nous le savons tous, votre ami. NOUS vous soutiendrons parce que nous  sommes surs que comme Montesquieu, vous pourrez vous aussi, au terme de votre  mandat, proclamer haut et fort après avoir parcouru votre bilan d'un regard  rétrospectif : "Si je savais quelque chose qui me fût utile et qui fût préjudi-  ciable à ma famille, je le rejetterais de mon esprit. Si je savais quelque chose
33  utile 5 ma famille et qui ne le fût pas 6 ma patrie, je chercherais à l‘oublier.  Si je savais quelque chose utile 6 ma patrie et qui fût préjudiciable à l’Europe,  ou bien qui fût utile 6 l‘Europe et préjudiciable au genre humain, je le regar-  derais comme un crime”. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur  le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences,  Mesdames et Messieurs, je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.
(21) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Majali of Jordan, to speak on behalf of Group V(b).  I thank Mr Iba Der Thiam for his statement. I now call on Mr Abdelsalan
(22.1) Mr MAJALI (Jordan) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr President of the General Conference, I thank you for giving me the  opportunity to speak on this historic occasion so that I may greet the new  Director-General.
(22.2) Mr Federico Mayor, it is my privilege to extend to you on behalf of all the  members of the Arab Group, our warm friendship, appreciation and loyalty, and to  congratulate you on your appointment to the post of Director-General of this  international organization which is playing a leading intellectual and cultural role  in a world marked by intellectual, economic and political disruption.
(22.3) Mr Director-General, you take up your responsibilities today in difficult  circumstances and at a time when storms continue to rage around the Organization,  which stands in great need of the wise command of a captain such as yourself to  defend and safeguard it, and keep it on its course. We hope that the course charted  during the decisive and successful term of office of your distinguished predecessor  at Unesco, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M’Bow, will continue to be followed, and the endeavour  to achieve the aims of the Organization in the context of international  co-operation, understanding and peace, will be pursued.
(22.4) Mr Director-General, what does the world want of you as the captain of this  Organization? The answer is simple. It wants you to ensure that Unesco retains its  universal character and freedom of action so that it will be faithful to its  Constitution and objectives and never deviate from its principles; so that it will  safeguard the unity of humanity and respect for all its cultures, irrespective of  origin; so that it will threaten no one, bow to no threat and refuse any compromise  with regard to the rights of peoples and individuals; so that it will champion all  peoples, defend their rights, help them to assert their own identity and to  establish their position in the world and provide them with the opportunity to  participate freely in building international understanding and co-operation.
(22.5) Mr Director-General, the world which placed its full confidence in this  Organization during the past decade is also prepare4 to express confidence in its  future as a continuously evolving organization that is constantly renewing its  values and establishing increasingly higher standards of performance. The Third  World has progressed along with the Organization. It has developed its culture and  thinking on the basis of its principles, has put its faith in its objectives and has  participated in their enrichment. It has pledged its support to Unesco,  co-operating with all the countries of the world to consolidate its position as a  strong organization which exercises its intellectual and cultural leadership without  arrogance or discrimination. In this way, Unesco has flourished as a free and  strong organization, humanistic in its approach, objective in its decisions and  upright in its thinking. Mr Director-General, all that the Third World wants is
33  that you should ensure that the Organization continues to support the cultures of  all peoples and to recognize their contributions to the progress of humanity. It  wants Unesco to continue to promote genuine interaction between the cultures and  values of all peoples, to champion their just cause, particularly those of peoples  who are enduring harsh living conditions, such as foreign occupation, racial  prejudice, backwardness or poverty, and to give all peoples of the Third World the  opportunity to express their ideas, culture and identity. The Third World wants  Unesco itself to be free from financial pressure and to search for new and  diversified sources of funds. Lastly, Mr Director-General, the Arab Group wants  precisely what is wanted by the Third World and by the world at large.
(22.6) The Arab Group, which has had the privilege of being first in uniting the  Third World and in obtaining its virtually unanimous support for your candidature,  would like to congratulate you once again on your appointment as Director-General of  this Organization, wishing you every success in the performance of your difficult  task. The Arab Group would also like to reiterate its attachment to a number of  principles.
(22.7) The cause of the Palestinian people, reflected in its resistance to  continuing aggression against its civilization and culture and against its cultural  and national identity, has always been a subject of concern in this Organization.  We hope that it always will be until such time as the Israeli occupying authorities  respond to the Organization's resolutions, and that these resolutions will remain a  source of hope for the Palestinian Arab people in regard to the protection of its  heritage and culture and a means of counteracting the aggression against that  heritage. The reports prepared by representatives of the Director-General on  educational institutions in the occupied Arab territories and on Israel's attacks on  the heritage of mankind in Jerusalem are perhaps two of the more prominent  achievements of Unesco in defence of the identity of the Palestinian people.
(22.8) For some time now it has been our hope that Arabic, which is the official  language of the countries of the Arab Group and one of the basic cultural languages  of the Islamic peoples, would achieve the level of importance enjoyed by the other  official working languages, and that all the documents, reports and working papers  of conferences and meetings would appear in Arabic as well as in the other official  languages. It has also been our hope that Arab culture would occupy the position it  merits in Unesco's plans and programmes and that that position would be strengthened  so as to enable it to contribute to the development of universal culture.
(22.9) Mr Director-General, such is the legitimate aspiration of the Arab Group,  the Third World and the world at large. Are we going to be able, together, to  fulfil it? The peoples of the world have given you their vote of confidence,  recognizing you .as a man of ability. The Arab Group recognizes you both as a leader  and as a scientist. Good leaders, Mr Director-General, are anxious to develop  future leaders and to train the younger generations, as reflected in the Executive  Board decision on youth leadership. Scientists, Mr Director-General, have free,  honest and objective minds which hold firm to the truth, even when it stands alone  against all. The Arab Group, which is aware of your great interest in scientific  questions, is also aware of your concern for the human individual, as demonstrated  by the outstanding research you have conducted in embryology. It is confident that  your concern for human beings at this early stage of their lives, even before birth,  will extend to every phase of their development, in times of weakness as well as of  strength. That same solicitude will also be reflected in the support which you will  give the Organization, so that it may preserve its outstanding brilliance, the  soundness of its structure and the integrity of its principles.
(22.10) Mr Director-General, you belong to a country which lies between the north  and the south and to a culture which has performed a mediating function between the  cultures of the world. Spain is, indeed, situated at the cross-roads of many  cultures, and was the crucible in which the interaction of Arab and Western cultures  gave rise to that resurgence of scientific knowledge which spread to the whole world  through Europe.
(22.11) Mr Director-General, the world in general and the Third World in particular  aspire to a universal organization that respects all cultures; the confidence that  we and the whole world have placed in you will help you to fulfil that aspiration.  It is my sincere wish that you may find the fortitude that the direction of this  Organization requires. May God grant you blessings, protection and success.
(23) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank Mr Majali for his statement. Before concluding, I call on the  Secretary of the Conference, who will communicate to us the list of other  distinguished persons who have sent congratulatory messages for this investiture.
24. Le SECRETAIRE :  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, d'autres messages de  félicitations ont été reçus de la part des personnalités suivantes : S. Exc.  M. Ahmed Taleb Ibrahimi, ministre des affaires étrangères de l'Algérie ; S. Exc.  M. Francisco Fernandez Ordoñez, ministre des affaires étrangères de l'Espagne ;  S. Exc. M. Abdelkarim Al-Aryani, vice-premier ministre et ministre des affaires  étrangères du Yémen ; S. Exc. M. Abdul Kadir Ezzideen, ministre de l'éducation  de l'Irak ; M. Wiliam H. Draper, administrateur du Programme des Nations Unies  pour le développement ; le Cardinal Alexandro do Nascimento et M. Gerhard Meier,  respectivement président et secrétaire général de Caritas internationalis. Merci,  Monsieur le Président.
(25.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, in concluding this ceremony  of investiture of the Director-General, I thank you all for your presence here today.
(25.2) The meeting is adjourned.  La séance est levée 5 13 h.05  The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.05