Neuvième séance plénière
24 octobre 1987, à 10 h 10  Président : M. PUTZEYS ALVAREZ (Guatemala)  Ninth plenary meeting
24 OKTR6pR 1987 ï. B 10.10  HpencenaTent.: r-H HYTCERC AJIbBAPEC (haTeMana)
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  We shall begin our work today by continuing the general policy debate, I give  the floor to H.E. Mr Kebatlamang Pitseyosi Morake, Minister of Education, Chairman o€  the National Commission of Botswana for Unesco and head o€ his country's delegation.
2.1 Mr MORAKE (Botswana) :  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, may I join others who spoke before  me in congratulating you, Mr President, on your election to the presidency of the  twenty-fourth session of the General Conference and in wishing you success in  your difficult leadership task. I assure you of my delegation's fullest support  and co-operation throughout the tenure of your presidency.
2.2 Mr President, we meet again at a time when our world is still afflicted  with destructive conflicts and bickering. Although it is obvious that man has  still not learnt to live with other men in peace, we take comfort from the fact  that effosts continue to be made through organizations such as Unesco to strive  for a peaceful and just world. History teaches us that meaningful and positive  development for the benefit of all mankind takes place at the greatest pace  during periods when conflicts are minimal. We note that in the field of culture  there is a trend leading back to the idealistic 1960s and hope that this trend  will extend to other spheres of human endeavour and, in particular, efforts to  bring about better living conditions for all.
2.3 My country, Mr President, lies in a region which has more than its fair  share of problems. None of the countries in Southern Africa is not afflicted by  the chilling effects of apartheid. In spite of this, Mr President, we cannot  afford to lose hope. Botswana has indeed, in the best way it could, tried to  demonstrate to the minority regime in South Africa that there is nothing to fear  from pursuing policies írom which all its people, regardless of race, can equit-  ably benefit.
2.4 Mr President, like many Member States we believe efficiency in the  management of the aftairs of this Organization is vital. Unesco should never be  allowed to weaken or disintegrate. In fact Botswana will always support correc-  tive measures whenever it is necessary.
2.5 This Organization has over the last four decades of its existence played  too great a role in the promotion of causes aimed at bringing about better living  conditions for all humanity to be taken lightly. For this reason, we are ais-  turbed by current trends by which some Member States want to run away from prob-  lems afflicting many international organizations rather than solve them. We  wonder how many useful organizations such as Unesco will survive if Member States  threaten or proceed to pull out of them whenever these are problems.
2.6 Another source of concern, Mr President, is that while such organiz-  ations are meant to promote a free exchange of ideas among countries regardless  of their size, wealth or ideology, there is a growing tendency by some Member  States to adopt policies which make the attainment of such an objective diffi-  cult. Naturally, Mr President, in such endeavours individuals as well as  countries are bound to approach issues from different angles. These differences  should never be allowed to divide our world permanently. Equally, we urge those  Member States which have the means not to use their advantage in a way which  compromises this objective. It is our fervent hope that we will use this occasion  to reinforce our resolve to strengthen this great body.
2.7 Mr President, after a careful examination of Document 24 Cl5 we note  that one of its salient features concerns a further decrease in the overall  budget of this Organization. Thus, more than ever before, Unesco faces the diffi-  culty of determining its priorities but with too limited a means at its disposal.  My government notes with pleasure, however, that efforts to co-ordinate this
9  Organization's programmes with those of other United Nations agencies such as  UNEP, IL0 and FAO have intensified, particularly in the fields of vocational,  technical and environmental education. We have no doubt that this will not only  niaximise benefits from these limited resources but will also greatly reduce the  isolation of education, making it more relevant to the needs of the modern  society.
2.8 Mr President, Botswana supports much of Major Programme II (Education  for all). Indeed, my government has placed special emphasis on the democratiz-  ation of Education. In this regard, it introduced free primary education in 1983  and will extend this to the secondary level at the beginning of 1988. To improve  the quality of education, it has designed a nine-year basic education programme  aimed at providing school-leavers with reasonably adequate skills so that they  may be of use to their own society.
2.9 At a higher level, my government has embarked on an ambitious programme  in science and technical education. The programme includes technical training at  secondary level, vo,cational training, university programmes in agriculture and  engineering sciences in particular, research and development of appropriate tech-  nology, to name a few. In addition it has established a body to co-ordinate these  efforts for the first time.
2.10 Botswana is also committed to co-operation in this area at a regional  level. Member States of the Southern African Co-ordination Conference, SADCC for  short, have decided to tackle in close co-ordination the mammoth task of develop-  ing a scientific base. This task is not made easier by the military and political  de-stabilization perpetrated by the Pretoria regime in the region, which force  our governments to devote most of their resources to the non-developmental area  of self-defence.
2.11 We welcome the general thrust in Major Programme VI which seeks to  encourage regional and wider international co-operation in yet other important  areas of natural, human and social sciences.
2.12 We have examined Major Programme XI (Culture and the future) with the  greatest interest and greatly appreciate Unesco's assistance to those of our  countries that are in the process of developing a national identity. For our  part, we have initiated measures in this line. During this year, an iniportant  national symposium on Botswana's culture took place in Gaborone. Its aim was,  among other things, to determine cultural trends in the country with a view to  according culture its proper place in development.
2.13 Finally, Mr President, my government wishes to express its satisfaction  with the role of Unesco in the field of mass communication. It is partly through  its assistance that many of our Third World countries are developing some infra-  structure in this area at both national and regional levels. We believe mass  communication to be crucial to development.
2.14 Allow me, Mr President, to end my remarks by reaffirming my country's  belief in the ideals of this Organization, and by assuring you that Botswana will  not spare any effort in working towards the realization of these ideals. I also  wish to extend my country's gratitude to the Director-General, Mr M'Bow, for the  contribution he has made through this Organization to making this world a better  place to live in, in so many ways and for so many people. We wish him the best in  his future endeavours. Thank you, Mr President.
(3) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of Botswana. I now give the floor to  H.E. Mr Tupua Tamasese Tupuola Efi, Deputy Prime Minister of Samoa and head of his  delegation.
4.1 Mr EFI (Samoa):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished heads of delegations, representatives of international and regional  organizations, representatives of non-governmental organizations, official  observers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to commence my intervention with  reference to the American philosopher-educator, Alfred North Whitehead. He said:  'In the conditions of modern life, the rule is absolute: the race which does not  value trained intelligence is doomed... Today we maintain ourselves; tomorrow  science will have moved over yet one more step and there will be no appeal from  the judgement which will be pronounced... on the uneducated...'. The Pacific
295    States are becoming increasingly aware that science and technology are what dis-  tinguish the South from the North. During the first session of the South Com-  mission, of which I have the honour to be a member, my dear friend Abdus Salam  passionately exclaimed: 'On science and technology depend the standards of living  of a nation. The widening gap in economics and the influence between the nations  of the South and North is essentially the science gap.'
4.2 Mr President, a century ago in Japan, at the time of the Meiji restor-  ation, the Emperor took five oaths as part of Japan's new constitution. In one,  he decreed that 'Knowledge will be sought and acquired from any source with all  means at our disposal for the greatness of Imperial Japan.' While some today  might not agree with the ends, few, I venture to say, would not marvel at the  power and determination reflected in the means of this goal. Indeed it betrays a  priority commitment to the advancement of knowledge as an imperative if the gap  is to be bridged. An awful irony has become all too painfully apparent following  the Chernobyl explosion, a phenomenon only possible in a high-technology country.  As some fought frantically to save those afflicted by nuclear radiation, others  thousands of miles away fought no less frantically to extract nourishment from  barren soil.
4.3 Julius Nyerere summed it up succinctly at the South Commission when he  called attention to the South's 'extreme economic and technical backwardness,  dependency rather than genuine interdependence with the economic North, power-  lessness in making their own vital and structural decisions, and an intolerable  levei of national poverty ...'
4.4 The South Commission is undertaking a critical self-analysis of the  South development experience and prospects - an essential part of which is the  assessment of the need to overcome the narrow monetarist development concept by  abandoning the obsession with growth and economic quantification in favour of a  concentration on health, education, access to relevant and useful employment and  a greater concern for culture.
4.5 I warmly subscribe to these goals, Mr President, and feel their  relevance to the work of Unesco is self-evident. But as a citizen of a small  Pacific State, I would be failing in my duty if I did not draw attention to the  fact that there are enormous differences within the South countries. It is of  these that 1 would like to speak briefly this morning.
4.6 Mine is a country of only 160,000 people. Tiny, you say? By Pacific  standards we are in fact quite big. And while we may appear insignificant to  some, our culture is 3,000 years old: we would recognize our ancestors today. I  wonder how many northern cultures can say the same. I mention this fact,  Mr President, not to disparage - far from it - but to point out that we have a  keen sense of who we are aiid where we come from.
4.7 Perhaps you will appreciate that we thus have a no less keen conviction  that we have both a right and obligation not only to participate but contribute  to the day-to-day running of our global village just as a Samoan Matai (chief)  would do in his own village. Sadly, putting this connection into practice is  proving exceptionally difficult for us. Because small and micro states account  for over a fifth of Unesco's membership, I think it appropriate to share my  perceptions of the causes. As a useful vehicle for my points, I would like to  refer to the problems we have experienced in carrying out some of the main tasks  of the current Medium-Term Plan.
4.8 The first, as you will recall, is built on a concept of 'globalization'  and calls for a study of world problems to create an awareness of a common des-  tiny. Mr President, to what extent is the term 'globalization' appropriate if,  for whatever reason, countries are materially incapable of participating in a  common destiny, if for example, poverty, isolation, ignorance, sickness, economic  dependence, and a manifest inability to defend their interests make them helpless  in front of others not thus afflicted? Our islands are kindly, if unrealisti-  cally, referred to as 'developing countries'. The social sector is certainly  developing thanks to the work of Unesco and other external bodies; but the pro-  duction sector of our islands is, if not retrogressive, stable. Building for  self-reliance, as we are exhorted to do, seems to me a dream.
4.9 Mr President, the reference to 'education for all' in the programmes  designed to address the second task is intended to promote the widest possible  participation of individuals and groups in their own societies in the world  community. But, I ask, education for what? Universal primary education is un-  questionably a major challenge for many developing countries but feasible for  others including many of the Pacific States. For both, however, once attained  what then? What is the place, the purpose and function of education, any edu-  cation, in a country where unemployment and under-employment are prominent  features in both the modern and traditional sectors?
4.10 Mr President, I would not wish this litany of apparent fault-finding to  be misconstrued. We Pacific islanders are known for our positive outlook on life,  not for a melancholy demeanour.
4.11 Mr President, I am happy to say that for all the Organization's apparent  difficulties in the rest of the world, the name of Unesco is highly regarded in  the Pacific States and particularly at the grassroots level. Some of this is due  to the untiring efforts of my old friend Gough Whitlam, who has carried Unesco's  flag high to the farthest corners of the region. Since the creation of the Unesco  Office of the Pacific States by the General Conference at its twenty-second  session in 1983, a mere quarter million dollars of total expenditure has been  increased to nearly $5 million today. It has, as it were, the representation of a  'Working man's organization': not a great deal of noise is made about it but,  quietly and with little fanfare, national examinations are written, a vocational  curriculum is produced, badly needed radio broadcasters are trained, not to men-  tion librarians, school inspectors, primary-school head teachers, writers of  chidlren's readers, and many more. In sum, in the same way that we do not miss  good health until we do not have it, it is easy to overlook these valuable  achievements or underestimate their importance.
4.12 Let me now turn to the challenges as they seem to me - challenges which  intrinsically call forth goals which, though high, are emphatically achievable.  Those most important to my country and, I venture to say, to other Pacific States  as well, include the following: finding alternatives to the traditional growth  model of development and developing new intervention strategies which better  reflect small states constraints; providing assistance in setting up a system - a  Trust Fund perhaps - for providing textbooks and other educatiorial reading  materials, both in English and the vernacular language, to countries which,  because of their small size, cannot justify print-runs large enough to bring down  the unit cost of books to affordable levels; designing education systems so that  they reflect the fact that leisure time is a fact of life in stable economies  and, when unstructured, are potentially socially destructive; recognizing the  necessary role of sports and culture in small states which have large numbers of  jobless out-of-school youth who, being confined in the limits of an island, often  suffer a sense of boredom and frustration; placing a greatly increased emphasis  on science not only from the perspective of what it can do for good but for ill  as well in which connection Western Samoa warmly supports the jointly-sponsored  Pacific islands draft resolution calling for the creation of a science adviser  since, without one, the 'S' in Unesco will continue, as in the past, to be con-  spicuously absent in our subregion; reinforcing the communications programme not  only through a continued involvement with PACBROAD - the joint IPDC-Friedrich-  Ebert-Stiftung radio broadcasters training project - but also in other areas no  less important to us, areas such as the formulation of a subregional communi-  cations policy, the development of a regional news exchange programme, and the  setting up of user-department training programmes to allow the electronics piedia  to play a developmental as well as informational role; acknowledging the singular  value of strong, prouà cultures as the foundation of the welfare of Pacific  island peoples in every facet of their lives - in which connection, while recog-  nizing that it cannot be begun this biennium, Western Samoa goes on record as  saying that it supports the preparation of a general history of the Pacific along  the lines of the remarkable African original prepared by Unesco; and, lastly,  acknowledging that the Pacific is the last great region to be largely untouched  by the valuable work of Unesco.
4.13 In the latter connection, it must be said that many sovereign countries  arid territories are, for various reasons, prevented from doing more than staring  through the shop window, so to speak, wistfully observing Unesco's work from a  distance. I would like to see increased efforts made by Unesco as well as by  these countries to which a number of territories are historically and consti-  tutionally linked in order to bring them into the circle of Pacific Unesco-  sponsored activities. France's Pacific territories in particular have both much  to give and to receive, and we would welcome their involvement in the work of the  Apia office. Similarly, we would encourage New Zealand to continue and reinforce  its welcome assistance to the Cook Islands, Niue and Toke-lau so that these tiny  Countries may likewise actively participate in the work of our organization.
4.14 In closing, Mr President, I must now say clearly what I only hinted at  the outset of my intervention, namely, my belief that the only way to match the  solution to the problem is to ensure that the solution is devised within the  context of the problem and not at 20,000 kilometres distance. I do not believe  that my little country situated in the distant Pacific and the General Conference  can form a close operational relationship for all the reasons I mentioned at the  commencement of my intervention. Accordingly, in my view, the only sensible way  to plan and manage Unesco's co-operative programme in the Pacific is for Unesco  to reinforce its presence in the region through a stronger Apia office and  through more interaction between Paris and Bangkok and the Pacific.
4.15 Much is said of 'decentralization'. I would like to suggest that the  word itself betrays the inherent weakness: programmes are planned in Paris, half  a world away from the problem, and then decentralized. The next Medium-Term Plan  should foresee a more truly participatory way of working, one that incorporates  the active process at the regional level.
4.16 With these remarks, Mr President, I conclude Western Samoa's statement.  I hope my remarks may fall on sympathetic ears and, in truth, believe they will  for I have learned much and made many friends in this my first General Confer-  ence. i1 wish you especially, Mr President, wisdom, courage and forbearance as you  carry out your heavy responsibility of guiding this complex process to what I do  not doubt will be a successful conclusion.
(5) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of Samoa.  CINQUIEME RAPPORT SUPPLEMENTAIRE DU PRESIDENT DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES  POUVOIRS  FIFTH SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  QUINTO INFORME COMPLEMENTARIO DEL PRESIDENTE DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION DE  PODERES  ITIITbIfi aOnOJIHMTEJIbHb1~ JIPEflCEaATEJIII KOMEITETA il0 IiPOBEPKE IIOJIHOM09Hfi  Jh;rYI &,I u" +J &J @U1 +al 2Nl  &m*3$ fi&~Rimh: &+b%%*
(6) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Distinguished delegates, I am going to interrupt the general policy debate  for a moment to allow the Chairman of the Credentials Committee to present another  additional report. I give the floor to Mr Luckhoo, Chairman of the Credentials  Committee.
7. Mr LUCKHOO (Guyana), Chairman of the Credentials Committee:  Thank you, Mr President. Since I presented my last report to the plenary  meeting at 3 p.m. on 23 October 1987, credentials in due form have been received  from Bangladesh and Yugoslavia which had previously submitted provisional creden-  tials. In accordance with the authorization given to me by the Credentials Com-  mittee, I propose that these credentials be accepted by the General Conference.  Thank you, Mr President.
(8.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  recommendations submitted by the Chairman of the Credentials Committee.
(8.2) There are no objections. They are therefore approved.  Thank you very much Mr Luckhoo. If there are no objections, we can accept the
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Let us return to the general policy debate. I give the floor to  H.E. Mr Narasimha Rao, Minister for Human Resource Development of India and head of  his country's delegation.
10.1 Mr KA0 (India) :  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General  and distinguished delegates, allow me first of all, on behalf of the Indian  delegation, to congratulate you, Mr President, on your election to your important  office. I also wish to assure you of the sincere support of my delegation in  carrying out your responsibilities with a view to facilitating the success of the  session. May I also take this opportunity to welcome to our midst a new Associate  Member of Unesco, Aruba. I should also like on this occasion to welcome Australia  and New Zealand to the Asia and Pacific Group; we are sure that their membership  will add to the richness and cultural diversity of our vast region.
10.2 Mr President, permit me to express OUT appreciation of the task accom-  plisfied by the Director-General and his colleagues in the Secretariat ir1 prepar-  ing an innovative Draft Programme and Budget for consideration by the General  Conference at a time of acute resource constraint. I would also like to place on  record our appreciation of the Executive Board for having presented well-  considered recommendations which should help the General Conference to take  appropriate decisions.
10.3 Mr President, I should like to express my government's and my own appre-  ciation to the Director-General, Mr M'Bow, for the contribution he has made over  the years to Unesco. His unwavering faith in the ideals of Unesco and his dedi-  cated promotion of the interests of developing countries have created a special  place for him in our minds. His characteristic dynamism has helped to give  practical shape to many of the aspirations shared by all of us.
10.4 Mr President, Unesco has recently celebrated its fortieth anniversary,  and we in India are celebrating the fortieth year of our independence. It is, for  all of us, a. time to look back at our achievements, be aware of our shortcomings  and build our future on the basis of our successes, without being unduly weighed  down by our past deficiencies. In the sectors in which Unesco is involved, India  has launched new and significant initiatives built on past experiences such as  the New Education Policy and a fresh cultural thrust which, while recognizing the  diversity of our society, recognizes its unity and integrity. Similarly, in  Unesco, a process of reform has been set in motion to make this Organization more  streamlined and efficient in order to nieet the challenges of the future. This  does not imply nor should it be expected by anyone to imply that the fundamental  principles on which this Organization and other bodies of the United Nations  system were founded, could be tampered with. These principles of multilateral  co-operation ase based on the preservation of the sovereign quality of all  States, on acceptance of the,pluralism of our societies and cultures and on uni-  versality, not restricted to universality of membership, but including coexist-  ence of different points of view.
10.5 The Heads of State of Non-Aligned Countries meeting last year in Harare  noted with concern that the principle of multilateralism was coming under  increasing pressure and that efforts were being made to bypass or even scuttle  it. We believe that our difficulties in Unesco are a part of that phenomenon  which has resulted in the withdrawal of some States from the Organization. With-  out apportioning blame at this juncture, we need to be clear about what we wish  to uphold and what, in the interests of efficiency and modernisation, we can  afford to reform. Unesco's activities in building the defences of peace in the  minds of men , in replacing asymmetrical relations among nations by co-operation  on the basis of equality, mutuality and harmony, and measures to reduce prejudice  and tension between nations, deserve the support of the entire international  comiunity, in their own right, as a potent force for peace.
10.6 We believe that Unesco is a major international forum for the exchange  of the best of the experience and achievements of mankind which are directly  relevant to the higher realms of human civilization. In the words of Prime  Minister Rajiv Gandhi, Unesco has to fulfil a very special role: 'It has to win  the battle of mankind, for that is the cradle of distrust and trust, hate and  goodwill. The creation of a collective human consciousness is a task which needs  the united efforts of societies, artists, philosophers and teachers'.
10.7 Mr President, the tasks before this General Conference relate both to  the short and the medium term. We will have to take considered decisions on the
299    programme and budget for the coming biennium, while recognizing that this will be  a link between the ,second and the third Medium-Term Plans. In our view, the  Medium-Term Plan should enunciate a general policy as well as describe the main  lines of emphasls to be followed by the Organization, keeping in view the  priority requirements of the Member States. In our discussions on this issue we  ought to bear in mind emerging trends and future challenges in all the fields of  Unesco's competence. However, we should be careful to ensure that our aspirations  and targets for the Organization do not exceed our resources. A great deal of  thought will have to be given as to how best Unesco can play a role.in the devel-  opment of education, science, culture and communication in its Member States, and  in this context we look forward to continued and intensive consultations among  Member States.
10.8 Document 24 C/5 that is before us and which contains proposed programmes  and the budget is part of a long-ranging process of reflection and action span-  ning a period of more that four decades. In the past, Unesco had given us seminal  ideas and presented us with valuable reports such as 'Learning to Be' and 'Many  Voices, One World'. There are many among us who would like to advance the thought  of mankind for a further march of human culture. A high level of idealism is  inherent in the very concept of Unesco, and we wish that while we debate over the  details of planning and budgeting, that spirit of idealism is not allowed to be  dimmed.
10.9 Mr first observation in connection with the programme and budget is that  Unesco's programmes must maintain an equilibrium between reflection and action.  We should attach great importance to the activities proposed under Major Pro-  gramme I relating to reflection on world problems and future-oriented studies  which are in consonance with the intellectual mission of the Organization. We  view with concern the tendency to give precedence to operational over intel-  lectual activities. Unesco's very concept requires that a balance must be main-  tained between the two. My second ,observation is that, while we have accepted  zero budget growth at the present moment, we can on no account accept this as a  perpetually valid principle, which would then mean stagnation and the eventual  withering away of the Organization. We sincerely hope that the financial situ-  ation will ease in the near future.
10.10 I shall now offer some 'specific comments. We are in general agreement  with the programmes proposed in document 24 'C/5, but there is a need to give  higher priority to some areas in different sectors from the point of view of the  developing countries. This would include co-operation in Unesco's sectors of  competence between and among developing countries. We, in India, have much to  offer and much to learn from our partners in Unesco, not only with the developed  industrialized countries but with fellow äeveloping countries. For this purpose,  we have submitted some draft amendments to the proposed programmes.
10.11 Mr President, my delegation appreciates the continued emphasis given to  Major Programme II (Education for all). It was in the fitness of things that  Unesco launched its regional programme in Asia and the Pacific for the universal-  ization of primary education and the eradication of illiteracy before the end of  the present century. It is particularly gratifying that the Director-General  personally launched the regional programme, called APPEAL, from India in February  this year. We do hope that APPEAL will provide the necessary stimulus to Member  States to encourage them to develop appropriate and viable strategies for the  elimination of illiteracy and for out-of-school education for children and young  people. The Government of India is resolved to wage a comprehensive and relent-  less struggle against illiteracy in a manner which will contribute to the removal  of poverty as well. Under the literacy programme, we propose to concentrate on  the age-group 15-35, which constitutes the main productive force in the country.
10.12 Mr President, many developing countries lack the infrastructure and  qualified staff required in the field of communication. To remedy this situation  to the extent possible, we have been offering to share our limited facilities for  training in the various fields of mass communication. Our two major insti-  tutions - the Film and Television Institute of India and the Indian Institute of  Mass Communication - have been regularly receiving trainees from the developing  countries and preparing them to meet their national needs.
10.13 We are convinced that the development of new forms of communication is  of fundameritai importance. It should not, however, lead to the domination by  certain modes of production and dissemination of knowledge, know-how and life-  styles of particular countries. We greatly value the voluntary contributions made  by some Member States to the special account of the International Programme for  the Development of Cornniunication. We have noted with satisfaction that the IPDC  has already financed 275 projects totalling an assistance of 13.2 million  dollars. This is, however, quite inadequate considering the need to accomplish..so  much more. We would, therefore, urge Member States to make a regular contribytion  to IPDC and urge those already making one to raise it. further.
10.14 Mr President, the new configuration of knowledge that is being estab-  lished and the new relations being formed between the natural and the social  sciences should help us better understand the complex reality that surrounds us  and should lead to desirable changes in modes of production and consumption, and  also in social relations. My delegation, therefore, supports the special emphasis  being given to the interaction between the natural sciences and the social and  human sciences in the context of Programme VI.3.
10.15 It is also gratifying to see that Unesco proposes to continue the pro-  motion of scientific research and international collaboration in the frontier  areas of natural sciences and social sciences. I should like to express my appre-  ciation of the activities proposed for the International Hydrological Programme  and for the International Oceanographic Commission, as well as the programme to  strengthen the indigenous scientific capabilities of the developing countries.  India has the privilege of hosting the Science and Technology Office for South  and Central Asia, which is making significant contributions for the benefit of  Member States. These efforts deserve to be stepped up. My delegation further  appreciates Unesco's effort to promote both social science teaching and research  in the Asia and Pacific region. The emphasis on the social sciences must con-  tinue, being an important ingredient in finding answers to the uncertainties  regarding our future.
10.16 Mr President, the declaration of the World Decade for Cultural Develop-  ment is extremely significant, as it reflects the realization of the role which  culture plays in man's life and progress into the future. The focus of Unesco on  culture and the future will be strengthened by the Plan of Action for the Decade  which has been grouped under Subprogramme XI.4.4. However, the funding would  require considerable augmentation, considering the global campaign envisaged in  the Plan of Action for the Decade. Our support continues for the activities  related to the Preservation and conservation of the world's cultural and natural  heritage - in fact, India will soon be hosting a regional workshop in the context  of the World Heritage Convention.
10.17 Advancement of the causes of peace and human rights through the pro-  cesses of education is, in our view, one of the fundamental aims of Unesco. My  delegation, therefore, fully supports Major Programmes XII and XII1 which spell  out various activities relating to the elimination of apartheid and all other  forms of prejudice, intolerance, racism and discrimination as also the activities  relating to peace, international Understanding, human rights and fundamental  freedoms .
10.18 Before I conclude, I should like to draw the attention of the dis-  tinguished delegates assembled here to the celebration of the centenary of the  birth of Jawaharlal Nehru, the first Prime Minister of independent India.
10.19 Jawaharlal Nehru was not only a distinguished thinker, author, vision-  ary, but also the most outstanding exponent of humanism at its best. Jawaharlal  Nehru described Unesco as the conscience of mankind, whereby he not only nnder-  lined Unesco's deeper ethical aim but also emphasized its main purpose of con-  tributing to peace and security by collaboration among the nations through edu-  cation, science and culture. Throughout hic life, Jawaharlal Nehru zealously  advocated the ideals of peace, co-operation and international understanding. In  one of his speeches he said 'Our task is preservation of peace and, indeed, of  our civilization. To this task, let us bend our energies and find fellowship and  strength in each other'. His pleas for coexistence and co-operation stemmed not  from any sense of expediency, but from the hard-won faith of a life-time. Since  Nehru was a true world citizen, and an ardent champion of peace, Unesco would be  paying a fitting tribute to his memory by undertaking programmes and activities  on a global scale to celebrate the centenary of his birth.
10.20 Mr President, the need of the moment is serenity and tranquillity, co-  operation and mutual understanding to enable us, as Member States, and the Organ-  ization as a whole, to move forward with confidence and maturity to uphold the  objectives of Unesco which is, as the Heads of State of Non-Aligned Countries  have stated: 'The predominant and most appropriate universal forum for inter-  national co-operation in the fields of education, science, culture and infor-  mation'. Thank you, Mr President.
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of India and invite H.E. Mrs Elsa Kelly,  Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of Argentina to Unesco and head of her delegation to  take the floor.
(12.1) Mrs KELLY (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,  distinguished ministers and delegates, allow me first of all to greet you, Mr Presi-  dent, congratulate you on your election and express my delegation's deep satisfaction  that you should be presiding over the meetings of this, the twenty-fourth session of  the General Conference of Unesco. I am confident that your presidency is welcomed by  all the countries of Latin America, as it comes at a time when your country, Guate-  ma€a, has been in the forefront of historic events: I am referring to the agreements  that have been signed to bring about a lasting peace in Central America. You are well  aware, Mr President, how much my country would like to see Latin America united and  moving towards a peace that guarantees the dignity of all the men and women of our  continent as well as their spiritual and material progress as human beings and as  peoples.
(12.2) I believe, Mr President, that Latin America has grounds for looking to the  future with hope. We joyfully welcomed the news that President Arias of Costa Rica had  been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. The whole world has recognized the determined  efforts of the countries of Central America to bring about a long-awaited peace in  this region.
(12.3) Mr President, we are all confident that your experience and breadth of vision  will enable you to reconcile the disagreements that will inevitably arise from the  different angles from which each of us defends what he or she believes to be the best  interests of Unesco. You, Mr President, are a man of consensus,'and we have every con-  fidence that your leadership will yield good results at a particularly important  juncture in the life of this Organization.
(12,4) Mr President, on the occasion of the celebration of the fortieth anniversary  of Unesco, I took the opportunity to speak about the future of the Organization. At  that time I said that there were several disturbing trends in the field of inter-  national multilateral co-operation. More recently, however, we have seen some  encouraging signs that the United Nations is once again taking the lead in the effort  to establish international peace and security, which is its specific task.
(12.5) As a member of the system, Unesco cannot isolate itself from these recent  events, which are now very encouraging. Notwithstanding these improvements, all Member  States must help to sustain every favourable development.
(12.6) It is true that our Organization has had to face a number of very serious  problems. However, its governing bodies have embarked on what is undoubtedly a major  process of reform. The Executive Board has focused its attention on these reforms with  efficiency and responsibility. We believe it important that this General Conference  should support the Board's proposals to modernize the role of our Organization at a  time when major changes are affecting the world, our various societies and the inter-  national community as a whole. The Special Committee of the Executive Board has com-  pleted a task of great value for which my delegation would like to extend its very  special thanks.
(12.7) As a Member State of Unesco, Argentina would like to point out that if the  reforms are to continue, they must be carried out in the strictest observance of the  Constitution. Our attachment to and defence of certain principles which we consider to  be fundamental are well known, Mr President. They are the basis of our foreign policy  in general, but they find a more specific application in the field of multilateral  relations. Our conception of Unesco is accordingly based on these principles, and I  should like to mention them explicitly.
(12.8) In the first place, our delegation believes that multilateral co-operation is  a vital instrument of international relations. As far as our Organization is con-  cerned, it implies a commitment on the part of its members to work in a spirit of
304    solidarity to achieve the aims and objectives of our Constitution by strengthening  co-operation in the fields of education, science, culture and communication. This co-  operation can work for the benefit of all Member States and humanity as a whole only  if it takes place among partners who help one another and strengthen their mutual  resolve as they pursue the common good. This can be achieved only by keeping  rigorously to a basis of strict equality. Consequently, my delegation rejects any  suggestion that there should be a link between the financial contributions of Member  States and their rights. We accordingly declare that decisions at Unesco and in the  United Nations system in general should be based on the principles of democracy and  equality in the right to vote.
(12.9) This, of course, implies that all Member States of the system must be pre-  pared to participate fully in the negotiation process while at the same time respect-  ing minority positions and points of view. While we believe that agreement by consen-  sus is a laudable system, my delegation would like to reiterate its position that this  should not obstruct the right of Member States to take decisions in a democratic way,  that is, by putting to the vote all matters that cannot be settled by consensus.
(12.10) We endorse and emphasize the principle of the sovereign equality of States,  irrespective of their size or their political, social, economic or cultural system. We  also strongly subscribe to the principle of pluralism, which entails acceptance of  diversity and cultural differences; consequently, we believe that the programmes and  activities of Unesco should be called forth by the needs, aspirations and socio-  cultural values of all peoples.
(12.11) The Argentine delegation also espouses the concept of universality, which is  indissolubly linked with the participation of all countries in a system of multi-  lateral co-operation on the basis of the strictest equality. This concept is associ-  ated not only with the participation of all countries in this Organization, but also  with the more important idea of the harmonious coexistence of all the cultures of our  pluralistic world.
(12.12) My delegation has given serious thought to the need for reforms, and to date  has constantly supported those implemented through the work of the Executive Board and  its Special Committee and the action taken by the Director-General in his sphere of  competence. We shall continue to encourage all the reforms that are needed to guaran-  tee Unesco's effectiveness. Nevertheless, I should like to be very clear about the  meaning and direction of the changes. We are not prepared to accept a reform process  that infringes the fundamental principles which I have just mentioned and which  constitute the only firm foundation of the United Nations system and Unesco. We shall  go along with such a process only to the extent that it tends to strengthen our Organ-  ization for the ends stipulated in its Constitution.
(12.13) Mr President, as I believe I said in one of my statements to the Board, I  think that the third Medium-Term Plan should help Member States to reflect on the  subject of what we wish Unesco to be. The participation of Member States is important  in this reflection because we must make sure that the new Plan acts as a framework in  which to arouse greater interest in our Organization on the part of the intellectual,  educational and cultural community as well as all who take part in the activities that  make up the specific fields of competence of Unesco.
(12.14) My delegation firmly believes that as an organization Unesco should seek to  establish a balance between serious intellectual reflection on finding solutions to  the main problems which afflict humanity as a whole and practical assistance to Member  States in its specific fields of competence. However, we do not want Unesco to be  transformed into another United Nations body with responsibility for distributing  resources among the developing countdes.
(12.15) Consequently, the Member States have a fundamental obligation to state their  ideas clearly regarding the future of Unesco when they discuss the various parts of  the third Medium-Term Plan, so that the Plan can become a vehicle for reforms that  will benefit the international community as a whole. The Plan affords a major oppor-  tunity for negotiation that we should not miss. I would stress, then, that we should  all view the third Medium-Term Plan as a common programme of action that balances the  interests of all regions and countries through a political agreement on the role of  Unesco in the future. I strongly believe that the re-establishment of the principle of  universality also depends on the quality of that document.
(12.16) This General Conference should also provide a fresh opportunity for Member  States to express their opinions once the draft Plan has been prepared. Provision  should likewise be made for fuller participation by the Executive Board in the various  stages of its preparation.
(12.17) Mr President, in a few days' time, on 7 November to be exact, a new Director-  General will be appointed. The Executive Board has decided to propose Mr Federico  Mayor. My delegation has approved that nomination. The decision was taken in the sober  conviction that this would be in the best interests of the Organization.
(12.18) The choice of Mr Mayor is appropriate first and foremost because of his back-  ground as a scientist and an educator. His experience at Unesco is very valuable and  provides an assurance that there will not be a break between the past and the future.  I believe that Mr Mayor's professional competence, together with his keen awareness of  issues dear to my country and to the Third World, afford us a pledge that Unesco will  advance in a climate of consensus and harmony among all regions of the world. His  nomination was decided upon in accordance with the democratic election procedure laid  down in the Constitution and, consequently, he is the candidate whom the Executive  Board has proposed to the General Conference and whom, I hope, the Conference will see  fit to approve.
(12.19) Mr President, I should now like to refer to the administration of Mr M'Bow,  whom I consider to be one of the most outstanding personalities in the history of our  Organization. He defended the values and interests of our countries with a degree of  conviction and passion that cannot easily be rivalled.
(12.20) I'would like to place on record and make a public acknowledgement of the  concern that he showed for Argentina at one of the saddest moments in his history. He  used his prestige and influence in the cause of human rights, interceding on behalf of  unjustly detained scientists and intellectuals in my country. Truly, my country, and  I, personally, cannot thank the Director-Genera1,enough. He was willing to listen to  me at any time and to help me in my work as permanent delegate.
(12.21) I want him to know that my government and I, myself, will always defend the  same values and principles that he defended with such ardour. Thank you, Mr President.
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of Argentina. I now give the floor to  H.E. Mr Franz Muheim, Ambassador, Director-General for International Organizations of  the Department of Foreign Affairs of Switzerland and head of his country's delegation.
14.1 M. MUHEIM (Suisse) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif,  Monsieur le Directeur général, je tiens tout d'abord à vous adresser, Monsieur  le Président, les félicitations de ma délégation pour votre élection 6 cette  importante fonction. Nous vous connaissons bien, puisque vous êtes aussi ambas-  sadeur du Guatemala en Suisse, et sommes donc particulièrement heureux de vous  voir occuper cette place.
14.2 Vous assumez votre charge 6 un moment ob l'Organisation se trouve 6 un  tournant critique. Car ce que l'on a pris l'habitude d'appeler la crise de  l'Unesco a un mérite rarement relevé, celui de mettre en évidence le caractère  irremplaçable de l'Organisation : en effet, si nous sommes à ce point attachés 6  améliorer son fonctionnement, à la reformer en profondeur, c'est que nous ne  doutons pas de la valeur et de la nécessité de la coopération entre tous les  Etats membres. Loin de résulter d'une cause unique, cette crise a, au contraire,  des origines multiples, qui plongent leurs racines dans la densité, la multitude  et la complexité des problèmes de la société contemporaine. Le choc et l'inter-  pénétration des cultures se produisent aujourd'hui avec une rapidité et une  ampleur qui n'ont guère de précédent dans l'histoire. Une personnalité comme  Cheik Hamidou Kane a remarquablement illustré la dimension humaine de ce phéno-  mène dans son livre "L'Aventure ambiguë". C'est un défi qui nous est adressé à  tous et 6 chacun d'entre nous, et que nous devons relever ensemble.
14.3 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, l'Unesco áöit aujourd'hui  s'assigner un double objectif : d'une part, retrouver l'unité et l'universalité,  d'autre part, réfléchir à l'avenir et à sa mission spécifique dans un monde  confronté 6 des mutations profondes. Il ne sert pas 6 grand-chose, dans cette  perspective, de s'attarder sur le passe. Sans ignorer les clivages, les diver-  gences, les tensions entre politiques, économies ou cultures, nous devons les  dépasser ou, mieux encore, les assumer pour en extraire tout le potentiel créa-  teur. Reconstituer l'unité de l'organisation, cela implique de réaffirmer la  vocation de l'Unesco, la force de ses idéaux, la volonté commune de les réaliser.
14.4 La Suisse, pour sa part, entend rechercher avec ceux qui le veulent la  voie d'une entente raisonnable, celle de la modération et du réalisme. Le choix  du plus haut fonctionnaire de l'organisation ne doit donc pas être un point de  rupture, ni devenir une épreuve de force politique, sans commune mesure avec lec
9  enjeux véritables de la coopération en matière scientifique, culturelle, éduca-  tive. N'est-il pas normal et salutaire, après deux mandats, de confier à un  homme nouveau la lourde tâche de gérer l'Organisation ? C'est 15 une des raisons  pour lesquelles nous souhaitons, avec d'autres, qu'un renouvellement intervienne  à la tête de notre Maison. Un examen rationnel et dépassionné de la situation de  l'Unesco nous a, en effet, convaincus de la nécessité de donner une impulsion  nouvelle à ses méthodes de travail et à son fonctionnement. Nous faisons ainsi  démocratiquement usage de nos droits d'Etat souverain. Mais nous n'en mesurons  pas moins l'apport et le dévouement de M. M'Bow à cette Organisation, je tiens à  le souligner expressément. Le choix qui nous est proposé par le Conseil exécutif  en la personne de M. Mayor est le résultat d'un processus qui s'est déroulé  conformément aux règles établies. Nous sommes de ceux qui estiment que l'Unesco  a un intérêt éminent à ce qu'il soit confirmé par la Conférence générale dans un  climat de confiance et de sérénité retrouvées.
14.5 Monsieur le Président, si les problèmes à résoudre sont urgents, ils  sont aussi universels. Leur solution exige l'apport de tous les Etats. Faute de  retrouver són Universalité, l'Organisation ne réalisera pas valablement et  durablement ses objectifs. Elle doit s'y atteler en priorite, comme beaucoup  l'ont relevé avant moi ici même.
14.6 I1 ne s'agit pas de renoncer pour autant aux principes qui sont à la  base de la coopération internationale, et notamment à celui de l'égalité des  Etats souverains. I1 s'agit au contraire de construire ensemble, tournés vers  l'avenir, une organisation moderne, capable d'affronter les défis du prochain  millénaire après avoir procédé honnêtement et sérieusement à l'examen des réus-  sites et des échecs du passé. I1 s'agit de maintenir l'équilibre entre une  coopération universelle, intergouvernementale, en matière intelïectuelie, et une  série d'activités pratiques, réalisées partout où elles sont nécessaires.  L'Unesco, nous en sommes bien d'accord, ne peut être ni un club de débats acadé-  miques ni seulement une agence de financement de projets et de renseignements  techniques : mais elle doit être le lieu de rencontre de toutes les cultures, de  toutes les pensées scientifiques et philosophiques, de tous les systèmes éduca-  tifs et culturels. Sa vocation est la communication universelle dans ces  domaines, comme le Directeur général l'a tres justement releve dans son rapport  oral.
14.7 Monsieur le Président, j'ai dit tout à l'heure qu'un de nos objectifs  doit être de réfléchir et de travailler dans une perspective d'avenir. Le  troisième Plan à moyen terme constitue à cet égard un instrument majeur. I1 est  indispensable par conséquent de réfléchir avec.le plus grand soin à la conception  même de ce document. Celui-ci devrait définir, dans les grandes lignes, une  vision cohérente des principaux problèmes que l'Unesco aura à traiter, indiquer  les objectifs à atteindre et les stratégies à mettre en oeuvre dans un petit  nombre de secteurs jugés prioritaires. A titre d'exemple, il me semble que la  concentration des efforts sur le droit à l'éducation, et particulièrement sur la  lutte contre l'analphabétisme sont par excellence des tâches propres de notre  Organisation. Nous entendons élargir cet aspect de notre action commune en  mettant cette fois l'accent sur l'éducation de base des adultes.
14.8 Mon Gouvernement porte également un grand intérêt au Bureau internatio-  na1 d'éducation, qui a son siège à Genève et qui est lie institutionnellement et  fonctionnellement depuis plusieurs années à l'Unesco. Nous sommes à cet égard  saisis d'un rapport du Directeur général qui jette les bases d'un renouvellement  des activités de ce Bureau et qui répond 6 nos préoccupations.
14.9 Monsieur le Président, nee à un moment particulier des relations inter-  nationales, l'Unesco doit aussi maîtriser sa propre évolution et réfléchir à la  vision qu'elle peut offrir aux générations futures. Tournée à la fois vers les  débats d'idées et vers les réalisations concrètes, elle joue un rôle irrempla-  çable de forum intellectuel et de lieu privilégié pour approfondir la dimension  immatérielle du développement. Elle doit préserver cette dualité tout en se  donnant les moyens d'attirer les esprits les plus prestigieux et les travailleurs  les plus dévoués et les plus compétents. Si elle doit continuer à se faire  l'écho des inquiétudes et des interrogations du monde, elle doit le faire dans  un véritable esprit de participation, en prise directe sur la réalité  contemporaine.
14.10 Toutes les décisions concernant l'avenir de l'Unesco doivent naturelle-  ment être prises dans le cadre institutionnel qui est le nôtre. Cependant, nous  pensons qu'il pourrait être utile de constituer une commission indépendante,  formée de personnalités universellement reconnues et estimées, représentatives  des grands courants culturels dans le monde. Cette commission aurait pour mandat  de faire la synthèse des besoins de l'homme de demain en matière d'éducation, de  science, de culture et de communication et de réfléchir au rôle dévolu à l'Unesco
307    pour satisfaire ces besoins. I1 existe des précédents dans d'autres domaines. Je  pense en particulier à la commission présidée par Mme Brundtland, premier  ministre de Norvège, qui a publié récemment un rapport fort pertinent sur les  problèmes de l'environnement. Pourquoi ne pas agir de même pour les problèmes  qui nous préoccupent ici ? Au moment où l'Unesco prend le tournant décisif dont  je parlais tout à l'heure, il nous apparaît en effet que le rapport d'une telle  commission pourrait inspirer et assister les Etats, les organisations non  gouvernementales, ce qui est particulièrement important, les commissions natio-  nales également et les autres institutions concernées ainsi que 1e.s organes de  l'Unesco, dans leur réflexion et dans leur prise de décision. Je dépose cette  suggestion dans le dossier du nouveau Directeur général.
14.11 Monsieur le Président, la Suisse a été, il y a 'plus d'un siècle, le  berceau de la coopération multilatérale moderne. Elle s'est toujours efforcée de  contribuer à son fonctionnement efficace, à l'Unesco comme ailleurs. Elle est  profondément attachée aux principes, aux valeurs et aux idéaux de l'Acte consti-  tutif. Sa propre histoire n'est-elle pas marquée par la diversité de ses  cultures, par des particularismes auxquels il serait parfois tentant mais combien  périlleux de renoncer, et par l'apprentissage constant d'équilibres délicats ?  Elle est de ce fait plus sensible que d'autres aux aléas qui ponctuent la vie de  l'Unesco. Mon pays sera toujours disponible pour faire entendre la voix de la  modération, qui n'exclut pas l'audace dans la poursuite d'un idéal juste et  utile 6 tous, pour offrir sa collaboration dans la recherche de mécanismes  adéquats, capables de promouvoir une meilleure entente dans les domaines propres  de l'Unesco, car notre Organisation, j'en suis profondément convaincu, a pour  vocation de jouer un rôle central dans l'édification d'un monde plus pacifique  et plus heureux. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
(15) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of Switzerland. I invite H.E. Mr Fidelis  Cabral de Almada, Minister of Education, Culture and Sport, Chairman of the National  Commission of Guinea-Bissau for Unesco and head of his country's delegation, to take  the floor.
16.1 M. CABRAL DE ALMADA (Guinée-Bissau) (discours prononcé en portugais ;  texte français fourni par la délégation) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence Générale, Monsieur le Président  du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général de l'Unesco, Mesdames et  Messieurs les délégués, permettez-moi de vous présenter, Monsieur le Président,  au nom de la délégation de la République de Guinée-Bissau et en mon nom propre,  nos plus chaleureuses félicitations pour votre brillante élection à la présidence  de la vingt-quatrième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco. Votre  longue et riche expérience dans les affaires d'intérêt universel, l'excellence  des résultats de vos précédents travaux et le sérieux par lequel vous vous  distinguez toujours dans vos prises de position, sont des gages de succès pour  cette Conference générale. Je souhaiterais vous dire, Monsieur le Président, qye la délégation que j'ai l'honneur de conduire durant les travaux de cette Confe-  rence générale vous apportera son appui total pour la réussite de nos travaux.
16.2 Monsieur le Président, qu'il me soit permis ici de rendre un hommage  solennel et mérité au Directeur général, à S. Exc. M, Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, qui,  avec un humanisme tout à fait remarquable, une perception profonde des causes du  mal dont souffrent nos sociétés, une maîtrise rare, une volonté inébranlable de  rechercher un dialogue épanouissant et constructif, a su, malgré des difficultés  de tous ordres, maintenir et augmenter encore les conquêtes de l'Unesco tout en  suivant les changements et l'évolution de la communauté internationale. Je  voudrais vous dire, mon frère et ami, Monsieur M'Bow, que le Gouvernement de la  République de Guinée-Bissau m'a chargé de vous transmettre le salut fraternel et  amical de ses dirigeants et de vous exprimer notre profonde reconnaissance et  notre grande admiration pour les efforts louables que vous avez accomplis pour  l'Unesco et pour les pays membres de cette Organisation, et particulièrement,  pour les pays en voie de développement. Vous êtes, Monsieur M'Bow, un homme  courageux et sage, un homme qui a une grande expérience en matière de relations  internationales. Grâce à votre talent personnel, vous avez su surmonter toutes  les difficultés et rendre plus efficace le rôle de l'Unesco entre les nations.
16.3 Monsieur le Président, je propose que notre auguste assemblée adopte  une résolution concernant les efforts louables que S. Exc. M. Amadou-Mahtar  M'Bow a su déployer durant tout son mandat pour l'épanouissement de l'Unesco.
16.4 Monsieur le Président, la conjoncture économique internationale et les  conflits armés qui font régner partout dans le monde la misère, l'anaphalbétisme,  l'ignorance, la famine, la malnutrition, la maladie et la peur, constituent des  sujets de réflexion de premier plan qui devraient nous préoccuper en ce moment.
16.5 Cependant, ce qui est encore plus absurde, c'est l'attitude négative de  certains Etats, qui s'estiment au-dessus de tout et de tous et qui ne respectent  aucune norme internationale, ce qui est contraire à la pensée des pères fonda-  teurs de l'Unesco, qui avaient pour objectif le respect de l'idéal démocratique  de dignité et d'égalité de la personne humaine sans aucune distinction de race,  de sexe, de religion, d'origine sociale ou d'idéologie. Aujourd'hui, Monsieur le  Président, force est de constater avec consternation et indignation la violation  flagrante de ce principe essentiel de la Charte de l'Unesco et nous savons tous  que l'Afrique du Sud et Israël constituent à cet égard des exemples qui comptent  parmi les plus préoccupants. Le régime inhumain et anachronique qu'est l'apar-  theid demeure la cause principale de l'instabilité et de la violence qui règnent  dans cette partie du continent africain, et tout indique que sa presence prolon-  gee dans la configuration politique de cette région ne permettra pas que s'ins-  taure une paix durable dans cette partie du monde. Les actes constants d'agres-  sion et de déstabilisation perpétrés par les forces sud-africaines contre les  Etats indépendants voisins, en particulier l'Angola et le Mozambique, sont des  facteurs qui contribuent à aggraver la situation générale en Afrique australe.  I1 est du devoir de tous les peuples et gouvernements de reconnaître la légiti-  mité de la lutte pour la démocratisation des organes institutionnels, que mène  le peuple sud-africain, sous la Conduite de l'ANC, afin que tous les Sud-Afri-  cains, quelle que soit la couleur de leur peau, puissent participer aux processus  de prise de décision dans une Afrique du Sud unie et sans bantoustanisation.  Nous réaffirmons ici notre appui inconditionnel 6 la SWAPO, seul représentant  légitime du peuple namibien qui lutte pour l'indépendance de son pays.
16.6 Au Moyen-Orient, la Guinée-Bissau appuie la juste lutte du peuple  palestinien sous la conduite de 1'OLP pour recouvrer son droit inaliénable à  l'autodétermination et à la création d'un Etat palestinien indépendant et souve-  rain, libre de toute domination étrangère. La situation au Liban est aussi un  sujet de très profonde préoccupation pour mon Gouvernement. La communauté inter-  nationale doit déployer des efforts afin que cesse cette guerre fratricide et que  le Liban, pays de culture universelle, retrouve la paix et son indépendance. La  guerre entre l'Iran et l'Irak et la situation générale dans le Golfe sont égale-  ment un sujet de vive préoccupation pour nous. Nous demandons 6 toutes les par-  ties concernées de rechercher les voies et moyens de mettre rapidement un terme
6 cette guerre meurtrière qui affecte gravement les économies de ces deux pays  frères et qui met en péril la sécurite internationale et la paix universelle.
16.7 La situation dramatique dans laquelle se trouve le peuple du Timor  oriental en raison de l'action des forces indonésiennes est contraire aux normes  élémentaires des droits de'l'homme et aux principes fondamentaux de la Charte  des Nations Unies. Nous lançons un appel à la communauté internationale afin  qu'elle déploie les efforts nécessaires auprès des autorités indonésiennes pour  mettre fin au génocide qui se perpétue contre le peuple Maubère.
16.8 Monsieur le Président, notre Organisation doit maintenir ses acquis et  continuer d'opérer les changements nécessaires, en oeuvrant au renforcement de  la coopération internationale dans les domaines de sa compétence. Nul ne peut  ignorer, Monsieur le Président, que l'Unesco est une organisation qui se consacre  à la science et à la culture universelles, c'est-à-dire à la pensée et à l'étude  approfondie des problèmes des peuples et qu'elle a pour objectif le maintien de  la paix par l'éducation, la science, la culture et la communication.
16.9 Permettez-moi de me féliciter de l'initiative que le Secrétariat a  prise auprès des Etats membres, des Membres associés et des organisations inter-  nationales, gouvernementales et non gouvernementales, en vue de recueillir leur  avis sur la diminution ou l'augmentation du niveau d'activité, sur la concentra-  tion des activités ainsi que sur les formes et les modalités d'action propres &  assurer l'exécution la plus efficace possible du programme. En ce qui concerne  le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1988-1989, je constate une nette amé-  lioration par rapport aux programmes précédents. Je dois dire qu'à mon avis, la  présentation de ce Projet de programme et de budget dans le document 24 C/5  reflète la situation actuelle de l'Unesco.
16.10 Lors de sa 125e session, le Conseil exécutif s'est prononcé, 6 propos  du Projet,.de programme et de budget pour 1988-1989 présenté par le Directeur  général, pour le principe de la concentration des programmes afin de préserver  l'unité du plan à moyen terme et pour l'établissement de priorités dans l'exécu-  tion des activités. Nous constatons que les efforts qui ont été consentis dans  le sens d'une concentration ont donné des résultats positifs, puisque le nombre  de sous-programmes, qui était de 187 pour l'exercice 1984-1985, a été réduit à
151 pour 1986-1987 et est actuellement de 143 dans le document 24 Cí5.
16.11 C'est avec satisfaction également que je constate qu'aucun effort n'a  été ménagé en ce qui concerne la gestion du personnel et le recrutement de ce  dernier, car on a eu le souci de respecter l'équilibre géographique.
16.12 Monsieur le Président, je me bornerai à quelques réflexions rapides sur  certaines parties des quatorze grands programmes figurant dans le document
24 c/58 en particulier les grands programmes I, II, 111, V, VIII, XI, XII, XII1  et XIV. Mon pays soutient ces programmes dans leur ensemble. J'insisterai plus  particulièrement sur le grand programme XI (La culture et l'avenir), parce que  mon gouvernement y attache une importance particulière.
16.13 Les grands programes III et XIV retiennent également notre attention  et nous souhaitons remercier très sincèrement le gouvernement de la République  fédérale d'Allemagne pour son aide très appréciée dans le cadre du Programme  international pour le développement de la communication. Nous remercions aussi  la République fédérative de Yougoslavie pour l'appui très apprécié également  qu'elle a apporté au développement des systèmes de communication en Guinée-  Bissau.
16.14 Dans notre pays, nous considérons que la femme est un agent essentiel  de notre développement. C'est la raison pour laquelle le grand programme XIV nous  intéresse au plus haut point, et je demande à toute la Conférence d'accorder à  notre pays une aide significative dans ce domaine.
16.15 Je me réjouis enfin du progrès notable qui a 6th accompli dans la partie  du programme qui sera mise en oeuvre hors Siège, grâce à la décentralisation et  à la création de Bureaux régionaux.
16.16 Monsieur le Président, avant de terminer mon intervention, je voudrais  réaffirmer ici notre position quant à la nécessité urgente d'établir un nouvel  ordre mondial de l'information, ainsi que notre attachement aux principes des  droits de l'homme et des droits des peuples. La liberté est unique et indivi-  sible, elle est nécessaire au bien-être de tous les peuples qui doivent la  rechercher et l'obtenir. Aucun individu ne peut et ne doit jouir de la liberté  si les autres n'en jouissent pas également.
16.17 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais remercier profondément tous les pays  qui ont fourni un appui à la Guinée-Bissau dans le cadre de notre Organisation  et je lance un appel à tous les pays qui ne l'ont pas encore fait mais qui  seraient en mesure de le faire afin qu'ils aident notre pays à promouvoir et  développer l'éducation, la science, la culture et la communication.
16.18 En collaboration avec tous les autres pays de langue portugaise, nous  tenons à vous remercier, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, et à SOU-  haiter un plein succès à nos travaux. Je vous remercie.
(17) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  H.E. Mr Patrice Dalencour, Minister of Education and head of the delegation of Haiti.  I thank the head of the delegation of Guinea-Bissau. I give the floor to
18.1 M. DALENCOUR (Haïti) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et  Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs les délé-  gués, permettez-moi de vous présenter, Monsieur le Président, mes plus chaleu-  reuses félicitations pour votre brillante élection à la présidence de la vingt-  quatrième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco. Votre belle carrière et  votre riche expérience au service de cette grande Organisation vous ont bien  préparé à cette tâche délicate et, déjà, l'habileté dont vous avez fait preuve  dans la direction de cette première semaine de nos travaux justifie la confiance  unanime que les délégations ont placée en vous.
18.2 Qu'il me soit également permis d'exprimer le respect et l'amitié de mon  pays pour le Directeur général, M. Amadou-Mahtar M'BOW, dont le passage à la  direction de cette noble Organisation restera gravé dans la mémoire universelle  c o m e  une période de renouveau, de rééquilibrage et de grandes réalisations.  Qu'il en soit sincèrement remercié.
18.3 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, notre COnfé-  rence générale se tient à un moment où'les spécificités et différences entre nos  peuples, nos régions, nos cultures menacent de se cristalliser en ce qu'il est
31 O    devenu commode de désigner comme des contradictions Nord-Nord, Sud-Sud, Nord-Sud,  Est-Ouest. Souvent fondées sur des intérêts et des préoccupations légitimes au  départ, ces contradictions ont parfois malheureusement accouché d'entreprises  dangereuses dans leurs exacerbations, comme la course aux armements et les con-  flits plus ou moins localisés.
18.4 L'Unesco et son devenir s'inscrivent dans l'histoire du monde et il  aurait été étonnant que ces clivages et ces oppositions épargnent notre Organi-  sation. Nous croyons même que le choc de ces différences peut engendrer un dyna-  misme plus fort que celui qui pourrait résulter d'un attachement trop prudent à  la recherche du consensus et de l'unanimité à tout propos. Le conflit peut être  bénéfique si la résolution engendre une entente supérieure. Mais sa traduction  en antagonismes irréductibles représente sans nul doute un écueil qu'il nous  faut éviter à tout prix.
18.5 Haïti, membre fondateur de l'Unesco, demeure plus' que jamais attachée a  l'idéal d'universalisme, de tolerance et de coopération entre les peuples, les  institutions et les hommes, ideal qui constitue la marque spécifique de cette  Organisation. Sans cet idéal, les peuples du monde risquent d'être "des îles qui  s'interpellent à travers des mers d'incompréhension", comme le disait si admira-  blement Clément Attlee. Heureusement cet idéal agit encore, plus vivant que  jamais. Nous en sommes convaincus, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs  les délégués. I1 a pu être occulté par les débats autour de la succession, il a  certes souffert des amputations qui ont menacé de mutiler notre Organisation,  mais il est bel et bien là, oh ! combien vivace et tenace, et il s'exprime dans  nos grands programmes d'action et dans les moyens et ressources mis à notre dis-  position par tous les peuples et leurs institutions majeures.
18.6 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, ces grands  programmes nous sont familiers. Nous les avons préparés, nous les appliquons par  notre participation 5 toutes les instances et a tous les rouages de l'Unesco.  Les passer tous en revue serait donc inutilement fastidieux. Souffrez néanmoins  que j'en cite quelques-uns particulièrement significatifs au regard de la  défense et de la promotion de cet ideal d'universalisme et de coopération. Le  grand programme I organise notre réflexion sur les problèmes mondiaux et débouche  sur des etudes prospectives. Le grand programme II propose des actions concrètes  pout atteindre à l'universalisation de l'éducation. Le grand programme III s'ef-  force de mettre la communication au service des hommes. Le grand programme VI se  penche sur les sciences et leur application au développement. Les autres, que  nous citerons au hasard et pour mémoire, car tous sont pertinents pour ce qui  nous concerne, sont de même teneur et de la même grande ambition : la culture et  l'avenir ; élimination des préjugés, de l'intolérance, du racisme et de l'apar-  theid ; paix, compréhension internationale, droits de l'homme et droits des  peuples ; la condition des femmes.
18.7 Comme on le voit, il ne s'agit point seulement de l'affirmation intem-  porelle et idéale du principe de l'universalisme, mais de son articulation con-  crete et agissante avec les grands problèmes contemporains et avec la recherche  de solutions bénéfiques pour tous.
18.8 Monsieur le Président, je l'ai rappelé tantôt, la République d'Haïti  est membre fondateur de l'Unesco. Ce fut pour nous mariage d'amour et de raison,  la meilleure fondation qui soit pour une association stable et durable. Mariage  d'amour, car le peuple haïtien, carrefour original entre l'Afrique et l'Europe,  entre le Nord et le Sud de l'Amérique, s'est reconnu dans les grands et nobles  idéaux de l'organisation. Les hasards et les nécessités de l'histoire nous ont  forge une identité culturelle d'une rare originalité et d'un grand potentiel  d'universalité. Nous sommes fiers d'être un grand petit pays capable de tenir  valablement sa partition dans le concert culturel des nations. Nous pouvons  donner et recevoir, sans jamais proposer à l'autre une irréductible altérité,  sans jamais nous trahir.
18.9 Mariage d'amour, mariage de raison aussi. Car nous avons besoin du con-  cours de l'Unesco et de la coopération internationale en général, aujourd'hui  comme au moment de la fondation il y a quarante ans. Certes, notre situation  générale s'est améliorée, comme en témoigne l'évolution d'indices spécifiques  tels que le revenu moyen per capita, l'éradication ou le recul de certaines  endémies, l'amélioration de la couverture scolaire. Mais nous n'avons pas rat-  trapé notre retard relatif et nous figurons aujourd'hui parmi les pays les moins  avancés de notre hémisphère. L'exiguïté de notre territoire et sa dégradation  écologique, la limitation de nos ressources naturelles laissent une voie majeure  de salut : l'amélioration de nos ressources humaines par l'extension à une  partie sans cesse grandissante de la population des bienfaits de l'éducation et  de la science. Or c'est la que l'apport de l'Unesco, organisme par excellence de  la coopération intellectuelle, prend tout son sens.
18.10 Mais nous savons, Monsjeur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les  délégués, que l'aide internationale ne saurait rien résoudre si elle n'est  reprise et amplifiée par la volonté et l'effort national, si elle ne s'articule  avec des programmes nationaux soucieux de dégager les vraies priorités et de les  mettre en oeuvre. Et puisque nous avons indiqué que l'amélioration de nos res-  sources humaines constituait notre priorité majeure, permettez-moi de présenter
6 votre assemblée les perspectives qui se dégagent actuellement en Haïti dans le  domaine de l'éducation.
18.11 Voici presque deux ans que la République d'Haïti vit une mutation dont  tous les patriotes haïtiens et les amis de notre peuple espèrent qu'elle débou-  chera sur la mise en place d'une société démocratique, juste et résolument enga-  gée sur la voie du progrès. Cet espoir est renforcé par la ferveur des aspira-  tions populaires, malgré l'apprentissage quelquefois turbulent du processus  démocratique par des citoyens trop longtemps privés de leurs droits fondamentaux.  Voilà qui explique, et justifie, que l'éducation, entendue dans son sens le plus  large, constitue une urgence cruciale, et que dès ses premières déclarations  l'actuel gouvernement l'ait proclamée priorité absolue, la reconnaissant néces-  saire pour tous, dirigeants et dirigés, élites et masses.
18.12 Dans un sens plus restreint et plus traditionnel, cette priorité S'est  traduite par une augmentation sans précédent dans l'histoire nationale, voire  mondiale, du budget du Ministère de l'éducation nationale. Pour l'exercice pré-  cédent, l'année académique 1986-1987, cette augmentation a atteint 60 %. Pour  cette année 1987-1988, elle sera encore de l'ordre de 16 %, malgré le marasme  actuel et un budget national en quasi-stagnation.
18.13 Un premier résultat de cet effort inouï a été l'augmentation des  salaires des enseignants, améliorant de 125 % les traitements les plus bas, et  cassant ainsi le cercle vicieux de la sous-rétribution entraînant la sous-  qualification. Un autre résultat, et non des moindres, a été l'augmentation de  la capacité d'accueil. Ainsi, cette année, une dizaine de lycées seront soit  rénovés, soit nouvellement inaugurés, souvent dans les zones les plus reculées  et les plus défavorisées.
18.14 Cependant l'effort n'est pas que financier. I1 est aussi qualitatif. Un  vaste programme d'évaluation et de perfectionnement des maîtres a été mis en  place. Pour la première fois depuis longtemps, un programme détaillé et commenté  pour l'enseignement de base va être promulgué. L'élaboration des manuels y affé-  rents a été fortement stimulée grâce aux initiatives prises dans ce domaine par  les éditeurs privés et les pedagogues. Une réforme de l'Université est en cours,  visant à la rendre plus apte à répondre aux besoins du développement national.  L'Office national chargé de l'alphabétisation a été restructuré et sa mission  mieux définie. La formation professionnelle et technique est en train de mieux  définir ses passerelles avec l'enseignement de base, de mieux identifier les  débouchés réels et se préoccupe de la formation des femmes et de leur meilleure  integration dans le monde du travail.
18.15 Ces efforts et ces résultats restent certes en deçà des besoins natio-  naux qui sont immenses. I1 nous faudra maintenir longtemps cette tension pour  atteindre nos objectifs d'une éducation meilleure et dispensée à toute la popu-  lation. Mais nos espoirs ne sont pas illusoires. Le taux de scolarisation brute  atteignait déjà 89,4 % en 1986, pour un taux net de 63,2 %. Aussi aurais-je ten-  dance 6 dire, en étant modérément optimiste, qu'il ne nous reste à résoudre que  le problème des sur-âgés et celui d'un meilleur équilibre de la carte scolaire  pour atteindre l'objectif du Projet majeur pour l'Amérique latine et les  Caraïbes : la scolarisation universelle en l'an 2000.
18.16 Telles sont, Monsieur le Président, les grandes lignes de force de  notre politique éducative. Mais priorité ne veut pas dire exclusivité, et nous  prenons particulièrement garde de ne pas négliger les autres aspects relevant de  la culture. En effet, dans cette nouvelle culture du développement que nous vou-  lons impulser, le développernent de la culture ne représente pas la recherche  éthérée d'un supplément d'âme. Elle constitue au contraire partie intégrante et  essentielle de nos efforts pour rattraper nos retards. .Nous sommes convaincus  que le développement passe par la prise de conscience de notre identité nationale  et sa consolidation. C'est pourquoi nous apportons tout notre appui à la Décennie  internationale du développement culturel.
18.17 Au plan local, la restauration de la Citadelle Laferrière, oeuvre tita-  nesque édifiée par le roi Christophe et destinée à la défense de notre indépen-  dance, constitue l'un des éléments les plus représentatifs de la valorisation de  notre patrimoine culturel. Cette forteresse représente l'un des monuments les  plus remarquables d'Amérique et a été reconnue digne d'être classée dans le  patrimoine mondial. C'est donc pour nous un véritable plaisir que de saisir  encore une fois l'occasion de remercier l'Unesco pour l'aide qu'elle continue à  nous apporter en la matière.
18.18 Et vous me permettrez de clore mon intervention par cet exemple haute-  ment significatif. La Citadelle représente l'un des plus beaux symboles de notre  identité nationale et de notre volonté d'indépendance. Elle constitue l'une des  réalisations les plus réussies de l'architecture et du génie militaire de  l'époque. Aujourd'hui, sa restauration allie l'effort national à la solidarité  mondiale et fait appel à la technologie la plus avancée. I1 s'agit donc là d'un  bel exemple d'insertion dans la modernité par la confrontation autocentrée des  valeurs de nos traditions culturelles avec les apports de la science et de la  technique pour déboucher sur une identité haïtienne bien enracinée et pleine de  dynamisme.
18.19 Et au nom de cette identité haïtienne, nous profitons de cette tribune  pour dénoncer, une fois de plus, comme le Président de la République d'Haïti a  eu à le faire en septembre dernier à l'Organisation des Nations Unies, le sys-  tème de l'apartheid. Nous lançons un appel solennel à la communauté internatio-  nale pour que cette perversion de l'idée même de l'homme soit combattue. Cette  plaie doit etre extirpée du talon de l'Afrique !
18.20 Monsieur le Président, recevez mes meilleurs voeux de succès pour les  travaux de cette vingt-quatrième session de la Conférence générale. Merci.
(19) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of Haiti. I invite H.E. Dr Skender  Gjinushi, Minister of Education of Albania and head of his country's delegation, to  take the floor.
20.1 M. GJINUSHI (Albanie) :  Monsieur le Président, qu'il me soit permis de vous exprimer toutes mes  félicitations à l'occasion de votre élection aux hautes fonctions de Président,  ainsi que tous mes souhaits de succès pour la présente session.
20.2 La délégation de la République populaire socialiste d'Albanie estime  que l'activité de ï'ünesco ces dernières années n'a pas cessé de s'intensifier,  et cela en dépit des pressions menaçantes exercées systématiquement par un Etat  en vue d'imposer à l'organisation d'autres conditions. En effet, tant sur le  plan international qu'au niveau régional, son activité a été plus fructueuse, en  particulier dans le domaine de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture.  L'Organisation existe et fonctionne depuis bientôt quarante et un ans et nous  pensons qu'elle a toutes les possibilités de progresser. En témoigne l'expérience  acquise depuis ia dernière session, et un mérite particulier revient à ce propos  à M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, ùirecteur général de notre Organisation.
20.3 Les questions qui sont discutées au cours de cette session, comme celles  concernant l'activité menée pendant ces deux dernières années par l'Organisation,  son Projet de programme pour les années 1988-1989, qui prévoit une problematique  riche et de nombreuses activités dans le domaine de l'éducation, de la culture  et de la science, ainsi que celles qui se rattachent à l'émancipation de la  femme, à la lutte contre le néocoïoniaïisme, le racisme, l'apartheid, etc. sont  toutes d'un intérêt particulier. Elles sont étroitement liées au progrès &Cono-  mique et social de chaque pays, mais elles ne peuvent pas être envisagées indé-  pendamment de la situation internationale actuelle qui est grave, compliquée et  lourde de tensions à cause de la politique d'hégémonie des deux SUperpUiSSanCeS.  Cette situation internationale ne manque pas d'entraver l'essor de l'éducation,  de la science et de la culture dans le monde.
20.4 Par ailleurs, par l'intense pression qu'il exerce sur les peuples et  les nations, l'impérialisme cherche à imposer son hégémonie dans le domaine des  sciences et à accréditer les philosophies cosmopolites dans le domaine de la  culture, en prenant pour cible les meilleures traditions historiques et cultu-  relles nationales.
20.5 Ce phénomène devient encore plus visible dans les conditions actuelles  de la crise économique du système capitaliste, de la politique colonialiste et  néocoìonialiste des grandes puissances et des relations économiques internatio-  nales injustes que celles-ci s'efforcent d'imposer à tout prix. i1 suffit de  rappeler qu'actuellement dans le monde, il y a plus de 889 millions d'analpha-  bètes, et cela non seulement dans les pays en développement, mais aussi dans les  pays développés, qui comptent des millions d'analphabètes ; cela s'explique  certes par la crise économique, mais aussi et surtout par la politique milita-  riste et les préparatifs de guerre, qui absorbent d'immenses sommes aux dépens  des fonds destinés à l'éducation, à la science et à la culture. .
20.6 Monsieur le Président, la révolution idéologique et culturelle, qui a  embrassé toute la vie de notre pays, a entraîné de profondes transformations  politiques et idéologiques, sociales et culturelles, éducatives et scienti-  fiques ; elle a ennobli l'univers spirituel des Albanais, l'a enrichi de motiva-  tions et de vertus élevées, l'a affranchi des mentalités et des coutumes rétro-  grades, de la religion et de l'ignorance. L'éducation, la culture et la science,  ces éléments vitaux du progrès d'une nation, s'épanouissent toujours plus en  Albanie.
20.7 Notre enseignement n'a cessé de raffermir son caractère national et  laïc, ses traits socialistes et sa nature démocratique. 11 est devenu le princi-  pal foyer de l'éducation communiste de la jeune génération, pour la rendre apte  a construire et à défendre avec dévouement le socialisme.
20.8 Le développement actuel de l'enseignement, dans notre pays, se caracté-  rise par les efforts déployés dans tous les secteurs de l'activité pédagogique  et la mise en place d'infrastructures appropriées pour élever encore le niveau  idéologique et scientifique à tous les échelons. C'est 16 un phénomène objectif  permanent, dicté non seulement par les développements internes et specifiques de  l'enseignement, mais aussi et surtout par les progrès économiques et sociaux,  scientifiques et techniques dans tous les aspects de la vie du pays en général.  A la base de ce processus se trouvent l'impératif de la modernisation scienti-  fique et pédagogique du contenu de notre enseignement, l'assimilation de la  science et de la technologie contemporaine, la volonté de doter les élèves et  les étudiants d'aptitudes pratiques adéquates, l'intégration totale de l'ensei-  gnement des sciences et de la production, la liaison solide de l'école avec la  vie, autant de questions traitées dans le programme V.2 du projet en cours de  discussion. L'enrichissement scientifique du contenu de notre enseignement par  la mise au point d'un appareil conceptuel moderne et la restructuration de ce  contenu dans le sens d'une plus grande concentration, sur la base des acquis  récents de la science, vont de pair avec l'utilisation de nouvelles méthodes  d'enseignement offrant un plus vaste espace à l'épanouissement des capacités  intellectuelles des élèves.
20.9 A propos du grand programme II, permettez-nous de souligner qu'en  Albanie, la quasi-totalité des besoins en matière de développement quantitatif  de l'enseignement, sont satisfaits de façon adéquate et en bonne voie de l'être  de façon definitive. L'analphabétisme, séquelle du retard et de l'ignorance, qui  est un des soucis majeurs de l'Unesco et qui, dans l'Albanie d'avant la Libéra-  tion, affectait 85 % de la population, a disparu une fois pour toutes depuis
34 ans. Les petits Albanais vont tous, sans exception, et de façon obligatoire,  à l'école, et ce, jusqu'à l'âge de 14 ans. Conformément aux tâches fixées par le  IXe Congres du Parti du travail albanais, en 1990 les établissements d'enseigne-  ment secondaire seront fréquentés par 71,3 % des élèves qui terminent leurs  études primaires, sans compter ceux qui les fréquenteront le soir ou par corres-  pondance. Dans les villes l'enseignement secondaire s'est pratiquement généra-  lisé, tandis qu'à l'échelon national, cet objectif sera atteint sous peu. Par  ailleurs, conformément à nos pians économiques, l'enseignement supérieur en  Albanie connaît, lui aussi, un essor vigoureux. Ces dernières années, notre  système d'enseignement s'est enrichi d'un enseignement postuniversitaire. L'en-  seignement entièrement subventionné par l'Etat, l'école totalement gratuite pour  tous sans perception d'aucune sorte de droit, ni aucune restriction de caractère  social, école identique pour tous, garçons et filles, l'enseignement de la langue  maternelle des minorités nationales dans les écoles, sont autant de manifesta-  tions de l'attention qu'attache notre Etat au développement de l'enseignement  populaire. Notre système d'enseignement est 6 même de satisfaire les besoins de  cadres dans tous les domaines et à tous les niveaux. Alors qu'au lendemain de la  Libération, l'Albanie ne comptait que 380 cadres supérieurs, essentiellement  formés à l'étranger, actuellement notre université et autres écoles supérieures  forment chaque année environ 3.000 cadres dans 60 disciplines.
20.10 En Albanie, la majorité de la population vit dans les campagnes ; aussi  les problèmes de l'enseignement et de la science dans les zones rurales sont-ils  d'une importance particulière. La scolarisation de la jeun,esse paysanne consti-  tue une des principales voies à suivre pour réduire les ecarts entre les cain-  pagnes et les villes et développer les zones rurales relativement en retard afin  qu'elles rattrappent les zones avancées. c'est pourquoi toute notre politique  educative actuelle repose sur l'accélération du rythme d'admission des enfants  originaires des campagnes dans l'enseignement secondaire.
20.11 Afin de permettre à la jeunesse paysanne de recevoir une bonne formation  dans les différentes branches de la science, des modifications ont été apportées,  surtout ces dernières années, aux rapports entre l'enseignement agricole et  l'enseignement général. Elles tendent à concrétiser une idée importante : celle  de la création d'une intelligentsia des campagnes, de son épanouissement et de
31 4    sa croissance numérique, par des apports non seulement d'agronomes et de zoo-  techniciens, mais aussi de médecins, d'enseignants, d'économistes, d'ingénieurs,  etc.
20.12 La lutte pour l'émancipation complete des femmes dans notre pays est  partie intégrante de notre politique culturelle. Nous avons toujours considéré  que le niveau de l'émancipation féminine est un indice du niveau d'émancipation  de la société tout entière. Le travail et les efforts déployés dans le domaine  de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture ne peuvent être couronnés de  succès sans la participation des larges masses populaires OU les femmes occupent  une place importante. I1 ne peut y avoir de progrès économique et social si l'on  n'élimine pas le retard social des femmes, si on ne les amène pas 6 participer  activement, sur les mêmes positions et avec les mêmes droits que les hommes, à  la solution des grands problèmes qui préoccupent le pays. Les Albanaises  d'aujourd'hui ont un haut niveau d'émancipation ; elles prennent une part active
6 la gestion des affaires du pays, dans l'enseignement, la science, la culture  et l'art ; elles sont devenues une grande force productrice. Elles représentent  plus de 35 % des cadres supérieurs i dans l'enseignement et la santé publique  elles représentent respectivement 42 et 43,4 % des effectifs ; actuellement,  plus de la moitié des étudiants sont des jeunes filles. Hostile A toute pratique  discriminatoire, notre législation a créé des conditions de nature à faciliter  la tâche aux femmes.
20.13 Monsieur le Président, nous référant au grand programme IX, nous tenons  à souligner que notre pays attache une grande importance à la science et à la  technologie. Nous sommes convaincus que tout pays, si petit qu'il soit, ressent  la nécessite impérieuse de veiller à son développement scientifique indépendant  et est tout à fait capable de le promouvoir. La science n'est le monopole ni de  quelques individus, ni de certains Etats puissants. "Seuls les chauvins, les  obscurantistes - soulignait Enver Hoxha - peuvent penser que les petits peuples  n'ont pas de place au radieux soleil de la science, qu'ils sont destinés à vivre  à l'ombre des 'Grands' ... que le savoir et l'intellect ne peuvent s'épanouir  que dans 'la tête et la nature d'une élite choisie' de certains grands peuples  et Etats puissants".
20.14 Si, sur le plan international, nous nous opposons A l'hégémonisme  scientifique, au niveau national nous sommes contre l'élitisme. Notre révolution  technique et scientifique a fondu en un tout la pensée scientifique des cadres  et des spécialistes ainsi que la lutte et les efforts des masses travailleuses.  Ces principes ont été d'une importance fondamentale pour le développement scien-  tifique indépendant de notre pays. En Albanie, nous avons mis sur pied et conso-  lidé tout un réseau d'institutions d'étude et de recherche qui couvrent toutes  les branches de l'économie, de la technique et de la culture ; nos propres  forces scientifiques se suffisent à elles-mêmes pour résoudre tous les problèmes  posés par l'édification du pays. Sans négliger la recherche fondamentale, nous  attachons une attention très soutenue à la connaissance, à l'assimilation et 6  l'application de nombreuses découvertes scientifiques faites dans le monde, enmy  voyant non pas un simple processus de transplantation mécanique, mais une veri-  table création fondée sur notre propre base matérielle et technique, sur nos  propres matières premières.
20.15 La science, qui se distingue par son universalité, est une des plus  précieuses créations de l'humanité. Elle a pour mission naturelle d'oeuvrer à  l'élévation du bien-être matériel et d'ennoblir la vie spirituelle des hommes.  C'est pour cette raison que l'Unesco doit dénoncer sévèrement l'accaparement de  la science par la machine de guerre des monopoles en vue de l'asservissement des  peuples et combattre cette tendance réactionnaire foncièrement incompatible avec  la véritable destination du progrès scientifique.
20.16 La promotion de la culture dans le monde a toujours été un des objectifs  de l'Unesco, ce qui se reflète assez bien dans le grand programme XI. En Albanie  ce problème a été une des conditions les plus vitales de la construction du  socialisme. Le camarade Ramiz Alia, le guide de notre peuple, a indiqué que  "nous avons considéré notre culture non seulement comme une source de savoir et  de connaissance, mais encore comme un important moyen en vue de la réalisation  de nos transformations socialistes, du développernent économique et social de  notre pays". La culture que nous répandons parmi les masses, le vigoureux essor  de notre littérature et de nos arts, de notre musique, de notre cinéma et de nos  autres moyens d'information concourent à la consolidation de la liberté conquise,  au développement indépendant de notre société dans tous les domaines et à l'en-  richissement de l'univers spirituel. Notre culture ennoblit l'homme et l'aide &  devenir un citoyen qui aime son peuple et son pays, respectant et honorant  également les autres peuples, appréciant hautement tout ce qui est progressiste,  humanitaire et démocratique dans le monde.
20.17 Notre pays ne conçoit pas le développement indépendant de son enseigne-  ment, de sa science et de sa culture en dehors des courants de la science et de  la culture progressistes mondiales. Nous considérons l'assimilation profonde et  sérieuse du grand patrimoine des connaissances humaines comme l'une des prémisses  fondamentales de notre propre progrès. C'est là également un des objectifs de  l'Unesco, ce dont témoigne le programme en cours de discussion. Nous avons tou-  jours pris intérêt áux échanges scientifiques et culturels avec les autres pays,  certes sur la base de l'avantage mutuel, sans discrimination ni préjugé. Ces  échanges, que nous pratiquons et multiplions sans cesse avec nombre d'Etats,  servent la connaissance réciproque des valeurs créées par tous les pays et le  renforcement de la bonne entente et de l'amitié entre les peuples. Mais nous  nous opposons au déferlement de la pseudo-culture qui préconise la violence et  le pillage, l'usage de la drogue et la dépravation, le nihilisme et le dépouil-  lement de l'homme de toute morale et vertu.
20.18 L'expérience nous a beaucoup appris dans ce sens. Si notre petit peuple  a pu résister aux tourmentes de l'histoire, il l'a fait non seulement grâce à  son esprit combatif et indomptable, mais aussi grâce à la force de sa culture.  Veillant à sa culture, il a su préserver son identité en tant que peuple et  nation. C'est pourquoi nous condamnons les tentatives faites aujourd'hui pour  priver la culture des peuples de son caractère national et lui donner une  couleur cosmopolite. Ce n'est pas l'extinction mais l'épanouissement des nations  et de leur propre culture qui est et doit être le trait distinctif de notre  époque. Seules les nations enrichissent de leurs valeurs authentiques le trésor  culturel commun de l'humanité.
20.19 Monsieur le Président, la délégation de ia République populaire socia-  liste d'Albanie ne ménagera pas ses efforts pour apporter sa modeste contribution  au bon déroulement des travaux de la présente session. Je vous remercie.
(21) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) :  I thank the head of the delegation of Albania and invite Mr Nahas Angula,  Secretary of Education and Culture of the South West Africa People's Organization  (SWAPO), to take the floor.
22.1 Mr ANGULA (South West Africa People's Organization):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, allow me at the outset to extend my congratulations to you,  Mr President, on the assumption of the high office of President of the twenty-  fourth session of the General Conference of Unesco. Under your guidance, we are  confident that the deliberations of this Conference will be crowned with success.
22.2 May I further hasten to expiress SWAPO's appreciation to H.E. Mr M'Bow,  Director-General of Unesco, for extending to us his kind invitation to come and  observe the deliberations of this august Conference. I would like to assure him  that our presence here affords us the opportunity to learn from the wide experi-  ences in the field of education, culture and science of the variety of countries  represented here. We highly appreciate this opportunity.
22.3 Wr President, distinguished delegates, I am here representing a people  under military occupation and racist domination. I am here a symbol of a bitter  struggle against the evils of apartheid domination and racist subjugation. In  this regard, my delegation was highly touched by the remarks of the Director-  General in his speech with regard to his commitment to and belief in freedom,  justice and the right of peoples to qelf-determination and independence. We feel  greatly encouraged by your sentimentsi, Sir.
22.4 Namibia is a symbol of man's inhumanity to man. To the people of  Namibia, the illegal military occupation is akin to hell on earth. Massive  militarization means unfettered brutalities. The illegal occupation translates  into political repression. The activities of the multinational companies impose  ruthless economic exploitation of both human and natural resources. Two thirds of  Namibia is currently under martial law. This means unfettered harassment, kidnap-  pings, mysterious disappearances, destruction of property and above all death.  Genocide is inàeed taking place in that international territory. The situation  was recently aptly described by Reverend Petrus Shipena of the Evangelical  Lutheran Church. He was quoted by the local Church paper as having told a local  congregation that 'Our country has been turned into a waste land of unmarked  graves'. This is the tragedy of Namibia. This situation illustrates the state of  the human condition in the world today. How could the plight of the people of
9  Namibia be ignored? How could the world watch in silence and indsfference the  unfolding tragedy in Namibia? Namibia stands as a monument testifying to the  moral decay and uncaring callousness which is characteristic of our times. Those  who are in collusion with the racist regime in holding at ransom Namibia's  independence stand judged in front of freedom-loving mankind. Those who connive  with the illegal racist regime to turn Namibia into a nuclear garbage dumping  ground stand condemned. Those who stand by indifferent to the suffering of  Namibian people will be severely judged by posterity.
22.5 Mr President, I have highlighted the situation of Namibia in order to  make it clear that we could not talk about education in Namibia in the normal  sense of the word. What we have in Namibia is a massive political fraud aimed at  indoctrinating the oppressed people to accept the conditions of subservience and  inferiority. What is provided as education is racist in its philosophy,  irrelevant in its content and inappropriate in its goals. It has been rejected by  the majority of our people. It is against this background that we in the Liber-  ation Movement regard the education of our people as priority number one in the  context of the struggle. We believe education, that is, a meaningful and appro-  priate education, would release the creative and productive potential of our  people. To this end, we have spared no efforts in our endeavours to provide edu-  cational opportunities to our displaced people. This is a very important element  in the process of liberation. The effect of apartheid and manipulative Bantu  education must be offset by systematic, democratic and man-centred educational  efforts. To this end, SWAPO has evolved a system of education encompassing the  learning interest of children and adults. Institutions for pre-school, primary  and secondary education, vocation and technical training have been established.  Curricula are being designed and learning materials developed. Every effort is  being made to train educational personnel including teachers, administrators,  supervisors and inspectors, as well as textbook developers, etc.
22.6 Unesco has played a significant role in these endeavours. Specifically,  Unesco has helped us to develop a network of collaboration with regional exper-  tise, especially in the area of curriculum design and elaboration. We are grate-  ful to Unesco for their contribution.
22.7 Though we have made significant progress in our efforts to provide mean-  ingful education to our people in preparation of a new education system for a  free Namibia, we still have to intensify our efforts in this regard. In thanking  Unesco and other agencies as well as governments represented here for their  support and assistance, we would like to urge them to intensify their assistance  in order to enable us to improve the quality of our educational services. Our aim  is to provide education to all our people.
22.8 Mr Chairman, we regret that Mr M'Bow is likely to retire from this  Organization very soon. We are dismayed by the cut-throat tactics of certain  countries who have stooped so low to an undemocratic campaign of vilification and  blackmail. These are the same countries who are holding Namibia's independence at  ransom. They are the same countries who are holding Namibia hostage to. their  cynical global hegemonic dreams. We know them, their goal is to roll back the  wind of freedom. They will riot succeed. Unesco, under Mr MIBOW'S stewardship, has  greatly enhanced the interest of the oppressed, the downtrodden, the poor and the  illiterates. We in southern Africa remember the holding here of very successful  conferences, one on Namibia in 1983, and the other on South Africa in 1986. Your  contribution will be recorded in the annals of the anti-colonial, anti-apartheid  and anti-racist struggle. We wish you well.
22.9 Last but not least, we appeal to Unesco to return to the spirit of its  founding fathers - a spirit standing for the enhancement of what is best in man,  his art, science, knowledge and his sympathetic ethos. At the end of the day, it  is mutual understanding, co-operation and collaboration which will save mankind  from itself. I thank you.
(23) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Secretary of Education and Culture of SWAPO. i give the floor to  H.E. Mr N. Kiula, Member of Parliament, Vice-Minister of Education and head of the  delegation of the United Republic of Tanzania.
24.1 Mr KIULA (United Republic of Tanzania):  Mr President of the General Conference of Unesco, Mr Director-General,  Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies  and gentlemen, two years ago the esteemed Government of Bulgaria was host to the
31 7    General Conference at its twenty-third session. The warm hospitality and the  encouraging working atmosphere in Bulgaria resulted in a successful General Con-  ference session whose imprint became the motivating factor for the activities of  the Organization during the biennium now ending. Mr President, as we are carrying  out important preparations for the next biennium, the last of the second Medium-  Term Plan, we are looking forward to similar motivation as has already been  evidenced by the vigour with which our work has begun at this session.
24.2 Mr President, on my own behalf and on that of my delegation, allow me to  join my colleagues in congratulating you on having been unanimously elected to  preside over this important gathering. Under your skilful guidance I know that  our work will come to a fruitful end, an end we expect will guide our work in  future activities of the Organization.
24.3 Mr President, the efforts of the Director-General and members of the  Secretariat need to be highly commended, especially since this year the Draft  Programme and Budget was prepared early and has been well documented while at the  same time it takes account of recommendations made at the previous General Con-  ference session and by the Executive Board on a number of pertinent issues,  including structural programme adjustments. Such efforts are a clear indication  of the seriousness with which the Secretariat is prepared to advance the work of  the Organization. Indeed, there is hope that as more experience is gained in the  activities of Unesco, more general improvement in its functioning ought to take  place. Let me, therefore, on behalf of the Government of the United Republic of  Tanzania and on behalf of my delegation, thank most sincerely the Director-  General, Mr Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, for the very judicious work we have witnessed in  the past and the preparations for the present twenty-fourth General Conference  session. Mr M'Bow has been a revolutionary, he is still a revolutionary, and I  know he will continue to be one. Throughout his service, he has sought justice  and respect for mankind. He has sought responsibilities. His guiding principle  has been the Constitution which created Unesco. And surely history will judge  him. Whoever thinks that Unesco should disregard racial discrimination, ignore  human suffering and oppression, ignore media misinformation, is not working in  the interest of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organiz-  ation. He will be working for an organization unknown to the United Nations.  Honest Member States of Unesco will not accept this. Whoever leads Unesco should  bear this in mind.
24.4 Ladies arid gentlemen,the programmes of Unesco are a true reflection of a  plurality of ideas whose culminating point remains the fulfilment of the Organ-  ization's ideals as manifested in the activities distributed in the programme  sectors of the Organization. The fact that the general trend of the programme  remains close to the second Medium-Term Plan makes it possible for future  activities to be planned on the basis of the work done. Such a healthy base  deserves our recognition and our appreciation for the efforts of the Director-  General in maintaining close links between the Medium-Term Plan and the biennial  programnies.
24.5 Following up programme activities in all sectors reveals that there is  consistent effort throughout the different divisions to promote co-operation  through the networks, projects and research activities at subregional, regional  and international levels. We consider such measures to be useful and commendable,  and that they may become support activities for Member States who wish to extend  and improve not only their service but their links with the rest of the inter-  national conununity. For instance, we have noticed the high priority given to  education in support not only of efforts aimed at making education available to  all, but also of efforts aimed at promoting equality of access to information,  scientific and technical knowledge.
24.6 Mr President, the development of a people is only possible if the people  themselves know their weakness and forge ahead with ease in the process of bring-  ing about change through technologically supported actions for improved living.  The basis for such endeavours can only emanate from the challenges and disci-  plines of integrated activities such as those undertaken by Unesco. It is for  this reason that the United Republic of Tanzania believes in the efforts  evidenced through the programmes of Unesco. We have, inter alia, noted that most  of the activities, if faithfully implemented, will bring about the needed aware-  ness, especially in Third World countries, and specifically in Africa which is  yet to go through the agricultural revolution. The battery for a leap forward is  therefore the education programmes which the Draft Programme ana Budget has  elaborated systematically and constructively. This glowing light from the edu-  cation sector, Mr President, must be maintained in order to support Member States  from the developing world in achieving the necessary instruments for self-  advancement and sound living conditions derived from the rigorous efforts of man  who is aware of his needs and has knowledge of the solutions. Indeed, this role  of Unesco is in keeping with its noble mission.
24.7 We also note that dissemination programmes are vital in young Member  States whose voices are either little heard or never heard at all. Such nations  need to develop their communication capacities and means through various estab-  lishment processes and training in skills which can meet the demands for infor-  mation exchange. It is encouraging that priority is given in document 24 C/5 to  Strengthening activities in this area, especially for least developed countries.  My delegation commends this principle and hails the strengthening of activities  in communication.
24.8 Mr President, the programmes in the sciences also reflect the adhererice  to the second Medium-Term Plan that is evident throughout document 24 C/5. Devel-  opment of capabilities to use knowledge and the development of such knowledge  itself are priorities whose needs will remain valid for a long time to come. Most  developing countries whose weak technological base means that they will continue  to depend on the support of the international community for their consolidation  will benefit from the planned activities. Unesco's mandate provides room for such  exchanges and meaningful borrowing of ideas and technical skills which can be  advanced to the maximum.
24.9 It is important to mention here that interest in the efforts of the  Organization must remain universal and honest in the Member States being served  by the Organization. To have among its members a majority whose logic for exist-  ence depends on scientific inventions developed and exported from the very rich  to the very poor with little effort to change that kind of status quo is tanta-  mount to accepting the theory of oppression in Unesco. The Organization must  therefore become the vanguard of all efforts designed to bring about meaningful  change so that the very poor nations are helped to recognize and improve their  short-comings, especially those directly contributing to the gross under-  utilization of science and technology for development, a factor we all know  jeopardizes development and promotes under-production.
24.10 Mr President, my delegation has hopes that the science programmes will  yield more results in all fields that are meant to encourage the development of  the natural sciences, the social and human sciences and the engineering sciences  which are seen as strong bases for Member States' development. It is the expec-  tation of my delegation that the experience that will be derived from the very  important science programmes will not only strengthen the will of Member States  whose hopes for intellectual exchange at regional and interregional level are  optimistic and indeed justified in order to advance least developed Member  States. The programmes are also expected to provide research innovations that can  assist in building up closer links between institutions throughout the inter-  national community and therefore increase opportunities for the development of  national capacities in developing nations within the framework of Unesco's pro-  gramme activities. The social, the human and the natural sciences all need  research skills and knowledge to build up a repertoire of ouch institutions that  can provide training to further the necessary skills. Indeed, Major Programme I  has the necessary opening which extends to all programmes, including the  sciences, in such endeavours. The continued efforts in these programmes deserve  our recognition and support.
24.11 Mr President, delegations will recall that Tanzania was host to  CASTAFRICA II in Arusha in July this year. The Conference adopted by consensus  the Kilimanjaro Declaration and fifteen recommendations. It is the hope of my  delegation and of my government in particular that Unesco will follow them up  closely to see that the Declaration is honoured and the recommendations  implemented.
24.12 Mr President, the world today, more than ever before, needs to uphold  those elements which have held peoples together and given them identities and  prospects for interrelations. Both the non-physical and the physical heritage of  Member States need the protection which Unesco has provided on a number of  occasions.
24.13 A firm restatement of support for these activities from my delegation is  recorded here and, indeed, the proposals made in the context of the World Decade  for Cultural Development are highly supported.
24.14 Young nations whose efforts in placing their cultural riches at the  disposal of future generations lack both the technical facilities and the necess-  ary resources. The efforts of the Organization to develop these are welcome, and  my delegation would like to pay special tribute, through the Director-General, to  the World Heritage Committee for its significant work with respect to what my  country has been able to achieve in this field.
24.15 Mr President, in the struggle for social existence, mankind has sought  after both destruction and construction. Unesco's role is that of fostering peace
31 9    among nations, so that what our predecessors saw in the World Wars does not occur  again. This noble mission of the Organization is highly recognized. It is there-  fore important and useful to undertake activities in Major Programes XII and  XII1 so that the abysmal human rights record of States like South Africa and its  allies is clearly and correctly understood and the findings made known to all of  us. The contradictions that exist in the apartheid Pretoria regime and her com-  patriots can only be brought.to light if activities contained in these programmes  are carried out by the Organization.
24.16 Mr President, displaced communities lack the rights of stabilized  nations. Theirs is a plight of unrest and violence whose end can only come about  if concerted efforts are directed towards peace. My delegation, therefore; fully  supports the efforts of the Organization to advance the cause of peace and human  rights.
24.17 Mr President, the plight of women the world over is another factor we  all know and are .concerned about. Women's hard work has not been rewarded for a  number of reasons, some of which are connected with lack of opportunities in edu-  catiori and lack of access to the scientific and technological training, which is  in turn used against them. It is therefore within the means of the,Organization  to make efforts to bring about changes in this field, and Major Programme XIV  offers reasonable opportunities which need to be continued, even in the next  Medium-Term Plan.
24.18 Mr President, allow me to make a few remarks on the implementation of  the Plans. One very important area of consideration is that of the methodology  used in achieving set targets. The networks, decentralization and structures away  from Headquarters are only a means to an end. These should be carefully planhed  and adequately funâed so that their activities are carried out with efficiency in  order to fulfil the noble tasks ahead of them. It is therefore the hope of my  delegation that the Director-General will be given the means he is asking for in  order to carry out the tasks he has set out to fulfil in the coming biennium.
24.19 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the universality of the Organization  must remain the living motto of our operations. I thank you, Mr President.
(25) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of the United Republic of Tanzania for his  statement and give the floor to Mrs Michele Lombardo, Permanent Representative of the  World Federation of Trade Unions.
26.1 Mme LOMBARDO (Fédération syndicale mondiale) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et  Messieurs, au nom de la Fédération syndicale mondiale, je veux exprimer ma  reconnaissance et mes profonds remerciements à M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, Directeur  général de l'Unesco, pour avoir accordé toute leur place aux organisations non  gouvernementales dans la coopération fructueuse qu'il a su stimuler tout au long  de ces années, dans le but de contribuer à réaliser l'Unesco des peuples.
26.2 La Fédération syndicale mondiale, qui entretient des relations avec  l'Unesco depuis sa fondation, apprécie hautement la vocation intellectuelle et  morale de l'organisation des Nations Unies pour l'éducation, la science et la  culture et les nobles buts qu'elle poursuit, en particulier la participation des  peuples à la culture, la démocratisation de l'éducation, l'élimination de  l'analphabétisme, la lutte contre l'apartheid.
26.3 Nous attachons une grande importance au dialogue qui S'est instauré au  sein de l'Unesco entre l'Alliance coopérative internationale et les trois cen-  trales syndicales internationales - CISL, CMT, FSM par la pratique de consulta-  tions sur la base du programme de l'Unesco, en vue de développer et concrétiser  la réalisation d'objectifs communs, et nous déplorons qu'il n'y ait pas eu de  consultation collective depuis 1981.
26.4 La Fédération syndicale mondiale, en tant qu'organisation non gouverne-  mentale de catégorie A entretenant des relations de consultation et d'association  avec l'Unesco depuis de nombreuses années, maintient une coopération fructueuse,  bilatérale et permanente avec divers secteurs d'activité de l'Unesco. Pour  autant, nous devons aussi déplorer le fait qu'au cours de l'exercice biennal
1986-1987, la FSM n'ait pu mener à bien, faute d'argent, aucun projet en coopé-  ration avec l'Unesco, dans le cadre du programme ordinaire.
26.5 La Fédération syndicale mondiale considère que la paix et le désarmement  pourraient avoir une portée historique par leurs répercussions sur les rapports  internationaux, en favorisant l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique mondial  basé sur une coopération axée sur la croissance réelle, l'emploi et l'efficacité  sociale, à l'opposé de l'écrasement des ressources humaines et de l'explosion  des fortunes.
26.6 Notre époque a donné naissance à des transformations profondes dans le  monde du travail, aux grandes agglomérations ouvrières, à la modification du  mode de vie par l'obtention de conquêtes sociales forgées dans l'action, à l'af-  firmation de l'identité de nations historiquement constituées. Dans le même  temps, des peuples sont affamés, un retour en arrière et une offensive sans pré-  cédent s'opèrent dans nombre de pays par des tentatives de déstructuration des  droits de l'homme, concernant la déréglementation sociale, la mise en pièces de  garanties collectives, la remise en cause des acquis sociaux, la destruction de  la protection sociale, des conditions de travail épuisantes, l'effondrement de  régions par la désindustrialisation et la dévitalisation de la production, où  ceux qui ont un emploi et ne font qu'exercer leur droit sont considérés c o m e   des nantis. A l'opposé d'une stratégie de déclin s'impose une restructuration  sur la base de la transparence, de la confrontation des idées et de solutions  viables, prenant appui sur les besoins, les aspirations, les motivations et  l'intervention des gens en tant qu'acteurs de la vie des sociétés.
26.7 Les changements s'avèrent difficiles et complexes. I1 s'agit d'appré-  hender les aspects contradictoires de la conjoncture internationale, à partir  d'intérêts différents mais convergents, d'expériences vivantes et démultipliées,  pour mettre en oeuvre des solutions diversifiées, adaptées, efficaces. I1 ne  s'agit pas d'opposer les peuples les uns aux autres mais d'établir des solida-  rités fondées sur l'amélioration de la vie de chaque peuple, de donner plus à  ceux qui ont moins, d'empêcher l'asphyxie des pays en voie de développement qui  freine leur croissance et limite les débouchés des pays industrialisés, de  s'opposer à la destruction du potentiel productif de pays menacés de basculer  dans le sous-développement.
26.8 Nous soutenons les activités du programme de l'Unesco concernant l'&du-  cation à la paix, l'amélioration de la communication et l'accès à l'information,  le respect des droits de l'homme et des droits des peuples. Nous appuyons les  activités du programme d'éducation en liaison avec l'emploi, car le système édu-  catif doit s'ouvrir sur les activités industrielles et la mise 6 jour des  connaissances. Nous apprécions en particulier les activités de programme concer-  nant les femmes, qui seront nombreuses sur le marché de l'emploi dans les années  à venir, les jeunes qui entrent dans la vie active en suivant des stages, véri-  tables antichambres du chômage' et de l'exclusion sociale et enfin, les travail-  leurs migrants confrontes dans la tourmente aux inégalités sociales et aux dis-  criminations raciales.
26.9 Mesdames et Messieurs, l'extrême gravité des situations 6 venir va ali-  menter les motifs de mécontentement et de résistance et laisse prévoir une  amplification des luttes sociales grâce à une prise de conscience des problèmes  et des enjeux. La Fédération syndicale mondiale, organisation de classe et de  masse, se prononce pour des propositions cohérentes et solidaires, encourageant  la production, l'emploi et le progrès social, refusant le gâchis et la spécula-  tion, pour sauvegarder le savoir-faire considerable qui s'est constitué au cours  de l'histoire. Merci de votre attention.
(27) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Permanent Representative of the World Federation of Trade Unions  for her statement and invite the last speaker on the list for this morning,  H.E. Mr Woodley, Minister of Education and Culture and head of the delegation of the  Netherlands Antilles, to take the floor.
28.1 Mr WOODLEY (Netherlands Antilles) :  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I join the other  delegates in congratulating you on your appointment, Mr President, and wish you  strength and wisdom in this most honourable and responsible task. I also wish to  express my delegation's deep appreciation to the Government and people of the  Republic of France for the generous arid friendly reception given to us. In the
321    same vein, we would like to pay tribute to the President of the twenty-third  session of the General Conference and the Chairman of the Executive Board, for  the competent manner in which they have handled the work during the current  biennium.
28.2 Mr President , while .recently an outward-bound tendency has manifested  itself within our Unesco conununity, , we are particularly pleased with the fact  that it is our Caribbean partner in the Kingdom of the Netherlands, Aruba, that  by becoming Associate Member of Unesco symbolically initiates a turn of events.  We cire confident that Aruba's participation will contribute to the focusing of  our discussion on the essential and practical issues.
28.3 Mr President, in spite of many rumblings in the past years, the Nether-  lands Antilles have kept their conviction that Unesco is a major instrument with-  in the international community towards multilateral co-operation. Any effort to  guarantee the continuity of its existence and to better its functionirig in the  service of mankind, has our full support.
28.4 Mr President, if ignorance is the source of differences and all too  often jeopardizes our existence and the peace which every nation of this world  fervently desires, our concerted effort to bring schooling to every human being  and to eradicate illiteracy must gain momentum, to attain the goals this Organiz-  ation has set for the year 2000. The proclamation of an International Literacy  Year will serve to emphasize the importance of education and enlightenment of our  peoples.
28.5 Mr President, the Netherlands Antilles now have a better programme to  aid our functional illiterates and have introduced the mother tongue of the  islands of Bonaire and Curacao - Paiamento - as a subject in the primary schools  of these two islands, and English as the language of instruction in either the  first two years or six years of elementary school in St. Maarten, Saba and St.  Eustatius. We are thankful for thé assistance Unesco has given us in this  respect, as well as in reviewing and improving our educational system.
28.6 Mr President, our efforts to give our mother tongues the proper place  within our educational system must not lead to the misconception that we thereby  ignore the importance of the languages of wider communication. The people of our  islands prove the contrary by the fact that the greater part speaks at least two  languages, most of the time three or even four languages, namely the vernacular,  English, Dutch and Spanish. We are therefore proud to be the co-ordinating  country of the UN-ECLAC regional project on the removal of language barriers in  the Caribbean. Among its achievements, we can mention that already a number of  English-speaking Caribbean countries have included Spanish for the first tinte as  a subject-matter at different levels of their educational system, while others  have stepped up their efforts to improve curricula and the teaching materials  used. Workshops regularly take place within the context of this project in the  various countries of the Caribbean region with the aim of broadening and upgrad-  ing local capacity to deal with language policy and development and curriculum  development for foreign languages. In this way the Netherlands Antilles actively  takes part in the efforts of the Caribbean region to reduce and in the long run  eliminate the effects of a history of political and cultural fragmentation of the  peoples of the Caribbean, which stands in the way of greater regional Caribbean  co-operation. Unesco in the past biennium has substantially supported this UN-  ECLAC-CDCC-project, aïid we urge the Secretaridt to continue its valuable logisti-  cal and financial support through the intermediary of the Unesco-Kingston Office.
28.7 Mr President, within the scope of the Unesco/IOC Comprehensive Plan for  a Major Assistance Programme to Enhance the Marine Science Capabilities of Devel-  oping Countries, adopted by the twelfth session of the IOC Assembly (Resol-  ution IOC-XII.8). and the Subregional Project for Assistance to Small Caribbean  Island States, national marine activities have been developed for the Netherlands  Antilles and are being presented in a National Marine Programme. The purpose of  the National Marine Programme is to arrive at a systematic assessment of the  various marine programmes in the Netherlands Antilles. This assessment should not  be limited to scientific programmes only, but should include all projects that  depend on the sea as a natural resource. The assessment should also go beyoiid  already existing programmes and projects, bringing into perspective potential  berierits from the ocean that we may not yet have the capability to study and  develop.
28.8. Nevertheless, attention must first be given to the existing programmes,  by adequately providing concise, pertinent information on- their contents, the  human resources available, the financial means and the technical facilities. In  this way, interested organizations and individuals, whether scientists or plan-  ners of various disciplines, will be given the opportunity to assess these pro-  grammes and evaluate the possibilities they offer. The formal documentation of
9  the existing programmes and capabilities may already be the first step towards  enhancement of our marine science capabilities. As the scope of activities  relating to the sea is rather extensive, eventually some limitations will have to  be made.
28.9 Mr Presicient, our communication facilities are such that we can be proud  of them; and our possibilities in the field of science and technology are evi-  dent. But the lack of enough manpower may hamper our progress. In other pro-  grammes, but especially in the latter field, your continued attention to the  Caribbean should be conducive to a lessening of the gap existing in this area and  to a strengthening of the horizontal links with the Caribbean.
28.10 Mr President, I now want to focus OR a number of specific budgetary  items. The Caribbean Member States made recommendations in their response to the  Director-General's questionnaire on document 24 C/5 to the effect that the break-  down of resources allocated to the individual units at Headquarters and to the  Field Offices appearing at the top of each subprogramme should include reference  to the Kingston Office where applicable. My delegation considers it a retrogfade  step that in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1988-1989, the table which  appeared at the head of each subprogramme indicating how funds were allocated as  between Unesco Headquarters and the various Field Offices is suppressed com-  pletely. The programme and budget document makes it virtually impossible for  Caribbean Member States to monitor the quantum of funding actually allocated to  Caribbean activities. We strongly recommend the reintroduction of the table of  allocation, showing what funds are allocated to the Caribbean Office.
28.11 Mr President, an examination of paragraph 15508 (English version page
550) of the Draft Programme and Budget shows the distribution of Participation  Programme funds between the various major programmes. Major Programme XI (Culture  and the future) , is allocated by far the largest amount with US $2,636,400. The  next largest allocation is Co-operation with National Commissions, with an amount  of US $1,050,200. Major Programme II (Education for all), covering such important  areas as adult education, pre-school education, special education, education and  the world of work, and so on, is allocated only US $980,600. Major Programme IV  (The formulation and application of education policies) , which covers the areas  of curriculum development, teacher training, drug abuse education, etc., is  allocated only US $810,600. Major Programme V (Education, training and society)  is budgeted for not more than US $436,800. While Major Programme VI (The sciences  and their application to development) is allocated only US $818,600. Mr Presi-  dent, my delegation would welcome the reallocation of funds under the Partici-  pation Programme, reducing the amount allocated for culture and increasing the  allocation for science and education especially by an equivalent amount.
28.12 Furthermore, we think that the Member States of Unesco would acquire a  better insight if the Secretariat would conduct an analysis, by type of activity  and quantum of funding requested, of the request submitted by all countries under  the last three budgetary periods. Such an analysis would accurately reflect the  real priorities of countries and would serve as an accurate guide for relative  allocations, if not in the 1988-1989 biennium then certainly in the 1990-1991  biennium.
28.13 Mr President, one last remark concerning the formalities of the  programnie and budget: my delegation regrets the disappearance of the table at the  head of each subprogramme. We would like to propose its reintroduction in the  final version of document 24 C/5, indicating how and where funds are  decentralized.
28.14 Mr President, I would also like emphatically to draw the attention of  the General Conference to an area of great concern In our country and region.  Drug abuse is alarmingly destroying the lives of our youth in the Caribbean.  Nevertheless, the only allocation for this activity in the draft progranme and  budget is US $51,000. In our view, it is imperative to give drug abuse educatiori  a much more important place, with corresponding allocations in the draft pro-  gramme and budget.
28.15 In concluding my intervention, permit me, Mr Presideiit, to observe that,  although this plenary meeting is indicated as a general debate, it need not  evolve into a debate on generalities. In our view, this Conference would gain in  substance and effectiveness if these were replaced by clear and concise state-  ments directly related to the matters tabled. We tried to do our part in helping  YOU in your highly appreciated efforts in keeping the plenary meeting to the  point. Thank you, Mr President.
(29.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of the Netherlands Antilles.
(29.2) I should like to express my appreciation to the distinguished delegates for  the fact that they have abided by the time-limit established for statements, all of  these having been between 10 and 1.9 minutes long. Thanks to your co-operation we have  reached the end of the meeting much earlier than expected.
(29.3) Before the meeting rises, I should like to wish all the delegates a restful  week-end, and I hope that you will gather strength to resume work on Monday. The meet-  ing is now closed.  La séance est levée à 13 h.15  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.15