Vingt-neuvième séance plénière
13 novembre 1987, à 10 h 20  Président : M. PUTZEYS ALVAREZ (Guatemala)  Twenty-ninth plenary meeting
883    HOMMAGE A LA MEMOIRE DE M. SEYNI KOUNTCHE, PRESIDENT DU NIGER  TRIBUTE TO THE MEMORY OF MR SEYNI KOUNTCHE, PRESIDENT OF NIGER  HOMENAJE A LA MEMORIA DEL SR. SEYNI KOUNTCHE, PRESIDENTE DEL NIGER  AAHb YBAXEHMII llAMIITki IIPE3MAEHTA Hi1TEPA ï-HA CERHM KYHTZIE
(1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from ehe Spanish) :  Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the twenty-ninth plenary meeting open.
(1.2) Before going on to the items on today's agenda, I have to announce with deep  regret that H.E. Mr Seyni Kountché, President of Niger, died in Paris on 10 November
(1.3) I give the floor to Mr Pierre Foulani, delegate of Niger.
2.1 M. FOULANI (Niger) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence  générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et Messieurs les,  délégués, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, au nom du colonel Ali Seibou, chef  d'état-major général des Forces armées nationales, et chef de 1'Etat par intérim,  au nom du vaillant peuple sahélien du Niger et au nom de la délégation nigérienne  à la vingt-quatrième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco, je tiens à  témoigner notre plus profonde reconnaissance à tous ceux qui nous ont exprimé  leurs condoléances en rendant un hommage à la mémoire de notre Président, le  général de division Seyni Kountché, président du Conseil militaire suprême, chef  de 1'Etat du Niger, décédé 6 Paris le mardi 10 novembre 1987 à 15 h.15.
2.2 Je voudrais également remercier tout spécialement, du fond du coeur, le  représentant du pays hôte - la France - pour les vives et sincères condoléances  qu'il nous a présentées, mais aussi et à travers lui, le Président de la Répu-  blique française et tout le. peuple français, pour la constante sollicitude dont  notre chef d'Etat a 6th l'objet en France ; ainsi, l'avion du Président de la  République française est venu le chercher à Niamey pour le ramener à Paris le  plus vite possible afin de tenter l'opération médicale de la dernière chance.  Excellences, Mesdames et essieurs, c o m e  vous pouvez l'imaginer aisé- 2.3  ment, c'est avec une émotion infin e que j'accueille toutes les paroles aimables  et pleines de compassion adressées 6 la mémoire de notre Président.
2.4 Né à Fandou, au Niger, en 1931, le général de division Seyni Kountché a  acquis, au lcours des treize années et demie de pouvoir au Niger, une solide  réputation de patriotisme, d'intégrité, d'honnêteté et de probité. Sa simplicité  et son austérité, alliées à son sens aigu du devoir, lui ont permis d'accomplir  loyalement et avec abnégation sa mission à la tete de 1'Etat du Niger, grâce à  une gestion saine et rigoureuse des affaires de 1'Etat.
2.5 Homme de terrain, comme il l'a prouvé en toutes circonstances, le séné-  ral Seyni Kountché était également un fervent adepte du pragmatisme et de l'ef-  ficacité : c'est ainsi qu'il a réussi à mobiliser toute la population nigérienne  pour la réalisation de nombreux objectifs scolaires : construction à titre béné-  vole de près de 7.000 classes ; construction à Niamey de l'université nationale,  dotée d'équipements modernes, institution d'un service civique national en faveur  de l'enseignement, etc.
2.6 Musulman convaincu, pratiquant mais tolérant, et adepte de la solidarité  afro-arabe, il a su, grâce à son énergie, 6 sa tenacité et au concours de  l'Organisation de la Conférence islamique et de certains pays arabes, mener a  bien la construction au Niger de l'Université islamique de Say destinée à pro-  mouvoir le rayonnement de la culture islamique.
2.7 Le général Seyni Kountché a également consacré toute son énergie aux  actions de développement dans les domaines sociaux, économiques et notamment  agricoles : c'est ainsi qu'il a réussi 6 faire en sorte que le Niger parvienne à  T
29  l'autosuffisance alimentaire, chose unique et rare au Sahel. D'ailleurs, le  prochain plan quinquennal 1988-1992, qu'il a fait élaborer, avec minutie et  parcimonie, consacrera près de 40 % des ressources globales à l'agriculture.
2.8 Après avoir mis en place une société de développement fondée sur la  justice sociale et créé un Conseil national de développement qui est la préfigu-  ration de la vie constitutionnelle à venit, il a réussi à faire élaborer une  Charte nationale définissant les principales orientations nationales futures et  adoptée par référendum le 14 juin 1987. L'adoption de cette Charte nationale  devait conduire le Niger, précisément 6 partir de ce mois de novembre 1987, à la  rédaction d'une Constitution nouvelle et ramener notre pays à une vie constitu-  tionnelle civile.
2.9 Mais sa longue et pénible maladie n'a pas permis au Président d'achever  son oeuvre. Le general Seyni Kountché a été un homme d'Etat courageux, toujours  au service de la communauté internationale et très profondément attache aux  nobles idéaux d'humanisme, de justice et de paix. Sa disparition constitue une  grande perte pour la communauté nationale, africaine et internationale. Je vous  remercie.
(3) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank Mr Foulani for his address. On behalf of all delegates, I should like  to offer you our condolences on this great loss to your country. In tribute to the  memory of President Seyni Kountché, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to observe one  minute's silence.  (La Conference observe une minute de silence à la mémoire de M. Seyni  Kountché, Président du Niger)  RECOMMANDATION DU BUREAU CONCERNANT LA CEREMONIE D INSTALLATION DU DIRECTHUR  GENERAL  RECOMMENDATION BY THE GENERAL COMMITTEE CONCERNING THE CEREMONY OF INVESTITURE OF  THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL  RECOMENDACION DE LA MESA RELATIVA A LA CEREMONIA DE INVESTIDURA DEL DIRECTOR  GENERAL  PEKOMEHRAUWX IIPE3WAWYMA OTHOCHTEJIbHO UEPEMOHWM  BCTYIIJiEHMII B JJOJiXHOCTb TEHEPAJibHOTO AHPEKTOPA  ('u1 *dl +  k &iÈ F6 H 23. It& =f Si%% w 5t &&-ìX &+ +i +;
(4.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I shall now inform you about a recommendation adopted by the General Com-  mittee at its twelfth meeting on Thursday, 12 November, concerning the ceremony for  the investiture of the Director-General which is to be held on Monday, 16 November, in  plenary meeting.
(4.2) The General Committer decided to recommend to the General Conference that it  approve the following arrangements for the ceremony: first, the congfatulatory and  welcoming address by the President of the General Conference; next, the address by the  Director-General, immediately after which he will take the oath. Messages of congratu-  lation received will then be read out, after which speeches will be delivered by the  Chairman of the Executive Board, by the representative of the host country and by one  representative of each electoral group.
(4.3) If there are no objections, I may take it that this recommendation is  adopted.  RAPPORT DE LA COMMÏSSION I: RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF CGMMISION I: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISION I: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  HOKJiAJI KOMHCCHM I: ~PE30JIiO~kIM ki PEKOMEHQAUHH  übJl> ülJlJ311 : &YI +AI * A   $8-1 %fi&&#&: &-ìx*@-ìx
(5) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  We are going to change the order of today's proceedings slightly and begin by  considering the recommendations of Commission I. I give the floor to Mrs Savitri  Suwansathit, Chairwoman of Commission I, who will introduce the Commission's report.
6.1 Mrs SUWANSATHIT (Thailand), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thank you very much, Mr President. It is an honour and a privilege for  me to submit to the General Conference the report of the work done by Com-  mission I. Mr President, Conunission I's agenda was rather complex and inter-  disciplinary in nature, thus appealing to the delegate's experience and knowl-  edge. Indeed, some of the questions examined have been referred to as being of a  controversial nature.
6.2 Eut, Mr President, I am gratified to say that, on the whole, the Com-  mission proceeded with its business in a climate of constructive dialogue and  co-operation and completed its assignment within the scheduled time. However, as  Chairwoman I have to say frankly - and I think that all the Vice-chairmen of the  Commission would agree with me - that the time pressure was so intense that the  Commission was not able to devote the same degreë of attention to all the items.  For example, I feel that the Unesco Courier, Public Information and the Partici-  pation Programme perhaps did not receive the allocation of discussion time they  deserve.
6.3 Mr President, the Commission owes its success largely to the co-  operation and the wisdom of the delegates; but it also benefited greatly from the  guidance and experience of the Vice-chairmen of the Commission, namely Mrs Diana  Espino de Ortega from Uruguay, Mr Domingos Van-Dunem from Angola, Mr Ahmed Hasham  from Yemen and Mr Siegfried Kaempf from the German Democratic Republic. .All of  them frequently chaired meetings of the Commission, especially during the transi-  tory period when the Commission was awaiting the nomination of a Chairman. The  Commission was also fortunate to have as Rapporteur Miss Genevieve Rouchet from  France, whose dedication and efficiency was highly appreciateã. I would like to  add that Miss Rouchet is also responsible for the preparation of a synthesis of  the debates on the third Medium-Term Plan taking place in all the programme com-  missions of this General Conference, and I have every confidence that the  Rapporteur of Commission I will be able to carry out successfully this difficult  task.
6.4 Mr President, my final word of thanks is addressed to those who assisted  in our debates, particularly all the representatives of the Director-General as  well as the very helpful members of the Commission's secretariat. Their contri-  bution was indispensable to enable all the delegates and the Secretariat to work  hand in hand in ensuring the success of the work entrusted to the Commission.
6.5 Mr President, turning to the report itself, I would like to inform you  that the Commission considered and adopted with some amendments the narrative  part as well as the recommendations part of its report on Thursday, 5 November
1987. On behalf of Commission I, therefore, I am Lubmitting this report to the  General Conference.
6.6 The Report, appears in the following documents: 24 C/114, Part I, Narra-  tive; 24 C/114, Part I, Annex-Recommendations; 24 C/114, Part II, Narrative;
24 C/114, Part II, Annex-Recommendations; 24 C/114, Add. and Corr. Parts I  and II, Narrative; 24 C/114, Add. and Corr., Parts I and II, Annex-  Recommendations. As for the French version, it should be noted that 24 C/114,  Add. and Corr. 2, Parts I and II, Narrative, replaces 24 C/114, Add. and Corr.,  Parts I and II, Narrative. Thank you, Mr President.
(7.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  by its Chairwoman.
(7.2) If there are no objections, I assume that the General Conference will take  note of Part I, Narrative, of the report of Commission I, and of its Addendum and  Corrigendum.
(7.3) I give the floor to the delegate of the Ukrainian SSR.  I am grateful for the work done by Commission I and for the report introduced
8. r-H COTHMKOB (YKpaMHCKaR COBeTCKaR COuManMCTMKeCKaR PeCny6nMKa):  Enaronapm, yBamaeMbIM rocnonMH ilpencenaTenb. MOR neneraqm xoC1e-r ~ b i p a 3 ~ ~ b  n p ~ 3 ~ a ~ e n b -   HOCTb 6mpo KOMMCCMM I 3ô TO, KTO B np0eKTe MCnpûBJleHHOïO BapMaHTa nOKJlaJJ¿l KOMMCCMM I YqTeHbI BCe  npeRJIaïaBLLlMeCR HaMM nOllpaBKM. ORHâKO, R X O T W  661 06paTMTb BHMMaHMe Ha HeKOTOpble HeTOYHOCTM B 3TMX  nOnp¿iBK¿ìX. Ha ~ ~ C ~ J ~ H M M ,  COCTORBLUeMCR 5 HOR~PA, KOrna paCCMaTpMBanCR AOKnaA KOMMCCMM, Mbl OTMeKa-  JIM, KTO B IIyHKTe 16, 3T0 CTpaHMqa nepBaR ROKYMeHTa 24 U114 ADD. M Coir., PYCCKMM TeKCT, nO6âBMTb  MHeHMe, KTO BOnpOCbI, CBR3aHHble C.MMPOM M BbIXMBaHMeM cIenOBeKeCTBa, RBJlRfOTCR nepBOOcrepeRHblMM». B  nepen nocnenHMM npennomeHMeM 3~0ro nyHKTa cnenymqee HoBoe npennoxeene: «OHM TaKxe B L I C K ~ ~ ~ ~ M   aHrJIMnCKOM BapMaHTe 3T0, OKeBMnHo, nonmHo 6bino 3ByKaTb TaK: «those same speakers considered that the  questions relating to peace and the survinal of manking deserve priority, that is to delete the word «also»».  T.e., 9TO R X O T W  CKa3aTb, B PYCCKOM TeKCTe B iipennOXeHMM B MCnpaBneHMM, OTHOCR~eMyC5l K IIYHKTY 16, TPM  íiOCJlenHMX CnOBa IIPenJIOXeHMR pyCCKOr0 TeKCTa nOJlXHb1 KMTaTbCR: «He TaKXe npenCTaBJlReTCR», a  npenJIOXeHM5i OIIYCTMTb «also». 2 nOBTOpRI0, CITO MbI COTnâCHbl C 3TMM TeKCTOM, HO R XOTen 661 AOBeCTM no  CBeneHM5i reHepânbH0M KOH@epeHuMM TOKHYK) CYTb HâUIMX ilOnpaBOK. 6JIarOnapKI 3a BHMMaHMe.  CRBJIRIOTCR nepBoosepenHbIMM», M B aHrnMMcKoM BapMaHTe 3~0i-o me nyHKTa cnenyeT ~3 Tpex nocnenwix CnOB
(8) Mr SOTNIKOV (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic) (Translation from the  Russian) :  Thank you, Mr President. My delegation wishes to thank the Bureau of Com-  mission I for taking account of all its proposed amendments in the revised version of  the Commission's report. I should like, however, to call attention to a certain lack  of accuracy in the corrections. At the meeting on 5 November, during the examination  of the Commission's report, we pointed out that on the first page of document 24 CI114  Add. and Corr., the Russian text of the correction relating to paragraph 16 should  call for the insertion before the last sentence in this paragraph of a new sentence to  the effect that the speakers mentioned previously also considered 'that questions  relating to peace and the survival of mankind deserved priority'. The English text  would read: 'Those same speakers considered that the questions relating to peace and  the survival of mankind deserved priority', that is to say, the word 'also' would be  deleted. Let me repeat that we agree with this text; I merely wished to convey to the  General Conference the exact wording of our amendments. Thank you for your attention.
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Commission what she thinks about this wording, before submitting it to the plenary.  I thank the delegate of the Ukrainian SSR. I now ask the Chairwoman of the
10. Mrs SUWANSATHIT (Thailand), Chairwoman of Commission I:  mission who is sitting there would have no objection. Thank you.  Mr President, I would have no objection if the Rapporteur of the Com-
(11.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I understand that the Chairwoman of Commission I has no o6jection to the  changes in the wording proposed by the delegate of the Ukrainian SSR. Let us therefore  take note of the suggestions made, which will be incorporated in the final version of  the report.
(11.2) I give the floor to the delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany.
12.1 Mr MEINEL (Federal Republic of Germany):  Thank you, Mr President. Let me echo the praise expressed by my  Ukrainian colleague. It is really an excellent .report, and I only have one  question.
12.2 I refer to document 24 C/114, Part I, Narrative, paragraph 44 bis, which  states that a summary is to be made of the discussions on the third Medium-Term  Plan not only in Commission I but also in the other programme commissions.  Mr President, I think for most, if not all, Member States this will be a very  important summary, but on the other hand I fully understand that, as we approach  the end of the General Conference, it will be extremely difficult to compile.  Could I ask what would be the time schedule envisaged for its preparation, and  when - in view of all the difficulties - we may expect to have it? Thank you, Mr  President.
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  reply to the delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany.  Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Chairwoman of Commission I to
14. Mrs SUNWANSATHIT (Thailand), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thank you very much, Mr President. As mentioned in my introduction  earlier, Miss Rouchet, the Rapporteur of Commission I, has assumed the respon-  sibility for preparing a synthesis of the debates on the Medium-Term Plan taking  place in all the programme commissions. As to the time schedule of the synthesis,  I would have - with your permission, Mr President - to turn to Miss Rouchet, who  will be able to give a reply on this matter.
(15.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much. May I ask whether delegates wish to hear the opinion of  the Rapporteur? I should like to remind you, however, that our task is to bring to the  attention of the Conference, for possible approval, the main points of the Com-  mission's report. Details about the publication of the report may be requested  directly from the Secretariat or from the Commission's officers.
(15.2) I now give the floor to Miss Rouchet, Rapporteur of Commission I.
16. Mlle ROUCHET (France), rapporteur de la Commission I :  Monsieur le Président, je répondrai au délégué de la République fédérale  d'Allemagne qu'en ce qui concerne la synthèse des débats sur'le troisième Plan à  moyen terme, nous allons tenter, le Secrétariat et moi, de l'établir la semaine  prochaine. En effet, les commissions vont terminer leurs travaux demain ; or,  c'est là, je crois, une question que les commissions abordent en tout dernier  lieu. Je pense donc que nous aurons dès demain soir au moins des rapports préli-
29  minaires internes et que nous pourrons essayer d'établir la semaine prochaine  cette synthèse qui est un document spécifique et n'a pas, me semble-t-il, à être  adopté par la Conférence générale.
(17) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Miss Rouchet. I hope that the representative of the  Federal Republic of Germany is satisfied with this information. I give the floor to  Mr Wynter.
18. Mr WYNTER (Jamaica) :  Mr President, I simply wanted to suggest that we go ahead with the  adoption of the report and the recommendations; and then perhaps, at the end, you  might allow us to make some general points. I have some general remarks to make  which might effect our working methods, but I think we should leave such ques-  tions until the report has been adopted. Thank you, Mr President.
(19.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  judicious one.
(19.2) As Mr Wynter says, we must now turn our attention to the adoption of the  report of Commission I; there will, of course, be a little time afterwsrds in which to  return to any detail that you may wish to discuss.
(19.3)  Thank you very much, Mr Wynter. I think that your recommendation is a very  I now give the floor to the representative of the German Democratic Republic.
20. Mrs KIERMEIER (German Democratic Republic):  Thank you, Mr President. In view of what was said by the honourable  delegate of Jamaica, I will raise my question at the end of our meeting. Thank  you very much.
(21.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mrs Kiermeier. We take note of Part I, Narrative, of the  report of Commission I, with the amendment proposed by the delegate of the Ukrainian  SSR.
(21.2) We shall now turn to Part II, Narrative, of the report, and its Addendum and  Corrigendum. Since there are no ,objections, I consider that the General Conference  takes note of Part II, Narrative, and its Addendum and Corrigendum.
(21.3) We shall now examine the recommendations proposed by Commission I for each  discussion unit and item. 'Those which concern the work plan and the budget for the  corresponding parts of document 24 C/5 are contained in the first two paragraphs of  each text, immediately after the title of the discussion unit and/or item.
(21.4) I must remind you that the figures concerning the proposed budget that we are  to adopt are subject to any changes that may be made at the joint meeting of the five  Programme Commissions with the Administrative Commission.
(21.5) May I propose that we proceed as follows: we could begin by taking all of  Commission I's recommendations which refer to the work plan but do not entail any  changes to it or, consequently, affect the corresponding budget figures. Then, when  the Chairwoman of Commission I introduces the resolutions pertaining to each dis-  cussion unit and each item, I shall invite her to draw our attention to those recom-  mendations which modify the relevant budget figures. These cases will be dealt with  one by one.
(21.6)  Thank you very much.
(21.7) May I then consider that the General Conference adopts those recommendations  of Commission I which do not modify either the work plan or the budget figures as pró-  posed in document 24 C/5?
(21.8) The recommendations are adopted.
(21.9) I give the floor to the Chairwoman of Commission I to introduce the relevant  recommendations on Unit I, Major Programme I, 'Reflection on world problems and  future-oriented studies'.  As there are no objections, we shall follow the procedure I have suggested.  Unit 1: Major-Programme I - Reflection on world problems and future-  oriented studies
22.1 Mrs SUWANSATHIT (Thailand), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thank you, Mr President. There are two of them. The first one on pages 3  and 4 of the English text of document 24 C/114, Part I, Annex-Recommendations, is  a slightly modified version of proposed resolution 1.1 as contained in document
24 C/5, paragraph 01002. It was amended on the recommendation of the Executive  Board to include one more paragraph. Its text was adopted by consensus in the  Commission.
22.2 The second one is on page 5 of the English text. This calls on the  Director-General to provide technical and financial support to the activities of  the Simon Bolivar International Centre for Scientific Co-operation of Venezuela.  The final version of 24 C/DR.30 presented to this effect by Venezuela was adopted  by the Commission without difficulty. Thank you, Mr President.
(23.1) The PRESIDENT (Translatioe from the Spanish):  for adoption.
(23.2) Since there are no objections, I consider that they are adopted.
(23.4) I give the floor to the Chairwoman of Coirimission I to introduce the recommen-  dations pertaining to this item.  Thank you very much. I now submit these two recommendations to the Conference  Let us now go on to consider Discussion Unit 20 and item 6.2.  Unit 20: Major Proc;ramme XIV - The status of women  Item 6.2 - Unesco's cgytribution towards improving the status pf women
24.1 Mrs SUWANSATHIT (Thailand), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thänk you, Mr President. The debate on the status of women, if I may say  so, was perhaps one of the most passionate ones in the work of the Commission,  and yet it was characterized by the quasi-unanimity of the delegates as regards  the ways of enhancing the status of women.
24.2 You may notice that the draft decision to be adopted by the General Con-  ference is certainly one of the longest ones. That is, in my view, another iridi-  cation of the richness of the debate.
24.3 Mr President, the recommendation submitted to your attention was adopted  by the Commission on the proposal of a working group, and replaces - although it  is largely based on - the proposed resolution 14.1 in paragraph 14002 of document
(25) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much. Mr Wynter has the floor.
26.1 Mr WYNTER (Jamaica) :  Mr President, it is saia that fools rush in where angels fear to tread,  and as I was not present during the discussion I hesitate to do this; but I think  I must.
26.2 I support the resolution but I am a little concerned about para-  graph 13(c) , because this recommends that Member States should make a special  effort to I... recruit more women for vacant posts in ürìesco's Secretariat ...'.  Strictly speaking, Mr President, it is unconstitutional for Member States to  recruit anyone to a vacant post. The text goes on to say, I... by nominat-  ing ...I, and I submit that it would be more correct to say that Member States  should make a special effort 'to nominate a larger number of qualified women  candidates ...I, because this is something that Member States can do. I think it  is important that we should set a proper recommendation before the Gerieral Con-  ference and - let me say once again - it would be constitutionally incorrect to  ask Member States to recruit women or men to vacant posts. Thank you,  Mr President.
(27) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  comments to make on this proposal?  Thank you very much, Mr Wynter. Does the Chairwoman of Commission I have any
28. Wrs SUWANSATHIT (Thailand), Chairwoman of Commission I:  from Jamaica, and have no objection whatever to his proposal. Thank you.  Mr President, I am in total agreement with the distinguished delegate
(29.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation ftom the Spanish):  Thank you very m c h .  There being no further comments, we shall consider that  the proposal of the Chairwoman of Commission I, with Mr Wynter's amendment, agreed to  by the Chairwoman, has been adopted.
(29.2) In the absence of any objections, I consider that it is adopted.
(29.3) Let us proceed now to Discussion Unit 23. The Conference is invited to adopt  the recommendations concerning the Unesco Courier and periodicals. I give the floor to  the Chairwoman of Commission I on this subject.  Unit 23: Part 1I.B - Chapter 3 - Unesco Courier and periodicals
30. Mrs SWANSATHIT (Thailand), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thank you, Mr President. The resolution proposed is contained in para-  graph 15302 of document 24 C/5, and the Commission did not introduce any modifi-  cations at ali. Thank you.
(31.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : '  Thank you very much. Are there any comments on this item?  There being no objections, I consider that the recommendation is adopted. (31.2)
(31.3) We shall now go on to the recommendations concerning Discussion Unit 26 and  item 10.5. I give the floor to the Chairwoman of the Commission.  Unit 26: Part III i Chapter 2 - Office of the Unesco Press  Item 10.5 - Report of the Director-General on publications
32.1 Mrs SUWANSATHIT (Thailand), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Mr President, these two items were taken together by the Commission  because the-subjects treated were of a similar nature. The Commission recommends  that the General Conference adopt resolution 15.9 proposed in paragraph 15802 of  document 24 C/5.
32.2 As regards the Report of the Director-General, the Commission endorsed  the conclusion arrived at by the Executive Board at its 127th session, and pro-  duced a recommenäation to this effect. Both of the Commission's recommendations  are to be found on page 11 of the English text.  .
(33.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much.  There being no objections, the recommendations of Commission I are adopted. (33.2)
(33.3) We come now to Discussion Unit 27. I give the floor to the Chairwoman of  Commission I.
892    Unit 27: Part III - Chapter 3 - Office of Conferences, Languages and  Documents
34. Mrs SUWANSATHIT (Thailand) , Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thank you, Mr President. As regards this discussion unit, the Conunission  did not produce any programme resolution. Its recommendations concern exclusively  the work plan. In particular, in paragraph 2 on page 12, the Commission proposes  that the budget of the Office of Conferences, Languages and Documents be reduced  by $54,000. Thank you, Mr President.
(35.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  budget allocations proposed in document 24 C/5 be modified.
(35.2) In the absence of any objections, the recommendation is adopted.
(35.3) We shall now consider the recommendations concerning Discussion Unit 21 and  items 8.5 and 8.6. I give the floor to the Chairwoman of Commission I.  Thank you very much. As you can see, the Commission is proposing that the  Unit 21:-Part 1I.B - Chapter 1 - Copyright  ----_-i Item 8.5 - Desirability of adopting a general-international instrument  on the safeguarding of folklore  ICem 8.6 - Desirability of adopting an international izstrument on the  protection of works in the public domain
36. Mrs SUWANSATHIT (Thailand), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Mr President, you are perfectly right to combine these three items: they  áre very much interlinked and interdependent. The first is an amended version of  the resolutiori proposed in paragraph 15102 of document 24 C/5. The second and  third were presented to the Commission at the end of the debate, one of them  being proposed by a working group. Thank you, Mr President.
(37.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  adopted.
(37.2) I now invite you to take a decision on Commission I's recommendations con-  cerning the section on statistics. I give the floor to the Chairwoman of Commission I.  Thank you very much. Since there are no objections, the recommendations are  Unit 22: Part 1I.B - Chapter 2 - Statistics
38. Mrs SUWANSATHIT (Thailand), Chairwoman of Commission I:  proposed resolution contained in paragraph 15202 of document 24 C/5. Thank you.  Mr President, the first of these recommendations is identical with the
(39.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  adopted.  Thank you very much. There being no objections, the first recommendation is
(39.2) The Chairwoman of Commission I will now introduce the second recommendation.
40. Mrs SUWANSXTHIT (Thailand), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Mr President , the second recommendation was adopted by the Commission  after a rather lengthy exchange of views which ended with a vote on the amended  text of an initial proposal submitted by a number of countries. Thank you,  Mr President.
(41.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  There being no objections,.the recommendation is adopted.
(41.2) We come now to Discussion Unit 24, Part II.B.4 - External relations and  public information. We shall consider the recommendations concerning REX, and I give  the floor to the Chairwoman of Commission I.  Unit 24: Part II.B.4 - External Relations and Public Information
42.1 Mrs SUWANSATHIT (Thailand), Chairwoman of Commission 1:  Thank you, Mr President. The Commission recommends that the General Con-  ference adopt ten decisions pertaining to this item, to be found on pages 4-12 of  the English text of document 24 C/114, Part II, Annex-Recommendations. The first  one concerns European co-operation, which was the subject of a pronounced  interest among the delegates concerned. Four of the recommendations - recommen-  ciation (b) on page 5, (d) on page 7, (e) on page 9 and (f) on page 10 - are  practically identical to the relevant proposed resolution in document 24 C/5. An  interesting initiative to increase the budget allocations for the programme of  co-operation with National Commissions is reflected in recommendation (c) on  pages 6 anã 7. Its adoption will, of course, modify the budget figures in para-  graphs 15457-15460 and 15461 of document 24 C/5, without however modifying the  total budget figure for this part of the proposed programme. Mr . President, the  remaining four recommendations, namely (9) , (h), (i) and (j) , concern the  celebration of anniversaries.
42.2 I would like to draw your attention, Mr President, to page 3 of the  English version of document 24 C/114, Part II, Annex-Recommendations, on which  appears the phrase 'which is to be adopted after adoption of draft resolution
24 C/DR.319'. The reference should be to paragraphs 15457-15460, and not only to  paragraph 15457.
42.3 Mr President, I would like finally to inform you that the Commission  took note of 24 C/DR.110 and that, according to the information given to us by  the Secretariat, the Director-General will take this draft resolution into  accciunt when preparing the final version of the work plan of the 'Public Infor-  mation' section of document 24 C/5. Thank you, Mr President.
(43.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  recommendations are adopted.
(43.2) We shall now take a decision on paragraph 1 of Part II, Annex-  Recommendations, of the report.
(43.3) Since there are no objections, paragraph 1 is adopted.  Thank you very much. Since there are no objections, I consider that the
(43.4)  to the Chairwoman of Commission I to introduce the relevant recommendations.  We now come to Discussion Unit 25 - Participation Programme. I give the floor  Unit 25: Participation Programme
44. Mrs SUWANSATHIT (Thailand), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Mr President, the Commission proposes that the General Conference adopt  two decisions concerning this item. The first is identical with that in para-  graph 15502 of document 24 C/5. As regards the second one, it took the Commission  some time to arrive at what could be qualified as a reasonably balanced proposal,  inspired by the recommendation of the Legal Committee. Thank you, Mr President.
(45.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  adopted.
(45.2) We come now to item 10.3 - Participation by certain Member States in the  regional activities undertaken by the Organization in the Asia and the Pacific region.
(45.3) I give the floor to the Chairwoman of Commission I to introduce the recommen-  dations relating to this item.  Thank you very much. There being no objections, the recommendations are  Item 10.3 - Participation by the following Member States in the Organiz-  ation's regional activities in the Asia and the Pacific region: Bahrain,  Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi  - Arabia, Syrian Arab Republic, United Arab Emirates, Yemen
46. Mrs SUWANSATHIT (Thailand), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thank you, Mr President. There was a proposal from the floor which met  with the approval of the countries concerned; and this was accepted by the Com-  mission. There is a point O C  detail, Mr President, in 24 C/114, Add. and Corr.,  Annex-Recommendations: on page 3 of the English text, the correction referring to
12 Member States shoulä be deleted because the resolution which has already been  adopted cannot be changed. The desire of one Member State to participate in the  regional activities in Asia and the Pacific was therefore reflected in the narra-  tive part. To this end, the General Conference may wish to modity the text of the  pertinent resolution un page 17 of document 24 C/114, Part II, Annex-  Recommendations, by inserting the following paragraph after paragraph 1: 'Taking  into consideration the desire manifested by Egypt to participate in the regional  âctivities of the Organization in the Asia and the Pacific region'. Thank you,  Mr President.
(47.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  consider that this recommendation is adopted, with the wording just submitted to us?
(47.3)  dations relating to item 10.6.  You have heard the Chairwoman's explanation and recommendation. May we  There being no objections, I consider that the recommendation is adopted.  I give the floor to the Chairwoman of Commission I to introduce the recommen-
48.  any  Item 10.6 - Definition of regions with a view to the implementation of  regional activities  Mrs SUWANSATHIT (Thailand), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thank you, Mr President. This particular recommendation did not call for  debate by the Commission. Thank you.
(49.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Since there are no objections, I consider that the recommendation is adopted.
(49.2) We now go on to the recommendations concerning item 10.9. The Chairwoman of  Commission I has the floor.  Item 10.9 - Guidelines for the celebration of anniversaries
50. Mrs SUWANSATHIT (Thailand), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Mr President, I would like to make a clarification by pointing out that  this recommendation has no bearing whatsoever on the participation of Unesco in  the celebration of anniversaries in 1988-1989. Thank you.
(51.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  adopted.  There being no objections, I shall take it that the recommendations are  Item 9.1 - Report by the Director-General on changes in the classification of  international non-governmental organizations
(51.2) We come now to item 9.1. We are required only to take note of the report by  the Director-General. If there are no objections, I consider that the Conference takes  note of the report.
(51.3) It is so decided.
(51.4) We come now to item 6.4. I give the floor to the Chairwoman of Commission I.  Item 6.4 - Report by the Director-General on the celebration 'of the  fortieth anniversary of the founding of Unesco ,  Mrs SUWANSATHIT (Thailand), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thank you, Mr President. On this item there are two recommendations. The  first one invites- the General Conference to take note of the Report by the  Director-General, which is contained in 24 C/18. The second one puts the  celebration of the 40th anniversary of Unesco within a very broad context,  emphasizing the role of the Organization in the promotion of international co-  operation and calling for specific measures to be taken in the pursuance of its  objectives. Thank you, Mr President.
(53.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  subject.
(53.2) I consider that the recommendations are adopted.
(53.3) We come now to items 16.4, 16.6 and 16.8. If you agree, we shall consider  these three recommendations together, as Commission I did. I give the floor to the  Chairwoman of Commission I.  Thank you very much. I see no one who wishes to take the floor on this  Item 16.4 - Celebration in 1990 of the 100th anniversary of the birth of  President Ho Chi Minh  Item 16.6 - Celebration in 1989 of the centenary of the birth of  Jawaharlal Nehru  Item 16.8 - Celebration in 1988 of the 400th anniversary of the death of  the architect Sinan
54. Mrs SUWANSATHIT (Thailand), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Mr President, I do not think that I need to reiterate the sigriificance  of these anniversaries, because those who spoke in the Commission on the relevant  draft resolutions have already emphasized their importarice for their countries  and for the international community. Thank you, Mr President.
(55.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  dation is adopted.
(55.2) Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our examination of Commission I's  recommendation concerning the last item on its agenda. Nay I, on your behalf as well  as in my capacity as President of the General Conference, thank Mrs Suwansathit,  Chairwoman of Commission I, and the Vice-chairmen, Mrs Diana Espino de Ortega,  Mr Ahmed Hashem, Mr Domingos van Dumen and Mr Siegfried Kaempf, for the work they have  accomplished in organizing the Commission's debates. I also wish to thank  Miss Rouchet, Rapporteur of Commission I, for her excellent work in preparing the Com-  mission's report.
(55.3) I give the floor to Mr Wynter, delegate of Jamaica.  Thank you very much. There being no objections, I consider that the recommen-
56.1 Mr WYNTER (Jamaica) :  Mr President, may I echo your congratulations to the Chairwoman of the  Commission and her Bureau and the Rapporteur and others for their excellent work.
56.2 NOW, I should like to make a general point, Mr President. It appears to  have become customary throughout the years for the Secretariat to take account in  the main - and sometimes almost exclusively - of the resolutioris which are  adopted. But let me draw attention to the very rich comments which are listed in  the narrative parts of the reports of the commissions, as well as those made  duririg the general debate in plenary. Ministers of government come and spend a  week or two and make statements in plenary and perhaps also in the commissions.  These statements are - in the case of the plenary - reproduced verbatim; in the  case of the commissions, they are summarized.
56.3 I would urge the Secretariat, the Director-General and his colleagues,  to begin to pay almost equal attention to what is said in the debates, which  might not be reflected in the resolutions, because it is really the debates in  the commissions and the statements made in the general debate that constitute the  initial consultation process between Member States and the Secretariat on future  programmes and budgets, whether in the context. of the C/5 document or of the  Medium-Term Plan.
56.4 So my suggestion - and I hope that some attention will be paid to it -  is that it is not only the resolutions that should be taken as a guide by the  Secretariat but also the rich debates in the commissions and the general policy  debate. I hope that this could imprgve the functioning and the methods of work of  the Secretariat and also the consultation process between the Director-General  and the Member States. Thank you, Mr President.
(57.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  extremely worthwhile suggestion.
(57.2)  I thank Mr Wynter. We shall ask the Secretariat to take due note of his  The delegate of the German Democratic Republic now has the floor.
58. Mrs KIERMEIER (German Democratic Republic):  Thank you, Mr Presiãent. I simply wish to express our gratitude to the  Chairwoman and Vice-chairmen of Commission I and to the Rapporteur. We are very  satisfied with the result of the work of Commission I. I have only one question,  concerning the summary of the discussion on the next Medium-Term Plan. In para-  graph 44 bis on page 18 of the English text of Part 1: of the narrative section of  the report of Commission I, it is mentioned that we will have a summary of the  whole discussion on the third Medium-Term Plan in all the commissions. I take it  that this report will be prepared in collaboration with the rapporteurs of all  the other commissions, and I hope that we will get this summary before we leave  the Conference. Tharik you very much.
(59) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Sri Lanka now has the floor.  I thank the delegate of the German Democratic Republic. The representative of
60.  be  the
1 Mrs GURUGE (Sri Lanka):  Mr President of the General Conference, distinguished delegates, may I  permitted to propose a vote of thanks to the Chairwoman of Conunission I for  very effective and expeditious manner in which she conducted its deliber-  ations. Mrs Suwansathit not only proved to be most competent in the Chair; her  extensive knowledge of Unesco matters helped the Commission to dispose of many  questions to the satisfaction of all.
60.2 I should also like to record our appreciation of the work of Mr Majeed  Khan as the first Chairman of the Commission. Equally gsateful are we to our  Vice-chairmen who, from time to time, bore the onus of guiding the discussions.
60.3 i would fail in my duty if I did not extend our grateful thanks to the  Rapporteur and members of the Secretariat who spared no pains in putting together  all our decisions accurately and concisely. We have been fortunate to have this  dedicated team to see us through such a heavy and diverse agenda.
60.4 Lastly, a special word of thanks is due to the representatives of the  Director-General, whose introductions and interventions were consistentLy help-  ful. To everyone of theni I wish to say simply, but sincerely, thank you. Thank  you, Mr President.
(61) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  delegates. I now give the floor to the delegate of Brazil.  Thank you very much. I believe your vote of thanks is endorsed by all
62. Mr PAIVA LEITE (Brazil):  Thank you, Mr President. I would like to support the very pertinent  observations which have been made by the distinguished delegate of Jamaica on the  importance of the comments made by the delegates during the debate in the Com-  mission and in plenary about the subjects dealt with in our report. In the par-  ticular case of the report of Commission I, one may ask if the recommendation  regarding the Unesco Courier explicitly takes into account the comments and  criticisms made at the plenary meeting, when there was a general feeling of  rejection of the formula presented in document 24 C/5 about the financing of non-  headquarters editions. While sharing the point of view of the distinguished  delegate of Jamaica, which according to yourself, Mr President, is going to be  recorded in the proceedings of our meeting today, I would like also to endorse  the extremely nice and justifiable remarks of the distinguished delegate of Sri  Lanka about the way in which our distinguished Chairwoman from Thailand presided  over our meetings and the general co-operation which was accorded to the  delegates by the members of the Bureau and the Secretariat of Commission I. Thank  you, Mr President.
(63) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Commission I and its recommendations.  I thank the delegate of Brazil. We have concluded the work on the report of  RAPPORT DU COMITE JURIDIQUE SUR LE POINT 7.1 DE L'ORDRE DU JOUR (PRGJET  D'AMENDEMENT A L'ARTICLE 12, PARAGRAPHE 1, DU REGLEMENT FINANCIER)  REPORT OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE ON ITEM 7.1 OF THE AGENDA (DRAFT AMENDMENT TO  ARTICLE 12, PARAGRAPH 1, OF THE FINANCIAL REGULATIONS)  INFORME DEL COMITE JURlDICO SOBRE EL PUNTO 7.1 DEL ORDEN DEL DIA (PROYECTO DE  ENMIENDA DEL PARRAFO 1 DEL ARTICULO 12 DEL REGLAMENTO FINANCIERO)  flOKJIAA IOPMnMsECKOrO KOMMTETA HO HYHKTY 7.1 nOBECTKM AHFI  (nPOEKT H3MEHEHMZI nYHKTA 1 CTATbM 12 HOJIOXEHMZI O QMHAHCAX)  (JUI &e \ Y  ~JUI \ .$dl ,&Su es-) JL'JI J3.t &e V,) .;?I & eS;,ul +I 29
(64) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  report, which will be introduced by Mrs Kelly. But first the Secretary has the floor.  We shall now proceed to examine the first part of the Legal Committee's
65. Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais signaler qu'une erreur s'est  glissée dans le titre de la version française du document 24 C/120 (et uniquement  dans cette version). En effet, le point examine est le point 7.1 et non, comme  il est indiqué dans le titre, le point 7.2. I1 convient donc de remplacer "7.2"  par "7.1". Merci, Monsieur le Président.
(66.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Please correct the mistake in the French version.
(66.2) I now give the floor to Mrs Kelly, Chairwoman of the Legal Cormnittee, who  will introduce the Committee's recommendations on the item under discussion.
(67.1) Mrs KELLY (Argentina), Chairwoman of the Legal Committee (Translation from  the Spanish) :  Thank you very much, Mr President. As you have just said, I shall refer only  to one part of the Legal Committee's report, concerning Article 12, paragraph 1, of  the Financial Regulations.
(67.2) The Legal Committee examined a proposed amendment to Article 12, paragraph 1,  of the Financial Regulations, submitted by Australia and Canada in document 24 Cf26.  The purpose of the amendment was to add to the present text of that paragraph 1 a pro-
900    vision that the term of office of the External Auditor would terminate if the State of  which he was the Auditor-General withdrew from the Organization. The proposal also  provided that, in such a case, the outgoing External Auditor should complete the audit  for the financial period during which he was in office. Finally, it provided that the  Executive Board would take the necessary steps for an acting External Auditor to  ensure continuity in the auditing of accounts, from the financial period following  that during which the withdrawal took effect until the appointment by the General Con-  ference of a new External Auditor. The Committee examined at the same time a sub-  amendment submitted by the Federal Republic of Germany in document 24 Cl26 Add.  requesting the deletion of the last part of the proposed amendment.
(67.4) The Legal Committee observed that the amendment had the advantage of regu-  lating a hitherto unforeseen situation by giving the Executive Board responsibility  for making temporary provision for the auditing of the accounts when the term of  office of the External Auditor appointed by the General Conference came to an end on  account of the withdrawal of the Member State of which he was the Auditor-General.  However, numerous objections to this proposal were raised by some members of the Legal  Committee. In some members' view, it was not fitting that the Executive Board should  intervene in this matter, even to appoint an acting External Auditor, who would there-  by forfeit his necessary independence vis-à-vis, the Executive Board. Others considered  that Article V.B.5.(b) of the Constitution authorized the Executive Board to take the  necessary measures to deal with this situation. Some members of the Committee men-  tioned the possibility of appointing a deputy External Auditor.
(67.5) Several proposals were submitted in an attempt to reconcile the points of  view expressed in the Committee. Finally, a working group was set up and drafted a  proposal which the Legal Committee endorsed and is recommending to the General Confer-  ence for adoption. The draft, which is contained in paragraph 9 of document
24 C/LEG/12, reads as follows:  The proposed amendment was considered admissible by the Legal Committee.  'The General Conference,  Having examined documents 24 Cl26 and 24 Cl26 Add. and taken note of the  Report of the Legal Committee (document 24 C/120),  Decides to replace the present text of Article 12, paragraph 1, of the  Financial Regulations by the following:  "An External Auditor, who shall be the Auditor-General (or an officer  holding the equivalent title) of a Member State, shall be appointed in  the manner decided by the General Conference, for the purpose of audit-  ing the accounts of the following financial period. Unless the General  Conference decides to the contrary, his appointment shall be renewed for  the following two financial periods, after which the General Conference  shall again appoint an External Auditor";  Decides to replace, in the second sentence of the French version of Financial  Regulation 12.2, the term "relev6" by the term "déchargS", and to make the  same change wherever necessary, that is to say, in the Arabic, Chinese,  Russian and Spanish versions'.
(67.6) The latter editorial amendment has been introduced to avoid the connotation  of a sanction that the term 'relevé' might have in those languages. Thank you very  much, Mr President.
(68) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Chairwoman of the Legal Committee for her statement on this item  which, I repeat, we are considering at this meeting on the General Committee's recom-  mendation. I now invite the delegate of Canada to take the floor.
69.1 Mr WILSON (Canada):  Thank you, Mr President. My first duty is a pleasant one because it is  to thank the Chairwoman of the Legal Committee for introducing the report and,  through her, to thank the entire Legal Committee for the tremendous amount of  work they have accomplished at this session of the General Conference, working on  what I suppose might charitably be called an avalanche of proposed amendments to  the Constitution and the reguletory instruments, mainly sponsored by Canada and  Australia.
69.2 We are here today, of ccurse, only considering one of them; but I men-  tion these others to place in context the remarks I am about to make. I want to  draw attention to the fact that a good deal of the Committee's work - I say this  from observation, you understand - was proceeding in tandem: they were riding  several horses simultaneously like a circus performer, and it was a little diffi-  cult to keep these things all in perfect synchronization. Now the reason why this  is important is that, when we study the report of the Cornittee contained in  document 24 C/120, we see that an enormous amount of emphasis was placed on the  idea that, when Article II, paragraph 6, of the Constitution is brought up to  date and is amended, the rationale, the raison d'etre, for the original  Australian/Canadian proposal would cease to exist. The whole original amendment  would become superfluous. The fact of the matter, however, is that Article II.6  is not going to be amended at this session of the General Conference. It is going  to be a minimum of two years before it can be amended. And this means that the  situation obtaining at the moment concerning Article 12.1 of the Financial Regu-  lations is in fact not going to be changed in substance in any way at all by the  proposal that is now before plenary.
69.3 This compels me, Mr President, to make a. formal proposal, which I will  explain after I have made it; but I have to start with a very formal proposal to  this session of the General Conference that the proposal offered to us by the  Legal Committee to change the language of Article 12.1 of the Financial Regu-  lations - of course, I say nothing about 12.2, that decision should go through -  should not be proceeded with this morning. My formal proposal is that the entire  subject should be left in abeyance for the same length of time as the question of  Article 11.6 of the Constitution and other related matters.
69.4 The reason why this is important is that there is much more to this  question of appointing an External Auditor than merely determining whether his  mandate should run for two-year periods, renewable or otherwise. But the Admiri-  istrative Commission, which will be meeting later today, has not in fact at any  time been seized of this particular constitutional issue. Now that there is a  consensus within the Legal Committee - and therefore, undoubtedly, there will be  a similar consensus here in this plenary meeting - that the original Canadian/  Australian proposal should not be proceeded with, the same logic applies equally  forcefully this morning regarding the superfluity, the unnecessity of proceeding  with any decision to change the existing Article 12.1 of the Financial Regu-  lations, which will serve us, will serve the Administrative Commission, will  selve this plenary perfectly adequately to choose an External Auditor for the  next financial period.
69.5 I say this with confidence because it is fairly obvious to all of us now  that none of the four countries that have sponsored candidates are contemplating  withdrawal from the Organization or putting in notice before 31 December 1987,  and so there is therefore no real risk any more that some Member State having the  privilege of providing an External Auditor may withdraw on 31 December 1988 and  leave the Organization once again in the calendar year 1989 in the totally  anomalous legal situation in which we find ourselves right now today, where we  have had for the last two years an External Auditor who was not the Auditor  General of a Member State. These risks, I think, need not trouble us. It is for  us here in plenary to assess the political implications of these matters, and  this is the proper place to say we can tranquilize our minds on that point and  satisfy ourselves that there is in fact no real justification for proceeding with  undue haste or urgency or for tampering with the existing language of  Article 12.1.
69.6 So there is my formal proposal. And to wind this up, Mr President, I  want to emphasize that this is in no way intended as a criticism of the Legal  Committee: I do not want to be faulted for appearing to be wanting in courtesy  and gratitude to them for what they have done. They have done their job; they  have come to us with some suggestions which in fact go very far beyond - because  of the nature of the working group and the proposals that were generated in the  course of their debate - the original legal issue of whether or not we might find  ourselves in the future in the anomalous situation of having an External Auditor  who was the Auditor-General of a country that was not a Member State. They go  into the question of whether there should be periodicity or automaticity of  renewal and these are all matters that the Canadian authorities consider of very  great importance. The issue should be considered in due course and in a leisurely  way by the Executive Board over the next two years and by the Administrative Com-  mission at the next session of the General Conference. We will particularly want  to be looking at the following issues: whether, if there is to be a six-year  term, it should coincide with the Medium-Term Plan - which is not what would  happen if we adopt this recommendation this morning; whether there should be  rotationality; and whether we should have change for the sake of change. There  are all kinds of problems that are not addressed here; and what would really  trouble us would be that if this plenary were to adopt this decision this morn-
29  ing, which we hope they will not, they would in fact be slamming the door on the  possibility of getting advice from the one organ of this General Conference that  is best qualified, by its competence, to advise plenary on all matters pertaining  to the function of the External Auditor, i.e. the Administrative Commission,  which every two years, in fact, considers the reports of the External Auditor.  Now since we did not arrange at this session to have a joint meeting of the Legal  Committee and the Administrative Commission, I do not think we need reproach our-  selves at all that we have ended up with potentially a slightly embarassing situ-  ation in which we have a full-fledged report coming forward in good faith from  the Legal Committee and only now in plenary are there being heard criticisms of  the idea that we should adopt it at this time.
69.7 One last thing, just to make sure that we have not overlooked something  essential. There are outstanding - this plenary should know it - ideas that have  come up in debates in the Administrative Commission, for example that there  should be possibly a panel of auditors. That door would be closed on us if we  adopt this resolution. Another very interesting idea came up yesterday in a  private meeting of the four countries that are sponsoring candidates, including  Canada, that is, that we might profitably in the future arrange for the External  Auditor, as a condition of his contract, to take under his wing for training  purposes apprentice - stagiaire - auditors from other Member States that have an  interest in acquiring skill and competence in the audit function. The Polish and  Byelorussian delegates last Tuesday in the Administrative Commission attached  great importance to the idea of rotationality. All these ideas must be considered  in due course; time is needed for this; and we think the proper place to do that  is in the Executive Board and that the proper time is the rìext two years.
69.8 For all these reasons, Mr President, I am asking, I am urging my  colleagues here at this time to join with me in thanking the Legal Committee for  the work they have dorie, for their proposals, but, in thanking them, to say:  please, we need more time to think about this, we wish to come back to it in two  years time. And that essentially, Mr President, is the basis of my formal pro-  posal. Thank you.
(70.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr Wilson. I note that you are proposing that the matter  should not be discussed today. I would remind you, however, that we are dealing with  this topic by virtue of a consensus decision by the General Committee - a decision of  which you are aware, since Canada is a member of the General Committee.
(70.2) I shall now give the floor to those who have asked for it, and first of all  to Mrs Kelly, Chairwoman of the Legal Committee, who may of course take the floor  whenever she wishes in the course of the discussion to provide information and  clarifications.
(71.1) Mrs KELLY (Argentina) , Chairwoman of the Legal Committee (Translation from  the Spanish) :  Mr President, my reason for asking for the floor is not to influence the  debate, as a Chairwoman of the Legal Comittee could in no way do, but to comment on  Mr Wilson's yemarks and help to clarify the discussion on the matter before us.
(71.2) First of all, the Legal Committee decided to reject the proposed amendment to  Article 12, paragraph I, of the Financial Regulations submitted by Canada and  Australia, on account of the constitutional problems that it would raise. The point is  that the effect of this proposal would be to confer powers on the Executive Board  which would run counter to the very spirit of the Constitution, since the External  Auditor's function is precisely to audit accounts and expenditure in which the Exec-  utive Board will inevitably have been involved.
(71.3) That proposal. therefore raised very serious problems. The proposal now being  submitted by the working group can resolve the question of the appointment of the  External Auditor in general, and not only in the event of his being a national of a  Member State that withdraws from the Organization, since to some extent it reinforces  the constitutional provision which empowers the General Conference to appoint the  External Auditor. According to the Legal Committee's proposal, the External Auditor  would be appointed for two years, and should the subsequent General Conference not  decide to remove him from office, his term would be extended by two further financial  periods. In this way, the six-ye$r term of office would be completed, which is the  question causing some concern to Mr Wilson.
(71.4) The other point made by Mr Wilson, who goes on to inform the plenary about  the Legal Committee's decision concerning the other proposals, is that the amendment  which the Legal Committee is proposing is now superfluous. I do not think that it is.  The amendment submitted by the Legal Committee goes beyond the intentions of the  amendment proposed by Canada and Australia, since it endeavours to solve a problem for  which no provision was made in the Constitution. Not only does the Legal Committee's  proposal settle the problem which the amendment of Canada and Australia sought to  address, but to some extent it entrusts the General Conference with the task of solv-  ing other problems connected with the appointment of the External Auditor. In other  words, Mr President, the Legal Committee's proposal cannot be examined in the light of  the proposal submitted by those two countries. I believe that it lends itself to  separate consideration. This explanation will help to clarify the debate, since the  Legal Committee's proposal can be discussed as an independent item before the presen-  tation of the Legal Committee's report on the other amendments. It is a topic in its  own right, and can be discussed separately from the other decisions of the Legal  Comittee.
(71.5) As regards Mr Wilson's comment to the effect that this propasa1 would raise  all kinds of problems, I should like to ask him to specify which ones. In any case,  our proposal does not raise any constitutional problems, as the Australian and  Canadian one does. Thank you, Mr President.
(72) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mrs Kelly. I give the floor to the delegate of Iceland.
73.1. Mr ISAKSSON (Iceland), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Thank you, Mr President. I asked for the floor as Chairman of the Admin-  istrative Commission to make a few comments on this matter. Let me first thank  the Legal Committee and its Chairwoman, Mrs Kelly, for their efforts and their  valuable work. Secondly, Mr President, I wish to state that I find it contradic-  tory - and I regret this - that the two items on the agenda of the General  Conference which concern amendments to the Financial Regulations of the Organiz-  ation, i.e. the item we are now debating, 7.1, and item 11.9, which concerns an  amendment to Article 12.6 of the Financial Regulations, were referred to two  different subsidiary organs of the General Conference. This is indeed contradic-  tory. It is, however, too late now to reverse this decision but I hope that if  similar matters come up at the next session of the General Conference they will  be dealt with logically by the same organ or organs.
73.2 It seems to me that perhaps the most logical way of disposing c>f such  issues would be to have them first considered by the Legal Committee in regard to  what comes within the purview of that Committee, that is to say the legal  aspects, the formal aspects, and so on; and then to have them considered, on the  basis inter alia of a report by the Legal Committee thereon, by the Administra-  tive Commission, which deals with the substance of these matters anyway.
73.3 Now, my third and last point, Mr President, concerns the substance of  the matter at hand, namely the definition of the duration of the term of office  of the External Auditor. This has been brought up time and again in our debates  in the Administrative Commission, and also in the Bureau of the Commission, to  which the matter of the appointment of an External Auäitor of the Organization,  item 11.10, was referred with a view to seeking a conserisus; it was also dis-  cussed yesterday, in the meeting I called, at the request of the General Com-  mittee of the Conference, to make another supreme effort to achieve consensus. I  cannot state any final position of the Administrative Commission to this effect  because we have not yet taken any decision, but this afternoon we shall clearly  decide what to recommend to the plenary. What I can state, however, is that all  those who have expressed an opinion, who have taken a position on this matter in  the Commission, in the Bureau and in the informal meeting of the four countries  yesterday have expressed the opinion that, at the present juncture, the External  Auditor should be elected for only two years.
73.4 This being said, I can personally state that I see no harm in a decision  which would imply the keeping of this matter in abeyance and having it considered  by the Executive Board (in particular, of course, through its Finance and Admin-  istrative Commission) , and to leave a decision concerning the long term to be  taken at the next session of the General Conference. This because the present  Article 12.1 of the Financial Regulations states that 'an External Auditor, who  shall be the Auditor-General (or an officer holding the equivalent title) of a  Member State, shall be appointed in the manner and for the period decided by the  General Conference'. Since the General Conference, according to this paragraph,  can decide on the term of office - be it two years or whatever - there is no need  to amend the regulation this time in the light of the decision which this session  of the General Conference must take. Let me repeat then, as a personal position,  that I see no harm in a decision by this plenary to keep the matter ir1 abeyance  until the next session of the General Conference. Thank you very much,  Mr President.
(74) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr Isaksson. It seems to me that you were speaking primarily as  Chairman of the Administrative Commission. Ms Ghose, delegate of India, now has the  floor.
75.1 Ms GHOSE (India) :  Thank you, Mr President. This is a matter on which the Chairwoman of the  Legal Committee has already spoken at length - I refer to the proposal by the  distinguished delegate of Canada that we postpone action on this recommendation  by the Legal Committee. I have very little to add to what the Chairwoman of the  Legal Committee said except to underline a few points.
75.2 The first is that the recommended amendment (and the Legal Committee in  discussing it was not concerned only with the duration; the main issue addressed  was the authority which could appoint an External Auditor - a matter which in the  past has troubled the Executive Board) was felt by the Legal Committee to be  legal. In other words it is recognized that the powers rest with the General  Conference. The matter is not directly- or solely related to cases of the with-  drawal of a Member State, but to any situation which may arise necessitating the  replacement of the External Auditor - an action which the General Conference and  only the General Conference can undertake.
75.3 . Now having said this, Mr President, I fail to understand why there is a  feeling that at the present moment we are unable to adopt this particular  decision. I do not see it slamming any doors; on the contrary, it takes a  decision at the present moment and leaves the door open at the twenty-fifth and  indeed the twenty-sixth sessions.
75.4 What I would like to emphasize is that I think all delegates here do  have their own particular interest and point of view. Perhaps - as the delegate  of Iceland who spoke before me as Chairman of the.Administrative Commission men-  tioned - this could have gone through the Administrative Commission at some  stage, but it is now too late for that. We have an amendment which is found  legally admissible, and I see no reason why we should now talk of postponement. I  had understood from the earlier intervention by the distinguished delegate of  Canada that his reluctance concerning its adoption referred only to this morning;  but I now believe that what he formally proposed was that it be postponed  indefiniteay, and at least until the twenty-fifth session, and I see no reason  whatever for that at all.
75.5 What we do this morning is up to you, Mr President, together with the  Chairwoman of the Legal Committee. As a delegate I do not have any views on our  procedure, but I do think that the General Conference would be failing in its  duty, having been informed of the difïiculties faced by the Board in the last two  years concerning the specific issue as to which body has the power and the auth-  ority to appoint an External Auditor when that becomes necessary, to act on the  assumption that there will be no withdrawals. We should rather act on the basis  of experience.
75.6 Ye have indeed had an experience, and to forestall any others a par-  ticular decision has been recommended to the plenary, specifying that only the  General Conference can appoint an External Auditor. The question of the term, of  the duration, comes into pliiy because of that, because the General Conference  meets every two years. Mr President, I will stop at this point, but I would like  to reserve the right to return perhaps to this matter later.
(76) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) :  Jamaica.  I thank the delegate of India. I give the floor to Mr Wynter, delegate of
77.1 Mr WYNTER (Jamaica) :  Mr President, may I join those who have complimented the Chairwoman and  members of the Legal Committee on wrestling with this problem and setting a pro-  posal before us. I regret to say, however, Mr President, that the proposal does  not answer the concerns raised in the amendment by Australia and Canada.
77.2 What were those concerns? They centred on the question, what happens if  a State withdraws? One issue here, Mr President, is whether an External Auditor  appointed €or a fixed period might not have a legal case against the Organization  if through no fault of his own he ceased to be the External Auditor. In other  words, if it is not written into his contract, if it is not in the regulations,  that when the State to which he belongs ceases to be a Member of the Organization  he is automatically dismissed, then is it not quite possible, legally, for him to  institute proceedings against the General Conference, against the Organization?  Now, Mr President, I believe that the first concern of the Australian-Canadian  amendment was to make it quite clear that when a Member State withdraws, the  External Auditor no longer exercises that function. That is not in the recom-  mendation submitted to us by the Legal Committee, and I wonder why it was  overlooked.
77.3 The second concern was, what happens if the External Auditor's term of  office is terminated (as a result of withdrawal, resignation, death, severe  illness, or for any other reason) within a financial period? And the purpose of  the Australian-Canadian amendment was to try and find an answer to that, because  there is no answer in our present regulations.
77.4 Mr President, what I am saying is that, much as I admire the work done  by the Legal Committee, its proposed amendment does not answer those questions.  The Legal Committee quite properly devoted a lot of time to the question of the  authority of the Executive Board vis-à-vis that of the General Conference, but  this is not the major issue. The major issue - I repeat - is what happens if,  within the term of appointment of the External Auditor, the State withdraws, he  resigns, or he becomes very ill, what happens? And that has not been addressed in  the amendment before us.
77.5 Mr President, what this amendment does is to introduce the concept of a  probationary period. In effect, it says that the persori shall be appointed for  the following financial period, i.e. two years, and then - unless the General  Conference decides otherwise - he shall be automatically extended for two further  periods. In other words, a six-year term: two years probationary arid four years  automatic if the General Conference is satisfied with his work. And then it does  not even give the possibility of eligibility for reappointment. The text stätes,  I... after which the General Conference shall again appoint an External Auditor',  giving the impression that six years is the absolute, maximum term. Surely,  Mr President, we would have to ask the Legal Committee to consider adding some  clause, such as 'without prejudice to the eligibility for reappointment of the  retiring External Auditor', otherwise we niight be getting rid of ari excellent  External Auditor because of the wording of the regulation.
71.6 NOW, Mr President, at present the regulation is delightfully vague and  therefore gives us room for manoeuvre. It simply says 'An External Auditor, who  shall be the Auditor-General (or an officer holding the equivalent title) of a  Member State, shall be appointed in the manner and for the period decided by the  General Conference'. My colleague, the Chairman of the Administrative Commission,  has pointed out that we do not need the amendment proposed by the Legal Committee  now to allow us to appoint an External Auditor for two years.
71.7 My own proposal, then, is that we appoint an External Auditor for two  years, thus reflecting the spirit of the amendment proposed by the Legal Com-  mittee, and decide to take up the matter again at the twenty-fifth session of the  General Conference, when questions such as those which I posed above, perhaps  with others - such as the question incompetence on the part of the incumbent  (action by the Executive Board would appear to be constitutionally admissible in  that case) - can all be discussed.
71.8 What I gather that the delegates of Canada and Icelanä are arguing,  Mr President, is that the whole issue requires careful consideration and that  therefore there is no need to make an amendment which will not take us any  further at this stage. Let us accept, then, in principle, let us resolve to  appoint the new External Auditor for two years. We could do that now today,  Mr President, and 7: am prepared to move so formally or to support a proposal by  the delegate of Iceland or the Chairman of the Administrative Commission,' and  resolve to return to this question and all the others at the twenty-fifth  session.
17.9 Finally, Mr President, may I raise a question about the Legal Committee?  A very big problem for the Committee is how far it 1s dealing with questions on a  legal and how far on a policy basis. Where does policy end or begin, and where do  legal considerations come in? Let us remember that very often, Mr President,  members of the Legal Committee are also members of delegations here, and you can-  not rule out considerations of policy. This is not a criticism. This is normal. I  simply wished to answer a question raised by a previous speaker as to whether  matters with legal implications should all go to the Legal Committee or not. I do  not support that view. We have a Legal Adviser who has representatives at every  commission meeting and any matter with legal implications that may come up are  referred to the Legal Adviser for legal advice. I do agree, however, that when it  comes to constitutional amendments , then such matters should indeed be reterred  to the Legal Committee.
77.10 Let me conclude by repeating my suggestion that, as the recommendation  before us does not answer the questions raised by the Australian-Canadian amend-  ment, but answers a question of authority that - to me at least - is self-evident  and fails to address itself to the other important question which I have men-  tioned, we should simply take note of the proposal of the Legal Committee for  amending Article 12.1 of the Financial Regulations; adopt as a resolution the  decision now to appoint the next External Auditor for two years in the first  instance; and ask the Executive Board to consider all the questions raised here  and report back to the General Conference at its twenty-fifth session. Thank you,  Mr President.
(78) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  has the floor.  I thank the delegate of Jamaica. The Chairwoman of the Legal Committee now
(79.1) Mrs KELLY (Argentina), Chairwoman of the Legal Committee (Translation from  the Spanish) :  Thank you, Mr President. I should like to respond to Mr Wynter's remarks to  the effect that the Legal Committee had apparently failed to provide an answer to the  problem which the amendment proposed by Australia and Canada to Article 12, para-  graph 1, of the Financial Regulations was trying to solve. I do not share his view.  The purpose of the Australian and Canadian amendment was to answer the following ques-  tion: what happens if the State of which the External Auditor is a national withdraws  from the Organization? - a concrete and practical problem which the Executive Board  addressed at the appropriate time, as Ms Ghose, the representative of India, pointed  out.
(79.2) As I see it, Mr President, the first part of the Legal Committee's proposal  is strictly in keeping with the present provision of Article 12, paragraph 1, when it  says that an External Auditor, who shall be the Auditor-General (or an officer holding  the equivalent title) of a Member State, shall be appointed in the manner decided by  the General Conference, for the purpose of auditing the accounts of the following
908    financial period. It is clear from this that the External Auditor is responsible for  auditing the accounts of the following financial period, after the period for which he  was appointed. But the meaning of the provision of Article 12, paragraph 1, of the  Financial Regulations is unchanged.
(79.3) As regards the specific problem to which the proposed amendment by Canada and  Australia refers, the Legal Committee attempted to resolve the situation in more  general terms, without referring to any specific instance. It is clearly for the  General Conference to appoint the External Auditor. What caused concern to the Legal  Committee is that the Executive Board would be exceeding the authority conferred upon  it by the Constitution if it were authorized - as it would be, under the Australian  and Canadian amendment - to appoint an acting External Auditor in the event of the  withdrawal of the Member State of which the External Auditor is a national, when we  already have a legal provision on that subject. '
(79.4) It is obvious, then, that, as the Committee's proposal stipulates, the  External Auditor must be appointed for two years. To this is added a provision which  we also considered useful: that, unless the General Conference decides otherwise, the  appointment of the External Auditor shall be renewed for another two financial  periods, making a total of six years. The problem is therefore solved for any case  which might arise, with the exception of a very special case, for which provision is  already made in paragraph 2 of Article 12, that is, in the event that the External  Auditor ceases to hold office as Auditor-General in his own country, in which case he  will be succeeded as External Auditor by the person succeeding him as Auditor-General.
(79.5) The new wording of Article 12, paragraph 1, proposed by the Committee really  solves all problems. If there is a Member State which withdraws, and if the External  Auditor is a national of that country, it follows clearly from this proposal that that  person shall remain in office until the next session of the General Conference, which  can then solve the problem. In this way, there is no confusion between the authority  of the General Conference and that of the Executive Board. It is clearly established  that the Executive Board does not and should not have the power to appoint an External  Auditor, whether acting or not. The Legal Comittee had this in mind when it submitted  its proposal, which is capable of solving all the problems that the Executive Board  itself has had to face so far in this matter. Thank you very much, Mr President.
(80) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you. The delegate of Argentina has the floor.
(81.1) Hr LANUS (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. The topic we are discussing arose from a proposed  amendment submitted by Canada and Australia. The matter was referred to the Legal Com-  mittee, which examined not only the amendment proposed by Canada and Aus'tralia, but  the issue in general, that is to say it considered the whole question of the appoint-  ment of the External Auditor. Diverse opinions were expressed in the Legal Committee  and they were considered by a working group chaired by Dr Solar. The working group's  proposal was finally endorsed by the Legal Committee and is now before us in document
(81.2) And so the proposed amendment is the fruit of a comprehensive examiiiation of  the question. For this reason I should like to make three comments.
(81.3) First of all, the amendment to Article 12, paragraph 1, of the Financial  Regulations does not merely answer the original preoccupations which prompted Canada  and Australia to submit their proposal, but is the result of an exercise in which  other alternatives were considered, including that which we now have before us and  which basically confirms the authority of the General Conference to appoint the  External Auditor and clarifies the length of his term of office, for which no pro-  vision had been made in the relevant paragraph of the Regulations. In my view, the  Legal Committee's proposal is most timely and relevant, precisely because at this Con-  ference we have to appoint an External Auditor - and this is another of the items  which this assembly has to consider. And the Legal Committee's proposal clarifies some  aspects of the matter which were not specified or were vague in the paragraph as it  stood previously.
(81.4) The Legal Committee's proposal is acceptable, and we consider that it does  not beg any other questions which other delegations had in mind when submitting amend-  ments to this same Article, such as those concerning the consequences of the with-  drawal of a Member State when the External Auditor was a national of that State. This  is not the point. The first amendment simply confirms the first original paragraph of  the Financial Regulations, adding a clarification as to the length of the term of  office of the External Auditor, which we consider highly relevant for the reasons I  have just given.
(81.5) We are of the view that it is the General Conference which has the authority  and competence to appoint the External Auditor. I would remind you that this question  was already discussed by the Executive Board two or three sessions ago, when the  specific question of the External Auditor of the United Kingdom arose. And on that  occasion it was clear (at least to the members of the Executive Board) that the Board  did not have the authority to replace the General Conference in appointing the  External Auditor.
(81.6) This is why, Mr President, I should like, in response to the concern  expressed by the delegation of Canada and by Mr Wynter, to point out that the Com-  mittee's proposal is without prejudice to any other questions, which may be discussed  if it is deemed necessary to expand this article. The article as submitted by the  Legal Committee is relevant; my delegation fully supports it and requests that it be  approved as it stands. Thank you very much.
(82) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you. The delegate of Canada has the floor.
83.1 Mr WILSON (Canada):  Thank you, Mr President. First of all, you have at this moment two  formal proposals before you. However, Mr Wynter's proposal has in fact encom-  passed my original suggestion and therefore, in order to facilitate the work of
29  plenary, I wish to withdraw my original proposal and to second that made by the  distinguished delegate of Jamaica, that is, that we take note of the report of  the Legal Committee with an expression of gratitude and that we decide to keep  the matter on the agenda for the next session of the General Conference so as to  allow time for the Executive Board to examine all the policy implications in the  light of the legal advice. That is one reason why I asked for the floor.
83.2 The second reason is that both the Chairwoman of the Legal Committee and  the distinguished delegate of India either passed remarks to the effect that they  did not understand the rationale of my original motion or said they wished to  have an explanation of why I found such serious difficulties with the proposal to  adopt this text this morning. And this is what I wish to address.
83.3 The fact is that, as Mr Wynter very astutely pointed out, the language  we are offered here is quite deficient in two ways. he retain the language in the  existing Article 12.1 by referring to an External Auditor 'who shall be the  Auditor-General of a Member State'. Now if we did not have those words, or if the  Legal Committee had advised us to delete them, the whole problem of an antinomic  conflict between the requirement to have an External Auditor appointed by the  General Conference and the requirement to have such a person also belonging to a  Member State would have been solved. But, in fact, as Mr Wynter pointed out, the  Legal Committee has not dealt with that problem, and i say this with the greatest  possible respect to Mrs Kelly, who has been assuring us that this formulation is  a perfect solution to al1 these legal problems. It happens that the Canadian  legal authorities take a completely different view: they say that, as long as  Article II.6 of the Coristitutiori stands as it is now written, as long as Meniber  States can give 12 months' notice arid leave on December 31 at the end of the  first year of a biennium, it is legally conceivable that the Organization might  end up with an External Auditor in the second year of a biennium who is not the  Auditor-General of a Member State.
83.4 However, this is really not the main issue. A great deal. of attention  has been given both by the Chairwoman of the Legal Committee and, I believe, by  the distinguished delegate of India to the jurisdictional question of whether or  not there should have been delegation of authority to the Executive Board. But in  my intervention I never said one word about that. I accepted rather that, as from  this session, nothing more is going to be heard, probably for at least two years,  on this question of contingency planning, some aspects of which could be dealt  with - but only some - if one were to delete the requirement that the Auditor-  General of a Member State should be provided. But there remain a whole range of  other problems to which Mr Wynter drew attention. There is more work yet to be  done in the view of my legal authorities. Bct i want to emphasize thcit we are not  here disputing or discussing or debating, or spending time flogging a dead horse,  or concerning ourselves with whether or not the question should ever have been  raised in the first place by Canada and Australia, i.e. that of looking at the  problem of finding an interim, a caretaker. Even in the report that is before us  we note that some members cf the Legal Committee very sensibly thought that what  the plenary should do is always appoint a back-up, a stand-by, a deputy, a  surrogbte. So these are issues on which Member States really need more time to  think; and when I say Member States I am talking about the legal authorities in  our 158 capitals.
83.5 So please let us not deflect our attention from the main issue, which is  what would happen, what would be the practical consequences if the suggestion of  the aistinguished delegate of Argentina were acted upon, if the Legal Committee's  advice were followed, and if this text were put into force today by a two-thirds  majority. Let me tell you what would happen. We would either be forced two years  from now to do the embarrassing thing of dislodging, displacing some External  Auditor chosen at this session for no other reason than that we want to start up  with a new man or woman for the next six years, or we would be tálking about  tampering with this language by instituting an eight-year term, or else we would  get out of synchronization with the Medium-Term Plan.
83.6 Now my specific remark to Mrs Ghose, the aistinguished delegate for  India, is this: Canada considers that, if as a matter of policy - and when I  speak of policy I am talking about matters on which the Administrative Commission  should be advising plenary in addition to the Legal Committee - we want the same  Auditor with no change ideally for six years at a time, then that six-year period  should coincide with the Medium-Term Plan and not start two years before it and  not end two years before it ends. Now I am not going to tdke the time of plenary  to explain why we think that is important, because everybody in the Administra-  tive Commission knows why it is important, and most people concerneà with the  Medium-Term Plan will probably realize what is important; but I owed that explan-  ation to Mrs Ghose so that she will not think that I am just being capricious.  And I am certainly not being a dog-in-the-manger, and I am not being a bad sport  or a poor loser because we saw the original Canadian and Australian draft resol-  ution go up in smoke. That is not the point. I am not defending the original
91 1    idea, anä I was not doing it earlier. I am saying that we could cause ourselves  serious embarrassment if, .in our haste to make some change here, change which we  do not ourselves see as justified, we saddle ourselves with language which, by  implication, prescribes six-year periods for External Auditors, after which there  is probably supposed to be a change, but that is not stated, we don't know. The  original Canadian proposal was faulted for being vague, but I have to say my  legal authorities have found a lot of vagueness in this particular text. But,  anyway, this is the explanation I owe to Mrs Kelly and to Mrs Ghose, that we will  be extremely uncomfortable if two thirds of this plenary were to insist on adopt-  ing this matter before it has been fully matured and studied and considered by  the Executive Board and by the Administrative Commission at the next session. As  Mr Isaksson said, it is too late now, but it will not be too late if we do it  again in two years' time.
83.7 Now I hope I have not sounded negative or critical; I am trying to put  all this in a positive light. From the day Article 11.6 is amended, the first  paragraph of the proposed text would unäoubtedly be perfectly acceptable if we  delete the words 'who shall be the Auditor-General of a Member State'. But the  second sentence of this proposal from the Legal Committee, it seems to us,  carries implications that fall so obviously within the mandate of the Administra-  tive Commission that the Canadian Üelegation would be extremely uncomfortable  about going ahead and proceeding in this way when there is no demonstrable need  to deviate from the perfectly adequate text of Article 12.1 of the Financial  Regulations as it stcrnds today, while waiting for Article 11.6 to be considered.  Thank you, Mr President.
(84) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much. I regret to inform YOU that the Secretariat has counted  the number of delegates present and that we do not have the quorum to continue this  meeting. I accordingly have to apply the provisions of Rule 69 of the Rules of Pro-  crciure. We shall therefore suspend the discussion and meet again at 3 p.m. to continue  our work in a new plenary meeting. I have taken due note of those who have already  requested the floor. The meeting stands adjourned.  La séance est levée à 13 heures  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.00