Cinquième séance plénière
19 octobre 1989, à 10 h 10  Président : M. ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaisie)  puis : M. MBOUI (Cameroun)  Fifth plenary meeting
19 October 1989 at 10.10 a.m.  President: Mr ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaysia)  later: Mr MBOUI (Cameroon)  Quinta sesion plenaria
145    MESSAGE AU GOUVERNEMENT ET AU PEUPLE DE CHINE APRES LE TREMBLEMENT DE TERRE DANS  CE PAYS/MESSAGE TO THE GOVERNMENT AND PEOPLE OF CHINA FOLLOWING THE EARTHQUAKE  IN THAT COUNTRY/MENSAJE AL GOBIERNO Y AL PUEBLO DE CHINA DESPUES DEL TEMBLOR DE  TIERRA EN ESE PAIS/  nOCnAHklEnPABklTEnb~YIIHAPOHYK~TAFIBCBII3kIC3EMJIETPIICEHEIEMB3TOZI~AHE  +II LA -LA &Il Jly;il ” WJ &-JI L3L Jl UL, %S
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, you Will have heard the news about the earthquake  in China this morning, and 1 believe you would wish me, on your behalf, to send  a telegram to the People's Republic of China conveying our deep sympathy and  sincere condolences to the families of the earthquake victims.
1.2 It is SO decided. Thank you.
1.3 1 give the floor to the delegate of China.
(2) M. ZHANG (Chine) (traduit du chinois) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Au nom de la délégation chinoise,  je remercie la Conférence générale et son Président pour le télégramme de condo-  léances adressé à mon pays. Je ne savais trop vous dire combien je suis touché.  Merci.  ARRIERES DE CONTRIBUTIONS (suite)  ARREARS IN CONTRIBUTIONS (continued)  CONTRIBUCIONES ATRASADAS (continuation)
3.1 The PRESIDENT:  Before we proceed with the general policy debate, I would like to  inform you that the Director-General has received a letter from Somalia invoking  the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph S(c), of the Constitution. The  Secretariat has also informed us that Somalia has made a payment in local  currency towards meeting its arrears in contributions. Do you concur with the  request of Somalia that it be permitted to Vote in accordance with paragraph
8(c) of Article 1V.C of the Constitution?
3.2 I see no objections. It is SO decided.  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuation)  OEX~EHHEBO~POCOBOS~E~~OJIMlMKM(IIPO~OJDKEHME)  (pli) bl.lLlI Ll$.dl -Lsiia  P&%R% ( sis )
4. The PRESIDENT:  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I now cal1 upon the Honourable  Geoffrey A. Henry, Prime Minister and head of the delegation of the Cook  Islands. You have the floor, Sir.
5.1 Mr HENRY (Cook Islands):  Mr President, distinguished delegates and observers, ladies and  gentlemen, let me first take this opportunity of conveying my thanks to the  distinguished head of the delegation of Nigeria and the distinguished head of  the delegation of the Republic of Korea for extending a warm welcome to the  three new members of this august Organization. We have travelled vast distances  at great expense to be here today and it warms the heart to know that there are  delegations that appreciate our presence in this large family.
5.2 We in the Cook Islands have long been cognizant of the fact that Unesco  is different from many other members of the United Nations family. Since the  Second World War, the United Nations has sired a wide range of specialized  organizations - organizations charged with particular tasks, such as improving  the world's food supply, regulating international transportation, and developing  industrial capabilities. The individual missions of such organizations,  therefore, tend to focus on problems afflicting mankind as it attempts to wrest  its daily bread from the sometimes uncooperative earth on which we live.
5.3 While not neglecting such matters, the fundamental mission of Unesco  may be seen as qualitatively distinct. It is set out in the preamble to the  Constitution; and the Director-General stated it well in his Introduction to the  Draft Medium-Term Plan: 'Unesco's purpose is fundamentally an ethical one. . . .  Within the United Nations system, Unesco is responsible for building the  defences of peace in the minds of men, on the foundations of development and  international co-operation in its spheres of competence'. From this perspective  then, and perhaps more than any other member of the United Nations f amily,  Unesco's mandate is to harness the power of ideas in the service of mankind.
5.4 Mr President, there cari be no true economic development, no lasting  amelioration of the problems burdening humanity, without addressing and  stimulating the innate potential of a nation's most precious resource, its  people. It is only by enhancing that potential that development cari truly be  realized and the world ultimately live in lasting peace. As we a11 appreciate,  that is the essential task of this Organization.
5.5 With that in mind, Mr President, 1 would like to take this opportunity  to offer a few comments on the future work programme and Medium-Term Plan of  Unesco from the perspective of not only one of the newest members of the  Organization but also one of the smallest. Given that there are few, if any,  Unesco activities that the Cook Islands would not endorse as meriting the  support of this Conference, may I simply canvass some of the major programmes,  themes and projects of the Organization, both current and proposed, that appear  most relevant to our own particular needs and interests.
5.6 There is, of course, no more fundamental means of developing the  potential of a country's people than through education, one of the major areas  of concern to Unesco. As for each of us gathered here today, the quality and  direction of education is of principal importance not only to the government,  but also to everyone living in the Cook Islands. The national educational system  having deteriorated markedly in the last decade, a task force on education was  established by my government upon assuming office on 1 February of this year.  The report of the task force is now to hand. It reveals that much work lies  ahead, not only to recover lost ground, but also to make our educational system  relevant to the needs of the next Century. Given that our schools are invariably  tiny by world standards, and widely dispersed over 13 inhabited islands and
1.2 million square miles of the South Pacifie, the task is daunting - to say the  very least.
5.7 It is from that perspective that the Cook Islands is greatly interested  in Programme 1.1, 'Towards basic education for all', and Mobilizing Project 1,  'Combating illiteracy through quality primary schooling'. We are committed to  uplifting the quality of education throughout the country by such measures as  improving the standard of primary and secondary school education through, for  example, teacher training; providing greater instruction in computer techniques,  both on the main island and in the outer islands; and increasing the  availability of reading materials for people of a11 ages in the Cook Islands  Maori, English and French languages. Given the critical shortage of funds for  educational activities and for improving the physical facilities of our  institutions, innovative means Will have to be found to overcome existing  constraints. In a11 respects, of course, the work of Unesco is especially  relevant, and we look forward to exploring potential areas of fruitful  co-operation.
5.8 Taken in its broadest sense, education as a means for enhancing human  Potential must include an understanding of the relationship between man and his  environment. In his Introduction to the Draft Medium-Term Plan, the  Director-General correctly identified protection of the environment as one of  the major challenges facing the world today, and he wisely observed that 'the  battle for the environment cannot be won unless it is based on a new ethic of  the relationship of human beings with nature, entailing rights, duties and  solidarity'. Towards that end, UnesCO would contribute to ensuring that 'the  functioning of the earth's ecosystems is better understood and respected and  that their resources are managed in a rational way'. Ultimately, of course, he  pointed out, the concept of 'sustainable' development sets mankind a crucial  task, namely 'to hand down to future generations a world capable of providing  the resources that they Will need'.
5.9 Mr President, the peoples of the insular South Pacifie have always  lived in an intimate relationship with the seas around them - seas which provide  not only their major source of sustenance, but which also hold the promise of  long-term wealth in the form of commercially exploitable living and non-living  marine resources. At the same time, the insular South Pacifie is one of the most  fragile environments on earth. A one-metre rise in sea level, for example, may  make half of our country uninhabitable, while pelagic drift-gillnet fishing may  cause irreparable damage to the ecological balance of the oceans and to our  basic food supply. Unesco is well placed to assist island States, including the  Cook Islands, in scientific research aimed at overcoming such problems, as well  as in formulating programmes for the protection and better utilization of our  marine resources for the sake of our children and of generations to corne. We  look forward to co-operating with the Organization in those matters and the Cook  Islands fully supports the proposed establishment of a South Pacifie regional  network on island marine research and traditional knowledge, as well as action  being taken to introduce marine science instruction into secondary-school  curricula in the region.
5.10 Mr President, the Cook Islands appreciates the close links between  culture and development, the importance of maintaining a cultural identity and  the protection of cultural values in a constantly changing world. There is a  growing appreciation among peoples and countries in the South Pacifie region  that expanded contact with the outside world over recent years is placing  ever-greater strains on indigenous value systems. Often, the result is an  increasing sense of unease or even social unrest, particularly among our Young  people, as they attempt to corne to terms with the heterogeneous world of today.  In the face of such problems, my government has recently established a Ministry  of Arts and Culture to facilitate and, where necessary, co-ordinate cultural  activities throughout the country.
5.11 In this regard, the Cook Islands looks forward to participating in  Unesco activities under the Plan of Action for the World Decade for Cultural  Development.  increase the  As 1 mentioned moments ago, for example, it is ourIi;;;;$ion to  availability of reading material in the Cook Maori  language. It is to be hoped that this would include the publication of Original  works produced by our own local writers. By the end of the year, the Cook  Islands Will have a television service for the first time. With it, it iS  planned to develop indigenous programming capabilities focusing on day-to-day  activities in our country.
5.12 The cornerstone of our national cultural programme is the construction  of a Cultural Centre and Museum on our main island. Funds are being sought for  the facilities, which Will house valuable assets of the Cook Islands cultural  heritage and where our people Will be able to go to watch and participate in  traditional dancing, singing, handicraft and other activities. It is hoped to  have the Centre and Museum constructed in time for the South Pacifie Festival of  Arts, which Will be hosted by the Cook Islands in 1992. The Festival, the  premier cultural event in the region, Will see gathered in the Cook Islands more  than 3,000 artists, dancers and other representatives from a11 countries and  territories in the South Pacifie. Planning is already well under way and it is  hoped that through Unesco it Will be possible to secure assistance for the  construction of the Cultural Centre and Museum and the hosting of the Festival.
5.13 As 1 indicated in my opening remarks, Unesco has a special role to play  in focusing on the human dimension of development. The Cook Islands, therefore,  welcomes the Organization's cal1 for a fresh approach to development and an  intrinsic link between culture and economic growth. At the same time, in our  view, any reconsideration of the concept of development in its multifaceted,  interrelated aspects must pay particular regard to the special features of  island micro-States and how development might be achieved given the special  resource constraints faced by the smallest members of the international  community.
5.14 With the admission of the Cook Islands and Kiribati to membership Of  Unesco, the total number of South Pacifie States in the Organization has risen  to eight. There is little doubt but that that number Will increase in the near  future. We would suggest, therefore, Mr President, that there would be great  benefit to Unesco in having a South Pacifie representative on the Executive  Board. For that reason, the Cook Islands heartily endorses the nomination of  Papua New Guinea as a member of the Board.
5.15 In the same way, the increased membership of South Pacifie States in  Unesco Will result in an expanded role for the Organization in developmental  activities in our region. The Director-General has observed that while 'UneSCO'S  Headquarters may be in Paris, . . . its theatre of operations is the world at  large'. The Cook Islands appreciates the Director-General's persona1 commitment
5  to assisting the smaller members of the Organization, and it is our sincere hope  that he Will be able in the very near future to identify means of strengthening  Unesco's South Pacifie Office so as to enhance the operations of the  Organization in our region. At the same time, we would welcome an opportunity to  work closely with him and the Secretariat in the formulation of detailed,  co-ordinated projects aimed at addressing in a comprehensive fashion the  multifarious problems shared by the South Pacifie Member States of this  Organization.
5.16 The work programme and Draft Medium-Term Plan provide a very useful  blueprint for action over the coming years. The Cook Islands looks forward to  working closely with the Secretariat in the implementation of the various  activities to be undertaken and it wishes the Director-General every success in  his endeavours. Thank you, Mr President.
6. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of the Cook Islands, and 1 cal1 on  H.E. Dr Fuad Hassan, Minister of Education and Culture and head of the  delegation of Indonesia.
7.1 Mr HASSAN (Indonesia):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, allow me on behalf of the Indonesian delegation  first and foremost to congratulate you most warmly, Mr President, on your  election to the highest office of our Organization, a most distinguished and  challenging position indeed. Indonesia knows His Excellency Mr Anwar Ibrahim of  Malaysia very well as a very vigorous and wise leader, qualifications which, 1  am sure, Will be reflected in his leadership of our Conference.
7.2 Mr President, 1 also wish to congratulate Mr Federico Mayor, the  Director-General of our Organization, who is acting in that capacity for the  first time at our General Conference.
7.3 With the assistance of the Secretariat and the guidance provided by the  decisions of the able and wise Executive Board, he has prepared a 1 1. the  documents for our discussions during the present twenty-fifth session. The  documents enable us to examine the various major as well as minor issues with  easy access to the relevant information. My heartfelt thanks to a11 who have  made our task in this session much easier.  Ï.4 While leaving comments on specific issues to  delegation in the programme commissions,  the members of my
1 would like to place on record that  the Indonesian delegation is in general agreement with the meticulously prepared  Draft Programme and Budget for 1990-1991. The relevant programme resolutions,  carefully prepared by the Secretariat, are on the whole acceptable to the  Indonesian delegation.
7.5 We note with much satisfaction that education is still the focus of  attention of our collective efforts. This is also in accord with the agreement  on priority areas for future Unesco actions in Asia and the Pacifie reached by  the Advisory Committee on Regional Co-operation in Education in Asia and the  Pacifie which held its fifth session in Yogyakarta, Indonesia, a little more  than a month ago.
7.6 In Indonesia itself we have concentrated our national efforts during  the last two decades on the expansion of educational facilities to provide  access to education for at least a11 children of primary-school age. We are now  embarking on efforts to raise the standard of our education and to ensure better  relevance to the needs of growing children and adolescents,  communities and the nation in the throes of modernization.  the changing
7.7 A few months ago, Indonesia acquired a comprehensive Law of the  National System of Education, incorporating general regulations for school as  well as out-of-school education, for education from the pre-school to the higher  education level, for public as well as private institutions of education, and  for practically a11 branches of education, including civics and religious  education. The Law prescribes, inter alia, a six-plus-three-year programme in  basic education instead of a six-year programme.
7.8 The vast field of science and technology has always  Indonesia's attention,  captured  for it is well aware of the utility of science and  technology in bringing about a general improvement in the quality of life of its  citizens through the development of capabilities and the exploitation of natural  resources. Unesco has contributed significantly to the dissemination of
149    scientific information and Indonesia, as one of the beneficiaries, fully  supports the Organization's science programmes and Will continue to participate  actively in its science and technology activities.
7.9 Indonesia, being a nation with a great variety of cultures, certainly  supports Unesco's cultural programmes as well,  preservation of  especially with respect to the  the cultural heritage and the  creativity.  encouragement of cultural  More Will be said about this in the last part of my statement.
7.10 With respect to the communication programme, we reiterate our view that  Indonesia readily promotes the free flow of information, provided that  information is disseminated in a responsible way and is free from distortion and  disproportion. The electronic media, such as radio, television, film and video,  in addition to the older printed media,  intellectual  offer great possibilities for widening  horizons on an increasing scale. Much more information and  knowledge now becomes accessible to many more categories of people who in the  past, without modern technology, would not have had access to the information  and knowledge disseminated through the use of modern communication technology.  But, particularly in countries where cultures, socio-economic conditions and  political systems are different from those of the home country of the  transmitting agencies, certain types of information may have detrimental effects  on progress. Such a situation demands a great sense of responsibility with  respect to the possible consequences of the flow of certain types of information.
7.11 Indonesia therefore supports a11 programmes which strengthen national  capacities to disseminate information and knowledge, but would like to see some  basic problems in communication across national boundaries resolved.
7.12 Mr President, allow me now to express my concern about the problem of  cultural differences in co-operation among nations. We have been and are still  concerned with the negatively discriminatory behaviour or practices of some  countries. In fact, Unesco has a special programme for this purpose, defined as  'the promotion of human rights and the elimination of colonialism and racism'.  But we may not be sufficiently aware of a more subtle phenomenon, namely the  negative consequences of ethnocentrism in various co-operative undertakings.
7.13 As an international organization, Unesco is expected to be of benefit  to a11 of its Member States. It was established in response to a real demand for  co-operation among nations in promoting the development of education, science  and culture. Co-operation requires active relationships among participating  Member States.
7.14 However, we cannot ignore the fact that in reality there is an  imbalance in the distribution of available resources among Member States which  very much influences relationships among the participating nations.
7.15 Superior educational, economic, technological and political resources  are available in some Member States while resources are scarce in others.
7.16 Furthermore, programmes of co-operation among unequally endowed  countries and assistance to lesser endowed countries also exist outside the  framework of Unesco's programmes.
7.17 1 submit that Unesco has been established and is being maintained not  only to administer its own programmes but also to exercise its influence on a11  major educational, cultural and scientific problems, whether specifically part  of a given Unesco programme or entirely outside its sphere of operation.
7.18 Bilateral as well as multilateral relations among participating nations  naturally also involve cultural matters, at least with respect to the values and  norms which are held to be the terms of reference for evaluation activities.
7.19 The world has changed tremendously since the end of the Second World  War. Unesco, and the United Nations system in general, was set up to preserve  and promote people's faith in the active fellowship of a11 the nations of the  world. New nations have now corne to the fore.
7.20 Many of those who were ignorant in the less-developed countries in the  past have acquired opportunities to become competent administrators and  intellectually creative scientists and scholars. The capacity of indigenous  experts and administrators critically to evaluate ideas and development  programmes in the less-developed countries  last decades.  has increased significantly in the
7.21 The capacity critically to evaluate the performance of foreign experts  has also improved. Whereas foreign experts could previously propose the adoption
5  of ideas for programmes in the less-developed countries without encountering  significant criticism of their suggestions, indigenous experts have emerged in  most of these countries in the last decades, not infrequently with better  educational qualifications than the foreign experts, with the capacity to  evaluate newly introduced ideas and proposals for developmental efforts.
7.22 In view of these changes, the nature of the relationship between  experts in the more developed, and their counterparts in the less-developed  countries deserves to be reviewed.
7.23 Permit me to draw some of these problems to your attention. One of them  is the tendency to impose the cultural values of the more developed countries on  the lesser developed countries.
7.24 Then there is the tendency to impose administrative arrangements  followed in the more developed countries on the less-developed countries, for  example, the insistence on seeking equivalences for the academic diplomas and  degrees of the more developed countries which are viewed as the standards, while  in reality great variations in academic quality may exist among the institutions  of higher education in the developed countries concerned.
7.25 Then there is the tendency to utilize educational, scientific and  cultural relations to promote the economic interests of the more economically  developed countries. This type of economic mechanism plunges the less-developed  countries, without their being aware of their plight, into dependency vis-à-vis  the more developed countries and does not liberate them from the effective  control of the latter.
7.26 And finally - although this of course does not exhaust the list of  problems which we are faced with - there is the involvement of intellectual  entrepreneurs who work with unrealistic ideas which they cannot get accepted or  implemented in their own countries but which they impose on other countries  where the capacity to assess these ideas is not yet sufficiently developed. Some  years later, after the adoption of the relevant idea and its implementation with  the utilization of the scarce resource available, the adoption of the idea does  not in fact produce the expected result, because some of the crucial determining  factors have not been taken into consideration. Implementation of an idea  introduced in such a way has thus become an unfortunate waste of scarce  resources.
7.27 It is especially frustrating for local experts to hear in a workshop,  seminar or conference foreign experts criticizing the idea which they themselves  introduced a few years earlier and which was adopted in good faith by the local  experts and administrators for implementation and nation-wide dissemination.
7.28 In view of these admittedly human frailties, which nevertheless cari and  need to be remedied, 1 appeal for better awareness of cultural problems in  co-operation in education, science, culture, and communication among our  different nations.
7.29 Let me assure you that it is not my intention to minimize the  importance of co-operation between the more developed countries and the  less-developed countries in the fields of education, science, culture and  communication. Such co-operation is practically a must. However, co-operative  relationships ought to result in mutually beneficial partnerships rather than in  dependency relationships.
7.30. Mr President, having made those critical remarks concerning  ethnocentric aspects in some of the relationships between experts of the more  developed countries and their counterparts of the less-developed countries,  allow me now to report on some of the activities undertaken or to be undertaken  within the framework of the World Decade for Cultural Development, a Unesco  programme dear to a11 of us.
7.31 1 am pleased to report that in Indonesia the commencement of the Decade  has been formally and enthusiastically proclaimed by H.E. President Soeharto  himself. TO facilitate joint decision-making and effective co-operation among  the relevant government agencies, a National Committee, chaired by the  Co-ordinating Minister for People's Welfare and also involving, in addition to  the Minister of Education and Culture, the Ministers of Home Affairs, of Foreign  Affairs, of Information and of Post, Telecommunication and Tourism, has been set  up to assume responsibility for the planning and implementation of programmes of  the Decade.
7.32 Among the major programmes, special mention should be made here of the  plan to convene a National Congress of Culture where writers, artists,
151    philosphers, educators, scientists, scholars, politicians, and administrators  would be able to discuss what they regard to be cultural issues and, it is  hoped, to reach some kind of consensus on the content of our necessarily  diversified national cultural policy for our further national development  endeavour. TO ensure the greatest relevance in the discussion which Will be held  in the National Congress of Culture, in accordance with our democratic  principle, preliminary discussions on cultural issues at the provincial level  have been held in each of our twenty-seven provinces.
7.33 Indonesia's active participation in Unesco Silk Roads project is of  course, of a more international nature. A mobile seminar on the historically  important silk route which is to depart from Venice Will also sail through the  waters of our Indonesian Archipelago and anchor in the harbour of the City of  Surabaya in January 1991.
7.34 The Government of Indonesia has also accepted responsibility for  hosting the meeting of chairmen of the national committees for the World Decade  for Cultural Development in Asia and the Pacifie, which Will be held on the  island of Bali in mid-June 1990, coinciding with the commencement of the very  attractive and elaborate Bali Art Festival.
7.35 Finally, Mr President, on behalf of the Government of Indonesia, 1  would like to renew Indonesia's pledge of continued support for Unesco, our  universal organization of hope and of action to achieve a better future for  mankind. Thank you very much.
8. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Indonesia and now cal1 upon  H.E. Mr Bernhard Neugebauer, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and head of the  delegation of the German Democratic Republic.
9.1 Mr NEUGEBAUER (German Democratic RePublic):  Mr President, permit me to congratulate you on your election to this  high office and to wish you every success in the fulfilment of your noble task  of guiding the Conference along a constructive course. I cari assure you of the  full support of my delegation. At the same time, 1 wish to express my  delegation's high appreciation to the Director-General for the dedication he has  shown in the discharge of his lofty duties.
9.2 Taking account of the Rules of Procedure and the time-limit set, my  delegation considers it appropriate in the general policy debate to address four  subjects which, in its view, involve issues of basic concern to the  Organization. Members of the delegation Will take the opportunity to comment in  greater detail on these and other substantive matters and individual aspects in  the commissions and to make relevant proposals or submit draft resolutions.
9.3 My first point concerns Unesco's position in the world. The United  Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization is a forum for  dialogue, purposeful co-operation and understanding among States having  different social systems, diverse civilizations and complex development  problems. The construction of the defences of peace in the minds of men - to use  the words of the preamble to the Constitution - is a matter of the highest  relevance in the nuclear age. This premiss of peace was formulated in the wake  of the Second World War, the declaration of which 50 years ago was recently  commemorated. The memory of Hitlerite Germany's criminal invasion of Poland,  which marked the beginning of the bloodiest and most devastating war in history,  is a reminder to us to do everything in our power to ensure that war Will be  banished forever from the lives of nations. More than ever before peace today is  a sine qua non of human existence.
9.4 Within the United Nations system, Unesco has a mission to fulfil.  Experience shows that the Organization is able to give major impulses, salve  practical problems and contribute to progress in the world. As a result, its  role in international relations is growing. My country identifies itself with  this growing role, is in favour of strengthening Unesco along with the whole of  the United Nations system and rejects a11 attempts to destabilize the  Organization or its Member States.
9.5 The global problems of humanity cari be solved only through concerted  efforts to reach agreed solutions and a common Will to achieve them. In this  endeavour we feel at one with a11 forward-looking forces. The Declaration of the  Heads of State and Government of Non-Aligned Countries, adopted at their ninth  summit conference in Belgrade, emphasizes the complexity of these tasks as well  as the important role falling to the United Nations system in this endeavour.  This view, which we share, is also reflected in the active contribution of the  developing countries to the definition of priorities for the work of the
152    Organization in the 1990s. The imbalance between developing and industrial  countries must not be allowed to keep on growing. The German Democratic Republic  advocates a further intensification of co-operation in the framework of Unesco  for the benefit of the developing countries. In this context, my country has  done what it cari by rendering assistance worth about 2.2 thousand million marks  to developing countries in 1988, for example. This cornes to 0.64 per cent of our  country's gross national product. In that year more than 16,200 Young people  from developing countries received specialized training in the German Democratic  Republic. Let me point in this respect to interregional co-operation, which is  gaining ever greater significance in Unesco, since this further improves the  chances of jointly solving specific tasks.
9.6 1 shall now turn to my second point. It is a significant task of the  twenty-fifth session of the General Conference to take decisions on the strategy  to be followed by the Organization until far into the 1990s. Continuity and  innovation are the hallmarks of Unesco's steady development, ensuring that it  fulfils its mission and helps to solve the problems facing humanity. Proceeding  from that concept, the delegation of the German Democratic Republic associates  itself with the consensus recommendations of the Executive Board on the new  Medium-Term Plan, which confronts the three major challenges of our time -  peace, development and environmental protection. Al1 the regional groups  contributed their legitimate interests to the recommendations formulated by the  Executive Board at its 131st session concerning the Draft Plan. Al1 those  involved in the drafting of the decision submitted constructive proposais and  made concessions in order to reach this consensus.
9.7 It should therefore form the basis for the debates and decisions of the  General Conference on the third Medium-Term Plan, particularly as this Will be  essential to the successful completion of our work. Besides concentration on  priorities, the harmonization of projects inside and outside the Organization  and interdisciplinarity, a balanced consideration of the interests of a11 groups  of States - a concern emphatically supported by my country - is decisive for the  success of the Plan.
9.8 My third point relates to the Draft Programme and Budget for 1990-1991  and the guidelines for the 1992-1993 programme. As a means of implementing the  strategic concept of the six-year Plan, the Draft Programme and Budget for
1990-1991 does not, in our view, adequately reflect its objectives and tasks in  a11 fields. My delegation Will propose concrete amendments to the draft in the  commissions. Let me at this point put forward some general ideas on this score.
9.9 The role of the National Commissions as the most effective instruments  for the implementation of the Organization's objectives should be reflected more  clearly in the documents. The strengthening of the commissions and the full  utilization of their potential Will enhance the effectiveness of the work of  Unesco. We welcome therefore, the inclusion of an item on this subject in the  agenda of the Conference.
9.10 We fully agree with the Organization's ambitious projects in pursuit of  tangible progress in the elimination of illiteracy. However, activities  concerning education for international understanding and peace are not  adequately reflected in either conceptual or budgetary terms. The German  Democratic Republic advocates resolute adherence to a policy of comprehensively  applying the 1974 Recommendation concerning Educaton for International  Understanding, Co-operation and Peace and Education Relating to Human Rights and  Fundamental Freedoms, and taking greater account, in implementing the programme,  of the Recommendation's interdisciplinary character. This is also the purpose of  the draft resolution submitted by my country on the matter.
9.11 We believe that the reduction in activities relating to the link  between education and the world of work, and to vocational and adult education,  is unjustified. The results of the International Congress on the Development of  Technical and Vocational Education, held in Berlin in 1987, emphasize the  increased interest of Member States in international co-operation in this field.  The German Democratic Republic advocates the adoption of the Draft Convention on  Technical and Vocational Education by the General Conference at the present  session. Furthermore, recalling the recommendations adopted at the second  International Conference of Ministers and Senior Officiais Responsible for  Physical Education and Sport, held in Moscow in 1988, we would appreciate it if  this subject-matter were given more room in the programme and budget.
9.12 We welcome the fact that under Major Programme Area II, 'Science for  progress and the environment', comprehensive natural science programmes are  being continued and due importance attached to basic sciences and kw  technologies. We would like to see a separate programme, at least in the longer  term, in the field of biotechnology. We have submitted a draft resolution on  this subject.
9.13 The German Democratic Republic supports such key culture policy  activities as the continued consideration of the cultural dimension of  development, the promotion of creativity, participation in cultural life, the  enrichment of cultural identities, the preservation of the natural and cultural  heritage of humankind, the intensification of international co-operation and the  promotion of mutual knowledge of civilizations and peoples. The principles and  recommendations adopted by the World Conference on Cultural Policies held in  Mexico City should play a greater role in the conceptual and operational work of  the Organization.
9.14 The German Democratic Republic considers that the World Decade for  Cultural Development should be reflected in broad intersectoral terms in the  draft programme. From the many proposals for joint projects developed in the  Europe region alone, we Can clearly see that the Decade cari be a driving force  for international cultural co-operation. This experience could also be of  benefit in interregional contacts. We hope that the Secretariat of Unesco Will  give even more tangible impetus to the Decade.
9.15 In the fields of information and communication Unesco should make sure  that the new technologies rapidly evolving in this sphere are put to use in the  interests of peace, development and the protection of the environment. This  includes measures to achieve a balanced exchange of information. The German  Democratic Republic would like to see Unesco serve as a forum for an unbiased  and constructive dialogue on key aspects of information and communication.  Despite - or precisely because of - what are often serious differences of  opinion on these matters, such a dialogue cari and must lead to better mutual  appreciation of the various positions and help gradually to identify areas of  common interest and potential co-operation. In a spirit of solidarity, the  German Democratic Republic fully understands and supports the objectives pursued  by the non-aligned countries in this area, including the establishment of a just  and democratic world information and communication order.
9.16 We hold the view that strengthening the social and human sciences as an  independent scientific subject with interdisciplinary appeal is a good  starting-point for'the development of new thinking regarding the solution of  global problems. In this context, a concept should be worked out for the  contribution of the social and human sciences on the basis of an analysis of  social change throughout the world. This includes the social implications of  scientific and technological progress, the ethical responsibility of scientists,  artists and journalists as well as the laying down of an intellectual groundwork.
9.17 We note that significant basic concerns have been taken into account in  Major Programme Areas VI and VII. The debate envisaged on the role Of human  resources in relation to sustainable development Will enrich the theoretical and  practical aspects of this field, which is SO important for a11 States. In the  process of implementing Major Programme Area VII, which is dedicated in  particular to Unesco's intellectual mission for peace and understanding,  priority should be given to the creation of a philosophy of peace, the further  shaping of human rights and of the rights of peoples, as well as to fhe StrUggle  against lingering evils like racism, Fascism, neo-Fascism and apartheid.
9.18 With regard to the budget for 1990-1991, the ceiling should be  determined according to the principle of strict economy. Expenditures on  personnel and administrative services should be set at such levels that more  financing Will be available for programme activities. When planning for the  effects of inflation and exchange rate fluctuations, tare should be taken nOt to  place an undue burden on Member States.
9.19 We take critical note of the fact that since the twenty-fourth session  of the General Conference no progress has been made in ensuring a balanced  geographical distribution of the Secretariat staff and of consultants and  experts.
9.20 My delegation believes that it should be emphasized in connection with  the guidelines for the biennial programme for 1992-1993 that the experience  gained during the 1990-1991 biennium should be used as a basis, and that  attention should be given to the necessary measure of continuity and innovation,  following a realistic analysis of the level attained. We accept the proposa1 to  sum up the positions of Member States on the basis of a sketch prepared by the  Director-General instead of holding separate consultations on the preparation of  the biennial programme for 1992-1993. For this purpose, account should be taken  of the proposals submitted during the present session of the General Conference  as well as of the recommendations made by other conferences. We regard the  intergovernmental councils as appropriate and qualified forums for the  formulation of project proposals for the 1992-1993 biennium.
9.21 My fourth -point relates to the role of the National Commissions for  Unesco. The delegation of the German Democratic Republic holds the view that the  time has corne to attach far greater importance to the National Commissions, both  at the national level and in the framework of the Organization's work. Far more  than is SO far realized, these Commissions have potentialities for implementing  Unesco's basic strategic guidelines as outlined in the third Medium-Term Plan.  Let me, in this connection, refer to the tenth Regional Conference of National  Commissions for Unesco in the Europe region, which took place in Berlin in April
1989. The resolutions and recommendations of that conference are well known.  Likewise we are very appreciative of the recommendations and suggestions of  other regional conferences of National Commissions.
9.22 The Berlin Conference was marked by the desire, for the benefit of  Unesco, to find constructive solutions and point the way to specific activities.  In their final report the participants in the Conference renewed by consensus  their commitment to Unesco as an indispensable forum for international dialogue,  intellectual co-operation and the exchange of experience. They emphatically  stressed that regional co-operation also necessitates co-operation with a11 the  other regions, i.e. that co-operation must not be concentrated in Europe alone  but should be of an international nature.
9.23 It is the obligation of a11 Member States, the Secretariat and in  particular the Director-General actually to bring these resources to bear on  Unesco's effort to meet the challenges facing it. In concert with many other  National Commissions of the Europe region and beyond, my delegation Will submit  a draft resolution aimed at enhancing co-operation in Europe and improving  interregional interaction. We regard this as an important step towards the  better harnessing of the potentialities of the Europe region for the benefit of  the Organization as a whole, and at the same time as a contribution to security  and co-operation in Europe in the framework of the CSCE process.
9.24 Mr President, peace, understanding and co-operation have always been  cornerstones of my country's foreign policy. Today the world undoubtedly  possesses the intellectual and material potential to guarantee a11 individuals a  peaceful life worthy of human beings. However, vast resources are still being  wasted on armaments. Hatred and violence, hunger and poverty still exist. On the  other hand, a swing from confrontation to détente is emerging. It is a great  challenge to mankind to enhance this trend and make it irreversible. Thus new  opportunities are arising for Unesco, while its responsibility is growing. Only  the common resolve of a11 States to co-operate effectively Will enable us to  make possible a life marked by secure peace and human dignity for this  generation and those to corne. Al1 States and peoples are called upon to make  their contribution to this goal. Universality includes the right to and the duty  of participation. No State may stay aloof from this. The positive stock-taking  which we were able to carry out a few days ago on the occasion of the fortieth  anniversary of the German Democratic Republic also covered our educational,  scientific and cultural achievements.
9.25 In the German Democratic Republic the roots of Fascism were extirpated  once and for all. What guides us in both word and deed is that war shall never  again spring from German soil. We emphatically reject a11 forms of revanchism,  neo-Fascism and hatred among nations. However, what is needed if we are to live  peacefully and beneficially together is adherence to the principles of  international law and respect for sovereign equality and non-interference in the  interna1 affairs of other States. A dynamic economy, material security and a  policy of peace and détente also guarantee that the German Democratic Republic  Will in future remain a factor of stability in Europe and the world, and Will  live up to its responsibility for the safeguarding of peace and co-operation.
9.26 Let me assure you, Mr President, that the German Democratic Republic  Will participate constructively along these lines in the work of the  twenty-fifth session of the General Conference of the United Nations  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. 1 thank you, Mr President.
10. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of the German Democratic Republic,  and 1 cal1 on H.E. Mr Roberto Carneiro, Minister of Education and head of the  delegation of Portugal, to take the floor.
11.1 M. CARNEIRO (Portugal)  (discours prononcé en portugais ; texte français fourni  par la délégation) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président  du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général de l'unesco, Mesdames et Mes-  sieurs les chefs de délégation, Mesdames, Messieurs, au nom du gouvernement por-  tugais, je tiens tout d'abord à vous saluer, Monsieur le Président, et à vous
155    féliciter pour votre élection, qui nous réjouit tout particulièrement : en effet,  le Portugal entretient avec la Malaisie des rapports d'amitié et de coopération,  notamment sur le plan culturel, qui sont d'autant plus étroits qu'il existe à  Malacca une communauté d'origine portugaise qui parle notre langue et garde des  liens profonds avec notre civilisation et notre culture. Je veux également vous  saluer, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, professeur José Israel Vargas,  et vous dire combien j'apprécie votre action éminente à l'unesco, au nom de mon  pays, peuple frère du Brésil, qui parle la même langue et avec lequel le Portugal  conserve des relations privilégiées. A vous, Monsieur le Directeur général de  l'Unesc0, je présente les meilleures salutations de mon gouvernement, en vous  manifestant l'estime et l'appui du Portugal pour les efforts que vous déployez  afin de mener à bon terme les réformes nécessaires au renouveau de 1'Unesco et à  son retour à sa vocation d'universalité.
11.2 Mesdames, Messieurs, au moment de m'adresser à la Conférence générale,  réunie pour sa vingt-cinquième session, je ne peux manquer de me faire l'écho,  au nom du Gouvernement portugais, de deux positions de principe essentielles  concernant l'Organisation : en premier lieu, la réaffirmation de notre engagement  sans réserve au sein de l'unesco, en vertu de l'importance indiscutable de son  rôle et de ses objectifs, dans un contexte d'interdépendance et de coopération  mondiale accrues ; en second lieu, la réaffirmation de notre souhait de voir se  poursuivre les efforts de restructuration de l'Unesco, de façon à mieux s'ajuster  à des réalités toujours en mouvement et à surmonter définitivement les problèmes  qui ont affecté l'Organisation dans un passé récent. A cet égard, le Portugal  garde toujours l'espoir de voir revenir au sein de 1'Unesco des pays amis, dont  nous considérons la présence indispensable dans le concert des nations.
11.3 Mesdames, Messieurs, les documents dont l'analyse nous est proposée en  cette occasion montrent, à la vérité, la dimension de l'effort à réaliser dans  une nouvelle décennie : celle des années 90 qui s'ouvre maintenant. Le Programme  et budget pour 1990-1991 doit donc être considéré comme un instrument d'applica-  tion du troisième Plan à moyen terme (1990-1995), préparé simultanément, et ces  deux documents doivent être pris comme des points de référence essentiels,  redonnant un souffle et une nouvelle respiration à l'Unesc0 pour toute la  décennie, dans laquelle ils s'insèrent et qu'ils inaugurent. Ainsi, plus que  jamais, c'est le moment opportun pour réfléchir profondément - aussi bien ici  même, dans cette réunion, que dans le travail de tous les jours de l'organisa-  tion - et pour sélectionner les priorités, pour corriger les stratégies, clari-  fier les objectifs et concentrer les moyens, afin de pouvoir asseoir et orienter  de façon durable et solide nos activités et leurs effets sur cet horizon temporel  lointain et, à plusieurs titres, décisif.
11.4 On assiste aujourd'hui, de tous côtés, à de profonds bouleversements et  à une intense manifestation d'aspirations positives, dans les divers continents,  qui tendent toutes vers la paix et la liberté, vers l'affermissement et la  concrétisation de ces deux grandes ambitions de l'humanité. Aussi, quand tout  nous conduit à être beaucoup plus optimistes sur l'avenir proche du monde et des  relations entre les peuples, 1'Unesco ne peut manquer d'être sensible à ces  transformations en cours et à la nécessité de les accompagner et de les soute-  nir, dans ses domaines d'activité propres. C'est que ce sont, en outre, des do-  maines privilégiés et des thèmes chers à l'Organisation (l'éducation, la culture,  la communication, la science, les droits de l'homme), qui conditionnent en pro-  fondeur le rythme d'avancement et le degré de consolidation d'idéaux et de  valeurs aussi importants que la paix et la liberté.
11.5 La décennie qui se profile est pour nous celle de l'éducation et de la  culture, étant donné que ce sont là les deux facteurs stratégiques de compréhen-  sion des peuples et du rapprochement des nations ; ce sont également deux do-  maines dans lesquels nous pourrons apporter des contributions plus décisives pour  accompagner une époque aussi prometteuse pour les relations mondiales et pour  asseoir sur des bases solides un avenir de liberté et de paix pour l'humanité.  Voilà le sentiment du Gouvernement portugais qui, sur le plan national, développe  une réforme de l'éducation d'une très vaste portée et fait des efforts sans pré-  cédent d'investissement dans le facteur humain, considéré comme une variable  stratégique de plus en plus décisive de développement des nations et de progrès  équilibré.
11.6 Mesdames, Messieurs, pour détailler un peu plus, je commencerai par  l'éducation. Je voudrais tout d'abord réaffirmer ici l'adhésion du Portugal à la  résolution adoptée à la session précédente, qui concerne l'élimination de l'anal-  phabétisme d'ici à l'an 2000, car il s'agit là d'un fléau qui dans une large  mesure conditionne tout le reste. Cependant, dans ce domaine, l'expérience  internationale recommande de ne pas isoler les efforts mis en oeuvre par l'Orga-  nisation, mais de les insérer dans un processus global visant à améliorer la  qualité des systèmes d'enseignement et à assurer une éducation de base à tous.
11.7 Ainsi, à mon sens, cinq priorités sont à envisager. Premièrement,  l'élargissement et la généralisation de la scolarité de base. Deuxièmement,  l'amélioration de la qualité de l'enseignement de base, en gardant à l'esprit  qu'il est nécessaire d'articuler et de renforcer toutes les composantes - sans  exception - de la formation : formation cognitive, formation affective, formation  psychomotrice et formation personnelle et sociale, dans le cadre d'un processus  éducatif ouvert aux valeurs humanistes et universelles. Troisièmement, la promo-  tion de la réussite scolaire. Il convient ici de mentionner que le Portugal a  entrepris depuis deux ans de développer dans ce domaine un vaste programme inter-  ministériel, dont les résultats, évalués récemment par une mission de 1'Unesco  peuvent être considérés, dès à présent, comme très prometteurs. En outre, mon  pays aura l'honneur d'accueillir en 1991 une conférence internationale de  l'unesco sur ce thème qui intéresse tous les pays. Quatrièmement, l'enseignement  des langues, qui est une condition essentielle de communication et un facteur  toujours plus important dans un monde de plus en plus ouvert ; une vaste réforme  des programmes est d'ailleurs en cours dans notre pays. Enfin, étant donné qu'il  importe aussi de combattre et d'éviter ce que nous pouvons appeler l'"analphabé-  tisme professionnel", il faut porter une attention accrue aux axes professionnels  et de qualification à l'intérieur du système éducatif, que ce soit dans le cadre  de la formation générale, ou dans la promotion de modèles de réponse décentra-  lisés et modulables, adaptés à la diversité du tissu social et des réalités éco-  nomiques locales. Dans cette optique, le Portugal applique peu à peu une nouvelle  philosophie de la formation, à travers la dissémination d'un réseau d'écoles  professionnelles, dont les principaux promoteurs sont les autorités locales et  les agents économiques, réseau étroitement lié au système d'enseignement général.
11.8 Dans le cadre de la science, j'aimerais souligner trois grandes préoccu-  pations. Tout d'abord, ce qui doit être un objectif permanent : l'établissement  de liens stratégiques entre le développement scientifique et le développement de  l'enseignement supérieur, particulièrement en faveur des jeunes cadres au niveau  postuniversitaire, parallèlement au travail des institutions et agences spécia-  lisées. Ensuite, le renforcement de domaines stratégiques de coopération scien-  tifique, l'accent étant mis sur les domaines des technologies de la communica-  tion, de la génétique, des ressources naturelles, des sciences de la mer et des  sciences de l'homme. Enfin, il incombe à 1'Unesco de stimuler au sein de toute  la communauté scientifique une réflexion éthique sur la science et le progrès  moral.
11.9 Quant à la culture, la priorité nous semble se situer sur deux plans.  D'un côté, le renforcement des grands espaces d'identité culturelle au moyen  d'une recherche plus approfondie de ses fondements et de la diffusion de ceux-ci.  D'un autre côté, la valorisation des creusets dans lesquels convergent et  s'étalent divers affluents culturels de source ou d'expression identiques et  qui, parce qu'ils constituent des zones privilégiées d'interface et d'intense  métissage culturel, possèdent la dynamique naturelle d'un "locus", c'est-à-dire  d'un lieu grégaire et d'un lien puissant de rapprochement, de rencontre et de  solidarité entre les peuples. En fait, un monde toujours plus ouvert et où la  communication de masse ne cesse de s'amplifier risque d'amener une perte de  caractère dans les relations interculturelles et d'affaiblir le pluralisme des  cultures qui est une des plus grandes richesses du patrimoine de l'humanité.  D'un côté, nous avons la réaction naturelle de vouloir préserver les facteurs  d'identité propres à chaque communauté ; d'un autre côté, nous nous trouvons  face à l'exigence d'un monde sans cesse plus communicant, plus étroit et plus  solidaire. Pour cela, il nous faut savoir distinguer et valoriser ces lignes et  ces espaces qui, pour des raisons d'ordre historique et linguistique, constituent  des voies puissantes d'interpénétration et de métissage culturel partout dans le  monde, entrecroisant véritablement des peuples et des cultures en un processus  d'enrichissement réciproque qui jaillit du terrain, au lieu et place d'hégémonies  de masse réductrices qui mèneraient à un appauvrissement global.
11.10 Enfin, quant à l'information, nous n'hésitons pas à affirmer clairement  et sans équivoque l'importance de la liberté de la presse comme fondement du  système démocratique et, à une plus vaste échelle, par le libre flux des infor-  mations, comme facteur de respect mutuel et de confiance réciproque en un monde  qui désire cheminer vers la paix. Ici, nos efforts doivent tendre non seulement  vers le maintien et le renforcement de ce principe fondamental et indiscutable,  mais aussi, pour ce qui est notamment des pays et des sociétés plus jeunes, vers  la formation de journalistes responsables et la consolidation de moyens de  communication sociale au service de la liberté, de l'éducation et de la culture.
11.11 Mesdames, Messieurs, chacun de ces domaines à l'étude - l'éducation, la  science, la culture et l'information - sont des thèmes qui, par leur nature  propre, exigent beaucoup de la coopération internationale. Nous avons tous beau-  coup à apprendre les uns avec les autres, et c'est par l'expérience commune que  le progrès se trouve consolidé, s'enracine et s'épanouit. En même temps, ce sont  des domaines sensibles qui touchent à ce qui existe de plus profond dans le coeur
157    et dans l'esprit des hommes et des sociétés. Par conséquent, chaque parcelle de  dialogue, de coopération et de solidarité qui se matérialisera ici sera un pas  en avant vers ce monde moins crispé et plus compréhensif auquel nous aspirons.
11.12 Tout cela vise à souligner une fois de plus la valeur de 1'Unesco et  l'importance de notre travail à tous en son sein, ainsi que les possibilités  d'actions positives à mettre sur pied sous les auspices de l'Organisation.
11.13 A ce stade, je me dois de mentionner et de souligner l'expérience de  notre pays en ce qui concerne l'espace lusophone, dont la représentativité trans-  continentale doit toujours être présente à l'esprit de tous, et mérite d'être  relevée et valorisée dans le contexte de l'Organisation.
11.14 Au cours de ces dernières années, des pas positifs ont été faits dans  ce sens, grâce à l'élaboration et au renforcement de politiques et de stratégies  de coopération commune. Je signalerai, simplement à titre d'exemple parmi les  plus significatifs, la réunion qui s'est tenue à Lisbonne au mois de mars  dernier, entre les ministres de l'éducation des pays africains de langue offi-  cielle portugaise et du Portugal, en présence du Directeur général adjoint de  l'Unesc0, et qui s'est achevée, de façon fructueuse,  tion conjointe,  par une importante déclara-  d'ores et déjà en cours d'exécution pratique. Autre exemple, il  se tiendra en décembre prochain, une réunion analogue des ministres des sports,  domaine qui, lui aussi, se prête tout particulièrement au lancement et au mûris-  sement de politiques de coopération et qui, du reste, se trouve lui aussi inscrit  parmi les préoccupations générales auxquelles 1'Unesco apporte une attention  croissante. Dans le même esprit, il importe de signaler la réunion conjointe des  responsables des commissions nationales pour 1'Unesco des pays de l'aire luso-  phone, au cours de laquelle des progrès importants ont été faits dans l'élabora-  tion de projets d'intérêt commun.
11.15 Le Portugal accorde une grande priorité au resserrement des relations  au sein de l'univers de la langue portugaise, dans le droit fil d'ailleurs de la  valorisation des espaces transcontinentaux d'interpénétration culturelle dont je  viens de'parler et que 1'Unesco chérit à juste titre. Le Portugal suit, notam-  ment, avec un soin particulier et une vive préoccupation, la situation dramatique  du Timor oriental, et continue à appeler sur elle l'attention de la communauté  internationale. En effet, par delà la négation des droits essentiels de l'homme,  se projetant sur divers plans politiques, on constate que s'y produit une très  grave violation de l'identité culturelle et de la tradition linguistique spéci-  fique de la population.
11.16 Le Portugal consacre une attention spéciale, dans cette perspective, à  la défense et à la mise en valeur de cette langue commune, d'expression pluri-  séculaire en Afrique (dans les pays africains de langue officielle portugaise),  en Amérique latine (au Brésil), en Orient (à Macao et au Timor oriental) et en  Europe (au Portugal) ; elle se trouve aujourd'hui plus amplement diffusée, grâce  aux multiples communautés migrantes, et sert de véhicule direct de communication  culturelle à un univers de près de 200 millions de personnes.
11.17 Enfin, le Portugal ne peut qu'attribuer une très grande importance aussi  bien à la reconnaissance par 1'Unesco de la spécificité du groupe d'expression  portugaise, qu'à la valorisation du portugais dans le cadre du travail de l'Or-  ganisation. Pour ce qui est du premier aspect, nous aimerions demander à 1'Unesco  d'envisager spécialement des programmes de solidarité accrue avec l'Angola et le  Mozambique, en un moment où se produisent des changements tellement significatifs  en Afrique australe qu'on peut espérer voir s'apaiser progressivement des climats  de conflit aux répercussions si graves pour les peuples en cause. Quant au  deuxième aspect, le portugais dans le cadre de l'Unesco, nous notons les pas en  avant déjà faits depuis la dernière session de la Conférence générale, notamment  pour la traduction et l'élaboration de manuels scolaires destinés aux pays afri-  cains de langue officielle portugaise. Mais nous ne pouvons nous empêcher de  penser qu'il faut, à l'avenir, poursuivre sur cette voie et intensifier les  efforts, dans ces domaines et aussi dans de nouveaux champs d'action. De fait,  l'étendue de la langue portugaise dans le monde justifie amplement une action de  renforcement en sa faveur au sein de l'Organisation et son adoption progressive  comme langue de travail de la Conférence générale. Voilà pourquoi j'ai l'honneur  et le plaisir d'annoncer, au nom des sept pays de langue portugaise qui parti-  cipent à cette session de la Conférence générale, la présentation d'un nouveau  projet de résolution sur ce point, visant l'intensification d'initiatives concer-  tées parmi les sept pays, avec l'appui actif de l'unesco, dans le cadre du Plan  à moyen terme et du Programme et budget pour le prochain exercice biennal.
11.18 Mesdames, Messieurs, je terminerai en évoquant un aspect dont j'aimerais  qu'il soit un trait marquant de l'histoire de l'humanité tout au long de la pro-  chaine décennie et une base solide du XXIe siècle, qui pourrait être universel-  lement caractérisé, enfin, par la paix, par la liberté et par la justice. C'est
5  l'espérance, que le Portugal partage certainement avec la totalité des pays du  monde, que puissent se confirmer et s'affirmer les signes d'éclaircie, d'apaise-  ment et de liberté que nous voyons se dessiner dans les diverses zones du globe.  C'est la conviction que, au sein même de notre Unesco, l'éducation et la culture,  d'une part, bénéficieront directement de ce climat de paix et de liberté et,  d'autre part, seront l'un des ciments les plus solides de ce même climat au plus  profond du coeur des peuples, des hommes et des sociétés.
11.19 C'est sur ce souhait que je voudrais centrer mes voeux en espérant,  comme je l'ai fait, que les années 90 seront la décennie de l'éducation et de la  culture ; en affirmant notre volonté de ce que personne ne se voit privé de la  moindre parcelle de sa liberté en raison de ses idées et de sa culture ; et de  ce que, inversement, personne ne soit dépouillé de ses racines culturelles ou  n'ait à abdiquer quoi que ce soit de ses idéaux les plus nobles pour accéder à  un degré de liberté plus grande. En somme, notre souhait est de faire partager  la confiance humaniste - que l'éducation enracine et les cultures se transmettent  l'une à l'autre - en un univers de respect plus grand et plus général des droits  de l'homme et des peuples, dans une compréhension mutuelle et dans une coopéra-  tion solidaire ; ceci dans un cadre qui, parce qu'il est fait de respect scrupu-  leux et d'affirmation intégrale de la liberté et de l'identité de chacun, pourra  être enfin un cadre de paix et de justice, à l'intérieur de chaque pays et à  l'échelle de l'humanité tout entière.
12. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the Portuguese delegation and 1 cal1 on  H.E. General Mana Ratanakoses, Minister of Education and head of the delegation  of Thailand.
13.1 Mr RATANAKOSES (Thailand):  (Statement delivered in Thai; English translation provided by the  delegation)  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates and observers, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the  Thai delegation and on my own behalf, may 1 extend to you our sincere  congratulations on your election to the presidency of the General Conference.  Your election is indeed a great honour to the Asia and Pacifie region, and  particularly to the members of the Association of South-East Asian Nations  (ASEAN), and 1 have every confidence that with your wisdom and devotion to the  cause of Unesco, and with collective guidance as well as the goodwill of a11 of  us in this gathering the present session Will be steered to a successful  conclusion.
13.2 Mr President, before embarking on discussions on the various policy  issues, our delegation wishes to extend a warm welcome to the Cook Islands, the  Republic of Kiribati and the Republic of Djibouti, which have just been admitted  to Unesco. We look forward to future co-operation in Unesco activities with  these new Member States.
13.3 Mr President, Thailand considers it an honour that Unesco has  recognized the work undertaken by Professor Dr Her Royal Highness Princess  Chulabhorn. Her dedication to the scientific development of Thailand and to  international co-operation in science and technology led Unesco to award her the  Einstein Gold Medal in 1986. Her Royal Highness is now serving as a special  envoy of the World Health Organization (WHO) in its campaign to combat AIDS. In  the course of a recent visit to Unesco, to discuss with the Director-General the  strengthening of co-operation between the two organizations in the international  campaign against AIDS, she addressed the Executive Board on 12 October, and  emphasized the significance of Unesco's role in the promotion of science, hand  in hand with the promotion of education and culture, which lie at the heart of  a11 development.
13.4 Mr President, we a11 realize the significance of the twenty-fifth  session of the General Conference, when the Draft Medium-Term Plan and also the  Draft Programme and Budget for the forthcoming biennium, the first phase of the  Plan, Will be considered and approved. Needless to say, our Medium-Term Plan and  Unesco's future activities have been the subject of worldwide interest,  particularly to the mass media.
13.5 The Thai delegation is grateful to the Executive Board for its report  and recommendations on various items on the agenda of our Conference.
13.6 Regarding the Draft Medium-Term Plan, our delegation would like to  commend the quality of the document, its concision, clarity and readability. We  are particularly pleased that the Plan, whose duration coincides with Thailand's  seventh National Economie and Social Development Plan, aims at meeting the three  major challenges of the twenty-first Century, which indeed comprise the urgent  needs expressed in our Development Plan, namely peace, development and the  protection of the environment.
13.7 Unesco's emphasis on peace in particular is in line with the present  policy of the Royal Thai Government, as declared by H.E. General Chatichai  Choonhavan, Prime Minister of Thailand, in his statement on the solution of  regional conflicts in South-East Asia. The Royal Thai Government wishes to see  the battle zones in Indo-China turned into an area of social and economic  co-operation and development. In order to attain this goal, it is important that  a11 parties concerned hasten to end existing conflicts and mobilize a11  resources for the development of national potentials. When peace is restored,  international organizations such as Unesco cari be called upon to play a more  important role in the promotion of education, science and culture in the region.  Thailand therefore supports Unesco in a11 its endeavours for the promotion of  permanent peace and development in a11 regions of the world.
13.8 Mr President, on behalf of the Thai Government, 1 wish to express our  gratitude to Unesco for its assistance to Thailand in connection with the floods  in the south, in 1988. The catastrophe was indeed an important lesson to the  whole country. It served to teach us the dangers caused by the rapid depletion  of natural resources. It also made us aware of the importance and urgency of the  preservation of natural environment.
13.9 The Thai Government has declared 1989 as the Year for the Protection of  the Environment and Natural Resources, and activities in connection with public  information and public education have been organized in co-operation with the  mass media. 1 am therefore pleased that the environment is one of the areas of  emphasis in the Draft Medium-Term Plan. This coincides with the Royal Thai  Government's policy.
13.10 Mr President, the preservation' of the natural heritage should be  undertaken in conjunction with the preservation of the cultural heritage, as  both are linked to the survival of human society, and in this connection, may 1  remind the Conference that in many cases development workers tend to overlook  the importance of preserving the natural and cultural environment and are more  urgently involved in efforts to accelerate modernization. Modernization and  changes often take place SO rapidly that some groups of people in a given  society are unable to keep pace with them. At the same time, rapid modernization  often affects the pattern of the cultural environment and traditional values in  the society. These trends, which are to be found in developing and developed  countries alike, may in the long run gravely affect national identities and  societies themselves. Thailand therefore fully supports Unesco in its mission to  preserve the cultural as well as the natural environment.
13.11 Mr President, in meeting the challenges of the twenty-first Century for  the promotion of peace, development and environmental protection, 1 would like  to draw your attention to two important target groups, namely women and youth,  whose status and potential have yet to be fully developed in many countries Of  the world. With proper development, their potential could be utilized for the  better attainment of the three objectives already mentioned. In recognition of  the contribution they cari make, the Royal Thai Government has established a  national committee related to women and a department under the Prime Minister's  Office in charge of youth development. These agencies look forward to  co-operating with Unesco in their areas of competence.
13.12 Mr President, following the resolution adopted by the General  Conference at its last session on the commemoration of the anniversaries of  important personalities and events, Thailand is pleased to celebrate the  centenary of Phraya Anuman Rajadhon, one of its outstanding scholars. Apart from  the celebrations on our own land, other countries have joined us in celebrating  this event, Australia, Bhutan, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, the  Republic of Korea and the Lao People's Democratic Republic. May 1 take this  opportunity to thank the people of those countries for their co-operation. 1  would also like to thank Unesco for its initiative in promoting this kind of  activity, which enables the world to learn more about important personalities  and events in the history of other countries, and is also useful in promoting an  appreciation of cultures, regardless of race.
13.13 Mr President, Thailand has always considered education as an important  key to national development, and has therefore always supported Unesco's  activities in the areas of basic education and the eradication of illiteracy. We  designate 8 September of each year as International Literacy Day, it is our  National Literacy Day as well. For us, literacy means the ability to read,  think, implement and earn a living, and our national campaign covers a11 areas  throughout the Kingdom, including the remotest parts. The Royal Thai Government  therefore feels it an honour that Unesco has granted its International Reading  Association Literacy Award for 1989 to the Border Patrol Police whose arduous  work among the tribal 11411 peoples deserves to be recognized. Such an award  serves to encourage the launching of similar projects.
13.14 At the regional level, Thailand maintains its strong support for  Unesco's existing regional programmes such as APEID and APPEAL and looks forward  to the growth and expansion of the newly established Regional Resource Centre in  Distance Education of Sukhothait Thammathirat Open University of Thailand under  the aegis of Unesco.
13.15 Mr President, Thailand supports the teaching of science at the higher  education level and Unesco's work in this field. Our delegation also believes in  the role assigned to organizations or institutions in charge of science ;;d  technological development in bridging the gap between the developing  developed countries.
13.16 As regards science and society, we fully agree with Unesco's emphasis  on arousing public awareness of the importance of science and technology in  improving the quality of life. Thailand therefore supports the programme aimed  at strengthening co-operation between natural and social scientists in jointly  studying problems resulting from scientific and technological progress. We would  like to assure Unesco of our readiness to co-operate in activities such as  training and research relating to science and technology policy as proposed in  the Draft Programme and Budget for the forthcoming biennium.
13.17 Mr President, the Thai delegation is happy to see that the Draft  Medium-Term Plan includes sections on the World Decade for Cultural Development  and on 'Culture for development'. We feel that the Decade provides a good  opportunity for a11 of us to take stock of the cultural needs and aspirations of  the people and to make plans that Will promote the participation of people frOm  a11 walks of life in cultural activities. 1 am happy to say that Thailand is  preparing a new phase of the National Cultural Plan, for incorporation in the  seventh National Economie and Social Development Plan. Many governmental and  private agencies in the country have assisted in preparing this Plan and the  balance between human resource development, the protection of the environment  and social development has been taken into consideration.
13.i8 As for regional co-operation in culture, Thailand, together with a  number of other countries in Asia, strongly feels the need for a regional  mechanism for cultural co-operation. A regional consultative meeting on cultural  co-operation in Asia in Chiengmai in December 1988 made a strong plea to UneSCO  to support the establishment of a regional mechanism for cultural co-operation  in the region, particularly in view of the World Decade for Cultural Development.
13.19 Mr President, the Thai delegation is also particularly interested in  one of the Decade's projects - the Integral Study of the Silk Roads. In ancient  times, Thailand was part of the Silk Road and enjoyed cultural exchanges with  many countries, particularly China, India and the countries of the Middle East,  both by land and by sea, as has been revealed by archaeological excavations.  Thailand is happy to join in the Silk Roads Project, and is offering to host an  international seminar in connection with the project in 1991 in Thailand.
13.20 Mr President, Thailand is supporting Unesco's efforts t0 promote  regional co-operation in the field of the social sciences by making use of  available data through the network on social science information. It also  endorses the significance given to the programme on social changes in  demographic terms which, in turn, is connected to the mobilizing project on the  future of big cities. The Thai delegation also regards the programme on  communication, particularly 'Communication for development' as highly important  since it affects the quality of life of the people of the developing countries  in many ways. Communication technology has been progressing very rapidly in the  recent past, necessitating the training of communication personnel.
13.21 Mr President, during the past two years, Thailand has actively  participated in Unesco's different programmes and activities, including the  organization of meetings, seminars and training courses and the dissemination of  information about the Organization. As for 1990 which has been designated  International Literacy Year, Thailand is proud to be chosen as the host countrY  for two important events, namely the World Conference on Education for Al1 to be  hosted jointly with the International Council on Adult Education for All, and  jointly organized by Unesco, UNICEF, UNDP and the World Bank. The latter Will be  held at the scenic seaside resort of Jomtien on 5-9 March next year.
13.22 His Excellency the Prime Minister of Thailand is particularly  interested in the World Conference on Education for All. He has given me special  instructions in rny capacity as Minister of Education to ensure that the best  possible preparations are made for this Conference. May 1 take this opportunity  to invite the Member States of Unesco to be represented there? We hope that the  Conference Will be not just another world gathering but a forum where  educational and development leaders Will pledge their commitment to and support  for the eradication of illiteracy through concrete activities before the year
2000. Thank you.
14. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the Thai delegation for his statement. 1 am sure 1  speak for a11 delegates in saying that we welcome your generosity in hosting the  World Conference on Education for Al1 in Thailand next year. 1 now invite  H.E. Shri Shiv Shanker, Minister of Human Resource Development and head of the  delegation of India, to take the floor.
15.1 Mr SHANKER (India):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, it gives me great pleasure to felicitate you on your  election to the presidency of this momentous twenty-fifth session of the General  Conference of Unesco. It is a matter of particular pleasure to us because India  and Malaysia are bound by close ties of friendship and co-operation. Your own  persona1 qualities are well known. 1 am confident that you Will steer the work  of this Conference with commendable sagacity and carry Member States with you in  taking proper decisions in an atmosphere of trust and cordiality.
15.2 May 1 take this opportunity of welcoming in our midst the new Member  States - Djibouti, the Cook Islands and Kiribati. We look forward to working  with them.
15.3 The goal of eliminating war and violence from the minds of people has  been acknowledged by visible East-West détente, and new horizons and  unprecedented possibilities are opening up for the intensification of worldwide  efforts in the areas of education, science, culture and communication. We need  to utilize this opportunity to take a hard look at Unesco's prospects for action  in the light of the mandate given by its Constitution, and to chart the course  that Unesco should follow during the period covered by the third Medium-Term  Plan. In this connection, 1 would like to congratulate the Director-General and  his colleagues in the Secretariat on doing a commendable job in preparing the  Draft Medium-Term Plan and the Draft Programme and Budget which, in spite of  being brief, do not in any way lose the focus on important and highly relevant  areas of concern.
15.4 International intellectual co-operation, which is symbolized by Unesco,  is reflected in abundant measure in these documents. They are the product of  wide-ranging and in-depth analysis and scrutiny the world over. Member States  have gone into the ramifications of these documents in their National  Commissions and in regional conferences SO as to project their national and  regional concerns. They deserve to be complimented. The Chairman and members of  the Executive Board also deserve to be congratulated on their painstaking  examination of the documents and on having presented meaningful suggestions  formulated by consensus.
15.5 1 am glad that the reduction in the number of major programmes from  fourteen to seven reflects the observations made by the Indian National  Commission. India has supported Unesco in facilitating the formulation and  implementation of its activities, blending in reason and shedding a11 tendencies  towards a mere doctrinaire cost-benefit approach. We stress Unesco's catalytic  and spearheading role, and do not look upon the Organization as a mere funding  agency. Our expectations concerning the results of the new method of Plan  formulations and implementation are high.
15.6 'Synergie' operations, networking with the external agencies Will not,
1 hope, result in shifting basic responsibilities out of sight of Unesco or its  Executive Board. The globally mandated role of Unesco should not become  institutionally diverted or diluted.
15.7 A meaning effort in the seven major programme areas which constitute  the pillars of the Draft Medium-Term Plan Will cal1 for much vaster resources.  Since Unesco is in a critical resource situation, greater efforts Will have to  be made to concentrate resources in selected areas. We may, therefore, have to  protect zealously the priorities the Organization has set itself.
15.8 The interface between education and human resource development is very  well established. Education directly contributes to the development of the human  potential which, in turn, improves productivity. Education also indirectly  promotes productivity with its impact on factors like fertility rates, life  expectancy, infant mortality, etc. Increased productivity leads to growth which,  in its turn, conditions the pattern of employment and labour market processes.  The positive correlation between the growth of literacy rates and of gross  domestic product rates is well known. The present scenario of illiteracy has to  be tackled in the light of these factors.
15.9 In an estimated world population of over 5,000 million by 1990, over
75 per cent would be accounted for by developing countries. The illiterate  population in the age-group of 15 to 24 alone would be of the order of
1,000 million. The Child labour force constitutes a substantial part of the  illiterate population. As early as 1983, the International Labour Conference  brought into focus the dimensions of Child labour in large parts of the world.  It was also brought out that the work force in small-scale industries and also  in the informa1 sector often consisted largely of low-paid Child labour. At a  time when they ought to be at school, it was observed that millions of children  were subjected to the misery of poorly paid, exploitative work. The projected  programmes for providing basic education for a11 and combating illiteracy are  the panacea for the malady. The drive for universal elementary education as  proposed Will stem illiteracy at the source, pre-empting the interminable  additions to the vast backlog of illiterates.
15.io As a11 of us are aware, the World Bank, UNICEF, UNDP and Unesco have  corne together to organize a World Conference early in 1990 for the creation of a  charter on the theme of 'education for a11 by 2000 A.D'. Unesco should and must  play a primary role in the deliberations of the Conference and the greatest tare  should be taken to ensure that networking does not impair this role. 1  congratulate the Director-General and the Executive Board on assigning the  highest priority to this war on illiteracy in the Medium-Term Plan.
15.11 The development and protection of the environment has been rightly  construed as one of the major challenges of the day. In the draft programme  emphasis is rightly laid on building up of national capabilities, particularly  in developing countries, and on innovative reforms in the teaching of science.  Environmental education, including the management of the environment and natural  resources, has rightly been highlighted.
15.12 In this context, the concept of 'sustainable development' that is being  advanced needs to be better defined and clarified. For development to be  sustainable, it must also be equitable. The rich countries, being primarily  responsible for the increasing concentration of chlore- and fluorocarbon and  other greenhouse gases in the earth's atmosphere, should ensure that they make  available ecologically sound technologies in a11 nations, rich or poor. There  are developing technologies which are safer, but these are being developed in  the private sector and thus are covered by intellectual property rights. Such  technologies should be made available to the developing countries at an  affordable cost. It is therefore imperative that bridges be built between  science and society by Unesco through its major programme entitled 'Science for  progress and the environment'.
15.13 One of the mandates of Unesco is not only to promote collaboration  among nations for the preservation and protection of the world cultural heritage  but also to play an important role in the renewal of cultural life, SO that  culture may constitute an essential part of the life of the individual and the  development of societies as well as the basis for new forms of co-operation  between peoples. The programmes drawn up for the World Decade by the  Director-General are, in our opinion, well thought out and deserve to be  supported fully by this Conference. In pursuance of the Decade's objectives and  activities, we intend to launch a major campaign for fostering the development  of traditional and folk forms of performing arts and skills and also to create  awareness, particularly among Young people, of our cultural heritage at the  grass-roots level. Awareness Will lead to participation, and we are convinced  that, when this reaches our institutions at village level our heritage Will then  be protected in the most truly effective manner.
15.14 1 am glad to inform this assemblage that the Indira Gandhi National  Centre for Arts has been making significant contributions to the activities  undertaken by Unesco, both at the conceptual, methodological and  implementational level of regional programmes. The centre has been focusing  attention on cross-cultural studies and the introduction of modern and  scientific techniques in the developing countries. We urge that these efforts of  the Indira Gandhi National Centre for Arts continue to receive co-operation  under the aegis of Unesco.
15.15 There has been a spectacular development of communication technologies  in the last few decades. This calls for continued efforts to strengthen the  communication capabilities of developing countries. The development of  infrastructures, the training of personnel and media-related education should be  geared to ensure a balance in regard to the flow of information. In this  context, implementation of the International Programme for the Development of  Communication (IPDC) needs to be strengthened. My delegation therefore welcomes  the priority accorded to the major programme area on communication. The  consensus achieved in the Executive Board on the communication programmes lays  stress on ensuring a free flow and a wider and better-balanced dissemination of  information to strengthen the communication capabilities of the developing  countries. We hope that, on the basis of this consensus, Unesco Will be able to
163    make a new beginning in working towards a positive strategy enabling the  Organization's global objectives to be attained in such a manner as to dispel  misunderstanding and to serve wider human interests.
15.16 We welcome the emphasis laid on the development of social and human  sciences in the Draft Medium-Term Plan. Unesco's action in the field of the  social sciences should include the furtherance of interdisciplinary research  into and the promotion of knowledge about peace, conflicts and human rights,  including a11 forms of discrimination. It is gratifying to note that Unesco has  attached importance to Young people in a11 its activities and programmes. The  mobilizing project, 'The future of cities in the face of social and cultural  challenges', in the Draft Plan is well conceived and extremely relevant to  social concerns to which social science research has up to now paid little  attention. The focus of social science activities on the status of women is  another welcome feature. Mr President, we feel that technical co-operation  between developing countries, an innovative approach to international  co-operation, deserves to be emphasized in Unesco's programmes as it helps to  evolve appropriate responses to the problems of developing countries because of  the similarity of socio-economic conditions.
15.17 It need hardly be stressed here that a human being is a positive asset  and a precious resource which needs to be cherished, nurtured and developed with  tare, protection and love. The dynamics of peace are therefore essentially  founded on respect for human dignity and human rights. Human rights aim not only  to free individuals from terror and poverty but to promote social progress and  establish better living conditions in greater freedom. My delegation thus  attached a great deal of importance to Major Programme Areas V, VI and VII. 1  would specially like to place on record my deep appreciation for the special  project 'Towards an apartheid-free world'. We hope that Unesco as a premier  international organization designed to promote intellectual co-operation Will  continue to play a special role in the struggle against racism and apartheid.
15.18 We are glad that the subject of education for international  understanding, co-operation and peace has found its proper place in Major  Programme Area VII. However, it is felt that the activities level leaves  something to be desired. There is a discernible inadequacy of materials relating  to education for peace. There is an imperative need to set up a resource centre  as a special wing of the Organization to act as a basic source of research and  dissemination of material on educaton for peace.
15.19 Unesco has paid a fitting tribute to the memory of Jawaharlal Nehru,  who was a true world Citizen and an ardent champion of peace, by undertaking  various programmes and activities to commemorate the centenary of his birth at  the global level. 1 join my colleagues in my delegation and my countrymen at  home in thanking Unesco for this gracious gesture.
15.20 Mr President and fellow delegates, let me conclude by quoting the  statement made by Shri Jawaharlal Nehru before the General Conference session in
1956:  'Man does not live by politics alone, nor indeed wholly by economics.  And SO Unesco came to represent something that was vital to human  existence and progress. Even as the United Nations General Assembly  represented the political Will of the world community, Unesco tried to  represent the finer and deeper sides of human life and indeed might be  said to represent the conscience of the world community'.
16. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the Indian delegation. 1 am sure we would a11 agree  that Unesco represents the conscience of the world community, as Nehru SO  rightly said. 1 now cal1 on H.E. Mr Lionel Jospin, Minister of Education, Youth  and Sports and head of the delegation of France.
17.1 M. JOSPIN (France) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président  du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les  ministres, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs  les délégués, je me permets tout d'abord, au nom du pays hôte de l'Unesco, de  vous souhaiter à tous la bienvenue. Ce message de bienvenue, je vous l'adresse  au nom du Président de la République, François Mitterrand, au nom du gouvernement  que je représente ici, et au nom de tous les intellectuels, hommes de science,  créateurs et éducateurs de France.
17.2 Je tiens également, Monsieur le Président, à vous féliciter pour votre  élection. Vous êtes le ministre de l'éducation nationale de la Malaisie. Vous  êtes, en outre, membre du Conseil exécutif de 1'Unesco et président de la Commis-  sion nationale de votre pays, ce qui montre l'intérêt déjà ancien que vous portez
5  à notre Organisation. Maintes fois, nous avons eu l'occasion d'apprécier le  talent et la courtoisie de votre prédécesseur, M. Guillermo Putzeys Alvarez ; je  suis persuadé que sous votre autorité les travaux de notre Conférence aboutiront  à d'excellents réultats.
17.3 Je souhaite aussi adresser mes souhaits de bienvenue aux représentants  des trois Etats qui viennent de rejoindre notre Organisation : la République de  Djibouti, la République de Kiribati, ainsi que les îles Cook.
17.4 Nous allons, Monsieur le Président, approuver dans quelques jours un  Plan à moyen terme. La France souhaite que l'accord le plus large puisse être  trouvé sur ce Plan, autour des valeurs fondamentales qui motivent l'engagement  de tous au sein de 1'Unesco : les droits de l'homme, la paix, la sauvegarde de  l'environnement, l'accès à l'information et aux savoirs, le respect et l'expres-  sion des diversités culturelles. Le Plan à moyen terme aura pour nous tous valeur  de référence. Il doit donc mettre clairement en avant les objectifs poursuivis.  Ce Plan doit aussi rester suffisamment flexible pour permettre de prendre en  compte les évolutions futures dans un monde marqué par une évolution rapide des  savoirs et qui se trouve à l'orée de transformations politiques et sociales  majeures.
17.5 Nous allons également au cours de cette session adopter un programme et  budget qui permettront de mettre en oeuvre la première phase du Plan à moyen  terme. Nous aurons même un échange de vues sur la deuxième phase du plan. Il  s'agit là d'une innovation majeure car nous pourrons ainsi mieux répartir dans  le temps nos efforts. Le document biennal qui est soumis à notre examen est d'une  grande clarté et d'une grande cohérence : sur le fond, il tend à bien définir et  hiérarchiser les priorités ; sur le plan institutionnel, il marque clairement les  rôles impartis à la Conférence générale, au Conseil exécutif et au Directeur  général.
17.6 Dans le respect des dispositions statutaires, vous avez eu, Monsieur le  Directeur général, pour souci constant d'associer le Conseil exécutif à la pré-  paration du futur Plan à moyen terme. De son côté, le Conseil exécutif, auquel  je tiens également à rendre hommage, vous a adressé des recommandations plus  précises que par le passé. Les échanges riches et réguliers qui se sont ainsi  établis ont favorisé la prise en compte de nombreuses innovations. Ils permettent  également à la Conférence générale d'être aujourd'hui pleinement informée, et  donc à même d'exercer toutes ses responsabilités.
17.7 Il est vrai que certaines formulations, ici ajoutées, là retirées, no--  tamment dans le domaine de l'information et de la communication, ont pu susciter  une certaine émotion. Nous devons éviter tout malentendu, et je suis convaincu  que nous pourrons par le dialogue parvenir à un accord de fond, permettant à  l'Organisation d'accomplir de réels progrès dans le sens de la liberté et de la  solidarité.
17.8 Vous avez également souhaité, Monsieur le Directeur général, resserrer  les liens de 1'Unesco avec les autres institutions des Nations Unies et les  agences de financement, et engager un dialogue avec les communautés intellec-  tuelles de tous les Etats membres ou observateurs, les commissions nationales et  les organisations non gouvernementales.
17.9 En ce qui concerne la collaboration aves les autres institutions des  Nations Unies et les agences de financement, le constat est clair : les princi-  paux moyens financiers de la coopération pour le développement ne sont pas entre  les mains de 1'Unesco. Les apports fondamentaux de l'Organisation sont donc  davantage d'ordre qualitatif que quantitatif. Cette situation justifie pleinement  les actions qui sont conduites de manière conjointe avec les agences de finance-  ment. Pour que cette collaboration puisse porter véritablement ses fruits, il  serait souhaitable que les Etats membres présentent aux organismes de financement  un plus grand nombre de projets relevant des missions de 1'Unesco. Cette orien-  tation me paraît d'ailleurs s'inscrire utilement dans le cadre de la Décennie  mondiale du développement culturel dans laquelle toutes les institutions des  Nations Unies sont engagées.
17.10 En ce qui concerne maintenant le dialogue avec les partenaires non gou-  vernementaux, vous en avez parfaitement défini les enjeux dans l'introduction au  Projet de plan : "...l'Unesco de demain, déterminée à conférer à son action des  effets multiplicateurs, assumera pleinement son rôle de médiateur entre les  divers acteurs de la scène internationale... Elle donnera alors une ampleur nou-  velle aux relations qui l'unissent naturellement aux intellectuels, aux éduca-  teurs, aux hommes de science et aux créateurs. Ce sont eux qui constituent notre  richesse et notre force. Ce sont eux qui donnent vie aux écoles, aux labora-  toires, aux ateliers, aux journaux et qui représentent notre moyen privilégié de  diffuser le message de paix, de liberté et de justice". C'est en effet dans un
165    dialogue avec les commissions nationales, les organisations non gouvernementales  et tous les acteurs que 1'Unesco pourra le mieux être à l'écoute des aspirations  des peuples et exercer sa fonction de centre d'échange d'informations. Plutôt  que de créer des structures nouvelles, il paraît préférable de s'appuyer sur les  réseaux existants. Je me demande d'ailleurs comment, compte tenu de la modicité  des ressources propres de l'Organisation, nous pourrions financer la création de  nouvelles institutions.
17.11 Cette question me permet de rappeler, d'une manière plus générale, que  la France demeure fidèle aux principes de l'Acte constitutif, lesquels accordent  à chacun le même pouvoir de participer à la décision. Cette doctrine n'exclut  pas des contributions particulières destinées à financer des programmes priori-  taires mais elle s'oppose aux dérives d'une "Unesco à la carte". La France est  prête à en tirer les conséquences et à étudier avec attention la possibilité d'un  certain renforcement du budget de l'Organisation. Si le principe de ce renforce-  ment bugétaire était retenu, il devrait alors porter sur des actions reconnues  en commun comme prioritaires. Je pense à la lutte contre l'analphabétisme, à la  protection de l'environnement, au développement culturel, au progrès de la com-  munication, à la lutte contre l'apartheid et, de manière plus générale, à la  promotion des droits de l'homme et à la réduction des inégalités entre les pays  riches et les pays pauvres.
17.12 Tous ces thèmes d'action ont pour enjeu la dignité de l'homme et parfois  même sa survie. Ils traduisent aussi notre volonté commune de sauvegarder et de  mettre en valeur notre patrimoine naturel et culturel. A cet égard, je citerai  trois projets qui me semblent tout à fait exemplaires : celui de la renaissance  de la Bibliothèque d'Alexandrie - le Président de la République française a tenu  d'ailleurs à faire partie lui-même de la commission internationale qui appuie  moralement et intellectuellement ce projet, celui sur "l'étude intégrale des  routes de la soie" et celui de la célébration du cinquième centenaire de la  rencontre de deux mondes.
7.13 Les objectifs poursuivis relèvent tous du domaine de l'universel. Mais  cela ne remet pas en cause la légitimité des actions qui tendent à renforcer les  potentialités de certains Etats membres, dans le respect de leur autonomie et de  leurs identités culturelles. La mission la plus pressante de 1'Unesco est de  contribuer à réduire le fossé qui sépare la prospérité de quelques-uns et la  pauvreté du plus grand nombre. Les problèmes propres à chaque continent doivent  être pris en compte dans un esprit de solidarité universelle. La priorité que le  plan et le programme biennal accordent aux pays d'Afrique me paraît pleinement  justifiée, car le développement dans ces pays est freiné par tant d'obstacles  qu'il ne pourra se réaliser qu'avec le concours actif de la communauté  internationale.
17.14 De l'Unescor nous attendons beaucoup. Dans un monde où la logique de la  coopération semble pouvoir succéder à la logique de la confrontation, dans un  monde où s'enchevêtrent et se confondent les appels des peuples à plus de liberté  et de justice sociale, 1'Unesco peut contribuer à la définition de nouvelles  formes de solidarité internationale. Les espoirs de rapprochement qui s'es-  quissent aujourd'hui en Europe sont nés dans le creuset de 1'Unesco. Celle-ci  doit continuer à jouer son rôle de pionnier et à se porter au devant de l'his-  toire et des espoirs des peuples. Elle le fera en aidant l'humanité à relever les  multiples défis qui conditionnent son devenir : l'avènement de la paix bien sûr,  mais aussi la lutte contre le racisme et la fin de l'apartheid, le respect et  l'enrichissement des diversités culturelles, le renforcement des capacités de  communication dans le respect du pluralisme de l'information, l'égalité des  femmes et des hommes, les droits des enfants.
17.15 La sauvegarde de l'environnement est aussi un enjeu majeur dont la com-  munauté internationale commence à prendre conscience. La France a, avec les Pays-  Bas et la Norvège, favorisé l'adoption d'une importante déclaration sur la pro-  tection de l'atmosphère lors de la récente Conférence de La Haye. Nous entendons  continuer à contribuer activement à la réflexion et à l'action dans ce domaine.  L'Unesco a pour sa part un rôle majeur à jouer en liaison avec les autres insti-  tutions spécialisées. Ce rôle, vous l'avez bien résumé, Monsieur le Directeur  général, en parlant de "la paix entre les hommes et leur environnement".
17.16 Je souhaite à cet égard rappeler l'importance du programme sur "L'homme  et la biosphère" qui est l'une des grandes réussites de 1'Unesco. Ce programme,  tout comme la Commission océanographique intergouvernementale, sont des instru-  ments qui permettent des transferts de compétences entre le Nord et le Sud, et  qui donnent la possibilité d'aborder ces problèmes fondamentaux avec toute la  rigueur scientifique nécessaire.
17.17 La formation constitue aussi une action nécessaire dans tous les do-  maines de 1'Unesco. L'Organisation doit la considérer comme une composante  transversale et, de ce fait, prééminente.
17.18 En ce qui concerne la lutte contre l'analphabétisme au Sud et l'illet-  trisme au Nord, la France a souhaité répondre à l'appel qui était lancé en mobi-  lisant, sur le plan national, tous les acteurs au sein d'un comité chargé de  proposer un programme d'action pour l'Année internationale de l'alphabétisation.  Nous attendons donc beaucoup, de la conférence qui aura lieu prochainement a  Jomtien en Thaïlande sur l'éducation pour tous. Fille des lumières, la Révolution  française a voulu donner à l'instruction de base une place essentielle. En cette  année du bicentenaire de la Révolution, que je me réjouis d'avoir vu fêter dans  tant de pays amis, nous devons réfléchir au rôle de l'école qui est, comme le  disait le philosophe et mathématicien français Condorcet, "d'établir entre les  citoyens une égalité de fait, et de rendre réelle l'égalité politique reconnue  par la loi". La conférence de Jomtien à laquelle participeront le PNUD, l'Unicef  et la Banque mondiale, illustrera la volonté de 1'Unesco de collaborer avec les  autres institutions du système des Nations Unies et avec les organismes de  financement. Mais elle doit être aussi l'occasion d'affirmer que l'éducation et  la formation figurent parmi les composantes essentielles de l'action de l'unesco.
17.19 Nos établissements d'enseignement doivent accueillir un nombre de plus  en plus important d'enfants. Lorsque l'on sait qu'en l'an 2000 la moitié de la  population d'Afrique aura moins de 20 ans, on mesure les contraintes qui vont  peser sur les budgets nationaux et la définition des politiques éducatives. A  cette poursuite de la croissance démographique doivent être ajoutés les effets  de l'augmentation de la demande sociale de formation, notamment dans les pays  développés, les taux de scolarisation ne cesseront donc, à long terme, de pro-  gresser. Satisfaire cette demande de formation, c'est tout à la fois répondre a  une exigence de démocratisation et faire face à la nécessité du développement  économique. Les systèmes économiques ont certes besoin d'équipes d'excellence,  mais ils ont également besoin d'hommes et de femmes disposant d'une bonne forma-  tion de base. La difficulté est grande pour les pays industrialisés mais elle  l'est plus encore pour les pays du Sud. Des efforts de solidarité doivent donc  être accomplis.
17.20 Ces efforts ne sauraient être limités à la construction d'écoles. Il  faut aussi recruter des enseignants en nombre suffisant, repenser leur formation,  lutter contre l'échec scolaire qui génère des coûts économiques et sociaux élevés  dans la plupart des pays, promouvoir l'enseignement des langues vivantes et  l'éducation aux droits de l'homme pour favoriser la compréhension entre les  peuples, enfin, intégrer les progrès de la recherche dans les cursus de formation  tout en veillant à ne pas alourdir des programmes scolaires déjà surchargés.
17.21 Au-delà des différences qui existent entre nos systèmes d'éducation et  nos politiques de formation, ces thèmes d'action constituent pour nous tous des  priorités. Il faut profiter de nos convergences d'analyse pour mettre en place  de nouvelles formes de coopération internationale. La quatrième Conférence des  ministres de la région Europe et la dixième Conférence des commissions nationales  de 1'Unesco pour l'Europe ont commencé à montrer la voie. De nouveaux projets  naissent également dans l'espace francophone ou dans des enceintes comme l'OCDE,  la Communauté économique européenne, le Conseil de l'Europe. Il faudra donc  veiller a la coordination et à l'harmonisation des multiples actions entreprises.
17.22 Monsieur le Président, c'est en restant fidèles à nos idéaux et à nos  convictions, en montrant notre détermination à oeuvrer pour plus de solidarité  et de justice et en poursuivant nos efforts de rationalisation dans la gestion  que nous pourrons susciter l'intérêt de ceux qui, pendant près de quarante ans,  ont accepté de cheminer avec nous. Vous avez, Monsieur le Directeur général,  fait tout ce qui était en votre pouvoir pour préparer le retour à l'universalité  de 1'Unesco. Vous vous êtes employé à lever chacun des obstacles, conformément  aux décisions de la Conférence générale et suivant l'expression de sa volonté.  C'est maintenant aux Etats, et à tous les Etats, de prendre leurs responsabi-  lités. Je vous remercie.
18. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the French delegation and now cal1 upon  H.E. Dr Hans Werner Lautenschlager, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and  head of the delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany.
19.1 Mr LAUTENSCHLAGER (Federal Republic of Germany):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government of the Federal Republic of  Germany 1 offer you, Mr President, our warmest congratulations on your election.  We wish you and a11 of us a successful General Conference, it having set itself  the special task of creating new standards SO that the work of future General  Conferences cari be streamlined and made more effective. My delegation Will do  a11 it possibly cari to help achieve this aim.
19.2  in  The twenty-fifth session of the General Conference is a major landmark  Unesco's history, an eventful history in which the Organization has  experienced success, failure and aberrations. After ail, a multilateral  organization always mirrors to some extent current, contradictory developments  in Member States and at the same time reflects international political trends.  But it should not be content with this role. It must rather, through its own  strength and authority,  it to be able to do SO,  play an active part in shaping those developments. For  a11 concerned must be alert, attentive, critical - also  self-critical - especially where it is a case of reversing undesirable trends.  My government is prepared to play its part in these efforts and would like to  continue doing SO also through future co-operation in the Executive Board.
19.3 Mr President, we are a11 witnesses to and at the same time active  participants in Unesco's attempts to learn from the mistakes  mindful of the Organization's constitutional aims,  of the past and  to fulfil its mandate with a  view to the future. Since the twenty-third session of the General Conference in  Sofia and the twenty-fourth in Paris we have made good progress in this  direction.  it is  But we must admit that we have not yet achieved our goal. After ail,  difficult for an organization with 161 members to move quickly.  Furthermore, the reform programme has been subject to the restraints of the old  Medium-Term Plan and structures, and it had to be implemented with a budget  reduced by nearly a third and with no other assistance than the solidarity of  member countries.
19.4 But now, at last, we have a chance to step out of the shadow of the  past. This opportunity is afforded by the Director-General's Draft Medium-Term  Plan and Draft Programme and Budget for 1990-1991, which are consistent with the  key demands of Member States at the twenty-third and twenty-fourth sessions of  the General Conference. The Draft Plan sets out with remarkable clarity the  aims, strategy and envisaged activities against the historical and factual  background, and combines strict orientation to the Organization's mandate with  the necessary flexibility. It provides welcome support for interdisciplinary  initiatives and intersectoral co-operation.
19.5 It is now a question of implementing this concept by means of tight  organization and staff management. The success of a11 our efforts SO far depends  on this. We therefore deem it extremely important, Mr Director-General, that you  devote yourself to this task with the same energy and sense of purpose that you  have shown in developing the programme's conceptual foundations. In this  connection my government Will continue to insist on real zero growth.
19.6 There are two other points which 1 feel are of vital importance to  Unesco's future. The first is the principle of solidarity, which is a special  feature of the Plan we have before us. As the Director-General pointed out in  his introduction, 'more active solidarity in relations between industrialized  countries and developing countries' should ease the transition to the  twenty-first Century.
19.7 Also to be seen in this context is the development in East-West  relations which arouses the hope and sympathy of us a11 and which, as you have  witnessed yourselves, affects the people in both German States in a special way  at this time. The reform process in Central and Eastern Europe and the change in  the East-West relationship associated with it - a process in which old barriers  are giving way to new thinking and old mistrust to the spirit of co-operation -  Will, 1 am convinced, in the long run have a favourable impact on co-operation  between industrialized and developing countries as well.
19.8 The other point concerns human rights, which the Director-General has  rightly termed 'a common heritage of mankind'. Respect for those rights has  increased visibly in recent years a11 over the world. In many countries  political prisoners have been released. The favourable development 1 have  mentioned - and not least the discreet activities of this Organization - have  contributed to this improvement. In numerous countries, however, the suppression  of human rights continues, indeed in some cases it is even increasing. Here a  great deal remains to be done.
19.9 Mr President, the Federal Republic of Germany supports the Organization  unreservedly in its efforts to restore its own universality. We link with this  the hope that a11 countries Will again gradually realize that it is worth making  known one's own views within the Organization and contributing one's own  intellectual and financial resources and energies. We sorely miss the  participation and the contribution of the United States, the United Kingdom and  Singapore. We Will continue to try and bring Unesco and these former members  back together again. As we a11 know, the third Medium-Term Plan Will play an  important, perhaps crucial, role in restoring Unesco's universality. The  Director-General's draft and the annexes he has since submitted are, in our
166    view, suited to this purpose. With your permission 1 should like to single out  several of the points on which he has focused attention.
19.10 Mr President, in his introduction to the Draft Medium-Term Plan the  Director-General says that the three great challenges facing mankind on the  threshold of the twenty-first Century are peace, development and the protection  of the environment. Meeting these challenges is truly a task for the whole of  mankind. Every individual, every nation and every organization must participate  in this endeavour to the best of their ability, and a11 their energies must be  pooled and rendered more effective through a more appropriate division of  labour, better CO-ordination and even closer co-operation. We are therefore  gratified to note that Unesco, under its Director-General Mr Mayor, has begun t0  define more clearly its specific contribution to these major tasks of our time  and to improve co-operation and CO-ordination with other international  organizations and institutions.
19.11 An organization whose field of activity is human thought cari and should  primarily provide stimulus, of course. It should therefore not attempt to do too  much itself but delegate as much as possible. This resultant catalytic role of  Unesco is the key to its self-image, but this, it seems to me, has not yet been  sufficiently accepted.
19.12 In the field of education the Draft Medium-Term Plan rightly attaches  great importance to literacy and basic education. Unless these requirements are  met, there cari be no social and economic progress. The results achieved by  Unesco SO far threaten to be overtaken by developments. Here the Organization's  catalytic role must again prove its value. But only countries individually cari  provide the specific response to this challenge, by training instructors,  providing educational structures, and above a11 arousing public awareness of the  priority of education. The Federal Republic of Germany is making a sizeable  contribution to that role through its continuous support for the Unesco  Institute for Education in Hamburg.
19.13 The General Conference also iias before it the Draft Conventicn on  Technical and Vocational Education. It is the product of eight years' careful  preparation and we wish to thank a11 those who have been involved. Through the  adoption of this Convention vocational training Will acquire within Unesco the  priority it deserves as an effective instrument for the promotion of  development. We Will gladly make our experience in this field available in the  co-operative process.
19.14 One of the main targets of Unesco's work is education for international  understanding. My country is following very closely the progress of the 1974  Recommendation, which it regards as a focal point of its own work in the  Organization. The task of removing hostile preconceptions in order to establish  peace that is more than the absence of war must be completed a11 over the world.  It seems important to us in this respect to combine the objectives of Major  Programme Area VII (Unesco's contribution to peace, human rights and the  elimination of a11 forms of discrimination) and the instruments of Major  Programme Area 1 (Education and the future). My delegation Will make suggestions  in Commission II which we hope Will be useful.
19.15 Mr President, international scientific co-operation has always been one  of the main areas of Unesco's work and rightly SO. We have, of course, learnt  that scientific progress is not an end in itself but must be judged by what it  achieves for the people and the environment. This has been appropriately taken  into account in the planning for Major Programme Area II. Unesco's major  programmes, such as Man and the Biosphere and co-operation in the fields of  oceanography and hydrology, serve to protect the environment and hence future  generations. By promoting the development of scientific and technological  infrastructures and thé exchange of experience and training, they at the same  time serve progress, especially also in the developing countries.
19.16 The international division of labour and CO-ordination are particularly  necessary in the field of environmental protection. Since Unesco began its  pioneering work in this field 40 years ago, other organizations both within and  outside the United Nations system have devoted themselves to this problem. Our  Organization must therefore set priorities in consultation with other  organizations. Unesco could, for instance, make a specific contribution to the  development of environmental education.
19.17 The Federal Republic of Germany supports and promotes the World Decade  for Cultural Development adopted by the 41st session of the United Nations  General Assembly. The abject of this Decade is not only to stimulate individual  programmes, but above a11 to determine the direction of political action. Hence  mY government has drawn conclusions from the fact that many development
169    co-operation projects have failed because the socio-cultural context has been  neglected. The cultural dimension of development has become an important  criterion for our co-operation with developing countries. The aim should be to  link transborder openness and cultural identity - also in the industrialized  countries - as called for in the resolutions adopted by the 1982 World  Conference on Cultural Policies.
19.18 The Director-General's draft for Major Programme Area IV of the third  Medium-Term Plan (Communication in the service of humanity) contains an  unequivocal commitment to the principle of freedom of information. This has been  warmly welcomed in my own and many other countries, for freedom of information  is a fundamental human right. 1 refer to Article 19 of the Universal Declaration  of Human Rights and Article 19.2 of the International Covenant on Civil and  Political Rights. It is rooted in the constitutions of many countries and in  international declarations and agreements that are upheld by the entire  community of nations, and not least in the Constitution of this Organization. My  government has never left any doubt that this human right is not open to  discussion, let alone negotiation. The ideological confrontation of former years  about the New World Information and Communication Order seriously damaged  Unesco's public image in many countries.
19.19 There is also an increasing awareness of the need to improve practical  conditions enabling people to receive information of a11 kinds freely. Those who  help to do SO are not only promoting the global recognition of the free flow of  information and freedom of expression as a human right; they are also helping to  remove existing disparities in the dissemination of information. My government  has already made substantial contributions towards the achievement of this aim  by very specific actions. 1 am pleased to inform the Conference, Mr President,  that we shall be making a further substantial contribution to one or several  projects under that programme next year. Thus we are concerned with two closely  interrelated aspects; assuring the free flow of information on the one hand and  increasing the capacities for communication in many parts of the world on the  other. This emerges clearly from the Director-General's draft, which we support.
19.20 However, some of the draft amendments to Major Programme Area IV  adopted by the 131st session of the Executive Board have given the impression in  many countries that the consensus on one of those elements - the principle of  freedom of information and freedom of expression - was again jeopardized. The  public cannot be left with this impression and my government would like to see  it removed by reverting to the principles contained in the Director-General's  draft. This Conference should therefore adopt a text on Major Programme Area IV  which Will restore the necessary clarity and confirm both the consensus among  Member States on the free flow of information and their mutual intention to  resume the expansion of the information media in the developing countries. We  therefore welcome the efforts undertaken in the meantime by the Director-General.
19.21 Mr President, little as Unesco cari afford unproductive political  confrontation, it does very much need intellectual confrontation. Here,  especially, Unesco has a great opportunity because, more than any other United  Nations organization, it cari be a forum for dialogue which transcends divisions  and seeks common ground in the service of world peace and human rights. Unesco's  Constitution offers sufficient scope for such dialogue.
19.22 Being a forum does not merely imply reacting to developments, but being  able to recognize and assess them early SO that policy-makers are better  equipped to tope with them. I would mention, for instance, the development of  new ethical standards for genetic engineering, which makes us capable of  unimagined achievements but at the same time imposes on us an unimagined new  responsibility. This is practically virgin territory. Unesco is called upon to  help people find their way in this little known area. It cari only do SO by  making dialogue possible, thus promoting mutual tolerance and opening the way to  global consensus.
19.23 Mr President, tackling these problems, too, is not primarily a question  of finance. In whatever we do, the main criteria are the quality of our work and  our priorities. In pursuing this course we should always bear in mind the  fruitful intellectual presumptuousness which Unesco showed at its beginning.  Thank you, Mr President.
20. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany  and 1 now invite H.E. Don Javier Solana Madariaga, Minister of Education and  Science and head of the delegation of Spain to take the floor.
(21.1) M. SOLANA MADARIAGA (Espagne) (traduit de l’espagnol) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Monsieur le Président  du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et Messieurs, qu’il me soit d’abord permis, Monsieur  le Président, de vous féliciter de votre élection, en mon nom propre et en celui de  mon pays, et de vous présenter tous mes voeux de réussite dans l’exercice d’une  fonction pour laquelle j’ose dire que vous êtes particulièrement qualifié. Vous  joignez en effet à une connaissance approfondie des problèmes de l’organisation une  grande expérience des responsabilités à la présidence d’organes de coopération  internationale tels que l’organisation des ministres de l’éducation du Sud-Est  asiatique et le programme de développement qualitatif et quantitatif de l’éducation  en cours dans votre pays coïncide parfaitement avec les priorités actuelles de
1’Unesco. Vous féliciter de votre élection, Monsieur le Président, c’est un peu nous  congratuler nous-mêmes de l’heureux choix que nous avons fait.
(21.2) Mais je tiens aussi à évoquer la personnalité de votre prédécesseur, l’émi-  nent diplomate, citoyen et hispaniste qu’est M. Guillermo Putzeys Alvarez dont
5  l’efficacité et la sagesse, au cours des deux années difficiles qui viennent de  s’écouler, constitueront longtemps encore un exemple pour nous sur la voie de la  concorde et de la concertation.
(21.3) Je souhaite également, au nom de l’Espagne, la bienvenue aux pays qui sont  devenus Etats membres de l’organisation. Leur présence nous rapproche un peu plus de  cet idéal d’universalité que nous appelons de nos voeux et constitue un précieux  apport au développement culturel, éducatif et scientifique de l’humanité.
(21.4) Monsieur le Président, voici deux ans, nous étions réunis ici même, remplis  d’espoir mais aussi d’incertitude. Nous allions discuter, réexaminer ce que nous  désirions pour l’avenir de l’unesco, cette organisation créée pour développer les  liens entre les peuples par l’éducation, la science, la culture et l’information.  Nous inspirant de ses principes, nous avons certes obtenus des résultats importants  dans ces divers domaines, mais nous avons aussi connu des périodes de réajustement,  voire de crise lorsqu’il a fallu s’adapter à des réalités, à des nécessités  nouvelles.
(21.5) C’est une de ces périodes difficiles que nous avons justement traversée  voici deux ans, à un moment où par ailleurs l’amélioration de la détente est-ouest  et la réduction des conflits justifiaient un certain optimisme. Mais l’atmosphère  était aussi alourdie par la gravité de la crise budgétaire et la conscience,  toujours présente à notre esprit, de la fragilité particulière de notre Organisation  au sein du système des Nations Unies, qui tient à la nature de ses domaines de  compétence. Les décisions que nous prenons ont incontestablement de l’importance et  il paraît donc normal de réfléchir ensemble et de dresser un bilan serein de ce qui  s’est passé au cours de l’exercice biennal écoulé. Cette réflexion et ce bilan  devraient nous permettre également d’aller de l’avant, en insistant sur ce qui nous  paraît positif, en améliorant ce qui peut l’être et en rectifiant ce qui s’est  révélé inadapté.
(21.6) Au terme de la dernière Conférence générale, deux solutions s’offraient à  nous pour réaliser la tâche que nous nous étions fixée. On pouvait soit procéder à  une transformation rapide et brutale de l’organisation, soit emprunter la voie d’une  rénovation progressive mais prudente. Comme vous le savez, c’est la deuxième voie  qui a été retenue.
(21.7) Mais le chemin de la rénovation est toujours ardu et semé d’embûches. On ne  peut pas toujours progresser en ligne droite. On peut éprouver parfois un profond  découragement lié au sentiment qu’on n’avance guère, ou pas du tout. L’élan initial  ne suffit pas. Il faut énormément de volonté et de fermeté et aussi une bonne dose  d’idéalisme. Nous savons aussi combien les premières étapes d’une réforme peuvent  être déterminantes, et plus encore peut-être le choix de l’axe où faire porter ses  efforts, mais nous savons aussi que la voie réformiste est la plus sûre, la seule  qui puisse garantir une transformation durable et solidement orientée. Il est vain  de vouloir prendre des raccourcis. Il faut savoir avancer pas à pas, en préparant  avec fermeté mais aussi avec prudence l’étape suivante.
(21.8) Rénover est chose ardue mais cela est particulièrement vrai dans le cas de  l’llnesco, car s’il est déjà difficile d’obtenir le consensus de 161 Etats membres,  l’existence de situations socio-économiques et culturelles très contrastées  complique encore la tâche. L’Unesco est par définition un lieu de rencontre entre  différentes conceptions éducatives, culturelles, scientifiques mais aussi  idéologiques. Tout ceci confirme que nous avons eu raison d’adopter la voie des  réformes et donne tort à ceux qui auraient préféré une rupture totale avec le passé  et une transformation abrupte de l’organisation. L’histoire est là pour nous  rappeler que les changements soudains, les grands mouvements de balancier sont des  phénomènes éphémères.
(21.9) Quelques-uns des changements intervenus à 1’Unesco au cours de ces deux  années me paraissent particulièrement importants. En premier lieu, le climat général  est aujourd’hui beaucoup plus calme, beaucoup plus serein. L’impression générale est  faite de détermination, de volonté de construire l’avenir. L’Organisation a rénové  en grande partie le dialogue avec les communautés scientifiques et culturelles et  elle en retire un prestige accru. L’échange d’idées et d’opinions avec les Etats  membres s’est intensifié, par l’entremise des commissions nationales et des déléga-  tions permanentes.
(21.10) Avant de poursuivre , je voudrais m’attarder sur un point qui me paraît fort  important pour notre avenir. A mon sens, il convient d’enterrer une fois pour toutes  la polémique sur le thème de la communication qui, fondée sur un malentendu, n’en a  pas moins fait beaucoup de mal à l’llnesco. C’est pourquoi, à l’occasion de cette  session de la Conférence générale et en adoptant le troisième Plan à moyen terme,  nous devons affirmer sans aucune équivoque notre adhésion claire et ferme au  principe de la liberté, de l’indépendance et du pluralisme de l’information tel  qu’il est énoncé dans notre Acte constitutif. Cela ne signifie nullement que dans ce
175    domaine comme dans les autres l’llnesco doive cesser de contribuer en tant qu’organi-  sation au service du développement, à l’amélioration des capacités techniques et des  ressources humaines des secteurs publics et privés des pays les plus défavorisés.
(21.11) Monsieur le Président, la tâche essentielle de notre Conférence générale  est de déterminer si le Plan à moyen terme et le Projet de programme et de budget  pour les années 1990-l-91 s’inscrivent dans la ligne novatrice annoncée, et dans  quelle mesure.
(21.12) J’observe d’abord que ces deux documents sont l’aboutissement d’un proces-  sus de planification concertée basé sur la participation active tant des Etats  membres que des commissions nationales, des communautés scientifiques, éducatives et  culturelles et des organisations non gouvernementales, en contact permanent avec le  Directeur général et surtout avec le Conseil exécutif. Je peux donc affirmer que le  Plan qui nous est proposé aujourd’hui est le fruit d’efforts concertés et qu’il ne  s’agit nullement d’une proposition unilatérale ou visant à imposer un point de vue  spécifique.
(21.13) Le Plan à moyen terme présente certains aspects positifs que j’aimerais  évoquer rapidement. En premier lieu, il propose dans le respect absolu des objectifs  fondamentaux de l’Organisation, un redéploiement de son action au cours des six  prochaines années qui vise à améliorer au maximum ses possibilités opérationnelles.  Le système de priorités établi à cette fin procède d’une appréciation équilibrée et  mûrement réfléchie des besoins les plus urgents et des capacités réelles d’interven-  tion de 1’Unesco en fonction des ressources intellectuelles, économiques et humaines  que l’organisation est capable de mobiliser.
(21.14) Un autre mérite du Plan est d’orienter clairement l’action de 1’Unesco vers  la recherche de solutions aux deux problèmes les plus importants auxquels soit  confrontée aujourd’hui l’humanité dans ses domaines de compétence, à savoir,  l’aggravation des grands déséquilibres entre pays développés et pays en  développement et la dégradation de l’environnement qui compromet à terme la survie  de notre planète.
(21.15) En ce qui concerne le premier point, Monsieur le Président, le Plan prévoit  de consacrer l’essentiel de l’action de 1’Unesco à une lutte opiniâtre contre  l’analphabétisme, un mal qu’il faut combattre à sa racine. C’est pourquoi nous  approuvons sans réserve l’orientation de la Conférence qui se tiendra en Thaïlande  dans la mesure où elle cherchera à favoriser une prise de conscience politique  internationale afin de conjuguer tous les efforts dans la lutte contre l’analphabé-  tisme. Nous savons bien que l’analphabétisme ne se combat pas seulement avec des  techniques éducatives. Il y faut des stratégies et des actions de caractère global,  qui risquent certes d’empiéter sur le rôle directeur de 1’Unesco en la matière, mais  l’humanité a tout à gagner à cette approche holistique.
(21.16) En ce qui concerne l’action pour la qualité de l’environnement, nous esti-  mons positifs le regroupement et la mobilisation de tous les programmes scienti-  fiques de 1’Unesco autour de cette idée, car nous pensons que l’Organisation peut et  doit utiliser l’expérience scientifique qu’elle possède incontestablement en la  matière.
(21.17) Le Plan met également l’accent sur la qualité de l’éducation et la mise en  valeur des ressources humaines, et cette insistance nous paraît tout aussi justi-  fiée. C’est là un objectif que nous partageons tous et qui justifie la refonte du  système éducatif qui est en cours dans notre pays.
(21.18) Je crois, Monsieur le Président, que c’est avec la même volonté manifeste  de participation qu’il faut aborder l’autre thème soumis à l’attention de cette  Conférence : le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1990-1991. A ce propos, je  tiens à souligner, Monsieur le Président, l’effort réalisé pour s’attaquer au  problème épineux de l’éparpillement des programmes, ainsi que la volonté de  concertation non seulement avec les autres organisations mais avec les associations  scientifiques et les organisations non gouvernementales. Je pense de même qu’il  convient de privilégier les activités de coopération multilatérale plutôt que les  projets bilatéraux entre 1’Unesco et tel ou tel Etat membre et resserrer les liens  avec le Programme général.
(21.19) Le recours à la technique des projets mobilisateurs et des projets spéciaux  nous paraît très prometteur à condition qu’on en use avec les précautions voulues et  avec le dispositif de soutien administratif approprié. C’est peut-être là une voie  d’avenir pour l’action de 1’Unesco.
(21.20) Monsieur le Président, mon gouvernement est disposé à approuver le renfor-  cement budgétaire de 2,s % réclamé par le Directeur général car il lui semble rai-  sonnable. Bien que nous défendions en règle générale le principe de la croissance  zéro, nous reconnaissons qu’il faut savoir faire des exceptions lorsque des circons-  tances extraordinaires le justifient et pensons que c’est précisément le cas pour
1’Unesco aujourd’hui.
(21.21) C’est pourquoi, Monsieur le Président, et sous réserve des modifications  que ma délégation proposera auprès des commissions compétentes, nous donnons notre  accord aussi bien au Plan à moyen terme qu’au Projet de programme et de budget pour
(21.22) Monsieur le Président, la voie des réformes ne peut ni ne doit s’arrêter  avec l’approbation du Plan et du Programme. Le processus que nous avons entamé doit  être mené à son terme. Et s’il est vrai que le bilan des deux années écoulées est,  comme je l’ai déjà dit, considérable, la tâche qui nous attend l’est peut-être plus  encore. A cet égard, et dans l’esprit de coopération le plus convaincu, qu’il me  soit permis d’énumérer quelques-uns des problèmes qui me paraissent toujours en  suspens.
(21.23) En premier lieu, j’estime que le processus de planification doit s’étendre  à l’examen et à l’approbation des futurs programmes et budgets, l’élaboration de  chaque document fournisssant l’occasion d’une réévaluation stratégique du Plan à  moyen terme. Si l’on veut que celui-ci soit souple et flexible, il faut le réviser  de façon quasi permanente pour qu’il contribue à dynamiser l’action de l’organisa-  tion. Tout en approuvant et en appréciant à leur juste valeur les efforts de concen-  tration réalisés aussi bien dans le Plan que dans le Programme, je n’en répète pas  moins que les résultats restent insuffisants et que la concentration doit être  accrue.
(21.24) Dans un autre ordre d’idées, Monsieur le Président, il m’apparaît vital  pour l’Organisation d’instaurer une véritable politique de décentralisation. Le  centralisme en vigueur est à la fois lourd et coûteux, et il constitue un obstacle à  des relations plus directes avec les Etats et les associations scientifiques et  culturelles.
(21.25) Nous pensons que 1’Unesco est une organisation mal connue et sous-utilisée,  et qu’elle n’est pas toujours bien informée de ce qui se passe à l’extérieur. C’est  pourquoi, entre autres choses, un effort de développement et d’amélioration de la  communication s’impose.
(21.26) Finalement, il conviendra, selon nous, de redoubler d’efforts pour doter  l’Organisation d’un système administratif moderne et efficace. Nous attendons tou-  jours une véritable réforme en profondeur de l’administration de 1’Unesco.
(21.27) Je ne voudrais pas terminer cette partie de mon intervention, Monsieur le  Président, sans évoquer un problème qui nous touche particulièrement, à savoir  l’utilisation de la langue espagnole à 1’Unesco. Tout le monde sait que l’espagnol  n’a pas, tant dans les conférences et réunions de 1’Unesco que dans la documentation  et encore moins dans les publications la place que justifie son importance actuelle  en tant que langue vernaculaire et langue officielle d’un grand nombre d’Etats  membres. S’il est vrai qu’un souci d’économies oblige à des restrictions touchant  l’utilisation des diverses langues, ces restrictions doivent s’appliquer à toutes et  pas seulement à certains d’entre elles. Renonçant volontairement à recourir aux sta-  tistiques, je me contenterai d’évoquer la non-application persistante des résolu-  tions de la Confërence générale. Si nous voulons que notre Organisation soit authen-  tiquement universelle, et c’est là notre désir à tous, nous devons faire en sorte  qu’elle soit universellement comprise. C’est pourquoi, je lance à cette tribune,  d’une voix à la fois sereine et ferme, un appel solennel pour que soient intégrale-  ment appliquées les résolutions de la Conférence générale concernant l’utilisation  de l’espagnol.
(21.28) Permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, de me tourner maintenant vers le  Directeur général. Mon pays a toujours affirmé que quelle que soit sa nationalité,  le Directeur général pourrait toujours compter sur son appui et sa confiance a  condition qu’il exécute la volonté des organes directeurs de l’organisation, qu’il  propose des plans et programmes imprégnés d’un esprit créatif et novateur, qu’il  sache inspirer la confiance et l’estime grâce à une politique de transparence,  enfin, qu’il soit capable d’instaurer un climat de compréhension mutuelle entre  l’Organisation et les Etats membres.
(21.29) Monsieur le Directeur général, vous avez su démontrer au cours des deux  premières années de votre mandat que vous étiez à la hauteur de ces circonstances  difficiles et nous sommes pleinement convaincus qu’il en sera également ainsi à  l’avenir. C’est pourquoi mon pays n’a cessé et ne cessera de vous apporter son  soutien total et d’accroître substantiellement sa participation au sein de 1’Unesco.
(21.30) Dans le même ordre d’idées, et parce que nous croyons à la coopération  internationale, l’Espagne a décidé de concrétiser cette volonté politique renforcée  en se dotant d’un secrétariat d’Etat spécialisé et d’une agence espagnole de coopé-  ration qui dépendra de lui. Cette nouvelle organisation a permis d’élaborer et  d’adopter un plan national de coopération internationale pour coordonner les initia-  tives en la matière et gérer les fonds, en nette augmentation, destinés à les  financer .
(21.31) Au cours de l’exercice biennal écoulé, la coopération entre l’Espagne et
1’Unesco a pris de nombreuses formes qui méritent d’être rappelées : nous avons  accru notre participation à tous les organes et organismes dépendant de 1’Unesco.  Convaincus depuis toujours que le Projet majeur dans le domaine de l’éducation en  Amérique latine et dans les Caraïbes constituait l’initiative la plus importante de
1’Unesco pour assurer une éducation digne et ouverte à tcus dans cette région, nous  avons non seulement collaboré activement au projet, mais nous nous sommes engagés à  doubler notre participation. Conscients des insuffisances et des besoins de  l’Afrique, nous avons effectué une première contribution volontaire à l’important  projet régional d’alphabétisation pour cette région et nous envisageons son élargis-  sement à d’autres régions.
(21.32) Personne ne s’étonnera, Monsieur le Président, si j’insiste sur deux thèmes  d’actualité qui intéressent particulièrement mon pays. L’Espagne a activement  coopéré, par l’entremise de sa Commission nationale, à la mise sur pied sous l’égide  de 1’Unesco du pavillon des Nations Unies lors de l’exposition universelle de  Séville de 1992. Le deuxième thème qui nous tient particulièrement à coeur est la  commémoration du cinquième centenaire de la rencontre de deux mondes à laquelle
1 ‘Unesco a décidé de s’associer parce qu’elle estime que le processus historique  ainsi enclenché a abouti à une meilleure compréhension entre les peuples ; c’est  pourquoi je suis très heureux, Monsieur le Président, de vous informer que mon pays  entend contribuer d’ici à 1992 à hauteur de plus d’un demi-million de dollars au  programme “Unesco cinquième centenaire”. Nous souhaitons ainsi aider le programme à  mettre en lumière les profondes transformations qu’a connues le monde depuis  l’époque des grandes découvertes, à recueillir les témoignages des cultures  indigènes d’Amérique et à revaloriser et préserver le patrimoine culturel du Nouveau  Monde.
(21.33) Monsieur le Président, notre contribution aux programmes de l’llnesco  exprime la volonté de coopération d’un pays qui se sent solidaire de tous les autres  mais elle reflète aussi notre foi dans l’Organisation et notre confiance en son  avenir. Comme le déclarait Sa Majesté le roi d’Espagne le 12 octobre dernier à  l’occasion de notre fête nationale “il ne me paraît pas inutile de rappeler qu’au-  jourd’hui l’isolement et le repli sur soi ne sont pas les moyens qui permettent à un  Etat de maîtriser son propre destin. Nous habitons tous un monde d’interdépendance  dominé par les communications, le progrès technologique et les échanges écono-  miques”. Et il terminait par ces mots : “cela explique la nécessité pour tous les  Etats de s’intégrer à des ensembles plus vastes”.
(21.34) Pour terminer, Monsieur le Président, je voudrais répéter ma conviction que  notre Organisation a toujours un rôle décisif à jouer dans l’édification de ce monde  de solidarité et d’échanges mutuels qui ne pourra se réaliser qu’avec la participa-  tion pleine et entière de tous. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
22.  (M. Mboui, Cameroun, prend la présidence)  Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation espagnole pour sa brillante inter-  vention et j ’ invite maintenant S. Ext. M. Manuel Francisco Becerra  ministre de l'éducation et chef de la délégation de la Colombie,  Barney,  à prendre la  parole.
(23.1) M. BECERRA BARNEY (Colombie) (traduit de l’espagnol) :  Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs,  j’adresse au nom de la République de Colombie, de son Président, M. Virgilio Barco  Vargas et de son gouvernement, un fraternel salut à cette Assemblée plénière de  l’Organisation des Nations Unies pour l’éducation, la science et la culture et  j’exprime les voeux de mon pays pour le succès de ses délibérations.
(23.2) Près d’un demi-siècle après la création de l’Unesc0, le gouvernement  colombien souhaite réaffirmer à cette tribune son adhésion aux principes moraux du  système des Nations Unies et à l’idéal de défense de la paix, d’un développement  équitable, du respect des droits de l’homme et de la protection de l’environnement.
(23.3) La mission de l’kesco au sein du système des Nations Unies est complexe :  il s’agit de contribuer à l’enrichissement du patrimoine culturel de l’humanité par  le dialogue entre les cultures et l’exploration d’horizons nouveaux afin d’affirmer  sous toutes les latitudes la dignité et l’égalité de tous les hommes. Cette fonction  spécifique ne saurait justifier qu’on assigne à l’llnesco un rôle isolé ou marginal  dans le concert des organismes de coopération internationale. La réussite de sa  mission dépend du degré d’intégration avec le reste des entités constituées par la  volonté des Etats membres en vue de réaliser l’idéal de la communauté mondiale.
(23.4) La tâche de 1’Unesco n’est pas simple car la culture, attribut spécifique  de l’espèce humaine, est le produit très complexe de son évolution, le signe de sa  liberté, le code qui détient les clés de son passé et le secret de son avenir. Main-  tenir vivant l’appel de la culture en tant que promesse pour toute l’humanité à  l’aube déjà si proche du nouveau millénaire exige un équilibre délicat entre la  continuité et l’innovation, le respect de la diversité des cultures et l’enrichisse-  ment du dialogue interculturel, l’incitation aux multiples actions que recouvre ce  concept et la nécessité d’en préserver l’unité.
(23.5) En matière de culture, les besoins sont toujours infinis et les moyens  limités. Les aspirations sont multiples, les préférences diverses, d’où la nécessité  d’un critère d’action qui dégage un consensus sur l’essentiel parmi les diverses  voies possibles. Aussi adhérons-nous totalement au Projet de plan à moyen terme  soumis à l’examen de cette instance. Partant du principe “faire moins pour faire  mieux”, ce document assigne à l’action de l’lïnesco des objectifs stratégiques  choisis à l’issue d’un processus judicieux de consultations avec les Etats membres.
(23.6) Il est évident que 1’Unesco ne peut jouer cette partie isolément. La réus-  site de l’entreprise dépend largement du degré d’engagement des Etats membres. Il ne  suffit pas d’une délégation passive de pouvoirs. Chacun de nous est un rouage de  l’Organisation, c’est nous tous qui sommes 1’Unesco. Mais il faut aussi souligner le  rôle de médiateur de l’Organisation. L’interface avec les autres organismes du sys-  tème des Nations Unies est très vaste de même que les possibilités de coopération  avec les diverses entités multinationales. Le gouvernement colombien tient à souli-  gner cette volonté renouvelée d’affirmer la fonction de catalyseur de 1’Unesco qui  sous-tend le Projet de plan à moyen terme et se cristallise dans les lignes de pro-  grammations communes avec de multiples organisations de différente nature.
(23.7) La Conférence mondiale sur l’éducation pour tous prévue pour l’an prochain  sous l’égide de l’Unesco, du PNUD, du Fonds des Nations Unies pour l’enfance et de  la Banque mondiale constitue à cet égard un bon exemple. Le gouvernement colombien  qui a décidé de privilégier l’accès universel à l’enseignement primaire dans son  pays est persuadé que cette Conférence favorisera la réalisation de cet objectif
181    commun et entend y concourir grâce à son expérience et à sa coopération. Dans le  même ordre d’idées, le gouvernement colombien a approuvé la proclamation de la  Décennie mondiale pour le développement culturel (1988-1997) et réaffirme à cette  tribune son appui à un projet qui contribuera à renforcer la coopération  internationale.
(23.8) La revalorisation de la culture doit ouvrir la voie à un nouveau type de  développement. Car la culture, c’est une meilleure appréciation et une meilleure  gestion de l’environnement, une contribution stratégique à la croissance grâce à  l’impulsion donnée à la créativité dans tous les domaines, l’harmonisation des  objectifs de développement, des aspirations et des valeurs humaines, et de nouvelles  formes de vie en société fondées sur le respect des droits de l’homme.
(23.9) La Colombie accorde un intérêt particulier à la coopération culturelle  régionale, qui contribue à l’édification d’un monde nouveau. La Convention sur la  libre circulation des biens culturels due à l’initiative du Groupe dit “des huit”  est ouverte à tous les pays de la région d’Améri.que latine et des Caraïbes qui sou-  haitent y adhérer. Dans la même perspective, la Colombie a signé en août dernier la  Déclaration historique de Brasilia, qui rassemble et mobilise les 33 Etats de la  région d’Amérique latine et des Caraïbes dans un même projet de rapprochement  culturel.
(23.10) Le gouvernement colombien estime que ce cadre d’intégration régionale pour-  rait être élargi aux domaines de l’éducation, de la science et de la technologie. Un  tel scénario pourrait aboutir à un renforcement de la collaboration interrégionale  et à une meilleure coopération avec 1’Unesco dans de multiples domaines comme la  réforme de l’enseignement supérieur, les échanges scientifiques et technologiques et  d’une manière générale l’intégration de la culture et de l’éducation, de la science  et de la technologie. Les inégalités du développement s’aggravent dans la mesure où  les pays du tiers monde, dont nous faisons partie, n’ont pas pleinement accès à la  recherche scientifique, seul garant d’un véritable transfert des technologies. C’est  là un nouveau défi qu’il nous faut relever sans tarder. En somme, il s’agit de  penser un modèle de coopération des Etats de la région d’Amérique latine et des  Caraïbes ouvrant la voie à une forme de développement qui intègre de façon plus  systématique la dimension culturelle. Cela nous permettrait de mieux jouer notre  rôle de coparticipants à la mission universelle de 1’Unesco.
(23.11) Le gouvernement colombien a accordé une importance particulière à ces  aspects, compte tenu de la situation critique de la région. Au début de la Décennie  mondiale pour le développement culturel (1988-1997), on constatait que le PIB par  habitant de la région d’Amérique latine et des Caraïbes avait diminué de 6,6 % en  huit ans. En fait, notre région transfère actuellement vers les pays à hauts revenus
4 % des richesses qu’elle produit, alors qu’au cours de la décennie précédente, près  de 2 % de son produit intérieur brut provenait d’autres régions et servait d’amorce  à son décollage économique. Cette inversion des flux financiers est due à la dégra-  dation des termes de l’échange,,-à l’alourdissement du coût des remboursements de  capital et de paiement des interets et aux restrictions mises par les marchés finan-  ciers aux nouveaux apports de capitaux.
(23.12) Les résultats sont évidents. L’érosion des revenus familiaux est aggravée  par la diminution de la capacité d’investissement sociaux des gouvernements. Le pro-  cessus de paupérisation de la région s’accélère et bon nombre d’indicateurs straté-  giques du développement social comme la scolarité, la mortalité infantile, la  consommation de calories trahissent un net tassement quand il ne s’agit pas d’une  régression pure et simple. Au cours de ce qu’on appelle déjà dans la région la  “décennie perdue” pour le développement, on a vu s’accumuler un énorme déficit  social qui vient trop souvent contrarier les aspirations démocratiques des peuples.  La région ne peut pas courir le risque d’une seconde décennie de croissance négative  qui l’acculerait au désespoir. C’est le même processus que l’on observe, sous une  forme peut-être encore plus dramatique, dans la région de l’Afrique subsaharienne.
(23.13) Il faut donc agir, et agir avec un sentiment d’urgence et de solidarité  internationale. Il serait vain de proposer des solutions unilatérales car il faut  faire intervenir de multiples partenaires pour apporter une solution à cette crise  de structure. Nos pays ont expérimenté divers plans de redressement, orthodoxes ou  non, sans découvrir la solution miracle qui concilierait les nécessités de la survie  dans l’immédiat et l’impératif d’une croissance soutenue. Un large effort de coopé-  ration internationale s’impose dans le cadre d’une volonté de solidarité mondiale.  Comme le suggère le Projet de plan à moyen terme, 1’Unesco peut contribuer à cet  effort en faisant mieux connaître et comprendre la nature du problème et les respon-  sabilités multilatérales dans la crise qui affecte les régions de l’Afrique sub-  saharienne, de l’Amérique latine et des Caraïbes.
(23.14) Mon pays a décidé d’assumer, avec tous les risques que cela comporte,  l’initiative d’une croisade contre la production, le trafic et la consommation illi-  cites de stupéfiants. Plus qu’aucune autre nation, la Colombie a payé le prix du
5  sang versé par ses ministres, magistrats, sénateurs, juges, policiers, fonction-  naires, journalistes ou simples citoyens au service d’une cause qui devrait mobi-  liser l’humanité tout entière, étant donné les aspects multilatéraux du problème. La  Colombie espère que son effort sera apprécié à sa juste valeur et servira d’exemple  pour que soit pris à l’échelle internationale l’engagement de soutenir cette cause  qui intéresse directement la dignité humaine. La production, le trafic et la  consommation illicites de stupéfiants apportent une nouvelle preuve de la nécessité  d’élaborer un nouveau code éthique à l’échelle de la planète. La civilisation qui a  produit les plus grandes conquêtes matérielles et techniques de l’humanité paraît  désemparée face au mal de vivre qui détourne tant de gens vers les paradis artifi-  ciels, permettant à ceux qui exploitent cette dépendance d’en tirer des profits  qu’ils sont prêts à défendre à n’importe quel prix. C’est au niveau de l’explication  rationnelle de ces processus que l’llnesco peut apporter un concours précieux.  Peut-être serait-il extrêmement important d’organiser dans ce domaine une enquête  interdisciplinaire pour faire la lumière sur des phénomènes encore mal connus malgré  leur incidence quotidienne sur la vie des gens. En tout cas, dans l’immédiat, il est  urgent que toutes les nations s’engagent solidairement dans une entreprise qui ne  peut se limiter aux efforts héroïques d’un seul pays.
(23.15) Aujourd’hui plus que jamais, l’éducation apparaît comme la solution propre  à enrayer enfin ce fléau ; ce besoin d’éducation se fait largement sentir aussi bien  dans les pays développés que dans les pays en développement ; c’est pourquoi le  moment est venu pour nous d’oublier les querelles du passé pour nous mobiliser tous  ensemble. Quand je dis tous, je pense aussi aux pays qui ne font pas actuellement  partie de l’Organisation mais dont la jeunesse est empoisonnée par les narcotiques  afin que de ce lieu, du sein de l’unesco, nous puissicns lancer un programme  universel de lutte contre la consommation de stupéfiants ; incontestablement, c’est  la seule solution qui nous permettra de sortir du labyrinthe infernal où se trouvent  enfermées les jeunes générations des pays paradoxalement les plus avancés. C’est  ici, en cette tribune par excellence des spécialistes de l’éducation, que nous  devons associer nos efforts unanimes pour élaborer très vite un programme mondial de  sensibilisation de la jeunesse aux dangers de la drogue afin de l’en détourner.
(23.16) Monsieur le Directeur général, vous avez récemment visité notre pays et  vous avez pu constater sur place les efforts consacrés par notre nation à la  poursuite de divers objectifs : généralisation de l’enseignement primaire de base,  réduction substantielle de l’analphabétisme, programme d’éducation préscolaire et  création de dispensaires familiaux, sans oublier notre programme quinquennal pour le  développement de la science et de la technologie, la proclamation d’une Année de la  culture dans le cadre de la Décennie mondiale et notre politique active de  protection de l’environnement. Nous sommes fiers que certains de ces programmes  comme les nouvelles écoles rurales ou les dispensaires familiaux aient été choisis  comme exemples d’expériences réussies pour la prochaine Conférence mondiale de  l’éducation qui se réunira en Thaïlande en mars prochain. Cela nous encourage à  poursuivre notre collaboration avec 1’Unesco pour réaliser les objectifs du Projet  majeur dans le domaine de l’éducation en Amérique latine et dans les Caraïbes.
(23.17) La Colombie souhaite exprimer sa satisfaction devant les progrès notoires  réalisés par l’organisation des Nations Unies pour l’éducation, la science et la  culture et en félicite la direction générale à laque!.le elle renouvelle sa confiance  pour l’avenir. En même temps, elle tient à vous remercier, Monsieur le Directeur  général, de la solidarité que vous avez exprimée dans les moments difficiles et  déterminants que vit actuellement notre peuple et de l’appui sans réserve que vous  avez apporté au Président Barco Vargas dans sa lutte courageuse contre la  multinationale de la drogue et du crime.
(23.18) Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les délégués, la responsabilité de
1’Unesco au cours des six années du Projet de plan à moyen terme est immense. Cette  période sera marquée par le cinquième centenaire de la découverte de l’Amérique et  de la rencontre de deux mondes. Cette commémoration intervient à l’approche du  prochain millénaire dont on ignore s’il marquera un progrès ou une régression pour  l’humanité et en particulier pour les habitants de l’Afrique subsaharienne et de  l’Amérique latine et des Caraïbes, ces deux régions qui ont été rapprochées l’une de  l’autre par cet événement fondateur du monde moderne. Mais pour accomplir cette  mission, il faut que 1’Unesco retrouve au cours de cette période son caractère  universel. Je vous remercie.
24. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Colombie. J’invite maintenant  S. Ext. M. Alf redo Vera, ministre de l’éducation et chef de la délégation de
1 ‘Equateur, à prendre la parole. Ce sera le dernier orateur pour ce matin.
(25.1) M. VERA (Equateur) (traduit de l'espagnol) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Messieurs les membres  du Bureau, Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation, Mesdames, Messieurs, le  gouvernement équatorien de M. Rodrigo Borja ne peut qu’adresser ses félicitations à  vous Monsieur le Président et à vous, Monsieur le Directeur général, pour le succès  de cette vingt-cinquième session extrêmement importante de la Conférence générale.  Nous sommes heureux de nous associer aux efforts de tous pour ouvrir à l’humanité,  par le biais des objectifs définis par les Nations Unies en général et 1’LJnesco en  particulier, une perspective d’espoir, de solidarité et de fraternité et répondre  ainsi aux aspirations de tous les peuples du monde.
(25.2) Le Directeur général a eu raison de rappeler que 1’Unesco doit se tenir à  l’écart des querelles politiques et idéologiques ; mais tout en étant d’accord avec  lui sur ce point, nous voudrions rappeler que l’Equateur a à sa tête depuis le
10 août 1988 un gouvernement socialiste et démocratique, issu de la volonté  populaire ; et ce gouvernement fait tout ce qui est en son pouvoir pour réinsérer  notre pays dans le concert des nations et donner à notre peuple des possibilités  nouvelles de développement qui tiennent compte non pas exclusivement des impératifs  économiques mais aussi et surtout des impératifs sociaux.
(25.3) Comme le Président du peuple équatorien aime à le répéter, nous considérons  la paix comme notre arme principale dans la lutte pour le développement. Pour nous,  changer la vie c’est s’appuyer sur une exigence de justice sociale, sur la démocra-  tie, l’égalité des droits et la participation. Malheureusement, améliorer la vie des  gens prend beaucoup plus de temps que de ruiner la paix, la tranquillité et l’écono-  mie des peuples. Nos pays, ceux du tiers monde, ceux d’Amérique latine et en parti-  culier ceux de notre région, sont soumis à des pressions qui les enferment dans une  véritable camisole de force ; mais ces pressions ne sont nullement liées à notre  réalité sociale, car elles nous sont imposées de l’extérieur.
(25.4) La dette extérieure, la dictature, le mépris des droits de l’homme et la  nouvelle vague de terreur associée au trafic de la drogue ont pour origine des  démarches et des comportements qui n’ont pas leurs racines dans notre peuple. En  fait, comme l’a si bien dit notre collègue colombien, nous sommes obligés d’intégrer  des conduites et des valeurs culturelles qui ne correspondent nullement à ce qui  intéresse vraiment notre peuple. Et s’il pouvait écouter vraiment ses aspirations,  notre pays préférerait de beaucoup trouver sa propre identité culturelle plutôt que  d’avoir à éduquer les enfants et les jeunes pour les empêcher de goûter à la drogue.  Mais nous sommes directement concernés par les problèmes de la région de de  l’humanité tout entière, et dans de telles circonstances il est indispensable que  nous fassions du développement notre objectif, à la recherche de la justice sociale  et de la liberté, Pour nous, pour notre gouvernement, l’éducation est l’alpha et  l’oméga du développement, elle en est la base fondamentale. C’est pourquoi, comme le  Directeur général a pu le constater en visitant récemment notre pays, notre gouver-  nement encourage en priorité les activités éducatives. Mais nous savons bien que  l’éducation n’est pas seulement l’élément de base du développement social. C’est  pourquoi notre pays a décidé de se doter d’un instrument nouveau en créant un front  d’action sociale auquel participeront les ministères de la santé, de la protection  sociale, du travail et de l’éducation ; en effet, nous sommes résolus à sortir du  cercle vicieux du sous-développement dans lequel nos pays sont enfermés pour les  raisons que je viens de mentionner, et ces efforts commencent à porter leurs fruits.  Les premiers résultats ont coïncidé précisément avec l’organisation d’une campagne  nationale d’alphabétisation universelle, intensive et démocratique d’une ampleur  sans précédent dans notre pays ; les seules expériences comparables dans notre  région avaient une portée beaucoup plus réduite ou plus étroitement spécialisée,  même si elles ont eu un retentissement considérable dans les pays organisateurs.
(25.5) Une autre initiative qui nous permet de sortir de l’ornière du sous-  développement est l’enseignement bilingue interculturel ayant pour but de préserver  l’identité des ethnies indigènes. C’est avec dynamisme que nous abordons le problème  de l’éducation en période de crise. Nous voulons donner à nos jeunes, à nos enfants,
185    le savoir-faire qui vienne compléter leur formation intégrale. Dans ce contexte,  c’est avec un grand enthousiasme que nous avons accueilli la proposition de 1’Unesco  d’organiser en Thaïlande la Conférence mondiale sur l’éducation pour tous parce que  ses objectifs sont les nôtres. Nous appuyons sans restriction les propos du Direc-  teur général sur la nécessité de donner un coup de semonce afin que l’humanité com-  prenne que le moment est venu d’investir dans la paix les ressources consacrées à la  guerre.
(25.6) Nous sommes extrêmement fiers de la confiance que nous ont témoignée  l’unesco, l’Unicef, le PNUD et la Banque mondiale en choisissant Quito, notre capi-  tale, pour y organiser le 28 novembre prochain la Conférence régionale pour l’Amé-  rique latine ; au-delà de l’expression de notre gratitude, nous voudrions renouveler  nos invitations aux ministres de la région et aux délégués présents à la Conférence  générale qui souhaiteraient participer à cette manifestation à titre d’observateurs.  L’éducation pour tous c’est définir une voie de développement vers une société inté-  grée, et concrétiser sans plus attendre notre volonté d’associer l’ensemble de la  société au processus de production et à l’exercice de ses droits. Pour cela, il est  indispensable que nous puissions également développer le secteur de la science et de  la technologie car c’est la meilleure façon d’affirmer la souveraineté de nos  peuples et de notre région.
(25.7) Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, nous voudrions que  cette Conférence termine ses travaux sur une note d’espoir et d’optimisme. Nous  approuvons les efforts de 1’Unesco et de son Directeur général en vue de ramener au  sein de l’organisation les pays qui ont laissé provisoirement leur siège vide. Nous  appuyons sans restrictions les efforts des organismes de coopération internationale  pour accorder une importance accrue aux aspects sociaux et pas seulement économiques  du développement. Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, je vous  remercie.
26. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le Chef de la délégation de l’Equateur. La liste des ora-  teurs pour cette séance du matin est épuisée. La séance est levée.  La séance est levée à 13 h.50  The meeting rose at 1.50 p.m.  Se levanta la sesiQn a las 13.50  %iCCJlaHHe 3aKpbIBaCTCX B 13. 50  J+ldI JA+ \,o. -LUI j LA+I cIA>