Sixième séance plénière
19 octobre 1989, à 15 h 10  Président : M. ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaisie)  Sixth plenary meeting
19 October 1989 at 3.10 p.m.  President: Mr ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaysia)  Sexta ses& plenaria
187    DEUXIEME RAPPORT SUPPLEMENTAIRE DE LA PRESIDENTE DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES  POUVOIRS/SECOND SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT BY THE CHAIRWOMAN OF THE CREDENTIALS  COMMITTEE/SEGUNDO INFORME SUPLEMENTARIO DE LA PRESIDENTA DEL COMITE DE  VERIFICACION DE PODERES/  BTOPO~~O~O~HMT~~bHbI~~OKJI~IIPE~CE~ATEJIIIKOM~TETA~O~POBEPKE~O~HOMO~~~  J~~l~~J~-~~~jwlLpL;i~l~~l  ftiiïE#~!i-!6~~%~&~~%~6 - -
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the sixth plenary meeting is called  to order. As we do not have a quorum, 1 Will adjourn the meeting for five  minutes as provided for in Rule 69.3 of the Rules of Procedure, and, with your  agreement, we shall then proceed with our business.  (The meeting was adjourned for five minutes)
1.2 If you have no objection, 1 Will proceed by reading out the second  supplementary report by the Chairwoman of the Credentials Committee:  'Since the last report was submitted to the General Conference (on
18 October 1989) credentials in due form have been received from  Argentina, Belgium and the United Arab Emirates.  Credentials in due form have also been received from Saudi Arabia and  Austria, which had previously submitted provisional credentials.  In pursuance of the authorization given to me by the Credentials  Committee, 1 propose that these credentials be accepted by the General  Conference.  Provisional credentials have been submitted in respect of Djibouti. 1  propose that these credentials be accepted, subject to later  presentation of credentials in due form and that, in the meanwhile, the  delegation of Djibouti be allowed to take part in the work of the  present session of the General Conference.'
1.3 1s it your wish to take note of the report? 1 see no objection.
1.4 It is SO decided.  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuation)  O6CY>K~EHMEBOlIPOCOBOB~EÈIUOJlMTMKM(fIPO~OJl>KEHME)  (pL) bWI Lui LLiL  imlwR& (r-l:)
2. The PRESIDENT:  The first speaker on the list this afternoon is H.E. Mr Abdel-Razek Al  Yahya, Minister of Higher Education and head of the delegation of Palestine. He  has the floor.
(3.1) Mr AL YAHYA (Palestine)(Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, heads of delegations,  ladies and gentlemen, 1 am pleased to have been afforded the opportunity to  congratulate you once again, Mr President, on your election to the presidency of  this important session. We wish you every success in the task of enabling this  General Conference to attain the desired results.
(3.2) Mr President, we consider Unesco to be an important and necessary framework  for international exchanges and dialogue between peoples. As it is an organization  which nurtures a multiplicity of ideas and cultures and provides a forum for  dialogue between them, our hope is that the resulting mutual understanding and  constructive co-operation will take the form of projects and activities implemented  within the context of a reasonable and acceptable balance between the two halves of  the North and the South in a11 its diversity. For the same reason, we would cal1 for  a balance to be struck between the officia1 representation of governments and that  of intellectuals and scholars. Similarly, we would ask a11 those who believe in the  role and mission of Unesco not to view the Organization from a restricted standpoint  and to see it merely as a government organ for tecbnical aid and co-operation. It is  in this light that we understand the third Medium-Term Plan, the consensus of the  Executive Board and its recommendation to the General Conference.
(3.3) We highly appreciate the concern of the Director-General and the Executive  Board to respect balance and harmony between the roles of the three Unesco bodies  and their three partners. The plan calls for Unesco to embrace the developments of  our richly varied world, for constructive interaction between cultures, for an end  to the monopoly of information and for progress in facing up to threats to the  environment. The abject of a11 this is to serve mankind, to raise the awareness of  peace in hearts and minds and to develop the human conscience SO that it is  receptive to love and peace. We are confident that Unesco, through firmness and  solidarity, Will prove capable of overcoming a11 obstacles, whether interna1 or  external, and of thwarting a11 attempts to control its activities and projects.
(3.4) Mr President, neither our view of Unesco’s role and of the draft plan  submitted for the approval of the Conference nor the dangers still facing the  Organization cari be separated from the question of the universality of Unesco. In  this regard, we believe that the decision taken by the last General Conference may  have had an effect which is the opposite of what was intended. Thus, we hope that,  after the necessary evaluation, the decision Will be reviewed.
(3.5) Mr President, the efforts being exerted to achieve universality must never  be allowed to jeopardize Unesco’s raison d’être. 1 cannot believe that anyone would  accept a universality of the large at the expense of the small or a universality  extending only to the State and not to the creative work of scientists and scholars,  artists and intellectuals. Al1 the more SO is this true in an age when State  centralism - whether deliberately or unintentionally - has limited freedom of  thought and restricted the expansion of intellectual activity. Thus, with the same  sense of objectivity and responsibility which led us to defer Palestine’s membership  of Unesco until the next session, we state sincerely and out of concern for the  interests of the Organization that we would welcome the return of the United Kingdom  and the United States of America. At the same time, however, we would state that  there must be corresponding efforts to bring about the return of Singapore and the  membership of Palestine. Furthermore, no less an effort must be made to involve the  world’s scientists and scholars in Unesco’s work. Unless this is done, our  universality Will be no more than a charade.
(3.6) Mr President, in this context, Israel’s delegate has made very serious  claims, alleging some so-called ‘responsibility of Israel and its role in improving  the living conditions of the Palestinian people’. This, we consider to be wholly  false, illegitimate and contrary to both international treaties and the principles  of international law. Moreover, as the claims are also contrary to the tragic  reality of Palestinian life under Israel’s odious occupation, allow me,  Mr President, to recall the following facts: firstly, almost half the Palestinians  live under Israeli occupation, with the remainder of the people scattered in the
191    diaspora or huddled in refugee camps under constant bombardment from the Israeli air  force; secondly, no less than 45 per cent of the land belonging to Palestinians in  the occupied territories has been confiscated by the occupation authorities to  establish illegal Israeli settlements; thirdly, some 125,000 fruit trees have been  tut down by the Israeli occupation authorities on land belonging to Palestinian  farmers and other crops have been destroyed; fourthly, water sources belonging to  Palestinians have been seized by the Israeli occupation authorities and diverted to  Israel or to illegal Israeli settlements, thus depriving the rightful owners of the  use of their water.
(3.7) Mr President, 1 should like to ask whether Israel’s delegate would have us  believe that the $35 billion forcibly obtained by the authorities from our people  during the 22 years of the occupation have really been used to improve the living  standards of the Palestinians. 1s it not rather the case that their money was  plundered and used to keep them under control ? Did not the United Nations Security  Council only two weeks ago pass a resolution unanimously condemning the violent  methods being used by the Israeli authorities to collect taxes from Palestinians in  the occupied territories ? 1 do not think that anyone Will be unaware of the events  in the Palestinian town of Beit Sahour where the Israeli occupation forces have been  using the pretext of tax collecting to carry out a campaign of house raids in order  to confiscate shopkeepers’ stocks or household furnishings and domestic appliances  like television sets, washing machines, freezers and refrigerators, to be auctioned  off in the occupying State.
(3.8) Mr President, though we could explore this question further, suffice it to  ask Mr Power, Assistant Director-General for the Education Sector, about the  obstacles he faces in sending technical equipment to Palestinian universities in the  occupied territories. The Israeli occupation authorities charge non-refundable  customs duties of 100 to 120 per cent on every item, a practice which does not apply  to Israeli universities. It would appear that the greed of the occupation  authorities, which has grown out of their unchecked power to plunder the property of  our people, may also have encouraged Israel’s delegate here to look for ways to  appropriate aid given by Unesco for the purpose of alleviating the sufferings of our  people under the occupation.
(3.9) Mr President, 1 might not be believed if, as one example among many, 1 told  you that when the Israeli occupation forces demolish a Palestinian’s home, they make  him pay the cost of the bulldozer used to do the job. Given such cruelty, we would  not be surprised if the Israelis made Palestinian detainees pay the cost of their  detention or Palestinian parents the price of the bullets used by the occupation  forces to kil1 and maim their children. Al1 the repressive measures used against the  population of the occupied Palestinian territories - the breaking of limbs, the  daily killings, the detentions, the collective punishments, the curfews, the closing  of schools, universities and cultural centres, the desecration of Christian and  Islamic places of worship, and the like - are paid for out of taxes which the  occupation authorities impose by armed force. Our people are obliged to pay for  their own persecution and repression. And yet, despite a11 this, we hear Israel’s  delegate asking you for financial aid towards these crimes, crimes which must  scandalize any human being living in freedom on this planet.
(3.10) Mr President, Israel must realize that this is not the nineteenth Century;  that, thanks to technological progress and astounding advances in  telecommunications, propaganda lies no longer have the power to deceive and the  existence of a people cannot be denied; that the intifada is the living expression  of a people’s rejection of occupation and of its Will to survive; that its methods  are peaceful - stones and demonstrations rather than a resort to arms and the cycle  of killing and counter-killing; that, henceforth, there cari be no coexistence  between the occupiers and the occupied; that the ghetto mentality, extremism, war,  violence, repression and disinformation Will not gain the Israelis control over the  Palestinian people, their resources or their future; that the support of a  superpower for Israel’s aggressive, expansionist policies Will change none of these  facts and Will serve only to prolong war and misery, to bring further tragedy and  pain, to multiply hatred and ill-feeling, to squander human and natural resources  and to obstruct growth and progress.
(3.11) The Palestinian peace plan calls for reasonableness, for deliberation and  for a sense of responsibility for the future of our children and grandchildren. It  calls for lessons to be learned from the past and the historical experience of  peoples. It calls for us to look forward to a future of freedom, independence,  stability and peaceful and constructive coexistence.
(3.12) Mr President, on the eve of this Conference, Jewish extremists violated the  sanctity of the Al-Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem with a provocative attempt to lay the  foundation stone of a Jewish synagogue within the precinct of the mosque. This  attempt brought about serious clashes, leading to deaths and injuries among Muslim  worshippers, to the closure of schools and to scores of arrests. Attempts such as  these are a manifest attack on our heritage and our places of worship. They are an
6  affront to the thousand million Muslims of this world for whom the Al-Aqsa mosque is  as sacred as the Great Mosque of Mecca. We cal1 on this Conference and on the Member  States to intervene swiftly in order to prevent the real calamities which might  arise in the event of an escalation in these provocations. No one abjects to Jewish  synagogues being built, provided that they are not erected in our occupied  Palestinian lands nor on the site of the holy places of Christians and Muslims nor  at their expense. We warn Israel of the consequences of this foolhardy policy.  Jerusalem may be an occupied city but no one in the world wants to see an Israeli  character imposed upon it. The city is of significance to a11 humanity and no one  wishes to see its status usurped or impaired. Jerusalem is the symbolic capital of  peace and worship for a11 mankind. Jerusalem belongs to its people and to its  prophets: to the people who built it stone by stone down the centuries; to the  prophets who proclaimed its message and its universal character. Jerusalem, the  symbol of tolerance, peace and love rejects usurpation and exclusiveness. Jerusalem,  the capital of the Palestinian people, symbolizes the diversity, the individuality  and the tolerance of this people. Jerusalem is the living embodiment of Unesco’s  high mission and ideals.
(3.13) Allow me, Mr President, to conclude my address, by inviting everyone here  to voyage in their mind’s eye to Jerusalem, that fairest of cities, and to say a  prayer of peace for the city of peace, the cradle of Christianity, the starting  point of Muhammad’s night journey to the seven heavens, the meeting place of the  three great monotheistic religions. Let us a11 pray that the city may be free and  that sorrow may be lifted from its churches and mosques. Let us pray that peace may  return to the land of peace and love, the Holy Land, Palestine. Let there be peace  in a11 parts of Lebanon. Let peace there be peace between Iraq and Iran, between  Senegal and Mauritania and everywhere else on earth. Let there be an end to the  odious apartheid regime in South Africa. Let us pray that God Will preserve our  planet from a11 disasters. And, at this point, finally, let us offer our heartfelt  condolences and sympathy to the families of those who died in the earthquake which  has just struck the San Francisco area. Thank you Mr President. Thank you ladies and  gentlemen for your attention.  : 43I I,\  .&LJi.II ti+II &JJ *;+II XJL l&
(4.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the Minister and leader of the Palestinian delegation.
4.2 1 now invite the next speaker, H.E. MS Anaisabel Prera Flores, Minister  of Culture and Sports and head of the delegation of Guatemala, to take the floor.
10 paises multinationales.
(5.1) MS PRERA FLORES (Guatemala)(Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Mr Chairman of  the Executive Board, Ministers, delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, 1  should like first of a11 to congratulate you on having been elected by acclamation  to take up the delicate task of guiding our discussions. 1 should also like to pay  my respects, through you to the Director-General, and to express Guatemala’s support  for his work at the head of Unesco in discharging the responsibilities of the office  to which we elected him two years ago. 1 should also like to express my satisfaction  at the admission to the Organization of the new Member States: the Cook Islands,  Djibouti and Kiribati.
(5.2) As everyone knows, Guatemala has participated with the utmost dedication  and interest in the work of Unesco, and Will continue to do SO. My government has  taken special interest in the draft third Medium-Term Plan, the programme and budget  for the coming biennium, the observations of the Executive Board and the annexes  submitted by the Director-General. My delegation Will do a11 it cari to ensure that  these three documents are thoroughly analysed and that resolutions concerning them  are arrived at by consensus. We believe that the comments of the Executive Board  contained in document 25 C/INF.13 and the valuable contribution of the  Director-General Will facilitate this task, which is SO crucial for the future of  the Organization.
(5.3) We find the world as it is, and we who ardently wish to be a part of it are  not altogether responsible for its present state. The history of the domination of  some peoples by others is very ancient. These governments generally leave the  subject peoples with patterns of development which are unsuited to their nature and  history, and with in some cases pathetically distorted versions of their own  cultures. Even the majority of the borders marked out by cartographers for the  world’s overlords at that time do not correspond to the territorial boundaries of  the indigenous nations of Asia, Africa and Latin America.
(5.4) No country inherits a past like a list of assets, and each normally has to  take the good with the bad that belongs to both yesterday and today. Nevertheless,  the modern age offers countless examples of the fact that not a11 peoples have  enjoyed freedom and independence to determine their own fate. The determination of  men and women, the coming of age of the great powers and the victory over Nazism and  Facism were indispensable in eliminating the colonial regimes and recognizing the  self-determination of peoples and their legal equality in what was to become the  oecumenical community of the United Nations.
(5.5) Faced with the Cold War, the great powers forgot their solemn pledge to  establish full enjoyment of the four fundamental freedoms throughout the world. The  European countries were engrossed in the task of reconstruction, and the poor  countries were hardly in a position to help one another. The Non-Aligned Movement,  whose influence on the democratization of the United Nations and the growth of the  spectrum of alternatives for peace was decisive, emerged in the face of the threat  of war, the alienating pressures of the blocs and the lack of independence to choose  one’s own direction. This movement went from strength to strength, showing that the  peaceful coexistence of different governments, peoples and cultures was both  workable and rewarding. Europe, which in the space of a few decades has moved beyond  the old causes and effects of bloody wars and ruinous economic competition in the  Old World, has set a similar example.
(5.6) Contacts between Europeans, on the one hand, and Africans and Asians, on  the other, date back to the earliest times, and the cultures of these two great  neighbours were comprehensible to the Europeans because of precursors of their own.  American cultures were, however, completely foreign to them. Half a Century had  elapsed after the Discovery before the Pope declared that Americans were human  because they laughed. The sculptures of the Indians were said by the first  chroniclers to be ‘of demonic origin’. And Hegel, with a11 his wisdom, took the view  that the people of the New World were debarred from attaining a degree of  civilization because they were too far behind to catch up. Until not SO many years  ago they were thought of as ‘wogs’, and, at best, as exotic. Their intellectual  artefacts were appreciated only when they resembled those of Europe. It is true that  Black Africa was also insulted in the same way, its sculptured gods being described  as hair-raising and hideous.
(5.7) But with the emergence of the ‘lesser breeds’ into contemporary history,  European specialists in the social sciences came to realize that they had no option  but to study them and understand them in terms of their own values. When they saw  their works of art they were obliged to admit that in matters of art and literature  there was no underdevelopment. Representatives of the Third World in international  forums have put across very original visions of contemporary reality and critical  points of view which enrich historical analysis.
(5.8) In one way or another, this immense intellectual production has always  exerted an influence on the rest of the world. Greek sculpture originated in Africa,  mediated through the Egyptians. Without Arab architecture, Gothic style would not  exist, and without their remote Hindu origins, European cultures would not be what  they are today. Gauguin imported from Indonesia the fashion of sensual innocence and  the ‘savage’ physique ; Stravinsky’s music is full of Asian rhythms and harmonies,  and it has been established that Picasso drew inspiration from African masks for one  of his richest periods. Caribbean and Brazilian music has recently swamped the  world, and the modern novel would be the poorer without Latin American narrative. It  thus becomes more obvious with every day that passes that, in Nehru’s words, the  world has always been more one than we imagine. One of the arduous and still  unfinished tasks involved in building the social structures of the Third World has  been to get rid of the models which the Empires left them without seriously  considering what use they might be to the countries in question. The politically  dominant introduced their scheme of things, whether capitalist or socialist. In the  West, development was seen as a linear process, destined to follow in the footsteps  of the history of the industrialized countries.
(5.9) One of the legal and ideological concepts which should be revised by  humanity as a whole is that of a nation. Its nearest antecedent is the body of laws  imposed over half the world at the beginning of the nineteenth Century. However,  this concept presupposed the homogeneity and agreement of the individual countries’  entire population, and was consequently no less Utopian and far-fetched than the  equality enshrined in constitutions, when we think about the immense disproportion
197  _.,-. .-- ~-.--    between the privileged minorities and the convictions of the rest of the social  fabric. The nation takes no account of the existence of nationalities and other  ethnie groups whose values and histories survived in spite of being constantly  assailed and exploited. Throughout this process other people have made decisions for  them, and invented loyalties and objectives for them. In exceptional cases they were  granted citizenship and participated in government decision-making, but they were  never, or hardljr ever, allowed independence to choose their own directions and  develop and enrich their cultures.
(5.10) Al1 this leads us to a reassessment of the status of multicultural States  and pluri-ethnie societies, ignored, despised or deliberately marginalized after SO  many years of centralism and racial discrimination. It also leads us to reinterpret  and give realistic and effective scope to the principle of the self-determination of  peoples, recognized by the United Nations. The nation-State should not be the sole  abject of such self-determination. Today, the ethnie groups, having attained full  self-awareness, are also actors in history, and many of them already constitute  national groups in their own right. This question cannot Ire confined exclusively to  cultural factors. No political, economic or social regime cari be viable and sound  while it encourages discrimination and denies ethnie groups their full rights.
(5.11) Only the ethnie groups themselves cari understand, formulate and promote  their aspirations, and no one else cari represent them fairly and in full knowledge  of the facts. We have the experience of other neglected groups to go by: women’ s  rights, for example, would never have been demanded and won if they had not been  demanded by women themselves. There was an identical situation involving the black  movements in the United States and Africa, and adolescents and Young people which,  in the 197Os, pricked the consciences of adults.
(5.12) Guatemala vigorously condemns the system of apartheid, not only because it  constitutes a flagrant violation of almost a11 human rights, but also because it  denies the right of an entire people genuinely to become the masters of their land  and their own destiny.
(5.13) For similar reasons, Guatemala resolutely supports the right of the  Palestinian people to preserve and express their identity and acquire their own  territory.
(5.14) The movements representing the ethnie groups suffering from discrimination  are demanding an autonomous status. Otherwise, they would be swallowed up by the  machinery of power. Autonomous status wi thin nation-States usually alarms  politicians because they believe it to be a cause of disintegration and separatism.  That these risks and fears are groundless is shown by the facts. Industrialized  countries and developing countries, countries of the North and of the South - a11  these contain different nationalities with their own languages and cultures. China  has hundreds of peoples, and in the Soviet Union many national groups are composed  of millions of people. Yugoslavia is one of the recent examples of the integration  of individual national groups. In France itself, which seems SO homogeneous, Basque  and Catalan minorities and over ten million southerners who still speak Provençal as  their mother tongue, live together. The new Spanish Constitution sanctions the  autonomy of national groups.
(5.15) In Guatemala we have begun to tackle the Indian question on the basis of  radically new criteria. The subject was explicitly mentioned for the first time in  the Constitution of 1985. It recognizes the pluri-ethnie nature of society and the  right of the Indian groups to recognition of their identity, to respect and to  institutional support enabl ing them to express, enhanc e and reproduce their  cultures. This provision does not confer autonomous status, but takes the bold step  of acknowledging that Indians have an organic function in a society in which they  are numerically in the majority, but dependent and denied recognition as actors in  history. The crucial step forward in policy concerning indigenous people has been to  give Indians guarantees and State assistance to tope with their problems themselves  and through their own efforts. Teaching of their languages has spread; there is an  institute where Indian intellectuals cari dedicate themselves to the etudy of  indigenous cultures; and there are bilingual judges in the judicial structure. A  single Mayan alphabet has been established, assistance is being given to indigenous  associations and a well-defined policy on indigenous peoples was submitted to the  seventh ‘Conferencia Iberoamericana del Encuentro de Dos Mundos’ (Latin American  Conference on the Meeting of Two Worlds). This policy received officia1 support in a  joint agreement ratified by President Vinicio Cerezo of Guatemala and  President Salinas de Gortari of Mexico.
(5.16) In addition to a11 the policies described, our government is also striving  to consolidate projects concerned with research on indigenous cultures and their  preservation, reclamation and dissemination. In October this year, we, the five  Central American countries, are holding a conference at which we have agreed to  launch the ambitious ‘Ruta Maya’ or Maya Route Project, an itinerary which should be  declared protected as belonging to the common heritage of humanity in keeping with  Unesco’s policies.
(5.17) The Indian movement has barely begun. The Indians still have age-old  suspicions, little faith in freedom and, above all, little faith in the manner of  exercising it. Several decades of dictatorship and repression have instilled fear in  people, deprived them of leaders and plunged them into passivity and obedience.  Small wonder that we are enthusiastic to see our country’s largest stratum coming  back to life and starting to make its voice heard. One of the encouraging attitudes  it has shown is the present co-operation of its professionals and specialists in  studying this complex human reality which has been deliberately ignored for SO many  years.
(5.18) This research has revealed the magnitude of the obstacles hindering the  liberation of the Indians. It would be very convenient to limit objectives to the  context of the arts and literature and, at most, historical and anthropological  studies; but the institutionalization of an autonomous status for human communities  cari scarcely be envisaged without its material foundations, calling for far-reaching  reforms of a11 the country’s structures.
(5.19) My government is analysing this situation with the greatest attention and  has established priorities for its work. We are thus concentrating a large part of  our human and material resources on the preparation of the ‘Lay de Education de las  Etnias Indias’ (Law on the Education of Indian Ethnie Groups). It involves the  co-operation of prominent Indian specialists. This Law leaves the management of the  subsystem entirely in the hands of the representatives of the ethnie groups. It  caters for levels from the pre-primary to the ‘bachillerato’ (school-leaving  certificate). Teaching is monolingual in the earlier and bilingual in the later  stages, and is always of a standard comparable to the highest in the national  educational system. It is introducing modern teaching and research methods and is  beginning to train individuals who are aware and proud of their culture, loyal and  respectful to the nation which respects them, who love and defend freedom, are  qualified to work in the environment in which they live and in the country as a  whole, and are imbued with a feeling of solidarity for a11 the world’s peoples.  Democratic participation within the subsystem of Indian education is apparent in the  leading role being played by the organizations of the ethnie group, parents, pupils  and students, teachers and lecturers and the administration.
(5.20) The production of textbooks and teaching materials in the vernacular  languages and the training of specialized teachers are essential aspects of this  type of teaching. The entire science and administrative staff of the subsystem is  Indian. Al1 of these aspects have been incorporated into the  GUA 87/001/UNDP-Unesco/Netherlands Project. As we are a11 well aware, the type of  teaching 1 have just described is dispensed in very few countries in the Third  World. In order to put our modest experience at the disposa1 of those who might be  interested, we should like to present Unesco with a copy of our ‘Ley de Education de  las Etnias Indias’, which we consider useful for a11 multicultural countries.
(5.21) Unesco cornes to mind because from the outset it has shown an understanding  of the diversity of the world’s cultures and has helped to study and publicize them  in a serious and intelligent way. Through Unesco’s instruments, it is possible to  trace the development of a policy that has gradually added a very wide dimension to  the concept of culture, encompassing the material facilities, the technical  resources and the social organizations that are essential for the making and  ail-round development of peoples.
(5.22) Unesco has had to struggle through difficult times to accomplish its task.  Nowadays, a11 nations seem to be hacking its work in a spirit of generosity and  understanding, an attitude that goes hand in hand with the political and  intellectual restructuring of the world and that should be a source of fresh  momentum for the appreciation of cultures and for using their potential to manifold  advantage. With the spectre of war receding and with honest, frankly competitive  dealings among the great powers, the time is ripe to focus the intelligence of a11  nations on enhancing the dignity and safeguarding the lives of human beings on  earth. Thank you.
6. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the Guatemalan delegation and 1 cal1 on  H.E. Professor Alexandre Fol, President of the National Committee for Education,  Science and Culture and head of the delegation of Bulgaria.
7.1 M. FOL (Bulgarie) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Mes-  sieurs, je voudrais tout d’abord m’adresser à vous, Monsieur le Président, pour  vous féliciter au nom de la délégation bulgare à l’occasion de votre élection.  Je vous souhaite plein succès dans votre travail et suis profondément convaincu  que sous votre direction compétente et grâce à la collaboration active de toutes  les délégations, la Conférence générale saura, à sa présente session, renforcer  la coopération internationale intellectuelle au nom des nobles idéaux de
7.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, fidèles à l'Acte constitutif de l'unesco et aux  traditions établies au sein de cette Organisation, nous voici réunis de nouveau  pour faire le bilan de ce qui a été réalisé en application des décisions de la  vingt-quatrième session de la Conférence générale, mais aussi pour analyser les  succès et les échecs que nous avons connus pendant la période du deuxième Plan à  moyen terme.
7.3 Beaucoup de choses ont changé dans le monde pendant cette courte période  de deux ans. Or, le changement,  commune à l'harmonie dans le monde,  nous le voyons surtout dans cette aspiration  à la sécurité générale et à la paix. On voit  de plus en plus s'établir une nouvelle mentalité politique qui devient à la fois  une philosophie des relations internationales et un programme d'action à la base  des valeurs humaines. Il suffit de rappeler les accords importants signés entre  l'URSS et les Etats-Unis dans le domaine du désarmement, l'aboutissement heureux  de la réunion de Vienne, l'aspiration sincère des pays européens à l'édification  de leur maison commune.
7.4 Des changements sensibles se sont produits aussi dans la coopération  multilatérale qui passe par les voies de 1'ONU : celle-ci joue un rôle de plus  en plus important dans le règlement des problèmes globaux de l'humanité, en par-  ticulier en ce qui concerne la prévention des catastrophes écologiques, le règle-  ment des conflits régionaux, la défense des droits de l'homme et l'élimination  de toutes les formes de discrimination raciale.
7.5 Les problèmes écologiques, dont l'importance particulière n'a pas besoin  d'être soulignée, ont donné lieu cette année à Sofia à une table ronde organisée  sous l'égide de 1'Unesco et du PNUE et intitulée "Education - environnement - dé-  veloppement". Au cours de cette table ronde il a été proposé de créer un centre  d'information en République populaire de Bulgarie dont le rôle serait d'assurer  le lien avec les réseaux régionaux d'éducation relative à l'environnement. Dans  la capitale de la Bulgarie se déroule en ce moment une réunion paneuropéenne sur  la protection de l'environnement - "Eco-Forum" - qui est la première manifesta-  tion de ce genre, inspirée du nouvel esprit de collaboration.
7.6 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, compte tenu des change-  ments complexes qui se produisent actuellement dans la vie internationale, il est  absolument nécessaire de répondre à la question qui nous préoccupe tous, à  savoir : en quoi 1'Unesco a-t-elle changé pendant cette période, quelle est la  tendance durable qui caractérise les changements qu'elle connaît et comment y  avons-nous contribué ?
7.7 Deux ans se sont écoulés depuis que le nouveau Directeur général  Federico Mayor - scientifique, humaniste et homme politique tout à la fois, a  pris ses fonctions. D'une façon générale, on peut dire que ces deux ans ont été  une période pendant laquelle s'est préparée l'amorce de changements positifs,  une période où des efforts sérieux ont été déployés pour sortir de la crise et  rendre son universalité à l'unesco, une période consacrée à des réflexions, à  des actes concrets pour donner un nouveau visage à l'Organisation, pour la doter  d'une nouvelle structure et définir son activité future. On peut dire qu'il  s'est agi d'une période transitoire et qu'elle l'est encore. Des mesures ont été  adoptées pour le perfectionnement de la structure du Secrétariat, pour une  décentralisation et une concentration des activités de programme, pour rapprocher  l'Organisation des besoins réels et des aspirations des peuples à l'éducation, à  la science et à la culture.
7.8 Toutes ces tendances figuraient déjà dans l'ébauche de troisième Plan à  moyen terme dont la préparation avait commencé dès la dernière session de la  Conférence générale et s'est poursuivie pendant toutes les sessions du Conseil  exécutif. Il nous semble qu'en sa qualité de membre du Conseil,  quatre dernières années,  pendant les  la Bulgarie a contribué d'une manière constructive à ce  que l'on aboutisse à un compromis raisonnable, à un équilibre entre les intérêts  de tous les pays membres et groupes régionaux et, finalement, à ce que le schéma  adopté du projet soit enrichi d'un contenu concret.
7.9 Ainsi perfectionné, le projet de Plan proposé va resserrer davantage  les liens qui existent entre, d'une part, l'éducation, la science, la culture et  la communication et, d'autre part, les objectifs et les principes de la coopéra-  tion internationale intellectuelle dans le contexte du climat politique actuel.
7.10 Ma délégation est favorable à la place prioritaire réservée aux ques-  tions inscrites dans le champ majeur de programme "L'éducation et l'avenir", dans  le programme "Vers une éducation de base pour tous" et dans le projet mobilisa-  teur 1 "Lutte contre l'analphabétisme". Dans ce contexte, nous nous félicitons  de la proclamation de l'Année internationale de l'alphabétisation, du plan mon-  dial d'action pour éliminer l'analphabétisme et de la prochaine Conférence mon-  diale sur l'éducation pour tous. J'ajouterai simplement qu'il est nécessaire de
200    mettre au point des concepts nouveaux pour un alphabétisme conforme aux condi-  tions réelles de notre époque où règnent les ordinateurs, où les technologies de  l'information sont désormais largement utilisées dans l'enseignement et où il  faut des moyens efficaces pour éliminer l'analphabétisme fonctionnel. Dans ce  sens, le programme 1.2 "L'éducation pour le XXIe siècle" pourrait être enrichi  d'un peu plus d'éléments relevant de la philosophie de l'éducation telle qu'elle  sera au siècle prochain.
7.11 Il nous semble par ailleurs que disperser les thèmes ayant trait à  l'enseignement - "Enseignement de l'environnement", "Education et informatique"  et "Education dans l'esprit de la paix, des droits de l'homme et de l'élimination  de toutes les formes de la discrimination raciale" dans différents champs majeurs  de programme, en l'occurrence dans les champs II, V et VII, ne correspond guère  à une orientation vers la concentration des activités de programme.
7.12 Mon pays, la République populaire de Bulgarie, a accumulé une expérience  considérable dans le domaine de l'application de l'informatique aux différents  niveaux de son système d'enseignement. Il est à noter qu'il est à l'origine de  la mise en oeuvre du programme international d'études intitulé "Les enfants dans  le siècle de l'informatique". Dans le cadre de ce programme, il a été organisé  au mois de mai 1989 à Sofia, la troisième Conférence internationale "Les enfants  dans le siècle de l'informatique" accompagnée d'une olympiade internationale  d'informatique. En 1990 avec la collaboration de l'unesco, la Bulgarie va  accueillir la prochaine Conférence internationale ainsi qu'une exposition et un  festival de films "Videcom'90". Nous saisissons cette occasion pour confirmer  que la République populaire de Bulgarie est prête à accueillir le deuxième  Congrès international de l'éducation et de l'informatique.
7.13 Consciente de l'importance de l'éducation des enfants à l'âge présco-  laire, la Commission nationale bulgare pour l'llnesco apporte son soutien à la  proposition d'inclure dans le projet de troisième Plan à moyen terme le projet  spécial portant sur le développement et l'éducation des enfants à l'âge présco-  laire intitulé "L'enfant et la famille" et propose qu'on étudie la possibilité  de tenir en 1995 un congrès mondial consacré aux questions de l'éducation à l'âge  préscolaire. Vu aussi la grande importance que 1'Unesco attache aux problèmes de  l'éducation des enfants handicapés, la République populaire de Bulgarie propose  un projet de résolution concernant l'organisation de recherches scientifiques  complexes dans ce domaine. Tous ces problèmes s'inscrivent dans un thème général  que nous appelons en Bulgarie "L'enfant et la société", car d'après nous ce thème  recouvre tous les besoins et toutes les possibilités ayant trait à la formation  des générations suivantes qui vont créer le monde du XXIe siècle. Notre ambition  est de faire participer à des activités de programme unies l'ensemble des forces  intellectuelles de la nation.
7.14 Les programmes scientifiques inclus dans le Projet de plan à moyen terme  et dans le Programme et budget biennal ont été soutenus et approuvés dans divers  forums de 1'Unesco. Nous sommes d'accord avec les arguments exprimés en faveur  de ces programmes et apprécions leur caractère concret ainsi que le fait qu'ils  soient regroupés autour de quelques thèmes principaux. Nous considérons que  l'Organisation est suffisamment mûre pour aborder la coopération scientifique  sous un jour nouveau, c'est-à-dire à travers le prisme des problèmes globaux de  l'humanité. Voilà pourquoi nous sommes convaincus qu'il est temps de mettre au  point de grands projets scientifiques ouverts à tous les pays. A ce sujet, je  voudrais rappeler le programme scientifique international "Intelligence scienti-  fique" entrepris a l'initiative de la Bulgarie et exprimer l'espoir que ce pro-  gramme saura répondre aux souhaits qui ont été formulés.
7.15 Ceci dit, il ne faut pas sous-estimer l'importance des programmes limi-  tés à une région. Après la réussite de la rencontre scientifique internationale  VARNA 88, témoignage éloquent de la coopération scientifique européenne, la Bul-  garie accueillera et organisera en 1990 une deuxième réunion du même type,  VARNA-2. Nous espérons que 1'Unesco apportera son concours à cette rencontre  internationale, dont l'objectif est de promouvoir la coopération entre jeunes  scientifiques dans divers domaines de la science.
7.16 J'aimerais exprimer ici le voeu que 1'Unesco joue un rôle croissant dans  deux aspects importants de la coopération scientifique, à savoir la diffusion  des résultats positifs des programmes et l'élaboration de normes juridiques et  éthiques adaptées au rythme accéléré du progrès technique et technologique.
7.17 La République populaire de Bulgarie soutient entièrement les efforts  que déploie l'Organisation pour que le monde se débarrasse du fléau que consti-  tue la pollution de l'air, de l'eau et du sol. Les témoignages de l'aspiration  sincère de mon pays vers cet objectif sont nombreux. A cet égard, nous avons bon  espoir que le projet "Le Danube bleu", inclus dans le mémorandum signé lors de  la visite du Directeur général de 1'Unesco en Bulgarie en 1988, sera soutenu
201    par la Conférence générale et que sa réalisation constituera un exemple à suivre  pour d'autres projets de ce genre non seulement en Europe, mais aussi dans  d'autres continents.
7.18 La République populaire de Bulgarie participe activement aux manifesta-  tions organisées dans le cadre de la Décennie mondiale du développement culturel,  à laquelle le champ majeur de programme III a réservé à juste titre une place  centrale. Un Comité national a été créé dans mon pays et un programme d'action  adopté au titre de la Décennie. A notre avis, la Décennie mondiale du développe-  ment culturel doit favoriser l'intégration de la science, de l'éducation et de  l'art, ainsi que l'élaboration d'une base législative solide concernant le déve-  loppement global de la sphère spirituelle. Nous soutenons sans réserve les chan-  gements structurels proposés et le nouveau classement des sous-programmes dans  le domaine de la culture. Ainsi, les problèmes de la coopération internationale,  tout comme ceux de la protection et de l'enrichissement de l'identité Culturelle,  retrouvent dans ce programme la place fondamentale qui leur revient.
7.19 En ce qui concerne le champ majeur de programme IV (La communication au  service de l'humanité), il serait souhaitable que toutes les activités liées aux  nouvelles technologies d'information et de communication qui méritent d'être  soutenues, soient traitées dans le contexte des moyens de communication tradi-  tionnels. Une telle approche éviterait, ne serait-ce que partiellement, le risque  de porter atteinte à l'intégrité sociale et à l'identité de nombre de pays en  développement et de bien d'autres. Nous apprécions la formulation du nouveau  programme IV.3 consacré à l'influence socioculturelle des nouvelles technologies  de communication.
7.20 Dans son ensemble, la dernière version du Programme et budget pour
1990-1991 reflète le désir d'obtenir, lors de la mise en oeuvre des champs  majeurs de programme et des projets mobilisateurs, la meilleure coordination  possible avec les autres organisations et organismes internationaux faisant  partie ou non du système des Nations Unies. Ceci dit, nous sommes loin de consi-  dérer que ce projet si important pour le travail futur de l'Organisation est  parfait. Nous aurons beaucoup à faire au sein des commissions de la Conférence  générale pour traduire concrètement les principales orientations de l'activité  de I'Unesco et pour définir de façon plus précise les responsabilités et les  modalités de répartition des ressources financières entre les champs majeurs de  programme à l'intérieur de ceux-ci, ainsi que la participation des Etats membres  à ce processus.
7.21 Comme le Conseil exécutif a examiné de façon très détaillée le Règlement  financier et les techniques budgétaires, je ne voudrais pas revenir ici sur l'im-  portance de la couverture financière. La situation financière de l'Organisation,  que nous savons préoccupante, a imposé de proposer des mesures urgentes et de  créer un groupe de travail pour étudier en profondeur les causes qui ont provoqué  cette situation. Je voudrais une fois de plus répéter l'opinion de mon pays,  exposée d'ailleurs à plusieurs reprises, qu'il faut chercher une issue à la  situation actuelle en réalisant des économies sur les dépenses administratives.
7.22 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, la République populaire  de Bulgarie a toujours joué un rôle actif au sein de l'Organisation. Le sort de  l'Unesc0, son présent et son avenir nous ont toujours intéressés. Permettez-moi  de rappeler les paroles du président de mon pays, M. Jivkov, qui témoignent de  l'estime profonde portée à l'unesco, de la haute appréciation donnée au rôle  unique qu'elle joue et à son importance : "Une organisation comme l'Unesc0,  l'histoire n'en connaît pas d'autre". Quand on parle aujourd'hui de la coopéra-  tion et des échanges internationaux dans le domaine intellectuel, il faut sortir  du cadre traditionnel. Il ne suffit plus de faire connaître les acquis scienti-  fiques ou artistiques d'un peuple. Chaque culture nationale est le chemin qui  permet d'accéder à la culture de la région et, à travers elle, à la culture du  monde. En espérant que, dans son sens le plus profond, le concept de "culture"  ne s'oppose en rien à celui de "nature", nous sommes convaincus que chaque  culture nationale est une fenêtre sur la culture mondiale. Et nous sommes d'avis  que toutes les fenêtres doivent être ouvertes pour que la lumière de l'âme, de  l'esprit et de la volonté puisse humaniser l'humanité.
7.23 Je voudrais exprimer ici la conviction de mon gouvernement que 1'Unesco  ne cessera d'apporter à l'avenir sa contribution unique au renforcement de la  paix, à la compréhension et à la coopération entre les peuples. Je puis vous  assurer, Monsieur le Président, que mon pays oeuvrera avec toute son énergie à  la réalisation de ces objectifs. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
8.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the Bulgarian delegation.
8.2 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, may 1 remind you that we have a  very long list of speakers, including a number of Ministers who very much hope  to be given the opportunity to speak today or tomorrow. 1 therefore appeal for  your kind co-operation in respecting the time-limit on the length of speeches. I  appreciate your co-operation in this up to the present.
8.3 1 now cal1 on H.E. Professor Andreas Philippou, Minister of Education  and head of the delegation of Cyprus.
9.1 Mr PHILIPPOU (Cyprus):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, on behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Cyprus,  I extend to you, Mr President, our warm congratulations on your election. We  trust that, under your wise guidance, we shall deal effectively with the complex  problems which confront humanity today in the sphere of our Organization's  competence. 1 should also like to welcome to our family the three new Member  States, the Cook Islands, Djibouti and Kiribati.
9.2 The Conference affords us an opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to,  and faith in, the fundamental principles on which Unesco was founded and to  pledge our full support to the noble aspirations and efforts of the  Organization. It also offers us an incentive to re-examine and reshape our  policies and strategies in our common endeavour to achieve a better future for  the whole of humankind. This, in fact, is the purpose of the Medium-Term Plan,  the most important instrument of policy and action of the Organization.
9.3 We welcome the fact that the Draft Plan, presented to the Conference in  documents 25 C/4 and annexes and 25 C/108, is the product of frank consultations  and meaningful dialogue between the Director-General and the Executive Board,  reflecting the consensus reached during its discussions. The structure of the  Plan and the reduction and concentration of the programmes are well designed to  meet the challenges of the future. They Will also doubtless be more conducive to  effective implementation. This, in its turn, Will enhance the visibility of  Unesco - an essential element which has been lacking in recent years.
9.4 There is no doubt that in today's world of technological progress and  advancement, illiteracy and the inability of a large proportion of the world  population to tope efficiently with the ever-increasing demands of their social,  cultural and economic environments remain one of the greatest issues confronting  humanity in the coming decade. That is why we are pleased to see the emphasis  placed in Major Programme Area 1 and in Mobilizing Project 1 on combating  illiteracy. We hope this Will lead to the elimination of illiteracy by the year
2000. Although illiteracy in Cyprus is estimated to be only 4 per cent, we  endorse the spirit and the initiatives of the proclaimed International Literacy  Year and we have already set up our own National Committee to examine practical  methods and ways of addressing the problem effectively. Access to education is a  basic human right and this notion increases our responsibilities towards both  children and adults who, on account of less favourable conditions of life, face  great difficulties in gaining access to education or acquiring an adequate and  functional level of literacy.
9.5 In addition to preparing the individual to face the complex realities  of life, education is an important means for promoting human rights,  international understanding, co-operation and peace. Our troubled world cannot  view the future with optimism unless these notions pervade our minds from an  early age.
9.6 We believe that the mobility of students and teachers promotes these  goals. Cyprus endorses a11 efforts at the national, regional and international  levels which facilitate academic mobility as well as the free flow and exchange  of ideas. We have already signed and ratified the Unesco Convention on the  Recognition of Studies, Diplomas and Degrees concerning higher education in the  States belonging to the Europe Region and we support the spirit and the  principles which prevailed recently, at the Vienna Conference, on the  equivalence of diplomas and degrees in the countries of Western and Eastern  Europe. Such initiatives contribute substantially to the realization of the  ideals and objectives of Unesco.
9.7 In this spirit, we believe that the University of Cyprus, which Will  start operations in September 1991, Will become the meeting-place and the  discussion forum of the Young people of Cyprus, and of Young people from other  countries as well. The University, with its democratic structure and  high-quality programmes, adapted both to local needs and to global concerns, is  expected to play an important role in promoting unity in the country and to  contribute to peace in the region through tolerance and good Will, co-operation  and mutual understanding. Out of a firm belief in, and commitment to, these
203    common goals and ideals, we have recently requested Unesco to appoint a  representative to attend, in an advisory capacity, the meetings of the Interim  Governing Board of the University.
9.8 NOW that the beneficial breeze of reconciliation is blowing through the  world, we hope that Cyprus too Will be able to achieve again the unity of its  people and enjoy its freedom, independence and territorial integrity without  dividing lines imposed by foreign occupation troops. We hope that the University  of Cyprus Will become the meeting-place where a11 the Young people of Cyprus  Will soon be allowed to corne together again under the same roof and try to mould  their common future away from the disheartening experiences of the past.
9.9 Cyprus places special emphasis on Programme III.2 of the Draft  Medium-Term Plan concerning the preservation and revival of the cultural  heritage. We agree that, as stated in document 25 C/4, the cultural heritage is  'a legacy belonging to a11 humankind', and that it 'gives each particular place  its recognizable features and is the storehouse of human experience'.  Unfortunately, our cultural heritage in Cyprus in the occupied part of the  island is continuously being destroyed by deliberate neglect and systematic  looting with the aim of depriving it of its 'recognizable features'.
9.10 A recent prime example, which received worldwide media attention, is  the famous sixth Century mosaic of Panayia Kanakaria at Lythrangomi. This unique  work of early Christian art was torn from the walls of the church, exported  illicitly, and offered for sale in the United States. The Church of Cyprus and  the Government of the Republic initiated legal action. After hearings, attended  by a Unesco observer, the competent United States court ruled that the mosaic  should be returned to its rightful owner. This decision is important not only  for the heritage of Cyprus, but for a11 endangered cultural treasures throughout  the world. It sets a precedent which cari reinforce Unesco's efforts to preserve  the cultural heritage. In this context, an appropriate draft resolution Will be  submitted by my delegation to Programme Commission IV.
9.11 Mr President, this Conference is especially important because we are  discussing not only the activities of Unesco over the next two years, but its  policy direction over a period stretching into the middle of the next decade and  beyond. We are confident that the Medium-Term Plan, covering as it does the  three major challenges - peace, development and protection of the earth's  environment - Will contribute to a better quality of life, marking a new era of  achievement and vigour for Unesco and justifying the expectations focused on the  Organization across the world.
10. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Cyprus, and 1 now give the floor  to H.E. Dr Mostapha Moïn, Minister of Culture and Higher Education and head of  the delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
11.1 Mr MOIN (Islamic Republic of Iran):  (Statement delivered in Persian; English translation provided by the  delegation)  In the name of Allah the Compassionate, the Merciful; Mr Chairman, your  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my address by praising and  thanking the Almighty who has created a11 men from the same essence and bestowed  on them outward differences, SO that they may be distinguished one from  another. He commissioned the Great Prophets to make them aware of their divine  nature and to build a society which promotes human growth and CO-existence on  the basis of the noble value they universally share. This week coincides with  the birth of the Great Prophet of Islam, and it is a sacred and significant time  for a11 the followers of righteousness.
11.2 Mr President, on my behalf and on behalf of my delegation, 1 would like  t0 congratulate you on your election as President of the present session. 1  wish to continue my address by invoking the memory and name of a noble  individual who pursued the aims and the tradition of the divinely ordained  apostles and other illustrious reformers of human society throughout history; a  man who sought to awaken the conscience of mankind with his eloquent words,  inviting a11 Muslims, the Mustaz'afan and the disinherited, as well as, modern  men everywhere to rediscover their pure selves and the noble nature with which  God has endowed mankind. 1 refer to the great leader of the world revolution of  Islam, our beloved and dear departed Imam, Hazrat Imam Khomeyni. May his sou1  rest in Heaven. He revived human values that were forgotten in the sound and  fury raised by those who have led, and continue to lead, mankind to  self-alienation, and who try to entangle them in the labyrinth of material life  devoid of morality and noble human ideas. This illustrious figure of modern  times bravely rose up to achieve these ends. He devoted his entire beneficent  life to his task. And now, a few months after the departure of that man of God,
204    the living sou1 of a11 noble human beings who look towards a future free of  oppression and a11 forms of cultural, economic and social prejudice, has entered  the eternity of history. There is no doubt, however, that his memory Will live  on in the hearts of millions of ardent human beings, and that his numerous  followers Will follow his path and fulfil his mission.
11.3 Mr President, two years have passed since the convening of the  twenty-fourth session of the General Conference of Unesco. During this period  many events have taken place in which Unesco has endeavoured to play its part.  Within the framework of its planned projects, it has tried to improve the  conditions of human societies by relieving tension and conflict. We pay tribute  to Unesco for its undertakings. As far as we have been able, we have  participated in these efforts, and we shall continue to do SO.
11.4 On behalf of the delegation of Iran and on my own behalf, 1 pay tribute  to the honourable Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor, to the members of the  Executive Board and to a11 those responsible for drawing up the Draft  Medium-Term Plan and the Draft Programme and Budget for the next biennium. 1  would like to take this opportunity to make a few remarks concerning some of the  significant issues set forth in those documents. Relevant details Will be  provided in the appropriate commissions by my colleagues.
11.5 We are a11 well aware that the qualitative and quantitative improvement  of the human resources of developing countries is a necessary condition for  breaking out of the cycle of underdevelopment. In this connection, the Programme  clearly reflects the significant part played by universal education in the  process of economic and social development of societies. Regarding education,  available information, including statistics and other data, leads us to the  important conclusion that social inequality, disorder and other such  shortcomings Will be reflected in the education system and Will affect it.
11.6 From our point of view, education at a11 levels should have the  following characteristics: firstly, it should be provided continuously and  constantly. In the words of the Great Apostle of Islam, 'seek knowledge from the  cradle to the grave'. In other words, education for children, supplementary  education for newly literate adults and the provision of facilities for higher  levels of education for a11 members of society are a11 mandatory. Secondly,  education must be ail-embracing and universal. It should encompass every stratum  of society and should not be limited to a certain period in the individual's  life or to a particular place. Everyone should have access to learning at any  given time or place. Thirdly, the raison d'être of the content and method of  education should be inspired by the society to which it is applied. Fields of  study, moreover, should be selected according to the interest, ability and  aptitude of individuals. Therefore, the policy of the arrogant powers of  introducing a uniform system of education in the countries of others,  particularly those they consider to fa11 within their sphere of influence, is a  ploy to perpetuate their domination and constitutes an obstacle to the  realization of the advancement of education. As our great leader Hazrat Ali-Ibn  Abi Talib has remarked: 'Your children belong to the future, SO train and  prepare them for the future'. Dogmatism and reluctance to engage in genuine  assessment and reform of educational policies, programmes and methods Will be  obstructive. The first part of Unesco's six-year Medium-Term Plan contains a  number of positive points which cari be promising if they are completed, improved  and accompanied by the necessary quarantees that they Will be observed and  carried out as envisaged. It is necessary, however, to point out that, in order  to eradicate illiteracy worldwide, far greater efforts must be made SO that a11  school-age children may attend school. In this case, priority should be given to  the developing countries. As document 25 C/4 clearly indicates, while developed  countries are faced with 'operational illiteracy', developing countries and  those who have been kept in a position of backwardness are confronted with the  problem of 'absolute illiteracy'. Therefore, any distribution of material and  moral support and assistance in the various countries and regions should be  based on these priorities.
11.7 Mr President,  significance of  the Islamic Republic of Iran is profoundly aware of the  carrying out a campaign designed for the rapid uprooting of  illiteracy and the provision and advancement of education. Therefore, from the  outset, it has devoted a great part of its energy and resources to this field  and, relying on certain aspects of our country's cultural traditions, it has  achieved considerable success. In the first draft of the country's Five-Year  Plan for Economie Social and Cultural Development, devised to meet the  requirements of the period following a war that was imposed on us for several  years, a major part of the budget has been allocated to fighting illiteracy. The  budget is also liable to a 20 per cent annual increase. In addition, the plan  for establishing a serviceman-teacher corps has been implemented and Will  utilize much of the energy of our youth in the campaign against illiteracy and
205    in the promotion of education. We hope that a concerted effort by a11 States  Will fundamentally transform our world in this regard.
11.8 Mr President, scientific inventions and discoveries and their almost  immediate application occur with such speed today that it is fair to say that  science and technology are not merely a product, but an important factor that  shapes human societies. Thus,  and its  man's knowledge and outlook regarding the world  various problems Will be for evermore affected by technology. Less  because this phenomenon poses a problem that is intrinsic to man than because  the use and application of science and technology has become problematic.  Unfortunately, industry and technology have become a too1 for  domination and are concentrated in industrial countries and expl%%  and  and  monopolized by them. Fifty per cent of the budget allocated for industrial  research is, in fact, spent on research on weapons and various other military  and destructive instruments. In this connection, the developing countries are  left with little choice, since the present situation suits the interests of the  industrial countries and is to their advantage.
11.9 We believe that in the socio-economic application of scientific and  technological findings due account should be taken of multifarious  considerations, compatibility with regional and indigenious circumstances being  but one of the most important factors. Thus, developing countries would not  merely be consumers of industrial products, but should benefit from the  scientific research and resources of international bodies and those of developed  countries. In this endeavour Unesco cari play an important part. Informatics,  inter alia, plays a significant role in the development of scientific and  technological education, as well as in scientitic and cultural communication.  Therefore, in order to inform the public about the dimensions of this science,  we propose that a day be selected and named the World Day of Informatics.
11.10 Mr President, regarding environmental problems, attention should be  drawn to the heavy responsibility that the developed industrial countries should  bear. Mass production and marketing of industrial products are the cause of most  of the pollution that threatens our environment. Nuclear tests; the disposa1 of  nuclear waste in different regions of the world; explosions in factories and  nuclear plants; launching of many rackets, satellites and space stations, as  well as frequent tests of different kinds of weapons; the use of chemical  weapons in war; air pollution due to industrial smoke and smoke from the various  machines and vehicles; industrial sewage; and changes in the structure and shape  of the natural environment caused by the disappearance and destruction of green  spaces, to name just a few, are a11 important factors of environmental  pollution. The source of this pollution, 1 must repeat, is found in the  industrial countries. But the natural environment belongs to a11 mankind, and we  cannot hope to improve present ecological conditions without taking the above  factors into consideration and without devising a scheme which calls for  extensive co-operation. In its own right, the Islamic Republic of Iran has done  its best to protect the environment by promoting the proper use of science and  technology through projects for reclaiming natural resources and by preventing  the pollution of the human environment. In order to achieve these ends, we try  to utilize our domestic, regional and international resources.
11.11 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in connection with Major Programme  Area IV, which contains a scheme for 'Communication in the service of humanity',  we admit that it contains a number of positive points, but must note with regret  that it overlooks the spirit of the New World Communication Order. The content  of paragraph 274 of the Draft Medium-Term Plan is neither convincing nor  sufficient. The 'Order' provides a suitable basis through which developing  countries could gradually take their place in international communication. It  goes without saying that in the world today the bulk of news is gathered,  diffused, transmitted and monopolized by a few arrogant powers and serve their  interests alone. The New World Communication Order cari aid and promote news  exchanges of a11 kinds, particularly in the Third World, and thus help break the  existing monopoly. This is why it was approved at various sessions of the Unesco  General Conference. More than 100 countries which are members of the Non-Aligned  Movement have also unanimously supported the 'Order' at a11 their conferences,  including the summit meeting held recently. In the light of the above, we truly  wish that the honourable Director-General of Unesco would see that the spirit of  the 'Order' remains the main pivot of the proposed projects, despite the fact  that some arrogant powers may selfishly try to obstruct this process by means of  threats and opposition to the efforts of others. We are certain that this  session of the General Conference Will once again support the resolutions  proposed on this issue.
11.12 Mr President, culture and its various dimensions have been discussed in  detail in Part III of the Draft Medium-Term Plan. We think that Unesco's  interest in philosophical, moral, spiritual and religious teachings and its
6  acknowledgement of their role in culture is promising, and we should like to  stress that greater endeavour in this area is needed. A discourse between  adherents of various philosophies and moral and religious schools should be  fostered SO as to examine human values and discuss fundamental human issues.  Indeed, experience has shown that concern for the material dimension of Culture,  and the efforts of both the West and the East to promote and establish the  predominance of growth and materialistic culture, have prevented men from  achieving this significant dimension of growth and prosperity. Therefore, the  cultural dimension of development, as well as cultural development in general,  must be viewed as the key domain of projects in this sector. In this way a moral  and spiritual orientation and concern for the human nature of Man may be infused  into cultural projects, pointing mankind towards the path that leads frOm  confusion, anxiety and fear to freedom.
11.13 We hope that the projects for the World Decade for Cultural  Development, in which we have actively participated, Will psy even greater  attention to cultural development and that, as expected, similar projects  carried out by Unesco Will provide a real opportunity for the rich cultures of  mankind to express and elucidate their particular points of view. Thus, the  universal spiritual values which mankind and a11 human societies share and need,  values that are indispensable for their progress and development, Will be  identified and shall become the pivot and criterion for changes and reforms in  various dimensions of human life. In its Five-Year Plan the Islamic Republic of  Iran has given special attention to cultural exchange at the regional and  international level and has shown particular concern for noble human values. We  are therefore prepared to support and assist and co-operate in research on ways  of reviving universal moral values and studying their part in various aspects of  human life. 1 must also draw your attention to the importance of preserving the  cultural heritage of mankind. On this point, 1 would like to take this  opportunity to psy tribute to the honourable Director-General of Unesco,  Mr Federico Mayor, who has expressed his readiness to co-operate in the  preservation and reconstruction of cultural centres in my country which were  damaged in the course of the war imposed upon us.
11.14 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that many of the  problems which Young people face today are rooted in the economic, social,  political and cultural structures of various countries and that by reforming  these structures those problems cari also be solved. When a Young person is able  to complete his education in a field that he himself chooses and which is useful  for his society, when he gains knowledge of human and moral values and cari find  suitable employment; when he cari become a part of his national, regional and  international community, he Will gain self-esteem. Consequently, he Will  refrain from commiting offences against society, and the problems of delinquency  Will cesse to exist. Economie profiteering by the developed and industrial  countries which unreasonably strive for superiority, and their constant and  extensive propaganda in the developing countries, have deprived the youth of  these lands from knowing and understanding their own societies. This process  ultimately leads to the alienation of Young persons from their native  communities, results in frustration and leads to youth delinquency.
11.15 Unesco must strive to develop recreational projects for Young people as  part of its cultural and social projects for youth. One particular area which  Calls for research relates to the policies adopted in the developed countries to  deal with these issues, policies which are not constructive and produce il1  effects in those countries and miseducate the youth of the countries of the  Third World. The entertainment education industry - the industry adopted in  connection with recreational activities in recent years - has encouraged Young  people to form criminal gangs, to become frustrated individuals who shy away  from an active life, prone to drug addiction and on the verge of becoming  victims of corruption and prostitution. AS an educational and cultural  institution, Unesco must be deeply troubled by this situation and must thus warn  everyone concerned.
11.16 The drug trade and the distribution of drugs should be examined in the  same light. The Islamic Republic of Iran, aware of the significance of this  issue, has embarked on the study of the social, cultural and educational  conditions which lead to drug addiction. It has also begun a full-scale  campaign against the causes of this terrible misfortune and has obtained  positive results. Yet, the solution to this complex problem cari only be found  through an international effort and close co-operation. A conference Will be  held in Tehran next April on this issue and we hope that Unesco and its Member  States Will play an active part and make it even more fruitful with their  constructive proposals and projects.
11.17 On the subject of women, we have already stated on other occasions  that, in our view, the existing problems in this area Will not be solved until
207    women are able to find their rightful role in society, and until such a  transformation has genuinely taken place. On the basis of this analysis, the  Islamic Republic of Iran has, from its inception,  that  made every effort to ensure  women hold responsible positions in various cultural,  agricultural, scientific,  industrial,  administrative and service-related sectors and receive  appropriate training. In addition to these social activities, they are also  engaged in administering the domestic affairs of the family and in the important  task of bringing up and educating their children. In the  importance of the family and its role in society,  light of the  the Islamic Republic of Iran  is solemnly prepared to assist Unesco to examine the noble values of the family  and ways of reviving these values in other societies.
11.18 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as 1 mentioned in my introductory  remarks, in accordance with the teachings of Islam, we believe that promoting  understanding, friendship and unity among people through belief in universal and  noble values, is a part of the prophetic mission of the apostles and that they  strive to guide mankind and the community of believers along this path.  According to the Holy Quran, war is prescribed in particular cases, such as the  defence of sacred beliefs and, one's homeland, and against those who obstruct  human development and those who 'stand in the way of God'. Therefore, under  normal circumstances, to our mind, peace is a prerequisite for the growth and  prosperity of mankind. In this connection, it must be stressed that the  conditions for peace are as important as peace itself and cari by no means be  overlooked.
11.19 Various documents of Unesco have repeatedly stressed that peace is to  be inculcated and strengthened in the minds of men and that this cari only be  achieved when there are grounds for understanding among them. Therefore, we  believe that the sacred beliefs of peoples and nations must be respected. This  is a fact that is clearly stated in the United Nations Charter, the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights and its two related covenants, as well as in the  rules and principles of international law. Respect for the sacred beliefs of  peoples and nations is a definite condition for peaceful coexistence and peace  in general, and any insult against these beliefs Will, in proportion to its  gravity, lead to a violation of the principle of understanding among nations.  Such an act is therefore considered a crime and the aiding and abetting of it  would constitute collusion in that crime. We have recently witnessed examples  of such organized violations and abuses of the sacred beliefs of the followers  of Islam and of Christianity. Among these, the grave insult to the sanctities  of the Islamic world, which is regarded as blasphemy and apostasy by one billion  Muslims has resulted in serious damage, even more severe than violations of the  integrity of individuals and nations. In view of the widespread and effective  response of the Islamic world, as well as the support of a11 who believe in  respecting the sacred beliefs of other peoples and nations, we hope that such a  situation Will not be repeated in the future. Only thus cari we prove our  sincerity and commitment to the principle of protecting various cultures and  respecting the sacred beliefs of the peoples and nations of the world.
11.20 Another issue that should be noted is the continuing oppression of the  resisting and struggling Palestinians by the criminal and usurping regime of  Quds. This is an ail-out oppression of the life, property, freedom and basic  and fundamental rights of Palestinians and is destroying their cultural  heritage, which, in fact, belongs to a11 mankind. It has also led to the  desecration of Islamic holy places in Jerusalem and other occupied territories,  abuse of the Quran which is the Book of Muslims, violation of the sacred beliefs  of Islam, imposition of limitation on religious activities, and dozens of other  similar cases.
11.21 The establishment of international and regional peace has also been  obstructed by racial discrimination in South Africa and the oppression of blacks  by the South African regime; the problem in Lebanon and the hostile acts of the  regime occupying Palestine in alliance with its local stooges against Lebanese  Muslims and national groups; the situation in Afghanistan where a Muslim nation  is being deprived of the right to determine its own destiny and to establish a  popular Islamic system; and blatant interventions by the United States in the  interna1 affairs of various countries and regions, particularly in our Islamic  homeland; which always met with the firm resistance of the people and,  therefore, failed to achieve its objectives.
11.22 On the basis of its convictions, the Islamic Republic of Iran has been  striving to promote and strengthen regional and international coexistence and  peace. Thus, while accepting resolution 598 adopted by the United Nations  Security Council, the Islamic Republic of Iran insists on a just peace, which  cari only be achieved through full implementation of the resolution based on the  proposed plan of the Secretary-General. We hope that, with the support of the  international community - including that of Unesco - this objective Will be    immediately realized, despite a11 the existing hindrances. On the international  level, it is our sincere hope that, by removing the existing obstacles and  thwarting unreasonable attempts to gain superiority, as well as by promoting  friendly relations, a basis Will be provided for the growth and prosperity of  mankind and a11 that human societies Will be mobilized in order to fulfil these  noble human objectives and achieve cultural development based on universal  values that Will radically discourage a return to the state of conflict.
11.23 In conclusion, we wish this Conference every success in achieving its  objectives, SO strengthening peace and understanding and the material and  spiritual prosperity of a11 the nations of the world.
12. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran, and
1 give the floor to H.E. Mr Bertel Haarder, Minister of Education and Research  and head of the delegation of Denmark.
13.1 Mr HAARDER (Denmark):  Mr President, may 1 first of a11 congratulate you on your election to  the presidency of this important session, which has every possibility of marking  a new start for Unesco.
13.2 We have witnessed a shift in the leadership of ouf Organization,  changes in the structure, and a number of efforts to concentrate resources on  fewer priority areas. That is good. Unesco is on the right track. But a shadow  has appeared that threatens not only our consensus, but also our chance of ever  becoming a universal Organization again. 1 am referring to the proposed changes  in the communication programme in the Draft Medium-Term Plan, and 1 Will explain  in greater detail what 1 see as the problem.
13.3 First, 1 want to underline that Denmark is in favour of Unesco  programmes to assist the developing countries in building up their media  infrastructures. We are in favour of promoting practical development aid, for  example by providing education and training for journalists. Concerning  development aid, we are among the countries in the world making the highest per  capita contribution. We want to strengthen co-operation between professionals  across borders, and - of course - without government interference. While doing  this, however, we want to give the highest priority to action for media freedom  and freedom of speech. We want to leave behind us the concepts of the new world  information and communication order and of the mass media declaration of 1978.  We want to give low priority to any kind of studies or conferences which could  be interpreted as steps towards normative regulation of the media or of the  relations between governments and the media.
13.4 Al1 these objectives have been reflected in the Draft Medium-Term Plan  and the Draft Programme and Budget for 1990-1991. We were satisfied with this. 1  want to make it clear, Mr President, that my country Will oppose any attempt to  reverse or weaken these priorities. We must not link the flow of information to  certain purposes, thereby making the free flow of information a means instead of  an end, because that Will enable any government to suppress the flow of any  information it does not like.
13.5 1 Will give you some examples to spell it out. We Will not accept  political attacks on the activities of the free media in the text. We insist On  keeping the words, 'free flow of information' in the text. We Will not accept  the linking of a 'free flow' of information with a so-called 'wider and better  balanced dissemination of information', because the last words are well known as  code words for the legalization of State interference with the media. Likewise,  there is an unfortunate reference to what the media should accomplish, although  an intergovernmental organization like Unesco should not interfere with the  contents of the media. We want to keep the reference in the text to support for  and development of independent media. We also want to keep in the text the  important programme on data collection concerning media freedom.
13.6 Mr President, it follows from this that the changes proposed to the  communication programme by the Executive Board cannot be regarded as minor  adjustments to an otherwise acceptable text. We do not share that point of VieW.  On the contrary, we regard the changes as a very critical step backwards. 1 find  it very fortunate that several Member States, having reflected on the  consequences of the proposals of the Executive Board, are now ready to  reconsider their attitude to what Unesco's role in communication should be. In  that connection, 1 also want to congratulate the Director-General on  document 25 C/4, Annex II (Part II), published yesterday, which Will - I am  sure - greatly facilitate our work in the fields of communication.
13.7 1 would also like to inform you that my government has proposed a draft  resolution on communication. This resolution aims at upholding the protection Of
209    freedom of the press. It aims at the same time at promoting the development of  communication and information in developing countries, in order to help fil1 the  considerable gw between industrialized and developing countries in  communication and information capacities.
13.8 Mr President, in his inauguration speech two years ago, the  Director-General enumerated the kw issues around which the necessary  concentration should be achieved, namely, literacy, protection of the  environment in harmony with man, promotion of science in the service of man,  application of knowledge for the benefit of developing countries, and  co-operation and cultural development of and among people and nations. My  government is in full agreement with these intentions and we have therefore  followed and participated in the process of putting together the Draft  Medium-Term Plan (1990-1995) and the Draft Programme and Budget for 1990-1991  emanating from that Medium-Term Plan.
13.9 When my government received the Draft Medium-Term Plan and the Draft  Programme and Budget in April this year, we found them a major step in the right  direction, as regards both the degree of concentration and the key areas towards  which substantial shares of resources are directed. In view of these positive  developments in Unesco policies under the new leadership, the Danish  International Development Agency (DANIDA) has, during the last year, upgraded  its co-operation with Unesco and is ready to continue to do SO. The projects SO  far approved are mainly in the field of communication, but DANIDA is prepared to  consider other fields as well, such as education, and particularly assistance  for women and projects furthering human rights.
13.10 Danish bilateral development assistance is designed to meet basic human  needs by mobilizing the recipient's own human resources. Promotion of human  rights is seen as an integrated part of such a strategy. 1 would like to take  this opportunity to underline the importance we attach to fully integrating the  human rights dimension into the development strategies of international  organizations as well.
13.11 In the opinion of my government, the most important global challenges  within Unesco's mandate are threats to the environment, the growing rate of  illiteracy, the imbalance in the development of science and technology between  industrialized and developing countries, and the need to protect and develop our  common cultural heritage. My government is therefore happy to see that the  Programmes seem to revolve around these themes.
13.12 In education we are happy to see that pride of place has been given to  the struggle against illiteracy. We agree that a two-pronged strategy covering  primary education and informa1 and adult education is a promising one. We  believe, however, on the basis of our own Danish experience dating back to the  last Century, that adult education should take a stronger place both in the  Medium-Term Plan and in the programmes. We are looking forward to the many  initiatives that Will be set in motion by International Literacy Year 1990, both  nationally and internationally. We also welcome the four-agency initiative of  holding - in March next year - the World Conference on Education for All, which  is to take place in Thailand. We very much hope that Unesco Will use that  Conference to assert its role as the leading education organization of the  United Nations, and my government is prepared to assist Unesco in preparing for  the Conference.
13.13 My government also shares the ambition to promote cultural dialogue  between the industrialized and the developing countries, inter alia in the  context of the World Decade for Cultural Development.
13.14 The proposed programmes in science are more closely geared than in the  past towards meeting challenges of global concern. Programmes such as those of  the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission and Man and the Biosphere cari  help to counter the negative effects of pollution. The transfer of scientific  and technological knowledge from industrialized to developing countries by  training and networking is also very useful.
13.15 As regards the issue of the status of women, my government is very  pleased that Unesco has recognized its cross-cutting nature and incorporated  women's issues into the various parts of the Medium-Term Plan. 1 see promise in  many of the activities contemplated. They bear witness to the growing  recognition of the great development potential of women, particularly in the  Third World. We must endeavour to utilize these resources to enhance the status  of women, but also to benefit the entire society in which they live and work.
13.16 Mr President, on the foundation of the progress made over the last two  years there seem to be good prospects for making Unesco a universally respected  and universal member of the United Nations family once more. But both the
210    Director-General and the Member States must be willing to make further essential  efforts. My country is ready to help Unesco become an instrument for meeting  global challenges in its area of competence. 1 wish success to a11 of us. Thank  YOU, Mr President.
14. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the Danish delegation and 1 now cal1 on  H.E. Mr Jeremiah Tetaga, Secretary for Education and head of the delegation of  Papua New Guinea.
15.1 Mr TETAGA (Papua New Guinea):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, Mr President, allow me  to join the previous speakers in taking this opportunity, on behalf of my  government, to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the  twenty-fifth session of the Unesco General Conference. Your unanimous election  is an indication of Member States' confidence in your ability to carry out the  duties of this high office. We also take this opportunity to thank your  predecessor for the task he has performed SO well for the past two years.
15.2 Mr President, some Pacifie islands are difficult to reach, and if one  does reach the destination, one may find it difficult to get out. This being the  case, the Pacifie island countries remain perhaps the last frontier countries of  Unesco. The Apia office, of course, serves as Unesco's last outpost. Despite  this fact, Unesco is making progress in the region.
15.3 Mr President, my country welcomes the admission to Unesco of Djibouti,  the Cook Islands and the Republic of Kiribati. Their decision to join Unesco  indicates their recognition of the role Unesco cari play in their overall  development.
15.4 In this connection, Mr President, my government recognizes the  contribution made by a distinguished member of the Executive Board, Mr Gough  Whitlam, who was instrumental in making it possible for the two Pacifie  countries to join Unesco.
15.5 TO us, as a member of the South Pacifie community, the admission of the  Cook Islands and the Republic of Kiribati is very encouraging. Noting,  Mr President, the increase in membership of the South Pacifie States, it is  Papua New Guinea's belief that the South Pacifie subregion must be equitably  represented on the Unesco Executive Board.
15.6 Mr President, it is a fact that more than half of the Member States of  Unesco corne under the category of developing countries, of which my country is  one. Developing countries are characterized by poverty, a high illiteracy rate,  a high infant mortality rate, over-population, inadequate medical services and  communication infrastructure, the lack of a sound economic base and inadequate  access to basic education. These are but a few of the trademarks associated with  developing countries.
15.7 Mr President, Unesco, as a Specialized Agency of the United Nations, is  endowed with ingenuity and has been and continues to be a catalyst in addressing  many of the issues which 1 mentioned a moment ago. Perhaps more than our  predecessors, the problems and issues our generation faces outweigh the  solutions which we are able to provide. Despite this, my government maintains  its confidence in Unesco. Unesco cari prove itself equal to the task in the  fields of its competence.
15.8 This leads me, Mr President, to reflect on some of Unesco's major  concerns as outlined in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1990-1991.
15.9 Firstly, 1 would like to turn to Major Programme Area 1. It is the firm  belief of the Papua New Guinea Government that the strength of the nation and  its future lies in its human resources. The people's rights to education and  employment are also enshrined in the national Constitution. The Constitution of  Papua New Guinea submits that the maximum participation and involvement of the  people in the economy and the affairs of the nation is possible only through  education. Education, whether forma1 or informal, is the principal mechanism for  developing human skills and knowledge. Papua New Guinea, like most developing  countries, believes that the rapid quantitative expansion of education is the  only means of giving access to education to a greater percentage of the  population. My government, therefore, places education high on the priority list  of its social sector programmes.
15.10 There are three main programme headings under Major Programme Area I  that are identical to the Papua New Guinea Government's major statements on
211    education, namely: 'Towards basic education for all'; 'Education for the  twenty-first Century'; and 'Promoting the advancement of education'.
15.11 Mr President, my government supports Subprogramme 1.1.1 - Massive  reduction of illiteracy, and its own initiative in combating illiteracy is  beginning to gain momentum. However, lack of the most recent information on the  rate of literacy achieved and what remains to be accomplished prevent me frOm  expanding on this issue here.
15.12 What is certain is that my government's intention is to reduce  illiteracy to a minimum. Though no target has been set, the long-term plan is to  eradicate mass illiteracy, thereby lessening its effect on the economy. A major  literacy programme has been initiated under the 1989 sector programme. The  objective is to work towards increasing the literacy rate by 2 per cent by the  year 1993; to increase the availability and appropriateness of development  information available to community groups with particular emphasis on women and  youth, and to facilitate feedback from these groups; and to increase  understanding of changes by the integration of local knowledge with new  information.
15.13 Implementation of the literacy programme Will be managed and  co-ordinated by a national body called the 'National Literacy and Awareness  Council' with a Secretariat and six project co-ordinators. Provincial project  CO-ordination is encouraged to initiate village base projects which are aimed at  enabling second-chance learners to acquire such basic skills as writing and  simple arithmetic; cooking, sewing and mothercraft, including baby tare and  basic hygiene; other skills appropriate to improving life in a rural CommunitY;  and skills relevant to improving and increasing the income of the local people,  thereby also helping to improve the rural economy.
15.14 Whilst discussing, the literacy programme, I would like to make special  mention of the Melanesian Literacy Programme which Will caver the three  Melanesian countries of Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, and Vanuatu. We  hope that the programme envisaged Will receive technical and financial  assistance from Unesco.
15.15 Mr President, with regard to Subprogramme 1.1.2, my government's  objective here is to work towards the attainment of the goal of universal  primary education by the year 2000, the main thrust being to raise primary  school enrolment from 73 to 100 per cent by the year 2000. This cari be achieved,  we hope, by a rapid expansion of base level education and by improving the  retention rate in primary schools.
15.16 My government, in its 1989 budget, has set aside a substantial amount  of funding to achieve the objectives of this programme.
15.17 My government also welcomes the special project on the Young Child and  the family. In fact my Ministry was commissioned to undertake a study and review  the philosophy of education. On the basis of the recommendations of this study,  my government is attempting to address the issues concerned in respect of Young  children and the family.
15.18 Mr President, my government views Programme 1.2, 'Education for the  twenty-first Century', and its subprogrammes as realistic. 1 wish to make a  special mention regarding Subprogramme 1.2.2, 'Education for the quality Of  life. In many developing countries where old superstitious beliefs prevail it is  difficult to change the attitudes of the masses overnight. Hence, my government  is attempting to make a start by including in the secondary school curriculum  subject-areas related to socially transmitted diseases, including AIDS. TO  complement these efforts, Papua New Guinea would welcome Unesco's CO-operation  in the translation and publication of materials in vernacular languages for  masses who do not understand English.
15.19 My government supports Programme 1.3 and its subprogrammes as well. We  believe that education policies and strategies are essential for present and  future directions in the development of education. The management and planning  of education development are equally important. My government is confident that  its efforts for the improvement of these areas cari be complemented by Unesco.
15.20 Mr President, let me now turn to Major Programme Area III, 'Culture:  past, present and future'. As we are a11 aware, culture forms the very basis of  our existence, human heritage and identity. My government, therefore supports  this major programme area and its three main programmes. Under  Subprogramme 111.1.1, my government Will, within its resources, implement some  of the activities set out in the draft programme and budget. Papua New Guinea  appreciates, Mr President, the assistance SO far received from Unesco in the  training of our personnel, and we look forward to Unesco's continued assistance  in this area.
15.21 Concerning Subprogramme 111.1.2, 'Books and the production of Cultural  goods', 1 would also like to convey my government's sincere appreciation to  Unesco for its contribution. Furthermore, Mr President, it gives me great  pleasure to make a special mention of the contribution that the Asian Cultural  Centre for Unesco is providing in the form of cultural kits and the production  of children's reading materials. My government strongly supports the joint  effort displayed SO far by Unesco and ACCU in the region.
15.22 Mr President, my government recognizes and sets great store by  Subprogramme 111.2.1, 'The physical cultural heritage'. Any given community or  society identifies itself with its origins in the past and its present existence  through its cultural property. Although my government has yet to ratify Unesco's  standard-setting instruments, we do acknowledge the value of such instruments  which safeguard what is to be regarded as one's cultural heritage.
15.23 We further support Major Programme Area III and its three main  programmes as outlined in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1990-1991.
15.24 Papua New Guinea, Mr President, has a rich and diverse cultural  heritage. A country with a little over three and a half million inhabitants, it  has over 700 different languages and over 200 distinct cultures. What is more,  we have a settlement history of over 50,000 years - making it one of the oldest  in the Pacifie.
15.25 However, the forces of exchange in Papua New Guinea have radically  affected traditional cultures, many of whose cultural forms and manifestations  have already disappeared or are threatened with extinction today. The causes of  this disintegration are the inevitable concomitants of economic development and  'modernization', heavily dominated by forces external to rural society. Rapid  technological progress has brought machines and machine-made implements even to  the villages. Traditional crafts and their associated techniques and values are  fast disappearing, for their functional uses and aesthetic codes have been  superseded. The spread of industry, communications and rapid urban growth have  caused a severe disruption of traditional village social structure. Villagers  are themselves moving into the towns to seek more lucrative employment and are  obviously unable to take the least trace of their cultural roots with them.
15.26 Mr President, it is because of the above that my country endorses Major  Programme Area III, its main programmes and their respective subprogrammes.
15.27 The World Decade for Cultural Development deserves special mention.  Mr President, Papua New Guinea wishes to see balanced development between  economic and technological advances on the one hand and cultural development on  the other, both enhancing the quality of life. In this regard, my country is in  the process of establishing a committee which Will be responsible for  co-ordinating a11 matters relating to the Decade.
15.28 1 should add that the training of cultural personnel and the need to  document and research ouf fast-disappearing cultures continue to be of the  highest priority for my government. This area Will continue to require  assistance from Unesco.
15.29 Taking a broader view, Mr President, my country reiterates its desire  to see greater involvement of Unesco in the Pacifie subregion in a11 its areas  of competence. In particular, Mr President, Papua New Guinea renews its cal1 for  the upgrading of the Unesco subregional office in Apia.
15.30 My country fully supports the subregional consultative report and its  recommendation to reinstate the cultural adviser's position as well as to  establish science and communication advisers' posts at the Apia office.
15.31 Under Major Programme Area IV, 'Communication in the service of  humanity', my government asserts its support for Programmes 1 and 2 and the  respective subprogrammes. Our special interest is in the training of personnel  in the three distinct areas of communication: the broadcast, printed and  electronic media.
15.32 Whilst on the subject of Major Programme Area IV, it gives me great  pleasure to express my government's appreciation of the PACJOURN project in the  Pacifie subregion. We are also grateful to the Government of the Federal  Republic of Germany for having made it possible for the project to be continued.  We hope that in due course Unesco Will consider incorporating training at a11  levels for professions in the print media under the PACJOURN project.
15.33 In closing, Mr President, my government expresses its continued  support for the Organization and the noble ideals for which it stands. My
213    government, places its confidence in Unesco in the hope that its vast experience  in education science, culture and communication cari be shared for the benefit of  mankind. Thank you.
16. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Papua New Guinea, and 1 now cal1  on H.E. Mr Mahboub El Badawi, Minister of Education and head of the delegation  of Sudan.
(17.1) Mr EL BADAWI (Sudan)(Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,  Mr Director-General, heads of delegations, delegates, it gives me pleasure to bring  you warm greetings and sincere congratulations from the Government and people of  Sudan on the occasion of Unesco’s twenty-fifth General Conference. Our hopes and  expectations are high that the decisions and recommendations of the Conference Will  further serve to achieve Unesco’s ultimate aim of bringing a better life to a11 the  peoples of the world through developments in every field of human endeavour.
(17.2) Mr President, 1 should like to congratulate you personally on your election  to preside over the General Conference. Thanks to your abilities, your wealth of  experience and your good relations with others, we are confident that you Will  succeed in discharging the tasks of this high office with ski11 and efficiency. At  the same time, we would like to express our thanks and gratitude to the chairman and  members of the Executive Board, to the Director-General and to the staff of the  Secretariat whose achievements in implementing the projects of the previous plan  have been of great benefit to our people. Further thanks are due for their efforts  in preparing the draft programme and budget and the draft third Medium-Term Plan.  The plan ensures a happy balance between various activities, stresses effective
6  implementation and emphasizes the need for Unesco to increase its resources, its  presence in Member States and its close CO-ordination with the other Specialized  Agencies. We support the proposed amendments put forward by the Executive Board.  Thanks are also due to Unesco for its efforts with regard to priorities in Africa  and to the Director-General for his proposals to develop the African continent and  to help it to bridge the enormous gap which separates it from the advanced world.
(17.3) Mr President, it gives me pleasure to reaffirm our gratitude and  appreciation for the highly developed and fruitful co-operation between Unesco and  our country, particularly in the present circumstances, which are marked by  recurrent natural disasters, civil war and economic difficulties. Far-sighted  initiatives were taken at the time of the flood disaster by the Director-General,  Sefior Mayor, by his persona1 representative in the Arab world, the director of  Unesco’s Regional Office in the Arab States, Dr Muhammad Ibrahim Kazem and by their  staffs. One example of this was the pilot project for training and educating people  to respond to natural disasters and to accustom them to difficult circumstances.  These and other projects have had a profound influence in consolidating our own  national efforts and lessening dependence on much appreciated international aid.
(17.4) Mr President, our co-operation has covered many f ields and Unesco’s  visiting experts, in particular, have worked fruitfully together with our own  specialists. The Secretariat and the specialized Regional Offices have provided  numerous opportunities for training national cadres through regional and  international gatherings for education, culture, science and communications. Special  mention must be made here of the capable efforts of the International Institute for  Educational Planning whose role is especially important in view of the urgent need  to raise the level of Sudanese nationals in this significant field. There has also  been excellent co-operation with our country through the programmes and activities  of the CO-ordination Unit at the Educational Innovation Programme for Development in  the Arab States (EIPDAS). Nevertheless, we feel that the unit needs support to carry  out the programmes to which it is committed. Finally, the science, technology,  culture and communications sector has made significant material and technical  contributions in various fields.
(17.5) Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  heads of delegations, it goes without saying that the Third Medium-Term Plan is the  result of close co-operation between Unesco and the Member States. Nevertheless,  there are differences in priorities, particularly as far as the developing countries  are concerned. For this reason, implementation of the Programme and Budget must be  flexible in order to ensure the best possible correspondence between the priorities  of the developed and the developing countries. In our case, the priorities lie in  the field of general education where we are concentrating on three main axes.  Firstly, there is the strategy for basic education, which must be made universally  available, as this is the minimum to which every person is entitled. The acquisition  of skills must be ensured and efforts exerted to achieve greater equality of  opportunity in education between the sexes and between town and country. We have to  address the question of dropping-out, a problem which becomes more acute the higher  the student ascends the educational ladder. The problems of general education have  increased because of the civil war and because of natural disasters like flood,  drought and desertification. The resulting displacement of populations has upset the  demographic balance and the limited resources available are inadequate to tope with  the adverse effects on general education.
(17.6) The second axis is concerned with adult education and the eradication of  illiteracy. It remains a primary strategic goal to educate citizens SO that they are  capable of making a contribution to their country. We have, therefore, taken the  necessary steps for a national campaign designed to bolster the Unesco initiatives  of International Literacy Year and adult education. In the same context, we are  looking forward to positive results from the proceedings of the international  conference on ‘Education for All’ to be held in Bangkok, Thailand in March 1990. Its  recommendations should help to provide further options and alternatives in achieving  our goal of providing universal primary education and combating illiteracy. We thank  Unesco for generously inviting us to participate in this conference.
(17.7) The third axis is that of technical education. The intention is to provide  an educational content which meets the needs and abilities of the student while  satisfying the requirements of overall development and keeping pace with  technological progress. The aim of my country’s plan is to expand the technical  education base and, at the same time, to reduce merely academic instruction.  Educational content is to be improved through the introduction of practical skills  and abilities. Our aim is to develop the human resources needed in an advanced  society, a society to which the student must make a responsible and effective  contribution in order to achieve a better quality of life.
(17.8) Despite a11 the great and genuine efforts which our country has made to  improve the quality and to expand the infrastructure of education, many factors have  limited the extent to which this goal could be achieved. In particular, acute
217    problems have arisen due to a massive influx of refugees from neighbouring  countries. As they have remained with us for many years, it has been necessary to  provide basic education for their children. This has put great pressure on the  modest educational resources available, with consequent adverse effects on the  educational opportunities open to the children of the Sudanese themselves.
(17.9) With regard to higher education and scientific research, there is a growing  need for the training of professional cadres in a11 fields and for the improvement  of library and laboratory facilities. CO-ordination is required between scientific  and research activities in order to obtain the maximum benefit from material and  human resources. These must be placed at the service of science and progress,  particularly in relation to planning, the exploitation of natural resources, the  uses of the environment and the consolidation of pure and applied science. We cal1  for increased co-operation and CO-ordination between the advanced countries and  those of the Third World to develop scientific resources.
(17.10) Mr President, in my country, culture and communications are given the  highest priority as they form the very basis for close ties and understanding  between the peoples of the world. This is why the assistance of Unesco and the  advanced countries is needed to maintain and develop the cultural heritage and to  ensure the harmony and mutual enrichment of varied cultures without confrontation or  subversion. Technological development in the field of communications Will not yield  the returns that might be expected unless Unesco seeks to help the developing  countries to use communication resources and the free flow of information in order  to promote international peace, mutual understanding and comprehensive development.
(17.11) 1 should like to emphasize the importance of human aspects in a world of  change and interdependence, where environmental problems adversely affect health,  society and the economy. This is exemplified in such questions as waste disposal,  environmental pollution and damage to the ozone layer. Those who suffer most from  such problems are the poor countries of the Third World. Let us note here the  paucity of resources available for programmes in this vital area, the effect of  which is to reduce the aid provided by Unesco to many Member States. Thus, we would  hope to see close international co-operation to deal with environmental issues and  to tackle social problems, such as drugs, which cannot be solved without  co-ordinated international efforts.
(17.12) Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  heads of delegations, delegates, 1 feel sure that 1 am expressing the feelings of  everyone here when 1 say that there is a general sense of hope and satisfaction over  disarmament efforts and the quest for détente which have done SO much to remove  tension from international relations. This has helped people to forget the past and  to look seriously and objectively at peace options which Will ensure world  development. However, the general feeling of satisfaction is tinged with sorrow and  bitterness at the deliberate infringement of basic human rights by Apartheid and  Zionism, regimes which scorn international conventions and obstruct the peace  efforts of the international community. The Palestinian people have risen up to  seize their rights and remain steadfast behind their revolution. The people of South  Africa meanwhile continue to struggle against the inhuman yoke of Apartheid, a force  which also bears down heavily on the heroic people of Namibia and obstructs their  path to independence.
(17.13) We cal1 on Unesco and the Member States to contribute to effective action  to bring about peace in Lebanon and to ensure the independence and unity of that  country. We also praise the Arab effort to achieve this end. With regard to the Arab  Gulf region, we hail the sincere peace efforts of Iraq. For humanitarian reasons and  to bring about a normalization of relations, we demand the immediate release of a11  prisoners of war.
(17.14) It gives me great pleasure to inform your excellencies and the Conference  at large that the Sudanese Government has developed clear-tut ideas to end the war  in the south and to bring peace to the country as a result of the national dialogue  organized in the Sudan, with the participation of leaders from both north and south.  We hope that the international community, headed by Unesco, Will play a full part in  achieving human rights and in helping to promote efforts to bring about a permanent  peace here and throughout the whole world.
(17.15) Mr President, we need hardly stress the importance of the role of the  Arabie language - the language of the Koran used by Muslims throughout the world -  and the leading role of Arab culture in enriching and advancing human civilization.  However, it is essential to point out that Unesco must give the Arabie language and  Arab culture their proper place in the programmes and budget of the Organization.  Human experience as a whole Will benefit from the mutual interaction of Arabie with  other languages and of Arab culture with other cultures.
(17.16) Mr President, allow me to conclude my address by congratulating you once  more on your election as Conference President and wishing you every success in your  efforts. We would also like to express our thanks and appreciation to the Chairman
218    and members of the Executive Board and to the Director-General and his staff for  their constructive and successful efforts to achieve the goals of the Organization  through implementation of the Programme and Budget. 1 would further like to take  this opportunity to cal1 on Member States through this General Conference to help  Sudan to overcome the devastation suffered by educational establishments - in  particular, primary school buildings and equipment - as a result of the heavy rains  and flooding. The destruction has corne at a time when the country is making every  effort to provide every person with the universal primary education which we  consider to be a right. This is a fundamental goal which is pursued by every Third  World country with the help of this great Organization and other agencies. 1 should  like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak on this occasion and 1 wish  the Conference every success.
(18.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank Mr El Badawi, Minister of Education of Sudan.
18.2 May 1 now invite H.E. Dr Gustavo Roosen, Minister of Education and head  of the delegation of Venezuela, to take the floor.
(19.1) Mr ROOSEN (Venezuela)(Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Ministers, Delegates: Mr President, 1  should like to join a11 those who took the floor before me in expressing my  satisfaction at your election to conduct the debates of this twenty-fifth session of  the General Conference of Unesco. My delegation is fully confident that, under your  guidance, we shall secure the success of this session, which is expected to be vital  for the immediate and medium-term future of this important Organization. 1 also take  pleasure in thanking the Director-General and the Secretariat for the interesting  and instructive documents prepared for this occasion which were placed at the  disposa1 of the participating delegations in good time.
(19.2) The forum where we are meeting today has its place in one of the most  important bodies of the United Nations system. Today more than ever, it is fitting  to remember that this Organisation was founded with the objective that it should be  a fundamental and active instrument in the maintenance of peace, the consolidation  of human rights and the promotion of understanding among peoples, this being the  purpose which was assigned to it by the Member States present at its inception and  which is today, near the end of the Century, even more valid and significant. The  preservation of cultural values and identity, the extension of the benefit of  education to a11 levels of society, adequate access to technical innovation, the  advancement of science and the formulation of a better balanced universal policy for  communications have been some of the channels through which Unesco has made concrete  contributions to the ultimate objective of safeguarding peace.
(19.3) This work is, however, being hindered by worries of another kind which are  exercising the minds of our statesmen, our politicians, the experts who work in the  United Nations system, and of other private and public international organizations.  The harsh and twisted world of economic relations today takes up the greater part of  the attention and efforts of these bodies. Questions of foreign debt and development  leave little room for much else.
(19.4) In Latin America alone, the debt is of the order of $480,000 million and is  shared by a group of countries which, for quite some time, have been suffering from  critical shortages of food, health facilities, housing and education. Despite the  recent percentage increase in the relative indicators of literacy levels in some of  these countries, the number of illiterates, expressed in absolute terms, still  constitutes a heavy burden on society. The overwhelming effect of such difficulties,  which thwart a11 socio-economic development efforts in the underdeveloped countries,  has been to make us fertile ground for the cultivation, industrialization and export  of products related to drug trafficking, while at the same time giving us a more  acute sense of the great material and moral consequences of this terrible social  evil.
(19.5) Venezuela has adopted a very firm and responsible attitude towards these  problems, taking steps and making declarations which have produced significant  results bath in the domestic context and in the United Nations and other  international bodies. Taking the same stance, we cari today tackle them in the  substantive context of this forum, since their essentially socio-political nature  gives them a heavy impact on developments in Unesco’s main areas of competence:  education, science, culture and communication. In our opinion, Mr President, drugs,  foreign debt and extreme poverty are, of the many ills directly affecting the very  essence of society, three which have negative consequences and a high incidence of  direct effects in the fields of education, science, culture and communication. It  Will consequently not be easy to corne to an agreement on decisive action for dealing  with them on a permanent basis, unless human behaviour is fortified against these  calamities by the systematic influence of these four fundamental aspects of social  behaviour in the modern world.
(19.6) The emergency created by debt problems often precludes a search for  fundamental solutions. We thus repeatedly have to choose between what is urgent and  what is important; the decisions that must be taken in the short term and the  policies that should be drawn up for the medium and long term. In the light of  recent history and the present circumstances, it cari be claimed that injustice is  still a burden for the developing countries. The latter have, however, begun to  realize that there is a very close link between material well-being, the acquisition  of skills and the development of our potential in terms of human resources.
(19.7) The link between better education and the prospect of improving the  economic situation in our countries is readily acknowledged in the industrialized  world. Such improvements are thus only seen as a means whereby the poor countries  cari generate more resources with which to pay their debts. What one does not usually  hear as often in the industrialized countries is that when greater pressure is  brought to bear on the poor countries to induce them to pay their debts, they are  obliged drastically to tut down on those resources which, if used for education,  science and technology, would bring economic and social improvements in the medium  and long term. Unesco cannot remain aloof from the search for rationality and the  values which make it possible for human beings to live in dignity and to improve the  quality of life.
(19.8) The President of my country, in a recent speech to the General Assembly of  the United Nations, drew the attention of the international community to the fact  that if this situation were not warded off by concrete action, there would be, to  quote President Perez, ‘the unavoidable danger of a social upheaval involving more  than a thousand million people, and the industrialized nations, which today remain  strangely unmoved by the rapid worsening of this crisis, will also be affected by  its consequences’.
(19.9) These grave circumstances highlight the fact that it will only be possible  to reach the levels of development that our nations need if the benefits of  knowledge, education and advances in science and technology are equally accessible  to a11 States and to a11 social strata, and if, in addition, communications become  fairer and more equitable for a11 who are active in the international system. It  cornes as no surprise that many countries suffer at one and the same time from drugs,  illiteracy and excessively unhealthy conditions in the deprived areas of the major  cities. This shows how extreme poverty cuts across the social and cultural spectrum.  It should be noted that in a11 groups where it prevails, whether in the countryside  or the towns, a low level of education and a high level of illiteracy are cultural  constants.
(19.10) We must accordingly concentrate a11 our efforts on not losing sight of the  indissoluble link between educational and cultural activities and the prospect of
224    gaining access to acceptable levels of well-being for the peoples who are affected  by the world’s economic, financial, commercial and monetary problems.
(19.11) 1 therefore believe that, once again in this distinguished forum, my  delegation could usefully express our conviction that Unesco is alone and  irreplaceable in continuing to study and endeavouring to solve the serious problems  associated with education, science, culture and communications, and the most fitting  instrument for giving practical meaning to international co-operation in these  areas. In the present circumstances, extraordinary and conceptually bold measures  must be taken to give greater impetus to education, culture and science for  development. We accordingly supported the Director-General’s idea, welcomed by the  Group of Eight, that the lending countries and banks might allocate 5 per cent of  the interest from the debt to strengthening Unesco’s programmes, a proposa1 which  has not been put into practice, possibly for technical and legal reasons.
(19.12) There would be workable formulas if the political will existed to put them  into practice, and to this end Venezuela would like to request the authorities of  Unesco to study and promote a measure of the highest significance whose inspiration  was drawn from the recent speech made by President François Mitterrand to the  Venezuelan Congress. It entails exhorting the creditor countries to make it  possible, through amendments to their banking and tax laws, for a multilateral  agency to buy the loan certificates of the less-developed countries at a discount  from the banks. The agency could then lend the capital thus reduced, for periods of  time and on terms which would enable the debtor countries to pledge themselves to  invest the resources made available, under Unesco’s guidance, SO as to expand  programmes for literacy teaching and the introduction of basic education for all.
(19.13) Along the same lines, we believe that it is vitally necessary on this  occasion to review Unesco’s present role in these areas in a very responsible  manner, and we must ask ourselves if the third Medium-Term Plan, which we shall  shortly begin to consider, efficiently maps out the paths to the major objectives  that were set when Unesco was first established.
(19.14) In the same way, the deliberations on the draft budget provide a fitting  opportunity to determine whether we are dealing appropriately with Unesco’s allotted  tasks, in the light of its objectives and of the resources and machinery available  with which to accomplish them, and to the establishment of the reforms needed if its  activities in the international sphere are to be more fruitful.
(19.15) Venezuela acknowledges the advantages of bilateralism as a framework of  inter-State relationships but, at the same time , gives its unreserved support to the  multilateral system represented by the international organizations. We should  therefore look into the shortcomings of an inefficient universalism in this  Organization, which should be the mainstay of international co-operation in the  fields of education, science, culture and communication.
(19.16) The withdrawal of the countries which decided, we hope temporarily, to  abandon the ranks of the Organization should provide food for constructive thought  for a11 those who believe in the principle of universality without confrontation  between cultures, regions or blocs of countries, and Venezuela will accordingly  support any resolution that is aimed at restoring such universality.
(19.17) Mr President, 1 now wish to refer openly to a subject which 1 know is  controversial. It was SO controversial that it played a role in the withdrawal of  some members of the Organization. My government has no desire to take issue with the  reasons put forward by these countries for their withdrawal, but is certain that  open discussion will facilitate a return which Unesco greatly needs, as much in the  context of ideas as for financial reasons. 1 am here referring to the subject of  communications. 1 corne from a country where the history of democracy has been  associated with freedom of speech and of the press. Our mass media are essentially  free. Their editors and proprietors, writers and journalists enjoy the fullest  possible freedom within the law, and 1 cari assure you that they have been ardent  defenders of democratic principles and human rights. Venezuelan society, in which 1  here expressly include the senders and receivers of messages, openly supports and  defends freedom of expression. We Venezuelans respect and encourage freedom of  initiative in the field of communications as being the best guarantee against  totalitarian systems, and the best means of conducting open analysis of the activity  of the State and the problems affecting society. 1 lay great stress on this policy,  because 1 also wish to say that Venezuelan society is still not altogether satisfied  with the national or international situation in the field of communications.  Venezuelan citizens realize that the information they receive from the outside world  is very unevenly balanced. My government, aware of the fact that this imbalance is  acknowledged by a11 States, is certain that if there were a frank and thoughtful  discussion involving the different positions at this Conference, this would  facilitate the return to Unesco of the countries which are absent and, consequently,  a return to universality.
(19.18) Neither do we, the nations which still continue, in a responsible manner,  to make their intellectual and material contribution to Unesco’s efforts, wish to  have on our hands a sterile forum of intellectual exchange which makes no tangible  contribution to the crucial themes for which this institution is responsible, and  for the sake of which many of our countries still continue to make great financial  sacrifices.
(19.19) This twenty-fifth session of the General Conference, as we begin to  consider the third Medium-Term Plan, is the occasion on which to explain to the  States that we remain confident about the relevance of Unesco if the requested  budget increase and the subsequent increase in individual contributions are  justifiable in terms of the objectives of the Organization and of the tasks to be  undertaken with this new influx of resources. Budget and objectives, resources and  goals are intrinsically related and must also be examined in the light of what has  been accomplished through the programmes implemented by this specialized body  throughout its history and up to the present moment. In this context, Venezuela,  which is experiencing economic difficulties, is very worried about the prospect of  an increase in the financial obligations of the Member States towards the  Organization. We believe that those who enjoy greater economic solvency have  relatively more responsibility for financing activities that we have in common, and  should accordingly bear a greater part of the burden of the increases, supposing  that these are indispensable.
(19.20) Mr President, 1 think that the time has now corne for me to indicate which  of the themes proposed by the Director-General in his draft third Medium-Term Plan  deserve special attention from my government, and 1 should also like to add that the  delegation of Venezuela Will enter into greater detail when they are discussed in  the various Commissions.
(19.21) It is obvious, and 1 should like to seize this opportunity to point out  once again, that stepping up the fight against illiteracy should be the central axis  of Unesco’s activities and the primary focus of our concern. My country is therefore  giving its strongest support to the Major Project in the Field of Education in Latin  America and the Caribbean and to the Conference on ‘Education for All’ to be held in  Thailand early in 1990. It is unthinkable that a large number of States should have  been forced to interrupt their literacy teaching programmes for lack of the funds  indispensable for continuing them. My government therefore applauds International  Literacy Year and the Plan of Action to Eradicate Illiteracy by the Year 2000.
(19.22) Unesco has a vital role to play in this context, using its policy  instruments to help reactivate programmes in abeyance and to stimulate the  universalization and improvement of basic education. Seen from outside, the  successes won in this field Will add much to the credibility of the Organization  worldwide.
(19.23) Venezuela has sponsored and lent its enthusiastic support, with the hacking  of a large number of Member States, to a draft resolution to study the  establishment, in the short term, of a fellowship bank whose purpose is to speed up  the human resources t raining programmes and improvements in the quality of  education. It was proposed that this task, which cornes under Mobilizing Project 2,  ‘Youth and the Culture of the Future’, be financed out of extra-budgetary funds, and  we therefore urge the competent authorities to begin to identify possible sources of  funding for this project. Special emphasis should likewise be placed on activities  designed to encourage educational exchanges and to promote early dialogue among  Young people destined to hold high office in their countries.
(19.24) Turning to the subject of science, 1 should like to emphasize our support  for the activities proposed, and especially for those concerning North-South  co-operation in informatics. My country believes that making technological knowledge  and access to research and scientific findings universally available are fundamental  objectives in our fight to reduce the gap between ourselves and the industrialized  countries, and to ensure that science serves the cause of progress. National  capacities must be strengthened by the promotion of scientific and technical  education as an addition to the curriculum. In this context, undergraduate and  postgraduate study takes on special significance as a suitable means of capitalizing  through our Young people on the advances in scientific and technical knowledge which  Will become part of the human heritage. TO that end, during this five-year period  Venezuela Will spend up to 2 per cent of its gross national product on strengthening  its share of the budget, and an Inter-Ministerial Committee has been set up to  co-ordinate activities in this important domain.
(19.25) 1 now wish to turn my attention to the approach to cultural matters adopted  in the third Medium-Term Plan which we shall be considering in the next few days. It  would appear that attempts are being made to establish a novel approach to culture  over and above the traditional treatment that it has hitherto received in this  Organization, an approach which its originators have agreed should be closely linked  with the concept of development. In Venezuela we are striving to forge a close link    between the educational and cultural sectors, and this has led to an agreement  between the Ministry of Education and the National Council for Culture and the  CO-ordination of Joint Projects for the Reform of Arts Education. The increase in  resources proposed by the Director-General for cultural programmes must be aimed  squarely at consolidating basic principles such as the preservation and enhancement  of cultural identities, and, at this particular juncture, we must strive to  strengthen links with the activities of the World Decade for Cultural Development,  laying special emphasis on the cultural dimension of development. In this context,  distinguished delegates, 1 should like to mention the fact that Venezuela recently  acceded to the Convention concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and  Natural Heritage, a fact which is tangible proof of the importance that my country  attaches to the universal dimension of culture. We are therefore very worried about  the curtailment of the cultural policies programme of this Organization, and believe  that Unesco should be a catalyst in mobilizing not only its own, but also  extra-budgetary, resources in order to support Member States in the task of raising  public awareness with regard to the values of the cultural heritage.
(19.26) Mr President, before ending my speech 1 should like to draw attention to my  country's support for the Director-General in the implementation of reforms to  enable this Organization to respond more effectively in its fields of competence to  the growing needs of the developing world. The process of decentralization deserves  special mention, and in this connection we hope to know as soon as possible what,  under Unesco’s decentralization programme, Will be the structure and organization of  the Office in Caracas as well as the plans and support to be given to CRESALC as a  centre of influence for higher education in the region of Latin America and the  Caribbean. Once again, we should also like to say that we welcome his efforts to  secure the return to the Organization of the nations which withdrew their support  from it at what was probably the most crucial point in its history. We none the less  believe that our zeal to restore the universal nature of Unesco should not interfere  with the intellectual advances that we have succeeded in making in the past
40 years, nor should it weaken the consensus already achieved in some of these  fields, more especially communication.
(19.27) We believe that Unesco's financial difficulties should lead to a more  rational use of its resources SO that they cari be aimed more efficiently at its  ultimate objective, which is to make this Organization a genuine forum for  co-operation in the fields of culture, science, education and communication.
(19.28) The fragmentation, dispersa1 and atomization of programmes to be seen in  the draft budget cannot be reconciled with the present critical situation in which,  on the contrary, we should be grouping and curtailing activities in line with the  reforms initiated and now under way. Our ski.11 in setting priorities and devising  suitable methodologies for carrying them out should be the challenge facing this  meeting.
(19.29) Venezuela is willing to lend its best and most enthusiastic support to this  exercise, as it has always traditionally done in Unesco. Thank you very much.
20. The PRESIDENT:
1 now cal1 upon the last speaker for today, H.E. the Honourable Gough  Whitlam, former Prime Minister of Australia, member of the Executive Board and  head of the delegation of Australia.
21.1 Mr WHITLAM (Australia):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  Your Excellencies and distinguished delegates, 1 congratulate you, Mr President,  on your election by acclamation as President of the twenty-fifth session of the  General Conference. YOU are the first delegate from Asia and the Pacifie,  Group IV, to hold this post since 1972. In the meantime, every other group and  subgroup has held it. Half of the population of the world has waited 17 years  for its turn. You are a Minister in a country with a dynamic economy and a  vibrant society. Our group and, 1 am sure, the whole Organization are grateful  t0 your Prime Minister, who is arranging for you to devote your time to the  Conference as our President and to the Executive Board through the next two  years as its adviser. You are a Minister of Education. It is singularly  appropriate that YOU should preside over the Conference on the eve of  International Literacy Year, 1990, and advise the Board in the course of that  Year.
21.2 Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, you have served for seven years as  a member of the Executive Board. 1 pay tribute to your sustained and effective  efforts as its Chairman over the last two years, up to its latest meeting last  week, which enabled the Board to present unanimous recommendations to the  Conference and the Nominations Committee.
21.3 Mr Director-General, you have prepared our programmes for the Third  Medium-Term Plan (1990-1995) and for the first biennium of that period on the  basis of the mandate entrusted to Unesco within the United Nations system. The  Programme documents have been clarified and concentrated. TO a degree never  before attained in its isolated eminence in Paris, Unesco, under your  leadership, is co-operating with other organs of the United Nations system.
21.4 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the final resolution adopted at the  twenty-fourth session appealed to the States that had withdrawn to resume their  place in the Organization and invited those States that were not yet members of  the Organization to join it. This resolution Will be my first and main theme.
21.5 For the first time since the twenty-second session six years ago, new  members have joined Unesco. Djibouti, a member of the United Nations since 1977,  has become the first African State to join since 1980. Before the end of the  y-r, Namibia, a member of Unesco since 1978, Will become a fully operational  member under the first government elected by its people. The peoples of a11  illegally occupied territories sooner or later achieve full membership of  Unesco. Group V(a) has achieved universality of membership.
21.6 Australia and New Zealand particularly welcome the Cook Islands and  Kiribati, which are members of several other Specialized Agencies, but not  members of the United Nations Organization. They are the first non-members of  the United Nations to join since Tonga joined in 1980. Their situation was  brought before the Legal Committee during the twenty-fourth
15 November  session. On
1987 the General Conference took note of the Legal Conunittee's  opinion that it might be advisable for a proposa1 to be submitted to the  twenty-fifth session to amend the Constitution to allow the Conference to admit  States not members of the United Nations by a simple majority rather than the  two-thirds majority at present required. This opinion was inspired by a  distinguished member of the Legal Committee, the Chief Justice of Venezuela. The  General Conference also noted the Legal Committee's suggestion that the  Governments of Australia and New Zealand should persuade the authorities of the  Pacifie States to set in motion as soon as possible the procedure laid down in  the Constitution as it stands. Thus, no sooner had two founding members,  Australia and New Zealand, transferred at the twenty-fourth session from Group 1  to Group IV, taking a seat with them, than the General Conference mandated them  to persuade two more States to join Group IV. Both members acted on the Legal  Committee's opinion and suggestion. For this session we proposed the amendment  to the Constitution and we have persuaded both States to join.
21.7 There are still four members of the United Nations in Group IV which  are not members of Unesco. Singapore joined the United Nations and Unesco in
1965 but last attended the General Conference in 1978 and formally gave notice  of withdrawal at the end of 1984. Solomon Islands joined the United Nations in
1978; Vanuatu in 1980; and Brunei in 1984. Since our last session two more  States, Micronesia and the Marshall Islands, have become independent and have  already joined another Specialized Agency, although they Will not be joining the  United Nations. By history and geography, Mr President, no country is better  positioned than yours to persuade Singapore to resume its place, and Brunei to  join. The accession of the Cook Islands and Kiribati brings to eight the number  of members of the South Pacifie Forum that are Member States of Unesco. They a11  hope that Papua New Guinea, which has been a member of Unesco since 1976 but  never a member of the Executive Board, Will now be elected to the Board. The  candidate, who is the head of his country's Department of Education, addressed  the plenary meeting of the General Conference this afternoon. As a member of the  Board and the Forum, Papua New Guinea would be ideally equipped to persuade  Solomon Islands and Vanuatu to join Unesco before the twenty-sixth session of  the General Conference and to persuade Micronesia and Marshall Islands to aPPlY  for admission at that session. Mr Director-General, there are a great number of  Spanish names among those archipelagos. It would be a Splendid consummation for  their application to be supported by their former and successive Spanish,  German, Japanese and American masters and tutors.
21.8 Group IV cari achieve universality of membership in two years. It may,  however, take more than two years to persuade the United States and the United  Kingdom to resume their places in Group 1. Both States have great significance  for us. On 26 June 1945 the Charter of the United Nations was signed in San  Francisco, whose grieving inhabitants are in our thoughts at this time, and  later that year, on 16 November, the Constitution of Unesco was adopted in  London. Unesco continues to be handicapped by the absence of America's  unparalleled financial and intellectual resources. The issues which the United  States officially identifies as obstacles to its rejoining Unesco are not so  much the programmes which Unesco devises on its own  Constitution,  initiative under its own  but the programmes which Unesco is mandated to carry out by the  United Nations itself. At least in matters of education and science, the United  States recognizes that Unesco is indispensable and irreplaceable. On matters Of  culture and communication it is equivocal.
21.9 The United States was the first to ratify Unesco's most popular  Convention, the 1972 World Heritage Convention. During our last session the  States Parties to the Convention showed their appreciation of the United States  resuming its full support for the Convention by electing it at the top of the  list of the seven States chosen to serve on the World Heritage Committee for the  following six years. The United States ratified the 1970 Convention on the Means  of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of  Ownership of Cultural Property shortly before its withdrawal. In May this year,  it ratified the 1976 Protocol to the 1950 Agreement on the Importation of  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Materials.
21.10 Yet the United States, under a11 administrations, seems to have had a  hang-up about ratifying the 1954 Convention and Protocol for the Protection of  Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict. Can there be reluctance to  ratify and, as allied governments know, to have others ratify conventions which  Will limit the use of nuclear weapons, even the 1977 Red Cross Additional  Protocols? Has the United Kingdom been similarly inhibited? It took the Soviet  Union and France only three years to ratify both the 1954 instruments. One may  also ask why in December 1986 the United States alone voted against the United  Nations General Assembly's proclamation endorsing Unesco's proposals for the  World Decade for Cultural Development.
21.11 On communication, the United States is even more equivocal. In no  nation are authors, entrepreneurs and officiais more aware of the benefits of  standard-setting instruments - the system of regulation which Unesco has  sponsored in the field of communication. No nation has given such prompt and  whole-hearted support to Unesco's ten copyright and neighbouring rights  conventions. 1 applaud this support. We authors must stick together. It is in  the field of communication, however, that the United States has the strongest  love-hate relationship with Unesco. It spurns Unesco while embracing it. Some  authors, entrepreneurs and officiais continue to assert that Unesco aspires to  license journalists and to censor the press. They know how Unesco regulates the  field of communication. They should acknowledge that in four decades Unesco has  made no plans and spent not a cent to further the forms of regulation which they  denounce.
21.12 After Unesco received the report, Manv Voices, One World, from its  distinguished Commission chaired by Sean McBride, in honour of whom we stood in  silence on our opening day, the-General Conference established in 1980 the  Intergovernmental Council of the International Programme for the Development of  Communication (IPDC). The United States was a principal proponent of IPDC and  was elected to serve on the Council till 1985. Last December the United Nations  General Assembly's annual resolution on information and communication matters  was carried by 141 votes in favour and one against, with eleven abstentions. The  isolated vote was that of the United States. Among the abstentions was the  United Kingdom, which until 1986 had also voted against, but which in 1987 and
1988 moved from opposition to abstention. Singapore has always voted in favour.  Of the eleven States which for various reasons abstained, four do in fact  support IPDC and a fifth is this year contributing $4 million to a cognate  programme under Unesco auspices. The United States has never contributed to it.
21.13 The General Assembly's resolution expressly endorses IPDC. 1 shall  quote the last paragraph of it:  The General Assembly,  'Reaffirms the ongoing efforts of Unesco, which retains the central  role in the field of information, gradually to eliminate existing  imbalances, particularly with respect to the development of  infrastructures and production capacities, and to encourage a free flow  and wider and better-balanced dissemination of information with a view  to the establishment of a new world information and communication  order, seen as an evolving and continuous process, in accordance with  the relevant consensus resolutions of Unesco.'  Note the words, 'relevant consensus resolutions of Unesco'. The Board's  resolutions last year and this year were adopted by consensus.
21.14 On questions relating to culture and communication, Unesco is carrying  out the wishes, pursuing the concepts and using the words of General Assembly  resolutions. It is clear that, on these questions, the Reagan Administration was  often out of touch with world opinion. Whenever there was a vote concerning  Unesco in the General Assembly the United States was the only member out of  step. In 1983 the United States, disillusioned with the United Nations, gave  notice of withdrawal from Unesco, which was perceived to be the most vulnerable  of the Specialized Agencies. In the last year, however, the virtues of the
229    United Nations have been acknowledged around the world as a result of its  participation and presence in Iran and Iraq, Namibia, Afghanistan and Central  America. Nowhere have attitudes towards the United Nations changed more in the  last year than in the United States. The Conference must not allow the Board's  consensus, for which its members have a11 worked SO hard, to be disrupted or set  aside. We must strive to correct United States misconceptions and  misapprehensions; we need not pander to them. The United States cannot expect  Unesco to abandon the tasks entrusted to it by the United Nations. Unesco cannot  expect to win over the United States by letting down the United Nations.  Ultimately, the future of the Organization and the attitude that others adopt  towards it Will be determined by the value of our programmes to the world  community and the unity which we display to the world community.
21.15 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you may have discerned that 1 am  somewhat of a fanatic on the universality of Unesco's membership. 1 am also a  fanatic on the universality of Unesco's conventions. This Will be my second  theme. We should a11 read document 25 ClINF.6, the Memorandum on Unesco's  standard-setting activity. Just as it is six years since a State last joined  Unesco, it is also six years since a standard-setting instrument was last  adopted by Unesco. Since the last session there has been a considerable number  of ratifications of our existing conventions in a11 categories. The ten  copyright and neighbouring rights conventions, to which 1 have referred, have  attracted 23 further ratifications. Unesco's four cultural property conventions  have, since the last session, attracted a further 16 ratifications. The World  Heritage Convention requires a party to make a financial contribution in  addition to the contribution it makes to Unesco. That additional contribution  has been undertaken by 111 States, including, since our last session, the third  and fifth most populous countries in the world, the Soviet Union and Indonesia.  And Unesco's two environment conventions on wetlands have attracted 16 more  ratifications since the last session.
21.16 The General Conference is expected to adopt the draft Convention on  Technical and Vocational Education at the present session, following a draft  resolution moved at the twenty-fourth session by the Chairman of the Australian  National Commission. 1 commend to this session the concluding step for the  adoption of an international convention on the recognition of studies, diplomas  and degrees in higher education. 1 am particularly devoted to the idea of an  international convention because 1 was chairman to the international conference  which drew up the sixth and concluding Regional Convention at Bangkok in  December 1983. Members of Group IV Will, 1 know, remember my incessant lobbying  for them to ratify that instrument. It now has the necessary number of  ratifications to commence the work of the Regional Committee. As 1 gathered by  the end of August, it Will be meeting within three months. 1 expect there Will  be a lot more ratifications so that other States cari benefit from the  committee's work. It has always been an objective of the six regional  conventions - as anyone cari see from reading the preambles to them - that there  should be an international convention. We have not had an international  convention on education since 1960, the Convention against Discrimination in  Education, which has been ratified by 77 countries, although inexplicably, not  by the United States. But we cari draft this other convention, another  international convention on education, in International Literacy Year.
21.17 1 conclude my third and last speech in a general policy debate with two  instances of Unesco's creativity in fulfilling its mandates since the last  session. For Christmas, 1954, my wife gave me Julian Huxley's book From an  Antique Land: Ancient and Modern in the Middle East, inspired by his visit to  Beirut for our third session in 1948. (It takes Directors-General some time to  get their books together after they retire.) Huxleys's book gave a focus to some  of my early studies. TO it one cari perhaps trace my government's contributions  for the reconstruction of Borobodur and Moenjodaro and its early ratification of  the World Heritage Convention. The present Australian Government, especially its  first Foreign Minister, now the Governor-General of Australia, has been  frustrated for over six years in efforts to save the Angkor monuments. The  Director-General's plan of action for them gives us a11 an acceptable and  effective way to do SO. Our generation has done more than any previous  generation to harm the environment in which we a11 have to live. Our generation  has also done more than any preceding generation to preserve the cultural  heritage which we a11 share. It has done SO through Unesco.
21.18 Unesco's creativity is also exemplified by International Literacy Year.  Unesco has never been given a greater challenge or a greater opportunity than  the conquest of illiteracy throughout the world by the year 2000. In accepting  the role of lead organization from the United Nations, Unesco has also secured  the co-operation of other Specialized Agencies and intergovernmental  organizations. The Chairman of the Executive Board has invited their chief  executives to address the Board. The Director-General has conferred with them.
230    In consequence, the World Bank, UNDP and UNICEF have joined us in financing the  landmark conference in Thailand next March. The Executive Board has established  a mechanism for consultation with UNICEF, such as that which the World Health  Organization has enjoyed with UNICEF over the last ten years. The General  Conference is being asked to consider a possible convention on the status of  teachers in consultation with the International Labour Organisation. Unesco has  never sought or accepted as much multilateral co-operation as has been achieved  in the last two years in the lead up to the International Literacy Year.
21.19 This month the General Conference is drafting the Medium-Term Plan for
1990-1995, considering the Draft Programme and Budget for 1990-1991, and  preparing guidelines for the preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget for
1992-1993. We are charting the course which Unesco Will take till 16 November
1995, the golden anniversary of its birth. Our deliberations must ensure that on  that anniversary, in this city which SO brilliantly celebrates anniversaries,  the delegates of a11 the governments and peoples of the world Will be able to  acknowledge the contribution of this session to the advancement of the  objectives entrusted to us under our Constitution and by the United Nations. It  has been an honour and a joy, as a Permanent Delegate and then as a Board  member, to have been part of the process for over six years. Thank you,  Mr President.
22.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Whitlam, for your brilliant speech, an enlightening  speech. 1 am sure the General Conference fully appreciates the contribution you  have made not only to the General Conference itself and the Executive Board but  also to other organs and committees of Unesco.
22.2 The PRESIDENT:  The meeting is adjourned. We shall meet again at 10 o'clock tomorrow  morning.  La séance est levée à 18 h.40  The meeting rose at 6.40 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las la.40