Huitième séance plénière
20 octobre 1989, à 15 h 10  Prbsident : M. ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaisie)  puis : M. IVANCICH BIAGGINI (Italie)  Eighth plenary meeting
20 Cktober 1989 at 3.10 p.m.  President: Mr ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaysia)  later: Mr IVANCICH BIAGGINI (ItaIia)  Octava sesion plenaria
3aTeM: FH MBAHqklZI lGb5IXHHH (HT~JIBB)
277    ARRIERES DE CONTRIBUTIONS (Suite)  ARREARS IN CONTRIBUTIONS (continued)  CONTRIBUCIONES ATRASADAS (continuation)
1.1 The PRESIDENT.:  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, may 1 cal1 the meeting to order.  The Director-General has received a communication from the Government of Panama  invoking the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8(c), of the Constitution and  requesting that Panama be permitted to vote in accordance with those provisions.
1.2 If there are no objections, and 1 see that there are none, it is SO  decided.
1.3 The Director-General has also received a letter from the Government of  Paraguay, invoking the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8(c), of the  Constitution, requesting permission for Paraguay to vote in accordance with  those provisions.
1.4 There being no objections, it is SO decided.
1.5 The Government of Suriname has also written to the Director-General,  invoking the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8(c) of 'the Constitution and  requesting that Suriname be permitted to vote in accordance with those  provisions.
1.6 1 see no objection. It is SO decided.  RECOMMANDATION DU BUREAU CONCERNANT LA PRESIDENCE DE LA COMMISSION II  RECOMMENDATION BY THE GENERAL COMMITTEE CONCERNING THE CHAIRMANSHIP OF  COMMISSION II.  RECOMENDACION DE LA MESA RELATIVA A LA PRESIDENCIA DE LA COMISION II  PEKOMEI-IJJALJWI IIPE3klJ&WMA OTHOCkllWIbHO IIPEnCEQATEJIbCTBA B K0MIICClll-i II  -+;wI -‘Yul -L.&, $y +aI ++  PI~A+%ï=~~%Il%A~I~~~s!
2.1 The PRESIDENT:  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the General Committee held its  second meeting this morning. 1 have some announcements to make and some  recommendations to submit to you on its behalf. First of all, 1 have received a  letter from MS Lourdes Quisumbing of the Philippines, who has tendered her  resignation as Chairwoman of Commission II since her responsibilities oblige her  to return home.
2.2 The General Committee recommends that the Nominations Committee meet as  soon as possible to formulate a proposa1 to Commission II concerning a new  Chairman of Commission II and, pending the election of a new Chairman, that  Commission II should be presided over by the Vice-Chairmen, each in turn in  French alphabetical order in conformity with Rule 40 of the Rules of Procedure  of the General Conference. Do you agree with the recommendation by the General  Committee?
2.3 It is SO decided.
278    RECOMMANDATION DU BUREAU CONCERNANT LA PRISE DE DECISION SUR LES QUESTIONS  NE SEMBLANT PAS DEVOIR FAIRE L'OBJET D'UN DEBAT  RECOMMENDATION BY THE GENERAL COMMITTEE CONCERNING THE DECISIONS TO BE TAKEN  ON QUESTIONS THAT DO NOT APPEAR TO REQUIRE DEBATE  RECOMENDACION DE LA MESA RELATIVA A LA ADOPCION DE DECISIONES  SOBRE LOS ASUNTOS QUE NO PARECEN PRECISAR UN DEBATE  PEKOMEF&JJAI.J&U-i IIPE3klJJklYMA OTHOCIITEJIbHO IIPkïH5ITElfi PEIUEHklti l-I0 BOIIPOCAM, KOTOPbIE,  KAK FIPEflCl-ABJIXETCII, HE TPE6YIOT OFXYXJJEHH5I
3.1 The PRESIDENT:  The Director-General has received a letter from the Japanese delegation  requesting a debate on item 7.2 of the agenda of the General Conference. The  General Committee took note of this letter and submits it to the General  Conference for its information.
3.2 The Australian delegation has also written to the Secretary of the  General Conference requesting a debate in the Administrative Commission on items
10.1, 10.2 and 10.3 of the agenda of the General Conference. The General  Committee took note of this letter and submits it to the General Conference for  its information.
3.3 Since no other letters had been received by noon today requesting a  debate on those items of the agenda on which the General Conference might adopt  decisions without debate, in accordance with paragraph (26) of document 25 C/2,  we may consider that the decisions concerning items 6.5, 11.5 and 11.8 of the  agenda have been auuroved.  RECOMMANDATION DU BUREAU RELATIVE A LA DEMANDE D'INTERVENTION DE L'ASSOCIATION  DU PERSONNEL  RECOMMENDATION BY THE GENERAL COMMITTEE CONCERNING THE REQUEST TO  TAKE THE FLOOR SUBMITTED BY THE STAFF ASSOCIATION  RECOMENDACION DE LA MESA RELATIVA A LA SOLICITUD DE INTERVENCION  DE LA ASOCIACION DEL PERSONAL  PEKOMEFIIIAUMS lIPE3MI@WMA OTHOCMIEJIbHO lIPOCbBb1 ACCOUMAUMM IIEPCOHAJIA rIPEnO-  CTABMTbEfiCJIOBO
4.1 The PRESIDENT:  The President of the General Conference also received a letter from the  Unesco Staff Association asking to be allowed to take the floor during the  debate on items 3.1, 11.2, 11.3, 11.4, 11.5, 11.7 and 12.1.
4.2 The General Committee decided to recommend to the General Conference  that it allow the Unesco Staff Association to take the floor during the debate  in the Administrative Commission on items 11.2, 11.3, 11.4, 11.5, 11.7 and
12.1. This applies to a11 the Organization's staff associations. The Executive  Board has taken a similar decision and has set a precedent in this connection.  May 1 assume that you agree?
4.3 It is SO decided.
279    TROISIEME RAPPORT SUPPLEMENTAIRE DE LA PRESIDENTE DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION  DES POWOIRS  THIRD SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT BY THE CHAIRWOMAN OF THE CREDENTIALSCOMMITTEE,  TERCER INFORME SUPLEMENTARIO DE LA PRESIDENTE DEL COMITE DE  VERIFICACION DE PODERES
5. The PRESIDENT:  The Chairwoman of the Credentials Committee has informed us that she  has a supplementary report to submit to the General Conference. You have the  floor, MS Lerner de Almea.
(6.1) MS LERNA DE ALTEA (Venezuela), Chairwoman of the Credentials Committee  (Translation from the Spanish):  Thanlz you, Mr President, 1 shall now make the third supplementary report of  the Credentials Committee.
(6.2) After the second supplementary report of the Credentials Committee read out  in plenary on 19 October at 3 p.m., credentials in due form were received from the  Central African Republic, Madagascar and Somalia,  provisional credentials.  which had previously submitted  Credentials  In accordance with the authorization given to me by the  Committee, 1 propose that the General these  credentials.  Conference accept  Republic,  Provisional credentials have been submitted by Ecuador, the Dominican  Luxembourg, Paraguay and Romania. 1 propose  credentials be accepted,  that these provisional  subject to later presentation of credentials in due for-m,  and that meanwhile the delegations of those countries be allowed to take part in the  work of the present session of the General Conference.  have to say for the moment. Thank you.  That, Mr President is a11 1
7.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the Chairwoman of the Credentials Committee. May 1 take it that  the General Conference agrees to take note of the third supplementary report by  the Chairwoman of the Credentials Committee?
7.2 It is SO decided.  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuation)  OSC~EHMEBOUPOCOBOBIIJEjlUOJIMTMKM(UPO~OJDKEHME)  (&) -LUI -L&+Jr -aLo  aLRl% ( % 1
8. The PRESIDENT:  We shall now proceed with the list of speakers for this afternoon. SO  far speakers have abided by the time-limit that we have set and 1 would like to  thank them and appeal to this afternoon's speakers to follow their example SO  that we cari finish our business on time. 1 cal1 upon H.E. the Honourable Loku  Bandara, Minister of Education, Cultural Affairs and Information and head of the  delegation of Sri Lanka.
9.1 Mr LOKU BANDARA (Sri Lanka):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, your Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, 1 bring you greetings and best wishes from His Excellency, President  Ranasinghe Premadasa and the Government of Sri Lanka for a successful session.  It is President Premadasa's fervent wish that the deliberations of this august  assembly Will add meaningfully and substantially to the efforts made by  humanity, through diverse expressions of solidarity, to ensure lasting world  peace based on shared prosperity and founded on mutual respect for and  appreciation of sovereignty, cultural identity and rights and freedoms of  nations and individuals. On his behalf, let me reaffirm our unreserved support  for Unesco in its uphill task of creating a new world free from fear and  prejudice and without barriers emanating from race, religion, language or  culture. President Premadasa has requested me, in particular, to convey to you  his deep conviction that every problem in human society, however complex or  difficult, cari only be solved through consultation, compromise and consensus.  It is his desire that this assembly too Will proceed to solve the many issues  under discussion in such a spirit of give and take, and that the world Will be  richer for the love and affection, understanding and respect which each  delegate, in the name of his or her nation, Will demonstrate towards the others.
9.2 Mr President, allow me to congratulate you on your election as the  President of this General Conference. As a fellow Asian, it gives me enormous  pleasure to wish you every success on this momentous occasion, when the Asia and  the Pacifie region has provided this august body with a President after an  inordinately long interval of 17 years. Your election to this position of great  honour and responsibility signifies the recognition not only of your persona1  qualities of head and heart which make you an eminent leader, but also of the  admirable role which your motherland, Malaysia, has played in the comity of  nations. Mr President, your election is also a tribute to youth and an  expression of confidence and hope in the emerging youthful leadership of the  world. 1 have no doubt that, under your able direction, this General Conference  Will go down in history as a landmark in the progressive evolution of Unesco.
9.3 Mr Director-General, may 1 take this opportunity to congratulate you on  the successful completion of your first biennium of service as  Director-General. You too are an embodiment of our faith and hope in Young  leadership in the intellectual domain. Even a cursory appraisal of your  achievements during the last two years should convince anyone that the  confidence that the nations of the world placed in you two years ago has been  amply justified. You inherited an Organization with enormous problems. It has  indeed been a Herculean task to accomplish a11 that was expected of you. It is  possible that in some areas our expectations were not altogether realistic. But  even there you have valiantly tried to do your very best and no one has the  right to ask of anyone anything more than his or her very best. Knowing the  built-in constraints of the United Nations system, we cannot but appreciate your  spectacular success in effecting savings, streamlining the top management and  developing a workable framework for further reform. We have watched with very  great interest your unceasing efforts to mend fentes, win back lost friends,  allay fears and suspicions, and restore Unesco's image as the conscience of  humanity. Mr Director-General, in this very significant public relations  effort, in which your achievements are substantial, you have not failed to  provide the intellectual and technical direction which is indispensable for the  unusually difficult task that you undertook. Without your dedication and your  capacity, we would not have had the most refreshing and rewarding experience of  engaging, as a broad-based world community, in the evolution of the Draft  Medium-Term Plan and the Programme and Budget for its first biennium at one and  the same time. Your receptivity to new ideas, as well as your amenable  flexibility and your readiness to go back to the drawing-board as often as your  own commitment to perfection demanded, are rare qualities which enabled you to  reflect in these documents our virtually unanimous concerns and priorities.
9.4 Mr President, distinguished colleagues, with these preliminary remarks,  we wish to place before you our general observations on the two major documents  we have before us for deliberation: namely, document 25 C/4 - the Draft  Medium-Term Plan for 1990-1995; and document 25 C/5 - the Draft Programme and  Budget for 1990-1991. Detailed remarks on specific items Will be made by my  colleagues in the relevant commissions.
9.5 Coming from a developing country which looks to Unesco for continuing  support in the difficult tasks of revamping national education, improving access  to the benefits accruing from the advancement of science and technology, and  Preserving the national cultural heritage, while promoting cultural development,  we are indeed more than satisfied with the lines of emphasis and the evolution  of the major programme areas in the two documents. We feel that in  concentrating Unesco's programme actions into seven programme areas instead of  the previous 14 and, consequently, making the budget envelopes in each area
281    larger and hence more amenable to interna1 adjustment to tope with changing  demands, Unesco has taken a step in the right direction. It is our hope that,  progressively, as the Secretariat reorganizes itself around these major  programme areas, much of the less important activities Will either be dropped or  be appropriately absorbed into others. In other words, the emphasis on  programme concentration has to be a continuing one if we are to achieve the  Director-General's self-imposed objective of 'Doing less in order to do  better'. It is with this end in view that we also clive Our fullest Support to  the proposed programme for the improvement of management information services.  We recognize that Unesco is in need of significant management reform.
9.6 We have subjected to a very careful analysis the reconunendations of the  Executive Board on the Draft Medium-Term Plan and the subsequent modifications  which the Direct-or-General has proposed in the Annexes and draft resolutions.  Speaking on behalf of a Member State represented on the Executive Board, 1 am  pleased to acknowledge that the outcome of our collective effort is extremely  satisfying. 1 am particularly happy that the final version placed before us for  approval is a marked improvement, and my comment is specially applicable to the  few very significant modifications which the Director-General has now  suggested. We shall limit our observations to one subject alOne.
9.7 As Major Programme Area IV on 'Communication in the service of  humanity' is the centrepiece of an ongoing controversy, especially in the  Western media, let us begin with our comments on it. We are conscious that the  Director-General was confronted with an exceedingly difficult task in  remodelling a programme on which diverse positions have been taken both within  and outside Unesco. We in Sri Lanka do not, however, see the reason for the  major part of the controversy. Possibly on account of our deep dedication to  the teachings of the Buddha, we expect everything to evolve, to change and to  continue in a state of permanent flux. We have no difficulty in agreeing with  Lord Tennyson that 'The old order changeth, yielding place to new', even though  our pragmatism has taught us to go along with Alexander Pope and 'Be not the  first by whom the new are tried, nor yet the last to lay the old aside'. Every  order, whether in the social, economic or communication field, is bound to  change continuallv and a new order Will always replace the old.
9.8 In the field of communication, we are pleased that the action plan as  elaborated in both document 25 C/4 and document 25 C/5 gives adequate attention  to the real needs of the developing world. We want to be informed and, at the  same time, to inform the world about ourselves. We lack the technology, the  equipment and the trained personnel. We are indeed beholden to those countries  who have generously helped the developing world through the International  Programme for the Development of Communication. It is our earnest request to  the international community to iron out whatever differences they have in their  outlook on communication and utilize the admirable framework that the proposed  resolution provides to build a new approach for the benefit of humanity as a  whole.
9.9 Mr President, before proceeding to a number of specific aspects of Sri  Lanka's co-operation with Unesco, permit me to share with you some thoughts on  the forthcoming World Conference on Education for All. We heartily welcome the  constructive and innovative initiative of Unesco, UNICEF, UNDP and the World  Bank to hold this conference in Thailand. We are particularly pleased that Dr  Ananda Guruge, a Sri Lankan educationist of international renown, is associated  with it as a member of its steering group. We are confident that it Will be a  very successful conference. However, what we are most anxious to ensure is that  the follow-up to the conference is given due thought as of now. We expect that  Unesco Will assume its recognized leadership in the follow-up to this most  prestigious conference. Firstly, it is the international mandate of Unesco to  reflect the views and aspirations of Member States and respond to their needs in  the field of education through research, training and the implementation of  educational strategies. Secondly, Unesco already possesses the requisite  infrastructure in the form of its established Regional Offices; institutions  such as the International Bureau of Education, the International Institute for  Educational Planning and the Unesco Institute for Education: and in  intergovernmental programmes, innovative networks and operational projects. It  is urged that the four co-operating agencies concentrate their efforts on  reinforcing this existing infrastructure.
9.10 Mr President, developing societies like ours are confronted with  situations which imperil the very stability of society. Freedom, with its  implication that a11 persons should enjoy the right and the liberty to pursue  development of their personality and realize their full potential, requires not  merely an education system that caters to their needs and aspirations but also a  high rate of economic growth in order to improve the quality of life. The  vision of one great man, exactly half a Century ago, gave Sri Lanka a tremendous
282    educational advantage. 1 refer to the late Dr C.W.W. Kannangara who, in 1942,  as Minister of Education, brought about a far-reaching educational revolution  through free education, building prestigious high schools in remote villages and  bringing the benefits of education to the doorstep of every Child in the  country. 1 am myself a grateful beneficiary of his policy. As our national  efforts developed, Unesco has been in the forefront, providing us with technical  assistance and mobilizing for us much-needed resources.
9.11 The iatest among our priorities on the national agenda is the Poverty  Alleviation Programme, a scheme carefully designed and developed to assist a11  the poverty-stricken and marginalized groups, to relieve them of their  deprivation and to generate self-help. This is a programme based on  participatory action aimed at sustainable growth through the development of  human resources. This unorthodox and bold programme, which we cal1 'Janasaviya'  or 'People's Strength', is intended to make the weak and the poor strong and  capable. This is another new vision that has fired the imagination of a11 whose  concern is development in Sri Lanka and, to my great satisfaction, 1 find it has  consonance with a theme that Unesco has outlined to be followed in the near  future in the field of human resource development. We look forward to growing  co-operation with Unesco in the implementation of the Janasaviya Programme.
9.12 Mr President, Sri.Lanka has also benefited from Unesco's initiatives in  restoring the cultural heritage. International support and assistance, extended  to make the Cultural Triangle Project a success, has enabled Sri Lanka to embark  on archaeological excavations in some of her historical and ruined cities with a  history dating back to the sixth Century B.C. These excavations have led to the  discovery of valuable monuments and artefacts of exquisite cultural value. We  are hopeful that with the continued support of Unesco, the six projects of the  Cultural Triangle Will be successfully completed.
9.13 Equally important results have been achieved in our co-operation with  Unesco in other fields of competence, particularly science and technology, radio  and television, library services and book promotion. There are significant  activities in each of these areas.
9.14 Despite enormous resource constraints, Sri Lanka has recently embarked  on two very important initiatives with a view to accelerating its educational  development. A nationwide school midday meal programme is being implemented at  an annual cost of 2,000 million rupees (that is, nearly US $70 million). An  ambitious programme has also been set in motion to overcome the nagging problem  of staff shortages, especially in rural schools. Not only are as many as 46,000  teachers being recruited, mainly from within each school community itself, but  arrangements are being made to have each one of them trained. We are conscious  that no quantitative expansion should take place at the expense of quality. We  expect Unesco to help us in these two endeavours both by mobilizing  international financial and material support and by providing us with expertise  and facilities to improve our national capacity.
9.15 Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, allow me to conclude with a reference to a matter which is foremost  in my mind: What brings us together here is our collective and individual  commitment to higher values of life - our commitment to the ethical role of the  international community to make this world a safer, better, healthier and more  satisfying place for humanity as a whole, including generations yet unborn. This  role encompasses many areas of action: firstly, eradication of poverty and a11  its attendant evils such as illiteracy, ignorance, hunger, malnutrition, disease  and social inequalities; secondly, conservation of the environment, which  implies prudent utilization of the scarce and irreplaceable natural resources of  the planet; and last but not least, peace not only in the sense of absence of  war but in the true meaning of loving-kindness, compassion, sympathetic  rejoicing in others' happiness, and equanimity.
9.16 Peace has to be built in the minds of people, as the Buddha himself  emphasized two thousand five hundred years ago. The first two verses of the  Dhammapada - a short but invaluable book - are: 'Manopubbangama dhamma  Manosettha manomaya' which means 'Everything and every action are preceded by  the mind; they have the mind as the foremost and are mind-made'. Thus not only  wars, but everything that cari remove wars and contribute to the lasting  prosperity and hope of humankind, also originate in the mind.
9.17 Every religion in its own way seeks to develop the mind, to motivate  its wholesome functioning and to remove the taints of greed and hatred, envy and  jealousy, indifference and ignorance. My delegation has urged in a draft  resolution that Unesco should explore ways in which religion could be mobilized  into service in the Organization's activities at this crucial juncture,
283    especially in the field of education. We maintain that a11 religions have a  fundamental role in fashioning ethical values. 1 urge you to support our appeal,  for you would thus be doing a great service to humanity.
9.18 May this Conference be another landmark in our staunch endeavours to  make Unesco a truly representative and effective voice that Will give expression  to the loftiest thoughts and the innermost aspirations of a11 humankind. 1 thank  you for your kind attention.
10. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Sri Lanka and 1 cal1 on  H.E. Dr Alois Mock, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs and head of the  delegation of Austria.
11.1 M. MOCK (Autriche) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Mes-  sieurs les délégués, permettez-moi tout d'abord, Monsieur le Président, de vous  présenter mes félicitations pour votre élection à la tête de cette Conférence.  Je suis convaincu que votre savoir et votre expérience nous permettront de sur-  monter les moments parfois difficiles d'une telle réunion.
11.2 Permettez-moi également, Mesdames et Messieurs, de constater que, depuis  la dernière session de la Conférence générale, 1'Unesco s'est engagée dans une  série de réformes nécessaires dont les effets se manifestent dans la restructu-  ration des organes ainsi que dans le Programme et budget. Je remercie donc le  Directeur général, M. Federico Mayor, de tous les efforts qu'il a déployés et va  déployer pour guider 1'Unesco sur une voie où elle pourra développer au maximum  ses forces et ses moyens tout en restant fidèle à son mandat et à ses objectifs.  Beaucoup reste à faire. L'Autriche est convaincue que,  Monsieur le Directeur général,  grâce à votre engagement  sa noble mission.
1'Unesco retrouvera l'immense prestige attaché 6  Dans cet esprit, je peux vous assurer du soutien ferme de  l'Autriche pour toutes les mesures énergiques que vous allez prendre dans le  cadre de ces réformes.
11.3 L'Autriche a toujours soutenu le principe de l'universalité du système  des Nations Unies. C'est pourquoi nous souhaitons que,  déjà entreprises et de celles restant à réaliser,  compte tenu des réformes  les Etats-Unis ainsi que le  Royaume-Uni et Singapour reprennent leur place au sein de l'Organisation.
11.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi de vous dire que l'Autriche  approuve, dans leur ensemble, le Projet de plan à moyen terme et le Projet de  programme et de budget pour 1990-1991. En ce qui concerne les détails de ces  projets, la délégation autrichienne fera connaître ses vues dans les commissions.
11.5 Quant à moi, je voudrais d'abord attirer votre attention sur deux évé-  nements importants qui auront lieu en Autriche, respectivement en 1991 et en
1995, à savoir la célébration du bicentenaire de la mort de W.A. Mozart et l'ex-  position universelle Vienne-Budapest. Ces événements mettent tous les deux en  vedette les idées fondamentales de la liberté individuelle et du rapprochement  des peuples, dont la réalisation reflète et exige un esprit d'ouverture et de  tolérance très large.
11.6 En 1991, l'Autriche et le monde entier célébreront le bicentenaire de  la mort de Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Son génie cosmopolite et l'harmonie de sa  musique nous rappellent l'atmosphère du siècle des lumières et de la liberté  d'où émergea l'idée fondamentale des droits de l'homme, qui a pris aujourd'hui  une dimension universelle. Dès son enfance, le talent exceptionnel de Mozart  l'avait conduit du cercle restreint de sa ville natale dans les capitales,  Vienne, Paris, Londres, et en Italie. Les voyages de Mozart témoignent d'un  intérêt particulier pour d'autres peuples et d'autres cultures. Il rechercha ces  contacts non seulement pour présenter ses oeuvres mais aussi pour bénéficier de  ces rencontres en tant qu'artiste et créateur.  diverses,  Ouvert aux influences les plus  il nous a légué un héritage artistique qui appartient au monde entier  et constitue une source de joie pour tous les peuples. Son style de vie cosmopo-  lite - il se félicita en effet de quitter une position professionnelle fixe et  permanente - et les idées politiques contenues dans quelques-unes de ses oeuvres  - je pense surtout au "Mariage de Figaro" de Beaumarchais, qui servit de modèle  à l'opéra "Les noces de Figaro" - font de Mozart le représentant de l'idée de  liberté individuelle, bien qu'il ne fût pas lui-même un acteur politique au sens  strict du terme. Cette idée de liberté individuelle trouva principalement son  expression, à l'époque de Mozart, dans l'évolution politique en Amérique du Nord  et en France. Il convient donc de mettre l'année 1991 sous le signe de Mozart et  je me félicite que 1'Unesco envisage de participer à cette commémoration.
11.7 En ce moment même, les idées de liberté individuelle et d'autodétermi-  nation des peuples se voient renforcées par les processus de réforme en cours  dans bon nombre de pays de l'Europe de l'Est.
11.8 Je voudrais également mentionner le projet d'une exposition universelle  qui sera organisée conjointement par la Hongrie et l'Autriche en 1995. Cet evé-  nement s'inscrit dans le contexte de l'enlacement des cultures dans la région  danubienne, dont les liens ont été rompus arbitrairement au cours des conflits  du XXe siècle, mais qui prennent un nouvel essor grâce aux réformes substan-  tielles et profondes et aux mesures d'ouverture auxquelles nous assistons depuis  un certain temps. Une fois de plus, nous constatons que la dynamique de l'his-  toire dépend de l'homme, de sa vocation à la liberté et à la responsabilité. La  répression et l'intolérance sont vouées à l'échec, même si des forces importantes  s'opposent à cette évolution.
11.9 En ce qui concerne la situation intellectuelle dans laquelle se trouve  l'humanité de nos jours, je voudrais formuler quelques considérations d'ordre  général. La science a été longtemps considérée comme le garant du progrès de  l'homme. C'est du siècle des lumières que nous vient l'idée que le savoir, par  le simple fait de son accumulation, entraînerait inévitablement le progrès  humain. Nombre d'Etats et d'invidus avaient lié le progrès de l'humanité entière  au progrès des sciences.
11.10 Pourtant, au cours des dernières décennies, nous avons connu une grande  déception. NOUS avons vu s'élargir l'écart entre l'homme et le progrès SCienti-  fique et ce dernier risque de devenir une valeur en soi, qui ne respecte plus la  vie humaine, la dignité humaine et la nature. L'homme perd très souvent le  contrôle du progrès scientifique et technique.
11.11 Malgré des avantages tout à fait évidents, cette évolution du monde  technologique comporte un danger grave : le risque de perte de notre identité.  Une rationalité est en train de naître qui ne sait que peser et mesurer l'action,  qui standardise tous les domaines de la vie et qui constitue un défi sérieux a  notre individualité et à toute structure humaine.
11.12 La catastrophe nucléaire de Tchernobyl, les désastres chimiques de  Bhopal, Seveso et Bâle, l'exploitation démesurée de la forêt vierge, les eaux  polluées, la destruction de la couche d'ozone justifient l'inquiétude qui S'est  substituée à notre confiance dans le progrès. Evidemment, nous devrons éviter  des positions extrêmes. Il ne faut pas négliger les bienfaits apportés par le  progrès technologique. Je pense à la médecine, aux communications et aux exploits  dans d'autres domaines, qui facilitent à leur tour le progrès économique, social  et culturel.
11.13 Les sciences et la technologie sont un domaine important du travail de
1'Unesco. Faut-il faire demi-tour ? Faut-il arrêter les processus engagés et  auxquels tant de peuples sont malgré tout attachés dans l'espoir d'un avenir  meilleur ? Un tel arrêt serait erroné et impossible : impossible parce que l'es-  prit de l'homme, cet esprit toujours à la recherche d'un monde meilleur, ne se  laisse pas enfermer.
11.14 Il nous faut d'autres perspectives. Il faut tout simplement se souvenir  de la dimension humaine et savoir que la conscience de l'homme, son éthique per-  sonnelle doivent maîtriser les possibilités et les chances que nous offrent la  science et la technologie. Toute recherche, toute réalisation qui ne respecte  pas cette dimension est vouée à l'échec. Il se pourrait que, dans un premier  temps, les acquis d'un progrès effréné nous permettent de maîtriser plus facile-  ment notre existence. Mais nous nous apercevrons très vite que nous ne sommes  pas en mesure de contrôler les dangers qu'entraîne un progrès qui fait abstrac-  tion de l'homme et de sa conscience personnelle.
11.15 Les sciences ont besoin d'une éthique nouvelle. Cette éthique nouvelle  inclut aussi le droit de participer au progrès scientifique, car nous savons  qu'une grande partie du monde en est exclue. L'écart entre les pays industria-  lisés et riches et ceux qui se battent pour survivre est tel qu'il ne pourra  jamais être réduit sans l'aide des sciences et de la technologie. Je partage  l'avis du pape Paul VI qui disait que le développement ne représente rien d'autre  que la paix, que le développement est le nom nouveau - et j'ajoute le contenu  nouveau - de la paix.
11.16 Mesdames et Messieurs, dans un certain nombre de sociétés on observe  même des attitudes de rejet par rapport à la plupart des phénomènes de la vie  moderne. Le fait se produit surtout là où la rationalité dans la recherche  scientifique et l'esprit de rendement vont radicalement à l'encontre des tradi-  tions établies et des besoins affectifs de l'homme. La réponse à ces contradic-  tions se trouve peut-être dans l'octroi d'un plus grand rôle aux cultures  régionales.
11.17 Dans la culture régionale, l'individu reconnaît directement ses ori-  gines, découvre son authenticité pour parer le défi que nous pose le monde mo-  derne. L'encouragement et la sauvegarde des cultures régionales doivent donc être  une tâche toute particulière de 1'Unesco. C'est peut-être aussi une chance pour  les pays qui sont défavorisés sur le plan technologique. Ils possèdent tous une  culture originale dont les valeurs peuvent servir a préserver la dimension  humaine dans la vie moderne. En effet les changements que connaissent bon nombre  de pays sont souvent brusques et leurs cultures risquent de perdre leurs racines.  Il faut donc porter une attention toute particulière à leur sauvegarde et à  l'adaptation progressive de la vie culturelle des régions aux exigences de notre  temps.
11.18 A cet égard je me souviens d'une autre remarque de Paul VI : "Le conflit  entre les générations devient un dilemme tragique : ou nous gardons les habitudes  et convictions de nos pères et renonçons au progrès, ou nous nous ouvrons à la  technologie et à la civilisation venant de l'extérieur et renonçons à la tradi-  tion, avec toute sa richesse humaine."
11.19 Cette ouverture vers les cultures régionales nous amène au troisième  grand objectif de 1'Unesco : l'éducation. L'homme prend conscience de ses ori-  gines culturelles à travers une formation adéquate. Le progrès technologique et  la modernisation ne dévalorisent pas les contenus de l'éducation traditionnelle.  Bien au contraire. Dans le processus de démocratisation continu de nos sociétés,  ces valeurs traditionnelles contribuent à préserver la dimension humaine. La  Décennie mondiale du développement culturel, proclamée par 1'Unesco en 1988,  devrait s'inspirer de la nécessité de maintenir l'équilibre entre les valeurs de  l'éducation traditionnelle et les exigences du progrès économique et social.  L'Autriche accorde une importance particulière aux initiatives qui Sont Prises  dans le cadre de cette Décennie.
11.20 Cette action en faveur des cultures régionales me semble devoir COmplé-  ter les efforts que 1'Unesco déploie dans le domaine de l'alphabétisation. Les  mesures visant à éliminer l'analphabétisme sont particulièrement appréciées par  l'Autriche.
11.21 L'éducation en tant que telle est beaucoup plus que le transfert pur et  simple du savoir. Elle doit en outre contribuer à la formation de l'homme, d'un  homme responsable envers les autres individus et solidaire avec eux. L'éducation  au sens large du terme est inimaginable sans l'information et sans tenir compte  du rôle de la communication. Dans ce contexte, je veux souligner l'importance  que l'Autriche accorde à la liberté de la presse et au libre échange de  l'information.
11.22 Assurer l'éducation pour tous implique que nous sauvegardions en même  temps la diversité des cultures dans le monde. La sagesse que nous lèguent les  différents patrimoines nous permettra probablement de retrouver la juste mesure  dans les sciences et le progrès technologique. Ainsi, notre génération contri-  buera elle aussi à la dignité humaine, à la paix et à la qualité de la vie.  Merci, Monsieur le Président.
12. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Austria and 1 have pleasure in  inviting H.E. Dr Armando Hart Davalos, Minister of Culture and head of the  delegation of Cuba to take the floor.
(13.1) Mr HART DAVALOS (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished representatives of Member  States, ladies and gentlemen, 1 congratulate Mr Anwar Ibrahim on bis election aild 1  should like to assure him that he may rely on my delegation's fullest support. We  wish to convey special greetings to our friend, Mr Federico Mayor, who much honoured  and encouraged us this year when he paid a most welcome visit to Cuba.  Mr Director-General, we support the third Medium-Term Plan which was SO thoroughly  studied in the Executive Board and which Member States helped to prepare.
(13.2) Mr President, by a happy coincidence, 1 am making this speech on the very  day that my country is celebrating its National Day of Culture. May 1 therefore  touch on a few historic events as an introduction to the topics before us. On
10 October 1868 the father of Cuba, Carlos Manuel de Céspedes, freed his slaves,  embraced them as brothers, and embarked in the company of the exploited masses on an  epic campaign of unremitting warfare, which was to last for three decades, in the  cause of independence. Ten days later, on 20 October, the patriotic troops took the
8  city of Bayamo; and for the first time in public, they sang what was later to become  Cuba*s national anthem. The Revolution proclaimed that day the National Day of  Culture. This armed struggle, Mr President, was sustained by a great cultural and  ideological movement in which, from the end of the eighteenth Century onwards, the  cultural, political and revolutionary ideals of our society were firmly woven  together into a single fabric. In this achievement the specifically Cuban school of  thought , guided by scientific and democratic ideas, played a leading role. The need  for radical social and political change - the abolition of slavery and the  independence of the country, which was struggling for freedom from Spain and the  United States - combined with a markedly Latin American and universal outlook,  played a very active part in Cuban culture from the very beginning and throughout  its subsequent development. Intellectual aspirations, literary and artistic works,  the development of science and research, and a commitment to education were marked  at a11 times by the most progressive contemporary political and social ideas; this  in turn enriched the country’s spiritual and moral life, in other words the national  Cuban culture, ‘Cubania’.
(13.3) The country’s greatest political and revolutionary figure, José Marti, was  the foremost exponent of oui intellectual movement. In the history of Cuba, there  has been no divorce between social and political thinking on the one hand, and  culture on the other. Patriotism, Latin Americanism and universality are not  regarded as in any way incompatible. This truth finds lapidary expression in the  inspired words of José Marti: ‘One’s country is the human race’.
(13.4) In the twentieth Century Marti’s anti-imperialistic ideas nourished the  growth of a deep-rooted culture of resistance to what he called the hegemony of the  ‘turbulent and bullying North which despises us’. The political culture of Cuba has  always been essentially inimical to the growth of any narrow nationalism which would  have hampered the development of a socialist conscience; and the triumphant  revolution took over no conservative-based culture. We are heirs to a culture of  active resistance to imperialism, together with a reaffirmation of patriotic, Latin  American and universal values. For this reason, the campaign by the enemies of the  Revolution cari be based only on North American interests and on the moral corruption  and laxity that they are trying to promote in our society.
(13.5) Ladies and gentlemen, 44 years ago, when the United Nations system and  Unesco were founded, the main capitalist powers of the world had a decisive voting  influence. A group of countries which had set out on the path to socialism was  isolated and lacking in influence. Later, the colonial system collapsed and  neo-colonialism began to disintegrate. This was one of the most important events  during the last 45 years, leading to the establishment of powerful international  institutions such as the Movement of the Non-Aligned Countries and the Group of 77.  It was this change in the correlation of political forces which brought about the  highly anti-democratic withdrawal from Unesco of the United States, the United  Kingdom and Singapore, and their introduction of a11 kinds of pressure against the  United Nations system. It is the desire of us a11 that these States should return to  the world’s main cultural forum; there is a strong cultural, scientific and  educational movement in these countries, and it is absurd that it should not be  represented here in any form. But their re-entry must be based on the principles  laid down by Unesco and, above all, the principle of equality of the rights of  States. Otherwise, it would be meaningless and might even affect the prestige of the  Organisation and of the system as a whole.
(13.6) If we are to ensure greater stability in international relations, let us  strengthen and respect the legal and political institutions that gave birth to the  United Nations, Unesco and other similar organizations. It is a fact of life that  the solution of major controversies calls for the broadest possible international  participation, and cannot be confined to mere talks between different powers. The  true gauge of a democratic outlook is the attitude adopted on this important issue.
(13.7) Distinguished delegates, the absolute or near-absolute ownership of the  mass media by transnational corporations has made it possible for them to exert  influence by means of propaganda and by moulding public opinion, thus limiting the  ability of peoples to judge problems for themselves. We must protect our national  cultures from this invasion, which takes the form of pseudo-cultural, demagogical  and pornographie messages, and an incitement to crime. This pseudo-cultural invasion  is rotten to the tore; it corrupts customs and destroys the best spiritual and moral  traditions of humanity.
(13.8) In Cuba’s case, the problem has reached the stage of an attempt at direct  aggression and new forms of subversion and destabilisation waged against our  country. The plan to beam a television programme from Florida, organized and  approved by the last two United States administrations, is precisely such an  attempt. This plan violates international laws signed in Geneva by the United States  itself, and betokens an escalation in aggression to which we alert the community of  nations represented in Unesco; we let it be known that Cuba Will not stand idly by  and accept such a violation.
(13.9) Let me give you an example of the conflict between information and  propaganda on the one hand, and the real situation on the other. Campaigns of  disinformation and silence on the subject of Cuba have rarely been on a greater  scale in Europe and other continents than at present.' That notwithstanding, we have  just secured 146 of the 156 votes possible in the United Nations for election to the  Security Council. What does that go to show ? That the monopoly of the press does not  accurately reflect the political and cultural realities of the present-day world.  Why do press barons, the lords of free and democratic communicaion, who talk SO much  about objective truth, deny publicity to this cogent fact ? Why does Cuba have a seat  on the Security Council? What is the explanation given by these lordly torch-bearers  of communication and information in the co-called 'Western world'? It is quite  possible that these questions Will remain unanswered. It is also possible that my  words Will not go beyond the walls of this great assembly. This suffices for Cuba,  and Cuba is honoured thereby. It is obvious that much work lies ahead if the  international press is to reflect the real political situation that exists in the  United Nations, Unesco and the other agencies of the United Nations system.
(13.10) Distinguished delegates, the first meeting of Ministers of Culture of Latin  America and the Caribbean took place recently in Brasilia. Unesco has received  detailed information on that meeting. 1 should merely like to stress here that we  appreciate the enormous interest shown by the countries of the region in promoting  widely-varying cultural programmes of a regional character, with assistance from  Unesco. If these efforts receive support from the Organization, its presence Will  soon make itself felt more strongly in the region. We cherish the hope that the  Brazilia meeting Will serve as an experiment on a broader international scale. For  the present, that meeting agreed to constitute a permanent forum of ministers of  culture of our region, to prepare a charter affirming Latin American culture and to  develop various other initiatives. It also agreed to convene a second meeting in  Mexico, in order to improve joint CO-ordination of efforts. In Brazil, the Ministers  of Culture of Bolivarian America set aside any eventual ideological or political  differences; we unanimously believe in the component parts of the identity and  culture which are ours and which cari unite us. These go back in time to more than
500 years ago. A much more ancient history goes back to the time when the first  settlers of America reached the continent. It is a history which for the last
500 years has been building up a culture of resistance to oppression and to the  hegemonic aims of foreign powers. From the time when the aboriginal peoples of  America were forced to resist the cruelty of the conquistadors, right up to the  present day, the peoples of the continent have withstood and fought against the  overwhelming force of those who sought to dominate them. This has continually  strengthened spiritual and moral ties and brought our countries culturally closer.  Our patriotism has been anti-imperialist in nature, and looks forward to the union  of our nations. The end we seek is the moral republic of America of which our  ancestors dreamed; the creation by cultural, spiritual and political means, of the  unity of the continent which was the dream of Simon Bolivar.
(13.11) In our America, culture is no obstacle to the international ideal. It would  be difficult to find a group of countries that share more elements of identity,  union and culture. This group of countries has an identity which is universal  synthesis of spiritual values rooted not in rivalry but in union; it aspires not to  deny the freedom of others but to affirm the right of each people and each human  being to exercise individual liberty. The culture of our America is based on  spiritual and moral value, a heroic outlook on life, a Utopia that cari become  reality. And this element of spirituality is a basic asset in facing the present and  future problems of the world. This spiritual value, this heroic outlook on life,  this aspiration to a mode1 of conduct based on solidarity, co-operation and  brotherhood among men, are a11 to be found in the essence of Latin American and  Caribbean culture; they have been a vital driving-force in our battles, our  struggles, our ideas and our work. These aspirations are founded on respect for the  full dignity of human beings, not for a few individuals nor for a small group of  nations but for each and every human being and for each and every nation. Our  humanism is not limited by group interests, but is truly universal.
(13.12) In Brazil, Cuba stressed that a widespread materialism which was a feature  of contemporary civilizations had imposed itself on the culture of the most  materially advanced countries, and that combined with self-centred cultural elements  it had passed on its harmful influence to different regions of the world. Future  sociologists, historians and philosophers may investigate and discover the root  causes of this tragedy; but there is no doubt that civilized humanity in the  twentieth Century has chosen to be burdened and blinkered by a gross materialism  devoid of the creative, innovative and transforming spirit which is the essential  virtue of humankind. No political system has been free from the influence of this  gross materialism, with its emphasis on economics, development and technocratie  thought, a11 of which have made impossible a full understanding of the cultural  values embodied in the social vocation and nature of man. Worse still, no  ideological and political system in force in the twentieth Century has remained  unaffected by superfical and anti-scientific arguments to the effect that human
8  beings are not capable of developing lofty spiritual or moral values or of promoting  them sufficiently to have a real influence on the course of history.
(13.13) Human beings in the twenty-first Century must be trained to acquire a full  awareness of their spiritual and moral forces, which are without any doubt the  highest form of wealth created by human society. Mr President, this spiritual and  moral strength should make us see the tragedy of the material deprivation in which  millions and millions of human beings live. Our inborn intelligence and culture  should make us realize that the cardinal problems of poverty, exploitation, foreign  debt and fratricidal wars must be solved; if not, we shall a11 be affected. Only a  resolutely cultural approach cari illuminate the path which will lead the civilized  humanity of the twentieth Century towards the cultural humanity of the twenty-first  Century. We are coming to the end of a technological civilization, and we must set a  course for a genuinely cultured universe.
(13.14) But that is not all. Contemporary technological and scientific development  itself now makes it necessary, on a hitherto unsuspected scale, for social, moral  and cultural factors to have a geater influence on social economics. If it is to be  integral rather than disordered, economic growth calls for rationalization in the  use of resources; growth must be increasingly influential in improving the quality  of life and in making us understand that the problems of each and every nation in  the world cari be addressed only if we adopt a global approach. The material  technological civilization that has been created suffers from deep-seated economic  irrationalities which have become an obstacle to progress. Since the need for growth  is an economic law, if the economy is not geared to moral and social objectives of  great benefit to ail, growth will become, where it has not already become, an  obstable which ends by having widespread repercussions on the economy itself and,  more importantly, on the social system. In particular, disordered growth is a cause  of profound moral perturbations, with serious political implications which generate  conflicts of a11 kinds.
(13.15) One of the most dramatic examples is perhaps the processes involved in the  production and marketing of the narcotic drugs introduced to the civilized market of  the West. This is creating situations with unforeseeable political repercussions,  and also reveals the level of corruption and moral decadence of the societies that  produce, traffic in and consume drugs. More energetic measures must be taken; but  the point must also be made that drug trafficking is a part of the machinery of the  social system that has brought it into being. A high level of cultural awareness  creates a realization that technological and material development must be geared not  the impoverishment of life but an improvement in its quality. Improvement is an  integral part of the standard of living, and meshes in with the solution of the  fundamental problems of the modern world. These problems include the growing  impoverishment of the Third World and the destitution to be found in different areas  and social classes even in the developed world itself. An insight into the need to  solve those problems will be gained only if there is a political will based on the  more profound and wide-ranging vision that cari be provided by culture.
(13.16) At the United Nations Conference held in 1979, speaking on behalf of the  Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, President Fidel Castro explained that the  economic growth of the highly developed countries had been facilitated by a gradua1  expansion of the market. The economies of those countries were based on trade with  each other and also on the exploitation of the colonial and neocolonial world.  Today , the expansion of the market towards the Third World could become a factor in  boosting the economy, but for that purpose the Third World should be seen not only  as a supplier of raw materials, but also as requiring substantial capital  investment. If a stronger production base is built up in the developing countries in  the context of the new international economic order, this will also be a step  towards opening up new possibilities of economic growth and social improvement for  the human race as a whole. This is no Utopia; it is, in point of fact, the ultimate  guarantee of the future of humanity.
(13.17) But, the emergence of a modern approach to the problems facing the world  economy as a whole is hampered by existing economic models and the selfishness of  nations and groups. The need to find solutions to the very serious economic problems  encountered at present by governments of a11 types should be obvious to any  cultivated person today. It is not, however, obvious to those wo take decisions from  selfish or technocratie standpoints, nor to those whose economic interests are bound  up with the military industry. It is not obvious to those who encourage the wasteful  and indiscriminate use of energy, a source of concern to the most enlightened  scientits of the world. Irrationality predominates, and the perpetrators of these  crimes are the descendants of the fifteenth and sixteenth Century conquistadors.  They have seized control of the most advanced technological and scientific  resources, fuelling the arms race, and promoting indiscriminate economic and  technological growth which adversely affects nature and health, and produces a form  of consumerism that is inconsistent with the real needs of humankind.
(13.18) My friends, the most diverse structures built up over the last few decades,  on the right and even on the left, are now outdated. Today we must ask ourselves:  will mankind be able to survive the increasingly rapid growth of the military  industry, and an atomic war? Could it survive prolonged ecological disaster  seriously affecting the environment ? Will it be possible to continue living in peace  for any length of time given the extreme poverty, the unsanitary living conditions,  and , the ignorance that are increasingly the lot of the inhabitants of  underdeveloped countries? With such a situation, are we really living in peace today  or, on the contrary, are the conditions being created for violence on an ever wider  scale?
(13.19) Will the incredible figures for foreign debt, the real inability to pay,  which is confirmed by ail, and their inevitable outcome which is the gradua1 and  increasingly acute impoverishrnent of most of the Third World, provoke no reaction;  or will the consequences be even more dramatic ? What will the life of human beings  be like once despair, destitution and hunger have driven peoples subjugated by  foreign debt to cause upheavals and social strife in the most developed areas of the  world? And if a11 these realities combine to trigger off an uncontrolled chain of  events, will we not end by producing unmanageable situations which will lead  civilized humanity of the twentieth Century to dig its own grave? It has been said  that we, the revolutionaries, engender violence. We cari affirm, dispassionately and  with profound concern for the destiny of the human race, that violence is being  spawned in the social processes at work in today’s world; if we are incapable of  deep reflection on these facts, and if we fail to unite in confronting them by  launching a programme of action, the consequences Will be disastrous for rich and  poor alike - although the latter have much less to lose.
(13.20) Distinguished representatives of Member States, now is indeed the time to  think about the future of humankind. We need the guiding light of sicence, education  and culture to show us the way. And Unesco, whose international prestige has  withstood every test, is an organization of exceptional importance in which to pave  the way for future generations to live in a better world than the one in which we  have lived and are living. TO that end we must promote and develop culture,  education and science; and to that end we must make use of the accumulated heritage  of science and technology. But this heritage must be made more profoundly cultural,  more profoundly spiritual and more profoundly humanistic.
(13.21) Can Unesco be made a cultural and moral forum which has a decisive  influence on the elucidation and solution of these serious problems? We are, at  least, in duty bound to make the attempt. Thank you.
14. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Cuba and now give the floor to  H.E. Mr Nobutaka Machimura, Parliamentary Vice-Minister for Education, Science  and Culture and head of the delegation of Japan.
15.1 Mr MACHIMURA (Japan):  Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf  of the delegation of Japan, 1 should like, first of all, to congratulate you,  Mr Anwar Ibrahim, on your election as President of this session of the General  Conference. 1 should also like to express my sincere thanks to the members of  the Executive Board, as well as to Mr Federico Mayor, the Director-General, and  his staff for their untiring efforts in preparing for this session.
15.2 Mr President, today, interdependence among the different nations is  gaining strength with the development of transportation and the communication  media, as well as the expansion of economic and cultural exchanges. We are also  witnessing, however, increasing friction and distord in various areas of the  international community. In these circumstances, there is a growing need to  increase mutual understanding among different peoples. In response to these  circumstances, a great many efforts have been made to increase mutual  understanding through educational, scientific and cultural exchanges in various  forms at the multilateral, bilateral and non-governmental levels. On the  threshold of the twenty-first Century, 1 sincerely hope that, in accordance with  these trends, Unesco Will be able to recognize its unique function as a  specialized agency of the United Nations and to do its utmost to pursue its  original mission.
15.3 Mr President, if Unesco is to develop further its activites on the  basis of its original purpose, the first and foremost requirement is to draw on  the wisdom of a11 mankind: it is for this reason that its universality must be  regarded as indispensable. The return of the United States, the United Kingdom  and Singapore to Unesco is one of the essential elements for securing this  universality. 1 sincerely hope that these countries Will return to Unesco as  soon as possible, as a result of Unesco’s efforts to eliminate a11 elements of
294    politicization from some of its programmes, to improve efficiency in its own  functions, and to prepare a third Medium-Term Plan which cari be fully and  wholeheartedly supported by a11 Member States.
15.4 Mr President, the present session of the General Conference is very  important since at this session the third Medium-Term Plan of Unesco Will be  finalized. The Draft Medium-Term Plan prepared under the leadership of Mr Mayor  deals positively with the global issues of peace, development and the  environment, a11 of which are of the utmost importance to mankind. The Draft has  been prepared in the light of the reality of social and economic conditions  prevailing in the world, and also on the basis of 'continuity and innovation'.  This is a good approach. It is expected that the world Will witness more drastic  changes during the next six years. 1 understand that the Medium-Term Plan  presents the basic direction of Unesco for the coming six years. 1 believe that  Unesco Will be able to achieve the objectives of this Plan in the true sense  only by carrying out its various concrete programmes flexibly to reflect these  changing conditions.
15.5 Mr President, allow me to mention some of the basic views of my  government about what Unesco should carry out with special emphasis under the  third Medium-Term Plan.
15.6 First, let me comment on programmes in the field of education,  particularly the eradication of illiteracy and the universalization of primary  education. As the Director-General points out in the Draft Medium-Term Plan,  'people are not "made" literate'. 1 believe that illiteracy Will only be  overcome when every government commits itself to the development of literacy and  the universalization of primary education as the most crucial policy, and  co-ordinates it with other policies in social, economic, cultural and other  sectors.
15.7 While the eradication of illiteracy requires, above all, the  self-reliant efforts of individual countries themselves, there is also a great  need to strengthen international co-operation with a view to solving this  problem. On the eve of International Literacy Year, we greatly appreciate the  fact that Unesco regards the eradication of illiteracy as one of its supreme  missions through the universalization of primary education and the expansion of  continuing education for adults in its third Medium-Term Plan.
15.8 The total number of illiterates accounts for a quarter of the adult  population of the world. The situation is even more serious in Asia, where  three-fourths of world illiterates live. Taking account of the geographical  location of Japan, and as a part of our contribution to overcoming this serious  problem in Asia, my government is now considering the provision of substantial  amounts for a fund-in-trust for the expansion of the Asia-Pacific Programme of  Education for All, carried out by the Principal Regional Office of Unesco for  Asia and the Pacifie.
15.9 May 1 take this opportunity to refer to the Asian Cultural Centre for  Unesco (ACCU) in Tokyo, which is a non-profit organization financed by the  Japanese Government. The Centre's work is characterized by the CO-production of  literacy and cultural materials as a joint effort by the experts of the region.  At the request of Unesco, ACCU now plans to publish and disseminate a children's  literacy book as a contribution to International Literacy Year.
15.10 In addition to these endeavours, 1 wish to add that since May of this  year the Yomiuri Shinbun, one of Japan's leading newspaper publishers, and the  National Federation of Unesco Associations in Japan have been engaged in an  extensive fund-raising campaign to assist other Asian countries in carrying out  literacy programmes. In order to eradicate illiteracy, it would be most  effective to appeal to the public, both nationally and internationally. From  this point of view, 1 consider it imperative for Unesco to carry out such a  campaign in co-operation with the relevant media and non-governmental  organizations in the various countries.
15.11 In this connection, 1 should like to mention that the Principal  Regional Office of Unesco for Asia and the Pacifie in Bangkok has been playing  an important role in carrying out regional co-operation programmes, including  those related to the development of literacy. Unesco should therefore strengthen  this Office.
15.12 Mr President, next 1 wish to make some comments on science programmes,  especially those related to the global environment. Today, world population  growth, the development of industry and the expansion of many different forms of  human activity have caused various global environmental problems, including
295    global warming, the destruction of the ozone layer, and the pollution of air and  water. These environmental problems have become most grave, seriously affecting  the very survival of mankind. If humanity is to continue to survive and Prosper  in the future, a11 countries, both developed and developing, must draw upon the  best wisdom available, as a matter of urgency, in order to protect and preserve  the beautiful environment of the earth by appropriate means.
15.13 In my opinion, there are three approaches to dealing with global  environment programmes. The first is to explain scientifically the mechanism of  changes in the global environment of the earth, which occupies a small portion  of space in a vast universe. Why and how do environmental changes take place  through interaction between the geosphere, the hydrosphere, the atmosphere and  human activities? The second approach is to develop and utilize effective  technologies for the conservation of the environment with a view to coping with  such pressing issues as global warming and air pollution. The last, but not the  least important, approach is to deploy various educational, cultural and social  measures to produce people who have a deep concern for, and a proper attitude  towards, the environment.
15.14 This year, in co-operation with the United Nations Environment  Programme, my government organized the Tokyo Conference on the Global  Environment and Human Response to Sustainable Development. The conference  recommended that monitoring and interdisciplinary investigation of the global  environment should be carried out through international CO-ordination, thus  reducing uncertainties regarding the global environment. 1 think that it is  vital to bring together a wide range of scientific knowledge about the  environment through such efforts.
15.15 In this context, Unesco should further promote scientific explanation  of the global environment, on the basis of the findings of various  intergovernmental research programmes and bodies, such as the Intergovernmental  Oceanographic Commission, the Man and the Biosphere Programme and the  International Hydrological Programme, and in full and effective collaboration  with other international organizations and programmes, for instance the  International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme organized by the International  Council of Scientific Unions.
15.16 Mr President, 1 should now like to turn to Unesco's programmes for the  preservation and revival of the cultural heritage. The cultural heritage of each  country is not only indispensable for understanding its history, traditions and  culture, but is also shared by a11 mankind. It gives us insight into past wisdom  and accumulated lessons, while constituting a basis for cultural development in  the future and providing us with a forward-looking perspective. 1 believe that  concerted efforts by a11 nations for the preservation of the cultural heritage  Will contribute to the reinforcement of a sense of human solidarity. Recognizing  this, Unesco has defined the preservation of the cultural heritage as one of its  most important activities and has achieved some of its most successful and  tangible results.
15.17 It is important to mention, however, that once destroyed, the cultural  heritage cannot be restored. Cultural heritages, especially archaeological ones,  exist mainly in the developing countries, and most of them are in danger of  extinction as a result of severe natural, economic and social conditions. 1 am  of the view that Unesco should give clear priority to cultural heritages that  deserve to be preserved, should expand programmes for the training of experts in  the conservation sciences and restoration techniques, and should strengthen  public information activites. Taking account of the importance of these  programmes, Japan has been co-operating in the preservation of cultural  monuments in Borobudur, Mohenjo Daro, Nubia and elsewhere. We are also ready to  co-operate further with Unesco in this area by providing financial and technical  assistance as well as by the exchange and training of experts.
15.18 Mr President, allow me to say a few words about the United Nations  University, whose headquarters is in Tokyo. The purpose of the University is to  engage in research, postgraduate training and the dissemination of knowledge  through worldwide networks of universities and research centres, with a view to  contributing to the solution of global issues relating to human survival,  development and welfare. In its activities, the University is more closely  related to Unesco than to any other of the specialized agencies of the United  Nations. 1 am convinced that effective collaboration between the two bodies Will  contribute to the solution of various global problems.
15.19 The Government of Japan has been actively supporting the development of  the United Nations University by acting as host country and constructing its  headquarters. The building has been under construction since March this year and
8  is expected to be completed in 1991. 1 believe that the headquarters building  Will further facilitate the planning and organization of various programmes of  the University in many parts of the world. A plan to set up a research and  training centre in Japan is also under way. This centre is intended to function  as a tore facility for the University's research and training activities. With  these new developments, the University is now expected to further enrich its  activities. 1 sincerely hope that Unesco Will continue its co-operative  relationship with the University at a higher level than before and that Member  States Will step up their support for the University's programmes, especially  through their contributions to its Endowment Fund.
15.20 Mr President, 1 should now like to comment on the reform of Unesco,  which remains an important issue for the Organization. Many problems today cal1  for urgent solution through the efforts of the United Nations system for the  survival of mankind. They include the establishment of world peace, the  protection of the environment, and the maintenance of human health. The various  specialized agencies are at present trying to contribute to the solution of  these problems within their own terms of reference. As 1 have already pointed  out, Unesco, which is responsible for education, science and culture, is  required to carry out a constant and serious review of its original mission in  relation to the other specialized agencies. The reform of Unesco is not limited  to its administration and financing. It should also be accompanied by programme  concentration on global issues aimed at the survival of mankind, which must  essentially be tackled through a concerted effort by a11 Member States.
15.21 TO meet these requirements, Unesco must make further reform efforts  with regard to the structure of the Secretariat, personnel, decentralization,  public information and other areas. 1 greatly appreciate the measures taken by  the Director-General to promote such reform and sincerely hope that the  Secretariat as a whole Will make further endeavours under his excellent  leadership.
15.22 Mr President, it is in the area of communication that difficulties have  arisen in reaching consensus on programmes among Member States. 1 strongly  believe that the freedom of the press and the free flow of information are among  the most important values that we should protect on behalf of mankind, and that  Unesco, as an intergovernmental organization,  hamper these values.  should not adopt any measures that  It cannot be denied that there is an imbalance in the flow  of information in the contemporary information society. It is in this context  that Unesco launched the International Programme for  Communication,  the Development of  by consensus among a11 Member States, in an effort to reduce the  gap in the flow of information by  infrastructures.  developing good communication
1 consider that Unesco should concentrate its efforts on such  programmes, which are supported by consensus.
15.23 Mr President, 1 shall now turn to the budget of Unesco. Today, while  many international organizations are broadly confronted with difficult financial  constraints, Unesco is suffering more than others. 1 believe, however, that it  should take advantage of this crisis to concentrate its programme drastically.  Since the Draft Programme and Budget for 1990-1991 covers the first two years of  the third Medium-Term Plan, 1 hope that Unesco Will adopt a programme and budget  with zero real growth SO as to eliminate criticism about the proliferation of  its programmes and to demonstrate to the world that it is seriously committed to  its own reconstruction.
15.24 Mr President, it may be said that mankind today is going through one of  the most dramatic social turning-points that have occurred since the industrial  revolution. The tremendous progress of science and technology has brought about  new problems affecting the survival of mankind. On the other hand, owing to the  development of information and telecommunications technology, people cari  communicate with one other immediately and more extensively. This development of  information and communication has created a climate conducive to the cultivation  of a spirit of international co-operation and collaboration, as well as to an  increase in mutual understanding among a11 nations on earth. In these  circumstances 1 believe that we must promote mutual understanding among peoples  through educational, scientific and cultural activities, thus contributing still  further to the cause of world peace and the welfare of a11 mankind. Thank you,  Mr President.
16. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Japan and 1 now have pleasure in  inviting H.E. Mr Mohamed Charfi, Minister of Education, Higher Education and  Scientific Research and head of the delegation of Tunisia, to take the floor.
(17.1) Mr CHARFI (Tunisia) (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,  Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates. 1 have the honour to extend to you,  Mr President, on my own behalf and in the name of the Tunisian delegation, warmest  congratulations on your election as President of the twenty-fifth session of the  General Conference, and to wish you every sucess in your task. 1 am also delighted  to take the opportunity to express to the Chairman and members of the Executive  Board my grateful appreciation for the helpful assistance which that distinguished  body has given the Organization and its Director-General in the preparation of this  Conference. 1 should also like to commend and congratulate the Director-General and  his colleagues for submitting such clear and concise documents to this Conference.
(17.2) Mr President, ever since its foundation Unesco has been the ideal forum in  our endeavour to overcome the manifold problems confronting humanity. This session  of the General Conference provides us with a further opportunity for dialogue and a  concerted approach in seeking to limit the divergences and tension that trouble  relations between members of the international community. The preparation of the  Medium-Term Plan for 1990-1995 was based on an analysis of world problems and the  definition of the role Unesco is called upon to play in tackling both present and  foreseeable challenges, and reflects the Orgnaization’s broad consultation with  Member States, governmental and non-governmental organizations, National Commissions  and the international intellectual community.
(17.3) Today we are being asked to identify the common lines of approach which  Will serve as the basis for our joint endeavour to promote international  intellectual co-operation, in accordance with the ethical purpose of Unesco’s  Constitution. 1 should therefore like to express the Tunisian delegation’s support  for the general thrust of the forthcoming Plan, whose aim is to strengthen  co-operation in Unesco’s fields of competence, including the defence of human  rights, the development of human resources, the assertion of cultural identity and  the scientific protection of the environment. The connection between the policies  and guidelines of the Plan and the requirements of development cari be clearly seen  when we consider the close relationship between the seven major programme areas and  the objectives of the World Decade for Cultural Development.
(17.4) We have also noted the programme concentration achieved in the Draft  Medium-Term Plan for 1990-1995 through a reduction in the number of major programmes  and activities and the innovative proposals contained in the 25 C/4 document which  include mobilizing projects and special projects. We had,, indeed, feared that this  concentration might lead to divergence between the previous Plan and the present one  and between the Orgnaization’s operational and intellectual activities. However, the  recommendations and proposed amendments adopted by the Executive Board by consensus  and set out in documents 25 C/6 and 25 C/l08 seek to ensure a propoer balance  between action and reflection, as well as continuity in a11 domains in which the  Organization has recorded substantial progress. The Tunisian delegation accordingly  supports the Board’s recommendations and proposals concerning documents 25 C/4 and
25 C/5 and regards them as an essential complement to the Draft Medium-Term Plan and  the Draft Programme and Budget for 1990-1991.
(17.5) Mr President, it is also with pleasure and satisfaction that 1 note the  many points of similarity between the concerns of Unesco as expressed in the  Medium-Term Plan and the radical changes taking place in my country in its new  situation. These changes are the result of your endeavour to make a11 the values  which give individunls their full human dimension a living reality; individuals who
8  are social beings, whose rights are guaranteed and whose dignity is respected;  enlightened individuals who mature with the acquisition of scientific knowledge,  products of history who build on their cultural roots and creatures of nature who  safeguard the purity of the air they breathe. 1 believe that these points of  eimilarity reflect both the importance of Unesco’s response to the concerns of  modern man and the validity of the choices made by our people who are anxious to  enjoy the benefits of greater freedom and knowledge in a healthy relationship with  their cultural heritage and our country’s natural resources.
(17.6) One of the most striking developments in Tunisia today is the serious  effort being made to establish freedom as the organizing principle of society. Al1  prisoners of conscience have been released SO that no Citizen may be deprived of the  right to express his or her ideas whatever their nature. This measure was taken SO  as to strengthen our democratic policy choice which has won the unanimous support of  a11 political forces in the country and which has been given practical expression in  the ‘National Pact’, in accordance with both the letter and the spirit of our  country’s Constitution. In line with this policy choice, the multi-party system has  become a living reality with the establishment of associations and organizations  representing a variety of interests and tendencies. 1 need only mention here the  creation of the Tunisian section of Amnesty International which has strengthened our  efforts to safeguard human rights and to ensure observance of fundamental freedoms  and respect for the human person. A further step in this direction has been  Tunisia’s ratification of the United Nations Convention against Torture and other  Cruel, Inhuman and Degrading Treatment or Punishment, which we accepted unreservedly  in order to facilitate international monitoring in this area.
(17.7) Similarly, the regulations governing the systems of police custody and  preventive detention have been reviewed and codified SO as to protect the  individual’s freedom and dignity against any abuse or injustice. For example,  accused persons and their families are entitled to demand a medical examination  during interrogation in order to check that the defendants are in good physical  condition and are being properly treated. The importance of this safeguard is  self-evident. The public, both at home and abroad, is now kept informed of a11 that  takes place in this domain, especially since our Press Law has been revised SO as to  allow investigative reporting and freedom of information and interpretation.
(17.8) Aware that true liberty in any form must be based on objective knwoledge of  a11 aspects of human experience, we set about retructuring oui school system in  order to implant firmly within it the notion of the individual as Citizen, a notion  which the political movement in the country seeks to define and impress upon social  consciousness, relating it to the elements that go to make up the enligthened  personality, achievement of which is the primary responsibility of the educational  system - for the first requirement of responsible freedom is objective knowledge of  things as they are. This, then, is the close relationship sought by Tunisia in its  new situation - and in the context of its drive towards comprehensive development -  in order to ensure that the moulding of the free Citizen will never be dissociated  from that of the enlightened personality. The President of the Tunisian Republic,  Mr Zain Al-Abidin ibn Ali, laid stress on this principle during the celebration of  the ‘Festival of Knowledge’ this year, when he called for the transformation of  democratic Tunisia into a ‘vast school’ where every Tunisian might learn whatever  was necessary to fulfill his or her human potential and become an enlightened and  well balanced person. In order to put these political and educational ideals into  practice, we have restructured and overhauled our higher education and scientific  research institutions and introduced reforms that will ensure the quality of study  courses as well as the effectiveness of research and the democratic nature of  management. We are hoping that these measures will further strengthen the influence  of the Tunisian University at home and abroad and will help it in its work of  supporting educational and cultural development in our schools and institutes,  particularly at a time when a serious effort is under way to introduce comprehensive  and thorough-going reforms.
(17.9) A number of important steps have already been taken in this direction and,  we trust, will be followed by other measures that will re-establish the true role of  the education system, SO as to ensure the democratization of education and the  quality of scientific knowledge and contribute to the development of highly  qualified human resources as part of an educational process whose theoretical,  practical and moral components form a balanced whole. We are convinced that only an  education system that will encompass every aspect of human experience cari provide  the basis of knowledge needed to give our practical efforts to improve our economic  conditions greater effectiveness. Knowledge of human affairs is also necessary if  people are to have confidence in themselves, in their countrymen and in other people  throughout the world and imparting such knowledge forms part of our endeavour to  develop and consolidate the spirit of human brotherhood. This explains why in the  reform of our education system we are giving special attention to rehabilitating the  teaching of the humanities, literature, the arts and languages. We wish to restore  harmony between these disciplines and the teaching of the pure and experimental
303    sciences and technology SO that there is no imbalance in the development of the  well-rounded personality.
(17.10) Progress in this direction should take place this year with the  introduction of the basic education system. Curricula have been designed to include  as many of these elements as possible SO that our Young people cari obtain the  knowledge they need to interact with their natural environment, and the values they  require to guide their conduct in society and help them to develop adjusted  personalities and to adjust to other people. Attendance at basic education classes  is planned to continue until children reach the age of 15 in order to give a11 our  Young people a better education, to prepare those not going on to secondary school  for vocational training that will qualify them for the world of work, and to prevent  those whose ability does not allow them to pursue their studies from relapsing into  illiteracy, whose widespread persistence in many parts of the world calls for a  determined remedial effort.
(17.11) We are concerned that people should enjoy the right to freedom, dignity,  education and information not only because these are requisites of development but  also because we want to be true to our cultural identity; for our age-old  Arab-Islamic civilization prescribes the disinterested pursuit of knowledge as one  of its highest values. Hence we have made concern for our intellectual heritage,  historical landmarks and famous personalities, both ancient and modern, an integral  part of our development effort. Coming to terms in this way with our identity and  history we cari make a more firmly rooted and a more deeply felt contribution to  human civilization. Thus if we are sincere in our common effort to build the  foundations of a culture based on the mutual knowledge of peoples and to ensure  greater awareness of our common origins and destiny, we have the right to expect  closer forms of co-operation as we seek to make known Arab-Islamic culture and its  contribution to humanity in the various fields of knowledge, particularly science,  philosophy and literature.
(17.12) 1 feel certain that spreading this awareness will help promote a more  responsible attitude to the earth on which we live and encourage measures to protect  it from a11 harmful factors. We in Tunisia have taken steps to rationalize the  exploitation of our natural resources and have made courageous decisions to protect  industrial zones from pollution, while encouraging scientific research in the quest  for solutions in line with our economic and social circumstances.
(17.13) Mr President, the common outlook reflected in Tunisia’s new policy and in  the Medium-Term Plan gives grounds for optimism concerning the future of our  relations with Unesco. 1 have referred to the specific points of agreement in order  to reaffirm oui determination to contribute on a give-and-take basis to the success  of this Plan.
(17.14) Mr President, 1 should like to follow these remarka on the Medium-Term Plan  for 1990-1995 with a number of observations regarding the Draft Programme and Budget  for 1990-1991. As regards the major programme areas, the Tunisian delegation wishes  to express its general approval of the definition of the priorities assigend to the  Orgnaization’s action in its fields of competence. Attainment of the objectives of  Major Programme Area 1 on ‘Education and the future’ is one of the most important  tasks before the Organization. One of these aims is to ensure that a11 social groups  enj oy ‘the right to education’ as a basic human right. Thus, Programme 1.1, entitled  ‘Towards basic education for ail’ and the mobilizing project concerning the struggle  against illiteracy address one of the most serious challenges that lie before us as  we seek to eradicate illiteracy by the year 2000. The celebration of International  Literacy Year in 1990 will provide a golden opportunity for mobilizing efforts and  resources and drawing up plans for achieving that goal.
(17.15) The aims of Programme 1.2 entitled ‘Education for the twenty-first Century’  tie in with our determination to strengthen the importance of human, moral and  cultural values in education and to provide the new generations with a  future-oriented education that will enable them to improve the quality of their  lives while obtaining the training they need to enter into the world of work. We  expect the Organization to give strong support to regional and international  co-operation in the effort to achieve the objectives of Programme 1.3 entitled  ‘Promoting the advancement of education’, which the Executive Board has proposed  renaming ‘Support for the development of education’.
(17.16) We are also in agreement with the priorities of Major Programme Area II on  ‘Science for progress and the environment’ and we support the recommendations of the  Executive Board in this regard, including those on the development of science  teaching at a11 levels, action to increase the participation of the developing  countries and their national institutions in the planning of activities in the  sciences and support for their participation in a11 the Organization’s scientific  activities.
(17.17) Major Programme Area III entitled ‘Culture: Past, present and future’  provides an ideal framework for the objectives and strategies of the World Decade  for Cultural Development. While on this subject, 1 should like to say that we expect  the Organization to play an active role in putting into practice the principle of  equality between cultures by promoting cultural exchanges between the industrialized  and the developing countries and setting up programmes to help the developing  countries to make their cultures and cultural products better known beyond their  frontiers.
(17.18) As regards Major Programme Area IV entitled ‘Communication in the service  of humanity’ , we wish to express our unreserved support for the recommendations and  proposed modifications adopted by consensus by the Executive Board. We have a duty  to preserve the Organization’s achievements in this regard and to stand by the  principles we defended when we advocated the establisbment of a new world  information and communication order based on a balanced flow of information between  the industrialized and the developing world. We strongly support the view that  Unesco has an essential and pioneering role to play in achieving this balance and we  endorse its work in strengthening information infrastructures in the developing  countries, particularly through the Internatinal Programme for the Development of  Communication.
(17.19) The unique role which Unesco plays in the United Nations system in the  social and human sciences is reflected in Major Programme Area V entitled ‘Man and  society in a changing world’. We note with satisfaction that the social and human  sciences, which had been included in the previous programme simply as a section of  Major Programme VI, have been assigend their due importance in a major progamme area  of their own. 1 trust that international and regional co-operation under Unesco’s  auspices in this domain will help the developing countries to give a new impetus to  scholarly research in the social and human sciences and, more particularly, in the  area of philosophy.
(17.20) We have great expectations that Mobilizing Project 2, on Youth, will  strengthen the exchange of information and data SO as to give us a greater insight  into the problems of youth in various parts of the world.
(17.21) The importance of Major Programme Area VI on ‘Unesco’s contribution to  prospective studies and to strategies concerned with development’ is that it  proposes to broaden the definition of the concept of the development of human  resources in Unesco’s fields of competence and to promote a better understanding of  the role of women, youth and under-privileged groups, encouraging their active  participation in the development of human resources. It also seeks to promote  understanding of the cultural dimensions of development, SO that cultural factors  cari be integrated into the formulation of development strategies. The proposed  ‘prospective development studies’ will provide an opportunity for building up  national capacities for prospective policy analysis and strategic planning. This  will undoubtedly strengthen Unesco’s contribution to the preparation of development  strategies for meeting the problems and challenges of the twenty-first Century.
(17.22) The programmes set out under Major Programme Area VII entitled ‘Unesco’s  contribution to peace, human rights and the elimination of a11 forms of  discrimination’, are closely related to the moral principles underlying Unesco’s  Constitution. We are pleased with the content of this Major Programme Area and with  the special project entitled ‘Towards an Apartheid-Free World’.
(17.23) Mr President, the content of Major Programme Area VII surely represents a  task assigned to a11 the Member States of this international organization, which we  must accomplish with sincerity and dedication if we are to contribute to the  progress of the human community and rid it of the many menaces that hang over it.  The promotion of the concepts of peace and international understanding, particularly  among Young people through the programme on ‘Education for peace, international  understanding and human rights’, has become an urgent necessity. Accordingly, we  urge the Organization to publicize the Yamoussoukro Declaration on Peace in the  Minds of Men and the Seville Statement on Violence, particularly through National  Commissions, Associated Schools and Unesco Clubs.
(17.24) We cannot speak of peace and human rights, however, without expressing deep  concern about what is happening in Africa, a continent to which we belong, and in  our Arab world, of which we form an indissociable part. The elimination of apartheid  in South Africa is an essential requisite for the security and stability of the  continent; and the exercise by the Palestinian people of their legitimate right to  assert their Arab cultural identity, to liberate their homeland and to decide freely  regarding their future is an imperative that will brook no further concessions on  their part or delays. How are we to talk to thousands of Palestinian pupils,  students and teachers about peace and human rights, while their basic rights are  being denied by the Zionist military authorities who have decided to close down Arab  educational and cultural institutions and universities in the occupied territories?
305    The question of Jerusalem, the exercise of the right to education and academic  freedom and the assertion of Arab cultural identity in the occupied territories are  not exclusively Arab concems; for these issues are closely related to the  international moral principles regarding human rights and international safeguards  against war and discrimination on which the balance of peace rests. We urge the  Organization to continue its effort to ensure the full enjoyment by the Palestinian  people of their right to education and culture in their country and to pursue its  work of safeguarding the City of Jerusalem as the common heritage of a11 humanity,  pending the entry of Palestine as a full-fledged member of this Organization.
(17.25) Mr President, the international community has made remarkable progress in  the effort to improve the status of women. We have examined with great interest the  programme activities related to the role of women in education, science and culture.  This line of action merits increased support and attention in view of the part now  played by women in society a11 over the world.
(17.26) Lastly, 1 should like to mention the Transverse Programmes and Ancillary  Services, and the Participation Programme, referring more especially to the General  Information Programme and the Statistical Programmes and Services; having regard to  the services they provide to Member States, these programmes should be strengthened  and more information disseminated about them. We trust that the Ancillary Services  (Bureaux and Office) Will help to strengthen the Organization’s relations with  Member States, particularly through their co-operation with National Commissions. We  also trust that the Office of Public Information/Unesco Courier will draw up an  information strategy in close co-operation with the National Commissions in order to  step up public information activities conceming the Organization and its programmes.
(17.27) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are being called upon here to give  honest, constructive, serious and sincere criticism of the Medium-Term Plan for
1990-1995 and its first biennial Draft Programme (1990-1991). We earnestly hope that  we shall be able to work together during this General Conference to achieve a  consensus in regard to the resolutions and recommendations submitted to us for ouï  approval, bringing to the task a spirit of understanding and tolerance that reflects  an earnest desire to consolidate international co-operation in the service of  humanity. May 1 wish our Conference every success in its work and thank you for your  kind attention.
(18.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank H.E. Mr Mohamed Charfi, Head of the delegation of Tunisia.
18.2 1 give the floor to H.E. Mr Jean-Pierre Keusch, Ambassador, Director of  the Department of International Organizations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs  and head of the delegation of Switzerland.
19.1 M. KEUSCH (Suisse) :  Monsieur le Président, c'est un plaisir tout particulier que j’éprouve  à prendre la parole aujourd'hui sous votre présidence. Mes premiers mots seront  pour vous féliciter d'avoir accédé à la charge suprême de notre Organisation. Ce  n'est certes pas une sinécure, et la Conférence générale fera bon usage de votre  autorité et de votre sagesse. Enfin, ayant été moi-même ambassadeur de Suisse en  Malaisie, je suis personnellement heureux de voir votre pays à l’honneur grâce à  vos talents et à votre habileté.
19.2 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, la vingt-cinquième session  de la Conférence générale s'ouvre dans un climat qui a rarement été aussi favo-  rable à l'idéal de coopération et de compréhension internationales. Les affron-  tements idéologiques de naguère paraissent faire place, un peu partout, à la  volonté de réalisations pratiques, d'actions concrètes, de mise en commun des  problèmes et de recherche de solutions pragmatiques.
19.3 Les organisations internationales profitent incontestablement de cette  évolution positive des relations internationales. A vrai dire, elles fonctionnent  enfin dans l'environnement naturel pour lequel elles ont été conçues et qu'elles  n'ont jamais vraiment connu. Trop de conflits, dont tous ne sont, hélas, pas  encore éteints, ont faussé le mécanisme de la coopération, trop de tensions ont  détourné de leur but des organisations telles que la nôtre. Sachons maintenant  saisir les virtualités que nous offre le système international pour en faire  bénéficier concrètement l'unesco.
19.4 Quelle chance, en effet, pour l'Organisation,  de son nouveau plan sexennal,  de procéder à l'adoption  au moment précis où la scène mondiale offre tant  de possibilités nouvelles, stimulantes. C'est  l'occasion de voir si  assorties de responsabilités  les réformes entreprises conduisent au renouveau de
1'Unesco tel que le conçoivent les Etats membres. Voici aussi venu le moment de  définir les orientations et les modalités d'action les plus propres à relever  les défis contemporains,  incontournable  les mieux à même de satisfaire à cette double exigence  de la planète,  : assurer la plus efficace coopération intellectuelle à l'échelle  répondre à l'attente des pays les plus démunis.
19.5 Les conditions nouvelles de la vie internationale permettent à 1'Unesco  de renouer avec les idéaux trop  créée. Paix,  longtemps obscurcis pour lesquels elle a été  liberté et développement, ces trois objectifs qui encadrent l'action  de 1'Unesco dans le vaste champ de ses compétences, sont aussi les thèmes majeurs  des documents qui nous sont soumis. Paix, liberté, développement, tels sont bien  les éléments fondamentaux auxquels se ramène l'Acte constitutif de l'Unesc0, et  que nous retrouvons, dépoussiérés et rajeunis, au fil des textes gue nous avons  sous les yeux, et que je veux brièvement commenter devant vous.
19.6 Engagée dès l'automne 1987 sur la base d'une large consultation, non  seulement de tous les Etats membres, mais aussi de la communauté intellectuelle  internationale, la préparation du troisième Plan à moyen terme a été menée par  le Directeur général en étroite collaboration avec le Conseil exécutif, qui a  formulé à deux reprises des recommandations à son sujet, dont certaines allaient  très loin. La consultation approfondie n'a pas abouti seulement à la présentation  de documents clairs et relativement concis, elle a aussi permis de concentrer bon  nombre d'activités. Il devrait être possible à l'avenir d'en regrouper d'autres  encore. Il faut en faire moins pour en faire de meilleures. Mais enfin, les  priorités sont maintenant établies : alphabétisation, environnement, développe-  ment des infrastructures de la communication. La présence de 1'Unesco sur le  terrain est mieux assurée : la décentralisation devrait rapprocher 1'Unesco des  populations qu'elle entend servir et la rendre plus visible et plus efficace  hors de Paris.
19.7 Le Plan comporte par ailleurs des aspects novateurs qu'il me plaît de  mentionner. C'est l'introduction de thèmes transversaux qui a entraîné la dimi-  nution du nombre des programmes. Des outils nouveaux sont présentés à titre de  prototypes : les projets mobilisateurs offrent la possibilité d'expérimenter des  méthodes de travail nouvelles, plus efficaces et comprenant la recherche de  financements accrus sur le plan extrabudgétaire : les projets intersectoriels et  de coopération interinstitutions devraient permettre de mieux coordonner l'action  de l'Organisation, au sein du Secrétariat d'une part, et avec celles des autres  organisations internationales, d'autre part. Si l'on renforce avec mesure et  cohérence la fonction de centre d'échanges d'information et de documentation, on  parviendra à multiplier les relations avec toutes les instances actives dans les  domaines d'activité de 1'Unesco. Le Projet de plan reflète donc nos préoccupa-  tions et constitue à coup sûr une étape importante sur la voie du renouveau de
1'Unesco et, j'ajouterais, de son attrait.
19.8  ciations  Il faut toutefois relever que sa mise au point a donné lieu à des négo-  parfois difficiles entre membres du Conseil exécutif. Les grandes  orientations du projet reposent sur un consensus qui reflète, certes, une réelle  volonté de coopération et de compromis, mais qui procède aussi de sensibilités  et d'aspirations souvent divergentes. La délégation suisse veillera à ce que  l'esprit de réforme qui avait animé la vingt-quatrième session de la Conférence  générale soit confirmé.
19.9 Arrêtons-nous un instant sur certaines des priorités retenues, tout  d'abord dans les domaines de l'éducation et des sciences naturelles. Elles nous  paraissent conformes aux attentes des Etats membres. L'attention de mon pays se  porte particulièrement sur les activités prévues dans le programme intitulé  "Vers une éducation de base pour tous". Sans éducation de base, il n'est en  effet pas de liberté pour les individus, pas de développement pour les sociétés  et donc pas de paix pour les peuples. Nous nous réjouissons de l'organisation  par l'Unesc0, conjointement avec l'Unicef, le PNUD et la Banque mondiale, de la  Conférence mondiale sur l'éducation pour tous, qui aura lieu en Thaïlande l'année  prochaine. La Suisse parraine les activités du Secrétariat en faveur de cette  conférence. La préparation de celle-ci, à laquelle contribuent les trois insti-  tuts spécialisés (Bureau international d'éducation, Institut de 1'Unesco pour  l'éducation et Institut international de planification de l'éducation) représente  un autre défi pour notre Organisation, qui est l'agence chef de file dans le  domaine de l'éducation.
19.10 L'Unesco se doit en particulier, avec l'aide des Etats membres, d'in-  sister sur la nécessité de concevoir l'éducation de base et les programmes
307    d'alphabétisation sur un mode intégré, qui tienne compte de l'indispensable  motivation des alphabétisés et de la nécessité de concourir par l'éducation de  base à leur donner les meilleurs moyens d'améliorer la qualité de leur vie.  C'est pourquoi la Suisse propose à la Conférence générale un projet de résolu-  tion dans ce sens, relatif au progrès de l'éducation de base.
19.11 Education de base pour tous et alphabétisation : pour atteindre ce  double but, on aura toujours besoin du livre. Or mon pays est préoccupé par la  crise qui atteint actuellement et le livre et l'édition en général. Cette préoc-  cupation, dans un proche avenir, nous comptons la faire partager à 1'Unesco et  aux Etats membres, qu'elle concerne tous, puisque la situation du livre est mena-  cée aussi bien dans les pays industrialisés que dans les pays en développement.
19.12 Par ailleurs, s'agissant des sciences naturelles et de la technique,  nous constatons que trop d'hommes dans le monde n'ont pas accès aujourd'hui aux  connaissances scientifiques et aux techniques qui les libéreraient de la faim ou  de la misère et qui permettraient à leurs sociétés d'accéder à un développement  durable. En outre, les atteintes à l'environnement menacent aujourd'hui la survie  même de l'espèce. Première Organisation à avoir attiré l'attention sur le pro-  blème de la dégradation de l'environnement, 1'Unesco doit apporter une contribu-  tion originale dans ce domaine qui complète celle des autres organisations dont  c'est aussi la tâche. Tout en saluant les orientations du troisième Plan à moyen  terme, la Suisse présente un projet de résolution qui propose une action nova-  trice pour l'étude des changements climatiques.
19.13 Le terme de culture évoque automatiquement la notion d'épanouissement  de l'être humain, une finalité du développement qui ne peut se réaliser que dans  la paix et dans la liberté. Le développement économique et technique, le progrès  social, conditions nécessaires à cet épanouissement, sont vains s'ils ne sont  pas fondés sur une culture vivante, creuset des valeurs, traditions et convic-  tions qui donnent un sens à la vie. Or, nombre de problèmes actuels sont liés à  l'érosion de ces valeurs.
19.14 Nous relevons avec satisfaction que la Décennie mondiale du développe-  ment culturel est au centre des efforts de 1'Unesco. Cette décennie n'en est  qu'à ses débuts et autorise beaucoup d'espoir pour des réalisations concrètes  qui nous semblent encore faire défaut. Il y a là en effet pour 1'Unesco une  tâche immense : préservation et renouvellement des valeurs éthiques et cultu-  relles, revalorisation de la dimension culturelle d'un développement centré sur  l'homme, recherche d'un équilibre entre tradition et progrès, entre la culture  technique qui tend à s'universaliser et les nombreuses cultures endogènes (patri-  moine culturel, traditions, modes de vie, etc.), entre l'exigence d'identité  culturelle et la promotion de la connaissance des autres cultures, pour favoriser  une meilleure compréhension internationale fondée sur la tolérance et le respect  d'autrui. La Commission nationale suisse pour 1'Unesco a mené ces dernières  années et mènera encore à l'avenir des activités substantielles dans ce domaine,  notamment à travers les manifestations organisées autour du thème "présence des  cultures africaines" ou celles, passées et futures, consacrées à la culture de  quartier et qui donnent lieu à une stimulante coopération internationale.
19.15 Par ailleurs, nous appuyons les propositions formulées par le Conseil  exécutif en vue du renforcement du rôle des sciences sociales et humaines au  sein de l'Organisation. Les études consacrées à l'homme et aux sociétés sont  indispensables pour acquérir les connaissances permettant d'agir en faveur d'un  développement centré sur la personne humaine et son plein épanouissement.
19.16 Paix, liberté, développement - ces principes s'appliquent aussi au sec-  teur de la communication. La Suisse est fermement attachée à la notion de libre  circulation des idées qui figure dans l'Acte constitutif. En même temps, elle  est consciente des obstacles qui empêchent la plupart des pays en développement,  faute de moyens, d'en profiter pleinement. Elle considère que c'est par l'action  que 1'Unesco pourra contribuer le plus efficacement à réduire les disparités qui  existent en la matière. Cette action est à ses yeux l'élément principal de la  "nouvelle stratégie" proposée à la Conférence générale. Le PIDC, qui existe, et  qui est en train de réformer ses procédures et ses méthodes de travail, pourrait  devenir l'instrument par excellence de la stratégie. La Suisse soutient les  efforts du PIDC et espère que d'autres pays viendront .pr.endre leur part de ce  fardeau commun.
19.17 La nouvelle stratégie, élaborée par les membres du Conseil exécutif avec  un grand sens des responsabilités, devrait permettre à 1'Unesco de tourner la  page sur les querelles d'hier et de mettre un terme aux malentendus du passé.  Malheureusement, la réaffirmation de cette stratégie, lors de la 131e session du  Conseil, a donné lieu à de nouveaux malentendus. La Conférence générale a toute-  fois l'occasion de témoigner clairement son attachement aux orientations nou-
308    velles de l'Organisation. Là comme ailleurs, 1'Unesco se doit d'apporter sa  contribution spécifique à la défense de la liberté et à la promotion du dévelop-  pement. Assurer une libre circulation de l'information entre les différentes  sociétés et au sein même des sociétés, renforcer les capacités de communication  des pays en développement, telles sont les tâches prioritaires qui incombent  dans ce secteur à notre Organisation.
19.18 Monsieur le Président, si le Plan et le Programme et budget tracent les  contours de l'avenir de l'unesco, le Secrétariat en est le moteur. Sans struc-  tures adéquates, la volonté de réforme des programmes risque de ne pas se tra-  duire de manière satisfaisante au niveau de l'action. Par le biais de l'adapta-  tion et de la modernisation du Secrétariat, le Directeur général souhaite à juste  titre se forger un instrument de travail approprié. Il était certes raisonnable  d'attendre l'adoption du programme pour agir en profondeur sur les structures du  Secrétariat. Cependant nous pensons qu'une politique plus énergique doit être  entreprise sur le plan de la gestion du personnel, par la mise en oeuvre rapide  des recommandations de la Commission créée à cet effet. Il reste encore beaucoup  à faire pour que 1'Unesco travaille véritablement de manière exemplaire. Dans ce  contexte, nous croyons que les organes directeurs se doivent de procéder eux-  mêmes à un examen critique de leur propre action.
19.19 Mon gouvernement s'est engagé il y a de nombreuses années déjà en faveur  des réformes. Il constate avec satisfaction que les organes appropriés pour-  suivent leur tâche dans cette direction. C'est notamment le cas du Comité spécial  du Conseil exécutif. Mais ma délégation est d'avis que le processus de réforme a  tendance à s'essouffler. Sans être négligeables, les réformes entreprises ne vont  pas suffisamment au fond des choses. Ce n'est pas seulement le fonctionnement  des organes de 1'Unesco qui doit être amélioré. C'est aussi leur rôle, leur  composition et leurs relations mutuelles. A cet égard, notre Organisation doit  adapter considérablement sa manière d'opérer. Des idées intéressantes ont été  récemment avancées : le Bureau du Conseil exécutif devrait avoir plus de compé-  tence, les sessions du Conseil devraient être diminuées de moitié, la durée des  sessions de la Conférence générale devrait être réduite, tout comme le nombre de  points inscrits à son ordre du jour. Ma délégation considère que ces proposi-  tions méritent d'être analysées, parmi d'autres.
19.20 Mais je voudrais rappeler l'idée exprimée à cette même tribune il y a  deux ans par mon prédécesseur. Nous pensons qu'il pourrait être utile de consti-  tuer une commission indépendante, formée de personnalités universellement  reconnues et estimées, représentatives des grands courants culturels du monde.  Cette commission aurait pour mandat de faire la synthèse des besoins de l'homme  de demain en matière d'éducation, de science, de culture et de communication et  de réfléchir au rôle dévolu à 1'Unesco pour satisfaire à ces besoins. Il existe  des précédents dans d'autres domaines.  présidée par Mme Brundtland,  Je pense en particulier à la Commission  alors Premier ministre de Norvège, qui a publié un  rapport fort pertinent sur les problèmes de l'environnement. Pourquoi ne pas  agir de même pour les problèmes qui nous préoccupent ici ? Il nous apparaît que  le rapport d'une telle commission pourrait inspirer et assister les Etats, les  ONG , les comissions nationales, les autres institutions concernées ainsi que les  organes de 1'Unesco dans leur réflexion et leur prise de décision.
19.21 Monsieur le Président, en réitérant cette proposition aujourd'hui, nous  avons conscience que l'idée d'une mise à jour générale des organisations inter-  nationales gagne du terrain. Nous pensons qu'il y a là peut-être aussi la possi-  bilité d'accélérer le retour de l'Organisation à l'universalité. L'Unesco doit  créer les conditions objectives propres à hâter ce retour et devenir suffisamment  attrayante par elle-même pour être, au sens propre du terme, irrésistible. Il  incombe aux Etats membres d'oeuvrer à cette fin. La Suisse, comme vous le savez,  y est disposée.
19.22 Une claire volonté de réforme s'est manifestée depuis la dernière ses-  sion de la Conférence générale, grâce, en particulier, à l'action de notre  Directeur général. Il appartient aujourd'hui aux Etats membres de la confirmer  avec force. C'est avec l'esprit ouvert que la délégation suisse se présente à la  Conférence générale.  nisation,  Mon pays a pris ses responsabilités au sein de notre Orga-  à la mesure de son attachement à la coopération intellectuelle, scien-  tifique et culturelle internationale. Mais celle-ci se trouve à la croisée des  chemins. Il convient d'en redéfinir les modalités,  jouer  de revoir le rôle que peut y
1'Unesco et d'insérer encore mieux son action dans le regain d'activité  que connaissent heureusement les organisations internationales. Là encore, la  Suisse entend participer pleinement à notre entreprise commune au service de la  paix, de la liberté et du développement.
20. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegat'ion of Switzerland and 1 now invite  H.E. Professor Teng Teng, Vice-Chairman of the State Education Commission and  head of the delegation of China, to take the floor.
(21.1) Mr TENG (China) (Translation from the Chinese):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset,  please permit me, Mr President, on behalf of the Chinese delgation and on my own  behalf, to offer you my heartfelt congratulations on your assumption of the  Presidency of the General Conference. 1 believe that under your able guidance, the  Conference Will prove a complete success. 1 should also like to extend our warmest  welcome to the delegations from the new members of the Organization, the Cook  Islands and the Republic of Kiribati in the South Pacifie, and the Republic of  Djibouti in Africa.
(21.2) Mr President, our era is one of striving for peace and development. While  signs of war still exist, the signs of peace are growing. The overall situation in
311  -_I_--.- ..~--- _-_.-- ._~ ..-- _~ -,    the world today is moving towards détente. The possibility of a relatively lasting  peace is beckoning us. In international relations, the tendency for  multipolarization has developed further, as more than 100 Third World countries that  account for three-fourths of the world’s population are playing a more and more  important role. We are pleased with a11 these positive changes and therefore look  with optimism towards the vision of a bright future for humanity.
(21.3) However, the international community is at the same time confronted with  many challenges. Regional conflicts have not ceased and the arms race is still going  on. Some international contradictions have even intensified, owing to the flagrant  violation of recognized norms of international law. In spite of the situation of  détente, the North-South relationship is still in a state of deadlock. The  rich-and-poor gap between the industrialized and developing countries continues to  widen. Furthermore, the harsh reality which should not be overlooked comprises the  following: the unfair international economic relationship, the heavy debt burden,  ever-increasing population pressure as well as hunger, poverty, unemployment,  illiteracy, the constant deterioration of the natural and life-sustaining  environment, a11 of which, considerably perturbing most of the Third World  countries, are major world issues challenging humankind today . Their proper  solution, and the improvement of the deteriorating situation of the Thrid World  countries, should constitute the essential starting-point of Unesco’s conception,  elaboration and implementation of future plans , programmes and projects.
(21.4) Past experience has shown that multilateral co-operation to safeguard peace  and promote social progress is a need of the times, proof of the interdependence of  the international community and a major means of promoting the common development of  various countries. The 1980s Will soon bid us farewell, and the 1990s are  approaching with rapid strides. Unesco should, and we believe it certainly Will, in  the forthcoming decade, continue to play its unique and irreplaceable role in the  lofty cause of promoting peace and development.
(21.5) Mr President, examination of the Draft Medium-Term Plan for the next six  years (25 C/4) is undoubtedly one of the most important items on the agenda of the  present session of the General Conference. First of all, please allow me to join the  previous speakers in whole-heartedly thanking the Director-General and his  colleagues in the Secretariat for their efforts in preparing such an important and  timely document. Document 24 C/4 is both shorter and more readable. It successfully  reflects the principle of better programme concentration and closer relevance to the  practical needs of the developing countries. Its layout has also been improved to  some extent. Al1 this is praiseworthy. The Chinese delegation has studied this  document carefully and considers that the draft basically reflects the needs of the  Member States and complies with the relevant directives of the Executive Board, and  therefore cari be accepted as a basis for discussion at the General Conference. 1  wish to emphasize in particular the following points.
(21.6) China supports a11 the programmes concerning education and especially those  relating to basic education for all, and the mobilizing projects having to do with  literacy contained in the Draft Medium-Term Plan and the Programme and Budget for  the next biennium. Considering the grim fact that there are now still nearly
900,000,000 illiterates in the world and the unshirkable vocation of Unesco in this  regard, it goes without saying that literacy should be considered as the first  priority of the Orqanization in the next six years.
(21.7) China also lends its support to and actively participates in a11 the  programmes related to basic sciences, engineering sciences and environmental  resource sciences, as well as the major joint programmes such as the IHP, IGCP, MAB,  IOC and IIP. We hope that their implementation Will be further improved in the next  six years.
(21.8) China endorses and Will actively participate in the various activities of  cultural co-operation within the framework of the World Decade for Cultural  Development initiated by the Organization. 1 should like to avail myself of this  opportunity to reiterate that China is ready to make efforts, to contribute to the  success of the project for the Integral Study of the Silk Roads - one the three  major world projects of the Decade.
(21.9) The amendment concerning studies on apartheid in South Africa as the sole  special project in the Draft Medium-Term Plan of the Organization also meets our  support as it Will contribute to the earliest possible elimination of this scourge  from the world.
(21.10) We are also in favour of the amendments contained in the recommendations of  the Executive Board on the study of people’s rights while implementing activities to  promote human rights.
(21.11) Mr President, needless to say, Major Programme Area IV - Communication - in  the Draft Medium-Term Plan is the part occasioning great controversy, and from the  title to the content of its programmes it is substantially amended in the  recommendation of the Executive Board. The Chinese delegation endorses these  amendments in principle. The demand of many developing countries for the  establishment of a new world information and communication order is fully justified  and reasonable, and we give it our firm support. A more balanced and two-way flow of  information Will contribute to better understanding and friendship between countries  and peoples, which undoubtedly constitutes an important objective of the  co-operative activities of the Organization in the field of communication. The  existing flow of world information, it should be noted, is far from satisfactory.  The unobjective, unfair and, in some cases, even distorted news coverage of  developing countries has naturally aroused grave concern in many Thrid World  countries. However, we are happy to note that in order to redress the imbalance of  communication, the Organization has sponsored many useful activities in helping  developing countries to strengthen their communication infrastructure and train  personnel. In the next Medium-Term Plan, activities in this field are again listed  as priorities, and this is fully in conformity with the decisions of the Executive  Board and the interests of many Member States, and therefore wins the support of the  Chinese delegation.
(21.12) Mr President, development is one of the two fundamental issues in the  contemporary world. As the most dynamic agency for intellectual co-operation in the  United Nations system, Unesco cari make a unique contribution to research on  development. It is our opinion that countries with different social systems,  historical and cultural backgrounds and levels of development should proceed from  their own circumstances and adopt the development strategy which they regard as most  suitable for them. In this connection, Unesco has put forward a number of strategic  and perceptive ideas and has done a great deal of work, welcomed and appreciated by  many developing countries. It is our hope that the Organization Will continue to  encourage and support the efforts to find different development strategies and  approaches to modernization instead of confining itself to a given mode1 or concept,  SO as to meet the specific needs of different countries and to make an appropriate  contribution to the formulation of an international strategy for the Fourth United  Nations Development Decade. 1 think it necessary to point out that the imposition of  a specific economic development mode1 and specific social values upon a11 countries  is a practice that conforms neither to the norms of international relations nor to  the trend in international development. It is unacceptable to any sovereign State.
(21.13) Mr President, the Draft Programme and Budget for 1990-1991 (25 C/5) is  undoubtedly the other most important item on the agenda of this Conference.  Considering the time constraint, 1 am not going to make comments on it in detail.  Considered as a whole, document 25 C/5 has been formulated in a pragmatic and  balanced manner, where priority arrangements and financial allocations in Major  Programme Areas are by and large appropriate to the needs, and where noticeable  efforts have been made to achieve programme concentration. The Chinese delegation  gives its support to this document. Since document 25 C/5 covers the first  implementation phase of the third Medium-Term Plan, and since its framework has been  laid down in document 25 C/4, my observations on the Medium-Term Plan also apply to  document 25 C/5. Bearing in mind that the budget for the next biennium has been  worked out by using the budgeting techniques unanimously agreed upon by the Member  States and that it is in the common interest of their participation in the  programmes, the Chinese delgation endorses in principle the budget ceiling of  US $370,670,000. It is true that the Organization is still facing considerable  financial difficulties. 1 hope that the Secretariat, in implementing its programmes,  Will take further austerity measures SO as to achieve greater efficiency and bring  more practical benefits to Member States within its limited resources.
(21.14) Mr President, as regards the Palestinian membership of Unesco, my  delegation would like to reiterate on this occasion that the Chinese Government  steadfastly supports the just struggle waged by the Palestinian people to restore  their lawful national rights, establish their own State and oppose foreign  aggression and occupation. China has formally recognized the State of Palestine  headed by President Yasser Arafat. We support the early admission of Palestine to  Unesco as a Member State.
(21.15) Mr President, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, China is a  developing socialist country belonging to the Third World. Recently, the 1.1 billion  Chinese people joyfully celebrated the 40th anniversary of the founding of the  People’s Republic of China. The Chinese people of a11 nationalities, united as one  under the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party are forging confidently ahead  along the socialist road in the Chinese style. We Will persist in our basic State  policy of reform and opening to the outside world, and Will adhere to our  independent and peaceful foreign policy. We continue to regard the strengthening of  solidarity and co-operation with the Third World countries as the corner-stone of  our foreign policy. We Will, as always, take the side of the Third World countries
313    in general and support their struggle against colonialism, racism and hegemonism.  Meanwhile, we are willing to develop friendly exchanges and co-operation with a11  countries on the basis of the five principles, namely, mutual respect for  sovereignty and territorial integrity, non-aggression, non-interference in each  other's interna1 affairs, equality and mutual benefit and peaceful coexistence. We  firmly oppose the interference in the domestic affairs and the encroachment on the  sovereignty of a nation by any country or any international organization on whatever  pretext. 1 am pleased to note that China and Unesco have for a long time maintained  a good and co-operative relationship, which, 1 hope, Will be further strengthened  during Mr Mayor's term of office as Director-General of the Organization.
(21.16) Mr President, 43 years have elapsed since Unesco was founded. In its  development, Unesco has proved itself to be an organization of great vitality that  cannot be replaced by any other organization. There is no denying the fact that in  the last few years it has encountered some difficulties. But we are convinced that  as the 1980s draw to a close, Unesco, through the combined efforts of the Member  States, Will surely rise above its temporary difficulties, face up to the challenges  of our times with a fresh stance and make new contributions to the development of  education, science and culture in the Member States and to the noble cause of  safeguarding peace and promoting human progress. Thank you for your attention.
22. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of China and 1 now cal1 on  H.E. Mr G.J.M. Braks, Minister of Education and Science and head of the  delegation of the Netherlands.
23.1 Mr BRAKS (Netherlands):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, first of a11 may 1 congratulate  YOU, Mr President, on your election to this high office. 1 am confident that  your wisdom Will guide us throughout this session of the General Conference and  lead us to a successful conclusion.
23.2 Mr President, this is an important session of the General Conference,  as we Will not only discuss the Programme and Budget for the next two years, but  Will also decide on the policy and orientation of Unesco in the next six years.
23.3 The last session was, to a certain extent, a critical moment in the  existence of Unesco as an organization with a global mission. At the time we -  like a11 other Member States - expressed our wish for the better functioning of  our Organization. We also wanted better programming in the third Medium-Term  Plan starting in 1990. The most important of these wishes was for a clear  setting of priorities, a sound evaluation mechanism and functional and  geographical decentralization.
23.4 The Draft Medium-Term Plan as presented to us in document 25 C/4 is  more compact in programming and clearer in its priorities that the preceding  Plan. We also appreciate that the number of major programme areas has been  reduced from 14 to seven. We find positive, too, the introduction of  'mobilizing projects' and 'transverse themes', which facilitates an  interdisciplinary approach.
23.5 The Netherlands firmly supports the formulation of 'outputs' in the  programmes, necessary for a sound evaluation mechanism. In addition to regular  interna1 evaluations, the Netherlands is of the opinion that project budgets  should include funds for project evaluation to be realized by external  evaluators, of course under the responsibility of Unesco's Central Evaluation  Unit.
23.6 Finally, my delegation notes an improvement in the involvement of  non-governmental organizations. This also appears from extra funds available.  The Netherlands is very much in favour of making better use of the knowledge sud  experience of non-governmental organizations. In this context, 1 recall that my  country recently hosted the General Conference of the International Council of  Museums.
23.7 Making use of experts in the field is one form of functional  decentralization. Regional decentralization within Unesco is also essential.  The intensified co-operation within Europe now leads to promising results.  Regional co-operation should not, however, exclude interregional co-operation,  especially between North and South.
23.8 Mr President, one of the wishes the Netherlands expressed in 1987  concerner3 the need for a better structure for Unesco. Now, two years later, the  Director-General has presented an Administrative Plan for 1990-1995 to us. We  note good ideas for improving the management and the organizational structure of  the Secretariat in this Plan. The intentions expressed are, to a large extent,  in line with Dutch views. But, as you know the proof of the pudding is in the  eating. Apart from containing 'guidelines' the Plan should be a 'tool' for the  necessary reforms. 1 would like to suggest that the General Conference should  request the Director-General to propose to the Executive Board adequate measures  to improve the structure and management of the Organization. This does not  alter the fact that the Medium-Term Plan and the budget already serve to measure  efficiency. One of the principles underlying the Draft Medium-Term Plan is that  Unesco should endeavour to 'do less in order to do better'.
23.9 The Netherlands firmly supports this objective and has already  advocated a more effective implementation of programmes and an efficient use of  existing resources. In his presentation of the draft budget for the next two  years, the Director-General proposes a real growth of 2.5 per cent.
23.10 For the Organization to be more effective, it is necessary that  priority-setting should be clone on the draft programme now before us and that we  concentrate activities on a limited number of major programme areas. A  reduction in the number of programmes and activities implies that more funds  Will be available for activities of priority importance. The Netherlands  Government holds the opinion that the Organization cari carry out the necessary  reforms and fulfil its tasks with existing resources.
23.11 The Netherlands Government therefore firmly believes that, with an  overall zero-growth budget, it is possible to have a sound programme and to  reinforce the priority areas proposed by the Director-General. The  Director-General's suggestion to use the funds available under the Participation  Programme for this purpose carries the risk that the nature of the Participation  Programme itself Will be distorted.
23.12 Mr President, 1 find the 'Purposes and functions' of Unesco to be  entirely relevant after more than 40 years. Nevertheless, the emphasis in  programme implementation has shifted from 'peace and safety' to 'preserving a  world fit to live in'. In the concept of worldwide 'sustainable development'  Unesco should consider the opportunities and dangers of the future. This means  that from the perspective of its mandate, a contribution to the preservation of  a liveable environment and the solution of social problems and  important.  illiteracy are  These three themes are interrelated and tut across a11 programmes  for education, science, culture and communication.
23.13 Allow me, Mr President, to make a few remarks on the major programme  areas and to point to a few issues that in our view are necessary. 1 shall be  brief, as detailed discussions Will take place in the commissions.
23.14 With regard to the major programme area on education, 1 would like to  make the following remarks. Disadvantages in infrastructures widen the gap in  the field of education as well. This is certainly the case if,  disadvantage,  by this  no use cari be made of new methods in educational techniques.
23.15 One of the most important challenges facing Unesco is the fight against  illiteracy. The ability to read and Write is a basic right and fundamental for  education. The elimination of illiteracy must be given top priority if Unesco  wants to meet the demands implicit in its mandate. In our opinion, a coherent  strategy, a plan of action based on document 25 C/5, is therefore vital.
23.16 We should also be aware of the increasing problem of  illiteracy which deserves  computer  a global approach. International Literacy Year in
1990 cari,, in this context, contribute to the mobilization of forces within  Member States.
23.17 1 wish to stress again, as my government did during the last  MINEDEUROPE Conference, the importance of regional and interregional  co-operation, for example in the field of distance education and curriculum  development. The Netherlands Curriculum Development Foundation has taken the  initiative of setting up a network for this purpose.
23.18 With regard to co-operation between multilateral organizations in the  field of education, 1 should like to mention a Netherlands initiative. Within  the Council of Europe a European Network on Women's Studies has been set up.  Discussions are currently taking place between the Council of Europe and  Unesco-CEPES for a permanent link with this network. The Netherlands Will  submit a draft resolution to this effect.
23.19 Mr President, Radies and gentlemen, let me now turn to science. Al1  the sciences Will have to make their contribution to the preservation of the  environment. The pace of environmental degradation is even more rapid than the  Medium-Term Plan suggests. The Plan is right to focus attention on the  environment, but Unesco has to co-operate with other competent organizations of  the United Nations family and with governmental and non-governmental  organizations.
23.20 In this respect, the preparation of an 'Annual Report on the State of  the Environment' seems too ambitious a task for Unesco to undertake by itself.  This should be done in a wider United Nations framework. Generally speaking, it  may be said with regard to scientific co-operation that the selection of  programmes should be better attuned to the real needs of the developing  countries.
23.21 The Social Sciences should be mainly concerned with the threat posed by  the continuing population growth. In the introduction to the Medium-Term Plan,  explicit reference should be made to the problems of population growth in  addition to the present themes of peace, development and the environment. They  should also be given greater prominence in other parts of the Medium-Term Plan.
23.22 On the subject of culture, Mr President, 1 would like to make the  following remarks: in view of the general theme of sustainable development in  the Medium-Term Plan we should add specific emphasis on cultural policy. We  should recognize the importance of continuity in cultural development and of  cultural diversity today. Many cultural traditions and capabilities that  represent the quality dimension in the lives of our citizens are threatened with  being swept away by unbalanced development. Some of the most cherished forms of  culture may in the future be available only in museums, alongside extinct  species, such as the dodo.
23.23 Like Unesco, Mr President, in the field of culture my delegation  stresses the need to protect the cultural heritage and promote contemporary  culture. The World Decade for Cultural Development - in addition to Major  Programme Area III - cari serve as a great stimulus for cultural consciousness.  In the context of the World Decade for Cultural Development, we have launched  initiatives to safeguard the Antillian city of Willemstad, whose historical  centre is in danger of disappearing. We actively support initiatives for  collaboration concerning the lesser known languages in Europe. It is urgent to  record languages and oral traditions that are rapidly going out of use or being  lost.
23.24 Maintaining qunlity should be one of the main themes dealt with in  connection with the cultural dimension of development which the World Decade  sets out to promote.
23.25 With regard to the topics of youth and women, Mr President, 1 wish to  make the following remarks. My delegation welcomes the transverse theme on  youth which enables the policy on Young people to be found in a11 sections of  the Medium-Term Plan. It is therefore no coincidence that the Netherlands has  once again included a youth representative in its delegation. 1 wish to appeal  to a11 Member States to include a youth representative in their delegations in  accordance with United Nations recommendations.
23.26 Regarding the Mobilizing Project, 'Youth and the culture of the  future', 1 wish to say that traditional cultures and values are not always  favourable for the development of Young people. The same holds true for women  and other groups, SO we are also strongly in favour of the transverse theme on  improving the position of women, especially as regards education and training.
23.27 Mr President, let me now turn to communication and information. The  socio-cultural effects of new information technology Will be far-reaching. The  gap which exists between the different countries and regions in this regard has  to be bridgea by training and reinforcement of the communications  infrastructure. The International Programme for the Development of  Communication could play a role in this respect.
23.28 But the debate on the communication programme SO far gives us cause for  concern. Amendments were introduced that were either political in nature or  without direct relevance to the Organization's mandate. 1 must stress,  Mr President, that the outcome of the debate on the communication programme is  in our opinion of vital importance since it touches upon the fundamental concept  of freedom of information which is a corner-stone for a democratic and  pluralistic society as it exists nowadays in the Netherlands. We are therefore  anxious to see that the consensus reached at the 129th and 130th sessions of the
8  Executive Board Will also be taken into account during this General Conference,  with a11 Member States in close harmony, of course. In this context 1 wish to  emphasize that it is the responsibility of Member States to see to it that  political discussions remain within the mandate of the Organization. Only if  this is recognized by a11 cari consensus be reached on issues that are of vital  importance and essential to restoring Unesco's universality.
23.29 Mr President, some concluding remarks. During the twenty-fourth  session of the General Conference the Netherlands Government clearly stated its  view with regard to the Medium-Term Plan, the major policy tool of the  Director-General. The Plan had to become a short, flexible policy document and  the major programme areas described in it had to be confined to those fields  explicitly referred to in Unesco's Constitution. During that Conference it  became clear that this view was shared by most Member States. This communis  opinio has not lost its validity since.
23.30 Finally, 1 wish to cal1 upon the Member States which have departed to  keep on following present developments within Unesco with close attention. Mw
1 express the hope, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that these three Member  States Will recognize themselves in the work of our Organization. In this way  they might take up their share once again in our common tasks. Mr President,  Mr Chairman, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, 1 thank you for your  attention.  (M. Ivancich Biaggini, Italie, prend la présidence)
24. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of the Netherlands and cal1 upon  H.E. the Honourable Burchell Whiteman, Minister of State, Ministry of Education,  and head of the delegation of Jamaica.
25.1 Mr WHITEMAN (Jamaica):  Mr President, your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, it is an  honour to lead the delegation from Jamaica to this, the twenty-fifth session of  the General Conference of Unesco, and 1 bring you, Mr President, Mr Chairman of  the Executive Board, Mr Director-General and a11 the delegates, warm and  fraternal greetings from the Government and people of Jamaica. We wish to  congratulate Mr Anwar Ibrahim on his election as President of the General  Conference and express our confidence that his experience and wisdom Will  continue to be an inspiration to the Organization.
25.2 Our esteemed Director-General, since the beginning of your term of  office you have made your presence felt in the Organization, not only in terms  of your management, but by making persona1 visits to the countries which you  serve. You have been in regular contact with the Latin American and Caribbean  region, and we note with pleasure your acceptance of our invitation to visit  Jamaica and the Eastern Caribbean and look forward to welcoming you to our  shores.
25.3 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are a11 extremely conscious of  the great sweep of history as we meet in this most beautiful city and in this  most significant year of celebration, when the nation which houses our  Headquarters observes 200 years of liberty,  historic setting,  equality and fraternity. In this  the Jamaican delegation is conscious of how much we share with  the nations of the world in our strong desire to create and preserve a safe and  civilized environment for present and future generations. We are very conscious  of our Caribbean heritage and our historical and cultural links with the vast  and powerful continent of Africa. We are also conscious of the fact that by  virtue of both our development history and the present global structure of the  world economy, we are inextricably bound to the metropolitan centres in terms of  trade, production, culture, science, technology and education.
25.4 Mr President, we give unequivocal support to the Draft Programme and  Budget for 1990-1991 and to the major emphases of this Conference and Will do  everything within our power to further those developments which Will accelerate  the targeted objectives of Unesco at this time. In particular, we refer to the  World Conference on Education for All:  in Thailand in March 1990;  'Meeting Basic Learning Needs, to be held  to the celebration of International Literacy Year in
1990 - and we are pleased to have been awarded earlier this year one of the  prestigious prizes for achievement in adult literacy; and to the target of  eradicating illiteracy by the year 2000.
25.5 There are two issues, however, which we are particularly concerned to  share with the international community. The first is the struggle against drug  abuse and addiction. Our Prime Minister, the Rt. Hon. Michael Manley, has been  speaking in regional and international forums of our government's view of the  scope and importance of the struggle and of how it may be most productively  pursued. Development of relatively small island States such as ours, situated  as we are at a trans-shipment point between continents, is severely threatened  by an international movement whose operating budget is larger than our gross  domestic product by many factors. Winning the battle is, therefore, both an  extremely demanding challenge and an extremely urgent imperative.
25.6 The second issue, Mr President, is the environmental one. Again,  island States are at enormous risk as they face the accelerating destruction of  the physical environment and the disturbance of the ecological balance. We are  concerned about the effects of the changes in the global environment on the  frequency and force of hurricanes, and many of these changes are not entirely of  our own creation. Our sister islands in the Caribbean, especially Guadeloupe,  Saint Kitts, Antigua and Barbuda and Montserrat, a11 suffered severe damage this  y-r, as we did last year. The effect of damage to our general economies Will  stay with us for years; it Will be with us long after the trees have grown again  and the roofs are back on the houses; it Will be with us perhaps until the next  hurricane strikes. But as well as that ever present threat, Mr President, there  is the constant reality of soi1 erosion, depredation of beaches, rivers and  marine life, a11 of which reduce our ability to enhance production, to guarantee  human safety and to provide a basis for growth and genuine development. These  two issues - the drug problem and the problem of the environment - are issues  which we believe that Unesco as an organization is necessarily committed to  addressing and issues with which Unesco, in its Draft Medium-Term Plan, is  equipped to deal.
25.7 On the wider issue of development, and in particular human resource  development and development in science and technology, we, like most developing  countries - and particularly those in our region - face some major challenges.  As we approach the twenty-first Century, we face the problem of having to deal  with a basic literacy/numeracy problem at one end of our educational spectrum,  while seeking to maintain our nation's economic viability in a fast-moving  technological environment. We seek support for responses which are relevant to  our situation. We seek solutions which are locally initiated, strategies which  are manageable and which are aimed at short-term effectiveness, while providing  a basis for long-term and sustained development.
25.8 Our experience indicates to us that a significant part of the solution  lies in the quality and type of education provided within our countries for the
12-15 age group (Upper primary or lower secondary) and we feel that our view  about the importance of that level of the education system is shared by many of  the countries within the region. We believe that it is within this spectrum of  the population that an immediate impact needs to be made in order to produce a  functionally literate and numerate population; Young persons who have a proper  orientation towards work and an awareness of national priorities and  imperatives; and a population conscious of individual rights, individual  responsibilities and individual potential. These objectives we would expect to  achieve by a programme specifically constructed to include remediation; emphasis  on science and technology; use of indigenous cultural experience for the  development of self-confidence and as a basis for the application of locally  relevant technology; and support for the forma1 system through public education  and the use of the public media. We welcome, therefore, the Executive Board  recommendation in paragraph 26 of document 25 C/6, amplified in document 24 C/4  Annex 1, which speaks to a higher priority for secondary education and proposes  the establishment of an international technical and vocational training centre.
25.9 We also need, on the broader international front, Mr President, to  convince the power brokers in the world of advanced technology that our  development of the use of science and technology is a matter of considerable  importance not only to us, but to them in the developed world, and is highly  relevant to global survival and to global progress.
25.10 We shall be speaking in the commission meetings specifically Of tw0  issues on this subject: firstly, the establishment of linkages between research  institutions - universities, scientific research councils, etc. on the one hand,  and the productive sector on the other, SO as to promote the application of the  results of research to economic development. Secondly, the creation of  opportunities for the emerging nations to produce and share their own relevant,  efficient and viable technologies, without constantly being obliged to receive  the technology of other nations at second hand or when those technologies have  already been replaced by more efficient systems. These issues relate, in fact,
8  to the need for the world as one world, and not three, to move into the  twenty-first Century with the most efficient systems globally for dealing with  the environment and accepting the challenges of providing health, education and  security for a11 the inhabitants of the planet. These issues take cognizance of  the fact that we survive and grow together, or not at all.
25.11 In conclusion, Mr President, the Jamaican delegation wishes to  emphasize that we believe that our national interests, the interests of the  region and those of the Organisation Will be best served as the work of Unesco  is strengthened. TO this end, we remind the Conference of resolution 18.2,  adopted at the twenty-third session, which calls for the upgrading and  strengthening of the Regional Office in Jamaica, and we look forward to its  speedy implementation.
25.12 We also believe that it is in the interest of Unesco and a11 our  countries that the full participation of the Member States of the United Nations  system be earnestly sought. The world has moved on since the start of this  decade; it is a different place, with different priorities. Our esteemed  Director-General has been working with vigour and sensitivity to heal the wounds  in the body politic, which caused the withdrawal of three Member States from  this august body. He has sought at the same time to preserve the integrity of  Unesco and to articulate the concern that every Member State and a11 peoples in  a11 nations ought to be accorded fair representation in the arenas of the  world. Your Excellency, we commend you and the Executive Board most highly.
25.13 The information explosion which has taken place in the last decade or  SO has itself brought a new dimension to an old problem, but our delegation is  of the view that the power of the market-place, full access - 1 repeat full  access - to the technological advances in communication, and increased and  improved provision of education for a11 our people are the best quarantees of a  viable and just information order. We therefore support Major Programme Area IV  and look to the International Programme for the Development of Communication to  work assiduously for the improvement of training and the acceleration of those  technological advances, especially in developing countries, thereby guaranteeing  a genuine free flow of information between and within a11 our countries. It is  our belief that the issues which originally divided Unesco cari now be put into a  new perspective and that a basis exists for a genuine universality which Will be  to the credit and benefit of us all.
25.14 Mr President, once again the Jamaican delegation commends the  Organisation for the manner in which it continues to serve the people of the  world and we commit ourselves to playing whatever part we cari as the struggle  continues. Mr President, 1 thank you.
26. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci beaucoup. Je donne maintenant la parole au dernier orateur pour  cet après-midi : S. Ext. M. Al Hadj Assileck Halata, ministre de l'éducation  nationale et chef de la délégation du Tchad.
27.1 M. HALATA (Tchad) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Directeur  général, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et Messieurs les  chefs des délégations, Mesdames et Messieurs les ambassadeurs et représentants  des organisations internationales, Mesdames, Messieurs, je tiens tout d'abord à  joindre ma voix à celles des éminents délégués qui m'ont précédé pour adresser  au Président de la Conférence générale ainsi qu'aux autres membres du Bureau  toutes mes félicitations pour leur élection par acclamation. Leurs qualités  intellectuelles et morales, leur courage et leur vaste connaissance des questions  qui préoccupent notre Organisation constituent de précieux atouts pour le succès  des travaux de cette vingt-cinquième session, particulièrement importante du  fait qu'elle a à son ordre du jour l'examen du Projet de plan à moyen terme et  du plan administratif pour 1990-1995. Je voudrais, à ce propos, rendre hommage à  tous ceux qui, de près ou de loin, n'ont ménagé aucun effort pour préparer la  tenue de cette session et je pense plus particuliérement aux commissions natio-  nales, au Conseil exécutif et au Secrétariat de notre Organisation.
27.2 Je voudrais également faire part de la gratitude de ma délégation à  M. Federico Mayor pour les efforts qu'il n'a cessé de déployer dans le sens de  la réduction des inégalités qui caractérisent malheureusement notre monde actuel  et surtout pour son effort constant de recherche de la cohésion et de l'harmonie  entre les Etats membres et de l'universalité de notre Organisation.
27.3 Nous saluons l'arrivée au sein de notre famille des Etats qui sont  admis. Puissent ces entrées permettre l'amélioration des connaissances scienti-  fiques et techniques dont le monde a tant besoin pour son epanouissement socio-  économique et dans les domaines culturel et politique.
27.4 Nous avions souhaité également l'admission de la Palestine, Etat reconnu  par de nombreux Etats de la planète, mais ce n'est pas le cas. Espérons que cette  admission se fera dans un prochain avenir pour permettre à la communauté inter-  nationale de bénéficier de l'immense expérience du peuple de Palestine dans les  domaines intéressant notre Organisation.
27.5 C'est enfin le lieu de penser aux Etats amis et frères qui ont quitté  l'Organisation. Que ces Etats, les Etats-Unis, la Grande-Bretagne et Singapour  sachent gue leur absence est durement ressentie et gu'il est vraiment temps  qu'ils répondent à l'appel qui leur est lancé de reprendre leur place parmi nous.
27.6 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, nous voici réunis ici, avec  nos diversités et notre volonté commune, pour réfléchir ensemble sur les voies  et moyens de rendre encore plus opérationnelle notre Organisation. Le troisième  Plan à moyen terme, avec le plan administratif pour 1990-1995 qui l'accompagne  doit, à notre avis, s'inspirer des buts et principes énoncés dans l'Acte consti-  tutif de 1'Unesco en prévoyant des activités qui permettent à l'Organisation de  faire face aux problèmes réels de l'humanité. A notre avis, l'aide au développe-  ment la protection de l'environnement,  hension internationale,  l'éducation pour la paix et la compré-  les droits de l'homme et des peuples, l'élimination de  l'analphabétisme, la lutte contre le racisme et l'apartheid, l'affirmation de  l'identité culturelle, doivent demeurer au coeur même de l'action de l'unesco  dans le futur Plan à moyen terme. L'Organisation doit être capable de mobiliser  la communauté intellectuelle internationale dans les domaines de sa compétence.  Les recommandations et propositions de modifications formulées par le Conseil  exécutif au cours de ses dernières réunions au sujet du Projet de plan à moyen  terme et du plan administratif pour 1990-1995, vont dans ce sens et il y a lieu  de les approuver.
27.7 Nos jeunes Etats sont confrontés à d'énormes difficultés en matière  d'éducation et de recherche, et les ressources disponibles à l'unesco ne per-  mettent pas d'envisager dans l'immédiat une représentation permanente de l'Orga-  nisation auprès de chacun des Etats membres. Il conviendrait donc de réviser le  budget alloué au fonctionnement des bureaux régionaux afin d'accroître l'aide  aux commissions nationales, celles-ci étant en contact permanent avec les insti-  tutions éducatives de leur pays respectif, en vue de l'exécution des projets  mobilisateurs envisagés dans le Plan à moyen terme pour 1990-1995. Nous pensons  que l'action de 1'Unesco doit être à même d'atteindre les Etats membres, les  éducateurs, les scientifiques, les artistes, les jeunes, les femmes, etc. A cette  fin, seules les commissions nationales, appuyées par les Clubs Unesco, les Ecoles  associées, les chercheurs, etc., pourront jouer un rôle déterminant. Il faut donc  renforcer les commissions nationales existantes et en encourager la création là  où elles n'existent pas afin de permettre à 1'Unesco de mieux jouer un rôle  catalyseur dans le développement et la coopération intellectuelle internationale.
27.8  vités,  L'Unesco doit être perçue dans chaque Etat membre à travers ses acti-  confirmant en tout lieu son appartenance à la famille des Nations Unies  et jouant pleinement son rôle de conseiller auprès des représentants du PNUD,  des planificateurs et des décideurs nationaux. Dans le même ordre d'idées, il  serait souhaitable d'organiser des visites régulières dans les Etats membres en  vue de favoriser l'interaction avec les commissions nationales, les décideurs,  les planificateurs ainsi qu'avec les représentants des organisations internatio-  nales, etc
27.9 Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, venons-en au  Projet de programme et budget pour 1990-1991 qui est soumis à notre approbation ;  il est la première tranche du troisième Plan à moyen terme pour 1990-1995 et  mérite une attention particulière.
27.10 Le budget pour 1990-1991 doit tenir compte de tous les impératifs et  permettre ainsi l'exécution du programme dans son intégralité. En 1988-1989, le  budget approuvé était de l'ordre de 350 millions de dollars des Etats-Unis. Pour  l'exercice 1990-1991, la proposition est de l'ordre de 375 millions de dollars  des Etats-Unis, soit en augmentation de 7,2 % par rapport au budget précédent.  Les raisons invoquées par le Directeur général, dans sa note introductive  concernant la présentation du document C/5, mettent l'accent sur les fluctuations  monétaires et font ressortir la croissance réelle. C'est pourquoi nous approuvons  l'augmentation de 8,2 millions de dollars des Etats-Unis proposée au titre II en  vue du renforcement budgétaire de certaines activités. Aussi trouvons-nous judi-  cieuses les propositions faites par le Directeur général d'augmenter de 4,5 mil-  lions de dollars les fonds alloués au Programme de participation pour 1990-1991.  Nous pensons que cela permettra  activités des Etats membres.  à l'Organisation de contribuer davantage aux  Plusieurs rapports de commissions nationales sou-  lignent les mêmes difficultés que celles évoquées par le Directeur général au  sujet du Programme de participation.
27.11 En ce qui concerne le montant proposé au titre des ressources extra-  budgétaires pour 1990-1991 et réparti entre les champs majeurs de programme, les  thèmes transversaux et services auxiliaires, il conviendrait d'augmenter le mon-  tant alloué au champ majeur de programme VII "Contribution de 1'Unesco à la paix,  aux droits de l'homme et à l'élimination de toutes les formes de discrimination"  car, comme l'a si bien exprimé le poète Archibald MacLeish, "Les guerres prenant  naissance dans l'esprit des hommes, c'est dans l'esprit des hommes que doivent  être élevées les défenses de la paix". D'ailleurs, les activités menées sur le  terrain par les commissions nationales avec la collaboration des Ecoles asso-  ciées, des Clubs et Associations Unesco, des chercheurs et des étudiants, etc.,  montrent suffisamment la nécessité d'accroître le budget alloué au champ majeur  de programme VII.
27.12 A ce sujet, je souhaiterais que la coopération entre 1'Unesco et les  organismes de financement en général et avec le PNUD en particulier soit encore  renforcée pour que les projets élaborés dans ce sens ne souffrent pas de l'in-  suffisance des ressources nécessaires. Dans sa note introductive, le Directeur  général propose qu'en ce qui concerne le champ majeur de programme 1, les efforts  soient concentrés sur trois domaines : la lutte contre l'analphabétisme, l'adap-  tation de l'éducation et notamment de l'enseignement supérieur au XXIe siècle et  enfin la création d'un système d'information mondial sur l'éducation.
27.13 Le Tchad est très sensible à cette proposition. Mais le problème cru-  cial qui va se poser sera celui des ressources nécessaires pour entreprendre de  telles activités, quand bien même la volonté politique existe. Cette volonté  politique s'est concrétisée par la création d'un ministère chargé de l'enseigne-  ment supérieur et de la recherche scientifique, d'un comité interministériel de  lutte contre l'analphabétisme et enfin par la participation à toutes les activi-  tés du Bureau international d'éducation, en vue de mieux appréhender l'avenir.
27.14 Ma délégation se réjouit de l'attention que 1'Unesco accorde à  l'Afrique, en particulier en la personne de son Directeur général. Les problèmes  qu'il a soulevés et les solutions préconisées pour les grands maux dont souffre  notre continent dans la brochure intitulée "Priorité Afrique" sont très perti-  nents et traduisent bien la réalité des choses.
27.15 Pour ce qui concerne les problèmes spécifiques de mon pays, ils sont  nombreux. On sait en effet que le Tchad sort d'une longue guerre ayant eu pour  résultat la destruction de toutes les infrastructures socio-économiques. Nous  nous efforçons,  Habré,  sous la conduite de notre chef de l'Etat, S. Ext. Al Hadj Hissène  de reconstruire notre pays et de jeter les bases de son développement.  Mais étant donné nos ressources très limitées nous ne pouvons que nous adresser  à nos amis et aux organismes spécialisés comme cette Organisation pour qu'ils  nous aident à trouver un début de solution aux multiples problèmes auxquels  notre gouvernement est confronté.
27.16 Je voudrais demander de manière pressante l'aide de 1'Unesco pour faire  des études de faisabilité concernant l'utilisation du froid artificiel pour le  développement. Le problème est d'autant plus urgent que mon pays est relativement  vaste, désertique, très chaud, à vocation pastorale et que les infrastructures  routières sont très modestes. Par la domestication du froid artificiel à l'aide  de l'énergie solaire (réfrigérateurs photothermiques), des problèmes pressants  comme la conservation des produits alimentaires dans les zones tropicales, dif-  ficilement accessibles, la conservation des vaccins, etc., trouveront des solu-  tions partielles. A notre avis, le projet est d'autant plus facilement réalisable  que des tests effectués sur des réfrigérateurs photothermiques dans des condi-  tions similaires à celles du Tchad ont donné des résultats positifs. Nous enten-  dons saisir formellement le Directeur général de ce projet qui nous paraît très  important.
27.17 L'autre problème que nous voulons soulever est celui des biotechnolo-  gies. Le Tchad a un besoin urgent d'accéder aux biotechnologies pour son déve-  loppement. L'Unesco a de très bons experts dans ce domaine et nous sommes dis-  posés à accueillir une mission pour examiner ce problème
27.18 S'agissant de la recherche pour le développement, j'aimerais insister  sur le fait que mon pays apporte un soutien ferme au projet "Intégration de  l'éducation et de la formation au service du développement". Et j'aimerais lancer  un appel pressant à 1'Unesco pour qu'elle nous aide a réaliser notre politique  de recherche pour le développement. Cela suppose un appui direct et conséquent  aux institutions d'enseignement supérieur technologique, aux institutions de  recherche, ainsi qu'un appui plus grand aux réseaux scientifiques sous-régionaux  et régionaux.
27.19 Le développement de l'Afrique passe par son industrialisation, donc par  la promotion des sciences et des techniques. J'estime donc, Monsieur le Prési-  dent, qu'une attention particulière doit être accordée à ce domaine.
27.20 Monsieur le Président, nous constatons avec regret que de nombreuses  demandes émanant des Etats les moins avancés concernant les activités priori-  taires sont souvent rejetées, faute de ressources disponibles. Il convient de  souligner que les Etats n'ont ni les mêmes besoins, ni les mêmes possibilités  d'agir.
27.21 Ma délégation propose que le budget alloué au programme 1 (titre II)  soit renforcé en y affectant une partie du montant prévu pour le titre 1 et  qu'une attention particulière soit accordée à son exécution dans sa totalité.
27.22 Cette réflexion m'amène à parler du champ majeur de programme II dont  les orientations générales méritent d'être appuyées. J'estime qu'une importance  doit être accordée aux programmes scientifiques, notamment le MAB, le PHI, le  PICG, la COI, afin de permettre aux Etats membres de réduire l'écart en matière  de science et de technologie entre pays industrialisés et pays en développement  et de créer des réseaux de coopération scientifique et technologique entre les  régions du monde. A ce titre, le Tchad a déjà créé des comités nationaux pour  les programmes dont je viens de parler, dans le cadre des activités quotidiennes  de la Commission nationale tchadienne pour 1'Unesco. Parmi les résultats obtenus,  je peux citer la relance de la Faculté des sciences de l'Université du Tchad, la  relance de 1'Ecole normale supérieure et la réalisation d'études en matière de  recherche scientifique.
27.23 Néanmoins, ces efforts semblent très modestes par rapport aux immenses  besoins de mon pays dans le domaine de la recherche scientifique et technolo-  gique. C'est pourquoi, dans le cadre des objectifs du troisième Plan à moyen  terme pour 1990-1995, mon pays souhaite une intervention accrue dans le domaine  de la recherche scientifique et technologique et un appui direct aux institutions  existantes ou à la création de nouveaux établissements
27.24 Monsieur le Président, l'affirmation de notre identité culturelle cons-  titue pour nous un souci majeur et nous sommes convaincus que, étant un facteur  de diversité à l'échelle planétaire, l'identité culturelle de chaque peuple ne  peut se concevoir indépendamment de l'ouverture aux autres cultures. C'est dans  cet esprit que nous avons mis en place un Comité national pour la Décennie mon-  diale du développement culturel. Le but essentiel de ce Comité est de mieux  affirmer notre identité, inséparable de la valeur attachée au patrimoine.
27.25 Dans le même ordre d'idée nous appuyons les recommandations du Conseil  exécutif formulées au sujet du champ majeur de programme II (La culture : passé,  présent, avenir) et proposons que le montant alloué pour l'exécution de ce pro-  gramme soit augmenté. Ceci permettra, sans nul doute, aux pays les moins avancés  de mieux surmonter les obstacles qu'ils rencontrent dans la promotion de leurs  cultures aux niveaux national et régional. Dans le domaine de la culture nous  souhaitons le concours de 1'Unesco pour la réalisation de certains programmes,  notamment : l'inventaire exhaustif des richesses artistiques et archéologiques  des lieux et vestiges historiques du pays ; la conservation et l'aménagement de  nos nombreux musées, monuments et sites archéologiques et historiques ; la créa-  tion d'un centre de recherches sur les valeurs traditionnelles ; la création  d'un institut de formation des agents culturels et la dotation du service des  archives nationales en moyens adéquats pour la reconstitution et la sauvegarde  de nos archives.
27.26 Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, les secteurs  d'intervention de l'Organisation intéressent notre pays dans la mesure où ils  correspondent le plus souvent aux domaines de la politique socio-économique qui  bénéficient d'une attention particulière de la part de mon gouvernement. L'Acte  fondamental de la République qui régit actuellement le fonctionnement des insti-  tutions de 1'Etat énonce en son article 18 l'impérieuse nécessité de réformer le  système éducatif pour l'adapter aux réalités sociales, économiques et culturelles  du pays. Mon gouvernement s'est attelé a cette tâche ; ainsi, le secteur éduca-  tif a subi des restructurations successives pour aboutir à trois ministères dis-  tincts, le Ministère de l'éducation nationale, le Ministère de l'enseignement  supérieur et de la recherche scientifique, et le Ministère de la culture, de la  jeunesse et des sports. Cet effort de restructuration a permis de réaliser des  Progrès considérables ces dernières années, malgré une conjoncture internationale  défavorable, les effets d'une guerre imposée et les calamités naturelles qui ont  frappé notre pays.
27.27 Par ses efforts, le Tchad surmonte donc progressivement ses difficultés  mais attend également beaucoup des organismes internationaux, et notamment de
322    l'Unesc0, pour étendre et harmoniser les activités culturelles, scientifiques et  éducatives sur l'ensemble du territoire national. Pour cela, une coopération  étroite devrait s'instaurer entre notre pays et 1'Unesco. Il nous a toujours  paru important de chercher à consolider nos rapports avec l'Organisation et à  les développer car c'est en harmonisant les vues que toutes les difficultés  seront identifiées et les solutions adéquates apportées.
27.28 Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, dans sa déci-  sion 127 EX/5.1.2, le Conseil exécutif invitait le Comité spécial à effectuer  une étude en profondeur d'une politique d'ensemble du personnel de 1'Unesco. Ma  délégation a pris bonne note des observations et suggestions formulées par le  Comité spécial à ce sujet. Mais la question du personnel du Secrétariat de
1'Unesco est d'une importance telle que nous nous devons d'exprimer nos vues à  son sujet. Pour notre part, nous suggérons que l'Organisation modifie profondé-  ment la procédure de recrutement des fonctionnaires en tenant compte de la  répartition géographique, certes, mais aussi des avis motivés des Etats membres.  Le Secrétariat doit aussi rechercher activement des compétences dans les pays  non représentés ou insuffisamment représentés afin d'assurer un meilleur équi-  libre entre les Etats membres. Il convient de noter que les bureaux régionaux  doivent être dotés d'un personnel compétent et qualifié afin que soit mieux  remplie la mission de 1'Unesco sur le terrain. Toutefois, en ce qui concerne  l'affectation de hauts fonctionnaires dans les bureaux régionaux, le Directeur  général devrait informer à l'avance les Etats membres de la région concernée en  vue d'éviter tout malentendu qui pourrait surqir en raison du comportement de  certains d'entre eux.
27.29 Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, pour terminer  j'appelle l'attention de notre auguste assemblée sur une candidature tchadienne  au Conseil exécutif. Le Gouvernement tchadien a décidé de présenter cette candi-  dature pour marquer à la fois son attachement aux idéaux de l'Acte constitutif  de l'unesco, son désir de coopérer étroitement avec l'Organisation et son souhait  de voir l'un de ses nationaux mettre sa riche expérience nationale et inter-  nationale au service des Etats membres. Nous souhaitons vivement que la Confé-  rence générale se prononce favorablement sur cette candidature qui, du reste,  est soutenue par tous les Etats de la sous-région Afrique centrale. Je vous  remercie.
28. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Tchad. La séance est levée.  La séance est levée à 19 h.05  The meeting rose at 7.05 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 19.05