Vingtième séance plénière
28 octobre 1989, à 10 h 05  Président : M. ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaisie)  puis : M. TENG (Chine)  puis : M. ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaisie)  Twentieth plenary meeting
28 Octobre 1989 at 10.05 a.m.  President: Mr ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaysia)  later: Mr TENG (China)  later: Mr ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaysia)  Vigésima sesion plenaria
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, a very good morning to you all. The  twentieth plenary meeting of the General Conference is called to order.
1.2 1 have to inform you first of a11 about the status of the Cook Islands  and Kiribati, both of which have now signed the Unesco Constitution and  deposited instruments of acceptance, on 25 and 26 October 1989 respectively, and  are now full members of the Organization and entitled to vote in the election of  members of the Executive Board.
1.3 We shall now take up item 13.1 of the agenda, 'Election of members of  the Executive Board'. In this connection, we have before  documents:  us the following
25 C/l32 and Add., 25 C/NOM/2, 25 C/NOM/INF.l, 25 (YNOM12.1 to
1.4 1 now give the floor to Mr Mussa Bin Jaafar Bin Hassan, Chairman of the  Nominations Committee, to present his report on item 13.1 of the agenda.
(2.1) Mr BIN HASSAN (Oman), Chairman of the Nominations Committee (Translation  from the Arabie):  Thank you Mr President. Mr President, distinguished delegates, 1 wish to  refer to document 25 C/l32 conceming agenda item 13.1, ‘Election of members of the  Executive Board’, which contains the report by the Chairman of the Nominations  Committee on that item. With your permission, 1 should now like to read out the  report on agenda item 13.1, ‘Election of members of the Executive Board’.
(2.2) In accordance with Rule 30, paragraph 4, of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference, the Nominations Committee, at its third meeting held on
25 October 1989, examined the nominations received for the 26 vacant seats on the  Executive Board. The Committee had before it documents 25 C/NOM/Z, the series of  documents from 25 C/NOM/2.1 to 25 C/NOM/2.44, and document 25 C/NOM/INF.l.
(2.3) At that meeting, the Chairman of Subgroup V(b) (Arab States) requested that  the following statement concerning composition of Group V be included in the record  of the proceedings: ‘Electoral Group V consists in fact of two distinct subgroups,  which are Subgroup V(a), composed of the African States, and Subgroup V(b), made up  of the Arab States. The two subgroups are sharing the ten seats falling due to them  at the present session of the General Conference as follows: seven seats for  Subgroup V(a) and three seats for Subgroup V(b). As agreed by the two subgroups, the  seat that alternates between the two and is at present occupied by Subgroup V(a)  Will revert to Subgroup V(b) at the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference.
(2.4) For the purposes of the present elections, the three candidates submitted  by the Arab subgroup are the candidates of Egypt, Iraq and Yemen’.
(2.5) The Committee also took note of the statement made by the delegate of  Cameroon on behalf of Subgroup V(a), confirming that seven seats were due to that  subgroup during the present session and three seats to Subgroup V(b).
(2.6) Having taken note of these statements, the Nominations Committee drew up  the following list, by electoral group and in alphabetical order of the candidates’
677    names, for submission to the General Conference. Group 1 (4 seats to be filled,
6 candidates): MS Marie Bernard-Meunier (Canada), Mr Murat Dilcmen (Turkey),  MS Ingrid Eide (Norway), Mr Giacomo Ivancich Biaggini (Italy), Mr Robert Krieks  (Luxembourg), Mr Kurt Müller (Federal Republic of Germany). Group II (2 seats to be  filled, 2 candidates): Mr Anatoly Lobanok (Byelorussian SSR), Mr Puni& A. Pavlovic  (Yugoslavia). Group III (6 seats to be filled, 11 candidates): Mr Gonzalo Abad  Grijalva (Ecuador), Mr Franklin A.M. Baron (Dominica), Mr Manuel Bartlett Diaz  (Mexico), Mr Juan Bosco Berna1 Yanis (Panama), Mr Kesler Clermont (Haiti), Mr Reuben  H. Harris (Antigua and Barbuda), MS Ana Isabel Prera Flores (Guatemala), Mr Alfredo  Traversoni (Uruguay), Mr Carlos Tunnermann Bernbeim (Nicaragua), Mr Alvaro Umafia  Quesada (Costa Rica), Mr Jorge Cayetano Zain Asis (Argentina). Group IV (4 seats to  be filled, 7 candidates): Mr Natarajan Krishnan (India), Mr Nguyen Van Dao (Viet  Nam), Mr Ali Shariatmadari (Islamic Republic of Iran), Mr Teng Teng (China),  Mr Jerry Emaus Tetaga (Papua New Guinea), Mr Adul Wichiencharoen (Thailand),  Mr Faqir Mohammad Yaqubi (Afghanistan). Group V (10 seats to be filled,
15 candidates): Subgroup V(a): African States (7 seats to be filled, 12 candidates):  Mr Immanuel K. Bavu (United Republic of Tanzania), Mr William Conton (Sierra Leone),  Mr Tom Erdimi (Chad), Mr Pierre Foulani (Niger), Mr Nicholas Mayugi (Burundi),  MS Dorothy Njeuma (Cameroon), Mr Oumarou Clément Ouedraogo (Burkina Faso), Mr Guy  Rajaonson (Madagascar), Mr Zaïnoul Abidine Sanoussi (Guinea), MS Therese  Striggner-Scott (Ghana), Mr George W.L. Thomas (Gambia), Mr André Corsino Tolentino  (Cape Verde). Subgroup V(b): Arab States (3 seats to be filled, 3 candidates):  Mr Aziz Al-Hajj Ali Haidar (Iraq), Mr Ahmed Saleh Sayyad (Yemen), Mr Ahmed Fathi  Sorour (Egypt).
(2.7) Mr President, that was the report prepared by the Nominations Committee at  its third meeting. However, since it was printed 1 have received a communication  from the head of the Delegation of Afghanistan to the General Conference to the  effect that the delegation has decided, in a spirit of international and regional  co-operation and in the interests of good neighbourliness, to withdraw the  candidature of Mr Faqir Mohammad Yaqubi, thus reducing to six the number of  candidates for the four vacant seats in Group IV. That was the addition that 1  wished to make to the report, Mr President. Thank you for giving me the floor.
3. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the Chairman of the Nominations Committee for his very  comprehensive report and commend him on the excellent manner in which the  Committee has handled its duties. Before 1 invite the Secretary to make an  announcement concerning the procedure to be followed and any last-minute letters  of withdrawal, I would like to inform you that you still have time to submit  letters of withdrawal if you wish. This is to facilitate our business. 1 now  give the floor to Mr Rodriguez.
4. Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Mes-  sieurs, voici donc la procédure qui sera appliquée. Le Secrétariat distribuera  aux délégations une enveloppe avec cinq bulletins de vote de couleur différente  correspondant aux cinq groupes électoraux. Chaque bulletin porte les noms de tous  les candidats présentés pour le groupe électoral en question. Les votants barre-  ront les noms des candidats pour lesquels ils ne souhaitent pas voter. Seront  considérés comme des abstentions les bulletins sur lesquels tous les noms auront  été barrés. Sera considéré comme nul tout bulletin sur lequel il restera plus de  noms qu'il n'y a de sièges à pourvoir dans le groupe électoral auquel se rapporte  ce bulletin. Ne sera pas considéré comme nul un bulletin sur lequel il restera  moins de noms qu'il n'y a de sièges à pourvoir dans le groupe électoral auquel  se rapporte ce bulletin. Les délégations seront appelées successivement par le  Secrétaire dans l'ordre alphabétique français des Etats membres, en commençant  par la Bulgarie dont le nom a été tiré au sort, et elles déposeront leurs bulle-  tins, placés sous une seule enveloppe, dans l'urne se trouvant devant la tribune.  Merci, Monsieur le Président.
5.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the Secretary. Before 1 proceed with the appointment of  tellers, 1 shall make a final announcement. If there are any Member States which  wish to withdraw, I cari now give them the floor. I see that nobody is asking for  the floor. We shall have to proceed.
5.2 In conformity with Rule 2 of the Rules for the conduct of elections by  secret ballot, 1 shall now appoint four tellers. 1 request MS Natalia Martin  Leyes of Colombia, Mr Yvan Boyadjiev of Bulgaria, Mr Sean Harkin of Ireland and  Mr Mohammed Hamad Omran of the United Arab Emirates kindly to agree to act as  tellers, and 1 invite them to take seats by the ballot box.  (The four tellers took their places beside the ballot box)
5.3 Costa Rica is asking for the floor.
(6) MS RIVERA de SOLIS (Costa Rica) (Translation from the Spanish):
1 wish first to thank the President. 1 should like to know if 1 may make a  short three-minute statement concerning my candidate.
7.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 regret that 1 am obliged to refuse your request. If 1 allowed one  Member State to speak,  follow.  it would set a precedent which others might wish to
1 hope you Will understand the position.
7.2 We shall now proceed with the vote. The Secretariat Will distribute  the ballot papers.  (The ballot papers were distributed)
7.3 Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretariat informs me that the ballot papers  have been distributed. If any delegation has not received them, please inform  the Secretariat immediately.
7.4 The Secretary Will now cal1 delegations one after another according to  the French alphabetical order of the names of Member States, beginning with  Bulgaria. Each delegation is invited to corne and deposit its envelope in the  ballot box when its country's name is called.  (The vote was taken by roll call)
7.5 We have now completed the first call. 1 believe one country, the  Dominican Republic, did not respond to the first call, and 1 shall therefore  formally proceed to cal1 on the Dominican Republic to corne and vote. 1 note that  the delegation is absent.
7.6 Now we have to verify the ballot box and the lock. The voting is now  closed and, in accordance with the provisions of Rule 10bis in the Appendix to  the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, the votes Will be counted in  another room, in this case Room V, under the supervision of a Vice-President of  the General Conference. 1 should therefore like to invite Mr Mizuo Kuroda of  Japan, Vice-President of the General Conference, to supervise the counting of  the votes. Would you please corne to the rostrum, Mr Kuroda, SO that 1 cari giVe  you the key of the ballot-box.
7.7 1 should like to thank the four tellers and to inform the General  Conference that we shall probably have to take a second vote for some groups. We  shall therefore resume the plenary at 3 o'clock for the second round of voting,  and 1 appeal to a11 of you to be present in this hall at 3 o'clock Sharp this  afternoon when we Will announce the results of the first vote and proceed with  the second round of voting as required.
7.8 1 think we should adjourn the meeting for a few minutes now and we  shall then proceed with the general policy debate.  (The meeting was adjourned for five minutes)  (M. Teng, Chine, prend la présidence)  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuation)  OBCY>KAEHHEBOHPOCOBOB~EMHOJIHTHKH(IlPO~OJIXEHHE)  (&) GWI “Ll+JI -L.LzlL  ksewiw ( f& )
(8) The PRESDIENT (Translation from the Chinese):  The meeting is reconvened. 1 now give the floor to Mr Eduardo Arenillas of  the International Association of Art.
(9.1) Mr ARENILLAS (International Association of Art) (Translation from the  Spanish):  Good morning, Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen. Speaking on behalf of the  IAA, 1 should like to describe our plans for the next few years, with reference to  Unesco's programme.
(9.2) Last May, we held our 12th General Assembly, financed by the Spanish  Ministry of Culture, followed by a Congress devoted mainly to the 'Recommendation on  the Status of the Artist', selecting a number of practical issues dealt with  therein. Attendance at the General Assembly was the highest recorded in the history  of IAA. The national committees of a11 the cultural regions were represented, with  participants from a total of 55 countries, of which 51 were members and four were  observers. It was not by chance that there was SO much interest in that General  Assembly. In the last few years many national committees have requested changes in  our type of work and the methods used. This was reflected in the proceedings and  resolutions of the General Assembly. The resolutions are directed mainly towards  studying the present status of professional artists throughout the world, through a  survey compiling concrete data which Will be made available to the Unesco Data Bank,  but basically, SO that the data cari help us to have as comprehensive a view as  possible of the situation, which we wish to change in order to improve the status of  artists and art throughout the world.
(9.3) Another priority in the resolutions was to endeavour to help with the  organization of IAA national committees in those countries where they did not  previously exist, without, however, overlooking those countries which are already  well organized. These proposals have been incorporated in the work plan submitted to  Unesco for 1990-1991. We shall try to organize meetings of the IAA national  committees in each cultural region and the Executive Committee of our Association  Will attend one of those meetings. We are planning, if this is financially possible,  to hold a meeting in Bolivia in 1990 to support the Latin American national  committees; in Cameroon, in 1991, to organize the African countries. Later, in 1992,  we shall hold a meeting in Asia, as the 13th General Assembly Will be held that year  in Seoul (Republic of Korea). Similarly, the European committees are preparing a  meeting for 1990, drawing on our own financial resources.
(9.4) There is a whole series of programmes which we shall try to develop if we  obtain financial resources - which are very limited at present - e.g.: new  technologies and art; the whole subject of copyright in the field of art; the IAA  archives (we feel it essential to organize these, as we have seen that the  associations in general do not have an organized system); three information projects  on artists’ achievements; the study and promotion of exchanges of artists throughout  the world and a practical request made by the Chilean committee, which Will be to  collect together the paintings donated by various countries to the Salvador Allende  Museum, with a view to transferring them to the Museum of Solidarity in Chile.  Lastly, we wish to direct our work along the lines laid down in our Statutes and in  the resolutions of the 12th General Assembly rather than devoting our efforts, as  perhaps has tended to be the case up to now, to mounting exhibitions, although we  might do SO occasionally if we consider a specific theme to be appropriate. There  are many public and private bodies that devote themselves to staging exhibitions.  What we are seeking to ensure is that those who organize exhibitions are guided by  the rules that IAA drew up and adopted many years ago.
(9.5) The ‘Recommendation on the, Status of the Artist’, has been extremely useful  to us in recent years. This seems to be the way in which NGOs and Unesco cari work  together. The different NGOs specializing in specific areas are those that cari make  the most authoritative proposals for each branch of the arts, literature, science  and education, SO as to give an accurate picture of concerns and needs in each  particular field. Then each group and each association must work hard in their  respective countries to ensure that the resolutions are put into effect, and it is  essential that the associations, groups and national committees should be empowered  to bring them to the attention of their national parliaments and ensure that  Unesco’s recommendations are actively applied and followed up. There are many  countries beset with problems where it is still difficult to obtain support for art  and artists. We consider that the only basic way to support art is to support  artists, who are the sine qua non of art. Without artists there is no art. For  centuries now, art has been regarded as a commodity whose economic value is  constantly rising. Works of art are used to enhance the prestige of public and  private organizations, but basically for the financial advantage of persons other  than the artist.
(9.6) A wide range of political and economic interests centre on the work of art.  The fact is that the work of the artist generates many economically profitable  activities, for the industries that produce art materials, for art critics and  historians, for the organizers and directors of exhibitions and for a11 the  ministerial bodies, town councils, etc., with a11 their red tape. Al1 this exists  thanks to the effort of the artist who finally is the one who profits least from the  actual work. Al1 this is scattered among a large number of organizations,  individuals, etc.
(9.7) In any case, despite our very difficult economic situation we are as  artists constantly being requested to donate our work to a wide variety of causes -  for the Red Cross or for relief funds for earthquakes and floods. Even museums ask  us to donate works; but if artists are to be requested to make donations, countries  must understand that the difficulties of their financial situation must be solved  first, so,that they may have sufficient income to be able to give financial support  to those activities. Or else, on the contrary, it is we who need to be given  support, which is available a11 too seldom. We cannot emphasize too strongly that  the result cf the artist’s labours - the work of art - except in occasional cases in  which it might be donated, should always be paid for. Only if artists cari defend  their work and the results of their work, cari they be in a position to extend  solidarity towards other workers. Moreover, artists cari develop properly and be  useful to the society in which they live only if they have easy access to training  that enables them to express themselves, if they have a place in which to work, and  in which to exhibit their works, if they have health insurance, a pension, etc.,  like any other person in society. In short, if they cari defend their moral and  economic rights.
(9.8) The work of the artist Will not be truly finished, however, if it is not  seen by other artists and by the public at large. Steps should be taken to ensure  that the works of artists do not remain without life in their studios, but cari be  seen by a large number of people.
(9.9) Turning to the practical question of Unesco and NGOs, it seems to me most  important that there should be more joint programmes among NGOs. For example, the  IAA could perfectly well collaborate, in respect of art, with NGOs concerned with  education, on the question of education and art, or with other NGOs on the whole  question of the protection of the historical and artistic heritage. There could also  be collaboration in planning cultural itineraries for tourists, an activity which 1  consider most important. 1 think that the IAA, NGOs and Unesco are working along the  same lines : our programmes and objectives are often similar or complementary. 1 feel  that it would therefore be easy to work together, since there are many programmes
683    proposed to the General Conference in document 25 C/5 in which we could collaborate.  One of these seems to me most significant, namely collaboration with the Copyright  Division, as copyright is one of the fundamental concerns of artists.
(9.10) We hope that Unesco Will take our difficulties into account. 1 suppose that  a11 NGOs encounter difficulties, but the IAA has gone through a particularly  difficult period in the last few years and we shall only be able to work effectively  if we succeed in establishing mutual trust. And if we are considered as what we  are - i.e. adults with a clear knowledge of the problems of art and artists, and  who, after many years working in each country - are thoroughly tired of a11 the  bureaucratie discussions with each ministry and each institution. Every time an  institution changes, we have to explain everything again from the start, because the  previous institution has not passed on the relevant documents. We hope that this  Will not occur in the international organizations.
(9.11) On behalf of the IAA 1 should like to thank the Director-General, Mr Mayor  Zaragoza, for his understanding of our problems. When he received me he understood  perfectly our past and present situation and gave us his full support that we might  continue IAA's valuable work.
(9.12) 1 should like to add only two observations because, since drafting this  document, a most important document has been submitted to the General Conference -  document 25 C/37 which deals with non-governmental organizations, and 1 should like  to note a few points. The document to which 1 am referring clearly stresses the  importance attached to NGOs by the United Nations and Unesco ever since they were  founded. 1 also see that there is a committee and a working group in which a11  questions relating to NGOs may be discussed and in which we may make our  requirements known and put forward proposals. In short, there is a structure in  which good work may be carried out, work to which the IAA wishes to bring its  collective expertise on questions relating to art and artists, as we represent the  vast majority of professionals in this area, men and women with varying degrees of  fame, but a11 keen to improve their status and that of art in relation to the  specific situation of the societies in which they live and work. The whole of this  document to which 1 refer is an invitation both to NGOs and to Unesco to work more  effectively. 1 think that we cari carry out this work if there is mutual trust  between NGOs and Unesco, in general, and if the staff of Unesco, in particular, are  willing to receive our proposals, which have been decided upon through a democratic  and participatory process by a large number of artists throughout the world. On the  other hand, we would not feel it was an appropriate way to work if a staff member  sitting at his desk were to concoct a proposa1 without taking into account the  decisions taken by a majority of the sectors represented by a11 the NGOs.
(9.13) 1 think that collaboration may be based on the independence of the IAA or  of any NGO and thus may be of use to Unesco and society in general. In other words  it should be very clear that the NGOs are independent organizations and that no one  may dictate to us what action we should take. We are an organization in officia1  relations with Unesco, with the clear task of providing collaboration and support,  engaged in a dialogue directed towards an objective which is relevant both to our  concerns, which are those of artists and to Unesco, as is reiterated in the basic  documents of Unesco and again in the document to which 1 am referring.
(9.14) As 1 said before, we are counting on the full support of the  Director-General, who considers our concerns to correspond to one of the fundamental  missions of Unesco, which gives us confidence that we shall be able to continue our  work, despite a11 the great difficulties facing the new Executive Committee which  was elected in June. 1 hope that these difficulties Will gradually be resolved, a  process which has in fact already begun, for as 1 said, there are many programmes to  which we could make a valuable contribution. Thank you very much.
(10) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Chinese):
1 thank the President of the International Association of Art for bis  speech. 1 now give the floor to MS Vera Freud, permanent representative of the  International Humanist and Ethical Union.
11.1 MS FREUD (International Humanist and Ethical Union):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, on behalf of the International Humanist and Ethical Union, allow me  first to echo the opening words of the Director-General, and affirm with him  that yes, 'Al1 together we cari do it'! TO which we would like to add that what  is required now, to ensure fair sailing to us all, is the return of our  estranged members and adequate financial fuelling.
11.2 Mr President, though the very nature of Unesco does not lend itself to  instant and spectacular results,  all-round,  much has changed in the last two years. The  non-partisan attitude and sensitivity displayed towards universal  concerns and local plights, as well as the strong emphasis on communication, at  a11 levels, has set a new tone of mutual understanding within these walls. An  atmosphere of emotional sobriety,  prevails,  of reason and yet of compassion, increasingly  while the thrust of calm determination compels us a11 to re-evaluate  our priorities and limit our endeavours, in order better to translate our shared  ideals and principles into efficient and concerted positive actions.
11.3 Under these circumstances, Mr President,  Director-General of Unesco,  and considering that the first  the scientifically oriented Sir Julian Huxley, was  the founding president of the International Humanist and Ethical Union, you Will  no doubt understand why, once again, we feel most encouraged in our endeavours,  particularly in the field of human rights.
11.4 Indeed, as YOU may know, humanists have essentially an holistic  approach to human behaviour and believe that neither religions nor ideologies  cari be replacements or substitutes for the need to take responsibility for our  actions. We also believe that a11 that we think, feel, say or do is  interrelated; this being particularly important when it cornes to means and ends.
11.5 Open to free inquiry, we have no ready-made solution or answer to human  problems. Indeed, for humanists, there is no religious or ideological dogma, nor  is there any code of ethics based on transcendental commandments or sanctions.  We consider ethics as derived from the sum total of human experience, feeling  and reason, and therefore look to scientific inquiry, reason and compassion for  the solution of human problems and consequently accept responsibility for  dealing with them.
11.6 And SO, Mr President, in keeping with the plea we made at the last  General Conference in favour of enlightened education to free ourselves of the  fixed and obsolete ideas of the past, we have steadily kept in touch with those  ideas and endeavours that create possibilities for a more humane world.
11.7 TO cite only a few, we have been particularly inspired by the 1986  Seville Statement on Violence, the 1987 Malta International Congress on Human  Rights Teaching, Information and Documentation and, more recently, by the  Yamoussoukro Declaration on Peace in the Minds of Men - to which we would like  to add, in the minds of women, too ! However, it is essentially the  recommendations of the Malta Congress - later endorsed as resolutions by  Unesco - concerning the need to promote and teach non-violent strategies and  alternatives for the peaceful resolution of conflicts at a11 levels of society  that have constituted a most valuable stepping-stone towards several concrete  and promising undertakings.
11.8 Strongly aware that wars cari no longer be won but that lasting peace is  still to be conquered, the general focus has been essentially on the realization  not only that human rights and peace education are inextricably linked, but that  top priority is to be given to the training of 'trainers' and to ensuring that  those in positions of authority, likely to protect or violate human rights, are  well informed of their responsibilities.
11.9 Also, as defence is becoming more and more a multilateral affair,  involving new partnerships between governments, the military and international  citizens' associations, military expertise and readiness are increasingly  expected to be situated in the realm of worldwide peacekeeping and based on  non-violent strateqies. For the way to peace, Mr President, is by peaceful means.
11.10 Consequently, although in my association we are experts neither in the  field of human rights nor in the logistics of non-violent strategies, we  nevertheless chose rather to light a candle than to curse the dark, and  organized, under the sponsorship of Unesco, a seminar on  Military'  'Human Rights and the  which was successfully held from 3  (Netherlands).  to 6 September 1989 in Zeist  More ample information about the twenty-five countries  represented and the topics covered is to be found on page 5 of document 25 C/97.
11.11 Mr President, 1 hardly need to describe the apprehension, the  prejudices and the scepticism that had to be overcome for this historical  encounter to take place. Like any true beginning, it was modest in size, but, as  if in a dream corne true, from East and West, from North and South, they came!  And, leaving their high-ranking and impeccable national uniforms in their  suitcases, proceeded, armed only with their goodwill, to sit down with us and  share our mutual concerns on a basis of equality.
11.12 SO now, also thanks to the generous and knowledgeable participation of  the Senior Programme Specialist of the Unesco Division of Human Rights and  Peace, and the valuable manuals, charts and texts provided by its documentation  centre, we are more than ever confident that human rights and international  humanitarian law are going to find their rightful place in the curricula of  military academies and the general instruction manuals of military recruits.
11.13 TO conclude, let me quote the American anthropologist, Margaret Mead,  who once said: 'Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens  cari change the world. Indeed, it is the only thing that ever has'. Well,  Mr President, a11 of us together at Unesco are no small group and this  non-violent revolution requires no blood to be shed for its promotion, but just  a little of what the French revolutionary, Danton, SO aptly described as 'de  l'audace, encore de l'audace, toujours de l'audace'! - SO as to make it known  that between the zombies and the fanatics there is room for a11 to stand up and  be counted. Thank you, Mr President.
(12) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Chinese):
1 thank the permanent delegate of the International Humanist and Ethical  Union for her speech. 1 now give the floor to MS Renate Peltzer, President of the  International Confederation of Free Trade Unions.
13.1 MS PELTZER (International Confederation of Free Trade Unions):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, this General Conference is finalizing and Will adopt a plan of work  for the six years to corne, based on the challenges of change faced by society  today and also with a vision of developments reaching into the next Century,  the threshold of which is only a step away. In the name of more than 87 million  members of the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU) -  working people a11 over the world - 1 should like to present our best wishes for  the success of your deliberations, and for conclusions addressing our high  aspirations as well as the need for their practical realizability. In recent  times we have been witnessing a positive trend in the climate of international  relations. We therefore feel confident that this General Conference Will be  satisfied with the direction of Unesco's future work to be decided during the  next few weeks. Even more, we hope that those who should benefit from your  efforts Will be satisfied - individual men and women.
13.2 Our Confederation and the associated international trade secretariats -  two of which, like ICFTU, enjoy category A status at Unesco - represent  worldwide a great number of these men and women through their national trade  union centres or their respective teachers' and journalists' unions. We  appreciate that Unesco, from its inception, has attributed great importance to  the involvement of non-governmental organizations in its work, be it with regard  to policy deliberations or to the execution of programmes. This approach should  also be adhered to by the National Commissions for Unesco. At both levels,  however, the importance and potential of trade unions as representative  organizations of the greater part of any population - working people and as such  a social force in society - are not yet adequately reflected.
13.3 Recognition of the role of trade unions and their experience in  effective international solidarity is essential in facing the future  successfully. Without the participation of working people, expressed through  freely organized and independent trade unions, in the shaping of democracy and  peace, social security and economic development as well as cultural and  intellectual freedom, the progress of society and the mastering of the immense  challenges of today are inconceivable. There are extreme fronts in this battle:  rapid technological development on the one side and barren human resources on  the other, or worse - stagnation and famine. The battle cari only be won in  consultation. We fully agree with the Director-General that the priority action  of Unesco should be directed at 'the reduction and gradua1 elimination of the  unacceptable gap between the prosperity of a minority of the human race and the  poverty which is the common lot of the majority'.
13.4 We Will be happy if the views we submitted for consideration on the  preparation of the Draft Medium-Term Plan prove to have been helpful and are  reflected in the final decisions. Our Confederation, at its last World Congress  a year and a half ago, discussed the global challenges faced by the trade union  movement - challenges which this Unesco General Conference is addressing within.
20  its own particular mandate. 1 should like to put on record here that we  particularly appreciated the presence and contribution of the Director-General's  representative at the ICFTU Congress.
13.5 ICFTU believes that one of the key elements in development co-operation  is a major increase in international support for training and education  programmes in developing countries, concentrating on raising the general level  of education of working people, and particularly of unemployed and underemployed  workers and their children in both rural areas and the margins of the urban  economy. Such programmes should also take account of the need to counteract a11  discrimination. The Confederation also calls on the industrialized countries to  work out, in full consultation with trade unions, a policy for the elimination  of unemployment through internationally concerted measures for vigorous  non-inflationary growth, such as the formation of labour market policy and  services to assist those groups of workers, especially women and Young people  who have been hardest hit by unemployment, by providing vocational counselling  and training and retraining opportunities.
13.6 TO single out a few areas of Unesco's field of competence, which is, of  course, of concern to ICFTU in its entirety, we note with satisfaction that  retraining and continuing education Will be stressed and conducted in close  co-operation with IL0 during the period of the Draft Medium-Term Plan. The  Confederation and our affiliated organizations at the national level pledge our  co-operation and look forward to involvement as major and natural partners. On a  less positive note, unfortunately, we have to remark that the Draft Convention  on Technical and Vocational Education, which is before this Conference for  adoption, does not bear the mark of a trade union pen. The little occasion we  had to be consulted is in no way reflected either in the Draft Convention or the  attached report of the committee of governmental experts.
13.7 Basic education and literacy training are of no less importance to  trade unions and their membership, and we urge governments to shoulder their  responsibility to provide decent, modern and universally available public  services, as enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, for primary  as well as adult education. The ability to read and Write is nOt an end in  itself. It is a fundamental tool for a better working, social and cultural  life - a tool in the exercise and defence of human and trade union rights and a  tool for economic and social development. It is a prerequisite for people's  participation and democracy. ICFTU and its affiliates Will actively support  International Literacy Year in order to boost Unesco's ongoing effort to  eradicate illiteracy as part and parce1 of educational, economic and social  policy. Youth and women should be among the priority target groups, especially  in the rural and informa1 sectors.
13.8 At this point, Mr President, let me state that ICFTU, like Unesco,  follows a strategy for improving the status of women by having specific  activities for this purpose, but also and primarily by including the female  dimension in a11 our organization's programmes. We welcome the fact that the  present Draft Medium-Term Plan confirms and continues the high priority given to  these issues.
13.9 Literacy is also fundamental to communication and to free access to  information and its dissemination, which in turn enhance the educated and  informed emancipation of women and men. At the centre of communication are  professional journalists, who far too often experience harassment in the  exercise of their work. ICFTU and the International Federation of Journalists  welcome the fact that the Draft Medium-Term Plan addresses the issue of  'Communication in the service of humanity' for the promotion of freedom of  expression and of the practice of free journalism in a level-headed manner.  Despite efforts and goodwill, the inequalities of communication in the world  continue to hamper mutual understanding and knowledge. A programme of practical  work should contribute to the bridging of this gap; therefore the International  Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC) must be strengthened.
13.10 In conclusion, Mr President, we feel confident that the debates at this  twenty-fifth session of the General Conference Will lead to constructive  decisions and to their successful implementation. Thank you, Mr President.
(14) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Chinese):
1 thanlc the President of the International Confederation of Free Trade  Unions for her speech. 1 now give the floor to MS Huguette Redegeld, Vice-President  of the International Movement ATD Fourth World.  --.-. . ..-
15.1 Mme REDEGELD (Mouvement international ATD Quart Monde) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Mes-  sieurs les délégués, me permettriez-vous de nous remettre un court instant en  présence du père Joseph Wresinski, fondateur du Mouvement international ATD Quart  Monde ? Du père Joseph qui, dans cette Maison de l'Unesco, a tant plaidé pour une  juste place des plus pauvres dans tous les programmes destinés à promouvoir  l'éducation, la science et la culture dans le monde. Pour le père Joseph, il  était inacceptable que les plus pauvres, à cause de leur misère, ne puissent  bénéficier de ce droit essentiel qu'est le plein accès à la culture ; il n'a  cessé de rappeler que l'accès à la culture ne devait pas se situer au bout du  développement mais qu'il devait en être, dès le départ, partie intégrante car il  répond à un besoin de l'homme pour révéler le meilleur de lui-même et contribuer  concrètement à la vie et à l'avenir de la communauté humaine.
15.2 Le père Joseph, membre du Conseil économique et social français, obtint  que ce Conseil vote, en février 1987, 1'Avis "Grande pauvreté et précarité éco-  nomique et sociale", Avis qui reconnaît publiquement la grande pauvreté comme une  violation de l'ensemble des droits de l'homme. Le rapport Wresinski du Conseil  économique et social devint ainsi une innovation dans le monde, fondant la  reconnaissance publique que les droits civils et politiques et les droits écono-  miques, sociaux et culturels ne peuvent être envisagés séparément.
15.3 Le père Joseph démontra, et le Conseil économique et social le confirma,  ce que nous apprend l'expérience de vie des plus pauvres. A savoir que, privés  de travail, de ressources, de logement, d'éducation scolaire, privés des moyens  de participer à la culture et de s'intégrer dans la communauté nationale et  internationale, les hommes et les populations ne peuvent rien faire de leurs  éventuelles libertés de participer à la vie sociale, associative et politique.  De même que, sans ces libertés, ils sont dans l'impossibilité d'obtenir le droit  à la vie, au travail, à l'école, à une expression, à une participation culturelle  et spirituelle.
15.4 Le 3 mars dernier, la Commission des droits de l'homme de 1'ONU rendait  hommage au père Joseph Wresinski, rappelé à Dieu en 1988, en adoptant une réso-  lution dont il était l'inspirateur - une résolution intitulée "Droits de l'homme  et extrême pauvreté" et adoptée par consensus par les représentants des gouver-  nements. Cette résolution, constatant l'extension de l'extrême pauvreté dans le  monde, souligne que l'adoption de mesures efficaces pour promouvoir la jouissance  de tous les droits de l'homme passe par une meilleure connaissance des causes de  cette extrême pauvreté.
15.5 Le 25 avril dernier, le Conseil d'administration de l'Unicef suivit cet  exemple en adoptant, lui aussi par consensus, une résolution intitulée "Atteindre  les plus pauvres". Cette résolution exprime la préoccupation qu'un pourcentage  important de la population mondiale, vivant dans des conditions d'extrême pau-  vreté, n'a pas encore été atteint par les programmes en faveur des pauvres ;  cette résolution considère que seule une connaissance plus approfondie de leur  situation, ainsi que des conditions préalables nécessaires à leur participation,  permettrait d'atteindre plus facilement les groupes en question.
15.6 Monsieur le Président, les Etats membres représentés en ces murs de
1'Unesco ont ainsi reconnu, à la Commission des droits de l'homme et à l'Unicef,  que les enfants, familles et populations les plus pauvres demeurent pratiquement  exclus de tous les programmes intergouvernementaux pour le développement et pour  les droits de l'homme. Et qu'ils en demeurent exclus parce qu'ils sont mal connus  et parce qu'ils sont privés des moyens de se faire mieux connaître.
15.7 Aujourd'hui, ces mêmes Etats membres réunis à 1'Unesco pourraient tra-  duire cette prise de conscience en action concrète. Dans le Projet de plan à  moyen terme, les champs majeurs de programme comme les projets mobilisateurs  accordent une place importante aux connaissances à acquérir pour répondre aux  besoins et aux aspirations des groupes concernés, particulièrement des groupes  défavorisés. Mais de quelles connaissances s'agira-t-il ? Qui en seront les par-  tenaires ? Auprès de qui et dans quelles conditions seront-elles recueillies ?  Et surtout, fonderont-elles le partenariat des plus pauvres ?
15.8 Ces questions, Monsieur le Président, viennent du terrain, elles  viennent d'une vie partagée et d'actions menées dans la durée avec des popula-  tions très démunies dans toutes les régions du monde. Le Mouvement international  ATD Quart Monde, à la suite de son fondateur, demande à 1'Unesco de s'engager à  y répondre. Les champs majeurs de programme (notamment les champs 1, III, VI et  VII) ainsi que les projets mobilisateurs devraient, dans des actions concrètes,  consolider le droit des plus pauvres non seulement à être mieux connus mais aussi  à participer, par un partenariat authentique, aux connaissances nécessaires pour  mettre fin à leur exclusion. Au niveau des plus dévavorisés, 1'Unesco devrait
20  mener des expériences en vue d'acquérir une meilleure connaissance sur le ter-  rain, en partenariat avec eux, et préciser ainsi les conditions dans lesquelles  des recherches-actions peuvent se réaliser dans une collaboration d'égal à égal.
15.9 Pour le Mouvement international ATD Quart Monde,  à moyen terme se situe vraiment là.  un des enjeux du Plan  coïncidera avec  La première année de mise en oeuvre du Plan  l'Année internationale de l'alphabétisation * elle concernera  l'éducation de base, la formation, la communication, les scien;es et la techno-  logie, les sciences sociales et humaines,  ment et les droits de l'homme.  le développement humain, l'environne-  sera un élément moteur.  La Décennie mondiale du développement Culturel en  Des actions et des recherches d'envergure vont être  décidées puis vont être menées, avec des incidences très concrètes dans la vie  de tous, et particulièrement des plus pauvres.
15.10 Le père Joseph ne cessait de nous dire :  partenaires ?-  "Qui choisissons-nous comme  Monsieur le Président, le Mouvement international ATD Quart Monde  exprime sa confiance que 1'Unesco continuera à faire retentir cette parole dans  la communauté internationale, en la prenant comme guide de ses propres pro-  grammes. Je vous remercie.
(16.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Chinese):
1 thank the delegate of the International Movement ATD Fourth World for her  speech.
(16.2) Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, before the meeting is suspended, 1  wish to ask the Secretary if there are any announcements. There are none. Your  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, 1 would like to remind you, before the  suspension, that the meeting will be reconvened at 3 p.m. to the minute. First of  all, the results of the first vote we took this morning Will be read out, and then  we will proceed with the second vote. It is hoped that a third vote Will be  unnecessary. 1 invite you to be punctual as we need a quorum in order to vote. 1 am  very sorry at having to ask you to attend the meeting on a Saturday. The meeting is  now suspended and Will be reconvened at 3 o'clock this afternoon.  (La séance est suspendue à 12 h.10 ; elle est reprise à 15 heures)  (M. Anwar Ibrahim, Malaisie, reprend la présidence)  ELECTION DE MEMBRES DU CONSEIL EXECUTIF (suite)  ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD (continued)  ELECCION DE MIEMBROS DEL CONSEJO EJECUTIVO (continuation)  BbIBOPbI=IJIEHOBHCHOIU-IMTE.'IbHOFOCOBETA (HPOflOJDKEHHE)  tek) ui+ïll &I p FLL;yi uUI -  $@&fin%Bt%)
17.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is called to order. 1 have pleasure  in reading out the results of the vote in the election of members of the  Executive Board.
17.2 Group 1, in which there are four seats to be filled. Number of Member  States entitled to vote at the present session: 157; absent: 1; abstentions:  none; invalid ballot papers: 1; number of votes recorded: 155; number of votes  constituting the majority required to be elected: 78; names of the candidates  and number of votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number  of votes: MS Marie Bernard Meunier (Canada): 140; Mr Kurt Müller (Federal  Republic of Germany): 114; Mr Giacomo Ivancich Biaggini (Italy): 103; MS Ingrid  Eide (Norway): 101; Mr Murat Dikmen (Turkey): 79; Mr Robert Krieps  (Luxembourg): 65.
17.3 MS Marie Bernard Meunier (Canada), Mr Kurt Müller (Federal Republic of  Germany), Mr Giacomo Ivancich Biaggini (Italy) and MS Ingrid Eide (Norway)  having obtained the majority required, 1 declare them elected.  (Applause)
17.4 Grouo II, in which there are two seats to be filled. Number of Member  States entitled to vote at the present session: 157; absent: 1; abstentions: 2;  invalid ballot papers: none; number of votes recorded: 154; number of votes  constituting the majority required to be elected: 78; names of the candidates  and number of votes*secured by each of them, in descending order of the number  of votes: Mr Punisa A. Pavlovic (Yugoslavia): 151; Mr Anatoly Lobanok  (Byelorussian SSR): 149.
17.5 Mr PuniSa A. Pavlovig (Yugoslavia) and Mr Anatoly Lobanok (Byelorussian  SSR) having obtained the majority required, 1 declare them elected.  (Applause)
17.6 Group III, in which there are six seats to be filled. Number of Member  States entitled to vote at the present session: 157; absent: 1; abstentions:  none; invalid ballot papers: 2; number of votes recorded: 154; number of votes  constituting the majority required to be elected: 78; names of the candidates  and number of votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number  of votes: Mr Manuel Bartlett Diaz (Mexico): 121; Mr Jorge Cayetano Zain Asis  (Argentina): 117; Mr Carlos Tunnermann Bernheim (Nicaragua): 95; Mr Alfredo  Traversoni (Uruguay): 90; Ms Ana Isabel Prera Flores (Guatemala): 89; Mr Alvaro  Umaiïa Quesada (Costa Rica): 71; Mr Gonzalo Abad Grijalva (Ecuador): 68;  Mr Franklin A.M. Baron (Dominica): 54; Mr Kesler Clermont (Haiti): 49; Mr Reuben  H. Harris (Antigua and Barbuda): 49; Mr Juan Bosco Berna1 Yanis (Panama): 44.
17.7  (Argentin:;  Manuel Bartlett Diaz (Mexico), Mr Jorge Cayetano Zain Asis  Mr Carlos Tunnermann Bernheim (Nicaragua), Mr Alfredo Traversoni  (Uruguay) and MS Ana Isabel Prera Flores (Guatemala) having obtained the  majority required, I declare them elected.  (Applause)
17.8 There thus remains one seat to be filled in Group III, and we shall  have a second vote.
17.9 Group IV, in which there are four seats to be filled. Number of  Member States entitled to vote at the present session: 157; absent: 1;  abstentions: none; invalid ballot papers: none; number of votes recorded: 156;  number of votes constituting the majority required to be elected: 79; names of  the candidates and number of votes secured by each of them, in descending order  of the number of votes: Mr Natarajan Krishnan (India): 141; Mr Teng Teng  (China): 123; Mr Adul Wichiencharoen (Thailand): 119; Mr Jerry Emaus Tetaga  (Papua New Guinea): 90; Mr Nguyen Van Dao (Viet Nam): 71; Mr Ali Shariatmadari  (Islamic Republic of Iran): 38.
17.10 Natarajan Krishnan (India)  Wichiencha:oen (Thailand) and Mr Jerry Emau?  Teng Teng (China), Mr Adul  Tetaga (Papua New Guinea) having  obtained the majority required, 1 declare them elected.  (Applause)
17.11 Group V(a), in which there are seven seats to be filled. Number of  Member States entitled to vote at the present session: 157; absent: 1;  abstentions: 3; invalid ballot papers: 5; number of votes recorded: 148; number  of votes constituting the majority required to be elected: 75; names of the  candidates and number of votes secured by each of them, in descending order of  the number of votes: Mr Immanuel K. Bavu (United Republic of Tanzania): 114;  Mr André Corsino Tolentino (Cape Verde): 109; Mr Oumarou Clément Ouedraogo  (Burkina Faso): 106;  (Chad): 99;  Mr ZaïnMay:g;bidine Sanoussi (Guinea): 104; Mr Tom Erdimi  Mr Nicholas (Burundi): 91; Mr George W.L. Thomas  (Gambia): 82; MS Thérèse Eppie Striggner Scott (Ghana): 73; Mr Guy Rajaonson  (Madagascar): 64; Mr Pierre Foulani (Niger): 52; Mr William Conton (Sierra  Leone): 45; MS Dorothy Njeuma (Cameroon): 44.
17.12 Mr Immanuel K. Bavu (United Republic of Tanzania), Mr André Corsino  Tolentino (Cape Verde), Mr Oumarou Clément Ouedraogo (Burkina Faso), Mr Zaïnoul  Abidine Sanoussi (Guinea), Mr Tom Erdimi (Chad), Mr Nicholas Mayugi (Burundi)  and Mr George W.L. Thomas (Gambia) having obtained the majority required, 1  declare them elected.  (Applause)
17.13 Group V(b), in which there are three seats to be filled. Number of  Member States entitled to vote at the present session: 157; absent: 1;  abstentions: 1; invalid ballot papers: none; number of votes recorded: 155;  number of votes constituting the majority required to be elected: 78; names of  the candidates and number of votes secured by each of them in descending order  of the number of votes: Mr Ahmed Fathi Sorour (Egypt): 151; Mr Ahmed Saleh  Sayyad (Yemen): 143; Mr Aziz Al-Hajj Ali Haidar (Iraq): 142.
17.14 Mr Ahmed Fathi Sorour (Ewr?t) t Mr Ahmed Saleh Sayyad (Yemen) and  Mr Aziz Al-Hajj Ali Haidar (Iraq) having obtained the majority required, 1  declare them elected.  (Applause)
17.15 1 congratulate those elected, and now we shall proceed to the second  vote concerning Group III. The delegate of Kuwait has asked for the floor.
(18) Mr AL-SALEM (Kuwait) (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank you, Mr President, but you read out the results too fast. 1 would  appreciate it if you would read them out again slowly SO that we cari note them down,  or at least repeat the number of votes obtained by the successful candidates. Thank  you, Mr President.
19. The PRESIDENT:  With your permission we Will proceed with the second vote concerning  Group III, after which 1 Will again read out the names of those elected with the  number of votes obtained. 1 give the floor to the Secretary of the General  Conference.
20. Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci,  sieurs,  Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Mes-  le deuxième tour de scrutin auquel il est nécessaire de procéder pour  pourvoir au siège qui n'est pas encore pourvu dans le groupe électoral III peut  avoir lieu dans quelques minutes. Voici comment nous  deuxième tour.  allons procéder pour le  Le Secrétariat distribuera aux délégations une enveloppe avec un  bulletin de vote. Ce bulletin porte les noms des deux candidats encore en lice  pour le groupe électoral III. Les votants barreront le nom du candidat pour  lequel ils ne souhaitent pas voter. Seront considérés comme des abstentions les  bulletins sur lesquels les deux noms auront été barrés. Sera considéré comme nul  tout bulletin sur lequel il restera plus de noms qu'il n'y a de siège à pourvoir.  Les délégations seront appelées successivement par le Secrétaire dans l'ordre  alphabétique français des Etats membres,  nom a été tiré au sort,  en commençant par la Bulgarie dont le  placés  et elles déposeront comme tout à l'heure leurs bulletins,  sous une seule enveloppe, dans l'urne se trouvant devant la tribune.  Merci, Monsieur le Président.
21.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Secretary. We Will now proceed. In conformity with Rule 2  of the Rules for the conduct of elections by secret ballot, 1 now have the  pleasure once again to request MS Natalia Martin Leyes of Colombia, Mr Yvan  Boyadjiev of Bulgaria, Mr Sean Harkin of Ireland and Mr Mohammed Hamad Omran of  the United Arab Emirates kindly to corne up and act as tellers. 1 invite them to  take seats by the ballot box.  (The four tellers took their places beside the ballot box)
21.2 Ladies and gentlemen, we have two candidates and we Will now proceed to  vote. First, ballot papers Will be distributed.  (The ballot papers were distributed)
21.3 The Secretary Will now cal1 delegations in the French alphabetical  order of the names of Member States, beginning with Bulgaria. Each delegation  is invited to corne and deposit its envelope in the ballot box when its country's  name is called.  (The vote was taken by roll call)
21.4 We have now completed the first call. Jordan, Lesotho, Monaco, Syrian  Arab Republic, Dominican Republic and Rwanda did not respond. 1 shall ask the  Secretary to cal1 their names again. 1 note that they are absent.
21.5 The PRESIDENT:  The voting is now closed. In accordance with the provisions of  Rule 10bis of the Rules for the conduct of elections by secret ballot, the votes  Will be counted in another room, Room V, under the strict supervision of a  Vice-President. 1 hereby invite Ambassador Kuroda from Japan to supervise the  counting of the votes and 1 hand him the key of the ballot box.
21.6 As requested, 1 shall now read out once again the names of those  elected to the Board with the number of votes obtained.  (The President read out the list of members elected)  (La séance est suspendue à 16 h.15; elle est reprise à 16 h.45)
21.7 Ladies and gentlemen, here is the result of the vote concerning  Grouo III, in which one seat remains to be filled. Number of Member States  entitled to vote at the present session: 157; absent: 6; abstentions: 6; invalid  ballot papers: 1; number of votes recorded: 144; number of votes constituting  the majority required to be elected: 73; names of the candidates and number of  votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes:  Mr Alvaro Umafia Quesada (Costa Rica): 92; Mr Gonzalo Abad Grijalva (Ecuador): 52.
21.8 Mr Alvaro Umafia Quesada (Costa Rica) having obtained the majority  required, 1 declare him elected, and 1 congratulate him.  (Applause)
21.9 Now that the election is over, I would like to congratulate everybody  concerned. TO YOU I Ambassador Kuroda, may 1, on behalf of the General  Conference, extend my gratitude for the precise and strict manner in which you  supervised the counting of the votes. Thank you very much. 1 also wish to thank  the tellers, who carried out their task most diligently.
2i.10 In accordance with a decisi.on taken by the Executive Board at its
132nd session, 1 appeal to a11 concerned to start consultations regarding the  election of the officers of the Executive Board. This could take place before  the end of the General Conference. The practice in the past was to convene the  Executive Board immediately following the General Conference. 1 intend to  suggest to the General Committee the possibility of having the Board meet on the  last day of the General Conference, or thereabouts, in order to save the extra  day. It is just a suggestion. The Secretary of the Conference is worried about  the preparations, but 1 think it cari be done. 1 Will formally propose this to  the General Committee and if it approves, 1 Will announce the decision  accordingly and the Board Will meet on 15 or 16 November. Forma1 notification  Will be sent to a11 Board members. Incidentally, 1 did not discuss this matter  with the Secretariat, but, as President of the General Conference, 1 bave been  urged to play a catalytic role in facilitating the election of officers of the  Executive Board. SO consultations Will take place with a view to finding a  consensus as soon as possible, SO that the new Board cari quickly elect its  Chairman, Vice-Chairmen and other officers, and decide on the date of the  subsequent session.
21.11 Thank you, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, you have been extremely  helpful to me in facilitating the elections. The meeting is now adjourned. 1  wish you a pleasant weekend.  La séance est levée à 16 h.50 %CtXaHkie 3aKpbIBXTCX B 16.50  The meeting rose at 4.50 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 16.50 &JlJui,o.-LuI~-L+IcdJ "  Qüt~lrrdsos)~~